NAGPUR: The   (CBSE) sent out an advisory to all schools after reports came in that its earlier circular on sixth subject for Std X was misinterpreted by schools, leading to a major confusion. Though   does not mention it in the advisory, TOI has learnt that the confusion among schools ranged from ‘sixth subject becoming mandatory’ to ‘changes being made in the language scheme’. 

 A clearly peeved board shot off an advisory to schools and told them curtly to ‘Disseminate only correct and factual information to the students and parents’. CBSE’s circulars on January 31 and March 9 clearly stated that the sixth subject in Std X was mandatory only for those schools who have enrolled under the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) and gave some specific directions on how total marks will be calculated in the board exam. 
 
 The board’s joint secretary Manoj Srivastava wrote ‘There is no change in the   offered by CBSE. Any misinformation or incorrect interpretation on the part of the school would result in violation of directions/provisions of the CBSE bye-laws which may consequentially lead to action as deemed fit under the rules’. 
 
 Srivastava also advised principals to ‘Familiarize themselves with the content of circulars in its entirety and take action as per the spirit of the circular/directions/curriculum/document/bye-laws’. 
 
 TOI had reported last week about this and clearly stated that the sixth subject was not mandatory for all. CBSE’s circular was basically detailing the remodelled assessment scheme for schools offering vocational subject as compulsory sixth subject under NSQF. What the board simply said was that for vocational subjects practical exams will carry 50 marks and will be conducted by the schools themselves. It also clarified that for theory exam students have to score minimum 33% marks in each subject they appear. If any Std X student fails in any one of the three elective subjects (i.e. science, math and social science), then it will be replaced by the vocational subject (offered as a 6th additional subject) and the result of Std X board exam will be computed accordingly.
 
 The board has now advised parents/students to contact them directly in case of any confusion. Srivastava wrote that if there is any misunderstanding then they may email to CBSE at helpline.cbse@gmail.com.
 
