VADODARA: Staffers of the   (VMC) barring its top brass went on a flash strike on Wednesday afternoon after an executive engineer was assaulted by a councillor of the ruling BJP. 

 Argument between councillor Ajit   and executive engineer   at the ward two office took a serious turn with the former abusing the officer and even trying to slap him. 
 
 While Vasava could not be reached, Vadodara Mahanagar Seva Sadan Engineers Association (VMSSEA) president D R Devmurari said that Dadhich was present at the ward office with his supporters. "Vasava ducked and escaped the slap. The councillor's supporters had also come there and tried to rough up Vasava, but could not do so as staffers intervened in time," said Devmurari.
 
 The staffers have decided to continue with their stir even on Thursday. Devmurari said that the officials would gather at the   on Thursday morning and hold demonstrations. "We want the VMC to decide a policy regarding the course of action to adopt in such cases," he added.
 
 Dadhich, at the other end, denied the charges and claimed that it was Vasava who had tried to slap him. "I had been seeking drainage and water connections for some settlements in my area that have illegal connections. The residents have even paid money for these but there is no progress in the work. If it does not happen now, the labourers will go on a long Holi holiday and then monsoon will follow. But Vasava was delaying the work," he said.
 
 The councillor added that he had called Vasava on Wednesday and went to meet him at the ward office. "He was leaving when I reached there and we spoke outside the office. When I pointed out that new connections were being given to real estate sites while others were being ignored, he got agitated and tried to slap me. The incident would be captured on the CCTV camera. I did not assault him and just held his hand and pushed it aside when he tried to slap me," said Dadhich.
 
 VMC commissioner Dr Vinod Rao said that he had sought a report on the incident. "We will proceed further based on it. We strongly object to any inappropriate behaviour with officials. We will give necessary support to the official in this case," said Rao.
 
 
