NEW DELHI: True to his word, the sacked minister of  ,  , turned up at Rajghat on Sunday noon to share the "explosive details" with people that he claimed he had revealed to chief minister   on the tanker scam the day before. But when he finally spoke - after praying at   - it was much more than anyone had bargained for. Launching a direct attack on Kejriwal, he said he had witnessed the CM accepting Rs 2 crore in cash from his minister, Satyendra Jain, details of which he had submitted to the lieutenant-governor, Anil Baijal, minutes before.

 Mishra, who had been sacked by Kejriwal the previous day - the official reason being mismanagement in water supply but largely perceived as punishment for allegedly hobnobbing with Kumar Vishwas to remove Kejriwal as convener of the party - added that when confronted by him on the issue, the CM said "such things happen in politics". Mishra added that Jain had told him that he had "settled land deals worth Rs 50 crore for Kejriwal's relative". When asked about this, he alleged, Kejriwal denied any such thing.
 
 Mishra's allegation led to turmoil in the capital's political landscape. BJP was quick to go for the jugular. Delhi unit chief Manoj Tiwari demanded Kejriwal's immediate resignation, and at a meeting with the LG in the evening, asked him to recommend dismissal of the government if the CM did not step down. The Congress, too, asked Kejriwal to quit and announced a five-day referendum on the issue of right to recall to put pressure on the government.
 
 Kerjiwal didn't react to the allegations even as senior AAP functionaries kept meeting him through the day. It was deputy CM Manish Sisodia who rebutted Mishra's allegations, saying they were not worth even responding to. "Last evening, I called Kapil Mishra and told him that the CM has decided to undertake a cabinet reshuffle. I told him the reasons for removing him. I told him that a lot of MLAs have come complaining about the water situation," Sisodia said.
 
 And it was Kumar Vishwas, who jumped to Kejriwal's defence saying that "even an enemy will not make an allegation of corruption against Kejriwal. I have known him for 12 years and can say that even in my dream I cannot imagine Kejriwal as corrupt." It was Vishwas who had been, in the past few days, hitting out at the government's functioning, its stand on EVMs and its alleged protection of the corrupt. He visited Kejriwal's residence twice during the day.
 
 Even Kejriwal's estranged colleague, Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan, said he might believe the charges of greed for power, arrogance and authoritarianism against Kejriwal but the charge of taking bribe needed "solid evidence".
 
 Meanwhile, Mishra - who has tweeted that he will be going to ACB on Monday and claimed that Jain will soon be jailed - said he won't quit the party and fight from within to cleanse the system. "I have come to Gandhi's Samadhi for inspiration and strength; won't give up until the corrupt are sent to jail." He added: "I have been involved with the movement for justice for Jessica Lal, Nirbhaya gangrape case and India Against Corruption. The corrupt should go away. I will never leave this party that was started as a movement for clean politics."
 
 Earlier, instead of the expose on the water tanker scam that he had promised, Mishra tantalised people with the cryptic tweet: "I have witnessed HIM taking illegal cash…have shared all details with Lt. Gov. chup rehna asambhav tha. Kursi kya pran bhi jayen toh jayen." That led to a lot of speculation before he dropped the bomb.
 
 The ex-minister attacked Jain over CBI cases, money laundering charges and the controversy over induction of his daughter into an important health committee.
 
 "We knew about these allegations but kept quiet all this while due to complete faith in Arvind Kejriwal. But when I saw Kejriwal taking Rs 2 crore from Jain, I had to come out. I have handed over the details to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal," Mishra said, adding he is also ready to make a statement before the CBI and Anti-Corruption Bureau.
 
 The AAP MLA said he was sacked after he confronted Kejriwal over the issue of corruption. Dismissing the official reason of mismanagement of water supply, he said both Kejriwal and Sisodia had praised his work in the run-up to the municipal corporation elections. "Were they lying then or are they lying now," he asked.
 
 Mishra, who was accompanied by his wife and some supporters, dodged media queries on timing of his expose or the motive involved. While he did not share any evidence with the media, he claimed he had given the evidence to the LG. When TOI checked with the LG's office, sources said a meeting did happen but no one was aware of any documents having been submitted. Meanwhile, Vishwas clarified that the matter will be taken up at the next meeting of the political affairs committee of the party where the course of action on Kapil Mishra will be decided.
 
 "I have also asked Satyendar Jain to come with documents and make his position clear before the PAC. I have asked him to clear his position before the party. He must say whether he is being framed or some mistake has been made. We are ready for any kind of probe, whosoever carries it out, CBI or ED. We are even ready to go to court," said Vishwas.
 
