Mangaluru: As planned, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) on Monday commenced rationing of water that is being supplied to Mangaluru city. The move is aimed at conserving this natural resource through the summer.

 Starting 6am on Monday, the civic body stopped the water supply to all the 60-wards for the next 36-hours after which water will be supplied equitably for 48-hours before stopping it for next 36-hours. This rationing will continue till such time the civic body feels the water supply position is comfortable.
 
 The district administration on Sunday directed the release of water from the AMR Power Project Dam at Shamboor to prop the fast depleting water level at Thumbe vented dam, city’s main drinking water source. As on Monday, the water level at Thumbe stood at 5 metres, sources in the engineering section of MCC said. The water level at AMR Power Project Dam likewise dipped to 5.8 metres and will be used as a balancing reservoir.
 
 The sources said that the district administration has also ordered the release of water stored at Disha Power Project at Hosamath, which is located upstream of Shamboor. This water has reached Nekkilady weir at Uppinangady which feeds Puttur town. Overflow of water from this weir in turn will prop up the water level at Shamboor, the sources said, adding that the civic body is also banking on its quota of summer showers that the district usually gets in April to help tide over this summer.
 
 In addition, the administration has also stopped the irrigation department from lifting water from its lift irrigation project at Panemangaluru for irrigation purpose. With MCF already in the midst of its annual maintenance shutdown, the civic body will get additional 2 MGD that state’s lone fertilizer plant would have otherwise used. MCF could advance its shutdown as it had already met its target of urea production for the current fiscal, as MCF stated in a filing before SEBI.
 
 The move by the administration to ration water for other major stakeholders – MRPL and Manglore SEZ- too has been accepted sportingly by the state’s only refiner. “We are getting 10.5MGD against 15 MGD for our operations and this is good enough. We have also optimized our water usage and are asking MSEZ to give us maximum treated sewage,” M Venkatesh, director (refinery) said. With rationing in place for all and situation better than last year, there are no major worries, he added
 
 
