NAGPUR: All four of them have different goals and their inspirations are varied. They have titled their group exhibition, to be showcased at   in New Delhi next week, as Common Threads. Artists Lalit Vikamshi, Milli Vikamshi,   Vikamshi and   held a preview of this exhibition at Alag Angle Community Art Centre, Hazaripahad, on Saturday evening. 

 Aditi, who has learnt under the Vikamshis at CISFA, will be exhibiting her artworks outside the city for the first time and was visibly excited and nervous. Relating nature’s rhythm to women, she has painted a series of black and white paintings in mixed media showcasing women in different moods — an athlete, a fairy on a moon, a mermaid and so on. “Black and white relate to positivity and negativity. And women show flexibility and rhythmic bodies,” she said.
 
 Tanul, who has been making figurative paintings for a long time, chose to showcase abstract art for the exhibition. His paintings show bold combination of colours as if revealing something in the distance. “I’ve tried to depict my routine life, how my aim calls to me. It’s a bit hazy, but there’s knowledge that the clouds will clear and the power is calling me,” he said.
 
 Milli’s paintings show influences of all her previous artworks. She has painted ‘common heroes’ such as a ragpicker, a streetside jewellery seller, a chai wala and has a story behind all the paintings, made using mixed media — collage, patches, and so on. “Earlier I used to paint myself. Then I focused on subjects such as flowers, fantasy and fashion. I’ve been fascinated by the interesting stories these everyday heroes have to tell us and this is an effort to appreciate them,” she said.
 
 Lalit will be exhibiting sculptures he has made combining plants, wood and music as part of the show. His sculptures, like his paintings which show uniform circles over human bodies as one of the styles, also has circles in the wood enclosure inside which the plant is kept.
 
  “I’ve worked a lot on circles and land art. I’ve used these to make these sculptures which emit meditative sounds through the medium of a chip and am exhibiting my work after a gap of three years,” he adds.
 
 The Vikamshis last showcased together 10 years ago and are back to awe the audience with their perspectives.
 
 
