CHENNAI: It may be striving to emerge a hero in the   saga, but whatever the denouement, the state will be a villain.

 Having   as the basis for admissions will affect state board students as only one in 20 of them who cleared the examination will get a seat in the state-run colleges. This may have political consequences and opposition parties may hound the government for not doing enough to secure the state’s rights.
 
 The possibility of an ordinance for exemption has rattled a large number of students. At least 1,000 state board students who had cleared Class XII exams in 2016 spent one year preparing for NEET. Many of them have scored enough to get a seat in government colleges if admission is based on NEET. But if admissions are based on Class XII marks, they will be in a quandary not only because they have invested one year for NEET, but also because they have not applied for admissions elsewhere.
 
 A week ago, Harini P, who had taken a year’s break for NEET, started an online petition in favour of NEET. The petition has got more than 1,000 signatures. Harini hoped that   would be asked to hold the state’s medical admissions on NEET. “… medical seat deserving student (should) get the seat no matter how the system, syllabus and the qualifying exam changes. Crossing the qualifying marks in NEET means one can be eligible for the state counselling,” she said.
 
 Her sentiments were shared by students from the CBSE and other boards. “It is unfair to change the goalpost after the game. My son spent time preparing for NEET after the   made it mandatory. If is not implemented, all his efforts will go waste. There are hundreds of students like him,” said S Subramanian whose son has scored more than 400 in NEET.
 
 Educationalists say the government will be panned for whatever it does. “If it gets an exemption, a large group of students, including those from state board, with high NEET scores will be affected. If it doesn’t the opposition and state board students will criticise the government for not doing enough,” said Dr K Ananda Kannan, former vice-chancellor of TN Dr MGR Medical University.
 
 
