The final battle is over. The   is won. The grand finale of 'Mirchi 95 Suno Aur Mercedes Jeeto' Contest saw fifteen Hyderabadis battle each other in a very exciting and nail-biting Bollywood quiz. And the shining Mercedes promised for the winner was not the only reason, a chance to meet and pose with superstar  , who was supposed to hold the final round with the top two participants before giving away the car was in their mind too.
Meena Kapil, the winner of the contest admitted, 'It was such a pleasure to meet Raashi. She is so pretty, with such an amazing personality. I was tongue-tied, too overwhelmed to meet her in person. But then I had to win the contest for my son and my husband who were sure of my win since the beginning. Actually my husband was the one who persuaded me into taking part in the contest. So I had to shake off my starstruckedness and gear up for the final round.'
 Raashi Khanna who called in Hyderabad's Mirchi 95 studio to give away the prize to the winner was visibly excited too. A Bollywood buff herself, she could not stop talking about how the station is catering to her Bollywood needs. 'I always wondered why isn't there a Hindi station here. I used to miss my daily Hindi music fix while travelling, and I am so happy that Mirchi 95 plays 100% Bollywood songs and takes care of my music need. And, am super excited to be a part of this contest and giving out a Mercedes on radio' It just shows how much they love their listeners,' said Raashi, ardently wishing she could participate in the contest too.
 The contest that was 100% Bollywood interspersed with Mirchi's trademark mirchiness saw over 60,000 entries from the twin city. With oodles of Bollywood drama peppered by the in-house RJs, the 15 final contestants were in for a treat. Though complete strangers to each other, they bonded over Bollywood and were spotted revelling in the contest together like a family. Mercedes or no Mercedes, they all took home an experience sure to be etched in their minds forever.
 
