KOLKATA: Close to two months have passed since   but one of the largest   in the country is yet to calibrate their   in the city that are supposed to help customers with hassle-free   any time of the day without having to stand in a queue.

  had started the self-service payment facility in the city around three years ago and now it has 34 such kiosks outside or adjacent to 34 Vodafone stores. However, none of them has been calibrated to accept new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes.
 
 “The hardware as well as the software of each machine has to be changed to allow them to accept the notes. The new notes are different in texture as well as size. Our machines cannot identify them yet,” said an official at a Vodafone store in south Kolkata. “We have informed our senior officials several times to re-calibrate the machines but the work has not been done yet,” he added.
 
 A spokesperson for Vodafone India said they were on the job. “We are recalibrating the kiosks for accepting new currency and several customer-friendly steps, including pilot runs with swipe machines for field collections, to ease any inconvenience to customers. We are also encouraging our customers to adopt digital modes of transactions, including through Vodafone M-Pesa,” the statement read.
 
 The self-service kiosks were originally set up to accept notes of Rs. 10, 50, 100, 500 and 1000. Post demonetization, the stores had put up guards outside the kiosks for the initial weeks to ensure no one makes payment in banned notes, following which, the machines were tweaked to refuse the old notes. “Once an old note is placed in the machine, it would eject the note back,” said the official.
 
 The machine now accepts payments in cash, cheque and credit card. “I don’t have a credit card and have always paid my bills in cash. Generally they are above Rs 2000 and I used to make the payments mostly late into the night while coming back from office. Now since they don’t accept cash in higher denomination, it has become a real hassle. I had to shift to paytm for bill payments,” said Sunirman Basu, a resident of Jadavpur.
 
 
