India's   outreach could be impaired by repeated instances of violence against African students at a time when India is competing for influence with China in the resource-rich continent. The fear of a diplomatic blowback led the foreign minister,  , to quickly intervene in the latest incident of violence against Nigerians in Greater Noida.
 
 India has worked hard in the recent past to diversify its energy sources and Africa now accounts for more than 25 per cent of India's crude imports. Nigeria alone accounts for almost half of that amount.
  
 Former ambassadors and strategic affairs experts are unanimous that the government needs to act swiftly to prevent any serious damage to India's ties with African nations. According to former foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal, even though the violence has social roots, the incident in Greater Noida, which saw mobs attacking Nigerian nationals, was damaging as it could tarnish India's image in Africa.
  
 ``This is a complex issue which involves many African countries and it's important that we assuage the feelings of African missions, apart from looking for a permanent solution to the problem,'' he says.
  
 At a time when India is stepping up its diplomatic outreach to Africa to counter China’s growing penetration of that continent, says strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney, the senseless attacks on Africans by hoodlums are inflicting serious damage to its credibility and image there. 
  
 ``If such attacks continue, India’s diplomatic investments in Africa could go down the drain. The external affairs minister did the right thing by promptly intervening after the latest attack left some Nigerians injured,'' says Chellaney.
  
 A top African diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Greater Noida attack was racist even if the local government did not acknowledge it as such. ``The problem is that there is not enough education or awareness out there about Africans,’’ he said.
  
 Like with the earlier attacks on Africans, the latest incident too has been widely reported by the international and African media.According to Association of African Students in India (AASI), while the cops had assured them of security, there was no such assurance from the local government. ``Somebody from the government should have apologised for what has happened. We want some preventive action to make us feel safe,'' says AASI president Samuel Jack.
  
 The alarming frequency of such attacks has spooked MEA which is dependent on the local law and order machinery prevent these incidents. Former Indian high commissioner to Nigeria HHS Viswanathan says that, in the short run, the only way to deal with the situation is through strict implementation of law and order.
  
 ``Only an FIR will mean nothing to African countries. It is important that we have proper follow up action and I find that missing. The government also needs to give good publicity to any action which it takes against the culprits,’’ says Viswanathan, who has served in several other African countries too.
  
 ``An incident like this will certainly have an impact on ties. There will be pressure on governments there to raise such issues with India just as there is pressure on our own government to raise issues related to racist attacks on Indians abroad,’’ he adds.
  
 According to Viswanathan, the only long-term solution is to create awareness about Africa including, if possible, by introducing it in school curriculum. ``This is occurring again and again and we can’t brush it under the carpet anymore,’’ he says.
  
 According to AASI, there are about 7000 African students in India. Many Africans visit India also for medical treatment and business. In 2015, 25,000 Nigerians obtained Indian visas for these purposes in a sign of increasing people to people contact between Inda and Africa.
 
 Ties with Africa received a boost in 2015 with India successfully hosting the 3rd India-Africa Forum Summit. The summit was attended by 40 heads of state and government from Africa.
 
 To further underscore the significance of its. Africa outreach, PM   visited Tanzania, Kenya, Mozambique and South Africa in July 2016. This was preceded by President Mukherjee's visit to Namibia, Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire
 
 At the India-Africa Forum Summit, India also offered 50,000 scholarships for African students over the next 5 years. It further offered a $ 600 million grant assistance and $ 10 billion concessional line of credit to Africa.
 
 
