NEW DELHI: When   met  , they were in danger of being eliminated from the   play-offs race. As it turned out, they were indeed knocked out by their opponents, who after two losses to Gujarat last season finally put one past them when they chased 210 in stunning manner on the back of Sanju Samson and Rishabh Pant. 

 A week later, the teams meet at Kanpur's Green Park with Delhi also out of contention for the play-offs following a record low total of 67 against table-toppers Mumbai Indians. Each have eight points, Delhi three matches to play compared to Gujarat's two, and the only thing remaining to be seen is which of these two end the league at seventh ahead of the dismal Royal Challengers Bangalore. 
 
 Daredevils' season of contrasting fortunes can perhaps be summed up by a look at the totals they've put up in the last four games: 68, 189/4 214/3 and 67 - the last being a record low achievement. With their participation in the 2018 edition uncertain, Gujarat can at best hope to give the fans in their adopted home of Kanpur reason to cheer as the   bandwagon rolls into the north Indian city for two matches. 
 
 
 Green Park, Kanpur
 
 May 10, 2017
 
 20:00 IST
 
 
 A clear evening with a low of 28 degrees Celsius. 
 
 
 Dwayne Smith's rip-roaring 74 off 39 balls to drive a chase of 191 against Kings XI Punjab has given the team something to smile about at the top. With Andrew Tye, Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Brvao out with injuries and Jason Roy released to play for England, the only overseas option remaining is the UAE allrounder Chirag Suri. He did not play against KXIP, indicating that Gujarat will stick with the same winning team. 
 
 
 1  , 2 Ishan Kishan, 3   (capt), 4 Dinesh Karthik (wk), 5 Aaron Finch, 6 Ravindra Jadeja, 7 James Faulkner, 8 Dhawal Kulkarni, 9 Pradeep Sangwan, 10 Basil Thampi, 11 Ankit Soni
 
 
 
 Marlon Samuels has batted once and made one run, and his darting offspin has not fetched him a wicket, so he could be swapped with Angelo Mathews. That said, Mathews was not required to bat or bowl in his last appearance. 
 
 
 1 Sanju Samson, 2 Karun Nair, 3 Rishabh Pant (wk), 4 Shreyas Iyer, 5 Corey Anderson, 6 Marlon Samuels/Angelo Mathews, 7 Chris Morris, 8 Kagiso Rabada, 9 Amit Mishra, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Shahbaz Nadeem
 
 
 Delhi's loss to Mumbai by 146 runs is a tournament record. 
 
 
 After taking 12 wickets in his first five matches, Chris Morris has gone wicketless in the last four.
 
 
  Despite his team's woes, Gujarat skipper Suresh Raina is third on the run chart with 434.
 
 
 GL 2-DD 1
 
 
 "We're already out of the tournament, so we can't worry about that, we just need to keep going on and look to damage some other teams as well." - Dwayne Smith
 
 "Given another chance I would probably go with the same combination." -  
 
