PATNA: The state government has planned forced retirement of non-performing   (DEOs) and district programme officers (DPOs) above 50 years of age and action against principals and teachers of those schools which had poor performance in the intermediate and matriculation exams conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board. The state education department has asked the director (administration) to identify those government schools whose students performed badly in Class X and XII board exams. The move is aimed at improving the standard of school education in Bihar.

 “The government will take action against such school principals and teachers which have got zero pass percentage. Forced retirement would be given to DEOs and DPOs who have reached above 50 years of age and performance of schools under their jurisdiction was poor. We are trying to know the reasons for poor results of those schools,” director, state secondary education, Rajiv Prasad Singh Ranjan said.
 
 Only 35.25% of around 12.4 lakh students, who appeared for the intermediate exam this year, could pass. The total pass percentage in matriculation was 50.12% only.
 
 Under the short term plan (3 months), education department has asked the Bihar board to disaffiliate the non-government schools, which are getting financial support from state but had poor performance in the board exams. The board has also been asked to take action against the principals of those schools. At the same time, the department has directed the Bihar State Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited to finish the construction of incomplete school buildings within two months.
 
 “DEOs and DPOs will ensure the proper use of teaching aids, like globe and models in their respective district schools. The laboratories and libraries should be functional and are equipped with important tools. Block education officers (BEOs) and DEOs should check that no school lags behind in completing the syllabus and it should be checked every month,” Ranjan said.
 
 The government schools were asked to take exams of secondary and senior secondary students once in every three months and the students who perform poorly would be given tutorial classes. Ranjan said, “The school will also arrange parent-teacher meetings every three months. Schools will be asked to keep a record of the parent-teacher meetings for further reference. It is also important to keep track of students and teachers ratio in each school under the midterm (6 month) plan.”
 
 Under long-term (1 year) plan, students who perform worst in matriculation and intermediate exams would be given extra classes by the school management. “The department will also maintain the list of teachers and their respective subjects and other information. The teaching ability of the teachers above 50 will be assessed and amendment will be made in the existing law for the early retirement of those not found fit,” Ranjan said.
 
 
