CHANDIGARH: Punjab former chief minister   on Sunday “politely declined” the offer of a free government accommodation by the Punjab Government, but said that he was “thankful to chief minister   for his gracious gesture”.

 “It is very graceful of him to make this offer and I thank him from the core of my heart for this. But I am making my own arrangements for stay. However, I value his sentiment highly and fully reciprocate it,” he said.
 
 In a statement here, Badal said he and his party would “fully, whole-heartedly and constructively support any decision of the   government which is in the larger interest of Punjab”. “Shiromani Akali Dal does not believe in confrontation nor in criticism for the sake of criticism.,” he said.
 
 Badal said if the new government had the will to fulfill its promises, it could easily do so. “Their manifesto was prepared and released by one of the finest economists in the world, Dr Manmohan Singh ji, and he would not have made these promises if he thought that Punjab government’s treasury was empty and lacks funds to meet these expenses. So, I expect the new government to fulfill its promises in the first month itself. I will personally congratulate them when they do so,” he said.
 
 Badal said he was surprised over the setting up of a committee by the new government to study farmers’ debt. “All details are available in government records and in studies by farm economists and university experts. All it needs is for the new government to implement its promise,” he said.
 
 Badal said he did not believe that Captain Amaridner Singh, as a Sikh, would go back on the promises he made with the sacred scriptures in his hand. “I am waiting for announcements not only on drugs, but also on the waiver of farm debt, raising of pensions and shagun scheme amounts, and all other schemes announced by Congress in it manifesto. I believe they will not let the people down,” he said.
 
 Commenting on the first few decisions announced by the state cabinet, he said, “Quite honestly, I am surprised that the new government could think nothing beyond announcing policies and decisions already implemented by the SAD-BJP government.” 
 
