KOLKATA/HOWRAH: Overnight rain and   triggered by a   over   resulted in   in several pockets of Kolkata. The city recorded 66.2mm rainfall till 8.30pm on Sunday .

 According to Met, the city will continue to remain wet though the intensity of the downpour is likely to be lesser on Monday .
 
 On Sunday , Kolkatans woke up to waterlogged streets and pockets of Behala were among the worst-affected areas.
 
 As Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) workers activated the booster pumping stations, water receded from areas like Kankurgachi, Amherst Street, College Street and Central Avenue. But areas in Behala, including Borisha, Shilpara and Shakuntala Park, remained waterlogged. KMC has alerted all its 73 pumping stations across the city to be ready to tackle the situation. Met office said that a cyclo nic circulation, which had been hovering above Bangladesh till Sunday, has started moving towards Gangetic West Bengal.Now, the system is positioned over the Gangetic West Bengal region, triggering the rain.
 
 “The system is very strong and that is why it is causing the widespread rain. Moreover, the monsoon trough is also passing through the area. The intensity of the downpour may come down from Monday as the cyclonic circulation is expected to move towards Jharkhand.But as it moves westward, it will continue to trigger heavy showers in Bankura, Birbhum, Burdwan and West Midnapore,“ said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. At 270mm, Bankura has re corded the heaviest rainfall in the state in the past 24 hours.
 
 Apart from improved weather prediction, the coordination between agencies like Met office, KMC and disaster management team has got better.The civic body has been timely upgrading the pumping stations and carrying out de-silting work.
 
 Tarak Singh, MMiC (drainage), KMC, blamed several ongoing works under the Kolkata Environment Improvement Project (KEIP) for the waterlogging in Behala.
 
 “We expect KEIP work to be complete by next monsoon.Then, the situation will change in Behala,“ Singh told TOI on Sunday . Even though KMC has been proactive in tackling waterlogging, the civic body in Kolkata's twin city Howrah has not been able to achieve much. Large parts of Howrah remained waterlogged as the drainage systems were unable to handle the medium to heavy showers since Saturday morning. In some areas, people were shifted out of their homes to temporary rescue shelters after the weather office predicted that it will continue to rain through the night on Sunday .
 
 Wards 1, 2, 3 and 6 in Ghushuri, Salkia and Banangachi were under knee-deep water.The water has also entered homes of people living in wards 7 and 9 in Liluah, Nonapara and Tikiapara where the Howrah Municipal Corporation is operating pumps to flush out the water.
 
 The situation is grave in a large stretch between East West Road, Belilious Road and Panchanantala in the heart of the city where people were seen wading through water as cars and electric-operated Totos were unable to ply . This stretches also saw very little movement of bus.
 
 Some parts of ward 48 and 50 were also under knee-deep water and canals have overflown. Even the areas around Jaiswal Hospital (ward 62) remained waterlogged, making it difficult for relatives of patients to reach the hospital.
 
 
 
