HYDERABAD: Hyderabad's pride of being home to the country's largest national flag measuring 108x72 feet on a 291-tall flag post, has proved to be short-lived.

 Even before a year has turned around, the credit for country's largest and highest Tricolour has been claimed by the Punjab government which on Sunday hoisted a whopping 120x80 foot flag atop a 360-feet tall flag post at Attari on the border with Pakistan.
 
 Telangana chief minister   unfurled what was then the largest national flag in India on June 2, 2016 at   on the banks of Hussainsagar.The government had originally planned for a twin honour the largest Tricolour on the tallest flag pole standing at 303 feet in the country . But the plans did not materialize with the   of In dia (AAI) shooting down the proposal for a 303-feet tall flag post forcing the government to restrict its height to 291 feet, two feet shorter than the one in Ranchi in Jharkhand. The AAI had rejected the state's request for a taller flag post as the location chosen for installing it was close to the   airport.
 
 With plans for the tallest flag post coming to a naught, the state government then focused its attention on hoisting the largest Tricolour and planned one that was 108 in length and 72 in height to make it the largest national flag in the country. Now, the Attari flag has grabbed the honours for being the biggest Tricolour on the tallest flag post in the country.
 
 Incidentally, ever since the national flag was hoisted at Sanjeeviah Park, no department was willing to take up the responsibility for its maintenance. While roads and buildings (R&B) department executed the work till its erection, maintenance was handed over to the   (HMDA) since the park and surrounding area fall in its jurisdiction.
 
 Less than a week after the largest national flag was unfurled in the city, it was torn because of gusty winds and was immediately replaced.
 
 As per the national flag code manual, if the national flag is damaged or is in soiled condition, it should not be displayed and should be destroyed in a manner keeping with the dignity of the flag.
 
 “Since its erection, eight flags have been damaged due to winds and the size of the flag is not in tune with the height of the flag post. We have kept three spare flags apart from the existing ones as they are prone to damage. Each flag costs us about Rs 1.80 lakh,“ sources in the state government told TOI.
 
 For maintenance of the flag, government officials as flag, government officials assured the HMDA of fund support but no money has been sanctioned so far.
 
 “HMDA, in a year, spends about `40 lakh for maintenance of the national flag including power bill, manpower and other expenditure,“ a senior HMDA official said.
 
