KOCHI:  , which is grappling with the issue of how to remove plastic waste, is now toying with the idea of installing surveillance cameras in public places. The move is to fight against those who dump waste in public places and they have sought people's support on it. 

 The municipality will install 40 CCTVs in various places. At present, there are around 10 CCTVs installed with the support of many residents associations. The new CCTVs installed in the local body limit will be monitored at the municipal office.
 
 The local body has already restricted collecting only cleaned waste following parliamentary standing committee that asked it to remove plastic waste dumped in the yard, spread across two and half acres of land near Appollo tyres. 
 
 The committee asked the civic body to remove waste in December 2015. It had been asked to remove waste starting January 2016 within six months. The local body could not comply with the order since nobody turned up to remove plastic waste. Environmentalists in the area approached the parliamentary committee as the seepage from the   yard to the Thoombakkal canal running nearby, leads to Periyar river. Later Municipality resumed to remove waste dumped near the canal. It removed 400 loads.
 
 Currently, the wet waste generated in the municipality limit is transported to Brahmapuram and only the plastic waste is dumped near Appolo tyres. Last yea,r the local body spend Rs 10 lakhs to remove the waste from the yard.
 
 The municipality officials are now clinging to their proposal to set up a recycle unit for shredding plastic waste. But the project is still in nascent as it reached nowhere. "We have announced Rs 25 lakhs for setting up the recycle plant. The proposal needs to get government approval. We will hold a meeting in a few days to discuss about the proposal", said municipality health inspector Prasad.
 
 "Migrant workers living in the local body limit dump waste in public places. The major problem is in Toshiba junction where dumping waste is high. Earlier we used to collect waste from roadsides and auditoriums. Now we collect cleaned waste as the contractors would remove only cleaned ones. The local body generates around six tonnes of waste per week. We have yet to identify the place where the recycle unit should be installed", Veemol Varghese, health standing committee chairperson said.
 
 Pollution control board environment engineer in Ernakulam had visited the yard last month and submitted a report to the Aluva magistrate court. "The local body told me that they removed 400 loads of plastic waste near the canal. They stopped dumping waste about 50m to the canal", said Mini Mary Sam, environment engineer in Ernakulam PCB said.
 
