NAGPUR: The city police, in response to the   related to real estate, has opened a ‘Property cell’ under   (EOW) of the   to deal with the   

 The cell, which started functioning in February following initiative of city police chief K Venkatesh, has been already allotted around 10 cases of frauds related to land and apartments. 
 
 Though the special unit started with a senior PI (Vazeer Shaikh), two officers and five personnel, the police chief has principally agreed to boosting its manpower as the volume of work seems to have increased within a few weeks of its inception. 
 
 DCP, EOW, Ishu Sindu, detailing the concept behind opening the unit, said that it would be helpful in assorting the cases related to property frauds to ascertain whether they belong to criminal or civil jurisprudence. “Citizens would now at least know whether it would be police or civil court which would entertain their complaints, thus curtailing the long waiting period. 
 
 “We would focus on applications having criminal ingredients with a group of dedicated personnel assigned for this particular work only. Earlier, the applications would go to any officers and the case would fail to get desired attention,’ the DCP said.
 
 Sindhu said the other objective of opening the cell was to focus on racketeers and gangs who are repeat offenders in cases of fraud, victimizing a bigger chunk of population. “The CP wanted some officers to intensely chase the racketeers and such organized gangs duping citizens in property matters,” he said. 
 
 Ramnath City developers first to be booked under MOFA: Cop 
 
 Nagpur: The speculations surrounding applicability of Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the promotion of, construction, sale, management and transfer) Act, 1963 or MOFA seems to have been put to rest by city police in the high profile Ramnath City case. 
 
 The developers of the project and some others are the first to have been booked under relevant provisions of MOFA, said PI V Shaikh of   of the Economic Offences Wing. 
 
 The case, which was registered at Koradi police station last year, has been transferred to the property cell following an order from the high court. The case was filed by flat owners of Ramnath City on Koradi Road claiming that their properties were not legally transferred. 
 
 Police said the role of some officials from CIDCO and HUDCO is also under scanner. 
 
 
