

 
 
 It's a policy decision, and the CAG is going to respect the policy decision, not question it. But, certainly , there are some issues that are coming out of that, like the money deposited in bank accounts that will be subject of assessment by the revenue department, which has undertaken an exercise of data analysis and may come out with certain outliers and red flags. That itself will take some time. The role of the auditor will come after these assessments are over. We will look into other aspects of demonetisation, such as how much it impacted the revenue of the RBI, or on its dividends. The bottom line is: The CAG is not going to question the policy decision.
 
 
 
 There is no contradiction. The CAG had never questioned the policy decisions of the government. If you look at the recent few years...we only commented on the implementation of existing policies, and in case of the coal block allocations we made our observations on the non-implementation of policies. But we never questioned the policies per se. So, you justify the CAG quantifying presumptive losses due to faulty implementation of policies? It is the job of the auditor to point out irregularities and losses based on certain assumptions, and such assumptions may sometimes be questioned. The audit observation remains incomplete if the amount involved under the objection is not pointed out.
 
 
 
 The CAG is an apolitical of fice and he owes allegiance to the Constitution alone. So, change of political parties is not relevant to him.
 
 
 
 As I said before, the institution of CAG is independent and apolitical. Therefore, having cordial or critical relations is not of much significance. The CAG must act impartially .
 
 To my understanding, the o mandatory introduction of a d collegium would require amendment of the Constitu tion. Having said so, I will add that the successive apn pointments of the CAG for e decades have shown that in cumbents were not found wanting in competence, cred ibility or impartiality.
 
 
 
 We have been carrying out audits of private companies and public-private partnership projects (PPP) where government revenue is involved.There have been some cases where some objected to the CAG's role in auditing expenditure (in the KG D-6 basin), but we ultimately prevailed.Without the audit of expenditure of a private company involved in a revenue-sharing arrangement with the government it will be difficult to ascertain the actual profit or the revenue share. The SC has laid down very clearly that wherever public resources are utilised for generation of wealth, and where the government has a share in revenue, whether due share has come to the Consolidated Fund of India or not will be investigated by the auditor.
 
 
 No, we don't play any role in this. I believe, the Niti Aayog has framed some model agreements and MoUs for government departments, where it may have revenue-sharing arrangements with the private sector. If policy is well defined, it will result in fair and transparent transaction.
 
 
 So far, we have not been told to take up any responsibility .As and when we are asked, we will audit the BCCI's revenue and expenditure. Some state units, however, requested the CAG in the recent past, and in those few places our auditorsgeneral participated in some meetings.
 
 
 
 We have finalised a report on the `Rejuvenation of River Ganga'; one on the implementation of food safety standards; a performance audit on the Kudankulam nuclear power plant and on the introduction of bio-toilets in passenger trains (among others). 
 
