CHANDIGARH: For students coming from a background where their parents cannot even take a day off to meet them or they will lose a day's earnings, clearing JEE (Main) was nothing more than a dream come true.
Their immediate wish is to focus on JEE (Advance), but the long-term plan is to reach a level where they can change the life of their families.
 
 Shivagiajot Singh from  , whose parents are labourers, wants to become a mechanical engineer and fulfil his elder sister's dream to become an IPS officer. “Finance is a problem since my parents don't get work most of the time and it becomes difficult to even pay my sister's college fees. My sister has motivated me a lot,“ he says.
 
 Having faced difficulties and challenges, parents of   do not want him to tread the same path.
 
 “They always tell me to study so that I do not live a life like theirs. At present, my father can't even take a day off and on some days there is no work.   is always a problem. I am not sure how I will manage college but I will try to find out a way ,“ says   from Mohali who wants to become an aircraft engineer.
 
 The students also aim to return to their villages and motivate others. While some want to open schools in their village, others wish to open coaching institutes to provide training to other students.
 
 “In my village most of the youngsters are either classes VIII or X drop outs. The mindset is such that they do not consider education important. So I want to become an inspiration for others,“ says   from Derabassi. He wants to fulfil his father's dream who cracked   but couldn't take admission due to financial crisis. He says, “My father will do anything to ensure that I gain admission. Though we are not financially sound, he is confident,“ he adds.
 
 Being motivated by his brother Parveen Kumar, Sanjay is aiming to get into Punjab Engineering College and do BTech as he feels he cannot afford to go to IIT. “PEC is my dream, but finance will decide.“
 
 Hailing from Ropar Amritpal Singh wants to make his family proud by getting into IIT.“I want to help my father in running the family as being the sole bread-earner he faces a lot of problems in managing a family of five.“ He wants to pursue engineering in electronics.
 
