NEW DELHI: The government on Friday promulgated an ordinance empowering the   (RBI) to issue specific instructions to banks to act against   and also initiate bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings under the law, while promising more steps to ensure that banks get cracking on tackling bad debt amounting to over Rs 6 lakh crore.

 While details of additional steps will be announced shortly, finance minister   told reporters that new targets, being fixed for the state-run lenders as part of the annual exercise, will link additional equity support to immediate “cash Banks eye top 50% of `10L-cr bad loans, P 20 release initiatives“, such as sale of assets, closure of nonprofitable branches, reduction of overheads, steps to turn around the business and strengthening of credit appraisal process.
 
 While some of the steps such as sale of non-core assets have been discussed in the past too, banks failed to make much headway . For the moment, the government has focused on the legal provisions through the ordinance to let the RBI to issue “directions to any banking company or banking companies to initiate insolvency resolution process in respect of a default under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016“.
 
 The ordinance also empowered the RBI to set up sector oversight panels that will help shield bankers from possible action by investigative agencies looking into loan restructuring proposals.The fear of agencies such as CBI, Comptroller & Auditor General and the   have been cited by bankers to hold back decisions.
 
 “A committee which oversees such JLF (joint lenders forum) arrangements is one step which will give them Source: RBI Financial Stability Report (bankers) this comfort level,“ finance minister Arun Jaitley said at a press conference. An amendment is also proposed to the Prevention of Corruption Act, for which a Bill was introduced in Parliament. The standing committee has submitted its report on it and a revised Bill will be introduced in Parliament soon.
 
 Jaitley -who made no bones about “unacceptably high level of non-performing assets (NPAs)“ hindering the capacity of lenders to fund economic activities -said the government has also given a one-time general authorisation to the RBI.The ordinance, recommended by Parliament on Wednesday , was promulgated by President   on Thursday evening.The ordinance, which inserts two new provisions into the Banking Regulation Act 1949, will have to be placed in Parliament for approval in the monsoon session.
 
 “The object of this Act is that the present status quo cannot continue. And, the present status quo is that not much was moving and therefore a paralysis in the name of autonomy is detrimental to the economy itself and therefore really requires to be broken,“ Jaitley said. He said the move will expedite commercial decision makings of banks. The minister said one of the objects is that “when bankers take commercial decisions on commercial and banking considerations, they must have adequate comfort level“. 
 
