THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Last month, the ruling the LDF government directed police to let off a youth who was taken into custody alleging Maoist links and drop sedition charges imposed against a novelist. Writer   and social activist C Nadir were let off following an effective online campaign by people from all quarters, including the Left followers. There were no powerful organisations to unite the protestors, despite the social media platforms like Facebook and Whatsapp, where messages on the injustice meted out to these activists were widely debated.

 In December, 2014, a   Sandeep Pillai initiated a campaign in Change.org, an online petition site that garnered a support of 3.75 lakh people for net neutrality. The TRAI later ruled in favour of net neutrality .   unleashed a scathing attack against killing of dogs in the state by organising a `Boycott Kerala' campaign in social media in July , last year, which was a major blow to the state which depends on tourism as major revenue.
 
 Political parties are yet to learn from what individuals, unorganised groups and activists have proved as effective modes of protest. If sensitising public, getting their solidarity and raising a joint protest are the aims of a hartal, it is a total failure. MLA V T Balram feels hartal is the easiest mode of protest for political parties. “All other forms need mobilisation of public and other organising efforts. This is the easiest method. You just have to announce a hartal. In terms of educating people on the topic and garnering their support, hartal is least effective. Hartal is the highest form of protest, but misuse has weakened its effects,“ he said.
 
 Those in favour of hartals say real issues require real solutions and that can't be resolved by social media campaigns. But, the campaign for justice for Jisha started by the friends of brutally murdered dalit girl of Perumbavoor in April, last year, in social media with #justiceforjisha hashtag disproved that argument too.The police, which were not serious about the crime initially , had to work on their toes and find the culprit from his hideout following the massive campaign triggered by the social media. It is true that the campaign, after the initial push, was taken up by political parties and women's organisations.
 
 CPM leader M B Rajesh said he was against banning hartals. “Hartal must be the final form of protest, which unfortunately , is not the case. It must be organised only as a last resort,“ said Rajesh. When asked about other modes of protest, Rajesh showed the example of recent human chain against demonetisation. “The day and night satyagraha organised by CPM, too was a different mode of protest,“ Rajesh said.
 
 Balram pointed out the online campaign against slapping of UAPA as an innovative mode of protest. He, however, admitted that political parties are not utilising online media as an effective protest tool. “In terms of educating about a particular issue and gaining support, online media is an ideal option,“ he said.
 
 
