NEW DELHI: Indian   and lenders are beginning to experiment with new debt instruments, such as non-convertible debentures, at a time when equity financing remains constrained, forcing ventures to look for alternative sources of capital.
 
  Over the past six months, two prominent startups, furniture rental company   and online lending platform Capital Float, have floated NCDs to raise fresh capital from investors, potentially paving the way for other high net-worth individuals to back startups by providing debt financing, instead of equity, which has primarily been the case till date.
  
  NCDs are typically defined as unsecured bonds that cannot be converted to company equity or stock, and usually have higher interest rates than convertible debentures, which can be converted into stock.
  
  This also comes at a time when venture debt is increasingly being seen as an attractive option for India's startups that have continued to face hurdles in raising venture capital in a difficult environment.
  
  The past 12 months have seen the country's top three venture debt firms - IntelleGrow,   and   - ramp up their pace of lending. While InnoVen Capital has disbursed Rs 400 crore in 2016, Trifecta Capital has taken its capital commitments to Rs 220 crore by the end of December. Additionally,   has disbursed about Rs 150 crore, across 50 transactions, over the past six months.
  
  "Pooling NCD's issued by small and growing businesses and placing them with investors is a great way to provide these investors with exposure to these businesses that they don't necessarily have direct access to," said Akbar Khan, chief executive of specialty debt financing firm IntelleGrow.
  
  "There is clearly a need for it, and it's happening at a time when there is an urgent need to look for alternative sources of capital," Khan said.
  
  While the actual number of deals have been limited so far, industry experts believe that NCDs, whether listed or not, could potentially see HNI investors earn alpha returns.
  
  "There's been a massive interest spike among HNIs to participate in the venture debt space as well... But it needs to be done carefully, with the right partners, and structured well," said Vinod Murali, managing director, InnoVen Capital.
  
  Till date, the focus has been on companies that invest through their balance sheets, such lending firms, or those that have asset-heavy models, or startups that have managed to show positive cash flows, critical for them to service debt.
  
  "Debt is also validation of the fact that debt givers have gone through your balance sheet and P&L statement, and they think, based on their understanding, you will be able to pay them off. That health check is the best reflection of a business model," said Ajith Mohan Karimapana, chief executive, Furlenco.
  
  IntelleGrow, one of the largest venture debt providers in the country, has begun to structure NCD-focused deals for its clients. While Khan declined to disclose the names of the startups, it is currently structuring deals for, he said the debt provider was working on "multiple" transactions.
  
  In October last year, Furlenco raised Rs 200 crore ($30 million) in a fresh round of funding that included a significant debt component, which saw the company raise financing from banks as well as from high net-worth individuals, who subscribed to NCDs issued by the company.
  
  That round saw a number of corporate chieftains subscribe to Furlenco's NCDs in their personal capacities, including Gautham Radhakrishnan, partner,  , one of the country's leading private equity firms.
  
  Additionally, Capital Float raised Rs 17 crore by issuing NCDs to Chennai-based non-banking financial company   Capital Finance and its alternative investment fund.
