NAGPUR:   has asked all its party activists who have sought ticket for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)   to go door-to-door to seek vote for the party. The party bosses have termed this exercise ‘Pol Khol’ (expose the  ). Meanwhile, the city Congress unit has sent the list of such candidates to Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) for selection of the candidates.

 City Congress chief Vikas Thakre told TOI, “If there are 20 party workers who have sought ticket from a ward then all of them are moving around the ward together asking people to vote for us. We are telling them about the scams during the BJP’s ten year tenure and increase in water tax and property tax. However, we have made it clear to them that only four people will get the party ticket. Rest would be doing their bit for party.”
 
 The failure of BJP-ruled government in providing quality service to citizens is being used as ammunition against the ruling party. The focus is on potholed roads, non-functional street lights, unsatisfactory garbage collection, poor city bus service, etc. Increase in water tax and impending hike in property tax is also being brought to the fore.
 
  district chief Satish Harde said that after the party decided to proceed alone in the civic polls, large number of party activists demanded that they should be given an opportunity to contest the elections. “We had conducted the interviews about one and a half months ago. However, in view of the demand from party workers we have started distribution of forms from January 11. This will continue up to January 20. The forms will be scrutinized at local level and then sent to our sampark pramukh Tanaji Sawant for selection of candidates,” he told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, the process for interviewing BJP ticket aspirants was given a break by party leaders on Thursday. The interviews had started from January 6 and will restart from January 13. As per the current plan, the last day will be January 14. If required the process may be extended for a day or two. So far, 2,262 aspirants have been interviewed by leaders. The candidates will be finalized by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis later during the month.
 
