JAIPUR: Giving relief to in-service  , High Court on Friday issued order to the government to grant weightage of marks, assigned to in-service candidates, in the form of incentive, for determining their merit in NEET Examination, 2017, in terms of provisions in Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000.

 The division bench order of Justice   and   quashed and set aside the para 3 and 4 of order of the Government issued on March 20. In the order issued on March 20, the government had mentioned in para 3 that 50% of total seats (degree/diploma), which come under,   (i.e. 25% of total seats), will be only for the students who have received degree from Colleges affiliated to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences/Rajasthan University.
 
 In para 4, the   had mentioned that for the purpose of equating the in-service candidates for the grant of benefits, as per the previous policies of the State, the candidates who had worked for two or more years of regular service in Hilly/Desert/Tribal areas (difficult areas) and three or more years in other rural areas (remote areas), maximum of 10% of the marks obtained in the NEET as bonus marks as per the service actually rendered by the in-service candidate in the remote and/or difficult (rural) areas will be granted as an incentive.
 
 Counsel for the petitioners submitted that Reg.9 envisages one merit list for admitting to the State quota and the State Government has contemplated two separate merit lists of in-service candidates/Medical Officers and Medical Graduates under para-3 of its Executive Order March 20 this year which is impermissible and in utter violation of Reg.9 of the Regulations, 2000. Counsel further submitted that restriction of incentive upto 10% of the marks secured irrespective of the length of service rendered in remote and/or difficult areas of the State is also bad and in contravention of the Clause (IV) of Reg.9 of the Regulations, 2000.
 
 Gupta, Additional Advocate General appearing for the State Government while supporting the norms laid down by the state Government under its order issued on March 20 submitted that there will be only one merit list of State quota seats which has to be acted upon for admitting the candidates in Post Graduate Degree Courses based on NEET Examination, 2017. But, the State can always lay down the reasonable criteria in filling the State Quota and non-service candidates cannot be practically ruled out in totality from participating in the open competition and adding the weightage of marks assigned to in-service Doctors/Medical Officers as defined u/Reg.9(IV) of the Regulations, 2000 will certainly take away right of fair participation of the Medical Graduates (freshers) for their admission to the Post Graduate Courses.
 
 However, the court further directed the government that while treating in-service Doctors who are serving in hilly/desert/tribal areas as ‘difficult areas’ and other rural areas as ‘remote areas’ as identified by the Government, the government is directed to grant them weightage of marks, assigned to in service candidates, in the form of incentive, for determining their merit in NEET Examination, 2017.
 
 The court order says, “It is expected from the respondents to complete the process of admission to Post Graduate Degree Courses, as per the revised calendar placed on record.”
 
