BENGALURU: While a few adult pillion riders may scrupulously wear a helmet in deference to the law or to avoid coughing up penalties, hardly any children travelling on two-wheelers are seen with the headgear on. With   claiming the lives of 20 children in the country every day, experts on Friday stressed the need for a robust legislation and strict enforcement of road-safety norms to avoid the loss of young lives. 

 Marking National Road Safety Week, experts from Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) and Road Safety Initiative for Safe Karnataka (RISK) spoke about inadequate child-safety measures in both four and two-wheelers, and batted for immediately framing a policy on implementation of better safety norms for kids.
 
 Kripa Amar Alva, chairperson, KSCPCR, said, "Every morning, children are dropped to schools on two-wheelers by their parents or care-givers. It's disheartening to see parents wearing helmets, but not ensuring the kids too have them on."
 
 "Not just lack of helmets, they are also exposed to other threats such as being made to sit in the front of the vehicle. Even infants are sometimes taken on two-wheelers for lack of better options. This is extremely risky," she added.
 
  While stating that parents would never want to harm children intentionally, experts blamed it all on lack of awareness and inadequate use of safety measures. 
 
 Pragati Hebbar from RISK pointed out that there are very few options available to safely ferry children on two- and four-wheelers. "There are very few child-restraint measures in vehicles, including public transport, cycles and vehicle pooling. And even if they are available, they are barely used," she said.
 
 Hebbar said some innovators are trying to create an airbag-like protective headgear for very young children and strap-on belts, but many parents aren't even aware of the existing options. The recent amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act seeks to address child safety only to an extent, but there are no specifications for children under the age of four. 
 
 "Having a robust legislation would be the first step in preventing these deaths and disability. The next important measure would be to implement these laws and get people to comply with them. However, looking at the pace at which things are going, it would take considerable time before fatalities among children could be curbed by 50%," said Alva.
 
 
