 Pilibhit: The wildlife crime control bureau of India (WCCB) got big success in getting an Indian smuggler of turtles nabbed in Kuala Lumpur by Malaysian authorities on Tuesday. The Malaysian authorities recovered as many as 55 live turtles of rare and endangered species from the custody of this smuggler. Giving this information to TOI, a senior IPS officer and the additional director of WCCB, Tilotama Verma, told that the smuggler had been identified by WCCB as Fakharuddin Ali Ahamed Habeeb, a resident of Chennai in Tamil Nadu. As per her, the WCCB had collected information about his deep indulgence in turtle’s smuggling and also about his tour to Malaysia along with live turtles. According to her, Habeeb was arrested in Malaysia on the tips of WCCB where he is being interrogated by Malaysian authorities.   “We had been given information about Habeeb by Netherlands based organization, Wildlife Justice Commission (WJC) that works in the field of intelligence collection about wildlife trafficking by wildlife criminals through their transnational organized network”, Verma said while stating that WJC had a system of sharing collected information with concerned authorities of respective countries for prohibitory action.    She said that WCCB immediately conveyed the information about Habeeb to Malaysian authorities as a result of which he was traced and arrested with live turtles of four species identified as red roof, spotted black terrapins, dhongok and Indian tent turtles.    Of these species, first two had been enlisted in schedule I of wildlife protection act of India. “Our first priority now is to ensure repatriation of smuggled live turtles and to rehabilitate them at their native habitats”, Verma said.    Habib had been kept under interrogation in Malasiya and the derived information such as his annual volume of smuggling, size of his organized criminal network and his area of criminal penetration would be shared by Malaysian authorities with WCCB through Interpol, she added.    “We have also shared the smuggling activity of Habib with principal chief conservator of forest of Tamil Nadu, Shekhar Kumar Neeraj, seeking his assistance in detection of Habib’s criminal background”, she said.    Regarding dhongok and Indian tent turtles which were among those rescued in Malaysia and had not been given place in wildlife protection act of India, the country program director of Turtle Survival Alliance of India and vice chairman of a Switzerland based organization, International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Dr Shailendra Singh told TOI that of the two species, dhongok had been kept under status of endangered while Indian tent turtle had been enlisted as vulnerable by a Geneva based Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, an agreement between governments.    Over a question of TOI, Singh accepted the need of including these two species in schedule one of wildlife protection act of India in view of ensuring their conservation and breed development.