NAGPUR: Children,   is one subject which is treated as a monster by most of the students and that is why the fear of the subject is always there with you. But during the exam all you have to do is prepare whatever you have practised till now and keep calm. And it is better if you study different topics according to their difficulty levels and if you think that any of these topic is very difficult then it’s better to drop it and focus more on whatever you have prepared and work hard on it. 

 Do not get stuck to a question for a long time. If you are unable to solve any problem, leave space for it and move on to the next question.
 
 The paper is of two sections, i.e. one and two, from the first section mostly short answers are asked and let me tell you that entire section one is very easy as compared to section 2. 
 
 Chapters like Matrices, LPP and others in section 1 are very scoring if you prepare them, and if you do them well, you have a chance of scoring very well as this section contains approximately 25 marks. So, make sure to attempt all questions from section 1. Coming to the second section, attempt if you have good practice because it is long and all the chapters are related to each other. Right from Trigonometry to Integration and derivation all are interconnected. If you know derivation then you can also solve problems related to integration. But for that you have to practice each of them.
 
 For long answer you have to use your skills more. Sometimes the questions are very clear but without reading properly you start solving it assuming it to be a complicated problem. Students often have the misconception that just because a problem has more marks against it, more applications are to be used. Please drop this misconception and do read 2 to 3 times any question before attempting to answer them. 
 
 One most important thing is by short questions first, you gain confidence. So, do it first. 
 
 Above all, take care of your health. Sleep early at night and review all the formulae and important topics early in the morning itself. Be confident and keep a   All the best! 
 
 - Dr Vinayak Bhujade, Member, Nagpur District Math  
 
 -HSC MathematicsRepresentative Image
 
