BENGALURU: With sharp focus and clear thoughts, the two finalists embarked on a battle of words even as the audience listened with rapt attention. While a video of Prime Minister  's demonetisation speech played, the auditorium fell silent. Rakesh Nayaka and   took to the stage to speak their heart and mind.

 Rakesh and Shelwyn made it to the finals of the Federal Bank Speak for India ­ Karnataka Edition, in association with The Times of India and Vijaya Karnataka.
 
 For Rakesh, a student of Siddaganga Institute of Technology , Tumakuru, this was his second time on the platform and all through he put forth his points in Kannada.Rakesh may have lost to Shelwyn of Christ University , but not before an ultimate clash of ideas on the final topic of the day -demonetization.
 
 Debating on topics like personality-driven politics, standing through the playing of the national anthem at cinema halls and the raging issue of demonetization, eight finalists from across Karnataka set the stage on fire at Sheraton Grand, Rajajinagar, on Tuesday .
 
 “Nationalism is something that cannot be enforced on someone,“ said Rama Narayan of Government College, Honnavar, arguing her point that asking citizens to stand for the national anthem at cinema halls was extreme nationalism.“Many come to the hall for entertainment. It isn't the place for one to sing the national anthem,“ said Rama, one of the finalists.
 
 Countering Rama, Aisha Abdul Gaffar a student of Al-Ameen Medical College, Vijayapura, quoted former US President John F Kennedy: “Ask not what your country did for you. Ask what you did for your country . Sparing 52 seconds of your time at a theatre for the national anthem shouldn't be an issue for anyone,“ she said.
 
 Ashwini Manjunath Bhat, a student of Karnatak University , Dharwad, constantly referred to Indira Gandhi in her speech. Debating that personality-driven politics isn't a threat to India, she said: “Driven by a single personality isn't a matter of threat. It symbolizes the strength that one person has to single-handedly empower the nation.“
 
 Rebutting Ashwini's take, Shastra Shetty, a student of Manipal University said: “We cannot attribute the success or failure of democracy to one person. Personality politics will only drive dynasty politics, and curb young leaders with fresh ideas.“
 
 “You don't fog your entire house to get rid of just one rat,“ was the winning statement from Shelwyn, who was arguing against the idea that demonetization was the answer to India's economic woes. Quoting statistics to bolster his arguments, the youngster said there was no need for the prime minister to announce this unnecessary move. Rakesh retorted: “Though critics may say that black money within the country wasn't too rampant, it still existed, until our PM made the breakthrough announcement.“
 
 Once the two youngsters rested their case, Shelwyn was declared the winner; Rakesh was the runnerup.Priyank Kharge, IT and tourism minister, gave away the prizes.
 
