NEW DELHI: As many as four terrorists, including two Pakistanis and two locals, are suspected to have carried out Monday's strike on the bus carrying Amarnath pilgrims. The attackers were affiliated with the Lashker-e-Toiba, with Abu   identified as the mastermind of the operation. 

 As per an assessment of the intelligence agencies, the terrorists were possibly tipped off about the potential target by some local overground workers (OGWs) who noticed the pilgrims and the bus, bearing tell-tale signs of Amarnath Yatra, when a flat tyre forced it to a halt some 10km from   on Monday evening.
 
 Taking cue from the attack, the security forces on Amarnath duty are being redeployed to assist the state police in manning the additional nakas to be put up. "CRPF along with the state police will ensure more night domination and patrolling after the regular ROP (road opening party) duty hours. Private vehicles moving late will be stopped at the nakas and moved to safer places for a night halt before resuming the journey next morning. Places to put up the yatris en route have been identified by the state government. These include yatri camps but if need be, the pilgrims can also be accommodated in   camps or police stations/police lines," CRPF chief Rajiv Rai Bhatnagar told TOI.
 
 Intelligence reports have pointed to the possibility of the Amarnath victims having unintentionally made themselves an easy target. Though the bus was registered with the   and was part of the convoy during its onward journey, it broke away from the convoy on its way back from Amarnath on July 8. In fact, the group of pilgrims, all from Gujarat, decided to proceed, unescorted, to Srinagar as regular tourists. 
 
 The pilgrims stayed in Srinagar for two days and the bus left for Katra only at 4.30 pm on Monday, violating an advisory from Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board asking private vehicles not to cross Jawahar tunnel after a prescribed hour. To make matters worse, the bus got a flat tyre some 10km from Khanabal around 6.30 pm. While the puncture was being fixed, the yatris got off and had food at a local dhaba. The agencies believe that some local OGWs present in the area noticed the pilgrims and the bus that bore religious signs like 'Om' and Amarnath Yatra stickers and tipped off the terrorists who targeted them once the road opening party was withdrawn after 7pm. 
 
