VISAKHAPATNAM: Aiming to turn   into a model state in the country, chief minister N   on Monday urged the centre to use the state as a platform for not just IT or  , but to launch projects in all sectors. 

 “If we are smart, then the country will become smart. How to make it is in our hands,” Naidu said while addressing the gathering at a two-day national conference on e-governance themed ‘Transforming India’ jointly organised by the ministry of electronics and infrastructure technology, department of administrative reforms and public grievances and Andhra Pradesh state government here on Monday. 
 
 He said the e-Pragathi project would be completed in a year’s time and that it will provide 725 e-services to the public. The CM said 33 departments have been completely computerised and the records digitised and the remaining departments will go paperless in a year’s time. Some of the achievements of the state include monitoring the underground water status, street lights maintenance, sanitation works, rainfall records and pensions, Naidu said. 
 
 The works of the Polavaram project are being monitored through CCTV cameras and drones and it will be completed in a record time, he said. On the demonetisation drive, Naidu said the state has achieved 34 per cent cashless transactions and aims to enhance it to 60 per cent by the end of this year. 
 
 Union urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu said only 3.7 crore population of the total fall under the tax assessee bracket. When everyone is brought under the tax net, interest rates of banks would come down and poor people will benefit, he said. 
 
 Union minister of state for PMO Jitendra Singh said the centre is aiming for minimum government and maximum governance.
 
 Union minister YV Sujana Chowadary, ministers Palle Raghunatha Reddy, Ch Ayyanna Patrudu, Ganta Srinivasa Rao, Anakapalli MP M Srinivasa Rao , AP IT secretary K Vijayanand, NASSCOM president R Chandrasekhar, secretary ministry of electronics and information technology of India Aruna Sundrarajan, secretary department of administrative reforms and public grievances C Viswanth and others were also part of conference. Around 25 CEOs of various companies, 225 officials of IT and other firms, 460 officers from AP and India, besides representatives of IBM, Google, TCS, Infosys too were present. 
 
 
