Chandrapur: A complete loan waiver immediately cannot bring about any change in the life of farmers, said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis during his visit to Mul on Tuesday. He added that the government was instead focusing on providing irrigation, power supply, agricultural pumps, market and proper support price to agriculture produce and modern agricultural technology to farmers. The government has ensured steep hike in agriculture growth rate over the last two years and will see that it is doubled in next four years, Fadnavis said in his speech after inaugurating the memorial and statue of second chief minister of Maharashtra Dadasaheb alias MS Kannamwar. Fadnavis maintained that the government has invested Rs19,000 crore out of the total Rs31,000 crores capital investment into the agriculture sector. This has helped raise the agriculture growth rate, he said. Pointing out that irrigation work worth Rs26,000 crores was underway, Fadnavis said the government is also focused on completing the irrigation projects in Vidarbha in record time. Gosikhurd irrigation project will be completed in 2019, he promised. “The government is focused on doubling agriculture income of farmers, instead of directly providing them loan waiver. There is also a possibility of farmers again going into the trap of heavy debts. Heavy loan burden on farmers, despite loan waiver in year 2008, itself is evidence,” he stressed. The CM explained that waiving the loan of farmers would only make them eligible to seek fresh loan. Hence, the government is focused on providing income sources to farmers and help them strengthen financially. The statistics of last two years prove that these efforts have paid off, he claimed. Fadnavis maintained, though, that the government is committed to the loan waiver and it will come at the proper time.  “The state government has urged the central government to prepare a scheme to bring around 31 lakh indebted farmers into institutional credit system (ICS), and the state is ready to bear its financial burden,” he said. He also took a dig at the opposition leaders on a Sangharsh Yatra in AC buses. He said the opposition is seeking pardon from farmers for their own sins committed against them. Finance minister and guardian minister of Chandrapur Sudhir Mungantiwar gave details of various development projects taken up in Chandrapur. Union minister of state Hansraj Ahir also addressed the gathering. The CM also inaugurated the Shamaprasad Mukharjee Public Library at Mul. FDCM chairman Chandasingh Chandel, MLA Nana Shamkule, Sanjay Dhote, Kirtikumar Bhangadiya, MLC Mitesh Bhangadiya, ZP president Devrao Bhongale and others were present during the programme.