RAJKOT: The arrest of four more persons in connection with the conspiracy to bump off Jamnagar-based businessman has revealed that Dawood Ibrahim’s brother Anees had taken the help of underworld don Ravi Pujari to hire the hitmen. 

 The four persons — Rizwana Sheikh, Ashwini Ranit, Vinod Hode and Satish alias   — were picked up from Mumbai on Sunday and brought to Rajkot where they were formally arrested. They were presented in the court which sent them to 10-day police custody for interrogation.
 
 According to police, Hode is a sharpshooter and had visited Jamnagar for conducting a recce of businessman Ashfaq Khatri’s movements. Ashwini, a close friend of Ramdas who was arrested with his three accomplices on February 25, had also visited Rajkot and Jamnagar. Rizwana was carrying a pistol when she had come to conduct a recce in Jamnagar. Ramdas had taken her along to avoid any suspicion.
 
 Police said that Anees had asked Pujari to provide his men to eliminate Khatri. “Ravi Pujari told Ramdas to contact   alias YB, who is in jail in Karnataka. Ramdas met Bachka in jail and the latter provided his men to execute the assassination,” said Anoopam Singh Gehlot, city police commissioner.
 
 “Vinod, Sachin and Rahul are also paid assassins who work for Bachka. The trio had visited Rajkot and Jamnagar but returned without killing Khatri. It was later that Ramdas came with his men,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Rajkot police had arrested Ramdas, Vinit Kundlik, Sandip Dayanand and Anil Dhilod near Kuvadva and seized arms from them. 
 
 “We sought their remand to know where these four persons stayed when they visited Rajkot and Jamnagar and whether more people are involved in this murder conspiracy,” said police.
 
 Investigations so far have revealed that Khatri was on Anees’s target over the former's burgeoning khaini (chewing tobacco) business in Dubai. Khatri's nephew Safdar was handling the khaini business there and had had made deep inroads into the sales of the brand sold by Anees. When Anees had asked him to join hands in the business, Safdar and Khatri had declined the offer. Irked by this, Anees had given Rs 20 lakh to Ramdas, a notorious paid assassin in Nasik to eliminate Khatri. 
 
