In what will be a welcome relief for land owners and buyers, land survey documents will be digitised soon. Officials say the department will upload the digitalised survey details of Pollachi, Coimbatore South taluk on the state government website. Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation, Valparai, Pollachi and Mettupalayam municipalities’ limits comprise 12,667 hectares of land, while villages and suburban areas (10 taluks) are located in 3.51 lakh hectares in the district. Once it is introduced, people can get to know details of their land across the district and download them from the survey department website.

 “We have completed the field measurement sketches (FMS) work for wet lands, dry lands and poromboke lands for Madukkarai taluk. The FMS details of Madukkarai taluk will be available to the public soon on the government website – http://eservices.tn.gov.in/eservicesnew/home.html. House and street data will be updated in the future. People can see their land sketches and download them from the website,” said C  , assistant director, land survey department, Coimbatore.
 
 He added that the department had completed the digitalisation of land survey documents for Coimbatore South, Mettupalayam and Pollachi Taluks. The digitalisation work has been going on for Perur, Kinathukadavu, Valparai, Madukkarai, Coimbatore North, Sulur and Annur taluks and this work also will be completed within a few months. 
 
 The field surveyors had been using tapes and chains to survey the lands. The department has now procured advanced equipment under the national land records modernisation programme (NLRMP) to survey lands with accuracy. The equipment will be deployed with the help of global positioning system (GPS).
 
 It was   Labton who conducted the trigonometrical survey at   in Chennai on April 10, 1802. He visited Coimbatore in March 1806 and surveyed lands in   using the trigonometrical survey method. According to sources, the British era records are kept safely in Chennai and Coimbatore. During 1920, the British government surveyed all places in Coimbatore district and these records are kept in the records room of the district collectorarte in Coimbatore. The department has started to digitalise the British era records and these will be uploaded on the website.
 
 
