NEW DELHI: India's refusal thus far to send any representative to attend the One Belt, One Road (OBOR) summit next week has not gone down well in Beijing, which believes New Delhi would be "isolated" with its absence from the massive transnational connectivity exercise. 

  China, however, emphasised that its decision against sending foreign minister   for a Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral meeting in Delhi was not retaliation against New Delhi allowing the Dalai Lama's visit to  . 
 
  "About the meeting that was to be held last month, as far as I know, the reason is not China," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman   told a media briefing in Beijing. Sources here said discussions were on between the three countries to set fresh dates for the meeting. China said they had no reason to undermine the RIC process, which is a Russian initiative. 
 
  However, China is clearly trying to send conciliatory signals to India. Foreign minister Wang Yi clarified on Thursday that Beijing would not "mediate" between India and Pakistan. Chinese warships are likely to pay a goodwill visit to India later this year. Bilateral trade is also up, aided by India's decision to ease iron ore exports. Chinese investment too has increased in India, particularly in the past couple of years. Despite this, political relations remain frayed. 
 
  "We expect India to tell Dalai Lama to behave like a guest, like a religious leader, and stop him and the government-in-exile from doing politics against the Chinese government," a Chinese official said. 
 
 "China hasn't retaliated against Indian people; we believe it is important that they be allowed to travel to Kailash Mansarovar. But we are hurt. The Dalai Lama episode is like a sting for bilateral relations. Even after the bite, the pain remains... ," the official added. China is keen to uphold the Brics (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) proces s, which is a Beijing initiative. NSA Ajit Doval is expected to travel to Beijing in June for a meeting of the NSAs of Brics countries. Chinese sources said Indian and Chinese leaders would get an opportunity to meet at the forthcoming SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organisation)summit in Astana, when India and Pakistan are expected to become full members. In order to join the SCO, India has had to accede to all the documents so far, including all the joint declarations. The 2016 SCO declaration clearly declares support for OBOR, not surprising since both the SCO and OBOR are China-led projects. 
 
  Wang Yi had asserted on April 18 that despite everything, India would have a presence in Beijing for the Belt & Road Summit. "We welcome the Indian representative as well as members of the business and finance community to take part in the summit," Wang said. Japan will be sending  , secretary general of Shinzo Abe's LDP, a surprise since like India, Japan has not signed up to OBOR and in fact is actively working to counter it. Russian President  , Pakistan PM Nawaz Sh arif and Cambodian PM Hun Sen, Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, Malaysian PM Najib Razak and Indonesian President Joko Widodo, along with the   chief and the UN secretary general will all be present at the summit. British PM Theresa May may be the most senior western leader to attend and the US is expected to send a senior functionary. 
 
  China-India relations have been on a downward spiral over the past couple of years, as India believes China's recent actions - its bid to block Delhi's NSG membership and UN sanctions on Masood Azhar - are testimony that it blocks India's rise. Chinese officials denied this, but stressed that India needs to be sensitive to Chinese concerns, particularly with regard to the Dalai Lama and Taiwan. 
 
 
