BENGALURU: The cyclical shake-up of caste politics that precedes every election seems to have begun early this time. The ruling Congress, which has hitherto relied heavily on chief minister Siddaramaiah’s Ahinda vote bank, has made its first foray into ‘social engineering’ in the state by targeting a major support base of BJP – the Lingayats.

 In 2013, a three-way division in the BJP vote proved to be the single biggest contributor to the Congress victory. According to senior party functionaries, the party took inspiration from former CM D Devaraj Urs and adopted a formula that shifted the spotlight from the two dominant communities in the state — Lingayats and the Vokkaligas — to the OBCs, Dalits and minorities. The move clicked and Siddaramaiah won the election. But now, he knows he has to go further to win back  , considering that BJP is now an amalgamated party with the “ghar wapsi” of major social group leaders like B S Yeddyurappa and B Sreeramulu.
 
 But will this venture reward Congress? Can the party create a dent in BJP’s vote bank by trying to create a division among the Lingayats, especially since it has not been able to garner the community’s support since the 1990s?
 
 Harish  , a political analyst based in Lingayat-dominated north Karnataka, believes the ruling party has scored brownie points tactically. “This strategy will hit two birds with one stone. One, it will help them counter the cultural-political (Hindutva) agenda of BJP and secondly, it will divide the Lingayats and weaken the political base of the party, especially in north Karnataka.”
 
 Dangling reservations under backward tag and minority status to Lingayats to woo a section of the community into Congress fold from BJP might work to an extent, said Ramaswamy.
 
 Political commentator S Mahadeva Prakash agrees: “BJP’s definite vote share is around 30%, and even if Congress manages to grab 5% of the votes, the saffron party may lose 30-40 seats. Except in 1994, Congress has consistently secured around 35% vote share in each election. And if it succeeds in snatching 5% of votes from BJP’s kitty, it can win with a comfortable margin.”
 
 A senior journalist, however, added that Congress did not have a credible Lingayat face to take the narrative forward. “The Congress move might turn into a blessing in disguise for BJP closer to the polls as they would use this to unite the Lingayats divided on sub-sect lines with the help of the powerful Lingayats mutts in the state,” the journalist said.
 
 “It is still an open debate whether the move will result in major cleavages within the community. Congress would need to do much more in terms of a positive and tangible outreach to the community,” said Prof Sandeep Shastri, political analyst.
 
 Old demand, new momentum
 
 A small section of Lingayats have been seeking “religious minority” status, separate from Hinduism, for a decade now but the demand gains credence with CM Siddaramaiah promising to make a recommendation to the Centre. According to an office-bearer of the Akhila Bharatha Veershaiva Mahasabha, the issue gained momentum when the proponents for delinking Veerashaiva from Hinduism exhorted their community members to opt for ‘Other’ in the column for religion during the 2011 census enumeration. That’s one reason the 2011 census records the Lingayat population at 56 lakh though the community makes up 17% of the population of Karnataka and is the largest in the state, followed by the Vokkaligas. The Lingayats are dominant in nearly 100 of the 224 assembly seats, mostly in north Karnataka, and have given the state nine chief ministers so far. Their main contention for separation from Hinduism, said a Lingayat legislator, is that while   is based on Manu dharma which discriminates people based on their birth, 12th-century social reformer Basavanna, who evolved Veerashaivism, fought against the caste system. Lingayatism is a non-Vedic, independent religion, they say. With independent status, Lingayats will be eligible for social security benefits and reservation in education and employment as applicable to religious minorities.
 
 
