MADURAI: After a day-long struggle and continuous persuasion the city police managed to peacefully evict the protesters who had been occupying the Tamukkam ground in the city for last seven days. From 3,000 protesters the number came down to just 150 by 8pm. 

 Although a large posse of police armed with lathis and safety gear were deployed throughout the day, senior police officers led by city police commissioner Shailesh Kumar Yadav camping at the spot managed to dissuade the protesters without using force. 
 
 While most of the protesters were convinced, mainly because the protest at Marina in Chennai was called off, a section of them still stayed put, blocking the Alagarkovil Road, one of key roads in the city. Madurai city police showed extraordinary patience and were able to convince the lot before ending the week long protest. 
 
 Tension prevailed throughout the day at Tamukkam as it appeared the police were readying themselves for a lathi charge just like their counterparts in other districts and cities in the state. However, police since morning were able to stop more protesters joining them by bringing all the roads leading to Tamukkam ground under their control. They also prevented essentials like eatables, foods and drinks in an attempt to pressurise the protesters. 
 
 The protest resulted in snarling of vehicular movements in and around Tallakulam throughout the day. Traffic diversions were made to ease the situation. Although the protests were withdrawn at many places in the district, the protesters in Madurai were skeptical. They demanded a permanent solution as most of them did not know that the state government’s measure was a permanent solution. “Police and politicians are trying to cheat us. We will not go away until a permanent solution for   has been arrived,” said S Senthilvelan, a college student. 
 
 On Monday, protesters did not want to talk not only to police personnel but also to the media. They also asked mediapersons to go away. Many residents were left confused on what was happening around them as many news channels were blacked out. 
 
 According to   General Welfare Association, Madurai branch, Arasu cable officials blacked out several news channels which was airing police lathi charges and clashes between protesters and police in Chennai and few other parts of the state. The association said that they were wrongly targeted by their customers for the blackout, which was relaxed only in the evening. 
 
