GHAZIABAD: A 42-year-old jalebi seller shot his neighbourhood couple after a tiff over a trivial issue of drying a mattress on their common boundary wall in New Shanti Nagar area of Vijayanagar, Ghaziabad, on Sunday. After killing the couple, the accused ran after their son, in his early twenties, and fired at him too. However, he was overpowered by policemen who reached the spot soon.

 According to police, the accused,  , was living alone in the house for the past 15 years. He used to make ‘jalebis’ for a living. On Sunday, his neighbour,   (48), wife of Balbir Gautam (53), kept a folding mattress to dry on the boundary wall of their house on their terrace. Since the boundary wall is common for both houses, half of the mattress was touching the accused’s terrace. The accused asked the woman to remove the mattress from his terrace and keep it elsewhere. The woman, however, refused to do so. This outraged the accused and he ripped apart the mattress. The argument escalated into a fight and the woman’s husband, Balbir, tried talking to the accused by entering his house. However, in a fit of rage, the accused shot him dead using an unlicenced country-made pistol. “The accused then climbed the stairs of the victim’s house where his wife was combing her hair and shot her too,” said Rajesh Kumar, acting SP (city).
 
 The two were rushed to MMG hospital where they succumbed to their injuries.
 
 Soon after, the police were informed by one of the neighbours. The accused, meanwhile, was roaming on the roads of the locality with the loaded pistol, chasing one of the sons of the couple. “The accused had gone crazy and could not manage his anger. He was trying to kill one of the two sons of the couple when we reached there. He even fired at him a couple of times but we intervened and caught hold of him,” said Neeraj Kumar, SHO,  .
 
 “The accused is an old resident of this locality and did not have any issue with anyone. It is very surprising as to how he did such a thing,” said the SHO.
 
 According to sources, the couple used to have minor arguments with the accused over improper disposal of garbage outside their house among others.
 
