PATNA: Time was when Ashok Rajak’s fingers would ache for days after doing ‘gela’ on the   of almost every patron in the  . “Back then my family would wash and   of pairs of white   for  ,” Rajak recalled on Friday.

 ‘Gela’ was a must on the sleeves of the kurtas those days. “Gela was a skilled job... We would use a small stone implement with a hole to insert our two two fingers into it... Using it we would crush the sleeves to make them ‘chunnidar’. Kurtas then used to have sleeves longer than the wearer’s arms as they used to be compressed after ‘gela’,” explained the washerman, a resident of Sabjibagh in Patna.
 
 Two decades or so on, the likes of Rajak do not have any special workload for Holi. For, people either have stopped wearing ‘mulmul ka kurta’ on Holi or buy readymade ones for the occasion.
 
 Decline in the business in this age of readymades and washing machines prompted Rajak to encourage his sons   and Deepak Kumar to study and opt for another profession. The 30-year-old and 26-year-olds are both grads. While the elder sibling is a contractual worker with the railways, the other one runs a betel shop.
 
 Old-timers have vivid memories of the mulmul kurtas with ‘gela’ on the sleeves. “Ours was a joint family. A week before Holi, kurtas-pyjamas of every male member used to be sent to our washerman for ironing and ‘gela’. We would wear them in the evening on Holi day,” recalled septuagenarian Gopal Shankar Prasad, a retired IAS official.
 
 Former Bihar DGP Abhayanand remebers his grandfather and father wearing such kurtas. “It was a must of sorts for the men belonging to zamindar families. I have not worn such kurtas though,” said the retired cop.
 
 According to Anees Anwar, manager of a kurta shop at Maurya Lok, readymade kurtas fly off the shelves in the run-up to Holi. “Not only white, even multi-colour kurtas are in high demand for the occasion,” he said, adding the kurtas at his shop are priced between Rs 500 to 700, depending on the quality of fabric.
 
 Anwar’s shop also sells cloths, in case you wish to get your kurta stitched. Khadi cloth is available for Rs 98 to Rs 200 per metre and white mulmul for Rs 112 per metre. There are, however, few takers for these cloths, Anwar told this newspaper.
 
 Branded wear shops have got fresh stocks of designer kurtas for men and women. “Kurtas with a palm printed on them and chikankari kurtas are selling like hot cakes this Holi,” said the manager of one such outlet in Bander Bagicha. 
 
 Chikankari kurtas for men are priced at this shop anywhere between Rs 1,499 to Rs 3,000 and those for women carry a price tag of Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000. Multi-colour stoles to pair with white-base kurtas are also quite popular among young women.
 
