NEW DELHI: Former Union finance minister   is in serious trouble with the   investigating an FDI proposal approved by him under UPA-I, and his son Karti named as an accused in the case. 

 Though the senior Congress member has not been named in the FIR, the CBI has said in as many words that it was he who “approved a deceitful and fallacious proposal”. CBI sources said   was “very much under the scanner in the present case”.
 
 Not just that, the agency is examining all   (FIPB) approvals during the period Chidambaram was finance minister, and in which Karti was directly or indirectly involved.
 
 While Chidambaram was finance minister in 2007-08, not only did the FIPB ignore the criminality in the proposal of INX Media, which allegedly paid Rs 3.50 crore to Karti, but “undue favour was shown to the company”, the agency said. It also said Karti influenced finance ministry officials “by virtue of his relationship with the then finance minister”.
 
 The CBI FIR against Karti and others “explained” how things were running during Chidambaram’s time in the finance ministry.
 
 The agency says that INX Media, on March 13, 2007, approached the FIPB chairman seeking approval for foreign investment up to 46.215% from three non-resident investors under the FDI route.
 
 The foreign investors named by INX were Dunearn Investment Pte Ltd, NSR PE Mauritius LLC, and New Vernon Pvt Equity Ltd, all three based in Mauritius.
 
 INX sought permission for issuing shares at face value of Rs 10 each, and its intention to make a downstream investment to the extent of 26% of the issued and outstanding equity share capital of INX News P Ltd.
 
 The CBI said the FIPB unit, while sending the brief to be put before the FIPB for its meeting scheduled on May 18, 2007, had clearly mentioned the inflow of FDI to the extent of Rs 4.62 crore. It asked the company to apply for separate FIPB approval for downstream payment to INX News.
 
 The recommendations were “approved” by Chidambaram, the CBI said. However, the request for downstream payment was not approved.
 
 “Contrary to the approval of FIPB conveyed through a letter dated May 31, 2007 and condition mentioned therein, INX Media deliberately and in violation of the conditions of the approval made a downstream investment to the extent of 26% in INX News without the specific approval of FIPB,” the CBI said.
 
 When the income tax department learnt about this in February 2008, it sought clarifications on the two issues from the FIPB. When the FIPB sought clarifications from INX Media, in order to wriggle out of the situation, it entered into a criminal conspiracy with Karti, promoterdirector of Chess Manage-ment Services, so as to get the issues resolved amicably by influencing public servants of the FIPB unit “by virtue of his relationship with the then finance minister”, the CBI said.
 
 Based on the clarifications suggested by  , INX Media tried to justify its action on both counts. 
 
 The agency said, after receiving a letter from INX Media, officials of yje FIPB unit, by virtue of influence exercised over them by Karti, “not only ignored the serious illegality on the part of INX Media on both the counts but also deliberately embarked on showing undue favour to   by abusing their official position, and advised the company to apply fresh for FIPB approval in respect of the downstream investment which had already been made by INX Media”.
 
 The FIPB officials also ignored the “request of department of revenue to investigate the matter”. The agency said that for the services rendered by Karti to INX Group through Chess Management in getting the issues scuttled, consideration in the form of payments were received against invoice raised on INX Media by Advantage Strategic Consulting P Limited (a company indirectly controlled by Karti).
 
