GUWAHATI: In what could be a game-changer in Nagaland's long struggle with insurgency, the   ( ) on Thursday called upon all Naga groups to come together on a single platform before the announcement of the peace settlement with the Centre - a process which started with a ceasefire agreement in 1997. 

 Anthony Yanthan,   (I-M) 'deputy kilonser' (minister), health, without naming any group, said in a statement to TOI, "Our past leaders have done their part and left us a rich legacy. Now it is our time to continue the journey. The   has set in; it is the right time for all of us to set good examples and inspire." 
 
 He added, "I believe there's nothing that cannot be sorted out in our   - not even the wounds and collateral damage borne by revolutionary times. The coming together of other NPGs (Naga political groups) on the right platform during these times would commemorate the 'final Naga Political solution' in a meaningful way."
 
 When contacted, Yanthan did not specify when the peace agreement is expected. He said the peace settlement "wouldn't take long". Hopes for a final peace settlement had started gaining momentum after the Centre signed the 'framework agreement' in August, 2015.
 
 The NSCN (I-M)'s Naga unification appeal comes a day after NSCN ( ), its arch-rival and the other breakaway faction of the parent NSCN, reiterated that without the key issue of "sovereignty", a dialogue or political process can never be contemplated. NSCN-K had in 2015 abrogated the ceasefire agreement with signed with the Centre in 2001.
 
 NSCN-K 'western military supervisor' Lt General Niki Sumi, in a statement said some sections may feel the abrogation of ceasefire has deferred the peace solution, but asserted that NSCN-K would "neither be party to any of the group's solutions nor shall we create any obstructions. It is purely the prerogative of the Government of India and the negotiating groups to hatch out any settlement as may be agreed upon."
 
 He cautioned that NSCN-K's commitment to the "Naga sovereign struggle" should not be blamed if a desired solution is not arrived at.
 
