PATNA: Chief minister   inaugurated four galleries of regional art, contemporary art, historical art and Bihari Diaspora at the Bihar Museum on Monday. 

 The museum was also reopened for visitors. It had been closed since March 28 this year for maintenance. The world-class museum was inaugurated by the CM on August 7, 2015 with just three galleries. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, the CM said all the pre-1764 artefacts would be shifted to Bihar Museum from Patna museum whereas the post-1764 artefacts, including the collection of many Buddhist manuscripts, sculptures and coins donated by Rahul Sankrityayan would remain there. 
 
 “We all understand the importance of Patna museum. We plan to develop it as a modern and contemporary museum. We are also deliberating that the ticket bought at one of the museums will be acceptable at both the places,” he said. Patna museum, the CM said, was the third one to be built in 1917 in the country after Kolkata and Chennai. 
 
 Talking about the difficulties faced by the state government in constructing a museum of international standards in Bihar, he said, “We went ahead with the decision amid protests. I do not understand why people protest such a decision that seeks to exhibit the state’s rich heritage.”
 
 The CM also referred to Patna high court’s questioning over the Rs500-crore budget for Bihar Museum. The matter was raised through a PIL in March 2015. “The budget actually comes to Rs517 crore. The court later dismissed the PIL,” he said. 
 
 Referring to the theft of 18 Buddha statues of 8th-9th century in 2006, Nitish said with the Bihar Museum in place, the artefacts would be provided better security and exhibited as per international standards. 
 
 Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said only those nations have a culture of museums that have a rich history and heritage. “People who visit the USA are not taken on museum visits because they have a history of only a few centuries whereas you will find Europe has the culture of museums visit for its rich heritage,” he said. 
 
 
