NAGPUR: “A dead body will tell you everything. But to understand it, a lawyer handling the case, particularly murder case, needs to be well acquainted with forensic science so as to ensure delivery of justice,” said Dr Manish  , officer on special duty (OSD) at the Super Speciality Hospital (SSH). 

 “Many a times, investigative agencies (cops) handling a death case may try to influence a lawyer by giving only their side of interpretation. A lawyer should verify the facts by analysing injury marks on the body before drawing any conclusion,” Dr Shrigiriwar said while addressing lawyers at the two-day symposium organized by the state law and judiciary department at the High Court auditorium. He delivered a talk on ‘Forensic law and its application’.
 
 On the sidelines of the symposium, Dr Shrigiriwar told TOI about a recent case where the police tried to secure a ‘favourable’ report. “A body was brought in with head injuries. According to police, the man had fallen from a ladder. Through the nature of injuries I was sure about physical violence. But the police insisted on the forensics report mentioning accidental death as the cause of death. I was also asked to visit the scene of crime; I visited the spot and was still firm on my observation. Following the post-mortem report, police had taken a lot of time to register the offence.”
 
 Dr Shrigiriwar also gave a presentation on various types of injuries and how lawyers can interpret them, which weapon may have been used, etc.
 
 He also talked about electrocution by describing a case wherein seven women from   were found dead at a farm. “No injury marks were found on their body. It looked like as if they were sleeping. A common arborescent mark — caused by high voltage electricity — was found at the backside of knee joint of all the victims. Through that mark, I came to the conclusion that lightening was the cause of death,” he said.
 
 Describing another case, Dr Shrigiriwar said, “A tiny piece of metal was found deep inside an injury on a body. Later, after police investigation it came out that the metal piece was the tip of the weapon used in the crime.” He also strongly advocated use of full body X-ray before performing post-mortem as many times it helps in finding the exact location of bullet(s) or other metal pieces.
 
 Dr Shrigiriwar told TOI, “During rape cases, the accused are still being asked to give semen test. However, a citizen should be aware that semen test has been banned. The same tests are now being performed using blood or hair of the accused.”
 
 
