AJMER: The   here rejected a petition to stay alternate road that connects the rear gate of Ajmer railway station saying the road is necessary for smart city and to curb  .

 The petitioners pleaded that alternate road will go from no construction zone of Topdara and Palbichala but court found there is no such obstruction mentioned in proposal.
 
 The decision brought big relief for Ajmer Development Authority (ADA) and chairman Shiv Shankar Heda said construction will start soon. 
 
 ADA prepared the alternate route from rear side of the Ajmer railway station to reduce traffic jam. “Railways has already started constructing rear side entrance of the station so that passengers will get alternate to exit either from first platform to last platform,” said  , divisional railway manager of Ajmer.
 
 ADA had prepared a plan of four-lane road from rear entrance which connects Shirnagar road. The road will have all facilities like street lights, dividers with trees on both sides. “The condition of station road is so worse that it takes about half an hour to cross three hundred meters. There are buses, tempos and heavy vehicles as well as pool of passengers gushing out from the railway station,” said an official
 
 But, there are parties who moved court demanding to stay the process of alternate route from rear side of railway station.
 
 “Palbichala lake is situated near the proposed road and ADA will construct pillars near it which will become a disturbance. The place falls under no construction zone,” said the petition. Petitioners also cited ruling of Rajasthan high court in support of their plea.
 
 But special advocate Uma Shanker Agarwal stated that the proposed road project was made after examining every aspect. Looking to increasing population of Ajmer, it is necessary to have alternative route from railway station for traffic control. The proposed route will also save money and time of people. ADA denied of any proposal for making this route on Palbichhala lake and the road will move to Anasagar escape channel.
 
 After hearing on this issue, the court declined to stay the project as well as to accept the petition for further hearing and dismissed it in favour of ADA. ADA officials said they will soon start work for four-lane route from rear side of railway station to divert traffic from Shrinagar road.
 
