Garbine Muguruza's first title, following her triumph at the French Open in 2016, came at   earlier this month. The 23-year-old, striking looks and sizzling firepower, has won a total of four tournaments so far in her career. Two of which are Grand Slams. Dazzling highs and disquieting dry runs.

 Following her success at the  , the Caracas (Venezuela)-born Spaniard, said she would approach tournaments with a different mindset now, having learned from her struggles of the last year. Muguruza said she would get back to the practice court, work hard and not be weighed down by pressure. It was no different for Muguruza in 2015, where after she made her first major final on the lawns of SW19, she slumped in four successive tournaments, clearly struggling with the weight of expectation.
 
 Muguruza, whose mother is from Venezuela, is older and more appreciative of her success this time. "It's incredible I have joined this historical club," she said.
 
 
 
 
 
 Emotionally I felt that the French Open was bigger. It was the first one and a closer tournament for me, because it is the French Open, its clay court and you know the story. But Wimbledon is a different story. I felt close when I was playing the (2015) final for example, because you're in the final. I didn't know if I was going to have another chance, I thought hopefully I'll have. So to be back and you know make it, I was able to win it here finally, it's a different feeling. It felt that it was bigger when I won the French Open because it was like, 'Oh! I won a Grand Slam!' I didn't do anything special after the French Open, after winning the tournament. I just had a nice dinner with my team and family, but I was so exhausted that I went to sleep early and couldn't stay up. I felt much better, less tired, after Wimbledon.
 
 
 
 It seems like a lot of things were going through my mind at that point. Actually I was expecting that, I was ready to face a difficult situation. I was ready to be 5-1 up or 1-5 down, I expected to face set points. I had Venus in front of me, I know that she is a good player. I was not worried. I was like if I lose this set I have two more. If I stuck it out here, I might turn it around. That's what I did. I just played the ball.
 
 
 
 I would like to. I've said before that when you win people think it's so easy, but it's not so easy to handle it and probably I expect myself to always play so good. After you win people expect you to always play so good. When that doesn't happen, it's hard to deal with. I think the best way is to be humble, go back to the court, start working hard and look ahead at the hard court season. To always work hard, but not thinking that now I'm going to play so good, incredible all the time.
 
 
 
 I think everybody, well not everybody, I can't speak for everybody, but for a lot of people, they have this love/hate relationship (with the game). It's hard in defeat, it's very nice when you win. It's combination of things (that you go through) and I also felt like that. When you win everything is so beautiful and when you don't it's not so, everything is darker. You need to turn things around.
 
 I'm still searching for what I would do when I'm not in love with tennis, in order to make myself feel better. It's hard because I've played tennis since I was 3. All I know is tennis and tennis. My family is super passionate about the sport and I love it too. I love to cook. I like music and try also to be like a regular girl/woman.
 
 
 
 That's talking in my experience only. That is the case going by my experience. I don't know what it is to be No.1. I know what it feels to win a Grand Slam to have this trophy and to always train hard, to win seven matches in a row. It has something special to it. Hopefully I will be No.1 one day and then I can compare the two, but for now I would have to say that.
 
 
 
 I get asked this question a lot now and I understand why. For now, at Wimbledon, she replaced my regular coach Sam (Sumyk) who is with his wife as she's having a baby. Conchita is always there for us, she's   captain,   captain. She's always there to help us. It's for Wimbledon only, we'll see what happens later.
 
 
 
 That was an emotional moment for me. I read a lot of stuff about 'Garbine breaks down' and stuff like that. I'm like 'I didn't break down'. I'm just human you know. I felt pressure there and I lost. I felt like I had a good tournament even though I didn't reach that far in the draw.
 
 I was like I'm going to learn from this. I wanted to change the page, especially with the whole grasscourt season coming up. I felt good. I told myself, 'forget about the French Open' now. Next year at the French Open, I'm going to go out there and do it better.
 
 
 
 I don't think anyone is going to dominate so long and so much like Serena. Because it's incredible. But I just want to go out there in all Grand Slams and perform well and hopefully win the trophy.
 
 It's simple, but that's my goal.
 
 That's how I see it for now.
 
 
