NAGPUR: To map the huge unexplored, deep seated mineral deposits, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has taken up air borne or aero-geophysical survey using special two-seater aircraft with modern equipment. The systems will pick up information from the air about concealed minerals like manganese, copper, lead, zinc and coal etc.

 The project was launched by minister of state for power, coal, new and renewable energy and mines Piyush Goyal via video conferencing from New Delhi on Friday morning. The two aircraft took off from Dr Babasaheb International Airport in Nagpur and flew over the district for the inaugural run.
 
 GSI additional director general, central region, N Kutumbarao told TOI the project will use three aircraft. Two of these have already arrived and would be stationed at   airport. The first phase of the project will be completed in three years with two lakh square kilometre area being covered. The aircraft will fly at a height of 80m so the geophysical sensors, magnetometer and gamma ray spectrometer abroad pick up signals from underground.
 
 A consortium of service providers led by M/s McPhar International (India) with partners EON Geosciences Inc. (Canada) and Kiwi Air Ltd. ( ) started the aero-geophysical data acquisition from Nagpur airport. The other two selected agencies;   (Kazakhstan) with Helica s.r.l (Italy) and Secon Pvt Ltd (India), and   (India) along with  . (Canada) and Goldak Airborne Surveys (Canada) will start operations in the third week of April.
 
 GSI has been carrying out multi-sensor aero-geophysical surveys in different geological terrains of India since 1965. Till date about 23.88 lakh sq km area, with around 15 lakh line km, has been covered with various survey specifications under different projects. The study of aero-geophysical surveys has led to the discovery of mineral deposits like Kayar and Aladahalli in Karnataka, and Golapalle in Andhra Pradesh. The survey has also delineated significant uranium in Nalgonda, Andhra Pradesh.
 
 In the 1st phase, magnetic-gradiometric and radiometric surveys is being taken up by engaging Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) for data acquisition, processing, integration and interpretation. It will be followed by high resolution electromagnetic, gravity, gravity-gradiometric and magnetic surveys in selected smaller blocks.
 
 The government wants to identify mineral potential areas, and attract private investment in mineral exploration using the geophysical data.
 
