KOLKATA: With the sun beating down and no cloud cover in sight, the mercury rolled up to the season’s highest on Tuesday to 37.3°C. Kolkatans dashed for shade and cool drinks even as office-goers and school children had to endure the intense heat that is not likely to relent very soon.

 It could remain just as hot over the next 48 hours, warned the Met office, though the minimum humidity slid appreciably to 16% from 34% on Monday. There would be no relief unless a thundershower strikes, it said, but no such possibility is round the corner yet.
 
 Kolkata scurried for cover in the afternoon as the mercury soared to the season’s highest so far. The only saving grace was the sliding humidity that made it a tad more bearable than Monday. But the  , though uncomfortable, was not unusual at this time, pointed out G K Das, director,  . “Unless we have thundershowers, the temperature will keep rising. We are approaching peak   so the stifling heat will persist,” he said.
 
 Exactly a year ago, a heat wave swept Kolkata. It had been triggered by scorching westerly wind from central India and Chota Nagpur Plateau. The city, in fact, was warmer in April than in May last year, something which has rarely happened. This time, the westerly winds are not yet active. “One of the reasons for the rise in temperature now is ground radiation. Also, moisture-laden winds have not been flowing in, cutting out the formation of rain-bearing clouds,” said Das. But he added a cloud cover could provide some relief from the heat in the course of the week.
 
 “We expect a marginal drop in temperature once the clouds form,” said Das. Kolkata receives 2-3 thundershowers in April and around the same number of squalls in May. This month, however, it is yet to be lashed by a single one. Last month was different, though. It was the wettest March in a decade with five squalls.
 
 On Tuesday, the temperature actually felt like 40°C. RealFeel is a measure of how the heat feels on the skin and is a unique composite of temperature, humidity, wind, sunshine intensity, cloudiness, precipitation and elevation.
 
 Children turned out to be the worst sufferers in the heat. With term-breaks having ended, most schools are set to remain open for at least a month more. So far, no school has preponed its summer vacation either. “We are going through a term break. Only students of Class X and Class XII are attending school between 8am and 11am. The heat-wave has not altered our schedule,” said principal of Apeejay School, Rita Chatterjee.
 
 
