KOCHI: The   on Monday denied bail to Sunil Kumar alias 'Pulsar' Suni, the first accused in the kidnapping and   case of a young Malyalam actress.

 Declining to grant bail, the court accepted prosecution’s argument that granting bail to Suni now would affect a proper trial and that there is a chance of witnesses being influenced.
 
 In the order, the court also pointed out that it is clear from the records that the statement given by the witness mentions specifically about Suni.
 
 Prosecution had informed the court during the hearing that investigation into the conspiracy involving actor Dileep, who is the 11th accused in the case, is ongoing.
 
 Suni had destroyed evidence after committing the crime and he had been in hiding from the police, prosecution argued. If he is granted bail, he would attempt to destroy evidence, including scientific evidence, either directly or indirectly. He is accused in several cases and has close connections with those working in the film field. As the witnesses in the case are from the same field, chance of destroying the evidence or influencing the witnesses if let out on bail is very high, prosecution submitted.
 
 At the hearing, prosecution had also opposed Suni’s contention that he was only accused of attempting to rape along with humiliating the actress. The seriousness and nature of the crime have to be considered. The offence of gangrape was attracted as per the circumstances of the crime, the court was told. Accepting the contentions raised by prosecution, the court dismissed Suni’s bail plea.
 
 Meanwhile, the high court will consider Dileep’s bail plea on Tuesday. It is his fifth petition seeking a bail in the case in which he is accused of giving ‘quotation’ (contract) for the abduction and sexual assault on the actress. In the hearing of an anticipatory bail plea filed by Dileep’s wife and actress Kavya  , prosecution informed the court that she was not an accused and that police does not intend to make her a witness in the case. Following prosecution’s submission, the court has disposed of her pre-arrest bail plea.
 
