NAGPUR: The National Green Tribunal, Western Zone bench, Pune, has dismissed the petition against Vidarbha Cricket Association’s (VCA) Jamtha stadium. The tribunal observed the petition was not filed within five years of the stadium being operational, so it became time barred.

 Farmers organization- Jai Javan Jai Kisan through secretary Arun Wankar, activists TH Naidu and Ankita Shah had filed petition against VCA and nine more respondents. The petitioners alleged VCA did not obtain environment clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC)/state’s   and consent to establish and operate from the   (MPCB) for construction of the stadium.
 
 The NGT not looked into the petitioners’ allegations and prayers. The NGT said, “Section 15 of the NGT Act, which deals with the application for restitution/restoration of the environment, reads as no application for grant of any compensation or relief or restitution of property or environment under this section shall be entertained by the tribunal unless it is made within a period of five years from the date on which the cause for such compensation or relief first arose.”
 
 The NGT added, “It is the case of the applicants that the applicants started making RTI inquiries regarding various illegalities relating to   from the year 2013 and onwards and after having gathered information from the MPCB that the VCA Stadium has no environmental clearance from the State, the applicants decided to approach NGT and therefore, the present case is well within the limitation.”
 
 “The present application which ought to have been filed within a period five year from the date on which cause of action for restoration first arose i.e. in the year 2008 has been filed on April 11, 2016. The application is thus found to be beyond the prescribed period under section 15 of the NGT Act- 2010 and therefore, cannot be entertained, it being time barred. The present application therefore deserves to be rejected,” the NGT ordered.
 
 Convener of Jai Javan Jai Kisan Prashant Pawar told TOI meeting will be organized with the members and activists soon to decide the further route. “There are more irregularities in the case like   sanction, 15% open space not handed over to concerned authorities etc,” he said.
 
