PUNE:   sweet gabbers were   on Sunday for allegedly stealing   of pedestrians by giving them a Jadu ki jhappi ( ).

 The suspects, all of them businessmen, hugged people after seeking small favours such as seeking address of a shop or a house. Police claimed to have solved as many as 11 cases of such thefts with the arrest of the trio.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Pravin Mundhe said the police had arrested Aakash Balu Dhumal (20) and Rohan Balram Jadhav (22), both residents of Hadapsar, and Akshay Bharat Kantale alias Jagtap (21) of Manjari village. “Two policemen — B M Musale and S P Polekar — nabbed two of the suspects after spotting them frisking and hugging a man on Kondhwa-Bibvewadi road on Sunday. They were arrested red-handed,” Mundhe said.
 
 The man, Munna Rakkisun Jaiswal of Bibvewadi, was walking on the road on Sunday afternoon when the two suspects — Dhumal and Jadhav — accosted him. The suspects, who came on a motorcycle, asked him an address. When Jaiswal gave them the direction, the duo told him “thank you” and hugged him. The policemen saw the suspects stealing Rs6,000 from Jaiswal’s pocket and took them to the police station.
 
 A team comprising senior inspector Mohan Shinde, inspector Vijay Deshmukh, sub-inspector Rajendra Honkar and others quizzed the suspects. The suspects revealed the name of Jagtap and he was rounded up. The police first recovered two motorcycles and then Rs2.22 lakh. Two cellphones bought with the stolen cash were also seized.
 
 Mundhe said the suspects were active from May this year and allegedly committed offences under the jurisdictions of Market Yard (six offences), Sahakarnagar, Cantonment, Bharati Vidyapeeth, Bhosari and Deccan police. “The suspects had stolen cash of 11 pedestrians after accosting them and asking them an address,” he said. In all, they had stolen Rs4.96 lakh. The police said the suspects were party buffs. They visited upscale hotels and exhausted the stolen cash. They had deposited Rs2.22 lakh in a credit cooperative society at Hadapsar, which the police recovered.
 
 One of the suspects has a sugarcane juice centre at Hadapsar, while the other two are vegetable vendors. The three are school dropouts and wanted to earn some fast bucks. When asked how the suspects developed their modus operandi, Shinde said the suspects once spotted a man coming out of an ATM kiosk in the Market Yard area. After he kept the cash in a pocket of his trousers, the suspects greeted him warmly and succeeded in stealing the cash. 
 
 “They continued to keep an eye on the pockets of the pedestrians. If they looked heavy, the suspects hugged the man concerned after asking an address and stole the money,” Shinde said.
 
 
