CHANDIGARH: In a first-of-its-kind action, the   Education department has put 4,780 private schools across the state on notice for not uploading the list of seats for students of EWS category.

 According to the provisions of Section 134-A of the Haryana Education Rules, schools are required to furnish the details of vacancies reserved by them for the EWS category. The school managements are required to provide the details through the DEOs of their area or through the website. The vacancies are to be filled through a mechanism developed by the state education department.
 
 While uploading the 100-page district-wise list of schools on department’s website, director (secondary education) S S   also uploaded a common notice directing the DEOs and district primary education officers (DPEOs) to ensure the service of notices to the schools falling in their area in this regard.
 
 The Federation of Private Schools, Haryana, on the other hand has termed the action as dictatorial. Federation chairman Kulbhushan Sharma said it was a deliberate attempt to close private schools so that the students could be shifted to government schools.
 
 Additional chief secretary (education) P K Das said the school managements had been given 10 days to respond to the query why the government should not withdraw the NOCs issued to them for functioning. “We have already initiated the process. Once the deadline expires, we will ask the CBSE and Board of School Education, Haryana, to withdraw their affiliation. Schools will have to follow the guidelines,” said Das.
 
 On the other hand, Sharma reiterated the stand of private schools. “Firstly, this is not the correct list as more than 2,400 private schools have already furnished the details, which could not be updated by the education department due to technical snags. Secondly, this is another exercise by the state government to fleece schools as our issues related to reimbursement go unattended. We have no problem in teaching students but the government too should fulfil its obligation. What stops the government in paying us on the basis of cost per student incurred to teach a student of government school,” he said.
 
