With the weather being perfect for trekking, almost every weekend in the foreseeable future is likely to be planned for by adventure junkies in the city. While being away from all forms of technology is a popular reason people take up hiking and camping in the wild, there are times when the very same tech come in very handy. Speaking about the benefits of being tech-savvy on treks, Komal Shivdasani, a seasoned trekker from Bengaluru, says, “While it is true that high-tech gadgets make life easier in the outdoors, their most important use comes in helping us stay away from many dangers, and in extreme cases, even staying alive. It also helps in focusing all your energy in trekking and exploring, without having to worry about the the other mundane aspects to it.” Here are a few must-haves while venturing off into the wild, especially for the lesser-experienced ones...

 
 
 Need to start a fire for cooking? No problem. There are battery-powered campstoves that uses heat to charge the battery pack. Bonus: Charge your devices via USB with the battery pack.
 
 
 
 What can get more convenient than having hands-free navigation with built-in GPS, altimeter, barometer, compass and more. There are even watches that can wirelessly connect to heart rate monitors and smartphones.
 
 
 
 How do these work? Fill the bag with water and press hard on the foot pump to get high-pressured showers. If you are a warm-shower person, simply leave the water pouch in the sun!
 
 
 If you are a stickler for clean drinking water, then this is a must. They come with UV caps, which when filled and shaken, make the water drinkable. They can also be recharged via a USB.
 
 
 
 There are plenty of solar-charged lanterns that can produce 60-80 lumens of light, more than enough for camping needs.
 
 
 
 While this doesn’t improve your   in any way, who wouldn’t love to hear soothing music when it’s just you and Mother Nature? Choose from any of the tons of rough and tough portable speakers that are available in the market.
 
