PUNE: The doctors’ community fighting against the unjust imposition of sections of the   on three doctors and a nurse arrested in a case of alleged medical negligence case feel the incident could make the medicos more defensive in handling emergency cases.

 “The medical community in the city is relieved to know that the doctors have been released on bail. I personally feel sorry that they (the arrested doctors and nurses) had to spend three nights in the custody for no fault of theirs as this was a pure accident. We surely feel sorry for the life lost and sympathize with her family but nothing better could have been done in the circumstances,” said orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagli, the chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s hospital wing.
 
 He said one of the doctors arrested was not even involved in the management of this patient. “He was consulted over telephone when he was doing a surgical case in some other hospital. Now, doctors will think ten times before giving any telephonic advice to their colleagues, leave aside patients. Such events will certainly put the medicos on the back foot and they will resort to more defensive practice,” he added.
 
 Sharing Bhagli’s view, senior anaesthetist H K Sale, the president of the Indian Society of Anaesthesia, Pune branch, said, “Now doctors, especially anaesthetists, will think twice before giving any advice over phone. The telemedicine, an upcoming branch across India, will now take a beating because this incident might send a wrong signal to doctors involved in telemedicine, particularly during emergency.”
 
 Mohan Joshi, the president of the  , Pune branch, said, “I see myself in the arrested doctors’ shoes and feel scared as the emergency medicines they used are being used routinely to save critical patients. The incident will only force the doctors to practice more defensively now.”
 
 Medico-legal expert Pratibha Kane said, “Who will be held accountable for this gross failure of justice? Doctors take immense risk when treating every patient because each drug has known complications. No doctor, however good, can predict anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction which any drug can induce in some patients. Who do doctors look to for their protection if police act in such irresponsible manner?”
 
 IMA’s medico-legal cell head, paediatrician Jayant Navarange, said, “I feel, to create a good atmosphere between law enforcers and medicos, lawyers, public prosecutors, doctors associations and medical college superintendent/dean, medical council and responsible media representatives should come with open mind on one platform and formulate guidelines for stakeholders based on law and   directives.”
 
 Protocol maintained
 
 N J Karne, the president of  , said no doctor would treat patient with wrong intention of causing injury.
 
 “The injection given to the victim to provide relief from acute and severe pain is common. The reaction patients get after receiving this injection is well-known, but it is very rare. Most of the injections used in medical practice can give such reaction,” he said.
 
 He said, “In the instant case, the patient was taking the injection for 12 years in the maternity hospital. So, there was no question of taking her allergy test. The accusation that the victim’s death had occurred after she was given many injections is not correct. All injections given were of standard protocol.”
 
 
