HYDERABAD: Courts have started cracking the   who have   People who have challans pending against them for a long time and have failed to clear them, are being levied an additional fine, of a minimum of 15%.

 For the past few months, the Hyderabad police has also been filing charge sheets in courts against motorists who have multiple challans pending against them.
 
  While filing charge sheets, Hyderabad traffic police have sought jail terms for repeat offenders and the courts have for their part sent some motorists to prison. Now, a penalty is being levied for failure to pay  . “This is being done to improve compliance. Over the last few days, we have seen an increase in compliance on the part of motorists who have been clearing dues. This has happened after courts started imposing additional penalty for  ,'' Hyderabad joint commissioner of police (Traffic) A Ravinder said.
 
 With the new development, motorists will be made to not only pay long-pending arrears, but also an additional penalty based on the court's discretion in the matter.
 
 Traffic police, on an average, issue over 10,000 challans every day for motorists violat ing traffic rules. Non-pay ment of e-challans by motori sts has been an issue for long.
 
 Normally , around 10-20% of people issued e-challans de fault on paying fine.
 
 Police personnel are giv ing a month's time before tak ing further action against ve hicle owners.
 
 Courts have already start ed issuing non-bailable war rants (NBWs) against motori sts who fail to appear them de spite receiving summons. Ide ally, a motorist has to pay challan within a week after he or she receives a notice, which will also has a photo to prove the traffic rule violation.
 
 Stickers pasted on some vehicles
 
 Traffic police have also started pasting stickers on vehicles which have multiple pending challans. In some cases, traffic cops on the field, during   the defaulters, and make the motorist pay the fine by sending them to the nearest MeeSeva centre or compounding booths
 
