MARGAO: In the tiniest state with a population of around 15 lakh, where most of the socio-economic indicators are far better than the national average and which has the highest per capita in the country of Rs 2.99 lakh, there lies another story of a Goa that struggles to give its children bare minimum facilities for primary education.
 
  Around 70km from the state capital at   in   taluka, in a ramshackle one-room tenement runs the government primary school that accommodates students from classes I to IV. Not that there are many to accommodate: Six students—three boys and three girls—two each in classes I, II and IV. There are no students in class III. And to oversee them, teach them all the subjects and also manage the school is a lone teacher.
  
  “What else can I do? There is no other option,” the para teacher who was substituting for the regular teacher who was on leave, when TOI visited the school recently, said.
  
  There is more to the school. In the absence of basic seating facilities, like benches and desks, the students are compelled to sit on the bare floor. Seeing their plight, locals recently provided the school some mats made out of empty cement bags for the students to sit.
  
  During the monsoon, the plight of the students is worse. They sit in a room with leaking Mangalore-tiled roofs and damp walls and leeches enter the classroom and often attack the students. But, locals say, this has been the situation for past many years, with the state education department doing nothing worthwhile to improve the situation.
  
  What’s more, the students have also been deprived of the mid-day meal scheme of the state government as the low enrollment renders the scheme “unaffordable” and “unfeasible”. The students, sources said, are provided with sweets and chocolates which pass of as mid-day meals.
  
  Director of education G P Bhat, when contacted, appeared to be ignorant of the lack of desks and benches. “Is that so? I will make sure that there are enough benches and desks within the next two-three days,”   told TOI on Tuesday.
  
  Asked about the sorry condition of the one-room tenement that serves as the primary school, Bhat said, they were ready to shift to some better location if any villager offers rooms on rent.
  
  When questioned if there was any proposal under consideration to construct a primary school building, Bhat said that any such proposal was economically not viable. “There are only six students. At the most, we can get another 3 students. Such a huge investment for only a few students is not workable,” Bhat said.
  
  While this is the case of primary education in this village, facilities for high school education are non-existent. Once the students complete their primary education, they have to walk kilometers down the hill to get to the nearest school—Dayanand Bandodkar high school in Gokuldem, Quepem, or government high school in Gaondongrim, Canacona—if they want to continue with their formal education, that is.
  
  While only 12 persons from this village have passed matriculation, barely three have managed to get through the HSSC exams. There is not a single graduate in this village.
  
  “The forest is dense. The children have to leave from here well before 7am if they are to reach in time for their classes. By the time they return home after school, it is well past 3pm. And if there are any special classes after school, they reach home by dusk, which is very risky proposition as it gets dark in the dense woods by sunset,” a villager, Rohidas Velip, told TOI. It gets riskier during the monsoon as the pathways invariably get flooded and the rocks become slippery.
  
  Not surprisingly, the drop-out rate of students in this village is quite high.
  
  “I couldn’t take it anymore and decided to drop out of school in class VI,” said 15-year old Gautam.
  
  Says  , a class XII student, who takes this road to get to her higher secondary school in  .
  
  “I take the first bus that reaches Challim by 7.15am to get to Balli. I have to walk for at least 40 minutes to reach Challim from here. The bus makes a return trip at 3.15pm, and there are no buses after that. I then stay overnight at my relatives’ there,” she said.
