GURGAON: Worried about disruption in water supply in the region like last year due to Jat agitation, the state irrigation department has written to deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Jhajjar and Sonipat to make arrangement for the security of the   to ensure uninterrupted water supply to Gurgaon and NCR.

 During the Jat agitation in February 2016 protesters had damaged the   in Karnal and Khubru water head in Panipat that channel water from   to Kakroi. Kakroi, 90 km from Grugaon, in Sonepat supplies Yamuna water to Gurgaon, and parts of Delhi and Haryana. Due to this water supply to Gurgaon was hit for 10 days. Two hundred cusecs of water, equal to two days’ supply, was wasted and Gurgaon’s sole water carriers — NCR and GWS channels – ran dry.
 
 Water from Kakroi is pumped into three canals — the   (GWS) and NCR, which supply water to Gurgaon, and the Carrier Lined Canal (CLC) that caters to Delhi.
 
 To avoid replay of last year, irrigation department has alerted administration in advance and requested for security of water channel. “We have requested deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Sonipat and Jhajjar to make arrangement for security and safety of water channel in view of Jat agitation that started from Sunday,” said Shive Singh, superintend engineer, irrigation department, Gurgaon.
 
 He said department has asked for police protection for the water channel as in case of damage it will affect the water supply of entire region, but they are also monitoring the water channel at various location through their field officers. “To deal with any crisis situation we have created a buffer for few days,” said Singh adding that fearing damage to the channel they have already stored water for few days. Learning a lesson from last year crisis authorities are not willing to take any risk.
 
 Irrigation department in its letter to district administrations says in lieu of Aarakshan Andolan as anticipated in Haryana from January 29 you are requested to direct police to give necessary protection for NCR channel, so that agitators will not be able to damage any government property and authorised water can reach to tail of NCR Channel (HUDA Water Treatment Plant at Chandu, Gurgaon) for drinking purpose.
 
 Deputy commissioner of Gurgaon Hardeep Singh said, “Ground staff was directed to keep watch on water channel and report if they found anything suspicious. We are also conducting night patrolling in sensitive areas.” He said administration is making all efforts to avoid any untoward incidents.
  
 
