PUNE: An   (AI) aircraft with 152 passengers on board overshot the runway while landing in Pune on Friday evening. Fortunately, the Airbus A-321 (VT-PPA) came to a stop safely and everyone on board was evacuated using emergency chutes. Three passengers reportedly suffered minor bruises during the evacuation.

 The accident happened when the Delhi-Pune plane, AI-849, touched down at the   here around 6.30pm. “The aircraft overshot the runway. The plane halted safely and all passengers were evacuated using chutes. All passengers are safe. The right main wheel went into the ‘kutcha’ area, called runway excursion. All the wheels are intact,” an AI official in Delhi said.
 
 Another AI official at the Pune airport said that no passengers had sustained injuries. “The plane had overshot the runway and all passengers are safe. There has been no tyre burst. The matter will surely be investigated,” he said.
 
 Sources in the airport said as many as four flights had been diverted, mainly to Mumbai, following the incident. One of them was a Delhi-Pune Indigo flight which was diverted to Hyderabad. Till late at night, the flight had not arrived in Pune from Hyderabad.
 
 “The   flight was finally removed from the runway at around 8.15pm. Till then, the runway was kept closed. At around 8.25pm, the air traffic controller said that the runway was clear and that normal flight operations could begin. Minutes after the announcement, a Jet Airways aircraft landed,” an official at the airport said.
 
 At the Pune airport, relatives of the passengers presented a picture of worry and anxiety. The passengers too had fear written on their faces as they began trooping out of the airport around 8.30pm.
 
 Arvind Gadad, who was waiting along with his wife for his 64-year-old mother Sunanda, said, “This is the first time she is flying. The flight landed at 6.22pm and the evacuation began at 6.30pm. Right now, she is waiting for her luggage at the terminal building and it has already been an hour and a half since the evacuation. I tried to talk to her on her cellphone but she was too frightened to even speak. However, she told me that she suffered a minor injury on her arm while jumping from the plane onto the chute.”
 
 Sunanda, on exiting from the airport, said, “There was a burning smell on the runway. The crew asked us to run far once we were out of the plane. ‘Bhaago, bhaago’ (run, run), they said. But I must say that they were with us all the time and helped us a lot. I had gone on the Chardham yatra. I think the almighty has saved us.”
 
  was all smiles on seeing his son   come out of the airport. “The last few hours were scary. It is so relieving that he is safe,” said   as he hugged his son.
 
 Kunal said panic had broken out on the flight. “Everything was fine after the flight took off from Delhi. However, things changed in a flash on landing. Some passengers were very scared and others too shocked to react. Even I was scared because something like this rarely happens. Children were crying and women and senior citizens were frightened,” he said.
 
 Directorate general of civil aviation chief B S Bhullar and his head of safety Lalit Gupta could not be reached for comment.
 
 Earlier this year, the Indian Air Force (IAF) had asked airlines to station aircraft removal kits and train personnel to operate them at its airports. The IAF directive came on the backdrop of sensitive defence airstrips often getting blocked by planes of scheduled carriers that get stuck there due to technical reasons. IAF had warned that if airlines fail to comply, their permission to operate flights to IAF airports like Jammu, Srinagar, Pune and Chandigarh could be cancelled this summer.
 
 ‘The landing was shaky’
 
 Middle-aged Prasad Kulkarni was one of the passengers on the AI-849 Delhi-Pune flight that overshot the runway and skid. Speaking to TOI, he said, “I think there was some misjudgment on the pilot’s part. The landing was shaky and he was perhaps in a dilemma about what to do. The brakes were applied and the plane slowed down a bit, but it suddenly began to roll at high speed on the runway. The cabin crew too did not know what was happening. The plane came very close to the net at the farthest end of the runway. When the brakes were applied again, the plane skid. The right rear tyre went off the runway and got stuck in the soil. The plane literally turned around and we felt a jerk. We could also smell burnt rubber.”
 
 Kulkarni said the crew asked passengers to remain calm. “The next minute, the crew asked us to evacuate immediately and the chutes were opened. We were asked to jump. Some passengers in wheelchairs obviously refused to jump. One of them said he would rather die than jump. After a while, stairs were brought and those in wheelchairs were brought down. For around 45 minutes before this, the cabin crew said that the flight was set to land, but it didn’t.”
 
