

 
 
 
 There has been a ratcheting up of the issue of  , whipping up of hysteria, which is having a chilling effect on minorities. It's a phenomenon we are seeing across the world. The difference is that unlike in the case of Duterte in Philippines, Erdogan in Turkey or   in the US, with the top leaders making outrageous statements, you will never see that of PM Modi.So he has never come under the scanner internationally the way others have. The challenge here (in India) is that there are a number of `satellites' however, who make those statements.
 
 
 
 
 I hope it has an impact, it's the right thing to do and he should have done it much earlier. Given his kind of larger than life status, it is very important he speaks out. He may have a party or ideological allegiance but end of the day, he's the head of government.
 
 
 
 
 The beef ban has many dimensions. We are very concerned with two -the extent to which it affects livelihoods, and discriminatory nature of the action. Events of the past six months have been extremely worrying.Ten or more lynchings since April of this year, almost all Muslims. It is clearly a discriminatory law, as it impacts Muslims and Dalits.
 
 
 
 
 We are all for law enforcement but not for selective enforcement. Take a broader look at the human rights violations in India: 40,000 cases reported against adivasis, violence against women, lakhs of under trials in prisons ­ the list is long. When there are already so many human rights violations in the country, why create new challenges?
 
 
 
 
 There is a huge difference: mob violence is not new to India but where is the government, that is the issue for us. Are they meeting their state obligations, both to the Constitution and to international commitments? A strong kind of position by the government that this is unacceptable, is missing.That is what we are calling for, not a wavering stance that emboldens those (fringe elements) on your side. For instance, the issue of Kashmir is sensitive, and becomes an India-Pakistan issue. This government thrives on this nationalist fervour. But now we're talking about mainstream Muslims, of those in main states of India and not just Kashmir.
 
 
 
 
 By no means am I suggesting that the Congress had a clean record. Babri Masjid demolition, 1984 Sikh riots, took place under them. But there's no question that in the last six months, there has been a considerable ratcheting up of attacks on Muslims and dalits.
 
 
 
 
 I can't answer that. But what has happened in the last six months, that is beyond the pale. Look at the situation in Kashmir for instance.
 
 
 
 
 
 In the last six months, the situation in Kashmir has gotten out of hand, the escalation of attacks on civilians. The answer from the government is that they’re not civilians, it’s all instigated. The question is when you are dealing with a civilian population, you cannot use disproportionate force, there are UN guidelines. The use of Farooque Dar as a human shield was outrageous. You violate every possible international law and then celebrate the Major who did that. It aggravates people, and perpetuates the cycle of violence.
 
 The use of AFSPA is another issue. The J&K government has referred several cases for prosecution to the central government but not even one case has been given permission. How can there not be even one case fit for prosecution? It means they (security forces) are untouchable. 
 
 
 
 
 Every government being challenged questions our methodology, agenda. Fact is we don’t take money from governments, it comes independently from contributors. There are more than 10,000 contributors in India, so we are a mass movement. We have even had accusations of sedition made against us.
 
 
 
 
 We had the sedition charge against us a year ago and now we are being told its all fine. We knew of course that it was all fabricated due to the Kashmir issue, when we brought voices of Kashmir (through Broken Families) to Bangalore and were planning to take it to other cities. There were orchestrated demonstrations against us so that the event had to be shut down.
 
 
 
