NEW DELHI: His job was to test the vulnerability of internet payment gateways and report them to make online transactions safer.  , a professional hacker, did this job quite right. However, he chose to exploit the identified loopholes in these gateways to make a quick buck.

 His gang of four hackers only stayed in five star hotels and rented cars like Mercedes and BMW to commute in the city. It was this lifestyle that busted their cover.
 
 When the police got hold of their mobile numbers, they found them changing locations frequently making it difficult to track and nab them. Last Monday, while tracking them on Facebook, they saw that Nehra had posted a photo of him standing in the lobby of a hotel. A cop identified the background as that of The Leela Hotel and soon caught hold of him.
 
 The four arrested men are from different places, but a hackers’ platform called “anonymous” brought them together. The creator of this group was allegedly their close friend.
 
 The quartet belong to middle class families. They developed interest in hacking while studying and the gang leader, Nehra, quickly excelled in this field. They developed an online association with various hackers operating from India as well as abroad. They then started an experiment of hacking weakly encoded/encryptede-commerce websites for small amounts.
 
 After getting the latest hacking tools and vulnerability by anonymous hackers on the internet, they soon graduated to big time cybercrime league that gave them access to virtual currency like bitcoins.
 
 The digital money siphoned by them was used for buying sophisticated proxy servers, virtual private networks and high-end laptops. Most of the e-vouchers digitally shoplifted by them were spent in five star hotels, air tickets and entertaining girlfriends.
 
 Police have seized sophisticated electronic equipment, including a laptop (Alienware make) used for high-level programming with a staggering 256GB RAM. This laptop was customised to support the Python hacking suite. Cops are also going through the data in their iPhones and iPads.
 
 Cops said they are going to take the help of ethical hackers to gather evidence against the accused. A team is also working towards ascertaining their involvement in other unreported cybercrimes. They have also found evidence of the gang having invested in virtual currency and are questioning them in this regard.
 
 
