VELLORE: The Indian regional satellite navigation system, NAVIC, of   and the NAVIC based mobile application would ensure the safety of Indain   and prevent them from straying into international waters, said Rakesh Sasibhushan, chairman and managing director of Antrix Corporation Ltd, a commercial arm of Isro. 

 The NAVIC, with seven satellites in orbit, is the Indian equivalent of GPS. It offers opportunities for Indian entrepreneurs to develop India-specific applications. Towards this, ISRO is coming out with a specific proposal aimed at Indian industry. Isro's PFZ programme already provides information on potential fishing zones, said Sasibhushan at the inauguration of the three day international conference 'Materials, Manufacturing and Modelling 2017' at VIT University on Thursday.
 
 "Now, NAVIC based mobile devices which give information to fishermen, are being planned to be developed in regional languages to help fishermen navigate to the PFZ. It also gives information on international boundaries to help them prevent getting caught for crossing international boundaries, which is a big issue today," he said citing the recent incident in which a 22 year-old fisherman was shot dead.
 
 On GAGAN (GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation), he said it was another satellite-based navigation application. the application which provides seamless air navigation across regional boundaries was jointly developed by Isro and Airports Authority of India. On Isro's recent achievement of launching104 satellites in the PSLV, he said, "Of the 104 satellites, 88 are from one company that sells earth observation products. It indicates the emergence of new business models based on new technology."
 
 The global satellite industry revenue, at present, stands in excess of 200 billion US$. The revenue has nearly tripled since 2004. "Today, more than 55 countries operate at least one satellite. Nearly 1,250 operating satellites, including around 37 satellites from India, are in orbit. With the emergence of new technologies, the space market is poised to grow further," he said. 
 
 Another change that is taking place is providing satellite broad-band connectivity using small satellite constellations as against traditional communication services rendered by large and costly geostationary satellites, Sasibhushan said. 
 
 He added that Astrome, a Bangaluru based startup, is in the process of designing, building and launching a constellation of 150 high-throughput satellites in medium earth orbit aiming to provide internet communication at a fraction of the cost of terrestrial systems. Founder and chancellor of VIT, G Viswanathan, while addressing the gathering, stressed the importance of providing financial aid for start-ups at low-interest rate to promote manufacturing sectors.
 
 
