NOIDA: A mob armed with sticks and stones stormed a housing society in Noida on Wednesday morning, believing one of their neighbours -a 30-year-old woman who works as a maid -had been held captive and thrashed after being accused of theft.

 During a three-hour siege of  , home to 2,000 families in Sector 78, the mob pelted the society wall and guards' enclosure with stones and concrete chunks. Some of them forced their way in and vandalised the flat of merchant navy officer Mitul Sethi, where the maid,  , worked.
 
 The Sethi family -Mitul, 35, his wife Harshu, 32, and son Aryan, 7 -which was the target of the attack on Mahagun Moderne, locked itself in the washroom as the mob went from room to room looking for the maid, Zohra, and vandalised the house.
 
 The violence, which started around 6am, stopped when Zohra was found, not at the Sethis' place but in a 25th floor flat of a neighbouring tower, the house of an elderly woman who Zohra knew as she works in several flats in the society .
 
 By then, the society resembled a battle zone with a huge crowd gathered outside and a police contingent in riot gear ordering them back. Residents said the mob and the guards who tried to prevent them from entering the society had fought a pitched battle, which escalated as police arrived at the scene almost two hours later. There were, however, no reports of anyone receiving major injuries. The Sethis have moved to a relative's place for the time being.
 
 Zohra was accused by the Sethis of stealing cash from them. Her husband Sattar, however, alleged the Sethis owed her Rs 12,000, her salary of two months. Police have started investigations on the basis of two FIRs -one filed by Mitul Sethi in which 300 people unknown persons have been booked for rioting and vandalism, and the other filed against the Sethis by Abdul Sattar accusing them of confining her.
 
 There were also allegations that Zohra, who had been working for the Sethis for six months, was an illegal Bangladeshi migrant but police said this was wrong and she had all necessary documents.
 
 Mitul Sethi is a captain in the merchant navy and his wife Harshu runs a play school in Noida. Zohra, who worked at their flat in Manchester-5 tower, lives in a nearby slum with Sattar and their three children.
 
 Sattar said she had gone to work around 7.30am on Tues work around 7.30am on Tuesday but did not return home at her usual time in the evening.Around 8pm, Sattar visited the society to enquire and found Zohra's entry registered in the society records but not her exit. Along with two guards, Sattar then visited the Sethis' flat, where he was told Zohra had left in the evening after being confronted for stealing money from Harshu's purse.
 
 Later, Harshu told TOI that Rs 17,000 had gone missing and Zohra had admitted to having stolen Rs 10,000 when confronted. She also said Zohra had left the house when Harshu told her she would complain to the society's facility management.
 
 When he couldn't find his wife, Sattar dialled 100 for help. A police team visited the society around 10pm, scanned the Sethis' flat, did not find Zohra there and left.
 
 Sattar wasn't convinced.He returned to the slum and called a meeting. The next morning, he led the mob of 300 to Moderne.
 
 Dharmendra Rathore, a resident of Milano Tower, said he had gone for a morning walk around 6am when he saw the mob at the society gates. “They were alleging that the maid had disappeared. Some society residents also gathered there but we were outnumbered. We managed the situation somehow,“ he said.
 
 Zohra was found by security guard Kaushik Kumar. She had allegedly gone to the 25th floor flat and spent the night there, saying she was feeling unwell. The flat owner tried to wake her up in the morning but when she did not get up, she informed security .That's how they discovered Zohra was there.
 
 Zohra's family alleged her clothes were torn which showed she had been thrashed.She was taken to a local hospital and discharged after primary treatment. TOI later met Zohra at her house, where she accused Harshu of thrashing her. “I fled to the society's basement fearing consequences if I stayed there any longer,“ she said. She did not explain how she reached the 25th floor flat.
 
 Harshu denied assaulting Zohra, saying she was concocting a story to cover up the theft. Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) said, “We are investigating both angles.“
 
 The Mahagun Moderne management said it had no role in the incident. “This was an unpleasant incident between the flat owner and the maid. We are cooperating with police in the investigation,“ said a spokesperson. Mahagun Moderne has around 2,750 flats in 19 towers, of which 2,000 flats are occupied.
 
