NEW DELHI: Eyeing a third term in the municipal corporations, BJP plans to field “fresh faces” in the upcoming civic elections. “Nai urja, naye chehre, nai udhan; Dilli mange kamal nishan” is the tagline of BJP’s campaign. The party will start a door-to-door campaign from Friday.

 Pamphlets in the form of a letter undersigned by Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari and the local MP will be distributed by party workers in each of the seven parliamentary constituencies to connect with the voters.
 
 In the letter, BJP has assured voters of new candidates for all the three corporations. “These new candidates will soon meet you with their new ideas of development. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, we have started the work of building a new India. Today, 16 states and 72 municipal corporations are benefiting from the PM’s development-oriented policies,” it said.
 
 BJP has attacked Congress and AAP by listing the various scams, which allegedly took place under the previous government. “No one has forgotten the misrule of the Congress government. People still remember the scams related to CWG, water tankers and regularisation of unauthorised colonies. People voted for AAP as they were fed up with Congress. But what have you gained,” the letter read.
 
 Hitting out at its arch-rival, BJP said that there were criminal cases against 13 AAP MLAs and the party had misused taxpayers’ money for publicity campaigns in other states.
 
 In the letter, BJP has highlighted its achievements in the corporations. It claims to have initiated several citizen-centric services, started ‘open gyms’ in 450 parks, installed two lakh LED streetlights, among others.
 
 BJP members said that the distribution of pamphlets will be done by booth-level workers. Recently BJP supremo Amit Shah and organisational general secretary Ramlal had addressed booth-level workers, asking them to go to each house at least thrice before the polling date.
 
 BJP has asked its district presidents to start the door-to-door campaign during which booth-level workers will visit at least 40 houses a day. 
 
 “The party has directed them to visit houses, religious places, RWAs, market associations, etc. District units have been asked to formulate special outreach plans for slums and unauthorised colonies. The first leg of the door-to-door campaign has to be completed in the next five days,” said a BJP functionary.
 
