David Guetta's   in India has been no short of drama. After cancellations in Bengaluru and Mumbai, the Grammy Award-winning artist's performance in Delhi today at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium (JLN Stadium) was still up in the air at the time of going to press. A team from the Delhi Police had gone to inspect JLN Stadium on Friday, and they told us that the organisers only applied for permission ten days back. At the time of going to press, permission hadn't been entirely denied, and meetings with  ,  , were going on. An official from the Sports Authority of India, which operates the JLN Stadium, says, 'The organisers sought permission to hold the concert just over a week ago, as they were looking to shift the venue from Noida to Delhi. The formalities from our end were completed, but the final authority for granting permission lies with the Delhi Police, as they have to take stock of security arrangements.' Rajiv Jain, vice president, Event and Entertainment Management Association (EEMA), tells us, "The organisers, who are EEMA members, should apply for permission on time, we can't blame the police every time something goes wrong. The members should abide by the law. The police is doing their work, as security is not a small issue. We are trying to work it out."
 
 
 
 Guetta's Bangalore concert was called off on January 12, and organizers and the police gave two different versions as reasons for why the gig was cancelled. While Harindra Singh, chairman and managing director, Percept Limited, organizers of the concert, told us that they were advised not to hold the concert on that date keeping in mind the law and order situation in the city following the mass molestation that happened in the city on New Year's, the police said that the organizers sought permission very late. A source told us that another reason behind the cancellation was the reduction in ticket prices from Rs 3,000 to Rs 500, which would've attracted a larger crowd.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The same day, the organisers announced that the venue of their Mumbai and Delhi concerts had been shifted. The venue for the NCR concert, which was the India Expo Mart in Greater Noida earlier, was shifted to the JLN Stadium in Delhi, and the venue for the Mumbai concert, was shifted from Mahalaxmi Race Course to Jio Gardens in Bandra. Another twist in this tour tale came on the day of the Mumbai concert, on January 13, when the municipal commissioner of Mumbai, Ajoy Mehta, pointed out that apart from not getting timely clearances, the organisers had failed to pay the administration `10 lakh for an earlier event. "They had not paid the BMC `10 lakh for a previous function. When they approached us for organising the concert at the Mahalaxmi Race Course this time, we told them they would have to pay in advance. Now they have cleared their dues," Mehta was quoted as saying. The payment came in late, and the BMC had already issued a public notice on Thursday asking people not to buy tickets for an "unauthorized" event. Amid this drama, on Thursday, the only relief for organizers came through a tweet, "Welcome to Hyderabad  . Look forward to hosting you tomorrow. @cyberabadpolice committed to ensure a glitch free event as always," read a tweet posted on the official twitter account of the Hyderabad Police. Guetta's Hyderabad performance was scheduled for Saturday, January 14.
 
 
 
 Regarding the Mumbai show, Singh said in a statement, 'We regret the cancellation of Sunburn Arena with David Guetta this evening. We are happy to add that we have succeeded to reschedule the event for Sunday, January 15, between 1100- 1600 hours at the same venue, that is Jio Gardens. We are complying with all the regulatory requirements as prescribed by the authorities. The current tickets will be valid for the rescheduled show on Sunday. We regret any inconvenience caused, and are grateful to all our fans for their love and support. We would like to thank David Guetta, his team, and also all the regulatory bodies for their support and agreeing to reschedule the show at such short notice.' In a statement, Karan Singh, CEO, Sunburn, said, "The David Guetta Sunburn Arena show in New Delhi on the 15th and Hyderabad on the 14th, will take place as originally planned. The venue for New Delhi is Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, while the venue for Hyderabad is Hitex Exhibition Center."
 
 With inputs from Mumbai Mirror 
 
 
 
  
  
 
