GUWAHATI: Children in the tea belt, whose education needs have often been ignored by parents, are set to benefit from Gunotsav, which is going to be instrumental in understanding the loopholes in the education system being imparted to the   children. 

 While the students from the tea gardens have emerged as one of the biggest beneficiaries from the just-concluded four-day mega exercise launched in the state to ascertain the ground reality of the state's elementary education system, officials at the   (SSA) said the outcome in the tea gardens of upper Assam's Dibrugargh district may prove phenomenal in undertaking remedial measures to improve the scenario of illiteracy among the students. In Assam, the current drop-out rate up to class VIII is about 15%, of which a major chunk of students are from the tea gardens. Dibrugarh was one of the eight districts under focus at the festival.
 
 "A revival wave swept over the schools in the tea gardens of the district. Gunotsav has brought together the   management and the guardians for improving the   They are now much more aware and alert," said Monima Bhattacharjee, district programme officer at SSA, Dibrugarh.
 
 Senior IAS, IPS and IFS officers, who evaluated the learners in Dibrugarh, said the learning level of the students of the district was found to be poor. Many senior officers said the community participation along with proper implementation of the mid-day meal (MDM) scheme has to be ensured with active support of the tea garden management. 
 
 "As an impact of Gunotsav, the garden management has taken lots of effort to upgrade the school infrastructure. In this regard, school-level activities have been geared up and work, which could not be done long back, has significantly progressed in the field of elementary education in Dibrugarh," said an SSA official.
 
 As the district is surrounded by tea gardens, the education scenario at the elementary level seems to be largely dominated by the students from the tea tribes and ex-tea tribes. 
 
