Ever since the Goods and Services Tax (GST) has started showing up in our bills and invoices, citizens of this country seem to be engaged in endless discussions over what betterment it is going to bring about in the economy and people’s lives. The extra money levied on the food we eat and the clothes we wear has not only made our daily dealings dearer, but has also left many befuddled by ambiguity surrounding the latest tax regime. Among the sectors that are feeling the pinch the most is the performing arts industry, which is already grappling under major funding issues and fierce competition from commercial entertainment platforms. New rules by the   council mean that any performing arts event — be it theatre, dance or music — where the ticket price exceeds `250 per person, is liable for 18% GST. Bengaluru — being a hub of culture, art collectives and independent performers — has been raising concerns over how the new move would stifle the country’s creative community and limit the number of audiences coming to watch live performances.

  
 
 “Artistes are not traders. For many of them, live performances are a life support. The whole new number game means that a Bharatanatyam dancer or theatre actor would now have to spend a considerable amount of time every month filling forms and making rounds of the tax office. Independent artistes are already reeling under a lot of problems to sustain their craft — from finding suitable venues to funding their shows. Now, it looks like they will also need to hire personal accountants to take care of all the math. It is something like you are made to pay a penalty for keeping the country’s arts and culture alive,” says Jagdish Raja, Co-Founder and Development Director at  , which had recently floated a petition, requesting Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and the GST council to spare performing arts from the 18% tax.
 
  
 
 According to Shiva Pathak, actor and arts manager at Sandbox Collective, too many things are being talked about the 18% GST on performing arts, but the understanding of the new tax regime is still very little. “Being an arts collective, we work with different sets of people at different levels. When it comes to putting up a show, things don’t limit to the artistes alone. There are various other peripheral components as well as costs and payments involved in those areas that would now need to be restructured, thanks to GST. The new tariff is patterned largely from the event management’s point of view, whereas artistes conduct their shows with a completely different perspective. Whether or not it is going to help performers in the long run still remains unanswered, but right now the new tax is adding to their woes,” she adds.
 
  
 
 Describing the 28% GST on musical instruments as a major setback for both aspiring and professional artistes,  , the frontman of folk-fusion band  , says, “Musical equipment are required to be upgraded from time to time. A new app/port installed today might become obsolete six months later; after every two-three shows, the strings of the guitar need to be replaced; high-end instruments already come with a heavy price tag. Artistes are already struggling to cope with all these expenses, apart from booking venues for independent shows that are still few in number, as well as reaching out to the audiences. Music is a symbol of our cultural heritage, and to practise it, we need instruments. It is a necessity, not a luxury. Such a high percentage of tax is not just taking a toll on the musicians but also on folk and modern instruments makers, for whom the market is fast shrinking.”
 
  
 
 Rukmini Vijayakumar, Bharatanatyam dancer and film actress, says, “A large number of classical and folk dance performances as well as theatrical acts are privately funded, or in some instances voluntarily financed. Several shows are not even ticketed. In such a scenario, hosting shows and earning a living out of it is just not feasible. Artistes can barely meet the margin. It is understood that the move is intended to regularize the tax system, but when it comes to arts, particularly the traditional forms, we need more support to sustain, and not be burdened by yet another tax. This is only going to keep artistes away from their craft.”
 
  
 
 “Although the new GST is not going to impact stand-up comedians as much as it is affecting theatrical performances, when it comes to booking venues for shows, we now might have to consider spaces where the ticket prices are lower,” says stand-up artiste Kritarth Srinivasan, according to whom sorting the 10% entertainment tax earlier was a more tedious task.
 
  
 
 
 
 
