MUMBAI: Cyber police at Bandra-Kurla Complex arrested a man from Kolkata on Thursday for cheating a college student in Mumbai of Rs 34,000 in an iPhone sale last year.

 Sabhyasachi Mistry , the accused, had advertised an iPhone 6s on Olx.com, offering to sell it for Rs 40,000 -half the market value. Four days after Akshay Avsare (20) made the online payment on April 14, he received a parcel with an iPhone box containing four sheets of paper shaped like a cellphone.
 
 Police cracked the case 11 months later when they tracked Mistry down to Kestopur and arrested him after a week's search. He was identified after cyber police got in touch with the bank and got details of the fake account and the place where the money was withdrawn.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (crime) KMM Prasanna said Mistry was a technical employee at a private firm. “The accused was arrested earlier by Oshiwara Police for a similar fraud.We are getting the case details,“ said Prasanna.
 
 Mistry had been duping people with fake ads on Olx.com for some time. “Several debit and SIM cards were seized from Mistry . He used different bank accounts to get money from people with fake ads. He would ask them to make online payments and provide them bank account numbers to transfer the money to get the product,“ said a cyber police officer.
 
 In his complaint, Avsare said: “I ordered the iPhone 6s when I saw the ad on Olx.com. I called the person who posted the ad and was provided bank account details and asked to pay Rs 34,000. I deposited the money in a friend's bank account and used National Electronic Funds Transfer to transfer money.“
 
 Cyber police learnt that Mistry had used fake documents to open over a dozen bank accounts. “He posted new account and SIM numbers on Olx.com for each fraud and took precautions to avoid being traced.“
 
 Mistry was booked under IPC sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and IT Act section 66 (D) (cheating by personation by using computer resource).He was produced in the 37th Esplanade court and sent to police custody till March 14.
 
