BENGALURU:  , a musical ensemble that encapsulates the cultural heritage in the Girmitiya nations (to which indentured labourers were brought from India's Bhojpuri belt by the British two centuries ago) was recognized by   as “The Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity“ last December.

 Geet Gawai came to Mauritius when the first batch of indentured labourers arrived at its capital city Port Louis in 1834 and has been orally passed down through generations. The Indian diaspora emphasized the need for making Geet Gawai a recognized cultural expression and worked towards it. One such Mauritian who was instrumental in getting the “intangible heritage“ tag for Geet Gawai was  , the chairperson of Mauritius Bhojpuri speaking union and head of  .
 
 Is Bhojpuri still popular in Mauritius?
 
 Following the abolition of slavery, the British brought labourers from India to work in sugarcane plantations of Mauritius. The first batch of 36 indentured Indian labourers arrived in Port Louis in 1834 from Bihar, the Bhojpuri speaking belt. The number of Girmitiyas (indentured labour force from India) grew and today a whopping 54% of the Indian diaspora in Mauritius speaks Bhojpuri.
 
 How has Geet Gawai been a binding force for the Indian diaspora? Geet Gawai, which has its roots in B i h a r, is a r i c h collec tion of songs, proverbs and stories. It has been orally passed on from one generation to another and the womenfolk have played a key role in keeping this cultural tradition alive. Geet Gawai has not only been a binding force in the family as children get to learn from their parents, it has also kept the community together as the musical ensemble is an integral part of weddings.
 
 Several oral traditions have become extinct in the modern times.
 
 Yes, Geet Gawai, too, faced challenges. In the last 1970s we realized that the women in Mauritius and other Girmitiya countries such as Fiji, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago were mov ing away from the traditional cultural expression and were embracing modern trends. We realized that the number of women associated with Geet Gawai was diminishing.
 
 How did the turnaround happen?
 
 We elders in the Bhojpuri community felt it was high time something had to be done or else the future generations will forget Geet Gawai and will subsequently disconnect with the Indian culture. We started the Mauritius   in 1982 and the basic idea behind it was to institutionalize the oral traditions because only then people take it seriously .This apart, we did not want Geet Gawai to be confined to the four walls, so we started organizing public functions and pageants.Soon, the Bhojpuri Institute became an andolan and we started giving the singers, referred to as Geetharines, more importance. The Geetharines started performing in public and we invited the country's elite, especially those from other ethnic groups, to come and attend Geet Gawai sessions.This generated a lot of curiosity and more people started showing interest in Geet Gawai. In the meantime, we started conducting workshops and tried telling youngsters the importance and meaning of the songs.The underlying message that we have been driving home is happiness and unity.
 
 How has the government of Mauritius supported the initiative?
 
 In 2012, the Mauritius government set up various speaking unions and they announced the Bhojpuri speaking union. I was appointed as the chairperson. It is here that we felt the need to recognize Geet Gawai as a cultural expression at the global level. I was invited by the Mauritius government to defend Geet Gawai at UNESCO. We are happy that Geet Gawai has been given the `intangible heritage' status. While the Geet Gawai songs are in Bhojpuri the script is in Devanagari.
 
