NAGPUR: The Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has started the process to delete a 50-foot road proposed under its   Widening and Buty Mahal Street Scheme in 1964. The move has drawn objections from 18 Sitabuldi shopkeepers, who have accused the civic agency of doing so only to favour   developer, Pune-based Goel Ganga Infrastructure and Real Estate Private Limited. In fact, NIT’s move contradicts its own observation before the high court that the road was very important to decongest Sitabuldi area.

 As part of the deletion process, NIT had invited the 18 shopkeepers for a hearing on Monday. All shopkeepers met NIT assistant director of town planning SP Aloni, who asked them to go for hearing before NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar.
 
 “We went to Mhaisekar and requested him to hold a common hearing for all shopkeepers. However, Mhaisekar rejected our request and wanted to hold individual hearings. This raised our suspicions, so we all submitted our objection in writing and returned,” the shopkeepers told TOI.
 
 Shopkeepers said deletion of the road will not fulfil the main objective behind NIT’s Abhyankar Road Widening and Buty Mahal Street Scheme. NIT got the scheme approved from the state government on September 23, 1964. One 50-foot road was earmarked to connect Mahatma Gandhi Road (Sitabuldi Main Road) with Abhyankar Road.
 
 “The road was mentioned in various reports of NIT, including a report submitted in the Supreme Court. Later, the HC slammed NIT for not incorporating the road in the layout and building plan sanctioned to Goel Ganga. To favour Goel Ganga, NIT appealed against the HC order in the apex court, where the case is pending. Meanwhile, NIT started the process to delete the road,” they said.
 
 The HC order of August 31, 2016, categorically said, “Keeping in view the entire situation, we find that to do away with the vital and basic requirement of internal road in the scheme, only on the basis of office notings, not backed by the decision of any competent authority, is nothing but a mischief to provide an unfair advantage to the developers and the owners and it deprives the facility of frontage to the tenants on the internal road.”
 
 Retired IAS officer Shyam Wardhane was NIT chairman when the case was in HC. As per HC orders, Wardhane conducted hearings of all parties and submitted a report.
 
 The HC order mentioned Wardhane’s report. “As a matter of fact, the chairman, NIT, acting as an arbitrator, has also prima facie held that (i) the internal road has a very significant importance, (ii) the main object is that of decongestion, and (iii) the compromise before the apex court on April 8, 2002, provides for internal road. This fortifies the view which we have taken,” it said.
 
 However, NIT has chosen to begin the process to delete the road from the scheme.
 
 The shopkeepers said NIT was supposed to revise the building plan of the mall to bring it in conformity with the scheme sanctioned in 1964. “HC specifically asked NIT to make the project as per the scheme. Unfortunately, NIT officials are going against the report submitted by their own chairman in the HC.”
 
 Mhaisekar said the process to delete the road commenced as per certain sections, and was permissible even though the case was pending in the SC. “NIT had made some modifications in the scheme in 1997, which were not considered by the HC,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar did not comment when asked whether congestion in Sitabuldi will be addressed by deleting the road. He also said that he had not gone through Wardhane’s report submitted to the HC.
 
 
