The city’s  , restaurants and dhabas have been taking a beating of late.   on these establishments have become the talk of town, much to the dismay and disappointment of   and patrons. But the district   has its reasons for the crackdown; these eateries are operating and serving beverages beyond the permissible time limit, they claim. We get both sides of the story...

 
 
 
 When we asked the district administration for reasons on why they have been conducting these surprise checks, Arun Rathore, the public relations officer of the district administration, says, “The permissible time limit for these restaurants to serve liquor is strictly till 
 . This includes hosting events and playing music. Most pubs aren’t abiding by these norms. Many of them also don’t have relevant licenses to offer these services.”
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate Anil Banwariya of Sanwer, Indore adds, “Surprise checks have been carried out at over 10 pubs in the last two months because they have been serving liquor beyond the time permitted. There was also a crackdown on around 40 dhabas that were serving alcohol without a license. A penalty is charged from these establishments.”
 
 
 
 
 Ritesh Chaudhary, who runs a leading food and beverage joint in the city, believes that these checks need to carried out following certain decorum. He says, “The administration need not send 10 cops who barge into the restaurant from different entrances. I think, these checks can be carried out without sensationalising them, with a limited number of officials.” Ritesh, at whose joint a surprise check was recently conducted, believes that they can put the restaurant’s image in a bad light.
 Jagdish Makhija, owner of a city-based tavern that the administration inspected recently, had this to add, “A number of cops turn up and often create a state of panic among our patrons with these checks. Recently, the police arrived at the tavern at around 
 . By that time half of the guests had left. They found one or two odd revellers sipping on their wine. We strictly take our last order at 
 , but we do not believe is rushing our patrons to finish their food and drink by 
 .”
 
 
 
 
 
 Naman Khandelwal, who was having dinner at a restaurant when the surprise check began there, says, “These inspections cause a lot of inconvenience to people who aren’t flouting the norms. We had to leave our meal in between.” Another patron, Shazia Sheikh, added, “We compare ourselves to metros in all other aspects, then why not have similar   as them.”
 
 If the administration has laid certain norms and deadlines, it should be strictly adhered to. But at the same time, like other bigger cities, the permissible time to operate and serve liquor should be extended. We urge for a revision of the deadline.”
 — Sumit Suri, chairman, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India
