THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Vigilance and   director Loknath Behera has asked all the vigilance units to collect `quality information' before undertaking an open inquiry or investigation.

 Behera's circular on preparing   (SIR) issued on Thursday , assumes importance in the wake of widespread criticism, including from courts, against the agency for going overboard in many cases even when there are hardly any vigilance angle, and ending up with an acquittal report that only serves the purpose of destroying the reputation of a public servant.
 
 Also, the interpretation of the Lalithakumari case in the last three years by the agency has led to a steep number of pending cases. VACB is finding it difficult to dispose of the cases and inquiries already taken up by it. At present there are 1,395 cases and quick verifications that are awaiting disposal with various units of VACB. In the latest circular, the   has said that independent source information has to be prepared by the officers of the rank of inspectors and above and has given a target of at least two source information reports per year, which can be acted upon. Though preparation of SIR about graft, misuse of official position and disproportionate assets will be dealt in addition to the petitions that come to the agency , the agency has decided to go ahead with action on the petitions on ly if the petition attracts minimum merit to spend time on.
 
 The circular has asked the officials not to rely on the internal vigilance inquiry and departmental inquiry reports to build SIRs and once a solid SIR is prepared, it will have to be verified by another official before taking it up as a material for investigation. After verification of the SIR, the verifying officer should prepare a report on whether the allegations in the SIR have been substantiated or not. In the report, he should al so make the recommendation on whether the matter would invite a vigilance case, quick verification or referred to the concerned department.
 
 Behera said that he has asked all the units to come up with a detailed plan on how to dispose of the pending cases, many of which have been dragging on for years. The agency had witnessed a steep increase in the number of cases being registered ever since the bar bribery case came up, which for the first time brought to public attention Lalithakumari case.
 
 By the end of 2015, the average number of FIRs being registered in a year had increased to 250, from the earlier figure of less than 150 (prior to Lalithakumari case verdict in 2013). In the Lalithakumari vs State of Uttar Pradesh and others case, the   had ruled that registration of FIR is mandatory under Section 154 of the Criminal Procedure Code, if the information discloses commission of a cognizable offence.
 
 
