HYDERABAD: For two-and-half years, Adam W Purinton had been on a  . Apart from stints with various jobs that did not last long, the man accused of killing Hyderabad techie   also had several run-ins with the law.

 Before he unleashed havoc at Austin’s Bar and Grill in Olathe, Kansas, Purinton had been warned by the police when they recovered marijuana from his house. “Purinton had been living for a decade in a $240,000 split-level on 155th Terrace cul-de-sac in   when one summer morning police came with a search warrant. Officers broke down his door and spoke with a roommate. Purinton, then 44, was not home. In the basement, the police wrote in their report, they found marijuana plants being grown in buckets under large lights, surrounded by hydroponics equipment. Officers seized bongs, pipes, bags of pot and cash. Prosecutors declined to file charges. In 2013, police returned to the home on the same suspicion. But when officers arrived and Purinton let them in, they found only a small amount of marijuana for his personal use and wrote him a citation,” the   City Star reported.
 
 In 1994, Purinton rammed his car into another vehicle at a super market and made good his escape. His mother, Marsha Purinton, was with him in the car at the time. Purinton was arrested in the case and booked for ‘Driving Under Influence’ (DUI), which means he was either driving in an inebriated condition or had taken drugs.
 
 Purinton hailed from a well-to-do family, which is why his arrested came as a surprise to many. “He snapped, this is not his typical self,” was his mother’s first reaction. Purinton’s father, Gerald E Purinton, had worked as an IT professional for several years before he passed away on October 23, 2015. 
 
 Adam had done fairly well after his graduation in 1983 from Johnson County Community College, where his parents had also studied. According to Kansas City Star, Adam did his schooling from Shawnee Mission North High School. He later chalked out a career for himself and qualified as a radar, navigation and communications expert. This is what took him on board a US nuclear-powered warship in the Pacific ocean. 
 
 He later found a job with the Wichita Mid-Continent Airport. After worked there in the 1990s, he even got a pilot’s license. He then got to work in Olathe for the Federal Aviation Administration’s Kansas City Air Route Traffic Control Centre till 2000. Then he took up more jobs, before working at the IT technical wing at Time Warner Cable in Kansas city for as many as five years.
 
 After his stints in various jobs, Purinton today is accused of  . He is also accused of attempt to kill two others – Alok Madasani and Ian Grillot. What awaits him, if found guilty, is a prison term of 50 years with no parole.
 
 
