BENGALURU: Did you know that between 10th and 14th centuries there lived families so faithful to their kings that they vowed not to outlive their masters? 

 Hero stones erected in memory of such valiant individuals and their families, and inscriptions detailing the legacy of Agrahara Bachahalli in KR Pet taluk, Mandya, form interesting nuggets of history. Agrahara Bachahalli, one of the most prospe-rous towns from the Hoysala period which was in dire need of conservation, has finally got a new lease of life. 
 
 This is after the state archeology department, with help from historians and heritage enthusiasts, completed conservation work at the place. Today, this heritage-rich spot is all set to be added to the state’s tourism circuit.
 
 M Doreraju, a conservation engineer, state archeology department, said the hero stones at Agrahara Bachahalli, numbering around 11, are at least 800 years old. “A unique monument found here is the   (pillars), also known as the hero stones. As per inscriptions on these pillars, the family or individuals in whose name the stones are installed served the Hoysala rulers from the times of King Ereyanga (1098–1102). There are also many inscriptions from the time of King Veera Ballala II (1173–1220),” he added.
 
 Officials with the archeology department said the stones were erected in memory of the ‘heroes’ who sacrificed their lives for the welfare of Hoysala kings. Faithful servants or bodyguards of the monarchs, they vowed not to live beyond their masters.  , one such hero, also has a shrine built in his honour at Agrahara Bachahalli, they added.
 
 OF SELF-SACRIFICE FOR THE KINGS
 
 Heritage enthusiast Swaminathan Natarajan, who recently found a set of unrecorded inscriptions at Bachahalli, said the place has the best collection of hero stones and a rare veeragudi (a shrine for a hero). The inscriptions have now been recorded by the ASI’s epigraphy department in Mysuru.
 
 Swaminathan said writer Malini Adiga, who dedicated an entire chapter on self-sacrifice in early medieval Karnataka in one of her books, mentioned Agrahara Bachahalli under the topic Agrahara Belgauli. “The writer states that a series of inscriptions from   shows that the Hoysala rulers were followed unto death by generations of servants belonging to the Mugilu clan. They were not alone in following the kings, but were accompanied by their wives and other family members. The males from the family would lead the sacrificial ritual, followed by the females; the number of those accompanying the king increased over time,” he added.
 
 Swaminathan said the Mandya district administration needs to improve the approach roads this heritage site, and also see to it that the monuments find better visibility. 
 
