CHENNAI: Having joined the ISL draft as late as Round 4,   are satisfied with their choice of 12 players on Sunday. In a bid to maintain continuity in their squad, they have retained four players - goalkeeper Pawan Kumar, defender  , midfielders Dhanpal Ganesh and Thoi Singh - from their previous seasons while they have acquired the services of eight new players, including the talented youngsters Germanpreet Singh and  .

 The franchisee had earlier retained striker Jeje Lalpekhlua and goalkeeper   and developmental players Jerry Lalrinzuala and Anirudh Thapa. In the end, Chennaiyin spent Rs 5.66 crore on Indian players and now have a handsome purse of Rs 12.34 crore for foreign recruits.
 
 The two players they were unable to retain are midfielders   and Harmanjyot Singh Khabra. Both the attacking midfielders had played crucial roles in their ISL title-winning run in 2015-16 and became key members of the squad. But four rounds of wait before their first buy proved too costly and it was ATK who picked Rane for Rs 49 lakhs while Bengaluru FC went for Khabra for Rs 53 lakhs. Chennaiyin immediately chose to try the 'instant trade' option but were denied by the respective franchises.
 
 A source close to the club said there is a feeling of disappointment in the club. "We had to submit a list of five players whom we wanted to retain to ISL organisers initially. Both Rane and Khabra featured in the list apart from Karanjit, Jeje and Thoi. However, given our position in the draft, we knew that we could choose only one. So we were expecting that we could buy out those two players from the other franchises through instant trade. But the teams refused to trade saying it was not about money - they wanted the players for specific positions. So we were a bit disappointed," the source told TOI after the draft.
 
 Co-owner   also admitted his disappointment. "(Coach)   wanted to retain our core group so that we don't have to spend time on developing understanding between players. That was our primary strategy. But it's unfortunate that we couldn't. We will surely miss them. At the same time, we would like to welcome others," Abhishek said.
 
 Having missed out on Rane and Khabra, Chennaiyin picked winger Francis Fernandes and midfielder Sanjay Balmuchu apart from also building a solid defence with picks like Almeida and Fulganco Cardozo.
 
 Home-connect missing: Dhanpal Ganesh was the only local connect in the Chennaiyin squad. Going by the mood of the draft, the franchisee didn't go for ageing local players like N Mohanraj, D Ravanan and Denson Devadas. "For us, the local connect goes beyond the first XI. We cannot tinker with the composition of the squad for the sake of local connect. If we do well, fans will definitely come and support us," the source said.
 
 Chennaiyin squad: Jeje Lalpekhlua (retained), Karanjit Singh (retained), Jerry Lalrinzuala (retained-U21), Anirudh Thapa (Retained-U21), Thoi Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Dhanachandra Singh, Germanpreet Singh, Fulganco Cardozo, Pawan Kumar, Keenan Almeida, Mohammed Rafi, Dhanpal Ganesh, Sanjay Balmuchu, Francis Fernandes and Shahin Lal Meloli.
 
