MYSURU: A   ended on a tragic note for  , who died after the bike they were on collided with a car near Bylakuppe, 80km from Mysuru on Tuesday. 

 Rakesh, 25, and Jeevan Hegde, 26, were pursuing chartered accountancy in Bengaluru, Bylakuppe police said. The accident occurred around 2.30pm on Tuesday.
 
 "It was a bike trip. They came to Kodagu on Sunday, and were returning to Bengaluru when they had a head-on collision with a car. While Jeevan died on the spot, Rakesh succumbed to injuries on the way to a hospital in Mysuru," cops added. 
 
 Sources said that the duo had come to Kodagu to visit a friend. Jeevan was riding the bike, while Rakesh was riding pillion, they added. While Jeevan was a Bengaluru resident, Rajesh hailed from Vijayapura.
 
 On the other hand, the four passengers travelling in the car that was involved in the collision sustained injuries. "They are currently undergoing treatment, and are out of danger," police said.
 
  Leopard attacks, injures man 
 
  A 20-year-old youth was hospitalized for injuries sustained in a leopard attack on the fringes of Bandipura National Park. 
 
 Shivakumar, 20, of Savve village in HD Kote taluk, was grazing his cattle when a leopard attacked him. Shivakumar was rescued by another villager after he raised an alarm. The leopard fled into the woods. Shivakumar has been shifted to Krishnarajendra hospital in Mysuru for further treatment. 
 
  
 
 
  A 56-year-old debt-ridden farmer allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of moving train near Maddur railway station on Wednesday. 
 
  Puttaswamy, a resident of Kuntanahalli village in Maddur taluk, had taken loan to the tune of Rs 4 lakh from banks, cooperative societies and private moneylenders for agricultural purpose, said police. 
 
 He was worried over repaying the debts after crop loss due to drought.
 
 A dejected Puttaswamy had left his house on Tuesday, informing family members that he is going to hospital for treatment. Family members started searching for Puttaswamy after he did not return home. Finally, they come to know that his mutilated body has been found near Maddur railway station.
 
 A case has been registered at Besagarahalli police station.
 
 
