PUNE : The 20-odd non-functional street lights in BanerPashan Link Road have become a cause for concern for the residents there.

  compound the problems posed by   passing through. Residents have reportedly complained to the officials in the   but to no avail.
 
 Those living in societies adjacent to the road say it's difficult to step out of the house after dark. The numerous cars driving by use their headlights on high-beam making it even more inconvenient to see through a distance. Moreover, the line of paan shops along the road attract a lot of unruly customers, including labourers who hang around to pass lewd comments on women passing by .
 
 Adding to the woes of the residents are the multiple restaurants and eateries that have sprung up in the area, who take advantage of the darkness to dump garbage all along the road. The lack of lighting is also misused by patrons of these food outlets who fearlessly sit and drink in the cars.
 
 Expressing her helplessness at the situation Deepika Bhargava, a resident of Echelon cooperative housing society said, “As a woman, I feel unsafe stepping out after dark. If the street lights work, the illumination can serve as a deterrent for a lot of illegal activities here. We have raised complaints on the designated WhatsApp number of Pune Municipal Corporation and even the person concerned with the work directly , but nothing seems to be working.“
 
 There may be something more to the   than a simple electrical problem, expressed Vijay Aggarwal, a resident of Kubera Bahaar cooperative housing society .“It's unbelievable that the civic body repairs streetlights one day and then they stop functioning again after four days. This has been going on for months. Either the people concerned are not doing their job properly , or there is some vested interest,“ he said.
 
 Mahendra Patwekar, another resident of the area who has repeatedly complained about the non-functioning street lights said, “It's been almost a year that I have been following up on the matter with the local officials of the civic body . However, nothing seems to move them. In fact, the people in-charge even told me to stop raising the issue as it would lead to action against them“.
 
 The residents also expressed willingness to cooperate with the civic body regarding the manual operation of street lights, if ensured that they work everyday .
 
 Sandip Kadam, in charge of Aundh ward office, however, has assured to rectify the problem permanently in the next few days. “I have been apprised of the issue by the residents at a recent mohalla committee meeting. I will prioritize this and we will ensure that the street lights start working in the next two-three days,“ he said.
 
