MYSURU: Even as winter season is through, birds from   have winged into the water body at Hadinaru Lake on the Mysuru–Nanjangud border.

 The bar headed goose has arrived in large numbers, cheering bird lovers and giving a strong indication that water bodies in Mysuru region are healthy.
 
 The sprawling lake, which is around 25km from Mysuru city, is located near the perennial Kabini river in Nanjangud and has turned into a birdwatchers’ pilgrimage centre.
 
 More than 2,500 bar headed geese were found in the lake. Every year,   which are one of the world’s highest flying birds across the Himalayas, travel around 4,850km to reach Hadinaru Lake during the winter.
 
 As the days are shorter and nights longer during winter in the northern hemisphere, migratory birds find it difficult to find food in this short period in the brief days, and migrate to India by crossing the mountains.
 
  (MAN) association convener Manu told TOI that migratory birds which arrive in January or February nest here for around four months before they return to their homes up north.
 
 “The birds only feed only on paddy grains, which are abundantly found in the area, especially as these birds arrive in the post-harvest season. They rest in the mornings and feed on grains in the fields during nights, so their droppings are good manure for the crops. The birds are friends of farmers. The situation is not similar in North India as migratory birds arrive in the pre-harvest season, and there have been instances of farmers killing or driving away birds to prevent them from destroying their standing crops,” he said.
 
 Manu said that like Hadinaru Lake in Mysuru, migratory birds used to visit Magadi Tank in Gadag. But as the lake is fast drying up, more of these birds are flying towards Mysuru and Kagallipura in Chamarajanagar district to feed. “The birds fly back home to breed,” he said.
 
 EXOTIC SPECIES LAND HERE
 
 Hadinaru Lake in Mysuru is around 25km from the city and can be reached from the Mysuru–Nanjangud Road deviating near  , or from Mysuru–Utanahalli Road towards Hadinaru Road.
 
 Apart from migratory birds like the bar headed goose, birds like the Little Grebe, Cotton Pygmy Goose, Breasted Kingfisher, Purple Moorhen, Night Heron, Small Kingfisher, Greater Cormorant, Large and Little Egret, Common Coot, Spot Billed Duck, Painted Stork, Black Ibis, River Tern and others can be found.
 
 
