CHANDIGARH: Apparently miffed over the apathetic attitude of the office of director general health services (DGHS), Haryana, towards its disabled employee, who was denied extension of service beyond 58 years, the Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the state government. 

 The HC also asked the Haryana chief secretary and advocate general to file personal affidavits seeking their comments regarding the 'repulsive' and 'abhorrent' averments made in the case by the health department authorities to defeat the claim of the petitioner. HC passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by  , ophthalmic assistant, posted at the community health centre, Narnaund in Hisar district.
 
 The court was upset over the inaction of the DGHS against the Hisar   who delayed the process of sending disability certificate to Ram Kishan that devoid him of getting an extension of service before his retirement. An employee with disability is entitled to two years extension from 58 to 60 years.
 
 "The DGHS is not apologetic or regretful about the fact that his subordinate, the civil surgeon, did not bother to ensure that the   of the petitioner was acted upon. The DGHS did not inform the court that any action was either taken or contemplated against that errant civil surgeon who treated the medical certificate with such cavalier disdain. On the other hand, the DG is justifying the inaction of the civil surgeon as a plea to deny the claim of the petitioner," observed Justice  
 
 The petitioner was suffering from a severe disability and had sought extension till he attained the age of 60. His due date of retirement was October 31, 2012 and he had applied for extension of his service in June 2012. On August 17, 2012, the department directed him to take permission from the civil surgeon, Hisar, and appear before the medical board of   for examination.
 
 He was also informed that his failure to produce the medical certificate within 10 days will not be considered to raise his retirement age. The petitioner appeared before the medical board on September 22, 2012 for examination and PGIMS sent the medical certificate by post on October 18, 2012 but it did not reach the civil surgeon, Hisar, before the petitioner's retirement.
 
 The petitioner's case for extension of service was rejected by DGHS office on the ground that copy of medical certificate was not received on time. HC was upset the manner in which DGHS had completely washed his hands without taking any action against the civil surgeon for delay in sending the report.
 
