ISLAMABAD: At least 25 people were killed and around 40 injured after Friday prayers when a powerful blast hit a convoy of the deputy chairman of Senate, Pakistan’s upper house of parliament, in the southwestern   province.

  terror group claimed responsibility for the bombing.
 
 The group’s   news agency said a bomber in an explosive vest carried out the attack, which was condemned by a former local IS affiliate.
 
 The blast took place in the town of  , about 50km south of Balochistan’s capital  , as convoy of Abdul Ghafoor   was exiting the seminary. 
 
 Haideri, a member of Jamiat Ulema Islam, a right-wing Sunni Islamist political party that is part of Prime Minister   ’s coalition government, sustained minor injuries in the attack, while his driver was killed.
 
 “I am alive, Allah has saved my life. It was all very sudden. Broken pieces of the windscreen hit me. I am injured but safe,” Haideri told a local TV station on phone.
 
 Ghazanfar Ali Shah, a police official, said that the convoy appeared to have been hit by a suicide bomber.
 
 Eyewitnesses told TV channels that sustained firing followed the bombing. “When the firing stopped, we saw bodies everywhere,” said Salahuddin, a seminary student.
 
 Television footage from the spot showed severe damage to several vehicles and motorcycles. Emergency was declared at hospitals in Mastung and Quetta.
 
 Dr Sher Ahmed, the district health chief in Mastung, said at least 25 people died and another 37 were injured. He added that condition of 8 to 10 among the injured, who were hit by pellets and shrapnel, was critical.
 
 JUI-F chief Maulana Fazulr Rehman has condemned the attack and said that it was not the first on the party. “A number of our companions have been martyred in this attack, but we have to continue to work for this country and Islam,” he said.
 
 Militant group Lashkar-e-Jangvi Al Alami, which has jointly carried out attacks with IS in the past, including a bombing at a shrine in Baluchistan in November, condemned Friday’s suicide attack, spokesman Ali Bin   said. 
 
 Sufyan said the two groups have now split due to “policy changes”, but did not elaborate on what changes had taken place. 
 
 
 
 
