NAGPUR: Maharashtra State Security Corporation ( ) jawans abandoned Nagpur University’s ( ) main administrative premises at Rabindranath Tagore Marg opposite Maharajabagh on Sunday night following a statewide protest called by their union.

 BP Kamble, MSSC in-charge at NU, said all the 22 jawans who left the premises without prior intimation have been sacked and police complaints have been lodged against them.
 
 Besides the university, MSSC is also providing security to Mayo Hospital and a couple of private banks in the city. Some of the jawans deployed at other establishments too had left to strike work, Kamble said.
 
 NU officials confirmed that the main building was left unguarded the entire Sunday night. Later, conflicting versions of the episode started coming to fore. Kamble too had said the jawans were sacked because they left the spot without informing only to deny later that they had called him up and a replacement was immediately sent.
 
 But TOI didn’t find any MSSC jawans even on Wednesday evening. In their absence, NU was forced to call in the previous private security agency and bouncers for guarding the sensitive premises that houses the college section, academic section, besides offices of the top brass.
 
 The incident took place soon after NU’s function to release a book on Babasaheb Ambedkar on the premises. Union minister   was the chief guest of the function while all NU top officers including vice-chancellor SP Kane, pro-VC Pramod Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram and others were present.
 
 The 22 jawans, including a couple of women, have been guarding the main building since mid-July when the agency was hired by NU at Rs 50lakh per annum.
 
 There was no clarity on the reason for striking work by the jawans, who had powers akin to police.
 
 Kamble said a Pune-based leader of jawans had raised certain demands, but he too was not sure about the exact reason.
 
 The incident has once again left the main building vulnerable to unruly protesters who keep staging demonstrations at NU every alternate day.
 
 Kane said three agencies are currently guarding the main building. “We have asked them to increase their manpower. We were planning to strengthen security of the hostel but that too has been delayed now,” he said.
 
