PATNA: The state JD(U) on Sunday assailed the BJP-led NDA government for reneging on the then   prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi’s poll promise that the new minimum support price ( ) for wheat would be fixed by adding 50% of the cost of production to the existing cost quantum. The party also criticised the PM for not explaining his government’s stand on the genetically modified (GM) seeds for food crops.

 State JD (U) chief spokesman Sanjay Singh said Union minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare S S Ahluwalia told the Lok Sabha on March 28 this year that the government had increased the MSP on wheat for 2017-18 from Rs 1,525 per quintal to Rs 1,625 – an increase by Rs 100.
 
 Singh, who was flanked by the party’s two other state spokesmen – Nikhil Mandal and Arvind Nishad – at the JD (U) state headquarters, called Ahluwalia’s admission as “farce” in the backdrop of the PM’s promise to farmers regarding the MSP. “The PM has reneged on his promise with regard to the MSP,” he added.
 
 Singh said Union minister for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Radha Mohan Singh, who is also from Bihar, has failed to do anything meaningful either for the country or for his state. “He comes to Bihar merely to criticise the state government and to get photographed,” he added.
 
 Singh said Nitish had written to late MoS for environment, forest and climate change Anil Madhav Dave on May 18, urging him to reject the application seeking clearance for GM mustard.
 
 The letter of the CM read, “The   Engineering Appraisal Committee has accorded regulatory clearance to GM mustard’s commercial cultivation in India, and that the matter now awaits your decision of rejection or approval of this application. Our concerns and objection to this proposal for GM food crop cultivation remain unresolved.”
 
 Nitish’s letter to Dave also referred to his letter sent to PM Modi on October 6 last year. The CM’s stand is that no clearance should be given to the GM food crop without taking the state governments in confidence, as agriculture is state subject.
 
 
