PATNA: Siblings Deepak and Kanchan wrote Class XII examinations in February-March last year — the brother in Bihar and the sister in Assam. One year on, Kanchan is set to complete first year as a BCom student in Delhi while Deepak is running around in circles to get his result from the Bihar School Examination Board ( ).
 
  A native of Muzaffarpur, Deepak’s family is based in Bongaigaon (Assam) where his dad is a businessman. The boy as a student of Bongaigaon’s   scored CGPA-9 in CBSE’s Class X examination.
  
  “Since I had to study science for which there were not good schools in Bongaigaon, my parents shifted me to our hometown where I enrolled in L P Shahi Intermediate College at Patahi,” he told TOI over phone from Delhi on Sunday.
  
  Deepak wrote the Class XII examination conducted by the BSEB at the   examination centre in Muzaffarpur. “The results were published in May, and I was shocked to see my marksheet which declared me ‘fully absent’ and had the ‘Marks Obtained’ column blank,” he said and claimed to have a copy of the attendance sheet which proves he wrote the exam.
  
  Available on the BSEB’s website, the marksheet had, however, Deepak’s name, father’s name, roll number 10625 and roll code 31047 correctly printed on it.
  
  The 18-year-old said he travelled from Muzaffarpur to Patna, 80km away, and visited the BSEB HQ several times. “The employees kept sending me from one desk to another,” he said, adding he even filmed his conversation with one employee asking him in early March this year to come after 15 days.
  
  Out of desperation, he uploaded the two videos to YouTube. He also wrote to the BSEB officials on the email ids given on its official site. “Some of the mails bounced back, the others fell on deaf ears,” he said and claimed his attempts to meet BSEB chairman Anand Kishor proved futile as his staff did not let him meet the IAS officer.
  
  Deepak quoted BSEB employees as having told him that many pending results could not be processed in time because several BSEB employees had been suspended in connection with the Class XII topper scam the same year.
  
  The infamous scam involved brazen favouritism to help undeserving students top the examination. After the media spilled the beans, an FIR was lodged, fake toppers’ results were cancelled and several BSEB functionaries, including chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, jailed.
  
  Police probe hinted Lalkeshwar and his men transported the answer sheets submitted by the examinees from one evaluation centre to another to get the favoured few evaluated by pliable evaluators. Have the answer sheets of the likes of Deepak been misplaced in the process? Is it why the BSEB has not been able to ensure the redressal of Deepak’s grievances?
  
  Since the BSEB offices are shut on Sunday, it could not be immediately known how many such results are pending and why. Chairman Kishor, however, insisted there must be a reason for the missing marks. “I will get the matter inquired,” he told TOI on Sunday evening.
