MUMBAI: The number of commuters who use   daily has risen in the  , which, in turn, has led to a “disturbing“ decline in the use of  , according to the latest report of  , a forum of transport experts.
The report, collated with data from government and private statistical agencies, states that 77.1% of daily passenger trips were by public transport in 2015-16 down from 89.1% in 2005-06.
 
 On the other hand, statistics show private car rides increased from 10.9% of the total daily commuters in 2005-06 to 22.9% in 201516. In terms of numbers, private car and bike ridership increased from 7.6 lakh to 16.4 lakh --a 116% growth in a decade.
 
 The decline has mainly been in the road sector, especially buses and taxis, said A V Shenoy of the Samiti.BEST, with a fleet of 4,000 buses, itself, saw a huge drop in commuters -from 32.9% in 2005-06 to 18.3% in 2015-16. Local trains has the highest ridership with 46% of commuters using it daily in the city, according to the latest report of Mumbai Vikas Samiti, a forum of transport experts, on the use of public transport in the city.
 
 Over18% of the citizens were ferried by public transport buses while 5.8% travelled by taxis and 5% opted for autorickshaws for daily commute.Among those who preferred to use one or multiple modes of transport to travel daily from home to office and back, 46% also chose to walk a few kilometres en route. “This should be encouraged,“ said A V Shenoy of the Samiti. He added that the report speaks about the way Mumbaikars commute by various modes of transport, analyses vehicles entering city through different entry points daily , and brings to the fore major transportation problems faced by rail and road users.
 
 Metro and monorail comprises close to 2% of the city's total commuters, the report added. Latest Metro statistics show that daily ridership increased to 3.6 lakh in 2017.
 
 “An analysis of traffic counts on the outer periphery (cordon) shows that 5.65 lakh vehicles enter or leave Mumbai daily . Major traffic handling corridors are Western Express Highway and Sion-Panvel Highway with 28% trafficvehicle load shared by each, followed by Eastern Express Highway (20% load), Mulund-Airoli Bridge (13.5%), Lal Bahadur Shastri Road (11%) and Gorai Uttan Road (0.5%),“ the report mentions and adds that the population of private cars had increased on these stretches leading to peak-hour traffic snarls at several locations. Traffic on Western Express Highway , especially on the JogeshwariKandivli stretch, was a nightmare during peak hours.
 
 While agreeing that public transport needs to be given a push, Ashok Datar of Mumbai Environmental Social Network said, “Let us have an integrated approach. If we start the odd-even pilot project in Mumbai, nearly 40% cars will be off roads and the available road space can be used to de marcate bus lanes. We should initially restrict only to Western Express Highway in the morning southwards and in the evening northwards. It should be accompanied by kerb side bus lane. BEST should run 60-100 buses per hour of which one-third should be AC. A bus carries the load of eight cars and occupies less road space.“
 
  ch is demarcating roads to create dedicated bus lanes. Once that is done, you can expect buses to arrive on time and with good frequency . The state and civic authorities should supportfund the BEST undertaking and ensure there are 1,000 new air-conditioned buses on roads for daily commute to dissuade citizens from using private vehicles,“ they added.
 
