Gurgaon: If there are any gripes Bengalis (or, for that matter, others) nurse about Puja season, it is that these gatherings have lost their intimacy, become unmoored from tradition.

  Well, there are two Pujas here embodying two Gurgaons — one old and the other new — that are as embracing of the sacred and the traditional as any around, and which still retain a glow of informality.
 
  This year, residents of Maruti Vihar (Sector 28), are journeying ‘back to Bengal’ to celebrate their 27th Durgotsav. In Vatika City, meanwhile, the young and the elderly eagerly await their third Durga Puja, one that earnestly reflects the city’s myriad communities.
 
  For the Maruti Vihar Durgotsav Committee, this Puja is a homecoming of sorts. Artistically and decoratively, it has been inspired by the tribal art of Bengal, from the districts of Purulia, Birbhum, Bankura and West Midnapore.
 
  And while times have changed, the spirit remains the same. Rabin Chakraborty, the committee’s general secretary, remembers the cosy community feeling back in the early 1990s. “When we came here, there were just 100 or so families, and at Pujo, we’d gather and collect donations.”
 
  Inside the community centre, a pandal has been set up using the mat art of West Midnapore, the frame of sabai grass supported by a gateway made of bamboo, further reinforced by a scaffolding of hollow iron pillars. Hanging cloth paintings, of natural colours, have pride of place on the walls, displaying the culture of each of these tribal districts.
 
  Yet more traditional touches are provided by Patua art, presented in vibrant scrolls that tell the age-old story of Chandi Mangal. It’s all a feast for the eyes, and Patua artists in Bankura and West Midnapore go from village to village, bringing these paintings alive by narrating the tale through song.
 
  “We want to share with the people our traditions, let them know that India has a rich tribal culture,” shared Kaushik Bandopadhyay, joint secretary, Maruti Vihar Durgotsav Committee.
 
  Meanwhile, south of town is the popular Vatika City Puja, a “family” affair taking confident baby steps. “Puja is a big affair, and we wanted to start small, so we began with Saraswati Puja and Poila Baisakh, before taking the plunge,” explained Barsha Arora, one of the happy many involved in organising Pujo here.
 
  “We want to keep it small, close-knit and homely, but residents from other societies are always welcome to take part and volunteer.”
 
  A good mix of folks join in the cultural programs at Vatika, people from all age groups. And the fervour commences the weekend before, with the splendidly named (and open-to-all) art event, ‘Rong Bong Chong’. A selection of the artwork that emerges from this burst of creativity is then displayed through the days of Puja.
 
  For the boys and girls, there is no competition – it is all about the joy of participating and performing. For everyone else, the spirit of togetherness shines. “It’s more than just about Puja – it’s a celebration for us,” enthuses Bijita Devsharma, another of the organisers. May it always remain so!
 
 On Tuesday evening, at Vatika City,   Mondal and his group presented ‘Confluence – A Musical Journey’, an attempt to bring to light the influence of Hindustani classical music on light classical. 
 
 Mondal, 84, is a classically trained vocalist who moved to Gurgaon in 2004. He can count among his gurus his elder brother   Mondal, from whom he received much of his formal training, as well as Rabindra Sangeet singer  . Others who influenced him were Siddheshwar Mukherjee (who he calls his ‘bade guruji’), the illustrious Pandit T L Rana, Baul singer Purna Das Baul, and tabla legend Karamatullah Khan.
 
  Mondal has been singing for more than 40 years, and began teaching way back in the 1960s. He is now a guru to the young, endeavouring to keep the flame of Hindustani Classical burning.
 
 
