PUNE: A   for want of timely help from passers-by after he was run over by a vehicle on Wednesday shows callousness among people living in cities.

 Psychiatrist   said, “We are losing human touch in every sphere of life. Clicking photos and taking videos of a person needing emergency help is nothing but perversion. This shows increasing social alienation in people living in cities. There is tremendous social disconnect everywhere.”
 
 Tragically, the nearest trauma hospital was just 2km away from the spot in Bhosari where the man had bled severely before succumbing to his injuries. “This incident has revealed that we have become emotionally blunt. And taking photos of a suffering human being and not extending help is perversion,” psychiatrist Kaustubh Joag said.
 
 Despite the Supreme Court’s directives that no person helping an accident victim should be harassed in any way, people still avoid offering help and making small attempts like calling an ambulance and getting emergency help for people involved in on-road accidents. The Supreme Court’s directive issued in March 2016 provides guidelines for police so that Good Samaritans are protected against any  . 
 
 However, the awareness about it is poor. Good Samaritan are the people who help  . “Mass media tools, including television and radio, should be used to spread awareness about these directives. This will motivate people to come forth and help people involved in accidents, thus, saving many precious lives,” road safety adviser Kalyanaraman Venkatesan said. 
 
 Deepika Bhargava, one Good Samaritan in Pune who saved the life of a girl in a road accident last monsoon, said, “People do feel that they will be caught between police and legal wrangles if they help persons involved in accidents. They should be made aware that their selfless act will not entail any harassment.” 
 
 A few directives should also be issued for hospitals as well for the safety of Good Samaritans. “The government needs to invest in publicising the directives of the Supreme Court to create awareness and bring about a change in people’s mind-set,” ophthalmologist Sanjay Patil, vice-president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune chapter, said.
 
 When contacted, Ashok Morale, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “I have assumed the charge recently. I will definitely make efforts to sensitize people about the Supreme Court’s directives. This is an important issue. I had made substantial efforts to create awarenss about this during my tenure in Hingoli.”
 
 
 
 
 Experts have said the surveillance cameras put up at various locations across the city can be used to monitor need of emergency care on roads. “They can be used optimally to enhance our response to medical emergencies including road traffic accidents. We need to work on this concept,” said emergency care expert Dnyaneshwar Shelke, head of state-run 108 ambulance service.
 
