NEW DELHI: Launching a scathing criticism of the Centre’s Kashmir policy,   said PM   had destroyed peace in J&K and created space for terrorists to step in.

 Speaking at the University of California in Berkeley, Rahul said BJP’s decision to tie up with PDP was a strategic mistake. “PDP was the instrument that brought Kashmiri youngsters into the political process. And the day Modi made an alliance between PDP and BJP, it destroyed PDP as an instrument that could bring youngsters into the political system… he massively opened up space for terrorists in Kashmir and they came in. And you saw a massive increase in violence,” he said.
 
 Claiming a large number of PDP members had drifted towards militants following the tie-up with BJP, he said the move to gain political advantage had hurt the country.
 
 “Today, the space in J&K has been opened up, not only for the Pakistanis but for other players in the region. And it is going to impose a massive, massive strategic cost on India,” he said.
 
 The Congress vice-president, however, praised the PM for his “communication skills” and said he liked the ideas of ‘Make in India’ and Swachh Bharat.
 
 Stating that “Modi is also my PM”, Rahul said, “He has certain skills. He’s a very good communicator. Probably much better than me. He understands how to give a message to three or four different groups in a crowd. So his messaging abilities are very subtle and very effective. What I sense is that he doesn’t converse with the people he works with.”
 
 Rahul admitted “a certain arrogance” had crept into Congress around 2012 when it snapped its connect with people which was required to carve out new policies as the policies crafted in 2004 had stopped working — the reason behind its massive defeat in Lok Sabha polls.
 
 He said the Centre’s “reckless”   without consultation with government experts, and the hastily-implemented GST, had caused “tremendous damage” to the economy, with notebandi a “self-inflicted wound” which cost 2% of GDP.
 
 Rahul said the country was not producing enough jobs, saying 30,000 youngsters were joining the job market every day while only 500 jobs were being created daily. He lamented that the entire system was geared towards 100 big companies. He, however, noted that India could not follow the coercive system of China to create jobs.
 
 Rahul also criticised Modi’s foreign policy, saying while he agreed with the need to have closer ties with the US, it should not lead to isolation of India. Citing the downside, he said the Chinese had made their presence in every neighbouring country while India’s balance with Russia and Iran had been disturbed.
 
 
