NEW DELHI:   won India's lone medal on the opening day of the   in the Capital on Friday. But her achievement was not the only bright spot for the hosts at the  .

 Air Force's Deepak Kumar banked on his decade-long learnings at a gurukul in Dehradun to come close a medal in his maiden World Cup appearance. Competing in the 10m air rifle event, he stayed in contention for a medal halfway through the final before finishing fifth.
 
  also showed a lot of promise to qualify for the final in the same event. He finished eighth.
 
 Pooja, 28, gave India a solid start, clinching the women's 10m air rifle bronze in a tough competition, which was won by China's Mengyao Shi, who set a new world record with 252.1 points in the final. Lijie Dong, also of China, took the silver with 248.9 while Pooja had a score of 228.8.
 
 It could have been a clean sweep for China but for Pooja who came up with a brilliant 10.8 in the final to eliminate Mingyang Wu. What makes Pooja's medal even more special was that she shot some high-scoring shots without her blinder. 
 
 "My blinder fell off during the final and it was a bit difficult to shoot. It just happened and I reacted the best way I could have by just closing one eye and focusing with the other," Pooja said. It was first World Cup medal for Pooja in her third appearance in a final and she credits her success to her mentor, ace air rifle shooter   who she said helped her both mentally and technically.
 
 "Everyone wants the top medal but I am satisfied. I had no expectations. It is a good start to the year. Gagan Narang helped me a lot. Whatever he told me yesterday (Thurs day), I tried out today and it worked."
 
 Narang, who was in the stands to cheer for Pooja, commended her on clinching the medal despite the blinder incident. "She improvised quite a lot when the blinder fell off. The main quality of a shooter ­ improvisation. She handled it well."
 
 Pooja had the second-best score in the qualifiers and made it to the final with 418, behind Mengyao.
 
 Deepak overcame a bad start in the qualifiers to make it to the final in fourth position while Ravi was sixth out of eight who made it to the title round. Deepak fired consistently high scores to be in the hunt for a medal, but a couple of average shots spoiled his chances.
 
 Expectations were high from Deepak and Ravi as they were competing in an event in which India won its only individual Olympic gold. The gold was won by China's Buhan Song with a world record score of 249.5. There was disappointment in store for India's women trap shooters as Rajeshwari Kumari (17th),   (22nd) and   (29th) failed to make it to the final. 
 
