New Delhi: In a significant development, for the first time a Delhi minister will be taking on the role of chairman of state PSU Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructural Development Corporation ( ). Industries minister   will take over as chairman and the current chairman-cum-managing director, senior IAS officer KR Meena, will cease to be chairman but continue to be MD. The government’s decision has the approval of the lieutenant governor, Anil Baijal.

 The state government is portraying the decision as a step for giving impetus to DSIIDC’s functioning. Interestingly, Meena is the same officer who had last year reportedly written a letter to chief minister  , seeking an apology for the latter’s behaviour during a meeting on a matter related to DSIIDC in the presence of Jain.
 
 It will be interesting to see how the equations between the new chairman and the bureaucratic brass at DSIIDC evolve. However, top sources in the government maintained that after the high court judgement on powers of LG and CM, it is clear that services are under the jurisdiction of LG. Hence, the decision to make the minister chairman has nothing to do with Meena or any other officer.
 
 This post has always been held by a senior   except once during the Congress regime when then chief minister Sheila Dikshit bifurcated the post, putting MLA Hasan Ahmed (Mustafabad constituency) in the chair. However, after Ahmed’s tenure, during Congress rule, DSIIDC returned to the practice of having senior bureaucrats as CMD. 
 
 According to sources, it was felt that since Jain is the industries minister, he will be able to expedite development work being undertaken in unauthorized colonies by DSIIDC. The AAP government’s core constituency comprises poor and low-income settlements and, hence, development work in these colonies is critical for it.
 
 Jain is also minister in-charge of urban development and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board which are steering the work on slum relocation and rehabilitation. DSIIDC has a large housing pool ready for the EWS category that has been awaiting allottees for many years.
 
 
