KOLKATA: If you have to teach them well, you better start young. Taking this   to heart, a number of schools in the city have started to instruct pupils about what constitutes  , and are also taking steps to guard against this malpractice by installing  

 Anti-plagiarism steps have, so far, been taken mostly at institutes of higher learning, most notably by the IITs and IIMs, where the copy-pasting of PhD theses has been a vexed issue. Now that schoolkids are also becoming increasingly dependent on the internet for homework or project work, the problem has started early.
 
 At The Heritage School, students have strictly been asked to adhere to the rules. “We have told them that they should read the relevant information two or three times and then express the idea in their own words,” said principal Seema Sapru. “The students have been asked to try to integrate information from several sentences into one sentence in their own words. If information is taken from the public domain, such as websites, it has to be recorded — including the date on which each website has been accessed. URLs should be mentioned. The same rules are to be followed for copying passages from CD-ROMs, DVDs, emails and journals.”
 
 Among some of the other rules being framed by several schools are ones that make students aware that being careful in their approach will protect them against libel. 
 
 Schools have instructed students to enclose quoted material in quotation marks, and even provide source citations for indirect material they may have paraphrased. “This is because the idea here is not original, but taken from someone else,” pointed out Sapru. 
 
 What happens if a student is suspected to have been dishonest? The final decision is to be taken by the principal. “The matter will be investigated and the student given a chance to reply to the accusations. If found guilty, parents will be informed and appropriate action taken. If a student plagiarises, s/he will be suitably penalised for the entire assignment,” the principal said. The school has subscribed to the Turnitin software to check for plagiarism.
 
 At South City International School, too, strict norms are in place to check for copying. “We often find that it is actually the parents who resort to such unfair means,” said principal John Bagul. “They get over-ambitious and over-involved in a child’s homework. Often, parents are not satisfied with the project that the child has done. We mostly try to ensure that projects are completed during school hours. Or else, it is a group activity, where pupils in the same locality are given a task. We have also installed Turnitin,” he added.
 
 The software checks purportedly original work against works published online and gives out a measure of the extent of plagiarism. Using this software, if a teacher finds out that a student has copied, “the project is cancelled and a zero is given,” Bagul said, adding, “We initially penalised some students but now that the students have been made aware of what constitutes plagiarism, such incidents ave been significantly lowered.”
 
 At Delhi Public School Ruby Park, teachers check online through anti-plagiarism software whenever there is any doubt regarding the projects. “The students are constantly warned against any such lifting or copying that can land them in trouble. Though we don’t subscribe to any software, the teachers check online through the ones that are readily available,” said principal Anushree Ghosh.
 
 Anuradha Das, director of Garden High International School and chief academic advisor of the Satikanta Guha Foundation, feels software that are available have become very helpful in preventing “short-cut” methods to succeed. “We have installed Turnitin, through which teachers run the projects before submission. We have been satisfied in our attempt,” she said.
 
 At Calcutta International School, Turnitin is the go-to software whenever a student submits a project. “We always run the project through the software and then accept it. If the student acknowledges sources, projects are accepted. Depending on the level and amount of plagiarism, a penalty is fixed. If it is the first offence, we return the project and ask them to re-work it. But repeated offenders are awarded a zero. We have an academic honesty policy in place, where the child has to respect and acknowledge others’ work. They can’t copy-paste. The policy is distributed among parents at the beginning of the academic year,” said principal Munmun Nath.
 
 
