THANE: A creativity centre aimed at encouraging budding scientists and innovators in the city was inaugurated alongside the Kachrali Lake on Thursday. 

 The one-storey centre named Dr Abdul   Creativity Centre, brainchild of the city-based   founder   and the Thane Municipal Corporation ( ) was inaugurated at the hands of Sanjay More, city Mayor. 
 
 The centre is stocked up with electronic spare parts, circuit boards, soldering irons, magnifying glasses, cutters, broad boards, et al to innovate projects that can be easily detached to be modified or reused. 
 
 Pachpande, who has been encouraging children to come up with innovative projects at the Children’s Tech Centre, said, “Dr Kalam was a scientist closely associated with education. He advised students to dream, think, acquire knowledge and put that knowledge to use in order to attain true success. I have tried to inculcate this in my classes. While I started imparting knowledge about the importance of hands-on experience in my centre, I really wished that every child availed these facilities. Now, with the help of the civic body, we can actually make this wish a reality.”
 
 The audio-visual technology-equipped ground floor of the centre is reserved for the tech-batches, while the terrace has been kept aside as a study and reading hall for class X and XII students. The centre is open to all children aged eight to 16 throughout the week from 10am to 10pm with two teachers designated to teach in batches of five.
 
 Anushka Wagh, a class VI student, said, “I like science, and want to learn robotics. But, as I already have dance and singing classes, I didn’t ask my parents before. Now I can come down with my parents and join the tech centre while they take their daily walk.”
 
 The children will be taught the basics of electricity, circuits and resources in the first phase of three months after which they will be taught the mechanical and core knowledge of the course.
 
 City Mayor More said, “We have a lot of talent hiding in every child in the city, and it is high time that we set up such platforms to not only bring out those skills, but also sharpen them. If successful, we can set up such centres across the city over time.”
 
