MUMBAI: For 3,000   spread across the country, financial help for their   arrived differently. Urban investors of a debt   their dividends to fund the treatment that worked out to Rs 80 crore over the last seven years.

 The brainchild of NGO Indian Cancer Society (ICS) and HDFC AMC Ltd, the Cancer Cure Fund sanctions between Rs 3 and 4 lakh per patient. At a recent meeting of 16 beneficiary hospitals held at ICS's Parel office, doctors spoke about how the fund had transformed the lives of poor patients.
 
 “As our fund gives up to Rs 4 lakh to each patient, covering their entire treatment, they don't have to visit various donors for small donations. It is a one-stop funding mechanism," said former governor of  , Usha Thorat, who is associated with the fund.
 
 Doctors of   in Parel, which is one of the biggest beneficiaries, recently completed an analysis of the scheme, underlying how useful it has been for patients. “We looked at 1,116 patients who received treatment up to 2014 and found that 65% are still alive and disease-free,“ said Dr Tushar Vora of Tata Memorial Hospital. “Of these patients, 75% had blood cancer and 25% had solid tumours. Around 40% of the patients were under 15 years of age.“
 
 Thorat said, “If not for this fund, the majority of these patients would not have undergone any treatment." This was borne out by the experiences of doctors form farflung states. Dr Sheikh Aziz of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Sringar said that 200 patients had got financial assistance worth Rs 4 crore over the last four years. “Whenever we have a patient who cannot afford treatment, we send his her papers to the ICS and we get a clearance quite quickly,“ he said.
 
 Dr Ravi Kannan from   in Assam said that such funding mechanisms are important because patients can seek treatment nearby and not have to travel far for treatment. "If they have to travel more for chemotherapy and followup visits, there will be a higher chance of the patient dropping out of treatment.This is the biggest challenge," he said.
 
