PUNE: The   is functioning without adequate   at its   centre to tide over emergencies involving staffers and passengers, as its three-year contract with   ended last month.

 This came to light after an Air India staffer suffered a cardiac arrest on Tuesday afternoon, following which he was rushed to the medical   located near the arrival area. As the doctor at the medical centre was not present and his phone was switched off, the staffer, Nitin Joshi (55), was rushed to the Jehangir Hospital in an ambulance. The senior mechanical engineer is recuperating in the hospital now.
 
 An Air India official told TOI that the   (AAI) had arranged for the ambulance for its staffer. “He was in a critical condition. As the doctor was not present at the medical centre, we had to rush him to the hospital. The doctors in the hospital said the cardiac attack could have been fatal had there been further delay,” the official said on Wednesday.
 
 When the   authorities sought an explanation from the general manager of the medical facility, which was being run by the Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital for three years, they were dismayed to learn from the senior officials at the hospital that the contract between them and the Pune airport ended last month.
 
 “We have not received any notice on this from the Pune AAI. Our contract expired in June,” Rekha Dubey, chief executive officer of the hospital, told TOI.
 
 Sources said tthe medical facility at the airport was started in June 2014 with the Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital getting the contract to run it for three years. But as the contract came to an end, the process of renewal as per the existing terms and conditions was still on.
 
 “When the person suffered the cardiac arrest, he was rushed to the medical center. The doctor was on the airport premises but not at the center and his phone was switched off. We wasted no time and took him to the private hospital. We will call the general manager of the hospital and ask him the reason as to why the doctor was not present. The contract might have ended, but the hospital was verbally asked to provide medical facilities at the airport,” a senior airport official told TOI.
 
 Airport director Ajay Kumar said, “I am out of town and will get back with details tomorrow (Thursday).”
 
 Aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said, “It is a matter of concern that the medical unit at the airport was unmanned when an airline staffer needed emergency medical care. It defeats the purpose of having a medical unit at the airport.” 
 
 
