NAGPUR: The   National Open University (Ignou) is bringing in reforms to emerge as a digital platform rather than remaining just a distance learning institute. The convocation gives us a sense of satisfaction for the efforts taken in providing quality education from urban spaces to hinterlands, said regional director P Sivaswaroop during the 30th convocation ceremony of Ignou at Gurunanak Bhavan, NU campus, on Thursday. 

 In all, 1,631 degrees — masters, undergraduate, diploma and post-graduation — were conferred on students from all walks of life and different age groups. 
 
 The main event was held at New Delhi while 56 regional centres simultaneously conducted the function. At Nagpur centre, vice-chancellor of Nagpur University SP Kane was the guest of honour. 
 
 Jail inmates Vijay Mahakalkar and Shyamrao Tarachand, who are serving lifetime imprisonment, were awarded BA and MA degrees respectively while Narayan Chowdhary, who has been sentenced to death, received MA degree. 
 
 Nagpur’s Gunja Sanjay Joshi received gold medal in PG Diploma in Analytical Chemistry (PGDAC) in New Delhi for securing first position in All India merit list.
 
 Ignou’s Nagpur centre covers entire Vidarbha and three Marathwada districts. Sivaswaroop said, “We want to empower people academically, irrespective of their social, geographical or economic background. IGNOU has exempted fees for people from SC, ST, prisoners and weavers. Moreover, we are collaborating with leading companies to provide placements and industrial exposure to students.”
 
 Jamshed Kapoor, who runs an NGO and obtained a BA Major in Hindi, said, “The quality of education here outshines most other major universities in the country. Ignou’s has a plethora of courses to offer while the curriculum is updated and in sync with the current scenario.”
 
 The multiple attempts provided to clear a paper is a salient feature of Ignou, said Nitesh Pandya and added, “Coming from a Hindi background, I pursued BCom in English to enhance my language skills without bothering about failure.”
 
 Expert member at  , Chandrapal Choukasey completed his Masters in rural development. He said, “I wanted to gain knowledge for boosting rural tourism. A course at Ignou made this possible.”
 
 Trainer for clinical research and former scientist at Neeri NG Swarnakar took up MBA to enhance his teaching skills. He said, “I understood concept of economics and developed my technical expertise. The convenience provided by Ignou here helped me follow my pursuit.”
 
 (With inputs from Mayank Gurnani)
 
 TAKING THE NEW PATH
 
 * NG Swarnakar | 77, retired scientist at Neeri and runs Academy for Ethical Clinical Research
 
 MBA (HR Management) to sharpen his technical skills
 
 *   | principal at SS International School
 
 Pursued PG diploma in School Leadership Management to bring more efficiency in her school 
 
 * Palash Soni | 25 year old
 
 BA (Animation) and aims to create a hub for animators in the city
 
 * Amrit Walia | BA 
 
 Pursued MA (psychology) and working on a project concerning mental health of convicts at Central Jail
 
 * Umesh Devgade | aircraft maintenance engineer at Nagpur Flying Club 
 
 BSc Honours (Physics). Will make him eligible for appearing in competitive exams
 
