MANGALURU: Here is a good news for Indian citizens travelling to US having relatives in the   They are now eligible for a visa on arrival in the  , including  

 To qualify, the traveller needs to have a US visitor visa or green card and the passport should have at least six months validity.
 
 The UAE visa on arrival is for a maximum stay of 14 days and costs AED 100 (roughly Rs 1,750 at today’s exchange rates). One can extend the stay by an additional 14 days once , by paying a renewal fee of AED 250.
 
 William D’Souza, MD, Globe Travels, says this is a welcome move which will help Indians having kin in the Middle East to break the journey and visit them. He suggests that it would present a better option to use the facility while travelling back from the US since the connectivity to India is usually late in the night. “The travellers will have a minimum of 10-12 hours break in between and they can utilize it to visit relatives or go shopping or sightseeing,’’ he said.
 
 D’Souza, who was in Dubai last week for the  , says UAE has realized the potential and the need to tap its tourism potential. He says that in the near future Indians may also get visa on arrival as the authorities have realized that Indians, barring working class, have integrity and come for tourism related activities or business purposes only and not in search of employment. “This has been suggested to the authorities, who have assured to give the proposal a due consideration,’’ he added.
 
 All the major airline operators having flights to the Middle East said they have received a circular and will allow the passengers, meeting the said conditions, to fly to Dubai without obtaining a visa prior to boarding.
 
 This arrangement has cost benefit too. A normal Dubai visa costs anywhere between Rs 5,500 to Rs 6,500 per trip depending on days of stay, with a maximum stay of 30 days per visit. 
 
 The US visa holder can forego the formality of applying for a visa through an agent and waiting for a week plus save nearly 65% of the money paid for a visa applied through an agent for a 14 day visa.
 
 
