Navi Mumbai: The standing committee’s   on expenditure in the   was adjourned on Tuesday after a heated argument between NCP corporator, J D Sutar, and civic commissioner  . The argument was over administration’s proposal to repair the Mother Child Hospital in Koparkhairane instead of rebuilding it, as suggested by general body. There was no discussion on allocations in budget.

 When Mundhe was briefing about the administration’s plans to enhance the medical facilities in the city, corporator Shubangi Patil, started questioning him about the non-functional Urban Health Post in Turbhe. 
 
 Mundhe replied that the elected body did not even approve the administration’s proposal to start repairsat the hospital, hence the UHP proposal was also stalled. The reply angered Sutar and he sought for an adjournment.
 
 “The commissioner blindly goes about blaming elected representatives for delay in implementing any project. The hospital was shut down as it was termed dilapidated, so how can the administration suggest repairs, in spite of general body’s instruction for reconstruction,” said Sutar.
 
 The second day had corporators stating development works expected to be undertaken by the administration. The projects included developing tourist spots, upgrading medical facilities, better education, concretized internal roads and more community toilets in slums. The corporators taunted Mundhe for not attending any of the standing committee meeting and being “unaware about civic problems”. 
 
 Mundhe became aggressive when corporators raised issues such as demolition of PAP homes, lack of teaching staff in civic schools and maintenance of newly planted trees.
 
 “I cannot keep silent over such allegations when they have no base. Every action undertaken during my tenure is as per the norms laid. I was willing to respond to every question but the committee kept on interrupting and eventually stopped me from responding,” said Mundhe.
 
 Meanwhile BJP corporator of ward 107, Deepak Pawar, supported the tax revision proposed in the Mundhe’s budget.
 
