TRICHY: DMK   member   is embroiled in a controversy with his son accusing him of attempting to separate him from his Christian wife by indirectly intimidating her and her mother with dire consequences. Dismissing the allegation of threatening, Siva told TOI on Wednesday that he was concerned about his son’s life and future.

 Siva’s son Surya Manivannan, 27, alleged that unknown persons threatened his wife Prathusha, 29, and her mother Premakumari over phone to leave Surya. He also alleged that the threatening calls were made at the behest of Siva who allegedly opposed the inter-religious marriage of his son. 
 
 Surya and Prathusha got married on June 25, 2013 secretly. They showed a registered marriage certificate at a press meet in   on Tuesday. 
 
 “My father is hell bent to separate my wife from me for the only reason that she belongs to other religion. He was opposing my love with her and was not interested to allow me to marry her. Being a propaganda leader of the   which works for the equality in the society, he should have accepted my love for Prathusha. But he failed to do so then. Even now, he threatens them indirectly which forces me to bring the matter to the media to protect them,” Surya told TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 Surya claimed that he had attempted to bring the issue to the notice of DMK chief M Karunanidhi and working president MK Stalin but his efforts had gone in vain. “My father feels my inter-religious marriage would affect his political career. I was unable to take the issue to the notice of the DMK leadership due to the influence of my father,” said Surya. 
 
 Since the death of his mother in 2014, Surya has been living with his wife in a separate house while Siva was residing alone. Surya claimed that his father was looking for a bride for Surya from their own community and again started forcing Prathusha to leave him. 
 
 Reacting to the allegation, Siva said he had never threatened them and the difference of age between the woman and Surya was the only thing worrying him. 
 
 “I have not threatened them earlier as well as now. As a father, I am concerned about my son’s life and future. I had a difference of opinion with him for marrying a woman much older than him. His allegation of threatening them is baseless,” the MP told TOI over phone on Wednesday. 
 
 However, Surya said the age difference between her and him was a couple of years only. “Age difference is not a constraint to my father but my inter-religious marriage is his problem,” he said. 
 
