BENGALURU: Where lies the origin of life on Earth? How are new planets born? What do we know about the beginning of the universe? 
 , senior scientific adviser, science and exploration,   (ESA), can speak for hours on end about science and astronomy. During his visit to the city as part of the British Council’s lecture series, the former professor of astrophysics at the  , the UK, engaged with students, discussing the development and scope of science and astronomy. He was part of the team that launched the Rosetta (comet orbiter/lander) which rendezvoused with comet 67P and returned successfully in September 2016. TOI spoke to McCaughrean on the space mission, astronomy for students and the future of Europe-India ties in space explorations. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 It’s a little too early to give it a medal for changing anything in the field of astronomy. The project itself started in 1985, when the idea sparked. In 1986, we had sent another mission to Comet Halley, but it only passed through it, capturing data from a distance and for a few minutes. What we really wanted was for the mission to travel with the comet, land on its surface and gather some material that could explain a lot about the solar system, the universe as a whole, and also the origins of Earth. My visit to Bengaluru is as part of this initiative, where I speak to students about the range of missions we have at the ESA (whether planetary or astronomical).
 
 
 
 
 Since the mission ended only last year, deciphering the results will take some time. Because of the geological changes it underwent, it isn’t possible to know from Earth as to how it originated. Comets may have some of the answers as they have remained unchanged for 4.5 billion years. For one, we are attempting to find where the water on Earth came from. While it didn’t have a waterbody in the beginning, we have questions about whether it came from the rocks (internally) or from comets (externally). Furthermore, we also know that there are molecules on comets that are building blocks of life.
 
 
 
 
 Satellites near the Earth (low earth orbit) pose bigger threats than the ones farther away. As they have a higher density when they are closer to the Earth, there is a danger of them colliding, especially when we are sending more of them to space. This is called the Kessler Syndrome which could have a cascading effect if they collide. Debris from satellites could wipe out most of the other satellites in just a week’s time. The   faces a similar threat as it gradually comes closer to the Earth. Therefore, we have to keep pushing it back through various missions once in every few years. A lot of work is going on to clean space. The older satellites are pulled back closer to the Earth’s atmosphere where they automatically burn because of the heat. But in the long run, critics must also understand that the satellites are there for everyone’s use. It isn’t possible for phones, internet, televisions or even GPS to work without them. From farmers to babies, everyone needs the satellites.
 
 
 
 
 Just two days ago, India sent 104 satellites in a single launch which is extremely impressive. India is definitely a major player in space science. The ESA and   have been collaborating for decades, and our previous project was Chandrayaan-1, for which we had provided instrumentation and testing facilities. We at ESA are very keen to get into more collaborations with Isro, either on specific missions or in the exchange of scientists in sharing more information.
 
