AGRA: Six persons were beaten up by a mob of   for allegedly   inside the premises of dairy unit owned by a Hindu in  . Police on Friday booked six people, including the dairy owner, but no action was taken against the vigilantes, alleged the dairy owner’s family members. 

 Aligarh senior superintendent of police Rajesh Pandey told TOI that the dairy owner, Kallu Baghel, had asked some people to take away his buffalo, which was sick and had stopped giving milk. The SSP said five people came to his house and allegedly slaughtered the animal in the compound of the dairy.
 
 According to the police, Imran, a cattle trader, offered to buy the animal on the condition that the dairy owner allows him to slaughter the animal on his premises only. During slaughtering, the animal’s blood flowed out of the dairy compound which was noticed by local residents in Pannaganj locality. A mob soon gathered on the spot and started thrashing those slaughtering the buffalo. Later, police managed to control the situation.
  
 According to police, six people, including dairy owner Kallu Baghel, Sonveer, Vinod, Chhottu, Bunty and Imran, were booked for voluntarily causing hurt, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace, criminal intimidation and mischief by killing cattle. 
 
 Suresh Kumar, Kallu Baghel’s elder brother, alleged the police have not taken any action against the people who had brutally thrashed his brother and others. He said if his brother was guilty of slaughtering an animal, those who assaulted him were guilty too and police should take action against them.
 
 The dairy owner’s 12-year-old daughter, Ruby, who was in tears, told TOI that his father used to take care of the sick buffalo every day but it was not getting well, so he decided to sell it off. 
 
 When contacted, circle officer Pankaj Srivastava said the matter is under investigation and action would be taken against whosoever is found guilty.
 
 BJP’s Aligarh city general Secretary Sandesh Rana, who filed the complaint against the dairy owner and others, said that they were doing illegal activities and hence action was taken. He, however, claimed that those who thrashed the accused were local residents.
 
