PANAJI: After months of silence, the   (AAP) finally revealed its stance on two contentious issues which are directing the political discourse of the state. AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Elvis Gomes stated that if voted to power, the party would continue the grants that were being provided to schools and keeping Dabolim international airport would be given more priority than developing  . 

 “Existing grants to schools will be continued. AAP is committed to affordable and quality education for all. MoI should not be decided by politicians or language protagonists,” Gomes said as the party released its main manifesto, besides adding that it would set up a committee of expert educationists to resolve the issue, and efforts would be taken to protect and promote local languages. 
 
 Talking about their opinion on the viability of having two airports in Goa, the party is of the view that Dabolim must be prioritized over Mopa. 
 
 “The government will ensure the continuation of Dabolim airport for civil and traffic. We will do everything possible to upgrade and expand Dabolim. We will investigate the Mopa project for speculative private land deals of more than 50 lakh sqm around Mopa,” Gomes said, affirming that Mopa is a major land grab scam. 
 
 The issue was further raised by AAP’s candidate from Navelim, Sidharth Karapurkar, and Devendra Prabhudesai, who will be contesting from Mandrem. Both were earlier involved with the issue as activists.
 
 “The main problem is lack of parking space and the requirement of an additional taxi way so that air traffic can be managed in a better way. When   was the leader of opposition, he had requested the center to consider Goa as part of India and provide extra land from  . Now even after being the defence minister, he is trying to close it down,” Karapurkar said.
 
 Devendra Prabhudesai alleged that in the garb of Mopa, excess land from the locals, at a much lower-than-the-market rate has been taken to be sold to hoteliers, golf courses and other industrialists. 
 
 
