Mumbai: In a major relief, the Bombay high court set aside an order passed by the Competition Commission of India ( ) which had directed a probe by its director general against the top-three cellular operators over allegations by   of “cartelisation”. A bench of Justices Anoop Mohta and Bharati Dangre rejected arguments by Reliance   and held, “All the writ petitions are maintainable.”

 Reliance Jio Infocomm had complained to the CCI about how the cellular operators had “ganged up” to prevent it from building its customer base by delaying and denying its request for points of interconnection (PoIs) and alleged that it amounted to anti-competitive action through cartelisation. The PoIs were meant to facilitate calls and mobile number portability between consumers of different cellular operators.
 
 Idea Cellular,  , Bharati   and the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) had moved the HC to challenge a majority decision of the CCI passed on April 21 in response to Jio’s complaint of cartelisation and abuse of dominant position by them. The operators had denied allegations of anti-competitive conduct. Their case was that CCI “ignored undisputed facts” and its order was “self contradictory” and didn’t even arrive at an opinion of abuse of dominant position.
 
 “Every majority decision — a decision taken by majority of cellular operators — cannot be termed as ‘cartelisation’,” held the HC, upholding arguments made by the cellular operators. “Even ex-facie service providers and its association COAI have not committed any breaches of any provisions of the Competition Act,” the HC order said. 
 
 The HC held that it had territorial jurisdiction to hear the challenge to even all the consequential actions/notices of the director. “The telecommunication sector is governed, regulated, controlled and developed by authorities under the Telegraph Act, the   Regulatory Authority of India Act (  Act) and related regulations, rules, circulars, including all government policies. All the ‘parties’, ‘persons’, ‘stakeholders’, ‘service providers’, ‘consumers’ and ‘enterprise’ are bound by the statutory contracts, apart from policies and customs.”
 
 Accepting the stand of the existing top three cellular operators Vodafone, Idea and Bharti Airtel, the HC significantly held that interpretation or clarification of any “contract clauses”, “unified licence”, “interconnection agreements”, “quality of service regulations”, “rights and obligations” arising from these regulations have to be decided by TDSAT and not by the authorities under the Competition Act. “The Competition Act itself is not sufficient to decide and deal with the issues arising out of the provisions of the TRAI Act and the contract conditions under the regulations,” said the HC, adding that, “The Competition Act governs anti-competitive agreements and issues about ‘abuse of dominant position and combinations’.” 
 
 The HC ruling, which experts say is a landmark verdict on the powers of the CCI, said that the commission had “proceeded on wrong presumption of law and usurpation of jurisdiction”. It held that “ unless the contract agreements” and related PoI issues are settled by the authority under the TRAI Act, there is no question to initiate any proceedings under the Competition Act as contracts/agreements go to the root of the alleged controversy, even under the Competition Act. The commission has no power to deal and decide the alleged “delay”, “denial”, and “congestion” of PoIs unless they are first settled finally by the TDSAT under the TRAI Act.
 
 The HC said the CCI could not direct a probe based on “vague information”. The CCI order was passed based on “irrelevant considerations, while ignoring relevant material and law”. The HC rejected an argument by the CCI that it was only an “administrative direction”.
 
 Jio had argued that the Delhi high court would have jurisdiction to hear the challenge since the CCI is based in Delhi.  , one of the three companies challenging the probe order as illegal, had pointed to a Supreme Court ruling to argue that it was exercising its right, as petitioner with substantial business interest in Maharashtra, to select a court in whose territorial jurisdiction a part of cause of action exists.
 
 The CCI order would impair their reputation, they had said, and infringe their “fundamental right”. 
 
 Advocates for Airtel and Vodafone had argued that the operators had acted in accordance with the agreement, contrary to Reliance Jio’s allegations. The arguments by Jio was that, “Separate Interconnection Agreements (ICAs) were entered into by RJIL with each of the petitioners, on substantially similar terms in 2014 and after.”It had pointed out that the CCI had found that prima facie, after months of delaying provisioning of PoIs demanded by RJIL in its letter dated June 21, 2016, it was only when they were threatened with the maximum penalty recommended by TRAI on October 20, 2016 that the petitioners took immediate action to dramatically increase provisioning of PoIs to a point where the demand of RJIL was substantially met in a matter of days following the TRAI recommendations.
 
 The HC had placed the probe by the DG on hold all this while and now with the CCI order quashed by the HC, it stands deleted unless the Supreme Court overrules it.
 
 
