VARANASI: BJP state president   had to face an awkward situation when a group of party workers indulged in slogan-shouting in protest against the ticket distribution at the Kashi Kshertra office, Gulab Bhag, where a press conference was called on Friday. 

 The media persons were invited for the briefing about electioneering, but a visibly upset Maurya was in a hurry to conclude the press conference amid the roar and slogan-shouting of party workers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency. 
 
 The group of BJP workers assembled outside the party office started raising slogans like ‘Parivarvad nahi chalega’ and ‘wapas jao’ when Maurya arrived there. They continued shouting slogans when the press conference was going on. While leaving the conference hall, Maurya also pleaded for not shouting slogans. Some workers also tried to block the way of his vehicle when he was leaving the place, but the police and escort managed passage for him. Along with Maurya, UP in charge Om Mathur also faced the ire of disgruntled party workers at a meeting held at a motel near the Babatpur airport. They raised slogan demanding change of candidatures at several seats.
 
  While talking to reporters, he admitted that there was opposition from party workers at some seats over, but he also made it clear that there will be no change in the candidatures finalized by the central election committee of BJP. “About 90% seats were finalized after the consensus of all, hence there is no question of making any change in the list,” he said, adding that the party would listen to the grievances of party workers and convince them. 
 
 When asked about the denial of ticket to seven-time winner from Varanasi South constituency Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhury popularly knbown as Dada, Maurya said that party will keep his honour intact. “Dada humare sammanit hain, aur party unke samman ka pura khayal rakhegi,” he said, adding that the BJP is the largest democratic party, and every worker has right to keep his views. “There were several aspirants of tickets on each seats, but the ticket had to go with only one candidate. Party will take care of those who did not get tickets,” said Maurya. On an allegation that some tickets were given against cash, he said that those who level such baseless allegation are not the real BJP workers. 
 
 Maurya claimed that the BJP is going to win over 300 seats in UP polls pushing the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party to the margin. “The Congress will fail to open its account, while the SP and BSP will fail to score a half century,” he further claimed adding that the BJP will form the next government with full majority. “The BJP will keep the criminals like Mokhtar Ansari and Atiq Ahmed behind bars,” he said, adding that there will be ‘Ram Raj’ in UP after the declaration of results on March 11. When asked about his recent statement about Ayodhya Ram Mandir, he said that the temple would be constructed as per the courts’ decision. 
 
