HOWRAH: Investigations into the unnatural death of Rajat Chowdhury (45), a business facilitator of the  , Uluberia, has thrown up a question that the branch manager may find difficult to answer. Chowdhury was not a fulltime employee of the bank and wasn't authorised to handle cash. If businessman Somnath Ghosh's and his son Sayantan's claims are correct -that he did collect nearly Rs 35 lakh in 100-rupee notes from them in instalments to deposit into their account, who authorised him to do so?

 On Monday , over 48 hours after Chowdhury's mutilated body was recovered from the railway tracks, a team led by Rajesh Kumar, regional manager, Union Bank of India, and the Uluberia police went through CCTV footage at the branch and questioned branch manager   and cashier  . The footage was from between November 9, the day demonetisation came into effect, and December 30, 2016. All this went on while members of Chowdhury's family demonstrated outside.
 “The customer claims he sent money to the bank from time to time in100-rupee notes. It is being alleged that before being deposited, these notes were converted into 500and 1,000rupee notes. The fact is that Chowdhury wasn't authorised to handle cash. We are try ing to ascertain whether he did so, and who authorised him.We are communicating with our seniors,“ Kumar said after visiting the branch.
 
 The police aren't convinced with the branch manager's version. “We spoke to the branch manager but his answers to several questions aren't satisfactory. How could something like this (currency notes getting changed before being deposited) happen without the branch manager's knowledge? We will continue with the probe,“ said Sunit Kumar, SP (rural), Howrah.
 
 Sayantan Ghosh says cash was handed over to Chowdhury on the bank manager's instructions. “The bank manager should explain why he authorised Chowdhury to collect money . Chowdhury signed a confessional statement that he collected money from us,“ he said. On being asked, branch manager Chinmoy Dutta said his conscience was “clear“. Chowdhury's family , howe, maintained he was made a ver, maintained he was made a scapegoat. “Even if my brother was involved, he was murdered to keep him from spilling the beans. He purchased a smartphone a month ago and was just learning how to use it.It's impossible that he left a suicide note on Facebook. So far as the confessional statement goes, we demand a handwriting expert to find out of it was actually written by my brother. Last, but not the least, my brother had a serious injury in his left leg and could not even walk 200 paces. How could he leave his bike at the bank branch and walk 2km to the railway tracks? This was preplanned murder,“ said Chowdhury's elder brother, Pabitra.
 
 The police superintendent said that any fresh complaint, if lodged, would be looked into.The CCTV footage for the period has not been seized by the cops, though, as prior permission is required from RBI.
 
