GURUGRAM: Thirteen days after   — three Indian Star tortoises and one Red-footed   — were rescued from a   in Sohna which allegedly ran a mini zoo, the district wildlife department is yet to prepare a report in the case.

 When TOI spoke to wildlife inspector Sunil, he refused to divulge details of the whereabouts of the rescued tortoises. Meanwhile, district wildlife officer Shyam Sunder said, “I’m yet to receive a report from the wildlife inspector in the matter. I have given strict instructions for them to submit the report to me as early as possible. I think I should receive it by Monday.”
 
 Suspecting foul play, animal rights activists insisted the tortoises should immediately have been sent to a rescue centre. While the   — from northern South America — is not endangered, the Indian Star tortoise is listed as ‘vulnerable’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species, and falls under Schedule IV in the Wildlife Protection Act of India, 1972. It cannot be captured or sold.
 
 A Delhi-based activist, Naresh Kadyan, claimed to have alerted the wildlife department about the private resort running the zoo where the tortoises were kept illegally, on December 29 last year. The wildlife department rescued the four tortoises from the resort on January 2, but Kadyan said he was not satisfied with the department’s action. He filed a complaint with the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change on January 7 on this.
 
 “When I last inquired, the endangered tortoises (Indian Star tortoise) were in the custody of the wildlife inspector. It’s illegal to keep a protected species in individual custody. They should have been sent to an animal rescue centre without delay. The police also captured video clippings of the resort zoo, but no step was taken to protect the endangered species,” recalled Kadyan.
 
 He also alleged that FIR has not been registered in the case, and added he came to know of the resort zoo from a family that visited it last month.
 
 Karim Ansari, a lawyer and animal rights activist, said, “The major violation by the wildlife department in the case is that the tortoises have not been sent to a rescue centre. Even though the punishment for custody and trafficking under Schedule IV is only a monetary fine, individual officers cannot keep   with them. Also, natural habitat of tortoises is dry hilly areas and it’s not permitted to release tortoises anywhere close to Sohna.”
 
 Sources in the wildlife department said the concerned inspector fined the resort owner and swapped the endangered species of tortoise with foreign species, after the complaint was fined.
 
 
