Durgapur: Scientists at CSIR-CMERI in Durgapur have developed the country’s first intelligent and powered wheelchair that features fully electronic soft-touch control and infrared-based obstruction warning. Earlier, such wheelchairs were imported.

 Priced at about Rs 35,000, the wheelchair will be launched at CSIR-CMERI’s diamond jubilee programme at the institute auditorium. It can detect obstacles at least 1m away, which will help physical challenged and elderly people who rarely have access to domestic help. It can also scale sloping pavements while maintaining stability and high manoeuvrability. Its modular construction and collapsible foot rest, light components and interchangeable seating enhance its endurance limit (8-10 hours for a normal intermittent run) without compromising safety.
 
 CSIR-CMERI director Harish Hirani said: “The wheelchair has differential steering, fully electronic soft-touch control and infrared-based obstruction warning features. It has six wheels to enhance mobility, stability and capability to turn 360 degrees in any narrow corridor. It offers high manoeuverability to navigate smoothly on inclines. This cost-effective product has immense societal value for physically challenged and elderly people.”
 
 Regarding portability, Hirani said: “It has a foldable foot rest. Research is on to make it completely foldable. It offers manoeuvrability on slopes upto 8-9 degrees in indoor environments.”
 
 Federation of West Bengal Trade Association chairman Mahesh Kumar Singhania, a wheelchair user, said: “Quality wheelchairs are not available in Kolkata. At Rs 35,000, the price is still very high. The poor will be deprived of the intelligent wheelchair. If the government subsidises it, all sections can afford it. Those who use wheelchairs face certain problems: these cannot often be carried into a train or taken into a lift. I have four to five wheelchairs at the repair centre. Maintenance is also a problem. Wheelchair manufacturers must provide after-sales service.”
 
 
