BHUBANESWAR: They were once part of the   and made their mark in politics from there on. Today, many of them feel that people's respect associated with the institution called sarpanch has eroded though their financial power has gone up.

 Balabhadra Majhi, who started as a sarpanch (1984-85) and went on to become a minister in  's council (2002-2006), recalls how public and government officers had tremendous respect for the panchayat representatives then. 
 
 "We were inseparable part of everything in our panchayats. People had huge respect. I personally feel that is not the case now," said Majhi, a five-time MLA who represents Lanjigarh assembly segment in the current Vidhan Sabha. 
 
 "I did not spend any money to contest for sarpanch election. That is unthinkable now," he added.
 
 The   (SEC) has set an expenditure limit for a sarpanch/panchayat samiti candidate to Rs 80,000 and for zilla parishad member at Rs 2 lakh for the five-phase elections starting from February 13. The actually spending, though, may be on the higher said for many candidates, Majhi felt.
 
 Prakash Chandra Debata, who was sarpanch of Sohela panchayat in 1971, went on to become a minister in 1989. Debata, who also was a five-time MLA (the last from 2000 to 2004) recalls how people used to approach the ward members and sarpanches for solving several disputes. 
 
 "I don't see that role of sarpanch and ward members anymore," the former minister said. 
 
 "During our time panchayats were struggling for funds. That problem is not there now," he said.
 
 There are some like Srikant Sahu, a sarpanch for 10 years (1997-2007) and panchayat samiti chairman for five years before getting elected to the state assembly in 2014, who held a contrarian view. 
 
 "Financial clouts of panchayat representatives have tremendously improved because of better and direct funding of the panchayats by the government. I don't think the relevance of sarpanch or panchayati raj institution have in any way reduced," Sahu said. 
 
 The most successful politician coming from the panchayat system is  , who went on to become chief minister (1989 to 1990 and again between 1999 and 2000). Biswal was chairman of   (1967 to 1971). 
 
 Biswal could not be contacted for his views but his close aide and a minister in his council, Prakash Debata, said because of his works at the village level, Biswal understood the problems of people at the grassroots level well. "He remained rooted even after he became the chief minister," Debata said. 
 
