Launched in September 2012, Times Celebex is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ box office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of December 2016.

  and   occupy the top slots in the Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology presents Times Celebex powered by ZOOM list for the month 
 of December 2016
 Aamir Khan was in the news for the promotions and the thunderous box office collections of his Christmas release, 'Dangal', that revolves around wrestling.
 
  
  
 
 
 Randeep Hooda — Leaps from 37th rank to 25th rank - Randeep Hooda was in the news for 'Sarbjit' enterting the Oscar nominations list. 
 Ranveer Singh — Leaps from the 14th rank to the 4th - Ranveer Singh was in the news for his endorsements and his film 'Befikre'.
  — Leaps from the 36th rank to the 28th rank - Rajinikanth was in the news for the trailer launch of 'Robot 2.0' which was a huge hit.
 
  
  
 
 
 Saif Ali Khan was in the news for becoming a father for the third time. 
 Manoj Bajpayee made news for his nominations for 'Aligarh'.
 Sharman Joshi was in the news for 'Wajah Tum Ho' and his upcoming films.
 
 
  Saif Ali Khan, Manoj Bajpayee, Sharman Joshi, Gurmeet Choudhary, Manish Paul and Kartik Aryan 
 
 
  
 Deepika Padukone made news for the promotions of her first Hollywood outing, 'xXx: Return of Xander Cage'. She was also in the news for her period drama 'Padmavati' and her camarederie with Ranveer Singh. 
 
 
  
 
 
  Khan — Leaps from 43rd rank to 28th rank - Kareena Kapoor Khan was in the news for her son Taimur’s birth.
 Vidya Balan — Leaps from the 20th rank to the 14th - Vidya Balan was in the news for 'Kahaani 2' and her upcoming films.
  — Leaps from the 23rd rank to the 18th rank - Huma Qureshi was in the news for the promotions of 'Jolly LLB 2'.
 
 
  
 
 
 Kangana Ranaut was in the news for her endorsements and her next film, 'Simran'.
 Esha Gupta was in the news for her endorsements and her upcoming film 'Baadshaho'.
 Sana Khaan was in the news for her steamy scenes in 'Wajah Tum Ho'.
 
 
  Esha Gupta, Sana Khan and Kangana Ranaut.
 
 
 
 
 
  Buzz around 'Raees' and his performances at award shows kept him in the news. 
 
 
  The buzz around his upcoming films, his love life and his birthday celebrations. 
 
 
 He was in the news for 'Befikre' and his relationship with Deepika Padukone. 
 
 
  He made headlines for his endorsements, the promotions of Jolly LLB 2 and his upcoming films. 
 
 
  He was in the news for the third outing in the 'Sarkar' franchise and his endorsements. 
 
 
 The songs and promos of 'Kaabil' and his holiday with his sons made news. 
 
 
  His first appearance with his wife on a chat show and his shoot for 'Padmavati'. 
 
 
 The buzz around his forthcoming films and endorsements. 
 
 
  His chat show, TV show appearances as a judge and his endorsements made news.
 
  The buzz around her home visit and 'Quantico' kept her in the news. 
 
 
  Her father Anil’s birthday celebrations and awards for 'Neerja' kept her in the news. 
 
 
  The actress was making headlines for her multi-film deal with a top company.
 
 
  The buzz around her TV show and award show appearances. 
 
 
  The actress moved into her new house and also won awards for her performance in 'Udta Punjab'.
 
 
 She made news for 'OK Jaanu’s promotions and her friendship with Farhan Akhtar. 
 
 
  The actress was making headlines for her endorsements and her upcoming films. 
 
 
 The actress made news for her endorsements and her ‘friendship’ with Bunty Sachdeva.
 
 
  She made news for her dance number in Shah Rukh Khan’s 'Raees'. 
 
  
  
