MUMBAI: The Centre on Saturday approved the state government’s demand to   —Elphinstone Road and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus—in the city.

 The Union home ministry approved proposals to change the names of Elphinstone road station to   and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The name Prabhadevi comes from a 300-year-old temple of a Hindu deity in the area. The station is currently named after John Elphinstone, the 13th Lord Elphinstone who was governor of Bombay between 1853 and 1860.
 
 The state government has now been asked to issue a notification so that the railways can begin the process of changing the names, said an official from the state transport ministry.
 
 Political experts said that the move to   stations is an attempt by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Shiv Sena government to appease the Marathi manoos. The addition of Maharaj to Chhatrapti Shivaji Terminus is being seen as a tactic to woo the Maratha community.
 
 State transport minister Diwakar Raote said that he had been pushing for the name change since past 26 years. “I had first made the demand to change the name of Elphinstone Road station to Prabhadevi in 1999. Those residing in the locality have been demanding that the station be remained Prabhadevi for a very long time. We will complete the remaining procedures and get the new names up soon,” said Raote. 
 
 The state legislature had in December 2016 approved a bill to rename Elphinstone Road station, CST and the Mumbai airport. However, the only the   station proposals have got nods. 
 
 A state government official said, “The Union home ministry’s approval will now be moved before the law department and then to the transport ministry. A notification of change of names will be issued as soon as the proposal gets an approval from the chief minister. The process is likely to be completed by May 15.” 
 
 When the state had proposed to rename Elphinstone Road station last year, Mumbai’s historians and citizens labelled the move as an attempt to erase the city's colonial past. “Government after government is run by elements who are merely keen on tokenism. Where is Elphinstone Road and where is Prabhadevi? The two are not even remotely close. This renaming is even factually incorrect,” a longtime Mumbai watcher had said.
 
 Even as the process for renaming of these two stations is yet to begin, there is already a long list of other stations whose names politicians want changed. The list includes iconic stations like iconic Marine Lines and Dadar.
 
 
