
 
 Celebrating the smaller things in life is what adds to your love for each other. So, make each day special by recreating some romantic moments - spending your day together at home.
  
  
 
 
  Have a little celebration with coffee cups or wine glasses, which have your and your partner’s monogrammed initials. Says Tanya Mehta, interior expert, “Monogrammed gifts and household items work very well on  , as they add a personal touch.”
  
  
 
  Love letters are rare things that don’t cost a thing. If you want to be more creative, how about a picture poem? Get a picture from a postcard and then write a love poem based on the picture. Shares Nisha Khanna, family therapist,“Expressing your feelings for each other creates an atmosphere of well-being for the couple and also boosts your love.”
  
  
 
  Add the word ‘love’ with paint on your pillow, or just invest in a few heart-shaped pillows. Says Michael, “You can also colour co-ordinate the linen of your bedroom. Play up the sensuality with a red linen bedcover.”
  
  
 
  
  
 Candles have always been the quintessential romantic accessory. They bring warmth to your room. Red candles are for passion, pink for romance and white for comfort. Take your pick and add some magic to your day.
  
  
 
  How about putting your favourite romantic memories on a memory board? Create a paper decoration with messages for your loved one on a board. Says Gitanjali Sharma, therapist, “You can also frame your favourite ‘love quote’ and put it on the table for your partner to read.”
  
  
 
  This bouquet never dies. You can create a flower bouquet with crêpe paper in the colours of love like, red and pink. 
 Here’s how: Cut a 20-inch strip of crêpe paper into rounded petals. Leave about oneinch at the bottom so the strip won’t tear. Roll the crêpe paper strip around the stem or wire, fluffing and shaping the petals as you go. Or you could even create a sweet floral arrangement. Simply fill a clear vase with heart candies.
  
  
 
  Spend the day together with a love book, solving quizzes or simply cooking something together from a recipe book. Not only will you spend time together but also discover something new about one another. Says Khanna, “This is positive intimacy. Trivia, poems and recipes – sharing these will add to the celebration in a different way.”
  
  
 
  Get a woven breakfast tray and start your day in style. Dish up a yummy and simple breakfast that the two of you can enjoy in bed.   and sexologist Dawn Michael says, “It’s these wonderful little things that add a touch of intimacy to your relationship.” How about serving some heartshaped egg fry rings? A perfect way to warm up to your man’s heart through his stomach! 
