MOHALI:   police have arrested the Ludhiana-based contractor accused in schoolrooms construction scam. The role of four   School Education Board ( ) employees is also under scanner.

 Contractor Rajneesh Singh was arrested on Monday by the police following the complaint filed by PSEB Secretary J R Mehrok on the orders of the education board chairman Krishan Kumar. He was sent to judicial custody the same day.
 
 In addition, the Punjab government has ordered a fresh vigilance probe into the Rs 22.7 crore transferred, between May 2013 and February 2015, into the accounts of the contractor engaged for construction of 454 rooms for art and craft in schools across nine district of Punjab. PSEB employees under scanner include: then secretary Gurinderpal Singh Bath, sub-divisional engineer Ranjit Singh, and junior engineers   and Jaspal Singh. Bath was suspended in April this year.
 
 PSEB chairman Krishan Kumar confirmed, “Tainted contractor has been arrested by police. The vigilance is yet to submit its report with the government.” An internal probe was conducted by the committee headed by a retired IAS officer after which FIR was registered against the contractor, said Kumar. 
 
 The work in all the districts was still pending, estimated cost Rs 4.4 crore approximately, as per the reports submitted by the committee, the chairman added.
 
 
 
 
 The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) had invited tenders for construction of 454 art and craft rooms in equal number of schools under   (RMSA) in nine districts of Punjab state. Ludhiana-based contractor Rajneesh Singh was allotted the work worth Rs 22.7 crore.
 
 The work was started and PSEB transferred Rs 22.7 crore, as full payment into the account of the contractor without getting the completion certificate. Later, Rajneesh further raised demand of Rs 4.7 crore in excess for the allotted work.
 
 According to the tender document, each room was to be constructed at the cost of Rs 5 lakh. However, later one district, Fatehgarh Sahib was withdrawn from the list where 50 rooms were to be constructed in 50 schools. The work on rest of the eight districts continued but was left incomplete when inquiry was ordered for transferring of total payment into the account of the contractor.
 
