Among the many nominations filed for the Best Foreign Language Film at the  , was one with a very close Hyderabadi connection —  . It is a film about the 1991 case of the 10-year-old Hyderabadi child bride, Ameena, who was rescued by an air hostess when the former was being taken to Saudi Arabia by her 60-year-old ‘husband’. 
This film, which was Cameroon’s official entry to the  , might not have made it to the final list, but the film’s subject still holds grave relevance in Hyderabad because the selling of young girls to rich bride shoppers continues in our own backyard. As recently as 2010, a survey of 100 households in a single locality in Old City revealed that 33 families had married off their girls to bride shoppers.
 
 THERE ARE MANY, MANY AMEENAS even today
 “There are many, many Ameenas,” says activist  , who helped rehabilitate Ameena after she was rescued by airhostress  . “The trade continues, just that the modus operandi keeps changing. Back in the 70s, this was actually not the evil practice that it has metamorphasised into today. Back then, men from Gulf countries would come and marry girls here. they were treated with respect and those girls even bore children to these men. So, they were respected for their fertility and their ability to bear healthy children. But in the 90s, things changed and the practice became abusive. And one of the cases was that of Ameena’s. She was one of the fortunate girls who got saved. There are many girls who are used, abused and abandoned after a stipulated span of time.”
 
 THE SYSTEMS KEEP CHANGING
 Shaheda, an activist who has been infiltrating these circles and conducting sting operations since 2004, reveals that over the years the modus operandi has kept changing. “Once a racket is busted and their plans are foiled, the touts quickly change their style of working. There have been cases where they would take the girls to Mumbai and keep them there, till the ‘buyer’ chose to divorce them. Many nikahs have been done over phones! And that’s not even a valid marriage, without the qazi meeting the bride and the groom and his personal involvement,” says  .
 
 GIRLS FROM POOR FAMILIES ARE EASY PREY 
 That was the case of the now 16-year-old Sana, who was just 14 when she was married off to a 50-year-old Sudanese man. “The nikah was done on the phone. I was taken to Sudan and kept in a hotel for months. I kept pestering him to let me go home and visit, and I promised to return. The worst part was I did not understand what he was saying and he did not understand what I was saying. It took him months to give in, but when he did give in to my pressure to leave, it was because my health had deteriorated terribly.”
 Sana turned easy victim because she comes from a broken family. “My brother went missing in 2009, and things turned really bad since then. My father committed suicide in 2010 and my mother died in 2013. I was living with my uncle and aunt. that’s when this proposal came,” narrates Sana, who is now preparing for Class X exams. 
 Another young girl trying to reclaim her life is Muneera, who was first married off when she was just 13. “Since I came from a very poor family, in all my innocence, I got really excited at the prospect of getting married. I thought once I get married I can live in my own house. My mother was also separated, so I thought I would be reducing the burden on her shoulders if I went away,” recalls Muneera. But things did not go the way she hoped they would. “He did not take me to his home. He visited whenever he wanted to, and would come and go at his whim. I slowly started losing hope of ever having a normal family life. But my faith was shattered completely when I got pregnant with his child. When I told him over the phone, he asked me to abort the child. I did not want to and I told him just as much. That’s when he decided to separate from me. And he just said ‘talaq, talaq, talaq’ over the phone. I did not even know what it meant. I told my mother that may be he is just saying ‘phone rakraha hoon’.”
 
 WHAT HAPPENED TO AMEENA?
 Ameena, now in her 30s, lives a life in hiding. Once she returned to Hyderabad, she got married to an elderly man and hoped to live a normal life. but her torment wouldn’t stop. “Ameena lives a very low profile and quiet life, because people around her, her neighbours, still taunt her. So she keeps changing homes often too. But life isn’t easy for her. And, Ameena’s is not alone, all victims go through the same trauma. the people around are responsible for making these girls relive their torment over and over again. instead of embracing them and helping them move on and reclaim their lives, the society too continues to persecute them,” says Shaheda.
 
 
