Coimbatore: Five men, who had been out on bail, were arrested over the past two days for attempting to murder a 20-year-old youth over a previous enmity near Velan theatre at Ganapathy here on Tuesday night. Two of them reportedly jumped off the Rathinapuri flyover to evade arrest and fractured their legs. They were admitted to the   and Hospital. 

 The arrested were identified as R Surya, 19, B Hariharan, 20, Ananth, 22, Hariprasath, all hailing from Ganapathy. The police didn’t reveal the name of a 17-year-old arrested in connection with the case.
 
 In September 2016, a 12-member gang hacked one Hakkim to death at   over a gang rivalry. Following this, the Saravanampatti police arrested all the 12 and lodged them at the Coimbatore Central Prison. The police also slapped Goondas Act on six of them. Meanwhile, seven of them came out on bail two months ago.
 
 On Tuesday around 10pm, the seven made an attempt to murder J Karan, 20, of   at Ganapathy, who was a close friend of the late Hakkim, near the Velan theatre. However, he managed to escape and lodged a complaint with the Saravanampatti police on Wednesday.
 
 Inspector C Rajkumar registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (ii) (criminal Intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested the 17-year-old, Surya and B Hariharan on Wednesday evening. All of them were remanded in judicial custody.
 
 On Thursday, the police came to know the whereabouts of Ananth and Hariprasath and tried to arrest them. The duo, however, allegedly jumped off Rathinapuri flyover and fractured their legs. The duo was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.
 
 Two other accused, identified as Chinnadurai and Murugan of Ganapathy are still at large. The police have launched a manhunt to nab them.
 
 Youths from the   area and Kamarajapuram, the police said, often used to pick up fights in a show of their strength. The two groups often played cricket which often ended in physical assault. In one such incident, Hakkim was murdered in September last.
 
 
