What do you do when you are done using a coconut? You throw it away, right? But, artist  , sifts out used coconut shells and other remnants from mounds of   and moulds into a piece of art. This specialist in   has an impressive collection of art work, albeit made out of waste. “It all began when I was walking in a garden in my hometown Gulbarga, Karnataka. I found this coconut shell, which I felt looked like Lord Ganesha. That’s when I realized that I could convert it into a piece of art. I gradually began picking up waste strewn away by people and started giving them a new life. Be it parts of a coconut tree, fibre, dried leaves, used threads, m-seal, paper plates and containers, I can give it a makeover in minutes,” says the fine arts teacher at Sthaayi School of Theatre Arts.

 Vijaykumar shares that his work involves a lot of creativity. “It’s not easy to convert waste into a showpiece. I cannot make a waste product with a pre-conceived notion. But, when I get hold of an object, I immediately know what to make of it. One needs to be completely involved in the work.”
 
 So, where does he procure the materials for the art? “I pick up anything that I find interesting on the road. Nothing can match the beauty of nature. I try to retain the original colours. Once I make the art work, I coat them with varnish so that they last longer. I do not include many artificial products.”
 
 Some of his works speaks volumes about the hardships he faced in his life, be it a showpiece of labourer toiling with kids in tow or a woman working hard for her family. “I hail from a poor family and had to earn the bread and butter as the eldest among siblings, quite early in life. It was during the difficult times that some of my friends, who were working in Coimbatore, called me here. It’s been ten years I moved to the city. I have been teaching making art out of waste to students.” But, Vijay Kumar adds that his work is yet to get its due, despite the ten-year stint. “When people see my artwork, they appreciate it. But, they do not want to spend for a piece made out of waste. If the same product is exhibited at a shopping mall, they don’t mind paying a bomb for it. Lot of hard work goes into every showpiece and one cannot just relegate its importance, because of the products used in it. Some of the students who come to me appreciate the art, but, do not want to get their hands dirty. How is that possible when you are creating an art piece with waste? “
 
 Vijaykumar says that every discarded product at home can be put too good use. “For example, take your old shoes. All you have to do is clean the shoes, coat it with paint and use as a flower vase or pen stand. I have made pendants out of plywood and discarded nuts. It’s all about how you put your creativity to use and reduce waste,” says Vijay Kumar, who also specializes in  .
 
  
 
