SHIMLA: The   (BJP) leaders including SMC councillors in a meeting in Shimla on Friday stated that the Congress and the CPI(M) are afraid of losing the   especially after the Modi wave in Shimla post his visit to Shimla. The (BJP) alleges that postponing Shimla municipal corporation (SMC) elections is giving a tough time to Shimla residents for which both the Congress and CPI(M) should be held responsible.

 In April’s SMC monthly house meeting, CPI (M) leader and deputy mayor Tikender Singh Panwar had talked about three-month extension of SMC following the huge discrepancies in electoral rolls. The state   delayed the SMC elections which were to be conducted before June 5. The decision was welcomed by the Congress led state government and CPI(M) led civic body. .
 
 State BJP vice president   said Shimla is lurching for basic facilities including adequate and clean water supply and now both the Congress and Communist leaders have jointly deceived the city’s residents with the decision of delayed elections. “Creating emergency like situation in Shimla shows the dictatorial beliefs of both parties who have joined hands. The BJP will start a campaign in the city by going door-to-door to make people familiar with the true faces of the Congress and CPI(M). We will also launch rallies in every ward. After the campaign we will make sure that the BJP gets more than 30 seats out of all 34 in SMC elections and will not let the other parties secure any seat in SMC this time,” Dutt added.
 
 The BJP district president Sanjay Sood said BJP demands to conduct SMC elections immediately else the state government should resign and emergency should be declared in state. Benmore ward (BJP) councillor Anup Vaid said even after discrepancies, the SMC elections could have been organised by increasing the work force but the state government instead of trying that, happily accepted the delay. “The Election Commission in pressure from the state government delayed the elections. In any situation elections should have been conducted before June 5 for which the BJP is fully prepared,” he added.
 
 Shimla mayor   said, “We are not asking for unnecessary extensions as people themself will give us 5 more years to serve them by choosing us. We just want all residents to get their right to vote and the electoral rolls still need rectification and if that gets corrected we will welcome immediate elections,” he added.
 
