NAGPUR: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is known to be a disease of smokers. With increase in construction activities on the streets, burning of garbage and spraying of smoke in musical concerts, KRIMS hospital has pointed out rise in cases of the disease pertaining to these reasons. Taking cognizance of the problem, department of Pulmonology, KRIMS, in association with Vidarbha Chest association and Association of Physicians of India, on Sunday, has organized a conference on   at Hotel Radisson Blu.

 In the conference there will be talk on ‘Prevalence and risk-factors in COPD’ by Pune-based renowned pulmonologist Dr  , ‘Pathogenesis and diagnosis in COPD’ by pulmonologist Dr   from   (Mumbai) and ‘Asthma and COPD overlap’ by pulmonologist Dr Raja Dhar from Kolkata. 
 
 COPD is usually caused by continuous inhalation of artificial smoke. The main symptoms of COPD are continuous cough and breathlessness. That is the time when adequate oxygen doesn't reach the blood through lungs and more amount of carbon dioxide is retained in the body, causing difficulty in breathing. A chest x-ray and pulmonary function test can reveal the progression of the disease.
 
 Conference organizing chairman Dr Ashok Arbat said, “With continuous exposure to smoke there are people who get COPD within one year, while some don’t get it even after 10 years of smoking. It all depends on the resistant power.”
 
 He said, “At present, entire Nagpur is breathing in dust mainly due to the development works happening in every corner of the city. It’s affecting motorists, pedestrians and even hawkers, as these days we get lot of patients suffering with cough.”
 
 “If we observe in other countries, construction site is covered using big curtains and teens, so that no dust flies outside the site. Many times, citizens passing by don’t even get the idea of construction taking place. Such precautionary activities need to be incorporated here as well,” said Dr Arbat.
 
 He said, “Because of less awareness people tend to relate COPD with ‘cigarette smoking’. But the smoke developed in household kitchens with lack of ventilation is equally dangerous. Also at musical concerts and parties, smoke is being added in the ambience, such activities need to be banned. Even among cigarette smokers, there is a rising rate of girls who have started smoking at a very young age.”
 
 
