PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Driving on the wrong side of the road is rampant in Pimpri area, particularly along roads leading to the Indira Gandhi rail over bridge ( ). 

 The resultant   congestion has turned into an every day nuisance. Even so, usually, there are no traffic policemen to enforce rules in the afternoon and at night.
 
 The   was constructed near Pimpri railway station in the 1980s and has four approach roads from Babasaheb Ambedkar chowk, Ahilyabai Holkar chowk, Bhatnagar chowk and Shagun chowk. 
 
 Only the approach road from Bhatnagar chowk is a two-way route, while the rest have been turned into one-ways to reduce traffic   on the ROB.
 
 On Wednesday, immediately after the traffic police left the area around 1pm, two-wheeler riders and autorickshaws started driving on the wrong side to reach Babasaheb Ambedkar chowk. At Ahilyabai Holkar chowk on the highway, motorists took to wrong side driving between Chinchwad and Pimpri. 
 
 A traffic constable stationed at the junction said, “There is a petrol pump near Empire Estate flyover. Two-wheeler riders from Pimpri travel on the wrong side to access the pump because the U-turn is a kilometre away. We have been taking action against them.”
 
 Local trader Haresh Bodani said, “The traffic police does not implement one-ways strictly throughout the day so motorists drive on the wrong side before 10am, between 1pm and 4pm and after 9pm.” Another trader added that the congestion is worse over the weekend when a larger number of people travel towards Pimpri camp and the main bazaar.
 
 Mushtaq Sayyad, a local resident, said, “Many people avoid coming to Pimpri camp on holidays because of the traffic congestion and this has begun to affect business even though the shopkeepers won’t admit it.”
 
 Even as the ROB was being constructed, locals had suggested that it be widened to cater to the growing number of vehicles. “I had warned the civic officials and my fears have come true as the traffic police had to make three approach roads as one-way to reduce the congestion,” said Shivandas Pamnani, president of the  . 
 
 Assistant police inspector of the Pimpri traffic police BS Shinde told TOI, “Traffic policemen are deployed on the ROB from 9am until later in the night but to curb wrong side driving we will now start the shift from 8am itself. We regularly take action against motorists driving on the wrong side and flouting one-way rules on the ROB. We are short on manpower but if needed we will deploy more policemen on the ROB and surrounding chowks to reduce the nuisance.”
 
 (With inputs by Manish Umbrajkar)
 
