NEW DELHI: Vice President M   on Wednesday urged MPs to uphold the "spirit of democracy", which he stressed was the "lifeblood" of Parliament.

 He said "proper personal conduct" of parliamentarians would instill confidence among the people in "institutions of democracy".
 
 At a gathering for the 'Lokmat Parliamentary Awards 2017', organised by the media house from Maharashtra, Ansari asked MPs to prevent the "erosion of the vitality" of democracy, stressing that they had to first "believe" in democracy themselves.
 
 The Vice President felicitated BJP stalwart L K Advani and senior   (United) leader Sharad Yadav, members of   and Rajya Sabha respectively, with 'life time achievement awards'.
 
 CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was also felicitated during the event which was attended by political heavyweights cutting across party lines.
 
 "Our Constitution provides a framework for our democracy. A framework is one aspect; its spirit is another and more important aspect.
 
 "It is the duty of the elected representatives of the people of India to prevent erosion of the vitality and spirit of democracy that is the lifeblood of our Parliament." Ansari said.
 
 He also quoted former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, whom he described as one of the most charismatic parliamentarians in the history, to stress that House of Parliament is a place "where hopes, aspirations and frustrations of people of this country should be reflected and echoed".
 
 Describing parliamentarians as a "bridge" between overarching national interests and local dynamics and interests that affect the constituents who have elected him/her, Ansari said reconciling the two takes not only "political dexterity", but also a broader vision and foresight that should characterise his/her functioning.
 
 "The third quality that sets a good parliamentarian apart is the ability to communicate effectively with an economy of words," he said, and insisted MPs must strive to bring the highest possible level of clarity, erudition and civility to their public discourses.
 
 NDA's vice presidential poll candidate M Venkaiah Naidu, who also attended the event, stressed that parliamentarians should conduct themselves properly keeping in mind that Indian parliamentary system is "recognised, appreciated" worldwide.
 
 He also praised Advani in this context, saying the BJP veteran would always tell party MPs that "ideology alone would not suffice, but there is a need of proper conduct".
 
 Stating there is "no dearth of TV channels" these days, Naidu told the attendees, comprising parliamentarians in big number, to drive point that the public representatives should conduct themselves well as "people are watching".
 
 He also asked budding parliamentarians to read more to perform well inside the House.
 
 BJP's New Delhi MP Meenakshi, NK Premchandran of RSP and Congress' Kumari Sushmita Dev -- all from the Lok Sabha -- received the awards in the category of best debutant (woman) parliamentarian, best parliamentarian and best woman parliamentarian awards respectively.
 
 From Rajya Sabha, Congress' Rajani Patil, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and SP's   won the awards in best debutant (woman) parliamentarian, best parliamentarian and best woman parliamentarian awards respectively for the same year.
 
 Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, BJP veteran Murli Manohar Joshi, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, former Lok Sabha Shivraj Patil, National Conference's Farooq Abdullah, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari were among the key leaders present at the event. 
 
 
