NAGPUR: More than 10 morning walkers have been bitten by stray dogs on the premises of   (LIT) in the last 15 days. Surprisingly, instead of filing a complaint with the   (NMC) Dharampeth zone, the aggrieved citizens have started bringing sticks to protect themselves during their morning excursions. The fear among morning walkers has also resulted in killing of one dog too. 

 The dog bite victims include a businessman, a couple of women and LIT staffer. 
 
 On Sunday morning when TOI visited the campus, citizens claimed that the bitch was allegedly killed by construction workers as it attacked them too. They also claimed that a couple of stray dogs have become rabid.
 
 Animals activists have condemned the killing and use of sticks saying that the problem can be solved through vaccination and sterlisation. 
 
 NMC Veterinary officer Gajendra Mahalle said, “Citizens must report to the zonal office in such cases. In this case, they can inform the Dharampeth zone and preventive measures would be taken. So far, we didn’t receive any complaint.
 
 Activist Ankita Shah said, “An FIR should be filed against the NMC because it is their duty to ensure that stray population is under control. The Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme should be resumed. The operation not only helps in controlling the population but also aggression of dogs. Cruelty on animals too would stop. ”
 
 She added that if killing was a solution then culling would have clicked. “Many cities and countries tried culling strays but to no avail. If a dog dies, then another occupies that place,” she said. 
 
 People For Animals ( ) member Karishma Galani too reitireated that ABC programme should be carried out. “But, people can also handle the situation with care. We are humans and should show compassion for the mute animal. Hardly one out of 100 dogs is aggressive which can be normalized through love and trust. If people carry sticks, more dogs would get aggressive,” she said.
 
 Shah added, “The Supreme Court too has said that not every dog is a menace. Carrying sticks would worsen the situation.”
 
 They also claim that an animal lover has been feeding them due to which the stray population has increased on the premises.
 
 Businessman   (53) said, “I was walking when suddenly the bitch approached me and bit me on the legs on March 1. She was killed by the people on the campus.” 
 
 Senior citizen SB Dharaskar said, “A friend got stitches too. One of the dogs died after biting someone. We have no other place to walk so we are forced to come here. Look at  , how well they have maintained the premises. Same security must be deployed here.”
 
 Former Nagpur University official Ramesh Bhalave, who informed TOI about the issue, claimed, “There are about 50 dogs on the premises moving in different packs. In the last 15 days, dog bites have increased.”
 
 
