Gurgaon: The closure of Epicentre, at least for the near future, has left culture in the city orphaned. But a few are willing to play custodian, to help keep the flame burning.

  is one such. After bringing the   of the   to Gurgaon last year — and doing so with rhapsodic success — he is keen on enhancing that experience, by creating a festival of   that people of Gurgaon can proudly call their own.
 
 Mathur has tied up with resident welfare associations of two condominium complexes in Gurgaon (with four more in the pipeline) to host an evening of qawwalis at each, spread across the months of February and March. This series will culminate in a two-day fest at the Aravali Biodiversity Park, in March. And springtime, fleeting but glorious in these parts, is as good a time as any to become immersed in songs of faith.
 
 Rumi’s Kitchen and Dargah Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliyah will be presenting the Khanqali qawwali, the classical style that owes its lyrical provenance to the shrines of the Sufis. Thus far, dates have been confirmed for Garden Estate (February 11) and Heritage City (March 5).
 
 Featuring at each of the venues will be the brothers Sultan and Usman Niyazi, who come with plenty of pedigree. Their father, the late (and legendary) Ghulam Husain Niyazi, was one of the greatest qawwals ever, according to Mathur, he of city caterers (and food truck) Rumi’s Kitchen. “There is so much talent in the Dargah,” he says.
 
 Sultan and Usman received training in classical Hindustani from the Hapur gharana, and have performed far and wide, across India. “Although young, their rigorous training, education and exposure from childhood is evident when they carry their audiences into what can only be called an experience,” informs Mathur.
 
 “The qawwals shall be rendering the kalams of Hazrat Amir Khusro in praise of his ‘peer’, Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, and celebrating love in its purest form.”
 
 But ‘The Sufis of Nizamuddin’ is far from being just another programme of qawwalis. It’s a soul-filled encounter with the mystic that is many centuries old. Not surprisingly, then, the RWAs are more than happy to host the qawwals. “Out of around 2,000 people who live here, about 50 percent are senior citizens. They’re very fond of qawwalis, and even among the youngsters there is a craze,” Ashok Srivastava, president of the Heritage City RWA, told TOI.
 
 
