KOLKATA:   centenary in 2019 would be a "good time" for the British to apologize to Indians for unleashing unparalleled brutality on a peaceful crowd gathered for   at Jallianwala Bagh, claimed writer and   MP Shashi Tharoor, in the city for the inaugural session of   on Sunday. 

 "Ideally, the British PM or someone from the royal family should visit Jallianwala Bagh to simply say: we are sorry, a simple apology for atrocity and brutality and all the wrongs done in the name of the crown. But they might not do so. Then they have to carry out similar exercises in all the colonies," said Tharoor, 
 
 who was in discussion with Michael Dwyer, publisher of Hurst, which has published his latest book An Era of Darkness, British Empire in India. He looked to demystify the British legacy and idealization. "We had three industries superior to that of the British: shipbuilding, steel and textile. All those were destroyed by the British. Their counter argument is modern technology would have overtaken... I said, we would have found ways to cope if we were free. You were the ones making the rules, you made it impossible to ship Indian textiles by imposing punitive tariffs and made it easy to ship English goods to India by practically having no tariffs at all" he said. 
 
 Was British colonialism necessary for Indians? Tharoor told TOI: "A country doesn't have to be colonised to build a factory or rail. Why wouldn't an Indian, who made money through weaving, invest in new technology he sees coming up in Europe? Also, our ships could last 20-24 years, while British and European ships had an average lifespan of seven years. They were delighted to use Indian ships. The British dismantled the shipbuilding and passed laws to make it difficult for India-built ships to ply profitable routes to London and China. " 
 
 He called the replacing of Gandhi's photo with that of Modi on the Khadi calendar "a ploy to enhance the PM's image. "But it is too petty a ploy. Mr Modi might be a spin doctor, but it is next to impossible to erase Gandhiji," Tharoor said on the sideline of the inaugural session. 
 
 
