JAISALMER: There is disappointment among tourists and tour operators here over not starting the air service, which still is in limbo. The civil airport here, for the last four years, has been lying deserted, and for the last six months many dates to start the services were announced, but nothing concrete took place.   were also stopped after four days.

 The   has been ready for the last four years. The air service did not start – sometimes for want of security personnel, at other times due to non-availability of planes, or for not getting clearance from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Now, those involved in tourism have lost all hopes of ever seeing a plane fly or land at the airport here. Union minister of state for civil aviation in February 2016 had come to Jaisalmer and assured everyone that air service would start by June- July. Since then many efforts were made and finally in November last year, chief secretary O P Meena called a meeting of civil aviation officers (Jaisalmer and Bikaner) and directed them to start air service within 15 days. Meena even asked the state police to deploy police personnel for security, but even after two months, nothing happened.
 
  had made all preparations to start air service between Jaisalmer and Jaipur from November 1 last year, but due to non-availability of staff for security arrangements, air service could not start till date. The border intelligence police had written to airport authorities that they do not have staff therefore they are unable to provide staff to the airport.
 
 Now the latest problem is that Supreme Airlines does not have an aircraft to start air service to Jaisalmer and no other airline is ready to start the service. Confirming this,   - Jodhpur director SK Singh said the problem of security arrangement has been solved, but now Supreme Airlines does not have an aircraft to start the service. The company says it will get a new aircraft in a few days and will begin services. However, Singh said that the chances are quite bleak because he has not got permission from DGCA.
 
