On weekends, city’s culture connoisseurs often struggle to find something new in the entertainment scenario of Nagpur that mostly has the mundane song and dance performances in store for people. To break the monotony, some of the young poetry enthusiasts have organised an   today with a focus on legendary poet and lyricist —  . We give you the lowdown on this lyrical endeavour...

 
 
 One of the volunteers of the open mic,  , reveals the reason to focus on Sahir Ludhianvi. “Since this is our first open mic on poetry, we wanted to give this event a befitting start and who can be better than Sahir sahib. His collection of poetry is revolutionary. Instead of writing only about love, relationships and God, he has also written of bitter realities of life, layering them with a lot of sensitivity. His poems were not submissive; they questioned life, politics and society’s mindset. And through this platform, we want to highlight all these aspects to make our generation aware of his unmatchable legacy. We will start the event by dwelling on Sahir sahib’s journey as a poet and also how his lyrics impacted the Hindi film industry. Since it is an open mic, anyone can take the stage and pay his/her tribute to the legend,” she says.
 
 
 
 A lot of youngsters are coming together to enjoy this poetic event. One of them,  , says, “Open mic is a great platform for anyone who wants to express 
 himself creatively, and it has been heartening to see such a response for a poet from the youngsters who don’t want to give this event a miss. Some of them have composed their own poetry and others will talk about topics that are close to their hearts at the event. The best part is that we don’t have any censorship or language 
 preference, hence the stage is open for anyone with a thought to share.”
 
 
 
 For the amateurs, who love poetry or write it, this event will serve as an ideal platform. A literature enthusiast   who has just started dabbling in poetry says, “Nagpur’s cultural calendar doesn’t include events that provide writers, artists and poets a stage to express themselves freely. Since this open mic is being organised by the youngsters, I will shed all my inhibitions and recite self-composed poems at the stage. My poems explore some dark realities including depression, angst and failures. I can’t wait to have people’s feedback.” 
 
