Chennai: Looking to buy a group health insurance? Don’t be surprised if you are asked to shell out more towards the premium. This category of mediclaim is set to become expensive, as insurers gear up to increase premium rates by 15-20% this April. Most large corporates sign up for group health policies for their employees around the close of the financial year.  For most insurers, group health is at times a loss making proposition. “This is not just because these policies are competitively priced lower (large volumes expected to compensate lower pricing), but also because of higher than expected healthcare inflation,” said Sanjay Datta, chief - underwriting and claims, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company. The pricing war in group health has severely impacted underwriting profits at insurance companies, including public-sector giants who have seen losses between Rs 900-Rs 1,800 crore just for the half-year of 2016-17. But as health continues to be a leading driver of growth (21.3% growth to Rs 27,457 crore in 2015-16), insurers can’t afford not to be in the business. So their rethink of pricing strategy to cut underwriting losses, might result in highers costs for corporate employers and employees (in co-payee policies). United India Insurance CMD A V Girijakumar said, with loss ratios upwards of 110% it would no longer be viable to continue doing business at the same rates. “There will be price revisions in group health. Now, this might lead to a loss of business and clients might seek out a cheaper insurer. But we are willing to take the risk. We are serious about cutting our underwriting losses and we are okay with doing less business; and exercising more prudence," said the United India CMD.  “We are paying more than what we collect. We are paying close to Rs 4,620 in claims after collecting about Rs 4,200 in gross premium,” said an executive. Overall, group health covers 16% (5.7 crore) of total lives insured in India — with government schemes forming the majority at 76% (27.33) and individual retail health at 8% (2.87 crore). But in terms of premium collected, group health has a larger share. The industry sees 48% of revenue (Rs 11,621 crore) from group health, 42% from individual retail and 10% from government-schemes. Group health while being high on revenues is also high on claims. While individual business has a healthy claims ratio of 77%, and government-schemes have a slight worrisome 109%, losses from group health are at 120%; which would mean for every Rs 100 the insurer writes as premium, it is paying out Rs 120 in claims). Private insurers like Bajaj Allianz and ICICI Lombard have also adopted a similar model, where they are willing do less business, but at better rates. “We have a limited set of clients in the group space. But they are repeat customers as they know we honour all our claims. Our pricing is more expensive than the market, but it is realistic as it has proved sustainable,” said Abhijeet Ghosh, head, health insurance, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. Insurers say that they have had to increase premium costs, as hospitals are unregulated. “There is no curb on what hospitals can charge. So for some corporate policies, where there are sub-limits or co-payer option the premium hike would be 2-8%. The sub-limits could be a cap on room rent, surgeon’s fees, etc. But for corporate policies without sub-limits, the inflation will be higher at 8-15%,” he added.