We were a group of 4 in college. Without giving out their real names, I will call them Jaya, Meeya, Sana and yours truly. We were a thick bunch of friends and used to often hang out together.
 
  One of the most popular boys of our class was a very good dancer (Arjun) and so was Jaya. During our annual event practice, I saw them both playing to their strengths- Jaya was into classical dance and Arjun was into western dance. They planned a fusion dance performance and started spending hours together at length choreographing the act. It wasn’t long before I actually sensed that they both were nursing romantic feelings for each other. I started teasing them and by the time the annual event happened, they were a couple. Everyone in the college knew that they both were dating. Jaya was the coy one and Arjun being the popular one, enjoyed a great deal of popularity in college, with lots of women drooling over him. However, it never made Jaya jealous.
  
  One day Sana told me that she suspects Meeya has a thing for Arjun. I shut her up saying that it can’t be. After all Meeya knew that Arjun was romantically involved with our   Jaya. After the annual event, Jaya started leaving college early because of her father’s ill health and most days Meeya and Arjun left together on his bike. I barely saw them interact in front of Jaya and I was surprised to see the turn of events. I never even confronted Meeya, trusting her to not breach on Jaya’s trust. I just assumed that possibly they live nearby and so this setting suits her.
  
  A month later, a college trip was planned. We all were very excited and boarded the bus. Arjun sat away with his friends, while Jaya sat with us. We reached the hotel after a long journey and checked into the hotel. Suddenly we realized that Meeya was nowhere to be seen. We tried her mobile number and it was switched off. Jaya got restless and suggested that we should talk to the teacher. Sana came back rushing to the room and asked me to come out with her. I asked her what’s the matter and I was told that Meeya was with Arjun in his hotel room. I was shocked. I didn’t know how to react. Just as we were talking, Jaya came out of the room and insisted we check around the rooms for Meeya. We tried to dissuade her but she didn’t budge. It felt like she knew something was going on. I took the elevator and reached Arjun’s room ahead of Sana and Jaya to warn him that Jaya was on her way. Meeya ran out of the room without looking at me in the eyes. Jaya witnessed the entire happening from one end of the alley. After that moment, the college trip turned into a nightmare for us. Jaya got her room changed and it was only Sana, Meeya and me in the room. She didn’t speak to us during the trip and I didn’t talk to Meeya. The bus ride was the last moments we four enjoyed together. After that, I tried talking to Jaya to present my side of the story but she made new friends and distanced herself from all of us. It pained but there was nothing I could do.
  
  Today Meeya and Arjun are happily married and I don’t even know where Jaya is. Even now when the topic ever comes up casually, I am told that I was the one who tried to string them together. Well, maybe, maybe not.
  
  I want to use this platform to tell Jaya that I miss her. And I want to tell her that I would have guarded her to the best of my ability, only if it was in my hands. I still feel the pain why I was at the receiving end. I just convince myself with the belief that just like first love, one never forgets the first heart break.
  
  (By Anonymous) 
