Dharamshala: Even as the Congress leadership is trying to maintain a balance at a time when chief minister Virbhadra Singh is facing serious charges, factionalism came to the fore on Wednesday when Virbhadra skipped the rally organised by his senior cabinet colleague G S Bali at Nagrota Bagwan of Kangra district.

 In Virbhadra’s absence, the much hyped unemployment allowance scheme of the Congress government was formally launched by party president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, who gave its credit to Bali. This was the first rally after cabinet approval came for the scheme. It was ‘Youth Samman Dhanyawad Rally’ to thank Virbhadra for unemployment allowance, but the latter and his close aides did not participate in it.
 
 Sukhu while addressing the rally credited Bali for benefiting the unemployed youths. “It was Bali who had brought this into the party’s manifesto during the last assembly elections. He fought for youths and finally the government approved it. I would request people of Nagrota to be with your leader as he was going to play an important role in state politics in future,” he said to the gathering.
 
 Former union minister Chandresh Kumari, who has been staying away from active politics after she lost the last Lok Sabha elections from Jodhpur in Rajasthan, was a surprise at the rally. “I just want to thank Bali that he had invited me. Otherwise, some people have even forgotten me that I am also a Congress leader” said Kumari, former MLA, while taking a dig at other party leaders.
 
 In his address, Bali reacted to Virbhadra’s statement issued in Shimla that the scheme was not the result of efforts of only one minister. “I read the newspapers. I don’t want to take the credit and unemployed youths are not a political issue for me,” he said while thanking Virbhadra. Bali said that he would further fight for marticulate youths, who were left out of scheme. “My fight is also for outsourced and contractual employees” he said while giving a slogan ‘Aao badhein agay, chalo milkar ek sunder Himachal banayien’.
 
 Other Congress leaders present in the rally were chief parliamentary secretaries Sohan Lal and Rajesh Dharmani, former minister Shiv Kumar Sharma, former MLAs Nikhil Rajaur and Surinder Kakku, Premila Devi (candidate of congress in Bhoranj by-elections) and Raghubir Singh Bali, HPCC secretary and son of Bali. 
 
 
