ALWAR: Days after dairy owner  , a Meo, was killed by self-styled cow vigilantes on suspicion of cow slaughtering, the Meo community has threatened to surrender its cows to the district collector here.

 On Thursday, the Sadar (head) of   would give away his two cows to the district collector; an act, which is likely to be followed at the Tehsil and the block level. The community has threat ened that unless the government guarantees safety and security to farmers and bovine owners, more than nine lakh Meos in Alwar district will surrender their cows to the district administration.
 
 “For generations, almost every Meo family has a cow at home. It is only now that if a Muslim keeps a cow it is assumed that the animal has been kept for slaughtering.We have started feeling insecure in this atmosphere and have decided to surrender our cows to the district collector,“ said Sher Mohammad, Sadar (head) of Meo Panchayat.
 
 “As a symbolic protest, I am going to surrender my cows on Thursday. If the collector and the administration fail to assure us our safety, we will start surrendering cows at the Tehsil and the Block level in the Alwar district,“ Mohammad said. “It will be a peaceful protest, Sher Mohammad, Sadar (head) of Meo Panchayat said. Apart from Alwar, there is huge population of Meos in Bharatpur and parts of Haryana, known as the Mewat region.
 
 The community is also protesting the handing over of investigation in the Pehlu Khan murder case to deputy superintendent of police  . “Without any proof, the DSP has given a statement saying Pehlu Khan had cases of cow smuggling registered against him. Such an officer can't do justice to the case,“ he Mohammad said.
 
 The community is also annoyed with the BJP MLA   who termed them as criminals a few days ago. “For generations, almost every Meo family has a cow at home. It is only now that if a Muslim keeps a cow it is assumed that the animal has been kept for slaughtering. We have started feeling insecure in this atmosphere and have decided to surrender our cows to the district collector,“ said Mohammad.
 
 
 
 
 The lynching of Pehlu Khan, a cattle trader, and the government's muted response to the outrage have taken cow vigilantism to a new low in the state. The Meo community, who are traditionally agriculturists, cattle breeders and inhabitants of the Mewat region, which includes Alwar district, has raised legitimate fears about threats to their life and property following the gruesome incident.
 
 Responsible leaders of the ruling front have made matters worse by claiming that the community is into crime. The government has to address the issue of security raised by the community, who number over 10 lakh in Alwar alone, and quell the fears of citizenry as a whole by acting decisively against self-styled 'gau rakshaks'. The rule of law should be applicable to all.
 
