Mumbai:  , usually considered a recession-proof sector, is facing stiff headwinds. Companies including  ,  ,   and   are expected to report overall weak results for the first quarter ended June 2017 in the wake of a nearly 10% decline in domestic businesses impacted by the   implementation, coupled with a reduction in US sales. Analysts expect the sector to report muted growth of 1-2% in revenue, with a decline of around 23% in   ( ) year-on-year. 

 The sector had also witnessed one of the worst quarters in the three-month period ended March 31, posting flat sales year-on-year and one of the lowest in 20 quarters, bogged down by price erosion in US businesses. 
 
 As a result of GST, inventory de-stocking at the pharmacy and stockists’ levels impacted sales during the quarter, while impact on earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) and PAT would be higher as India is one of the most profitable businesses, an analyst from   says. The India business for most companies was growing at a healthy rate till now. Further, increased competition and pricing pressure would impact growth in certain US-focused companies. 
 
 A note by HDFC Securities says, “The drop in profitability is likely to be influenced by both lower sales of exclusive products (  - Sun Pharma,   - Lupin, and   - Torrent Pharma), and compensation for lost tax credits offered to dealers in the face of GST implementation. However, we believe that the operating performance is likely to have bottomed out in Q4FY17 and companies like Lupin,  ,   and   are now receiving a higher number of product approvals, leading to stronger base businesses in the US.” 
 
 Sun Pharma will report a revenue decline on a high base of Q1FY17, which included generic Gleevec sales, and margins are also likely to shrink year-on-year. “However, we expect sequential improvement in ebitda margins owing to the absence of the one-off costs of Q4FY17,” it added. 
 
 The domestic pharma market witnessed moderate growth, impacted by de-stocking before the implementation of GST in July, at 7.8% in value terms during the quarter, according to  . Secondary sales were adversely affected and indicate the value decline of 24% and 4.6% year-on-year in the fixed dose combination (FDC) and National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM) portfolios due to FDC ban and price revision, respectively.
 
 Key factors that will have a bearing on the financials this year are GST impact on domestic business and its normalisation, update on USFDA issues plaguing several companies, continued pricing erosion in US business with consolidation of buyers, and increased competition and growth in emerging markets after stabilisation of currencies.
 
 
