NEW DELHI: Notwithstanding Pakistan’s challenge to Jammu and Kashmir’s 330 mw Kishanganga hydro-electric project, the Prime Minister’s Office ( ) has directed the   and the J&K government to expedite work on the two major Kishanganga transmission lines that are to be commissioned along with the first unit of the crucial project.
 
  Two transmission lines — the Kishanganga-Amargarh and the Amargarh-Wagoora lines — are to be commissioned by the power ministry. The Prime Minister’s Office has asked the   government to expeditiously acquire and hand over the land required for the first line this month itself, and has set June as the deadline for the second line. The first line is now targeted for commissioning in November this year, and the second one next March, senior government officials have told ET.
  
  Pakistan has been consistently objecting to the Kishanganga hydro-electric project which is to be completed by India in three units of 110MW each, the first of which is set to be commissioned in the coming months. Last month, India had put on hold a World Bank-facilitated initiative for water secretary-level talks with Pakistan in Washington, owing to differences of opinion on technical issues on the Indus river hydro-projects like Kishanganga.
  
  In January, Pakistan had reportedly asked India to suspend the ongoing construction of the   and asked the World Bank to set up a court of arbitration to mediate the dispute over the Indus Waters Treaty between India and Pakistan.
  
  
 
  
  The priority 220 KV Kishanganga-Amargarh transmission line is aimed to match the start of the first unit of the main hydro project. The cooperation of the J&K government has been sought in this regard by the PMO to tide over thorny issues such as ‘Right of Way’ and payment of compensation to land owners.
  
  The PMO has asked the power ministry and the J&K government to work in close coordination as the physical progress of the Line 1 is only to the tune of 35% at present.
  
  The two lines to be built at a cost of 269 crore are meant to implement transmission evacuation system associated with J&K’s Kishanganga Hydro Electric Project. Both lines were approved in January 2015 with the scheduled commissioning of Line 1 being July 2017, and Line 2 being March next year.
  
  But the projects have faced obstacles in land acquisition — they need land at nearly 398 locations in Jammu and Kashmir. Forest clearance was given to both the projects this March and all packages under the transmission system were awarded by the power ministry. 
