When Royal Challengers Bangalore marched into the final of the   in 2016, Indian opener   was the toast of the side. The team's fortunes nose-dived this season and the 25-year-old, whose shoulder was immobilized following surgery, watched haplessly.

 The elegant bat, who went under the knife for an injury sustained during the Australian series early this year, will miss next month's  .
 
 Carefully delineating his comeback, having started his rehabilitation at the   in Bengaluru, the youngster is not losing sleep over missed chances in his still blossoming career. Instead, he is working towards becoming fitter and stronger.
 
 Rahul had a memorable 2016-17 season, when he became the youngest and quickest batsman to score an international century in all three forms of the game. But there were injuries, such as the latest one, which pegged him back.
 
 In an interview with TOI, the heavily-tattooed star spoke of the season gone by, his drive and focus, lessons learnt and the new attitude of the Indian cricketer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It all started with the move from Hyderabad to RCB. I felt more comfortable here because this is where it all started for me. I played for RCB first. I learnt so many things from the coaching staff and players and went back to playing the Ranji Trophy a better player. I learnt a lot about batting, discipline and fitness. I gained in confidence, the following year I got 1000 runs (2013-14 Ranji season). A lot of credit goes to the   and their coaching staff as well. The good run I've had here is because of the work they put in with me when I was there.
  
 
 
 
 IPL helps you grow faster. You get to interact with so many legends and people who are successful. You get to see what they do, what they are thinking and how they've changed their cricket. Those are things I would've otherwise learnt in maybe three-four years, but two months in an IPL dressing room speeds it all up.
  
 
 
 
 More often than not, you succeed. There are times you fail and you tell yourself it is important to fail. I have made peace with failing. It doesn't bog me down, I don't go back to the dressing room and question my ability and skill. If I've failed while wanting to do well, if my hunger, focus and desire to win games for the team is there I can live with myself. I've become more mature, calmer. I can give myself straight answers, without getting emotional. I sit by myself and look into the mirror and the person giving me the answers isn't anyone else. Instead, it is what is best for me.
  
 
 
 
 I'm not my strongest critic, I'm just very straight. If I haven't done well or gone in with the right intent, thinking: What if he gets me out? What if I get out, I may not play the next game? I've got a couple of fifties, I can relax. If I've gone in with that mindset, then I will be hard on myself. If I've in gone with the right attitude, I'm happy. I don't know how you get there. I've always been someone who has loved responsibility. I'm not somebody who has said I'm young, I can do whatever and be wild and free. I've always known where my boundaries are, what is good for me and what are the things I shouldn't be doing. Maybe it is the people you are with, the company I keep. I've been lucky in that I've made great friends, in the dressing room and away. My family is straight, simple and humble, so I've never pushed myself too hard or been too greedy for success. I'm content with anything. I'm always on the middle ground. It is a mix of all of these factors, talking to people and being part of great dressing rooms that has perhaps help me get here.
  
 
 
 
 I learnt I was stronger mentally than I gave myself credit for. I went into this series with people saying, 'he's very inconsistent, gets a hundred and the next three-four games doesn't even get into double-figures'. It's a true and right statement. It doesn't help me or the team. I'm the opening batsman and I've already played 12-odd games. I can't get out and say, 'oh I'm still new, I got a good ball.' Earlier I used to say, 'it's a good ball, what can I do?' But in international cricket, you are going to get more good balls, you have to find a way, the intent has to be there. Maybe I didn't have the same intent in the two or three innings after I got a hundred. To remain in the mindset where you want to keep doing well consistently, is something I had to figure out for myself. This Australian series taught me that. I felt a sense of responsibility after the Pune Test match. Even if I'm soft, not hard on myself, I will still say that I was one of the biggest reasons for stuffing up the Pune Test match. We were sailing along easily and it was just that one moment of I don't know what I was trying to do. I have become a player who wants to attack spinners and who wants to dominate but that was the wrong time and it cost us the Test match. That hits you very badly. Obviously losses hurt. But losing a Test match for the side hurts in a different way. It pricks you in places where it is not very comfortable. Maybe once I come back into Test matches, I will have a better mindset. Now I know how to be consistent. I have to build from here and get stronger.
  
 
 
 
 I still feel that I played international cricket a couple of years later than I would've wanted to. There's no one to blame for that but me. I wasn't disciplined enough; I was always hard-working, but I didn't work smartly to perform at Ranji Trophy or the IPL opportunities that I got. I feel like I should have done it a lot earlier because I had the self-confidence and I have been blessed with a lot of natural talent. I'm a little disappointed on that count, but it is always good for a youngster to know that he has a record that nobody else has done before. It gives me a lot of confidence. But you do question yourself, can you become the No. 1 batsman in Test cricket? You look at the top five or six batsmen and I'm in awe of them -  , Joe Root,  , Williamson,  , AB de Villiers. All of these are guys, I love to sit and watch. They are playing a different level than the rest of us. You do ask yourself, if you can you beat all of them, be better than them, be No. 1. That's what maybe pushes you to work harder.
  
 
 
 
 I realised last year that it's very hard to come back from injury and to get going straightaway. Even in the England series (last year), I felt I was ready but once I went in the middle (having got a 100 in the Ranji Trophy with ease), I realised but playing international cricket is completely different. The pressure is different. As an opening batsman in Test matches, you forget. I was a little hesitant about where my off-stump was for the first couple of games. It took 2-3 Test matches and then I did well in Chennai (against Australia). I don't want that to keep happening because it won't help the team or myself.
  
 
 
 
 I love the chatter, I love it when people say I can't do something or have a go at me. It only makes me focus more, makes me want to get more runs and stay in the middle. Just to be there and keep smiling when I get a 150. I'm still there and they are quiet, that's the biggest satisfaction for anybody. At the end of the day, you smile at them. I'm not somebody who shies away. I don't talk when I'm batting, I try to stay quiet and stay in my little bubble, in my zone and focus on batting. But I'm never shy of looking at them and listening to what they have to say. Most of the times, they say the right things. Some people say you are weak outside the off-stump, a bouncer is going to get you and you are like, the bouncer might get me soon, so focus, maybe leave the ball outside off. That's good banter. I always remember what they have said and I make sure they get it twice as good when they come out to bat.
  
 
 
 
 Apart from cricket, we as a country have become very confident. We are not shy of who we are. We are not insecure of what we are or how we look or how we talk. Earlier we used to worry about people laughing when we say something. Now at least, in this dressing room, none of us are scared. We are the people to say something to them even before they say anything to us. When they say, we don't shy away, we make sure to give it back. Be it teams or people who are critical about us. We have just become honest. At least me. I've never felt I need to do something to please anybody. There has been this whole stereotypical cricketer attitude that the country and people watching you want to have. (That is) not say anything, set great examples for the kids... We are trying to be that kind of influence for the youngsters. But if somebody is giving it to you, give it back to them. There is nothing wrong. It doesn't mean you are arrogant, it raises your confidence. That is the attitude all of us have now, that is how young India thinks.
 
