

 CHENNAI: Around 18 years ago, in the industrial town of Rajgangpur in Odisha, 36-year-old Geetanjali Tripathy decided to use her skills in stitching and embroideryto make a life for not just herself and her family, but to teach others to do the same. She began providing vocational training for a few women who travelled over 10km just to acquire this skill set. When she saw what she had started, she decided to start a self-help group called Swastik. 
 
 “We don’t depend on our husbands for our income. We are independent. We can now use the money we make towards our children’s education,” said Geetanjali. “These women are talented but they lack confidence and business skills, they need to be forced out of their shells, which is a task,” said her son J D Tripathy, a 25-year-old software engineer with Hewlett Packard.
 
 Now, Geetanjali, along with 54 women who started self-help groups in their towns in Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and   are in Chennai to participate in a four-day exhibition-cum-sale organised by   India in association with   in in Egmore. 
 
 “I run a self-help group called Sanjeevani in Kancheepuram and have 28 women working with me,” said 42-year-old Sathya, adding, “Exhibitions like these allow us to grow and helps us understand the world of business better.”
 
 “We focus on entrepreneurship for women empowerment because charity can only help them for a day. We need them to have a sustainable lifestyle,” said N Jeyaselan, group chief executive officer of Hand in Hand India. 
 
 “We intend to lobby with the government in association with NABARD, to aid us in setting up a permanent location for these self-help groups market their products,” he added.
 
 “We learnt a lot about accounts, ethics of business, management of profits, marketing techniques and the internet, and that changed my life and motivated me to establish a shop with self confidence I gained from the exposure,” said Jesintha, founder of Jayampurachi Malar self-help group. 
 
  The women are mentored and trained to understand the nuances of business and marketing. IIT-Madras professors Thillai Rajan and Arun Kumar created a module, and a session based on it was organised for over 60 women in Kancheepuram district in January 2016 on profit management and business planning. The session helped them acquire bank loans to grow their business. 
 
 The exhibition is being held till May 24 at Guild of Service Central, Egmore from 10.30am to 8.30pm.
 
