BENGALURU: When the Surya Kirans took wing after a six-year break, expectations were high. However, fewer jets and the absence of the team’s trademark tricolour smoke disappointed many fans. But there is good news. The aerobatic team is expected to return to its original glory before Air Force Day on October 8.

 The aero show witnessed only six aircraft instead of nine, which is the standard formation. Why didn’t the aviation extravaganza see the nine-member team perform in its signature style? Sources said complications in the integration of the   was to blame. On acquiring the new Hawk aircraft, the team approached   ( ) to get the smoke system integrated to the payload pods. When it got no response, it approached  , which manufactured the Hawks.
 
 The manufacturer’s proposal was time-consuming so the air force got back to HAL once again, after procuring the smoke system. To its relief, the integration is underway at present.
 
 While the machines are being prepped, the men are being trained. In order to raise a team of nine new members, three former team members were called back. Three pilots, who helmed the Hawks, were also called back to groom the five new entrants.
 
 The team has also brought new go-pro cameras, which are being used to record the training process. Footage from these cameras is being used for debriefing.
 
 The present team comprises pilots from various backgrounds, including fighters like Su 30, Mig 29, Mig 21, Mig 27 and Mirage. When asked about the shift to a trainer aircraft after flying IAF’s frontline fighter planes, Wing Commander Ajit Kulkarni, team leader, said for a fighter pilot being part of an aerobatic team is second only to a fighting a war. “The same precision and skill is required for both aerobatics and flying a combat sortie,” he said. For a younger pilot like Sqn Ldr Praveen, the experience is worthwhile because it allows him to concentrate only on flying.
 
 The single aircraft corkscrew, which debuted at  , was one of the latest experiments of the team. There are more to come, the members say.
 
