HYDERABAD: Tollywood's 'Mass Maharaja'  , the biggest star from the Telugu film industry to find himself on the hot seat of the ongoing Tollywood-drugs nexus probe by excise officials, on Friday told his interrogators in an over nine-hour grilling session that he had never abused drugs, be it in India or abroad, and flatly refused to give his nail, blood and hair samples.

 As expected, Ravi Teja took the same line as others from his fraternity that were questioned before him by the special investigation team (SIT) of the enforcement wing of the prohibition and excise department - he denied ever knowing or seeing the already arrested drug peddlers and also denied having any knowledge about anyone else in Tollwood abusing drugs. He also refused to answer some of the questions posed by the interrogators 
 
 The popular actor was primarily questioned about his foreign jaunts to   and   and whether he attended rave parties. He was also questioned about his friends circle and party life.
 
 He was also questioned about his brothers, which includes Bharath, who died recently in a road accident, as two of his brothers were arrested in an alleged drugs case by the Hyderabad police a few years ago.
 
 However, Ravi Teja, whose actual name is Ravi Shankar Raju Bhupathi Raju, denied ever abusing drugs, either in India or when abroad.
 
 When he was questioned by SIT sleuths about his visits to Belgium to attend the Tomorrowland festival, Teja admitted that he went there but only to listen to music. "Ravi Teja accepted he went to Tomorrowland and Thailand. But he said it was only to listen to music and completely denied ever attending a rave party in those foreign destinations," a source in the prohibition and excise department told TOI.
 
 Ravi Teja, who is one of the 12 Tollywood personalities to be summoned for their alleged links with drug peddlers based on the confession given by the peddlers, claimed in his statement before the officials that he is completely against drug abuse.
 
 He told the investigators that calling him for questioning had dented his image and that of his family members and caused them all considerable anguish.
 
 When asked to give his blood, nail and hair samples, Ravi Teja refused to give the samples and the same will be recorded in the case diary by the investigators.
 
 Ravi Teja, who reached the SIT office at Nampally at 10am, disembarked from his car amid full media glare and walked briskly towards the stairs. He was taken in a lift to the fifth floor where the SIT office is located. He was questioned till 7.30pm after which he was allowed to leave.
 
 Apart from Ravi, two other persons -- Syed Younis and   -- were also questioned by the officials in the drugs case on Friday. On Saturday, Srinivas Rao, the actor's driver, has been summoned by the SIT officials as part of the probe.
 
