NEW DELHI: In his first public speech as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister,   said on Saturday that his government will work for the 
  and there will be no discrimination on the grounds of religion, caste or gender in the state.

 "We will follow "sabka saath, sabka vikas" mantra of PM Modi," Yogi Adityanath said, adding that there will be 
  of the population. 
 
 "We will show UP how a government should be run. How it should treat a common man," the UP CM said while addressing a huge gathering at Gorakhpur's  .
 
 Yogi Adityanath is on his maiden two-day tour to Gorakhpur after becoming the chief minister.
 
 He also claimed that the newly formed BJP government will fulfill all promises made in the election manifesto.
 
 "Uttar Pradesh has been deprived till now, but it won't be neglected now," Yogi said.
 
 He also spoke about 
  adding that they will not harass couples sitting together but will target those who harass women in public places, schools and colleges.
 
 He added that UP would become a developed state. He promised to work for all of Uttar Pradesh and said that people should not take the law into their own hands.
 
 Adityanath also announced a government subsidy of Rs 1 lakh for healthy pilgrims who want to go on the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra.
 
 
  
 Yogi paid obeisance at the temples and performed a road show in the city.
 
 On Friday, Adityanath had visited the Dalit gang-rape and acid attack victim at King George's Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow. He also gave a cheque of Rs one lakh as compensation to the victim's husband and directed the police officials to immediately nab the accused and initiate strict action against the guilty.
 
 Earlier in the week, Adityanath had launched 'Anti-Romeo' squads to check on sexual assaults and harassment in public areas, ordered to shut down of illegal slaughter houses and also banned the use of pan masala and tobacco in the government premises in the state.
 
 After being assigned the charge of India's most politically-crucial state, Adityanath assured that Uttar Pradesh would soon be considered as the supreme state in the country.
 
 Earlier, on Monday, the priest-turned-politician directed all state government officers to declare their income and assets (movable and immovable) within 15 days.
 
 He had ordered all his ministers to do the same after being sworn-in as the Chief Minister on Sunday.
 
 
