
The state government has instituted several scholarships to stop school dropout rate from increasing, but young children studying in municipal-run schools here cannot get their hands on the benefits. It is mandatory to have an Aadhaar card to claim welfare, and hundreds of students from Class 1 to Class 4 have none.
 
 Under Unique Identification Authority of India, drives were held in civic schools last year to enrol students for Aadhaar cards by registering their fingerprints, iris scans and photographs. Once enrolled, students will get scholarship fund through Aadhaar-based Direct Benefit Transfer into their bank accounts.
 
 Around 1.31 lakh children study in AMC-run schools and most of them come from poor households. Such scholarships ensure that bright students do not dropout due to lack of funds.
 
 However, there are as many as 3,000 students of municipal schools across the city whose fingerprints could not be captured by the biometric system. As a result, they do not have an Aadhaar card which would have helped them open bank accounts and gain access to benefits.
 
 The Centre is planning to link Aadhaar card to mid-day meal scheme for schools, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan for universal education as well as the  , to safeguard rights of children.
 
 In the state, under Vidyalakshmi yojna, girls who enrol in Class 1get Rs 2,000 in the form of Narmada Nidhi bond. This is deposited in her bank amount. She can withdraw the amount when she passes Class 8. However, these students cannot avail themselves of such benefits.
 
 Kalidas Solanki, father of Class I student Harshil who studies in a municipal school in Naranpura ward, said, “The school tried to register my son under the UID scheme. I accompanied my child thrice for registration, but the machine did not register his fingerprint.“
 
 To this, AMC planning officer Pathik Shah said, “As children and elderly people have softer skin, it becomes harder for the machine to read their prints. They should try at least three times. If it still doesn't work, nothing can be done. We are in the process of upgrading software used by the biometric system which will done soon.“
 
 However, Mangilal Nat, father of Class I student Aarti studying at a Vadaj municipal school, said, “I took my child to the camp four times. I tried washing her hands, putting Vaseline, and all other tricks that the officials suggested so that the machine would read my kid's fingerprints. Nothing worked. We are still without an Aadhaar card.“
 
 School board chairman Pankajsinh Chauhan admitted they were facing problems with biometric machines. “To enrol our students under UID programme, we set up camps in all schools. There have been issues with fingerprints not getting registered.But, this should be solved soon,“ he said. Laghdhir Desai, administrative officer of  , said, “The scholarship of students will not be affected. To eliminate corruption, we will ensure that it is disbursed to deserving students who do not have Aadhaar cards in the presence of local councillors, SMC committee, school principal and parents.“ Scholarships are usually disbursed in March or April.
 
 Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “I do not know about such errors. I will check the problem and make sure that distribution of scholarships are not affected. We will upgrade the Aadhaar card system so that kids do not face any difficulty.“
 
 GPCC president Bharatsinh Solanki said, “BJP must put a proper system in place before making announcements. The government's unplanned and hasty decisions end up causing trouble for people.“
 
 AAP spokesperson Harshil Nayak also said that   government announces a lot of big schemes without thinking it through. “People are badly affected. This time, even kids were dragged to school several times. The government should have upgraded its system before holding the camps.
 
