NAGPUR: The state   has claimed that it was able to save 1.40 lakh tonnes of fuelwood annually by implementing the scheme to distribute   connections to villages around forest and protected areas (PAs).

 PCCF (head of forest force) Sarjan Bhagat said the scheme to distribute LPG connections to tribals and villagers living in and around jungles has not only helped the department provide multiple benefits to them but also save over 1.40 lakh tonnes of  .
 
 “We have till now distributed over 1.29 lakh LPG connections to villagers in territorial area and 11,791 to forest-dwellers residing in the buffer areas of tiger reserves under Dr  ,” said Bhagat.
 
 The saving of 1.40 lakh tonnes of fuelwood has been considered taking into account, by conservative estimate and a survey conducted by a voluntary organization, that one family of 4/5 members requires 4kg of fuelwood per day. Many villagers also collect firewood from their fields and boundaries for cooking food.
 
 The villagers are mostly tribals and from backward classes and hence they mainly depend on forest for fuelwood. Villagers cut branches of plants, trees as offshoots and collect firewood to meet their daily requirement.
 
 “This adversely affects the process of natural regeneration and reduces density. Moreover, women are worst sufferers of smoke while using firewood in chulhas, creating health hazards. Now, women have readily accepted LPG connections and are happy,” says Bhagat.
 
 “Number of women taking to LPG has reduced their trips to jungles in last four years. Thus, the percentage of felling of firewood has come down, reducing biotic pressure on forest,” said Bhagat.
 
 PCCF (wildlife)   explains, “Another aspect is that women venture deep into the forests to collect fuelwood and face attacks by wild animals but now this has stopped in the areas of beneficiaries.”
 
 Another benefit of the scheme is that carbon emissions have come down as the villagers have switched over to LPG. Non-use of firewood in the families of the villages has also improved sanitation. 
 
 Many women say the time which was earlier wasted to collect firewood can now be utilized for earning income through employment opportunities provided.
 
 “Now, their perception towards looking at jungle and wildlife has totally changed and they, in turn, contribute in protection and conservation of flora and fauna,” says Bhagat.
 
 However, NGOs working in Chandrapur said the claims of forest officials are not true as in entire Chandrapur district illicit felling of bamboo and firewood is rampant by villages around Tadoba.
 
