VARANASI: Intensifying the poll campaign in the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister  , the Congress-SP alliance has sought a reply from him for his promises made during 2014 Lok Sabha election. On the line of BJP, the alliance in UP, too, started a daily news briefing.

 Attacking the PM, AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik not only mocked at ‘Kashi-Kyoto’ pact but also sought PM’s reply on issues like smart city project, cleaning of Ganga, employment generation, demonetisation, and farmers’ plight. But, he felt some discomfort while replying the queries of media persons.
 
 “When I left for Varanasi my friends told to me that I am going to land in  . Today the biggest question is -what happened with Kashi-Kyoto pact. Even the initial exercise –signing an MoU between India and   for this purpose has not been done. PM did not fulfill the promises he had made during 2014 Lok Sabha election. People got disillusioned in 2.5-3-year rule of Modi government,” he said while talking to reporters here on Sunday. 
 
 While raising this issue Wasnik perhaps forgot that the Kashi-Kyoto pact was not a pre poll promise. The Partner City Affiliation Agreement between Varanasi and Kyoto was signed during the visit of PM to Japan during August - September, 2014. The first meeting of the Steering Committee on Kyoto-Varanasi formed by the ministry of urban development was held in January 2015. The steering committee was formed to facilitate the modernization of water management, sewage management, waste management and urban transportation, drawing upon Japanese expertise and technologies. The committee will also promote the application of Japanese practices, techniques and management for conservation of rich heritage of Varanasi and foster exchanges between Kyoto University and Banares Hindu University. BHU signed an MoU with Kyoto and Shimane universities of Japan in August 2015 to promote research activities and to facilitate student and faculty exchange programmes. Earlier in March 2015, BHU’s Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development (IESD) and Graduate School of Global Environmental studies (GSGES), Kyoto University also signed an MoU as a part of the Kashi-Kyoto partnership.
 
 “Taking Ganga-jal in his hand the PM had taken pledge that he would clean the river. But the government did not take adequate steps in this direction. He had promised two crores jobs, but as per record the government could provide jobs to only 1.15 lak people in a year. Crores of rupees were spent on Make in India, but there is no outcome of it. Crores of people lost their jobs after demonetisation that affected the entire country adversely. The promise made to farmers was not fulfilled. PM should give answer to these questions,” said Wasnik and alleged that instead speaking on these issues the PM lost control over his language and started leveling baseless allegation on rivals. 
 
 When asked about the failure of Ganga Action Plan launched by the then PM late Rajiv Gandhi in Varanasi in 1986, Wasnik said, “It is the thing of past. We are here to seek ‘lekha-jokha’ (account) of PM Modi”. He also skipped the query related to the performance of   Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) initiated by the   government. 
 
