VADODARA: The next time you visit a   to repair your two-wheeler or car, the mechanic will note your  , engine chassis number,   and take your mobile number. 

 The city police have come up with an innovative idea to deal with the increasing number of vehicle thefts in the city. Mechanics from the city have come together and formed an association to help the police department in tracing stolen vehicles and gangs. 
 
 The association that already has 350 mechanics as its members will become the eyes and ears of the police that is planning to crack down on vehicle thieves. “Garages are the place where most vehicles land up either for maintenance or repairing works. If any vehicle is stolen, there are possibilities of it being taken to garage for repair work. If the mechanics keep database of the vehicles taken to them for repairs, we will be able to scan their data,” said police commissioner,  . 
 
 “If the stolen car or two-wheeler has been taken to any garage, we will be able to track down its movement and nab the accused too. We are trying something different and being proactive to deal with the vehicle thefts. We have been able to bring down the number of vehicle thefts in last two months as compared to the same period last year,” Sashidhar told TOI. The garages will maintain a diary that will keep records of all the vehicles repaired there. 
 
 The police said that it will make efforts to make all the 1,200 mechanics in the city members of the association as it wants to involve them in their battle against the vehicle stealing gangs. Some alert mechanics also notice the difference in the license plate series and manufacturing year of the vehicle that comes for repair works, and their tip-off to the cops may help in nabbing the thieves. 
 
 “Vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, are stolen either from busy areas or very isolated spots. We have begun putting barricades at some busy areas in the city so that the two-wheelers are parked properly and chances of thefts reduce. Also our teams keep patrolling the spots from where theft complaints are frequent,” said a police official.
 
 
