ISLAMABAD: Pakistan PM   on Saturday removed his special assistant on foreign affairs,  , after an inquiry found him guilty of leaking information to the media about a rift between Pakistan's civilian and military leaderships during a high-level meeting last year.

 The meeting, which discussed about the lack of action against militants, had taken place on October 3, 2016, days after India's surgical strikes across LoC on the intervening night of September 28-29.
 
 However, hours after the PM's office issued the directive on Fatemi's removal, the Pakistan army rejected the notification calling it `incomplete'.
 
 The episode, called “Dawn leaks“, saw the country's leading newspaper publish details of the meeting in which the civilian leaders had told the military brass that its inaction against jihadi outfits was responsible for the country's growing diplomatic isolation.
 
 The report in Dawn had created a storm with the Pakistan government denying the news as `fabricated and planted'. On the other hand, the Army leadership had said the episode was a serious breach of national security and demanded a probe into the matter to find the persons who were responsible for sharing information of the meeting with the media.
 
 Under duress, the government had last year set up an inquiry committee to probe the news report which was published on October 6, 2016. The committee's report said that Fatemi was primarily responsible for leaking the information to the newspaper without due permission. On the basis of the committee's recommendations, Sharif sacked Fatemi and approved proceedings against Rao Tehsin Ali, principal information officer of the ministry of information, who was also indicted in the report.
 
 Sharif further directed the All Pakistan Newspapers Society (APNS) to take disciplinary action against Dawn, its editor, Zafar Abbas, and Cyril Almeida, the correspondent who had reported the story. 
 
 However, notwithstanding the action taken by him, Sharif, who is already under pressure due to the Panama papers case verdict, is in for a confrontation with the military establishment. Army Major Gen Asif Ghafoor, who heads the Inter Services Public Relations, the army's media wing, said in a tweet: “Notification on Dawn Leak is incomplete and not in line with recommendations by the Inquiry Board. Notification is rejected.“
 
 Interior minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said his ministry would issue a notification in line with the recommendations of the inquiry board.
 
