KOLKATA: Waiting for three weeks since   showed   member   the door on September 13 and sent the recommendation to the CPM central committee (CC) for ratification, Banerjee will now meet upper House chairman   and urge him to allocate a seat in Rajya Sabha as an "unattached" member.

 "I will be seeking an appointment with the Rajya Sabha chairman in a day and meet him about my changed status once the party has expelled me," Banerjee said from his Kolkata residence.
 
 Banerjee doesn't mind not being communicated about the expulsion. "I haven't got any communication from the party as yet. I will thus take a copy of the press release uploaded on the CPM website where it has made my expulsion public and submit it to the RS chairman," he said.
 
 Strictly speaking, Banerjee's expulsion from CPM's primary membership under clause 19(13) of the party constitution, a day after he openly challenged the party on private television channels, is subject to ratification by the CC. Asked about Banerjee's status in the party, a CC member said: "Ritabrata stands expelled from the party unless the CC reverses the decision of the   state committee, which is unlikely in this case." As a result, the CPM parliamentary party committee hasn't communicated the expulsion decision to the RS chairman.
 
 However, Banerjee isn't going to wait for the CC meeting on October 14 to know if the CC ratifies the expulsion decision. "It's a mere technicality and of little value to the people of   I represent because they have already got the news of my expulsion.Even the party has uploaded the news on the website of the CPM central committee." According to party insiders, the CC is likely to ratify the expulsion decision but may stop short of communicating it to the RS chairman, paving the way for his continuing as member as an unattached MP. Banerjee, on the other hand, doesn't want to give up his Rajya Sabha membership. Instead, he wants to continue in RS till the end of his term in April 2020.
 
 "A section within CPM is spreading rumours that I will be joining  . I will leave for Delhi tomorrow and meet the RS chairman soon. I grew up in a Left atmosphere and will continue to raise the burning issues of Bengal. I believe the RS chairman will give me time in the House to raise the pertinent issues," he said.
 
 
 
 Preparations for CPM's 22nd party congress in April 2018 began at its headquarters on Monday with the politburo discussing the outline of the draft political resolution to be taken up at the meet. The draft outline will be discussed at the central committee meeting from October 14 to 16.
 
