NAGPUR:   (RSSC) were banking on their strikers   and   for their first win in the ongoing NDFA Elite Division Super Six phase.   were giving everything they had to nail the final nail in South Eastern Central Railway’s (SECR) coffin in latter’s home—Motibag Stadium on Saturday.

 In the last minute, RSSC’s 7 men were in the penalty box. Christopher Peter, on the left flank, dodged defender Dipankar B, created room and struck it right on the target. The ball zoomed, missed three SECR defenders and RSSC striker Sherley before landing in the stomach of Arvin, just a short distance away from the extreme right post.
 
 All Arvin needed to do was to put the ball in the net but he deflected it wide and missed the golden opportunity to script an exciting victory.
 
 SECR were more experienced than the rivals. They resorted to smart defensive play after getting into the lead in the 26th minute. Once their winger Akshay Meshram scored a brilliant goal off the rebound, they opted to take time and played it safe.
 
 SECR midfielders Jude Anthony, Nitin Kottoulwar and Shubhang Mannewar didn’t let the ball go and even tackled nicely to get back the possession. It was not only the trio, who was making life difficult for RSSC, but also the SECR goalkeeper Owais Khan, who prevented his team from losing. After the break, SECR continued their safe play. They consumed time by taking time to start the game after a foul. Also, their players mocked injuries and called their physiotherapist time and again.
 
 When RSSC was finding it difficult to penetrate, they got a free-kick in the 56th minute, which was taken by Vasu Kanojia.
 
 Vasu, who plays crucial role in knitting attacks, didn’t get the elevation on his free-kick and the ball slowly headed towards the goal. SECR Amit Anthony got the ball on his lap and before it could be cleared, the ball kissed his leg and got into his own goal.
 
 Anthony’s own goal made it 1-1 and pumped the young RSSC side with confidence. After getting dominated by SECR till 56th minutes, RSSC changed the tempo of the game and kept attacking the home team in their own den.
 
 RSSC’s Arvin and Christopher got opportunities to score but their attempts were saved by SECR custodian Owais. Owais saved the SECR blushes as he ended up saving four direct attacks in the match.
 
 
