MUMBAI: The city’s fight against   (TB) has got a bit hi-tech and personalized. A new   is under   in the city that sequences the whole genome of a patient’s   microbe to get the exact nature of drug resistance within a few days. At present, it takes weeks to determine if a patient is extremely drug resistant to TB and, if so, which   would work. 

 The three-year trial began at Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, in January. “In the whole genome sequencing (WGS) project, we are collaborating with Oxford University. It is funded by Gates Foundation and Wellcome Trust,’’ said Dr Camilla Rodrigues, who heads the microbiology department of the hospital. Her team will test 6,000 patients from Mumbai for this project, which is an eight-nation study of around 1,00,000 patients.
 
 Tuberculosis has emerged as one of the biggest public health challenges across the globe. India is home to nearly a quarter of all TB patients. TB infects nearly 10 million people each year and kills 1.5 million. Oxford University said, “A potential alternative (to present methods) to help with faster identification of drug-resistant TB is to use WGS to determine the genetic code of the TB bacterium. This genetic code can be compared against a library of other TB bacteria with known drug-resistance.’’ Dr Rodrigues said this method is extensively used in the UK.
 
 However, experts said India has a long way ahead as far as TB control is concerned. “Given present trends, it would not be possible to eliminate TB by 2025,’’ said Hinduja Hospital’s Dr Zarir Udwadia, whose research paper on the emergence of totally drug-resistant TB in 2012 started the present changes in TB control.
 
 He said the country has only 0.4 GeneXpert machines per million population; GeneXpert helps diagnose multi-drug-resistant TB within two hours. Other tests to detect drug resistance take up to three weeks. There also is a need for new medicines to combat the drug-resistant forms of TB, Dr Udwadia added.
 
 Meanwhile, the 18-year-old Patna girl, who had to move Delhi high court to get access to a new anti-tuberculosis drug, bedaquiline, is recovering well, said Dr Zarir Udwadia at a press conference on Thursday. The girl is among few to undergo a novel combination of two new drugs bedaquiline and delamanid as well as few known drugs. “She has been following up with us regularly and seems to be doing well,’’ he said. Health activists have been petitioning the central government to provide better access to these new drugs. Incidentally, another patient of Dr Udwadia passed away a few months back as she could not get timely access to delamanid. The teenager was first given bedaquiline but could not get delamanid as she was not 18 years old. By the time she got access, it could not do much to help her.
 
 
