NEW DELHI: About 75% of 1.7 lakh tonnes of municipal waste ( ) that Indian cities and towns generate daily goes to landfill sites or dumping yards untreated and civic bodies cover only 44,650 out of 81,000 municipal wards through their door-to-door collection scheme. These statistics tell the government where to concentrate funds and policy planning if   is to deliver the results PM   has sought.

 The inadequacy of the municipal mechanism to collect and transport garbage from urban homes to dumping yards is a significant lacuna and highlights the need for smarter integration of Swachh Bharat with urban renewal programmes like AMRUT.
 
 Segregation of waste at generation is hardly a norm despite efforts to promote it. Though in the past three years construction of public and community toilets has touched 2.26 lakh, there is no uniform mechanism for maintenance and sweeping and lifting of garbage across urban areas.
 
 Officials from Centre, state, municipalities and the private sector that TOI spoke to summarised these aspects as key challenges that city and state governments need to improve for proper sanitation in urban areas.
 
 So far 30.74 lakh household toilets have been built against the target of 65.82 lakh by October 2019.
 
 “Urban issues are state subject and success or failure is determined by public participation and political drive.
 
 Cities in southern states have done well simply because there is concerted effort in which local leaders give   priority. Indore did well when the state and municipality took it up as a mission,” said an official.
 
 “Municipalities cannot spend more on collection, transportation and processing of garbage as many are hard put to pay salaries,” the official said, adding the challenge was of building managerial capacity as well as tapping funds.
 
 Some municipal officials agreed financial health of municipalities is poor and it’s almost impossible for small ones to fund treating waste. “Centre gives only 35% of expenses for the entire solid waste management chain. Getting the rest from state and municipality is difficult in most states except a few like Maharashtra. Small urban areas growing fast are hit hardest,” said an official from an eastern state.
 
 An urban affairs ministry official said there are instances of filth being dumped on the outskirts of cities. This sorts of short-cuts defeat the purpose of Swachh Bharat. Half of the garbage that urban areas generate is wet and bio-degradable. “That’s why the focus is more on making compost from waste,” he added. In fact, 100 kg of such waste gets reduced to 15 gram of compost for cultivation.
 
 State and municipalities have set up 145 plants that can produce 15 lakh tonnes of compost annually. But official records show plants are working at only 14% capacity generating just a little over 2 lakh tonnes, of which just 50% compost so produced is sold. This has direct impact on a city’s garbage management, said three major private players engaged in waste to compost initiative.
 
 Though government has a policy that fertiliser manufacturing companies must sell one bag of compost with every two bags of chemical fertilizer, compost producers said this is yet to pick up. “Why can’t government issue an instruction to all horticulture and forest departments to buy compost?
 
 Getting segregated waste will reduce cost of running compost plants and make the business viable,” said a manager of a big plant in Gujarat.
 
