In the past two years,   faced floods, a cyclone and drought. However, the central allocation under the National Disas er Response Fund (NDRF) has gone up by only 18% ('1,550 crore), whereas Tamil Nadu had sought '22,000 crore for cyclone mitigation alone. Similarly, grants given to the State Disas er Relief Fund (SDRF) have come down between the budget estimates for 2016-17 and revised estimates. Experts say the money is grossly inadequate.

 Chief minister   met Prime Minister   on December 20 and sought an immediate relief of '1,000 crore to mitigate the sufferings of people whose property has been damaged due to cyclone Vardah which hit the Chennai coast. But the state is yet to get any money though a central team has visited the affected areas.
 
 “The actual increase in the NDRF account is a pittance.Each year at least four states face natural calamities. The increase of '1,550 crore is very marginal,“   (MIDS) water expert S Janakarajan told TOI. Soon after it is hit by a natural calamity, a state needs financial support from the Centre for immediate relief and then for long term mitigation and adaptation.
 
 “Soon after massive floods hit Chennai and other districts in 2015, the state sought more than '20,000 crore as relief, whereas the total amount spent under the NDRF across the country in 2015-16 was just '10,890 crore,“ said Janakarajan. To be fair to the Centre, the actual amount spent under the NDRF has been more than what has been mentioned in the budget. “The Centre must be hiding the figures by showing lower allocation under the NDRF to show a lower fiscal deficit for that year. But in actual spending, it will be more and they will submit a revised estimate with a better revenue and maintain the same fiscal deficit,“ said a senior IAS officer.
 
 Another announcement made by Union finance minister   is on creating 5 lakh ponds to prevent drought in many states. “For creating a pond we need land and it has to be in an area that receives rain.The minister has merely made the announcement without allocating a single rupee for this,“ said the water expert.
 
 “For creating a pond we need 5-10 lakh. “Thus, for creating 5 lakh ponds the Centre must spend around 5 lakh crore. Does the Centre or any state have so much money to create ponds,“ asked Janakarajan.
 
