Author   sparked an outrage among   supporters online after her comment about trans women not being real women in an interview went viral. Promoting her new book Dear Ijeawele   the author gave an interview to U.K.’s Channel 4 recently, where she said, “When people talk about, ‘Are trans women women?’ my feeling is trans women are trans women.” 
 
 The arguement is based on her idea that trans women have the previledges of a male while growing up until they decide to transition which sets them apart from cis-women. “I think the whole problem of gender in the world is about our experiences... It’s not about how we wear our hair or whether we have a vagina or a penis. It’s about the way the world treats us, and I think if you’ve lived in the world as a man with the privileges that the world accords to men and then sort of change gender, it’s difficult for me to accept that then we can equate your experience with the experience of a woman who has lived from the beginning as a woman and who has not been accorded those privileges that men are," Adichie further said.
  
 Following her remark many people voiced their opinion against the acclaimed writer on Twitter.
  
  
  
 
 Raquel Willis, a Black queer transgender activist and the communications associate for Transgender Law Center, too condemned Adichie in a series of tweets. Willis even said that Adichie was not the right person to comment on trans people's experiences as she is not one herself.
  
 
 
 With criticism pouring in on social media, Adichie took to her official Facebook page where she tried to defend herself through a post on March 11. 
 
  
 
 
 She also posted her clarification on March 13 wherein she stated, "Perhaps I should have said trans women are trans women and cis women are cis women and all are women. Except that 'cis' is not an organic part of my vocabulary. And would probably not be understood by a majority of people. Because saying ‘trans’ and ‘cis’ acknowledges that there is a distinction between women born female and women who transition, without elevating one or the other, which was my point."
  
 She further added saying that she would continue to stand up for the rights of transgender people and  . Concluding her thoughts she wrote, "I think of   as Feminisms. Race and class shape our experience of gender. Sexuality shapes our experience of gender. And so when I say that I think trans women are trans women, it is not to diminish or exclude trans women but to say that we cannot insist – no matter how good our intentions – that they are the same as women born female. Nor do I think that we need to insist that both are the same.
  
 "To acknowledge different experiences is to start to move towards more fluid – and therefore more honest and true to the real world – conceptions of gender."
 
 
