NAVI MUMBAI: After receiving one bid for development of Navi Mumbai International   (NMIA) on Monday,   extended the deadline for submission of financial   to January 25. MIAL (GVK Group) was the only qualified bidder to submit its bid on January 9, forcing Cidco to set a fresh deadline, for the Rs 16,700 crore project. 

 GMR Airport Ltd, MIA Infrastructure (Vinci Airports and Tata Realty) and Voluptas Developers (Hiranandani and Zurich Airport) did not submit bids. Cidco officials sought permission of the project management and implementation committee to extend the deadline and a new date was set. “We returned bid documents of MIAL (GVK) as there is a fresh deadline. They can submit a fresh bid along with others on the extended date,” said Mohan Ninawe, senior public relations officer, Cidco.
 
 A senior Cidco official said though as per rules they can go ahead even if there are only one or two bids, Cidco may grant another extension if there are only one or two bidders on January 25. 
 
 GMR Airport Ltd, Voluptas Developers (Hiranandani and Zurich Airport) and MIA Infrastructure (Vinci Airports and Tata Realty) had indicated they would not participate in the bids due to problems in the project. Some qualified bidders had pointed to delay in pre-development work, land acquisition and rehabilitation of project-affected persons, and also lack of stage two environmental clearances, besides award of pre-development works to a bidder in the fray, and deadlines set for completing development of the airport.
 
 A GMR Airport Ltd spokesperson said, “A single bid for the prestigious and critical Navi Mumbai project is affirmation of our stand that onerous conditions pertaining to project implementation, timelines and concession terms need to be addressed on priority to enable wider participation.”
 
 Cidco MD Bhushan Gagrani said, “We are in constant communication with all bidders, these problems have not arisen suddenly. We have tried to address their concerns earlier too.”
 
 
