JAIPUR: A high voltage drama was witnessed here on Saturday when police in large numbers tried to enter into   to conduct searches following intelligence reports of  , wanted in  , being given shelter inside bhavan by  .

 At 1.30 pm, several police teams led by additional commissioner of police (second) Nitin Deep Blaggan and additional deputy commissioner of police (South) Yogesh Goyal cordoned off the MI Road to prevent Gogamadi from leaving Rajput Sabha Bhavan, whom, they suspected was hiding inside sabha bhavan.
 
 While Rajput leaders like Giriraj Singh Lotwara and Karni Sena chief Lokendra Singh were holding a press meet inside the conference room of the Rajput Sabha Bhavan, the police crews outside were surrounding the sabha bhavan.
 
 Initially, when ADCP Yogesh Goyal attempted to enter into the premises, but several Rajput youths chanted slogans against them and tried to prevent the police teams from entering into the building. After much cajoling when the police crews finally entered sabha bahavan to conduct searches, they were prevented to search inside three servant quarters located inside the building.
 
 “These servant rooms are locked from outside. And I didn’t have keys to open them. The police actions are illegal. They are hounding Rajputs,” alleged Rajput Sabha Bhavan president Giriraj Singh Lotwara.
 
 However, sources within Rajasthan police told TOI that they had specific intelligence input about Sukhdev Singh Gogamadi hiding inside the building. “Sukhdev Singh is wanted by Nagaur police in Wednesday violence case, as he had provoked people to resort to violence. We searched every corner of the building, but we found three rooms being locked. When we tried to open those room, we were faced with resistance,” a police official told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 Congress leader Pratap Singh Khachariyawas arrived at the spot and diffused tension. ‘We have asked police to give us a list of charges against the people wanted by them. I have asked Rajput Sabha Bhavan to turn those people to police,” he said.
 
 However, the police said that intelligence officers have been kept outside Rajput Sabha Bhavan to stop the suspect from leaving the building . “There was a stiff resistance which prevented us from carry out our work. But we are keeping a tight vigil,” the official said.
 
