AURANGABAD: The state home department has issued a government resolution (GR) directing all the police units across Maharashtra to ensure that an officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police or assistant commissioner file all the   on behalf of the police department in all the courts.

 The   ( ) recently came down heavily on the state, after it found that an officer of the rank of   had filed an affidavit on behalf of Raigad superintendent of police.
 
 The GR issued on July 19 citing the Raigad incident, has stunned the police department across the state, as almost all the affidavits were being filed by police inspectors from respective units on behalf of the police department.
 
 Police authorities here said that in any give police unit, all the affidavits, unless in very important cases, are approved either by deputy superintendent of police (home/headquarter) in district units or deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) in city police commissionorates. On behalf of the police department, these affidavits are filed in the court by the police inspectors.
 
 Following a suit filed by a  , Raigad police department followed the same pattern, only to receive flak from the MAT.
 
 A senior officer from Raigad told TOI, “Unhappy about an internal decision, a police officer challenged it before the MAT, Bombay in 2016. Accordingly, notices were issued to the home department and Raigad police department and replies were sought. The Raigad district police’s affidavit (reply) was filed by a police inspector, which was not appreciated by the MAT.”
 
 The officer said that there are reports that the police inspector also failed to answer some of the queries raised in MAT, following which the court expressed serious displeasure over the matter.
 
 The state home department, taking serious cognizance of MATs observations, issued a GR stating that in an ongoing case before the the tribunal, an officer of the rank of police inspector has filed an affidavit on behalf of the Raigad superintendent of police, which has been disliked by MAT. Henceforth, all affidavits filed in the courts on behalf of the police department should be filed by an officer at least of the rank of deputy SP or ACP (grade-A/gazetted).
 
