'Nothing is new about doing covers of popular song. Of late though, the covers have now extended to include dance covers and fan covers. One such dance cover of a Malayalam song 'Jimikki Kammal' reached Jimmy Kimmel. The trend in India, however, caught on in a big way when everyone — from celebs to masses — wanted to be part of the 'Prem Ratan Dhan Paayo' title song’s signature step. While that could be counted as part of film promotions, the trend of covers caught on in a big way in the country. And ever since, artistes from all genres in the Indian music and dance world are giving their own spin to popular international songs. The popularity of such songs no longer depends on the views, but the number of fan videos it triggers of. Here are some of them...

 
 
 
 
 'Closer', a duet drama by The Chainsmokers (Andrew Taggart and Alex Pall) and Halsey caught music lovers’ fancy in a big way. Classical to pop — everyone wanted to interpret it in their own way. Says Andrew, when he was in India for a concert, "I think it's crazy because a lot of the lyrics of the song have American references. So, it's funny to think that people on the other side of the world have loved the song and come up with their own versions." Alex finds a piano cover done by an Indian 'quite cool'. However, the one that benefitted the most was Vidya Vox, who did a mashup of 'Closer/Kabira'. She has now emerged as one of the most promising talent in the music world.
  
  
 
 
 'Shape Of You' is said to be the first international song in India to cross 200 million views. It won’t be surprising if the catchy song tops the cover dance videos list too. The Carnatic version composed by Aditya Rao, Vinod Krishnan and Mahesh Raghvan is the most popular. Says Shakti Mohan, who was part of a dance cover with sister Mukti, "I wanted to do something that is a fusion and the Indian version was perfect for me. We shot this song on the terrace of our house."
 
 
 
 Indians gave a desi touch to the haunting TV serial score — even drumming up a dhol tasha and tabla (by Karan Chitra Deshmukh) version. But the classical version created by Mahesh Raghvan for 'Jon Snow comes back as Jonachandra Snownaswami' on his smartphone is the most popular one. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Though the song is an apology to a lover, the style of dancehall-pop makes it a sought-after dance number, especially Bollywood. While Badshah and Armaan Malik have come out with their versions of the songs, it is choreographer Shereen Ladhia's video that has gone viral. Calling it 'Maafi', she Bollywoodised the pop song and also included signature steps of songs like 'Kajra Re' and 'Hangover'.
 
 
 
 Said to be the first Spanish song to reach No. 1 spot, Puerto Rican singer-rapper duo Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s 'Despacito' is the first popular Spanish song in 20 years since the success of 'Macarena'. Everyone wanted to be a part of the reggaeton-pop song, be it as a remix (like Justin Bieber's) or dance covers. But it was choreographer Shiamak Davar's version that caught the duo's eyes. "Hello India! I’m in love with your 'Despacito' dance video! You’ve taken 'Despacito' to the next level! Thank you so much,” Fonsi reportedly said. Incidentally, the video was a tribute to celebrate the success of the song in India.
  
  
  
 — Inputs by Purvaja.Sawant @timesgroup.com and Garvita.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
