T'puram: Kuttanad MLA  , who is the fourth minister from Alappuzha, is also the richest minister in the   cabinet. Chandy, who became the first ever minister representing Kuttanad constituency had disclosed assets worth Rs. 92.37 crore as per the affidavit filed in April, 2016, before the election commission. The statement doesn't include the valuation of three Indian schools in Kuwait and one school in Saudi Arabia, promoted by him. 

 The 69-year old new minister hasn't availed any loan from the banks or financial institutions in the country. Chandy and wife Mercy Chandy hold life insurance policies for hefty sums taken from various insurance companies. Cumulative value of their insurance policies will be over Rs 60 lakh. 
 
 The new minister, who is supposed to drive KSRTC ahead, owns a fleet of vehicles including luxury cars and motor boats. Along with Skoda Superb and Toyota Innova cars, Thomas Chandy owns two house boats, two speed boats and four motor boats. They were valued over Rs 20 lakh in the affidavit. The Chandy couple also owns 600 gm gold jewellery. The minister and wife own realty in Kainakary, Champakulam, Alappuzha West and Poonithura. 
 
 Thomas Chandy is also a shareholder of Lakeshore hospital, Kochi. He owns share worth Rs 1 crore in the hospital. Waterworld tourism company private limited, which has interests in tourism sector is co-owned by Chandy and wife. The company promotes Lake Palace tourist resort at Alappuzha and   in Kochi. 
 
 Thomas Chandy, 69, was born on August 29, 1947 at Chennamkary in Alappuzha. He entered politics as an active worker of KSU and then in Youth Congress. Chandy is representing Kuttanad for the third time in a row. 
 
 An avid swimmer who doesn't misses his daily jogging session, Chandy has a penchant to build up business enterprises from scratches. He had a humble beginning as a store keeper in a company Gulf. From there, he grew as the logistics general manger of a firm.
 
  "At that time, education facilities were too little for people of Indian origin. They were forced to send family back to Kerala just for the sake of the education of their kids. This situation has necessitated the birth of Indian school in Kuwait. I had to run from pillar to post to get necessary clearances for the school," Chandy, a diploma holder in telecommunications, said after taking over as the minister. 
 
 Promising that he would be a full time minister who will work hard to uplift an ailing KSRTC, 
 
 Chandy said there was a well settled mechanism to take care of his business abroad. "Even if I don't go there, nothing will happen. There are people good enough to handle the job," said Chandy. 
 
 
