MUMBAI: The   is set to adhere to its demand for 105 of the total 227 seats in the  , sources said on Sunday. This could be a major stumbling block during   as  , which considers itself a stellar partner in the BMC, is not willing to offer more than 100 seats to the BJP. 

 The BMC elections are scheduled on February 21.
 
 The seat-sharing talks, which were discontinued over the weekend because of Makar Sankranti, will resume on Monday. Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar, and senior ministers Vinod Tawde and Prakash Mehta will represent the party at the meeting, while the Sena has deputed minister Subhash Desai, Anil Desai, MP, and Anil Parab for negotiations, sources said.
 
 A sizeable section in Sena and BJP claimed that poll pact is a dim possibility as pressure is mounting from the rank and file of both parties to go solo for the crucial elections. 
 
 “We will not settle for anything less than 105 seats in the BMC; not even 104,” said a senior state BJP functionary. “The Sena should take into account the post-2014 situation. The BJP holds the No. 1 position in Maharashtra. The latest municipal council polls across Maharashtra, too, have proved beyond a shred of doubt that the BJP tops the chart in state politics.” 
 
 The Sena is ready to offer 90-100 seats to the BJP, said a party functionary. “The BJP lacks organizational muscle in Mumbai. They are poaching on other parties as they don’t have candidates of their own,” he said. “The BJP may be flexing its muscles only to impress its grassroots workers. At the end of the day, they will accept whatever we give them.” 
 
 The saffron siblings continued to clash ahead of the seat distribution negotiations. Sena president Uddhav Thackeray advised party workers, in a jibe at the BJP, not to trust “treacherous” friends. Equally acerbic has been Kirit Somaiya’s rebuff. “They (the Sena) will have to come along with us...They are helpless, they have no choice,” said the BJP MP on Sunday. 
 
 The BJP on Sunday announced a 29-member poll committee for BMC elections. The panel includes senior party functionaries, apart from the Shelar-Tawde-Mehta troika, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Yogesh Sagar, Amarjit Mishra, Sunil Rane and others.
 
 
