HYDERABAD: A woman who gave birth to an infant girl in  ,  , several days ago has now approached   alleging that her daughter was swapped.
She said the hospital staff swapped her daughter with another infant girl delivered during the same time by another woman in the same labour room.
 
 Tameena Sultana, a resident of MM Nagar, Kishan Bagh, had delivered on April 12. Since then the family had been pursuing the matter with the hospital, which rejected her claims based on a blood test.
 
 On Friday , the family approached the police who sent the mother, father and baby for DNA analysis at the State Forensics Laboratory . In her complaint, Ta meena said she was shown her daughter after birth and then the baby was taken away for a bath by a woman staff along with the girl delivered by the other woman, Yadamma.
 
 Tameena claims that it was some other woman staff who brought the baby back after the bath. However, she alleged that it was not the infant shown to her.
 
 “Tameena's family says that the infant in their possession has no facial features which resembles with their family . Besides, the girl's complexion is darker than the one shown immediately after birth.This makes them suspect that the girls were swapped by class IV employees after taking them for bath,'' Charminar inspector K Chandra Shekar Reddy said.
 
 A hunt for Yadamma hit a dead end after police failed to find her at the Kali Kabar residential address given by her to the hospital. Neighbours were also not aware of Yadamma's family staying there.
 
 When asked about the delay on part of Tameena in lodging the complaint, police said that initially they made representation to hospital senior authorities who allegedly did not bother to take interest to prove that Tameena was given her biological child.“The hospital authorities merely did a blood test and declared that there was not swap,'' the inspector said.
 
 Police said that a   will now be done to dispel Tameena's doubt and samples of all relevant persons will be taken by forensic authorities for medical examination.
 
