KOLKATA: Rail services between   and Kolkata started limping back to normal from Wednesday , nearly a month after floods damaged tracks and bridges under the   (NFR) jurisdiction.

 However, there is no mad rush of tourists towards north   for the Pujas, thanks to the ongoing agitation in the Darjeeling hills.There also seems to be a lack of enthusiasm among people to spend their holidays in Sikkim or the Dooars this year.
 
 Among the trains that started running from Wednesday are Darjeeling Mail, Padatik Express and the Kanchan Kanya Express. Some other trains like the HowrahGuwahati Saraighat Express, Kanchanjungha Express and  , which pass through north Bengal had already started running a few days ago. So had the Kolkata-Radhikapur Express. “There is no great demand for berths on north Bengal-bound trains. Though all the trains are fully booked, the waitlist numbers aren't too high.We expect that there will be some cancellations at the last moment. Many had booked tickets for   and Sashti well in advance and were hoping that the situation in Darjeeling will return to normal. Maybe, they have also made alternate arrangements to travel to other parts of the country but had kept the north Bengal option open. Till 2016, there used to be a mad rush for tickets and we had to run several special trains between north Bengal and Kolkata. This year, not a single special train has been announced till now,“ a senior   (ER) official said.
 
 The last time such a situation occurred in 2013 after the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) had launched a similar agitation. The situation, however, had improved during the Pujas that year and some tourists had travelled to the Hills.
 
 ER will be running 156 Puja specials this year towards several locations in north India, including Hardwar, Lucknow, New Delhi and Jammu Tawi. There will also be special trains towards Indore and Puri. ER has also announced 14 pairs of weekly special trains between Howrah and Ramnagar in the Nainital district of Uttarakhand after determining, which destinations are people's favourite this year.
 
