PATNA: Bihar School Examination Board ( ) on Monday assured the Class X board examinees that they would get full marks for the incorrect answer key provided to the evaluators. 

 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor after a meeting with the board’s governing body and officials said, “As soon as I got the information that there are dozens of mistakes in the answer key of science, social science and mathematics papers given to the evaluators, I asked the examination cell to look into the matter. The board will rectify the error by giving full marks for the wrong options given in the answer key.”
 
 A three-tier committee comprising BSEB secretary Anup Kumar Sinha, academic director AK Pandaya and chief vigilance officer Sudhir Srivastava has been constituted. “The committee will inquiry into the matter and the teachers who prepared the answer key of these subjects will be blacklisted. The committee will also ensure that there is no mistake in the answer key of other subjects of Class X board exam. They will also ensure that such mistakes are not committed in future,” said Kishor.
 
 “The evaluation work is over. So, it is wise to award the marks for wrong answer key as it is not possible for the evaluators to go through each and every answer book once again. It will only delay the result,” he said.
 
 Over 17.6 lakh students appeared for Class X board exam this year. The errors in answer key were first pointed out by the members of Bihar Secondary School Teacher’s Association (BSSTA) on Sunday. 
 
 BSSTA general secretary Shatrughan Prasad Singh said it happened because of the carelessness of the board and allowing the primary and middle school teachers to evaluate the answer books of matriculation examination. “The decision taken by the board is injustice to those who have given the right answers as those who answered wrong will also get full marks for nothing,” he said.
 
 “We found so many problems in objective-type questions, but we can only guess how many errors were in the subjective ones. We had warned the board and the state government not to rope in primary and middle school teachers, but they didn’t pay heed. Now, who will pay the consequences? The board has played with the future of the children,” said Singh.
 
 The association also pointed out that there are mistakes in scoring sheets as well. “Instead of making the score sheet in a set of 10 questions (for physics, chemistry and biology and history, geography and civics) as it was in the question papers, the board has straight away given the score sheet in which questions were numbered 1 to 68. How they will rectify this. It will only create confusion when students request for scrutiny,” Singh said.
 
 
