CHNADIGARH: Claiming that “afraid of his increasing status, AAP leadership itself had engineered the sting operation on   last year”, former joint secretary of the party Gurlabh Singh Mahal said that the its former state convener had actually refused to accept Rs 2 lakh offered to him. Mahal, who had executed the plan of the covert operation, claimed that though he was provided a device to carry out the plan, he recorded it with front camera of his mobile but only Chhotepur’s audio could be captured.

 Mahal, however, did not bring forward any evidence against the AAP leaders he named. Addressing a press conference here, he alleged that the sting was planned by AAP’s Punjab affairs in charge Sanjay Singh, national organizational secretary Durgesh Pathak, Himmat Singh Shergill, and Harjot Bains. They acted after getting a go ahead from party supremo  , he claimed. The objective, he said, was to get rid of Chhotepur as he was emerging as the main power centre of the party in the state.
 
 “The primary reason that led to the expulsion of Chhotepur was that he had emerged as a Sikh face in Punjab with majority of the party volunteers backing him. This eventually did not go down well with Kejriwal, who hatched a conspiracy to sack Chhotepur. He was sacrificed at the altar of Kejriwal’s ego, ambition and insecurity,” Mahal alleged in front of the media.
 
 An AAP volunteer since 2013, Mahal said he was a joint secretary of party’s Punjab unit’s legal cell at that time.
 
 Describing the entire episode, he said, “It was in July 2016 when I was invited by Shergill, the then chief of AAP legal cell in Punjab and now candidate from Majitha, to his house in Chandigarh. When I reached there, I found Sanjay, Pathak and Bains, now a candidate from Sanhewal, sitting there. They wanted to appoint Shergill as the convener of Punjab and later as Punjab chief minister.”
 
 “Shergill made me talk to Kejriwal on his mobile via WhatsApp call. Kejriwal asked me to get the task done and offered a plum post after the formation of the government in Punjab,” he alleged.
 
 “The sting was scheduled for July 29, 2016, and for this the party even cancelled its political affairs committee (PAC) as Chhotepur would have objected to choice of tickets,” he added.
 
 “The exercise, however, turned out to be a damp squib. Chhotepur was clearly seen refusing the money in the video clip. Same day, Bains came to my residence in Mansa and took me to Chandigarh where the AAP leaders saw the video. Since, there was no concrete evidence against Chhotepur, they asked me to do the sting again. On August 2, 2016, I tried at Ludhiana but Chhotepur again refused to accept cash. Surprisingly, based on my first sting that was inconclusive, AAP went on and sacked Chottepur,” Mahal said.
 
 He also alleged that later the party asked Chhotepur to explain his position to Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia but the meeting was also recorded.
 
 Meanwhile, a leader of the Aapna Punjab Party (APP), headed by Chhotepur, said with the revelation, truth had been revealed and Chhotepur had come clean despite the smear campaign against him.
 
 
 
 
 -Claims he could only record audio of Chhotepur in the sting
 
 -When offered Rs 2 lakh, Chhotepur is heard saying “eh gal theek nahin” (This is not right)
 
 -Kejriwal himself asked him to conduct the sting operation
 
 - An iPhone and Rs 2 lakh were arranged by AAP leaders
 
 
