AHMEDABAD: The Asia Africa Growth Corridor (AAGC), a roadmap for opportunities and aspirations in Asia and Africa was launched on Wednesday. The AAGC will give priority to development projects in health and pharmaceutical, agriculture and agro-processing, disaster management and skill enhancement.

 Union minister of state for finance, Arjun Ram Meghwal, said Asia Africa growth corridor will be instrumental in pooling resources for development of Africa and will lead to connecting Asia to Africa and help boost people to people relations between both continents.
 
 The idea of AAGC had emerged in a joint declaration issued by Prime Minister   and his Japanese counterpart,  , in November 2016. The AAGC will envisage people-centric sustainable growth strategy, details of which would be evolved through a process of detailed consultation across Asia and Africa.
 
 The AAGC-led growth in Africa and Asia will be responsive to the collective commitment for the sustainable development goals. The AAGC vision study will use geographical simulation model to bring out economic gains for Africa through its integration with India,  ,  , East Asia and Oceania. 
 
 On the sidelines of the 52nd AfDB Annual Meetings 2017, experts, including government officials from both India and Japan came together to discuss measures to further India-Japan cooperation for the development of Africa.
 
 Meanwhile, the Japan Bank of International Cooperation (JBIC) has decided that it would support and finance projects even if they are taken up in Africa by Indian companies which work in collaboration with Japanese companies. This was announced at a press briefing organized by JBIC, Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
 
 The vision document has been developed based on consultation with Asian and African think-tanks by Research and Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) New Delhi, the Economic Research Institute for ASEAN and East Asia (ERIA) Jakarta and Institute of Developing Economics (IDE-Jetro) Tokyo.
 
