NEW DELHI: ABVP’s loss of key posts in the Delhi University Students’ Union elections on Wednesday has come as a big blow to the BJP. The party and the students group backed by it have lost three elections in the capital, including JNU Students’ Union and Bawana bypolls, in less than a month.   are blaming   in the   for these back-to-back defeats.

 A new team headed by Delhi BJP general secretary Ravinder Gupta was given the responsibility to oversee the   elections by sidelining South Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri and former councillor Ashish Sood, who have been in charge of DUSU elections for the past four years.
 
 BJP members blamed “factional politics” and “over-confidence of state leadership” for the DUSU and Bawana debacles. “We have been winning DUSU elections for so many years. This defeat is due to over-confidence state leadership, its inability to check factional politics,” said a senior member.
 
 When contacted, Delhi BJP in-charge Shyam Jaju refused to comment. “Ask the Delhi unit about it,” he replied.
 
 Sources said that Jaju and organisational secretary Sidhartan have been actively managing the functioning of the party, as Delhi unit chief Manoj Tiwari, who joined the party just before the Lok Sabha elections, is relatively new to the organisational setup.
 
 After taking over as the state unit chief, Tiwari has been facing opposition within the party, especially from senior leaders. Sources say, he has apprised the central party leadership about it.
 
 Speaking about the saffron party’s back-to-back defeats in recent elections, Gupta said that not much should be read into them. “In no ways do they reflect on BJP’s position in the city. Just a few months ago, BJP had won the municipal elections with a very margin. There are several factors which are responsible for the loss. We will analyse the reasons,” said Gupta.
 
 But party members say that little is being done to strengthen the state unit despite central leadership indicating its unhappiness with factional politics. “There is an attempt being made to not involve the senior state leaders and members of the previous teams in any important event or decision making process,” said a senior BJP functionary.
 
 In Bawana polls, a section of the state unit was not happy with the decision to field turncoat Ved Prakash as the party’s candidate. Sources said Tiwari was roped in only during the last leg of the election campaigning. “There are concerns about the way the election campaign was managed. Senior scheduled caste and Poorvanchali leaders were kept away from election campaigning. The election was poorly managed and experienced party leaders were not consulted,” revealed a senior leader.
 
 At the state executive on Wednesday, Tiwari said that the recent election results will be analysed. Northwest Delhi MP Udit Raj, who had been asked to prepare a report on the party’s defeat in Bawana, is yet to submit the report.
 
 
