NIZAMABAD: BJP is keeping its option open on the election strategy for Telangana in the 2019 elections. This was clearly indicated by Union home minister   Singh when he made no reference, forget any criticism, of the ruling TRS or Telangana chief minister K   during his 30-minute speech at the public meeting in TRS backyard Nizamabad to celebrate the liberation of Hyderabad state from Nizam rule 69 years ago.

 This assumes significance as the entire campaign of Telangana BJP during its over two-week campaign was to add pressure on the TRS government to officially celebrate September 17 as Telangana Liberation Day . “In the run-up to the 2014 elections, TRS leader K Chandrasekhar Rao had vowed his party will celebrate Telangana Liberation Day once voted to power.However, KCR changed tack and is silent on the issue,“ was the main refrain of state BJP president K Laxman in his public meetings during last fortnight.
 
 In his speech, the home minister spoke about the liberation day's significance and paid rich tributes to the martyrs of Telangana. He referred to the Razakars and the Nizam and also spoke at length about Prime Minister  's initiatives during the past three years and his vision.
 
 In fact, at the public meeting here on Sunday , state BJP leaders who spoke before Rajnath criticised TRS and KCR, but Rajnath sang a different tune. His silence on TRS appe ars to have upset local party leaders. On condition of anonymity , they said their campaign for the last two weeks has been focused against TRS. “As far as we are concerned, TRS is our main opponent in 2019 elections. And lack of criticism of our main foe is surprising,“ said a leader.
 
 According to BJP sources, the national leadership has decided it will be best to keep its cards close to the chest till elections near. “We will need cooperation of TRS at the national level and Parliament in days to come. Therefore, no need to antagonise anyone at this stage,“ they said. However, the local BJP leadership will be told to continue with its campaign against TRS, party sources said.
 
 On its part, TRS too has been targeting   and TDP, but to a large extent has not been critical of BJP, despite the saffron brigade confronting it on the issue of Telangana liberation day .
 
 Earlier, in his speech, state BJP chief Laxman took on KCR on his proposal to construct the new secretariat at Bison Polo Ground. BJP floor leader G Kishan Reddy demanded suspension of Telangana home minister Nayani Narsimha Reddy for his remarks against Rajnath that his visit was only to promote divisive politics.
 
 Union minister of state for home Hansraj Ahir said the BJP government is demanding the TRS government celebrate Liberation Day officially, not for political gains but keeping in mind the sentiments of Telangana people.Former Union minister and Secunderabad MP Bandaru Dattatreya said many people from Nizamabad (Indur) sacrificed their lives fighting against Razakars.
 
 TRS MP's son joins the saffron party
 
 TRS MP D Srinivas's son and businessman Dharmapuri Arvind joined the   on Sunday in the presence of Union home minister Rajnath Singh at the Sankalp Diwas public meeting organized by the party at Nizamabad. Along with him, industrialist Sadananda Reddy and Congress leader Baswa Laxmi Narsiah also joined the BJP. On the occasion, Rajnath Singh also released a book on the Telangana Liberation Yatra that was taken out by BJP state president K Laxman in the first fortnight of September
 
