 

 There are many beautiful and talented celebrity moms who have made sure that everyone sits up and take a closer look at them especially when they are heavily pregnant. Pregnancy fashion has certainly evolved over the years; and celeb mummies no longer hide behind shapeless garb. They turn heads in long billowing dresses, corsets that hide the baby bump and show off their new gorgeous shapes in the now extremely popular body hugging dresses. These celebrities at home and internationally, are giving a chic twist to   and redefining it in a big way (pun not intended!) Here’s taking a look at why there’s been such a change in this segment of fashion of late...
 
  
  
 
 
 
 One of the major reasons that maternity fashion has undergone a tremendous change is because there’s no stopping a pregnant woman’s busy schedule that includes work travel, leisure travels, catching up with friends doing all this and still looking stylish and feeling at ease suggests designer Pria Kataaria Puri. “Over the last couple of years, fashion has evolved and India is fast becoming a home to many well-known international fashion brands that gives women a variety of options to choose from even when it comes to maternity wear. Also there are no longer taboo on women who even work a little late in their third semester, and what she should wear during pregnancy.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Another reason why most urban women today are embracing fashionable maternity wear is the impact of social media. With several Bollywood and   A-listers sporting chic yet stylish pregnant wear at several occasions; from lunch-eons, red carpet events to even award ceremonies, even non-celeb moms to be want to put their fashionable foot forward. Says fashion blogger  , “Maternity fashion has evolved a lot in the last few decades, thanks to internet and more recently social media. Also Indian women are becoming confident and are open to experimenting with the new looks and style, at various stages of pregnancy. Celebrities like Natalie Portman, Anne Hathway, Chrissy Teigen, Kim Kardhashain and back home  , Shweta Salve, Genelia D’souza Deshmukh have  d maternity fashion a lot.
 
 
 
 While high-end fashion and budget can never go hand-in-hand blending some old staples with some new purchases sure can pep up your look, suggests fashion 
 designer  . The best way to be stylish yet comfortable during your pregnancy is to wear layered clothes and accessorise them per the occasion. Boho and chic are smart ways to dress up during pregnancy. Oversized clothes, from oversized shirts, to t-shirts and tops, paired them with maternity leggings and a jacket and a lovely tote in a solid colour can work wonders. Dresses with ruffles will give you a very flamboyant look.” “Buy classic pieces like jackets and skirts which are free size. Scarf’s play an important role in maternity wear as it can give you a new look instantly, when paired with your other clothes. To bring newness is to add scarf’s handbags accessories stuff like that,”shares Pria.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
