HYDERABAD: A Pakistani man wrote “Death to India“ on the official twitter handle of the Indian Army while the forces remain a mute spectator. “Lekar rahengai Kashmir (We will surely take Kashmir). Burhan Wani is our hero.  ,“ commented   of Larkhana district of Sindh province of Pakistan.

 The comment was made on the twitter handle @adgpi, additional directorate general of public information, IHQ of MoD (Army). The cover page boldly proclaims “Indian Army , an instrument of national power.“
 
 The Pakistani bombarded the twitter handle after the Indian Army put up photographs that 25 children from south Kashmir had been taken on a Sadbhavana tour of Hyderabad on Friday . The children were also taken to Delhi and Udhampur. They returned to Kashmir after a 10-day tour. While the @adgpi, as could be seen, was not even monitoring the tweets, Naeem Ahmed Jatoi was promptly rebuffed by an Indian man, Ravindra Yadav, who commented that Naeem could continue to day-dream.
 
 More attacks followed.One twitter user remarked that children taken on the tour were children of informers and MLAs and pictures were false propaganda. The @adgpi seemed ignorant about what was happening on the official twitter handle.
 
 Efforts by this reporter to get it touch with additional directorate general of public information, IHQ of MoD (Army) proved futile as there was no response to a query .Pakistani actress Mahira Khan who acted with Shah Rukh Khan in the recently released blockbuster, Raees, also came under attack for acting in Indian films. While In dia repulses attacks from across the border, a direct attack on the country's official twitter handle of the army is being ignored. The anti-India remarks of Pakistanis continue to be made and remain on the handle. The focus of the Indian army is now to involve the common Kashmiris in programmes undertaken by the government. When pictures of local Kashmiris were uploaded on the twitter, a Pakistani remarked they looked more like Biharis dressed in Kashmiri attire.
 
 With Additional Directorate General of Public Information, IHQ of MoD (Army) not monitoring reactions and responses to tweets, the twitter account has become a platform for anti-India voices.
 
