VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP State Fibre Grid (APFG), Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s pet project is progressing at a slow pace.

 The   Fibernet Limited (APSFL) has set a target of extending 1 lakh internet, telephone and television connections in the state by August 15 this year, but sources say that only around 30,000 connections have so far been covered by the company in all 13 districts.
 
 “We have to cover nearly 70,000 connections in the next 20 days to reach our target of one lakh before the Independence Day.We will try to extend the maximum number of connections by the deadline,” said an official from the APSFL.
 
 In March last year, the chief minister had officially launched the project in   city. It seeks to gives people in the state television services, internet, and telephone connection at Rs 149. Naidu had assured that the project would be extended to everyone in the state at the earliest.
 
 When TOI inquired about the progress of the project on Monday, official sources revealed that except around 250 connections in   limits, the project is yet to reach the doors of all the people.
 
 “The fibre net connections in Gajuwaka are part of the trial run. We will start taking new applications in the next two weeks. The trial run operations in all the agency, rural and city have borne successful results. We have readied a strong fibre grid network in the state. The only need to finish accepting the applications for new connections,” said another official from the APSFL who requested anonymity.
 
 However, he revealed that the short supply of set-top boxes was one of the reasons for the slow progress of the project. “We used to import the set-top boxes from China, but now two new companies in the state have started manufacturing the them. So there is no problem in getting supplies,” the officer added.
 
 S Uma Shankar, a fibrenet connection subscriber at Poosapatirega in   district, said “I paid Rs 520 as installation charges to a team. I was asked to pay Rs 120 per month. The net speed is good and the TV programmes are also good, particular for the students. It is a good project. I request the government to cover all households across the state at the earliest.”
 
