HYDERABAD: In his death, a 45 year-old Hyderabad man has given a new lease of life to several people in Texas, US. Rajiv Putam, a software professional, died due to brain aneurysm. His wife Bhagya, overcoming her grief, donated all of Rajiv's organs. Apart from wife Bhagya, Rajiv is survived by two children aged 11 years and 15 years.

 Thanks to Rajiv's heart, a 41-year-old man got a gift of life. A 21-year-old man who received Rajiv's lungs, could breathe and another 41-year-old got a new lease of life with liver transplant.
 
 That's not all. One of the kidneys went to a 53-year-old woman who waited for 12 days for her life-saving transplant in  . The other kidney went to a 64-year-old male whose life was saved, also in Houston.
 
 A fund-raiser set up with a target of $2 lakh for Rajiv's family, has received more than $62,000. Indians in the US are donating whatever they can for the family.
 
 Anisha Rajesh, who manages an organisation called   Kalakendra, said in an Facebook post that Rajiv Putam, father of one of her dance students,  , had passed away.
 
 “We have had a close rela tionship with Keerthana's family from the beginning years of Upasana Kalakendra. Rajiv and Bhagya (Keertana's mom) have always offered a helping hand at all our functions and events. Rajiv and Bhagya were part of Upasana family for the past six years,“ she said.
 
 On September 9 morning, Rajiv had dropped Keertana for the dance class at 7 am and went back home. But at 7.40 am, he collapsed. He had to be airlifted to Memorial Hermann hospital downtown. “He had a very serious brain hemorrhage and unfortunately ,a large amount blood in his brain had clotted and doctors could not save him. I salute and admire Bhagya's decision, even in this time of a huge personal loss, to donate all of Rajiv's organs. At this point of time we have come to know that his heart, liver and lungs have already saved the lives of three people,“ Anisha Rajesh said.
 
 “Rajiv being the only earning member, the family will require our support to recover from this tragedy,“ she said and urged people to donate for the family .
 
