TRICHY: Tamil Nadu chief minister   on Tuesday appealed to the villagers of   in   district to call off their protest against the proposed hydrocarbon project in their village. He said that the “Tamil Nadu government will never implement any project inimical to the interest of the farmers in the state.”

 The chief minister was speaking during a government programme held at at   auditorium on Tuesday evening. “As I already said that the state government had not issued licence for petroleum mining lease to commercial production of hydrocarbon in Neduvasal. Meanwhile, the farmers raised serious concerns about their livelihood due to the project. So, the state government will not give permission to the project and people need not be worried about it. Tamil Nadu government will not bring in any project that affects the livelihood of the farmers. Hence, appeal to the representatives of the village to abandon the protest by accepting the assurance of the state government,” said Palaniswamy.
 
 Meanwhile on Tuesday morning, hundreds of villagers, including women and children from   and North Thulukkanviduthi, converged at Neduvasal and Nallandarkollai in Pudukkottai district where the agitation against the proposed hydrocarbon exploration project has been continued for the 20th day. A large number of protestors turned up there expecting the chief minister to visit the spot. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Jayakodi from North Thulukkanviduthi said they would not allow to take even a fistful of their soil. 
 
 “If there is no agriculture activities around our village, people cannot live here. We appeal both the state and the Central governments not to implement the project,” said Amaravathi from Neduvasal. 
 
 Folk artist from Chennai and Villupuram districts performed ‘Thappattam’ at the protest venue in Neduvasal. The villagers took out a rally from Neduvasal which ended near the borewell at Nallandarkollai. This was followed a Thappattam performance by folk artists. 
 
 Latchiya Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader and actor T Rajendar, late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa Jayakumar’s husband Madhavan also met the protesters and expressed their solidarity with them.
 
