SANGLI/MIRAJ: Bureaucracy and political support has a huge bearing on feticide cases unearthed in Sangli district, activists and legal experts said on Wednesday.

 Ironically, a raid was conducted on homeopath Babasaheb Khidrapure’s hospital in May 2016 following an anonymous complaint. However, the health officials gave him a clean chit.
 
 In another incident, a legal advisor who spearheaded a massive inspection drive of all sonography centres in the district in 2014 was sacked by the chief executive officer of the zilla parishad. The sacking allegedly came upon instructions of then district guardian minister  . This intervention not only halted the drive, but also helped absolve some sonography centres of various irregularities, activists said.
 
 Activist  , who had registered the anonymous complaint with the then Sangli district collector against Khidrapure, said, “A team of doctors had raided Khidrapure’s hospital but he was nonetheless given a clean chit. I fail to understand how the committee members did not see that he was running the hospital without registration.”
 
 Wadar said late  , a ZP member, had also raised the issue in vain in the ZP’s standing committee in 2012. 
 
 Advocate Archana Ubale, who was appointed legal adviser for the district-level vigilance committee for effective enforcement of the PCPNDT Act in January 2014, was relieved of her duties abruptly in February 2016. “On February 6, 2016, Sangli ZP’s CEO handed me a note stating that my services have been discontinued following instructions from Patil. This happened only because I had earned displeasure of many doctors in Sangli district following the massive drive initiated against sonography centres. We had inspected 161 sonography centres in 2015 and found irregularities at 15 and filed criminal cases against three. These three centres were from Miraj, Islampur and Sangli. After sacking me, the authorities submitted an affidavit in the court and retracted the cases,” Ubale said. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Patil could not be contacted.
 
