Noida: Though Noida Authority has started the construction of two foot overbridges (FOB) along the 24-km Noida-Greater Noida expressway at Sector 97 and  , respectively, it has failed to coordinate with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is constructing the Noida-Greater Noida Metro corridor, in identifying the locations for the FOBs. 

 A look at one of the two FOBs, which are almost 60%-70% complete, reveals it is located a few metres ahead of the Sector 142   along the under-construction Metro route, with no plans of linking it to the station. 
 
 In October 2016, DMRC had approved seven FOBs on a proposal initiated by then managing director of  . As per the proposal, DMRC was to construct extra-long FOBs and ramps across seven of its 21 stations on the Noida-Greater Noida corridor in order to provide seamless connectivity. Of these, two FOBs in Greater Noida — located at Pari Chowk and   stations along the 29.7 km Metro corridor — are already under construction.
 
 According to Noida Authority officials, the two FOBs under construction on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway will cost Rs 4.15 crore each. However, a look at the FOBs by TOI shows that both are only connecting the two ends of the expressway, not the adjacent   on either side. 
 
 In such a scenario, it will not be easy for pedestrians to use the FOBs. Moreover, the FOB located at Sector 142 could have been better planned by connecting it to the Metro station and providing pedestrians and Metro commuters easy access to the railway. The FOBs should have been designed to provide connectivity to concourse. 
 
 Asked whether the optimal utility of the FOB was taken into consideration with regard to the Metro station and pedestrians, Noida Authority officials said they were looking into it. “We plan to construct more FOBs along the expressway and will coordinate with the DMRC for constructing them so as to use them optimally,” said BK Singh, project engineer in-charge of work circle-7. “We will also link the FOB at Sector 142 to the Metro station,” he added. 
 
 In April 2015, Noida Authority had conducted a survey to determine the locations for FOBs along the expressway. 
 
 The survey was to study the detailed traffic pattern commuting on the stretch, including both vehicular traffic and pedestrians, to determine the suitable locations for the FOBs. 
 
 The aim was to keep pedestrian safety high, besides providing easy accessibility to Metro commuters via the FOBs and skywalks. However, it seems Noida Authority has failed to do its homework and randomly constructed the two FOBs in question, wasting the taxpayers’ money. 
 
 
