MUMBAI: The state government has finalized the KRA (key results area) parameters for all municipal commissioners for the 2017-18 appraisal year. The highest marks, 30%, are reserved for ensuring at least 90% waste segregation and composting, followed by 20% for property and other tax recoveries, 20% for making the municipal corporation financially independent and to increase revenue sources, and 10% each for three other areas, which includes declaring a city open-defecation free (see graphic for all KRA details).

 The parameters or their weightage, issued on Monday , are not applicable on the   yet, for whom the particulars are being worked out by the state's chief secretary . A senior officer said they will more or less be the same as the idea is to align the KRAs for civic chiefs with the Union government's projects, especially the  .
 
 “We have also stressed on three broad parameters: making corporations financially independent, complying with the Centre's flagship projects and redressing public grievances,“ said  , principal secretary, urban development department. An official said it also aligns with the chief minister's aim of a systematic waste disposal and treatment mechanism in all cities of Maharashtra.
 
 Mumbai this year slipped in the Swachh Bharat rankings to the 29th spot from last year's 10th.
 
 Waste disposal in Mumbai has been a long-time concern, as all three garbage dumps in the city are full and waste processing has been started only at one site, Kanjurmarg (where a waste processing unit of 3,000 metric-ton capacity has been installed). The Deonar and Mulund grounds are still being dumped with unsegregated garbage, to already make an almost unsal vageable situation worse.
 
 This is the third year the state government has set KRAs for employees based on completion of projects and meeting other targets. The   links KRAs with promotions and increments.
 
 
 
 If one goes by the KRAs alone, the state seems to have its priorities for civic bodies right. The point is to make bureaucrats accountable so that promotion and career growth are not guaranteed regardless of performance. It is good that the Fadnavis government has linked promotions to the KRAs. Now it must walk the talk.
 
