NEW DELHI: Seeking to support potato growers in Uttar Pradesh, the Centre on Tuesday approved procurement of 1 lakh metric tonne (MT) of   in the state under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) during 2016-17 crop year (July-June). The approval is in tune with the state cabinet's decision to procure potatoes so that the farmers are not forced to sell it at throwaway prices in summer.

 The purchase will be made at Rs 4,870 per MT. The agriculture ministry will provide an additional Rs 1,217.50 per MT for overhead expenses such as transportation charges, mandi tax and godown charges. Purchase centres/areas will be decided by the state government in consultation with the state procurement agency.
 
 The move comes days after the UP government's decision to waive farm loan of small and marginal farmers and speed up wheat procurement drive at minimum support   (MSP) in the state.
 
 "The decision to procure potatoes is expected to provide a big relief to farmers who have, otherwise, to sell their produce at low price due to intervention of middlemen. Absence of cold chain in many parts of the state forces farmers to sell their produce within months of its harvest once temperature rises and this led them to get lower prices", said an official.
 
 Announcing the decision, the agriculture ministry said, "The MIS will be implemented by the state agency. The potatoes will be purchased from the cooperative societies, farmers’ organisations or directly from the farmers to eliminate the possibility of middlemen taking advantage of the scheme. The state government will ensure that the produce is purchased from genuine farmers only".
 
 It is decided that the procured stocks will be disposed of in the open market to ensure maximum realizable price. "If necessary, this can also be sold to processing units within the state. The state agency would also make efforts to export the procured potatoes after processing", said the ministry.
 
 "In order to avoid recycling, the stock would not be sold in the same market/state from where it has been procured during the period of the scheme. However, if the prices are better it can be sold locally", said the official.
 
 The ministry made it clear that barter payments or payments in kind to farmers for procurement will not be allowed. It said, "Payment to farmers as far as possible will be made through non-cash transaction and receipts for sales must be through banking channel only, preferably through demand draft".
 
