AURANGABAD: The original petitioner on whose plea the high court had quashed the civic body’s   on Monday prayed with the   to dismiss the 11   (SLPs) filed by  .

 Govind Navpute argued that the SPLs are not maintainable as another incumbent has taken over as mayor of Aurangabad. 
 
 On a petition filed by Navpute and others, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC had on August 5, 2016 quashed and set aside the AMC’s controversial draft DP, notification for which had been issued on February 4, 2016. 
 
 The HC set aside the draft DP over large-scale deviation from the proposal and scheme within contemplation of the MRTP Act of 1966.
 
 Navpute, who is a farmer from of Chikalthana, and others had approached the HC challenging the DP while seeking direction to the mayor to publish the original DP submitted by the state’s town planning department on October 31, 2015. 
 
 Following the high court verdict in their favour, Navpute and others filed a caveat in the Supreme Court and subsequently appeared during the hearing on the SLPs. Tupe challenged the high court verdict in the Supreme Court.
 
 The SLPs came up for hearing on Monday before the SC bench comprising Justices Madan Lokur and Deepak Gupta, when Navpute’s lawyers Devutta Palodkar and Nakul Sharma raised the issue of mayor’s plea being “non-maintainable”. 
 
 They lawyers also said that since a new mayor has taken over the civic body reins, it is not clear whether he too will toe the former mayor’s line.
 
 Palodkar also drew the attention of the Supreme Court toward the municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria’s affidavit, which was filed in the SC filed on October 17. 
 
 Bakoria has stated: “I have gone through the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court order and other connected petitions. Having accepted the said judgment, I have decided not to challenge the same by way of filing the special leave petition before the Supreme Court.”
 
 Palodkar said that during the course of argument on Monday, the state government again sought four weeks’ time to file its reply on the SLPs, which the court granted.
 
