Hyderabad: Internet Service Provider (ISP) in the wired broadband category,   (Atria Convergence Technologies Pvt Ltd), is planning a massive investment of Rs 1,200 crore over the next two financial years to boost its presence in the country, said the company’s chief executive officer Bala Malladi on Friday here. Apart from internal accruals, the company will be banking on its investors – True North (earlier known as India Value Fund Advisors ) and TA Associates for the requisite funds, he added.

 “This will be mainly towards expansion and creation of network. Ours is a very capital intensive business as for every customer we add, we have to invest upfront to create network infrastructure. We also have to invest in data centres,” he said, adding that company will also focus on value added services, where apart from providing internet connectivity, the company also provides access to content for its subscribers.
 
 Last year, in September, ACT had entered into a strategic partnership with HOOQ, a Singapore-based premium video-on-demand service provider, wherein ACT’s subscribers got access to HOOQ’s content. Similarly, ACT has such partnerships with Yupp TV and Hungama. ACT has a presence in 11 locations in the country and the company is evaluating two to three new locations currently, Malladi said, without disclosing any names. The company has a formidable presence in the South and is now eyeing the north and central part of the country.
 
 The company had clocked revenues of Rs 900 crore last fiscal and is expecting a growth of 30% this fiscal. Interestingly, around 50% of the company’s business comes from Hyderabad alone, where it has over five lakh subscribers. ACT has a total subscriber base of over 11.5 lakh. The company has over 7,000 employees, of which 50% are in Hyderabad. This year, the company plans to add around 1,000-1,500 employees, of which 50% will be added in the city. The company has also provided high speed broadband connectivity to over 220 government schools for free in Hyderabad. This apart, it has over 200 wi-fi hotspots in the city.
 
 
