Surat: A 52-year-old history-sheeter was arrested by Navsari police from Mumbai on Wednesday for making extortion calls demanding Rs 5 crore from two developer brothers, one of whom is a BJP leader. The arrested accused, Akhtar Kasam Ali Merchant, had links in past with Anees Ibrahim, brother of wanted criminal Dawood Ibrahim and was currently in contact with Ravi Pujari Gang, sources in police said. 

 Merchant, a resident of Kingstone Tower of Agarwal Estate in Vasai West of Mumbai, was arrested for allegedly collecting details of the victims and sharing it with Pujari gang. On being produced in court on Wednesday, Merchant was remanded to police custody for six days.
 
 Earlier on February 26, police had arrested Keyur alias Kanji Desai of Jamalpor and Naresh Ahir, of Navagam Adada village in Navsari in connection with the Rs 5 crore extortion case. During interrogation police got information that the duo was in touch with Merchant. Investigation also revealed that Ahir was in touch with Merchant through two other accused. Merchant had asked Ahir to hire one local man in Navsari after which Desai was roped in.
 
 Ahir and Desai provided details of the two developers to Merchant after which the extortion calls were made. Merchant runs a security service but his main source of income was extortion, suspect police. He was arrested in 2002 in Mumbai for involvement in a fake currency racket and in 2010 for purchase of stolen gold. He was also arrested in cheque bounce case as well.
 
 In February, Hormaz Awari lodged a complaint with police after he received calls from Ravi Pujari gang asking him to convince Premchand Lalvani and his brother Shankar to pay Rs 5 crore extortion money. The caller threatened Awari of dire consequences if the money was not paid. Premchand is a BJP councillor in Navsari municipality and a leading developer. Lalwani brothers had received extortion calls in January too in which police had arrested two persons from Navsari.
 
 “It is a big extortion racket and we are working to nab some more persons. Extortion activity has increased in the area and we are working to wipe it out,” said Nirlipt Rai, in-charge superintendent of police, Navsari.
 
 
