LUCKNOW: It’s no mean feat to unseat a ‘dharti putra’. But chief minister   achieved it with the perfect blend of power and popularity, delivering the blow in under 25 minutes, and shedding for good the taint of four-and-a-half CM. The skills he needed, he picked up both from his wrestler father Mulayam Singh Yadav, and along the way, as he built his 17-year-long political career in Uttar Pradesh.

 As the Samajwadi Party feud played itself out in UP, of the many things that made Akhilesh the choice of the people, was the power he wields as head of the government. Ministers and legislators were naturally eager to back him. But in his maiden stint as UP chief minister, Akhilesh has also emerged as immensely popular, perhaps even more so than father Mulayam. If Mulayam’s grassroots connect won him the rural folks’ support, Akhilesh’s connect cuts across rural and urban pockets, resonating, especially, with the young population that thinks beyond the beaten combinations of caste and religion. 
 
 Amit Yadav, a SP worker from Ghazipur, said, “Bhaiyya is forward looking. He is talking about laptops, roads and employment opportunities. These are more important than caste to everyone.” Akhilesh’s popularity does not only stem from his ability to talk about and deliver on developmental promises. Much like Mulayam, the CM is also an accessible politician -- though less than Mulayam -- and a shrewd observer who appears to have anticipated, in the case of the family feud, uncle Shivpal’s growing ambitions and that MSY would drag his feet on giving him what he believed was rightfully his to take. 
 
 If the old guard was worried they would be relegated to the back benches upon Akhilesh’s elevation, he has assuaged those fears too, accommodating, happily, many Mulayam loyalists in his own camp, giving them organisational posts as well as ministerial berths. His choice of Naresh Uttam, a SP veteran as SP state chief, for instance, indicates Akhilesh is not n a hurry to change the old order completely. 
 
 Most importantly, the groundswell of support for Akhilesh comes because he’s even handing out smartphones into the hands of the old-time socialists, gently coaxing them into a generational shift that none but he seems capable of delivering.
 
 
