NOIDA: The BJP’s decision to field Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s son   from   assembly constituency has provoked many ticket hopefuls of the party in Noida as they came out openly against the decision, accusing the party of ignoring local candidates and setting the precedent of dynastic politics by parachuting candidates. 

 Some long-time workers have even threatened to leave the party and contest the elections as Independents.
 
 Sanjay Bali, general secretary,   Noida unit, and a representative of Union minister and Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, openly came out against the decision. Bali on Sunday evening resigned from all party posts and threatened to contest the election as an Independent or on a ticket of another party. 
 
 Bali told TOI that the party’s decision to field Pankaj Singh shows it has ignored the local workers’ sentiments. “Rajnath Singh is Union home minister. His son has been fielded from Noida seat. Now is there any difference between BJP and other parties as far as dynastic politics is concerned?” he asked.
 
 Bali claimed that he has been actively involved in party activities for the past 30 years and always stood firm even in rough weather. He said the move has deeply hurt him and he resigned from the post of general secretary and also as the representative of Mahesh Sharma.
 
 He also urged people not to vote for BJP in the Noida assembly elections. Bali, however, has not resigned from the primary membership of the party. He said that he will oppose Pankaj Singh and contest against him as an Independent candidate.
 
 Noida MLA Vimla Batham was also hoping to get party ticket and had collected nomination papers. The announcement came as a surprise to her too, as the party chose another candidate at the last minute. 
 
 Batham switched off her phone and remained incommunicado.
 
 At least five persons had collected the nomination forms from collectorate on behalf of the BJP. Most of the ticket hopefuls are disappointed and some are exploring alternative options. 
 
 Captain Vikas Gupta, one of the ticket hopefuls, said he will hold a press conference on Monday to announce his next move.
 
 The BJP also faced protest earlier this week when it decided to field Tejpal Nagar instead of senior BJP leader Nawab Singh Nagar from Dadri assembly constituency. However, Nagar told TOI that he is with the party and welcomes the decision to field Pankaj Singh. It will be a tough task for the BJP to unite the party workers as the internal rift seems to widen.
 
 Meanwhile, Pankaj Singh said he will dedicate himself for the development of Noida. He said that he will visit Noida on Monday and meet party workers and the general public.
 
 
