JASWANTNAGAR:   is not stumped by the worried query of a party worker at   Office in  , who says there is buzz he is backing rebel party leaders. "Hum bhi baaghi nahi hai kya? (ain't I a rebel in a way too?)," he chuckles.
 
  The 4-time MLA from Jaswantnagar, a seat he took over from his brother  , Shivpal is fighting as lonely a battle as it can get. From visiting temples and godmen to small houses in the congested lanes of the town in his Audi Q7, while ET trailed him on Monday, Shivpal is out to prove a point and send a message to Akhilesh Yadav - that he can win the seat purely on his own for the Samajwadi Party, and win it big. The cycle flag perched prominently on his SUV, Shivpal will be filing nomination papers on Tuesday.
  
  But on Sunday, he inaugurated a office in Etawah named 'Mulayam Ke Log' run by the sitting Etawah MLA, who has been denied a ticket by Akhilesh, and some other sacked district office-bearers of SP. "These are Netaji's people...I am with them," Shivpal told ET. He avoids the controversial questions but did tell ET that he "will remain with Samajwadi Party and Mulayam" and not take the route of former SP ministers like Ambika Chaudhary and Narad Rai who joined BSP.
  
  "He is cautious in speaking now as all media's eyes are on him. He is not even a star campaigner for the party so he is just camping here in his constituency. He is a zameeni neta. He is meeting thousands of people daily," a key supporter accompanying Shivpal told ET. At the party office, Shivpal advises a handful of workers to be "sober and restrained" while sloganeering when he files his nomination on Tuesday. The implied message is to not raise slogans against Akhilesh Yadav. Shivpal's son   is the only notable functionary helping him in campaign and visited villages along with him on Sunday. Shivpal's family will be by his side when he goes for nomination on Tuesday. Party sources say no rally by Akhilesh is slated for Jaswantnagar though Mulayam Singh Yadav is expected to visit Saifai to support Shivpal. "Netaji's moral support is all that matters for him," a Shivpal aide said.
  
  Shivpal is still addressed as the 'Mantriji' at local functions though he holds no ministerial post now. "He won by a massive margin of over 80000 votes last time. He will win by over a lakh votes this time. He can win even as a independent. Why do you think Akhilesh had to give a ticket to him? No one knows Akhilesh here...In fact people now have sympathy for Shivpal after what happened with him," Nasrul Hasan, a local shopkeeper says. Many people here vouch for Shivpal as affable and with people connect. "Mann, Karm, Swabhav - sab acha hai unka," says an old associate of Shivpal in Saifai, Rampal Yadav. Shivpal without fail meets public for hours in the evening at Saifai at a school named after his late father.
  
  Many here are concerned about the political future of Shivpal and more so of his son Aditya Yadav. Mulayam is now 'sanrakshak' of the party but Shivpal holds no post and is just a primary member now of SP. "Shivpal will win with the biggest margin than any other SP candidate in UP. He will prove his worth to all," a supporter says. All through the day, the smile never left Shivpal's face. 
