NEW DELHI: The Centre has awarded projects worth Rs 1,050 crore to different private companies for setting up sewage treatment infrastructure in Patna in next two to three years. The projects are part of the government's Ganga cleaning programme under its 'Namami Gange' mission. 

 The amount will be spent for setting up two Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), renovation of one existing STP, construction of two pumping stations and laying of new underground sewage network of about 400 kilometers.
 
 The contracts also include the cost of operation and maintenance of STPs and sewage networks for a period of 10 years.
 
 "These projects not only aim to treat the current sewage generation in respective zones of Patna but also take into account the sewage estimates of next one decade, considering the expected rise of population in the city", said the Union water resources ministry in a statement while referring to a survey by the   which put Patna as one of the fastest growing cities in the world in terms of infrastructural development. 
 
 It said, "The progress of the construction will be monitored by the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) to ensure that deadlines are met". 
 
 The contracts to build STP of 60 million litres per day (MLD) capacity and laying of new underground sewage network of 227 kilometers in Saidpur zone of the city have been awarded to UEM India Pvt. Ltd and Jyoti Build Tech Pvt. Ltd at a total cost of Rs 600 crore. 
 
 Three other firms – Larsen & Turbo Ltd, Voltas Ltd and GAA Germany JV - have been awarded separate projects in Beur zone of the city worth over Rs 450 crore to build one STP of 23 MLD, renovate existing STP of 20 MLD and lay down new underground sewage network of about 180 kilometers. 
 
 The scope of work also includes creation of main pumping stations of 83 MLD and 50 MLD capacity in Saidpur and Beur zones, respectively. 
 
 "After time-bound commissioning of these projects, no untreated water will go into the Ganga from these zones saving the holy waters of the river from contamination", said the ministry. 
 
 Patna - spread in an area of more than 100 square kilometer - is sub-divided into six sewerage zones – Digha, Beur, Saidpur, Kankarbagh, Pahari and Karmali Chak. 
 
 "Contract for sewage related projects in Karmali Chak zone are expected to be awarded shortly", said the ministry. 
 
 The Centre had in 2015 approved Rs 20,000 crore for implementing various Ganga cleaning projects in five states -  , Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand,   and   - till 2020. 
 
