NAGPUR: Gone are the days when university administration used to be dominated by the statutory bodies, who were having last say in any decision making process. It was primarily due to more number of elected members compared to nominated ones, as per the provisions of old ‘Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994’.

 The new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’ however granted equal emphasis on the both nominated and elected members, thus ending their monopoly, which had often led to superiority issues that resulted in bitter clashes between the vice chancellors and the statutory members. Out of total 2,576 members on various bodies like Management (MC) and Academic councils (AC) and  , the VC will have to nominate 836.
 
 The new Act has made VC’s position impregnable, as he would have to make a maximum nominations on the various bodies, according to  . “Apart from   (BOS) and   (RRCs), the VC would nominate as many as 92 members on these bodies. It included three on Senate, four on Management and 11 on Academic councils. In BOS, he would be nominating 94 members, which means at least six on each of 18 boards,” Kane told TOI.
 
 The BOS would comprise of 15 members of which three would be elected and five would be co-opted by the VC’s nominees and elected members. It means for BOS, there will be 1,581 members for equal number of subjects, of which VC would nominate 558. Similarly, each RRC would have five members of which two would be nominated by the VC which means for 93 subjects, he will nominate 186 members.
 
 “Those nominated by the VC would obviously take VC’s consent before co-opting other members, which means he would wield more power,” he said.
 
 Kane added that even in MC, the VC would have dominance as he would be nominating chancellor’s nominee with latter’s consent apart from four direct nominations. “Among its 24 members, the VC would nominate two deans for two and half years along with one head or director from university departments and one eminent expert from the organization of national repute. Moreover, it would have secretary for higher education or his/her nominee, and directors of higher and technical education or their nominees. The registrar would be member secretary while pro-VC would also be its members.”
 
 Two principals and teachers each along with one member of management representatives would be elected from the Senate on MC, which would be principal executive and policymaking body. “The students’ council president would be its 24th member along with finance and accounts officer (FAO) and Board of Examinations and Evaluation director, but have no rights to vote.” 
 
 Kane however added that with VC nominating most of the members on various bodies, there would hardly be any opposition to his decisions, like what used to happen in past. “At the most, the elected members could register their protest against any move they think is wrong, but they can’t defeat the entire proposal. The nominated members would obviously support the VC. The decision to make VC powerful was taken by the committee members after they themselves faced bitter experiences during their tenures as VC. Another objective is to root out dirty politics from the academics, which earlier proved to be the bane for its development, and ultimately led to the sufferings of students.”
 
