CHARMINAR: Investigations into the controversial Alair encounter have reached its final stage after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday visited the encounter site and re-constructed the scene. 

 The team headed by   who is also the commissioner of police (Cyberabad) visited the site and recorded statements of squad members, who took part in the encounter of   and his associates. It has been almost two years since five undertrials were killed in an alleged encounter in Alair at Nalgonda district. SIT that was constituted to probe the incident is yet to submit its report to the government. 
 
 Viqar Ahmed, a former DJS activist and the leader of home grown militant organization Tehreek-Ghalba-E-Islam (TGI) was killed along with his associates Syed Amjad Ali, Mohammed Zakir, Mohammed Haneef, Izhar Khan by a police escort party, while they were being shifted to Hyderabad metropolitan courts from   central prison on April 7, 2015.
 
 Viqar and his associates were facing trial for murdering police constable U Ramesh, who was allegedly killed for avenging the police firing on unarmed devotees on the day of   blast on May, 18, 2007.
 
 The government on April 13, 2015 constituted a six-member team to investigate the encounter. 
 
 A government order appointed IPS officer Sandeep Shandilya, a former city additional commissioner of police (crime) as its head. 
 
 The SIT had earlier grilled 17 cops who carried out the encounter. The mini bus that was used to escort undertrials was also seized. 
 
 A year ago, SIT had also visited the crime scene at Alair and seized the weapons used in the encounter. 
 
 According to the sources, reports of ballistic experts from state forensic laboratories has also been received by the SIT. " SIT visited the scene and reconstructed the scene. The squad members of the escort police party were also examined. A report is also being prepared in this regard" said Sandeep Shandilya.
 
 However many political parties and several Muslim organizations have rejected the formation of SIT and demanded enquiry by the   or a judicial enquiry by the sitting high court judge. 
 
