  : The promotions and   of all municipal corporations across the state will now depend on six   (KRAs) according to a state decision on Monday. 

 The state has fixed 100 points to assess the performance of the municipal commissioners. The highest weightage of 30 has been allotted to performance in the sector of solid waste management in the city.
 
 All civic bodies have also been directed to implement the  , a project on the lines of the Centre's Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. It has been made mandatory for civic chiefs to ensure that at least 90% of the waste is segregated at the source point before transportation and disposal.
 
 A senior official from the   (UDD) said, "The highest weightage is allotted to the municipal commissioner's performance in sanitation. An additional 10 points will be awarded if the city is declared Open Defacation Free (ODF) before October 2 this year."
 
 The UDD official added that the points for solid waste management will depend on door-to-door garbage collection and setting up a composting plant for wet waste before March 31 next year. "Performance in all six areas will be considered to prepare the annual confidential report (ACR) of the officers for 2017-18," the official said.
 
 The state has decided to lay more emphasis on improving the financial status of the civic bodies. Apart from this, 20 points will be appointed each for tax collection and undertaking special effort to increase the revenues of civic bodies.
 
 It has also been made mandatory for civic chiefs to achieve at least 90% of the set annual revenue target from the taxes. They have also to undertake measures to increase revenue through property tax and estate tax.
 
 "The government has introduced the Guarantee to Services Act which mandates that the authorities address public concerns within the specific days after the complaints have been reported. Ten points have been set aside in the performance review for effective implementation of the Act," the notification reads.
 
 
