Indoreans are looking forward to a weekend of indulgence this  . As with any other Indian festival, an assortment of mouth-watering delicacies is lined up for Sankranti too. Sesame (or til) is the   of the season and is consumed a lot during this time. A number of savouries with   are being prepared in many a household these days. We take a look at what sweet shops in the city have to offer.

 
 
 
 This is a   that is relished during winter. Santosh Dwivedi, who runs a traditional sweets shop in the city shares, “Gajak is made with sesame seeds and condensed milk. There are different varieties like dry fruit Gajak, Mawa Roll Gajak, Gud Rewari Gajak and the Jaipur Gajak that is is softer than the others. It is priced between `360 and `400 per kg.” Another popular Gajak that is trending this Sankranti is the Gajak Samosa, available at Agrawal Sweets, 56 Dukaan. It is priced at `400 a kg.
 
 
 
 
 Giving the regular barfi an edge, sweets shops in the city have come up with fancy options. Madhuram Sweets is specialising in the til chocolate barfi, til strawberry barfi and til malai barfi this year. The til chocolate barfi is priced at `400 per kg while the latter cost `350 a kg. 
 Madhuram Sweets also has toote til ki barfi for the 
 elderly looking for a softer variant. 
 
 
 
 
 Laddoos are the most sought after sweets regardless of occasion. But Apna Sweets has come up with new variants for the festival. Their energy laddoo is a preparation of kaali urad daal and different dry fruits. It is priced at `480 per kg. Other popular varieties are the churma gaund ka laddoo, the badam chocolate laddoo and moong dal laddoo.
 
 
 
 
 
 While you’re feasting, also try these popular winter sweets that are still available in stores:
 
 
  A hard, candy like sweet made of sesame and coated with jaggery. It is eaten during the time of Makar Sankranti and Lohri. Available in packets of `50 and `100.
 
 
  Also known as jiggery roti, this is a Maharashtrian delicacy of flat bread stuffed with a mix of jaggery, sesame and gram flour, that’s roasted in ghee. For `380 per kg at Gangor Sweets.
 
 
 This famous seasonal sweet features vermicelli dipped in sugar syrup. It is available at many sweets shops and is priced between `340 and `400 per kg.
