

 A combined effort of artists  , Rajvardhan Kadam, Kedar Namdas and Monish Naik, the   (PMC) and the   Foundation (PBF), this   chronicles the evolution of Pune through its various aspects and nuances. 'The mural is nostalgic yet connected to contemporary times. It tells the story of Punawadi's evolutions to today's Pune in a very unique way,' informs Harshvardhan. The youngster, a professional artist, has been involved in beautifying the city's walls for quite a while now. A walk through the Kasba Peth area is enough to leave you in awe of his work. But the Yerawada mural is Harshvardhan's biggest till date.
  
  
 'This is my biggest narrative experiment till date. I have put to use a lot of comic book aspects to chronicle the 2000-year transformation of Pune,' says Harshvardhan. True to its name, Song of the City represents the multilingual and multicultural personality of the city and, according to the artists, every time someone walks by the artwork, they are bound to find something new in it.
 
 According to Harshvardhan, who calls it an 'artistic-poetic' expression, the mural creates a timeline and historically narrates the events that shaped Pune. Taking the river as a central theme, Song of the City effectively flows from one edge of the wall to the other, chronicling the evolution of the city. 'The Yerawada Jail wall is a huge canvas, and I had been thinking about doing an artwork here since the last four years. We needed a narrative that flowed from one side to the other, hence took the river as a central aspect of the mural,' adds Harshvardhan.
 
  
  
 Street art has caught up big time in the city and there's hardly any area that doesn't boast of artistically-painted walls. Going ahead, the city stands to get a larger makeover with multiple street art projects in the pipeline. Kiran Shinde, founder-director of Pune Biennale, seconds the sentiment, saying, 'This mural is a part of the larger 'Pune Speaking Walls' project which we are undertaking. While we generally rope in specific communities to paint the walls, the Yerawada wall needed professional artists owing to its sheer size. The artwork uses cultural markers to depict the city's evolution and contributes to improving the visual aesthetics of the area too.'
  
  
 
