CHENNAI: After 29 years, the Tamil Nadu assembly will go through the motion of a   on Saturday to decide the fate of the V K   faction's AIADMK government headed by  . The session starts at 11.00 am on Saturday .

 Going by the numbers presented to governor C Vidyasagar Rao, as of now, Palaniswami is beyond the magic figure of 117 in the 233-member House (Jayalalithaa's RK Nagar seat is vacant). Palaniswami claims the support of 124 MLAs, but a shift of eight MLAs can unseat him in a fully packed House.
 
 OPS, who made a last minute appeal to AIADMK MLAs to “listen to their conscience,“ may have to work harder if DMK head M Karunanidhi stays away--a strong likelihood as party spokesman T K S Elangovan has indicated.
 
 In all, 108 members, includ ing 11 AIADMK rebels and 98 opposition MLAs comprising the DMK, the Congress and the IUML (excluding M Karunanidhi), have vowed to vote against the government. came as a solace for the I OPS camp when Myla pore MLA R Nataraj on Friday announced his decision to vote against the motion. Whether other MLAs would have a change of mind once out of the Koovathur resort remains anybody's guess. To tighten the noose round wayward legislators, AIADMK whip S Rajendran has asked all the party MLAs to vote in favour of the Palaniswami government. Defying the whip may amount to disqualification to nine MLAs on the rebel side. OPS and former minister Mafoi Pandiarajan, having been expelled from the party , will not be bound by the whip.
 
 Much depends on the stand speaker P Dhanapal takes on the nature of voting.Whip has effect only in the case of voice voting. The OPS faction, in a meeting with Dhanapal on Friday , demanded secret ballot, hoping that many MLAs staying at Koovathur would vote against the government in such a scenario.
 
 A senior functionary of the AIADMK said, “Chinnamma (Sasikala), before her incarceration, and later on T T V Dinakaran and Palaniswami have done everything required to keep the flock together. Palaniswami's victory is a foregone conclusion.“
 
 Palaniswami has kept four slots vacant in his cabinet, which now has 31 minis ters, to accommodate some demanding MLAs. His worry is that there are 19 claimants to those berths. About five MLAs can be accommodated as chairmen of various boards. Still, many will be left out, which could continue to give him trouble in the months to come if the margin remains wafer-thin.
 
 Manithaneya Jananayaka Katchi, an ally of the AIADMK that won the Nagapattinam assembly seat on the `two leaves' symbol, decided to support the Palaniswami government as the party wants to avoid another election.
 
 More than the number of MLAs supporting the government, significant is the number of people opposing it. “As per the Constitution, the majority in the assembly need not support the government. The government only needs to ensure that the majority is not against it. So if some members abstain from voting, a government can win the confidence vote without crossing the 50% strength of the assembly ,“ said former secretary general of the Lok Sabha Subhash C Kashyap. The biggest challenge for a minority government is passing money bills.
 
 “Rules are clear that if the government fails to pass the budget, it will have to resign.Problems can arise at times of pushing major policy bills, and going by convention, if the government fails in such bills, it has to step down,“ said Kashyap.
 
