New Delhi: Post-delimitation, political heavyweights are staring at a tough fight in the upcoming civic elections. Unlike assembly polls, the civic battleground is smaller and the voting patterns highly personalised. With boundaries redrawn, candidates will need to connect with a new set of electorate while trying to retain some of the current base. This, obviously, has sitting councillors anxious.

 The fate of BJP functionary and Dev Nagar councillor Yogender Chandolia, for example, lies in the hands of around 15,000 new voters. “Altogether, 12 polling booths from Krishna Nagar and Raigar Pura have been added to my ward,” rued Chandolia.
 
 Similarly, former mayor Ravinder Gupta and BJP’s Virendra Babbar have seen new booths added to Karol Bagh and Paharganj wards, respectively. This is because Model Basti has ceased to exist as a separate ward. It’s going to impact north corporation mayor Sanjeev Nayyar and some others too. “Big distortions have taken place in my ward,” admitted Mukesh Kumar Goel, councillor of Dhir Pur. Congress councillor from Kishan Ganj, Satbir Sharma, has lost three booths (each has around 1,500 voters) to a BJP councillor. At the same time, 3,000 voters whom he has never represented so far have been added to his ward.
 
 The geographical modifications have taken place across south and east corporations, with many wards getting squeezed and others being enlarged. SDMC mayor Shyan Sharma has got 10,000-odd new voters to deal with. New residential areas have been added to  , represented by BJP councillor Shailendra Singh Monty, also the chairman of south corporation’s standing committee. Monty claims he has good rapport with people in SDA, but only time will tell.
 
 Janakpuri West councillor Ashish Sood has lost out on 3,000 voters. “A stretch of residential area from my constituency has been added to Janakpuri North,” said Sood who, however, claimed that his loss would be the party’s gain. “People who wanted to vote for me can obviously vote for BJP,” he explained.
 
