KOLKATA: A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday took private hospitals to task, berating them for over-billing and medical negligence among multiple other charges, the health establishments on Thursday vowed to investigate the allegations. Though most hospitals maintained there was “little to redress”, some hinted measures could be initiated to win back the patients’ confidence and rid people of the “misperception that bills are inflated”. 

 At the meeting on Wednesday, Mamata accused hospitals of over-billing, unnecessary ICU admissions, holding back patients’ records, unjustified use of ventilation and refusing to release bodies till bills were cleared. She announced a screening body,  , will be formed to keep a tab on private hospitals.   (AHEI) members, who plan to meet a fortnight later, said the commission would act as a “third umpire” and help   grievances.
 
 “While we don’t believe every hospital indulges in malpractice, there is scope for improvement. The chief minister’s observations will nudge all of us to review our functioning and plug the loopholes. Here, we need to distinguish between the areas where changes are necessary and the perceived notion of the public which may not always be correct. But every complaint has to be looked into,” said P L Mehta, AHEI president.
 
 The hospitals also seem concerned about the regulatory body and its working. “While such a body is likely to make our job easier, it remains to be seen if it actually redresses patients’ grievances regularly. If it doesn’t, we are probably heading for a situation in which every medical decision, bill and diagnostic test may be questioned. Healthcare is one of the few sectors, which are doing well in Kolkata. But if this is the way we are going to be treated, new investment will dry up,” said the top official of a   who attended the CM’s meeting.
 
 Belle Vue Clinic, pulled up by Mamata for “declining services”, was getting ready to address “all aspects questioned”. “We have 99% of the things, which she mentioned. So, there’s not much that can be done. Collectively, we could do something to win the patients’ confidence. We are waiting for the AHEI meeting,” said P Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue. Medica Hospitals, stung by the CM’s kidney-racket charge, went into a shell. While chairman Alok Roy maintained the hospital didn’t run such a racket, he claimed Medica was ready to come out clean on all the issues. “We are reviewing bills, admissions and tests. But complaints have been rare,” claimed Roy.
 
 AMRI Hospital, too, claimed their rates and admissions, questioned by Mamata, were fair. “We never refuse admission and our rates are reasonable. But an independent body can vet bills,” said CEO Rupak Barua. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital declined to comment.
 
 But members of the Rs 2,500-crore healthcare industry seemed to brace for a lull in business. Even as they hailed the regulatory panel, they feared the CM’s remarks could open the floodgates of dubious complaints and unreasonable damages. 
 
 
