BHUBANESWAR: In a boost to its star power ahead of the rural polls, popular cine star Uttam Mohanty joined BJD in presence of party president and   at the latter's residence on Friday.

 The erstwhile superstar of the   has more than 100   to his credit. Uttam from Baripada in Mayurbhanj district has a great fan following in coastal and southern Odisha.
 
 "I have been motivated by the development works initiated by the Naveen Patnaik government since past 16 years. I would work as a disciplined soldier in BJD and ensure development of Mayurbhanj district," Uttam told reporters in his reaction.
 
 Recalling his acquaintance with former chief minister Biju Patnaik, who founded Utkal Congress in 1969, Mohanty said he was the general secretary of the student wing of Utkal Congress. "Biju Babu had offered me ticket twice to contest assembly polls but I declined," he said.
 
 The 61-year old leader was under fire in June, 2016 for his alleged links with chit fund promoter (Oscar Group)-cum-film producer Prabhas Rout. He was dragged into controversy after videos, in which he openly praised Oscar Group during a promotional campaign, went viral in local television channels. 
 
 Uttam's move to join BJD raised many eyebrows as his wife Aparajita, also a lead actor in Odia film industry, unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha election on a Congress ticket from Cuttack.
 
 "Even when my wife contested on a Congress ticket in last general polls, I had campaigned for  . Before formally joining BJD, I also consulted her about the move," he added.
 
 Asked whether he has any ambition to contest elections, the veteran actor said if the party supremo would ask for it, he would consider.
 
 Asit Pati, another well-known Odia actor, also joined the ruling dispensation on the occasion.
 
 According to BJD insiders, both Uttam and Asit would campaign for BJD candidates in the upcoming panchayat polls scheduled from 13 to 21 February. 
 
 The ruling dispensation has, earlier, fielded a number of film stars including MP Siddhanta Mohapatra, Rajya Sabha member Anubhav Mohanty, MLA Akash Dasnayak, former minister Prasanta Nanda---in the electoral battle and tested victory.
 
 Reacting on joining of the two senior film stars, BJD president Naveen Patnaik said their joining would help in strengthening the party.
 
