AMRITSAR: The Congress on Friday evening announced its Amritsar district (rural) unit chief   Aujla as its candidate for the Lok Sabha byelection. Aujla, 44, has served the party in various capacities, including the secretary of   (PPCC).

 A confidant of   chief Captain   and also close to senior party leader O P Soni, who is assembly candidate from Amitsar Central constituency, Aujla has worked in various states during elections since 1997 onwards. He is a known face in rural areas of Amritsar since he had worked for the rehabilitation of farmers displaced during terrorism.
 
 He has been elected as a councillor of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation. According to Congress poll strategists, they were concentrating on extensively ‘exploiting’ issues of demonetization, Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal and incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib to corner the BJP nominee Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.
 
 Aujla had extensively campaigned for Amarinder during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections which had also given him recognition in all the assembly segments falling under Amritsar parliamentary constituency.
 
 BJP candidate kicks off campaign
 
 Attari: BJP candidate for   byelection Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina kicked off his poll campaign with the agenda of “development and availability”. While addressing a gathering in Attari on Friday, he said he would carry forward the works undertaken by the SAD-BJP government in Punjab and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Playing the ‘local’ card, he said he was one of the people of the Holy City and would be available to his voters round the clock.
 
 “I will not fly away to Mumbai like Navjot Singh Sidhu or to Patiala like Captain Amrinder Singh. I am from amongst the masses and I will be available to you for listening to your grievances round the clock,” he said. At the same time he blamed both the former MPs for allegedly ignoring the people of Amritsar for not being available to them.
 
 During his various election meetings in Majitha and Attari assembly constituencies, Chhina also promised to the voters to bring 100% central grants for the development of border and urban areas.
 
