Agra/Firozabad: A day after six people were killed in two car accidents on Agra-Lucknow expressway near Kannauj, one person was killed and four, including two minors, were gravely injured in Kannauj district on Sunday.   The accident took place at around 3:30 pm on Sunday near Sikrauti village under Tirwa police jurisdiction.    According to police, Krishna Nand Diwvedi, a public bank manager, his wife, their two children, aged 5 years and six years, and brother-in-law were heading for Gurugram from Pratapgarh in their WagonR when they met with the accident.    Giving details, Mahendra Singh, sub-inspector of Tirwa police, said, “Diwvedi’s car’s rear tyre burst and resulted in the accident. The impact of the tyre burst was such that the front tyre got separated from the axel, disbalancing the vehicle. The WagonR turned turtle and rammed into a divider. While, Diwvedi’s brother-in-law was killed on the spot, the others, including the children, were seriously injured.”    Police took the victims to Tirwa Government Medical College, while the deceased’s body was sent for post-mortem.    Since the victims were unconscious at the time of reporting, police failed to get the name of the deceased man.    On Saturday night, in three different road accidents, three persons were killed and four were injured . The first accident took place near Rupaspur village under of Makhanpur police jurisdiction, and the other two took place near Raja Ka Tal and Tundla overbridge on the National Highway- 2.    All the victims were killed when speeding trucks rammed either their motorcycle or auto-rickshaw on the highway. The deceased were identified as 35-year-old Shoaib resident of Habibganj under Ramgarh police jurisdiction in Firozabad district, Sonu (22) of Jafargadi of Tundla, also in Firozabad. The third person who died was identified as Sikandar (29) of Bodla, Jagdispura police jurisdiction in Agra district.    The four injured relatives of the deceased were admitted to the government hospital of Firozabad.