NEW DELHI: The NIA has summoned Sheikh Abdul Rashid alias Engineer Rashid, an Independent MLA in Jammu & Kashmir, on October 3 for questioning in the terror-funding case. Rashid, who represents the Langate constituency, is the first mainstream politician to figure in the case that has so far seen the arrest of 10 Hurriyat-linked suspects.

 According to NIA sources, Rashid, known for making controversial statements on the floor of the assembly, including in support of a plebiscite and sympathising with Hizbul Mujahideen and Zakir Musa (of Ansar Gazawatul-Hind, al-Qaida’s Kashmir cell), came under the scanner during the agency’s probe into the links of Kashmiri businessman Zahoor Ahmad Watali, one of the 10 people arrested in the case.
 
 Watali is believed to be the chief financier of Rashid’s political and electoral activities.
 
 In fact, during the last J&K elections, Watali had not only funded Rashid’s political campaign, but also those of four to five other candidates fielded by him. However, no one other than Rashid could win.
 
 “Watali has been providing funds to support Rashid’s political career. We suspect that these funds may have come from sources in Pakistan. Rashid is known for his pro-Pakistan views, and we believe Pakistan-based elements may be routing terror funds to him through Watali to articulate such views,” a senior NIA officer told TOI.
 
 The NIA has reportedly got a trail of some terror funds handed over by Watali to Rashid, and now wants to interrogate the latter on the same. Rashid has denied any involvement in the case.
 
 The J&K terror-funding case was registered by the NIA on May 30 against separatists who have allegedly been conniving with active militants of proscribed terrorist organisations Hizbul Mujahideen, Dukhtaran-e-Millat, Lashkare-Taiba and other outfits and gangs, officials said.
 
 The case pertains to the raising, receipt and collection of funds through various illegal means, including hawala, to fund separatist and terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir, and cause disruption in the Valley through stone-pelting targeted at the security forces, burning of schools, and inflicting damage on public property, according to the NIA’s FIR.
 
 Hafiz Saeed, the 26/11 mastermind and Pakistan-based chief of  , an LeT front, is among the accused named in the FIR. Rane’s contention has been that   president Sonia Gandhi and her political adviser Ahmed Patel denied him the CM’s post during Congress rule.
 
