 admits he had kept his marriage under wraps for almost a year.   Taurani who made his debut as an actor with the Prabhudheva-directed love story, ' ', in 2013, has been missing in action since his last film, 'Loveshhudha', which released on February 19, 2016. 

  
  
 When Mirror caught up with the 28-year-old actor, he was coot chie-cooing with his wife, Krsna. The couple are all set to ring in their first wedding anniversary on February 11. "Krsna and I were childhood friends and schoolmates. We started dating in our teens and in 2007, realised this was serious and for keeps," reveals Girish, admitting that he had kept the fact that he was married under wraps for almost a year because his career was still in a nascent stage and he didn't want it to be affected by the change in his relationship status.
 
 "Krsna was a little apprehensive but she understood my need to safeguard my film's interests. But now I want share her with the world and declare my love for her officially." They had a traditional Sindhi wedding in Jodhpur and honeymooned in Europe, travelling through Scotland, London, Ibiza, Barcelona, Nice and Paris.
 
 "I wore a 14 kg lehenga designed by   for my wedding and Girish couldn't take his eyes off me. He even made the pandit wait in the mandap so I could drink some coffee since I'd been busy with rituals all day and not found the time to eat anything. These little things are so romantic," she gushes.
 
 She further revealed that she had been working on her laptop when Girish suddenly he went down on his knee and put a huge ring on her finger. "He hadn't even showered and proposed to me in a nightsuit." Girish is quick to add that at least it wasn't typical.
 
 So, what's the status quo on his career? Girish insists that his only focus at the moment is acting. "Currently, I'm helping dad (producer Kumar Taurani) with some music for his films but acting remains my only love. I'm fortunate I come from a well-to-do-family and don't have to worry about my bread and butter. I'm looking for a good script to make my comeback to the screen," Girish signs off.
 
  
  
  
  
