KOLKATA: Going against the current, a right-wing Hindu non-political organisation has welcomed Valentine's Day - a 'Western concept' - to combat  . The organisation wants Hindu boys to get pally with girls to stop them from falling in love with Muslims. The idea is part of a mega campaign to drive out "pro-Pakistan" Muslims from the country. Call it a Trump shadow on Bengal, this is what   of Hindu Samhati said at a gathering at Rani Rashmani Road on Tuesday afternoon. 

 "What will the Hindu girls do if Hindu boys don't mix with them? I would instead urge you to fall in love with girls - both Hindu and non-Hindu. If you don't do this under family pressure, the girls will get pally with Muslims," said Ghosh amid cheers from youths wearing saffron head bands. But for Hindu girls there was a caveat. "Don't get misled by nicknames like Paltu or Bapi. A Sajjad or Hosen Ali may be the actual names," a monk on the dais said. 
 
 A big screen by the side of the dais displayed video messages from former bureaucrats - KPS Gill and G D Bakshi who welcomed the organisation while speakers appealed to the Hindus to go on the offensive and keep arms if necessary to save themselves from jihadi Muslims. As many as five rights activists from the US also pledged their support to the Hindu case. Some speakers in monks' robes spoke openly against "peaceful coexistence", "secularism" and also the Constitution, saying that it was a shackle for the Hindus. The most prominent among them was Swami Pradiptananda. "It is our misfortune that we have Gandhiji as the father of the nation. Our national heroes from Ramchandra to Chhatrapati Sivaji picked up arms against evil. Now, a maulana (Imam Barkati) can get away after insulting the PM. How long will you bear this?" the monk said, while the crowd shouted:   leave Bengal.
 
 Three months ago, Muslim clerics had held a gathering at Rani Rashmani Road in defence of the Quran and sharia laws against the abolition of triple talaq. Trinamool MPs Sultan Ahmed, Ahmed Hassan Imran and Idris Ali were on the dais. Hindu Samhati leaders picked up all these incidents to substantiate their "Muslim appeasement" charge. "What happened to the police officers who were attacked by a mob on Red Road during a gathering organised by Siddiqullah Chowdhury? Chowdhury is a minister now. But what is the status of the cases? Are they still alive?" asked Tapan Ghosh pointing to the "helplessness" of police in controlling violence by Muslims at Kaliachak in Malda.
 
 
