BHOPAL: A day after Madhya Pradesh high court vacated the stay on   construction, the civic body is expected to start action to clear, what it deems encroachments on government land, coming in way of smart road. Owners of 115 houses falling in the way have been served notices by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). 

 Eviction of these families was postponed for 15 days last month. The deadline for evicting local residents expired on Tuesday.
 
 Sources said, BMC action to evict and demolish some 115 structures along Ahata Rustam Khan would come around the weekend.
 
 “Stay on construction of the road has been lifted. Earlier, the MPHC had directed to maintain status quo. After hearing the government’s counsel, court directive has given a green signal to start construction of the smart road,” said a   official.
 
 In a statement, owners of Arabian Cottage, who moved the high court challenging civic body’s demolition driver said that the court has confirmed ownership title of the land in their favour. The private property measures 37,350 sq ft. 
 
 HC has directed the BMC and state government to submit before the court a report within a month. It pertains to land acquired for construction of smart road. If the land for road widening is found to be part of the private property, the owners should be compensated. Around 800 people are likely to be displaced for as a result of road widening up to 30 metre wide. The four-lane smart road would be about 2.2 km from Polytechnic Sqaure to Depot Chouraha. The displaced have been allotted temporary stay facility, two kilometre away near  .
 
 The high court decision has come as a setback for local corporator Sabista Zaki and her supporters, who were opposing the demolition drive for smart road. Next hearing in a related case by owners of Arabian Cottage is scheduled for June 27. 
 
 A huge area of private land along Polytechnic Square has been acquired by the BMC for the smart road construction. The land is part of 103 acre land which as per records is government land.
 
 However, in 1997 a court decision had settled title ownership in favour of private owners Khursheed and family. Zaki and others claims that parcel of land besides Arabian Cottage is also private land and government move to acquire it is illegal.
 
