MUMBAI: The Mumbai city collector has informed Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( ), which is seeking a   opposite  , that it is already open for public use. 

 The collector, Ashwini Joshi, in a letter dated April 5, a copy of which is with TOI, stated that the lease agreement for the ground with the state has expired and a decision about its renewal is pending with the government. “Bombay Gymkhana was served a notice on July 16, 2016, for breach of terms and conditions. On August 11, 2016, it replied that the ground was open to the public. This is being brought to your notice,” stated the letter. 
 
 Gymkhana CEO R N Ranjan was not available for comment on Sunday but a gymkhana member said that while there was no barricading around the ground, there was a rope. “When a game is being played on the ground, no one allowed inside, otherwise it is open to all,” said the member. 
 
 Cricket was being played on the ground opposite the gymkhana on Sunday. The letter comes following BMC’s correspondence in the last week of March stating that a large portion of Azad Maidan was handed over to   (MMRC) for Metro-III and therefore the collector should ask the gymkhana to open its ground for public use. The Metro project involves a fully underground line running between Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Andheri) of 33.5 km, with 27 stations. TOI had on March 12 reported how due to Metro work, many pitches on Azad Maidan were in danger of being lost, temporarily at least.
 
 A senior civic official told TOI that they would have to inspect the ground to check if there is any barrier restricting the entry of people. “We may consider putting up a board stating that the ground is open for public use,” said the official.
 
 The civic body and the gymkhana have been engaged in a bitter battle ever since the club last year rejected a controversial proposal to offer life-long membership to senior   (IAS) officers. BMC then tabled a proposal to widen Hazarimal Somani Road outside the gymkhana, which is expected to eat into the club’s tennis court and heritage bungalow. But no movement was seen on this proposal after the civic standing committee passed it in August 2016. In fact, now the roads department has said that the time period of the contract to be given will expire and work on widening will have to be foreclosed in the absence of availability of land.
 
 
