New Delhi:   aren’t enthused by the central government’s proposal to set up a central university for persons with  : rather than being “inclusive”, they say, the move will only promote “exclusion”. 

 Disability rights activists said the government should instead focus on making schools and universities disabled-friendly and inclusive, as envisioned in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which came into effect on April 20 this year.
 
 Dr Satendra Singh, a faculty member of the University College of Medical Science, DU, and a disability rights activists, said: “The minister (Prakash Javadekar) wants to spend (money) on a central university for the disabled, which will further segregate and exclude us from the mainstream.”
 
 He said allocation for the National Initiative on Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Higher Education, a programme funded by the Centre, had remained constant at Rs 2 crore for 2016-17 and 2017-18. “If you really want to spend money, do it for the university here.” 
 
 A few others saw it as a mere “tokenism”.  , director of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People in India and founder of the Disability Rights Group, said: “It’s a big mistake... it is against the idea of inclusion. The need of the hour is to make all our universities and institutions disabled-friendly, especially in view of the new disability Act. The entire gamut of education should be made disabled-friendly. We have been shying away from this.” 
 
 Abidi cited how DU had never been able to fill up its quota of seats for PwDs. 
 
 Other activists said a separate institution for the disabled would be detrimental to the personality development of students. Abha Khetarpal Maurya, counsellor for PwD and president, Cross the Hurdles, said: “A separate university will lead to underdevelopment of the personality of students with disability.” She said it would only keep serving as a reminder to such students that they were different from others. “They will not develop friendship with others. This will also affect their transition from the university level to the employment sector,” she said.
 
 Singh said RTIs for separate data on programmes under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan had proved unsuccessful.
 
 
