MUMBAI: When   began their campaign in  , the think tank hoped that skipper   and West Indian powerhouse Kieron Pollard would be their talismans. After three games, both Rohit and Pollard are still to fire. Yet, MI have got the better of galactico outfits Kolkata Knight Riders and defending champions  .

 A look at run-scoring charts after 10 games will show a non-descript   occupy second place with 129 runs behind Orange Cap holder David Warner (139). Rana has scores of 34 (28 balls vs RPS), a match-winning 29-ball 50 vs KKR and another 36ball 45 vs SRH.
 
 The Delhi left-hander has shown poise which has prompted the MI management to give him more responsibility. It seems a far cry from the domestic season for Delhi which turned pear shaped for him after his 146 in the Ranji Trophy opener against Assam at Vadodara. He didn't score a 50 after that and his lean form continued in the limited overs too. The coaching staff, led by KP Bhaskar and selectors, had to take the tough decision to axe him. It incensed skipper   no end leading to a public fall out with Bhaskar and selectors.
 
 After the game against SRH, Rana, while speaking to the media, credited the environment in the MI dressing room for his form resurgence.
 
 "I interacted with coach Mahela Jayawardane, Sachin Tendulkar and Rohit Sharma," he said and also thanked Gambhir for clearing his mind. So does that mean the environment in Delhi wasn't right? A member of the Delhi coaching staff commented, "Should we get excited about a 50 and 40 when that player is capable of more? We expected a lot from players like him and  . Rana has immense talent, but as coaches, we eye consistency."
 
 Delhi coach Bhaskar, who copped the blame for dropping Rana says, "After scoring 146, we expected him to have a blistering season. In the next 22 games, across formats, he scored only 300 more. We had to look at other youngsters as we wanted to create bench strength."
 
 Rana's own assessment for his poor form is over-analysis. "Run bane nahin to zyaada sochne laga," he stressed.
 
 "That can happen," feels Bhaskar."When you are not scoring runs, you get over anxious and start trying things," he adds and also stresses on the importance of a break. "It helps you rediscover your passion."
 
 Bhaskar though has no doubts that Rana is cut out for bigger things. "I am happy he is doing well. He and Unmukt are India material."
 
 Former coach Vijay Dahiya who picked Rana in 2015 stresses on the need for security in youngsters. "When you pick guys for the future, you need to back them even when they don't meet your expectations. When a performer fails, don't criticise the performer, you can criticise the performance. Youngsters thrive when there is no insecurity." 
 
