GANDHINAGAR: The state BJP’s starting evaluation of likely candidates for the   has opened up a Pandora’s box. Infighting in the party has increased rapidly between   The BJP senses a great deal of   and is facing pressure from ticket hopefuls. Many have threatened to defect to the Congress, become inactive or to help Congress candidates. On many seats where the party has thin margins, the BJP’s biggest challenge will be to control infighting. BJP has started the process of evaluating local sentiments from Sept 20 and will likely complete it on all 182 seats by September 24. However, the party perceives a great deal of opposition to MLAs and ministers on all seats.

 On Friday, during the evaluation process for Amraiwadi, Maninagar, Naroda, Nikol and other seats in Ahmedabad, many party workers raised slogans against the MLAs and objected to observers who had taken favours from sitting MLAs. The BJP faces this situation every year. The number of BJP ticket hopefuls ranges from 5 to 100, so the party faces a problem of plenty.
 
 A senior BJP leader close to the PM who is an observer said,“There are certainly lots of complaints against most MLAs from local workers and the number of ticket seekers are also high. It will be tough for the party to take decisions on each seat. Many party workers have not followed the required discipline. One senior MLA from Vadodara threatened to join the Congress or contest as an independent if not given the ticket. On many seats, senior leaders who lost in 2012 are also claiming tickets. At most places, senior ministers, MLAs and senior workers have opposed granting of tickets to Congress members who recently joined the BJP.” 
 
 Though revolts are possible at many places, the   claims everything is normal.
 
 Bharat Pandya, state BJP spokesman and senior leader in-charge of the evaluation process for Surat district said, “All party workers are making representations before us democratically and are publicly saying that they will accept any candidate who is given a ticket. We are not only meeting party workers but also people from society, NGOs, local business groups etc. The whole process is very scientific and also all those do not get a ticket will work to make the party win the elections.”
 
 
