AURANGABAD: Educational institutions, which have consistently shown highest grade performance in the assessment and accreditation exercise conducted by the   ( ), will be entitled to receive two-year extension of their accreditation grade in the third cycle.

 The NAAC has decided to extend the validity period of accreditation from five years to seven years for the third cycle for those institutions, which have obtained highest grade for two cycles continuously, provided the institution obtains highest grade in the third cycle also, the authorities said. 
 
 The NAAC took the decision in its latest executive meeting and the benefit will be offered immediately. The same provision will be applicable for the subsequent cycle if the institution obtains highest grade.
 
 As per the existing rules, a college is required to apply for re-assessment six months before the expiry of accreditation period. The time for fresh assessment used to be longer and often used to cross the validity period of accreditation, leaving an unexplained gap. NAAC has taken cognizance of this gap, authorities said.
 
 The decision has been welcomed by stakeholders who believe that it would serve as an incentive for colleges to go for NAAC evaluation and maintain standards. A section of stakeholders also said the NAAC should further evolve its decision in the benefit of colleges. 
 
 Nandkumar Nikam, president of the state principals forum, said the NAAC asking for the highest grade performance for extension of two years would lead to certain ambiguity during implementation. 
 
 “Instead of grade, the NAAC should consider the CGPA (cumulative grade point average) score of colleges for offering the benefit. Colleges getting CGPA score in the range of 2.5 to 4 consistently for two cycles should be offered two-year extension of their accreditation grade,” he said.
 
 A principal at a local college said the NAAC directive would encourage colleges to achieve set benchmarks. “By consistently performing well, colleges can save time and energy required for undergoing fresh assessment,” he said. 
 
 As per the UGC rules it is mandatory for higher education institutions to get accredited by an accreditation agency after passing out of two batches or within six years, whichever is earlier. 
 
 Ravi Bharadwaj, legal expert in the education field, said the decision is a good step, and it recognises the maturing educational ecosystem of the country. “It will also encourage educational institutions to maintain high level of consistency in their quality and delivery, which can only be achieved by improvement on the existing processes,” he said.
 
 Bharadwaj also said five years is a long period for assessment of an institution, when the learning, pedagogy and outcome are changing rapidly. Probably the National Institutional Ranking Framework is an answer to the issue but unfortunately it has not received good response yet, he added. 
 
