 is a natural when it comes to making a cool style statement. 

 The young actress will next be seen in an uber cool avatar of a water sports trainer in director Rafi's  , and her social media page brims with some snazzy photographs from the sets in Goa.
 The film's schedule in Goa packed a lot of fun for the team, she says, but it also came with a few shocks as well. Namitha narrates an incident in which she almost drowned, together with her co-star  . 'We were shooting a scene in which I take Fahadh into the sea, on a jet ski. During the training, I was told how to evade waves of different types but I couldn't play smart with this one, which was quite a roller-coaster. Both Fahadh and I fell hard into the water on either sides, and I could sense that the area was quite deep. Funnily enough, the guards who had come with us into the waters thought we are acting, and didn't dive in to save us!'
 
 It's only when an announcement was made from the land that the guards understood that it was an actual fall, says the actress. 'Things didn't go out of hand, thankfully,' says the actress. 'I looked around and saw that Fahadh was also knocked off from the jet ski. We then calmly swam towards the shore.'
 
 The Adi Kapyare Koottamani actress also had her fair share of adventure in the Goan waters, during the shoot! 'Generally, people go into the sea with someone to help them out, especially when they do scuba diving and other water sports. 
 
 I was given training for two to three days when I had to try it all by myself. I know how to swim and love water activities. So, none of it was scary,' she says.
 
 Meanwhile, Namitha has also undergone a complete makeover for her character Shreya in the movie. The actress, who sports a ring-shaped tattoo on the neck for the movie, tells us, 'It represents the transformation of my character Shreya, from one phase to another. The tattoo has five palm prints in a circle, and we finalised it after checking out many designs. I have another tattoo on my right arm, and it's been fun showing them off.'
 She has also chopped off her locks to give the character an urban look, and not all her fans are pleased, if social media reactions are any indication. Namitha, however, says that she herself had suggested the idea. 'I have been wanting to try out a new look for long. When the team asked me how we can stylise the character's appearance, I asked, why not go for a short hair style. I also sport a few extra rings on my ears,' she reveals.
 The actress is also busy with the shoot of her second Telugu film Kathalo Rajakumari, directed by Mahesh Surapaneni, in which   is the male lead. 'My role in it is the exact opposite to the one in Role Models ' an absolute naadan girl who can't speak even a word of English,' she signs off. 
 
 
