Tejaswi Prakash Wayangankar, who played a timid and docile bahu in the show 'Swaragini: Jodein Rishton Ke Sur', has turned into a bold protector of a nine-year-old for her upcoming show, ' '. The actress, who was recently in Noida with child artist Afaan Khan to promote her show, took to the streets of the city to savour some golgappas and aloo tikki burger. While in the city, Tejaswi talked about her love for NCR’s street food, her fascination for the wide roads of Delhi and much more. 

  
  Tejaswi's co-actor in the show, Afaan Khan, at the Noida sector 18 market
 
 
 
 Though Tejasswi follows a strict diet, she couldn’t resist from trying Noida’s street food. She said, "I just love the golgappas that you get in Delhi and Noida, especially those made of suji. In Mumbai, we have panipuri made of wheat and they have hot stuffing called ragda in it. But in Delhi, the vendors use cold masala water which enhances their taste. The street food that you get in Delhi is different from that of Mumbai. For instance, Delhi mein chhole bhature aur momos famous hai Mumbai mein mostly people like vada pao."
 
  
  
 
  While the actress has been to Delhi a number of times, it was the first visit for Afaan to the city. Relishing the street food with his on-screen bodyguard, Afaan said, "The street food here is so spicy. I just love the kick it gave my taste buds."
 
  
 
  Being from Mumbai, Tejasswi finds wide roads of Delhi fascinating. She shared, "I like Delhi because it has such wide roads, which is not the case with Mumbai."
 
  Tejasswi added, "The population of Mumbai has grown tremendously. Koi ek baar Mumbai aa jata hai toh vapas nahi jata hai."
 
  
  Tejasswi gorges on an aloo tikki burger in Noida (BCCL)
 
  She added, "I have come to Delhi many times on family trips and have visited Rashtrapati Bhavan, the Parliament and India Gate. Every time I come here the grandeur of the city leaves me in awe. I feel proud to have Delhi as our national capital."
 
  
 Tejasswi loves travelling and is fond of visiting places of historic importance. Recalling one of her trips to Taj Mahal, she said, "I was in class 7 when I visited Agra. During every summer break, my father would take me for trips, especially to historical monuments. For me, every trip was like a history lesson as my father believed that I should learn about our country’s history along with enjoying the vacation. In Agra, we went to Taj Mahal and Agra Fort. I also have the trademark picture in front of the Taj." 
 
  
 Tejasswi says her journey as an actor started after winning the title of Fresh Face. "My journey as an actor started after I won Mumbai's Fresh Face contest. I don’t think I would have taken up acting if I would not have won the competition. A production house approached me after seeing my pictures at the competition and it all started from there. Now, I have started my career and I really want to make it work. I will give it my best shot," she said.
 
  
  
 
 
 From   Rajput and Kriti Sanon to Kartik Aaryan and R Madhwan,   is brimming with actors who are engineers or have dropped out of the course. Tejasswi, who also holds a degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering, finds it just a coincidence. "I don't think any of the actors who were pursuing engineering planned to get into acting. It's just how opportunities come your way. I was in a grade 'A' engineering college of Mumbai and I did modelling assignments simultaneously. Though many of my friends asked me to drop out of college and concentrate on acting, I wanted to finish college first," she said.
 
  
  The actress enjoys a rickshaw ride with co-actor Afaan (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  --Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
 
