After Bandra Bandstand, Mahim has now kicked up a stink over an air-conditioned toilet that the BMC is building on a pavement in the vicinity.

 Residents of more than   have come together to oppose the   on the   pavement outside  , saying that the roadside stretch had been demarcated for beautification.
 
 Herman Dias, secretary of Zameen ALM (Advanced Locality Management) of G-North ward, under which the area falls, shot off a letter to the BMC on Monday, seeking a change in the site.
 
 However, the civic body, which has roped in an NGO for the project and stopped work after receiving the ALM’s letter, said construction would resume on Tuesday.
 
 Speaking to Mumbai Mirror, Dias said, “Barricades and boards giving relevant details like the nature of work undertaken, permission granted for building the toilet, dates for commencement and conclusion of work, contact details of nodal officers and other information have not been put up at the site that has been dug up for the toilet. According to rules laid down by the municipal authorities themselves, this is mandatory before taking up any kind of trenching and excavation work.”
 
 Further, in its letter, Zameen ALM has noted that it has received inprinciple approval and sanction for “adoption-cum-beautification of the entire stretch of footpath from street pole number SBM-73 through SBMC-93” from the Deputy Municipal Commissioner.
 
 “The whole idea of beautification of the entire stretch of footpath outside India Government ministers’ staff quarters (opposite Mahim station) is for the purpose of having encroachment-free footpath for the exclusive use of pedestrians for their safety and to ease smooth flow of vehicular traffic. Therefore, any move to construct any kind of structure on the very footpath which has been given to Zameen ALM for beautification will prove detrimental to the safety of the pedestrians and the purpose of beautification will be defeated,” the letter said.
 
 The residents’ outfit also pointed out that two toilets already existed at a distance of 100 metres in addition to the one inside the railway station.
 
 Ramakant Biradar, assistant commissioner of G-North, however, claimed that nobody wanted a public toilet or dustbin in their neighbourhood and hence, the complaints.
 
 “The ALM has been handed over a 1.5-km stretch for beautification. The toilet is being constructed under Swachha Bharat Abhiyan and will need only 20 feet of space. Besides, the chosen site is at the dead end of the road. The two existing toilets are more than 100 metres away. Besides, the under-construction urinal is not being built for the residents, but for train commuters leaving the station,” Biradar told Mirror.
 
 He explained that he had asked officials from the solid waste management wing to review the site. “Once I receive a go-ahead from them, work will resume on Tuesday,” Biradar said.
 
