KOCHI: The previous  's ambitious initiative to imbibe the Sikkim model of organic farming has failed miserably due to the lack of leadership support and inaction on the part of the agriculture department. The present minister for agriculture seems to be somewhat passionate about increasing productivity, but his department still remains indifferent without a vision.
 
 Apart from a handful of organic retail outlets in Kerala that procure organic produce directly from farmers and are part of the Participatory Guarantee System(PGS) (a decentralized organic farming certification system approved by the government), most other organic vegetable outlets are guilty of procuring vegetables from the open market and selling it as organic produce.
 
 "It is a huge racket and they not only dupe customers, but even give a bad name to genuine sellers of organic produce," said a senior official of the agriculture department. He found it surprising that many outlets have an unlimited supply of organic produce throughout the year, which itself exposes the nature of the fraudulent business.
 
 “The real question is why is the government not serious enough to constitute a statutory association of organic farmers who can be held accountable?" asked  , founder of Tanal, an NGO that runs an organic bazaar in the state capital.
 
 The state has a total geographical area of 38.86 lakh hectares, of which cultivation happens in 26.24 lakh hectares. But area under organic certification is just 15,162 hectares, which is an abysmal 0.55% of the total gross cropped area. This was revealed by the state economic review report. The data pointed out that pesticides use in paddy fields and vegetables farms were very high, to increase productivity .
 
 The state government had initiated a   (VDP) to augment production after considering its dependence on vegetables from the other states. As a result, the cultivation area increased from 42,477 hectares in 2011-12 to 90,533 hectares in 2014-15, the share contributed by VDP being 36%.
 
 The total production of vegetables increased from 8.25 lakh metric tonnes in 201112 to 13.55 lakh metric tonnes in 201415. The per capita consumption of vegetables here is 160g per day, the annual consumption is 20.78 lakh tonnes.
 
 “The government needs to do two things urgently . They should have a crop calendar, taking into account of the crops that will be sowed in the state so that they are able to distribute and market them properly . The government should also be able to trace the process by which the product has been produced, whether pesticides or chemical fertilizers were being used in the farms," Jayakumar added.
 
