AURANGABAD: Come June, children from Asegaon village in Gangapur taluka of Aurangabad district will get free education in semi-English medium, thanks to an initiative taken by the zilla parishad-run school.

 Banners have been placed across the village — with a population of around 6,000 — informing everyone about the initiative. “Semi-English is perhaps the best medium to receive education and we are excited that zilla parishad-run school in our village has taken a lead to offer it from the upcoming academic year. We hope the initiative would give wings to the dreams of our children,” said  .
 
 Keeping itself abreast of time, the zilla parishad-run school will be conducting classes in semi-English medium from academic year 2017-18.  , principal of the school, said considering the growing response from parents they may have to start two batches for Class I.
 
 “The new initiative will be another feather in the cap of our school. Villagers have a lot of trust in our school due to quality education and best use of modern technology. Offering semi-English medium was a conscious decision considering the welfare of rural children,” she said.
 
 Rajesh Hiwale, teacher at the school, said initiative of English-medium education is going to be a hit in rural areas. “In the era of globalisation, imparting education in English language at an early age can definitely give an edge to students for having a bright future ahead. Parents even from rural areas have been demanding such education and therefore we decided to make it available in our school,” he said.
 
 Though admissions are scheduled to start from second half of June, school authorities have been flooded with queries ever since the publicity campaign has been launched.
 
 Karbhari Jadhav, head of school management committee at  , said cost would be the major factor for rural parents if they want their children to pursue education in semi-English medium from government school.
 
 “Our village has two private schools that offer education in English medium. A major chunk of parents cannot afford the fees charged by these schools. As ZP school education would be free, parents will not hesitate to enrol their children for semi-English medium now,” he said.
 
 Besides free education, ZP schools also offers range of benefits, including free uniform and textbooks and mid-day meal that could attract more number of children.
 
 “Our school is known for quality education in the entire district. The semi-English medium would be a new chapter in the history of our school and would serve as model to emulate for others,” Hiwale said.
 
 While ZP schools at Satara and Shekta located on the outskirts of the city have already started offering education in semi-English medium, Asegaon school has become the first to achieve the feat in rural areas of the district.
 
