SRINAGAR: Prominent separatist leader Syed Ali   suspended   from the basic membership of   conference on Saturday. The development comes a few days after a sting operation surfaced in which Khan purportedly confessed to receiving funds from Pakistan to create unrest in the Kashmir Valley. Khan reacted to the video earlier today, calling it "doctored and fake".

 “Sting operation conducted by a Delhi-based TV channel is fake and doctored. I challenge the TV channel to run my full video instead of bits and pieces”, Khan said at a press conference here earlier today.
 
 Khan alleged that the agenda of Indian media is to “defame the Kashmir struggle and pro-freedom leadership”. “The TV channel has run a doctored video to defame the Kashmir movement and the video was run in bits and pieces and everything was taken out of context,” Hurriyat provincial president Khan said.
 
 Trying to salvage Pakistan and other Hurriyat leaders of the charges of funding Kashmir violence, the top Hurriyat leader Nayeem Khan said Pakistan is a basic party to the Kashmir dispute and it supports the Kashmir movement politically and diplomatically.
 
 However, Khan said, Kashmir struggle is indigenous and survives only on local funding. Khan said, every movement including the quit India movement needed funds to run the show , therefore, it is therefore not new for Kashmir movement to need funds which are generated locally here, Khan added.
 
 Nayeem Khan, Farooq Dar alias Karate and   Javid Baba were shown admitting that Pakistan was funding the Kashmir unrest by pumping money into Kashmir valley through Hurriyat leaders including Syed Ali Shah Geelani and others to keep the pot boiling. Nayeem was even shown in the video saying that even the burning down of schools in 2016 violence was done after receiving funds to continue with the unrest in the valley.
 
 “I appeal to the Press Council of India to intervene in stopping the jingoistic journalism of certain Indian TV channels,” Khan said.
 
 Surprisingly, Nayeem Khan, who heads his party called Jammu Kashmir National Front said that he is answerable only to Hurriyat chairman Syed Ali Geelani, Hurriyat leaders, local people and local media.
 
 The NIA has started preliminary investigations into the revelations made by the Hurriyat leaders in the sting operation and are believed to question all those named in the video by Nayeem, Bitta Karate and Gaza Javid Baba . The trio had admitted the nexus of Geelani with   chief Hafiz Saeed.
 
 “I had decided to put forth my point of view about the doctored videos in front of my chairperson, Geelani sahib and other leaders but I was not allowed by the police to enter Geelani’s house. Hence I decided to talk to the media persons to put forward my viewpoint,” Nayeem told reporters here.
 
 
 
