SHIMLA: After the BJP, now it’s the Congress which has been hit by the release of fake list of candidates for 50 seats on the social media. While the BJP has already lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of the police with regard to the release of the fake list, the Congress is yet to report the matter. Interestingly, the fake list of the Congress shows denial of ticket to senior minister Vidya Stokes from Theog and ticket to  , son of chief minister Virbhadra Singh, from Shimla seat.

 The fake list claims that 50 names of Congress candidates are almost final and an announcement was expected to be made soon. According to this list, Virbhadra would be contesting from Arki assembly seat while   would be contesting in place of Stokes from Theog. This list also shows that speaker B B L Butail has been denied ticket and instead   Butail has been fielded from Palampur seat in his place.
 
 Though senior Congress leader Harsh Mahajan has not contested the last two assembly elections but according to this list, he would be contesting from   assembly seat. Youth Congress leader Yadopati Thakur has been shown as party candidate from Sarkaghat seat.
 
 State Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu said that the Congress had not released any list of candidates so far. He said that the list being circulated in social media was fake as the party had not taken any decision on the candidates. “We will make the announcement shortly,” he added.
 
 Earlier, a fake list had shown the BJP deciding candidates for all 68 seats. Interestingly, this list had shown leader of Opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal contesting from Sujanpur seat while his younger son   from Hamirpur seat. Surprisingly, this list also shows Congress minister G S Bali as candidate from Nagrota Bagwan and independent MLA Kirnesh Jung as BJP candidate from Paonta Sahib.
 
 Seeing this list in circulation, BJP’s IT cell state convener   had lodged a formal complaint with the cyber cell of police in Shimla, seeking action against those involved in this.
 
 
