NEW DELHI: The   is in its 10th year. Yes, it has been that long. It has seen several ups and downs, highs and lows, controversies et al. What has remained consistent is  ' season-after-season of underachievement.

 Such has been the promise and allure of this franchise that every new year, it presents a strong challenge, on paper, and then when it gets real, they fizzle. Frustration is the word that comes to mind. They have always been packed with superstars – Indian and overseas - and they have delivered. Somehow, they haven't been able to jot together one memorable season. Among the original eight   since its inception in 2008, Delhi Daredevils are the only one to have not reached the final. Imagine that.
 
 And if the initial signs are anything to go by, this year too doesn't look much promising either. They are already suffering after being hit by injuries, pull-out and clash with international schedule. Two of their major overseas players – JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock – will miss the season for different reasons. A few will miss the initial stage owing to injury and national commitments and others will leave as the tournament approaches its business end, for national duties.
 
 Still, never say never. What Shane Warne did with Rajasthan Royals in the inaugural season, DD's two guiding lights in   and Rahul Dravid could achieve. But it will need more than just a stroke of luck. Consistency being the foremost but more importantly, the domestic talent, with which the team is brimming with, holding its own in front of the more fancied teams. They are also packed with world-class fast bowlers and will aim to rely on their expertise to fast-track themselves into title challengers. A tough season is in the offing.
 
 
 
 The last time Zaheer bowled in competitive cricket was, well, in   2016. He has long retired from competitive cricket except the IPL. It goes without saying that he lacks serious match practice. Combined that to his age. Zaheer is 38 now and considering he is a fast bowler, maintaining match-fitness for the taxing two-month schedule will be a fight – although few cricketers in the past have defied the notion of old age proving a hurdle in cricket's shortest format. Still, Zaheer is known for his cricketing brain and his rich experience across formats should serve as a tonic for a young DD squad.
 
 
 
 
 In his playing days, Dravid was looked as a figure of consistency, someone who could dig his way out of trouble. Now, he is looked upon as a top mentor, having been associated with Indian junior teams – coaching one to a World Cup final while teaching them the art of thriving in the cutthroat environment of international cricket. There's a bunch of them in the Delhi squad – Rishabh Pant, Sanju Samson, Shreyas Iyer, Murugan Ashwin, Navdeep Saini among others. Dravid's inputs and guidance can work magic for them.
 
 
 : 1 Sam Billings, 2 Rishabh Pant (wk), 3 Shreyas Iyer, 4 Corey Anderson/Angelo Mathews, 5 Karun Nair, 6 Sanju Samson, 7 Chris Morris, 8 Mohammed Shami, 9 Amit Mishra, 10 Zaheer Khan (capt), 11  
 
 Key Players: South African sensation Kagiso Rabada is the most exciting fast bowler currently on offer in international cricket. Delhi shelled out Rs 5 crore for him at the auction in February which is enough to say the faith the team has on his express pace. Rarely are fast bowlers the talking points in T20 cricket in India and Rabada, having made his Test debut here, knows it. Another player to look forward to is wicke-keeper-batsman Rishabh Pant who has had a breakthrough season in 2016 where he scored a triple-century in first-class cricket and became the youngest to debut for India in T20Is. His ability to play big shots and score at a good strike-rate makes him one of the most important players. Corey Anderson will also be eager to shine in the format which he looks most suited to. He can score at a breath-taking speed and has the knack of picking wickets at crucial stages.
 
 
 : 2008 - semis, 2009 - semis, 2010- 5th, 2011- 10th, 2012 – playoffs, 2013 – 9th, 2014- 8th, 2015 – 7th, 2016 - 6th
 
 
 : They began well last season and ultimately lost the steam. In the past, they have presented a formidable challenge on paper at least. But this time, owing to different reasons, they lack the luxury of being even theoretically strong. Duminy and de Kock have been ruled out of the entire season. Angelo Mathews will join them late as he's nursing injuries, Carlos Brathwaite is with the West Indies, Sam Billings will ditch them for his national team later. And if they do go all the way to the playoffs, Rabada and Chris Morris might also leave to join South Africa in England. A sixth or maximum fifth spot finish looks a real possibility.
 
 
 : April 8: vs Royal Challengers Bangalore (Away); April 11: vs Rising Pune Supergiant (Away); April 15: vs Kings XI Punjab (Home); April 17: vs Kolkata Knight Riders (Home); April 19: vs Sunrisers Hyderabad (Home); April 22: vs Mumbai Indians (Away); April 28: vs Kolkata Knight Riders (Away); April 30: vs Kings XI Punjab (Away); May 2: vs Sunrisers Hyderabad (Home); May 4: vs Gujarat Lions (Home); May 6: vs Mumbai Indians (Home); May 10: Gujarat Lions (Away); May 12: Rising Pune Supergiant (Home); May 14: Royal Challengers Bangalore (Home)
 
