PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The state government has rejected Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s ( ) demand to merge seven villages, including Hinjewadi, into municipal limits.

 The state has, however, made its inclination to merge 34 villages into Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits evident.
 
 Officials from PCMC’s town planning department said, “The state government has rejected the proposal stating that   (PMRDA) has been set-up in 2015 and so there is no need to merge these villages into PCMC limits. PMRDA will conduct development in these areas.”
 
 Prakash Thakur, deputy director of the town planning department, stated, “We have received the reply from state urban development department. The municipal commissioner has written to the Pune divisional commissioner to appeal the state government to reconsider the decision.”
 
 PCMC had prepared a proposal to merge 14 villages into municipal limits but eventually focused on seven villages. On September 4, 2013, then municipal commissioner Shrikar Pardeshi had sent a proposal to the city improvement committee for merger of 14 villages, including Alandi, Chimbli, Kuruli, Moi, Nighoje, Dehu and Vitthalnagar located to the north of the municipal limits and Gahunje, Jambe,  , Hinjewadi, Maan, Neere and Sangawade located on the southern side. 
 
 The committee approved the resolution on December 18, 2014 but the general body (GB) kept the proposal pending and passed a resolution on February 10, 2015 approving the merger of only seven villages located on the southern side of the municipal limits. The resolution was sent to the state urban development department for final approval.
 
 The international cricket stadium is located at Gahunje village. The Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park is located in Hinjewadi, Maan and Marunji villages. A large number of housing and commercial complexes are coming up around the IT park.
 
 PCMC may be able to provide civic amenities like clean drinking water supply, firefighting facilities, public transport, roads, drainage, street lights, and so on, in a more expeditious manner rather than PMRDA, which lacks the requisite funds, manpower and machinery.
 
 Manav Kamble, president of  , said, “These villages must be merged into PCMC limits in order to ensure well-planned development. PCMC will be able to provide public and civic amenities more easily and this will benefit local residents.”
 
