CHANDIGARH: Tricity’s lawyers are busy these days searching their degrees in old boxes and bags. They have only a few days to complete the verification process of the Bar   and Haryana to keep their practice.

 The verification campaign is to weed out   lawyers. The scamper is because the council has put the names of 5,793 on the notice boards of Chandigarh,  , and Panchkula district courts, besides the Punjab and Haryana high court. Of these lawyers, 4,207 have submitted all documents, while 1,588 are required to complete the process by mid-August if they want to continue their advocacy.
 
 From the high court, 2,861 lawyers were told to submit their documents or risk being declared non-practising advocates. Still, 1,111 of them are yet to submit all their documents. They are doing all they can to avoid the tag of fake. Even their colleagues in the Chandigarh district courts are praying hard not to be on the dubious list. Of them, 701 have filed all their credentials, while 413 are yet to complete the process.
 
 In Panchkula, just 36 lawyers remain to submit all their documents, while 453 have submitted these for verification already. In the Mohali district courts, only 28 lawyers are required to submit all their documents, while 190 are over with the formality. The Bar Council of India (BCI) chairman had triggered a sensation by giving a statement that almost 45% of the lawyers in India were fake. It prompted the bar councils of different states to launch a verification campaign.
 
 The deadline that the   has set is approaching. The BCI’s Certification and Place of Practise (Vetification) Rules of 2015 require the state bar councils to verify the original certificates of all lawyers, to detect fake degrees. The lawyers must submit their valid degree, licence, record of five cases, and vakalatnama (authorisation to represent) of the cases in which they have appeared in the past one year.
 
 Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana chairman Jaivir   said: “The advocates are required to submit all the documents… or we’ll have to put their names on the list of non-practising lawyers. This is under the Supreme Court directions.” Submitting the documents is just one step of the verification process, after which there is verification from the university concerned as well. Chairman Rawat said: “If we get affirmation from the university, it’s fine, else we’ll consider them fake advocates, cancel their license, and register an FIR (first-information report) against them .”
 
