MUMBAI: An 18-year-old biker’s death, allegedly due to  , in   recently has come as a wake-up call for the   as it has now directed its engineers to pull up their socks and urgently attend to 508 bad (pothole-ridden) patches that emerged during last week’s  .

 Recently, the Watchdog Foundation, an  , said that in case of any pothole-related death in the city during monsoon they will held the civic chief responsible for it and drag him to court. They said the budget for pothole repair has been on the rise every year so tax payers deserve pothole-free roads.
 
 On Saturday, BMC chief engineer (road) Sanjay Darade along with his juniors spent the entire day inspecting repair work at various places in the worst affected roads of the western suburbs. Engineers in all the 24 administrative wards have been directed to visit the roads in their areas to check for bad patches and fix them on priority. They have been even asked to work during the weekend. 
 
 Senior civic officials circulated a message among road engineers referring the Bhiwandi accident where 18-year-old Rahul Ahuja was killed as he lost control of his bike after hitting a pothole on the Mumbai-Nashik highway last Saturday. According to police, he was not wearing a helmet. 
 
 The message circulated among BMC engineers said they will be held responsible in case of any serious incident due to pothole in their areas. They were also cautioned that in case of any serious incident there is a possibility of activists filing a complaint against them in court.
 
 Officials said they have utilised the current dry spell to fix 220 bad patches till Thursday and 288 remained to be filled. They said they were making extra efforts to attend to the remaining patches during the weekend as there was a dry spell.
 
 This year, civic chief Ajoy Mehta has assured Mumbaikars pothole-free roads during the monsoon. In November last year, he instructed all the 24 ward officers to prepare a list of bad road patches that can cause trouble during the monsoon and asked for their resurfacing. BMC has managed to complete most of these works before the monsoon. The civic chief had asked the ward officers to give an undertaking that the roads being resurfaced now for repeated potholes will not develop any crater, like the last year.
 
 
