AMRAVATI: More than 25 persons were injured in cane charge while seven cops were wounded in stone pelting in retaliation as   resorted to cane charge to disperse the agitators during a morcha taken out by Prahar chief and MLA Bachchu Kadu for various demands of the   on Thursday.

 Kadu took out a ‘nangar’ morcha to the divisional commissionerate to demand adequate price to cotton, soyabean, orange and other crops, alleging that the prices had fallen after demonetization.
 
 Though the district administration had refused permission to the morcha last night on the pretext of model code of conduct coming into force with the declaration of polls for   Division Graduates constituency, Kadu did not heed to it and took out the morcha from Gadgebaba temple in Gadge Nagar. Police halted the morcha at the collectorate. 
 
 Women, who were at the front of the morcha, had a scuffle with the cops who broke tear gas shells before throwing water cannons at them. This infuriated the agitators. Sensing their mood, police resorted to lathi-charge in which 27 protesters including some women were injured. 
 
 While police were wielding lathis, some activists started pelting stones on them. PI Anil Kuralkar and cops Rajendra Dalvi, Sanjay Jaisingkar, Ramesh Wankhade, Ambadas Gadling, Shiva Bhongade, Diwakar Dongre sustained injuries during stone pelting. Though the mob dispersed for a while, it reunited at the place of agitation after some time.
 
 Later, MLA Kadu walked to the collector’s office and held talks with collector Kiran Gitte. He told the collector that he was in the know of model code of conduct coming into force but said that they were law abiding people and the morcha was a pre-planned one. 
 
 “We wanted to submit a memorandum but police needlessly resorted to cane charge, which spoiled the atmosphere,” Kadu charged. He told the collector that his activists would stage a sit-in agitation before the collectorate for a couple of days to protest the cane-charge.
 
 Later, addressing the activists, Kadu lashed out at the government for the plight of the poor farmers and announced that a motorcycle morcha would be taken out from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s residence in   to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s native place in Wadnagar, in Gujarat, from April 11 next.
 
