CHENNAI: Filing applications seeking planning permissions for buildings can be done at the click of a button as the government is likely to launch an online single window system for constructions next month.
The portal will facilitate issuing building approvals within 30 days and relieve applicants from the hassle of visiting different government departments to obtain no-objection certificates ( ).
 
 Official sources in the housing and urban development department said the portal was in its final stage of launching.
 
 “It is likely to be launched by mid October as discussions are taking place at the highest levels of the government to speed up the process,“ an official told TOI. “However, the deadline of one month period would commence only after one submits filled applications,“ a source said.
 
 “If more documents are required by the authorities, the applicant can upload them or send it through post later,“ the source added stating that the countdown will start from the day of receiving the necessary documents for scrutiny .
 
 While planning permission for ground plus one floor or stilt plus two floor is provided by the local bodies, any construction above these stipulated norms comes under the purview of   (CMDA) and Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP). The   covers the   comprising the city besides parts of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, while the rest of   comes under the purview of  .
 
 The single window system would help in a big way by reducing the inconvenience of applicants running from pillar to post to various government agencies for NOC.
 
 Now, the new portal, sources said, would ease the process, wherein the software would automatically route the applications to respective departments for NOCs. Thereafter, the concerned departments would send their NOCs to the planning authority .
 
 “The portal has been de signed in such a way that applicants have to mark the departments that they would require NOCs from,“ the official said.
 
 The development regulations noted that NOCs should be obtained from various government departments including traffic police and directorate of fire and rescue services depending upon the location of the project, which needs to be attached at the time of submitting the applications for planning permission.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said applications for CMDA and DTCP would have a uniform portal. However, it was not clear whether planning permissions for industries would be part of this portal is still under discussion, a source said.
 
 A senior government official said the portal will be a single platform for both the industries and building approvals.
 
 “First, the window for industries would be made available and planning authorities would be integrated later,“ the official said.But, another official with the CMDA said the issue was still being discussed and no final decision been taken in this regard.
 
