AHMEDABAD: For years, Harshita Chatly, a   from Ahmedabad, was thin and lean. Aiming to gain a little more weight and become fit, she began with weight training three years ago. Little did the 20-year-old know that she would go on to debut as the woman winner at a statewide  .

  I never had a competition in mind. I began weight training to gain muscle strength and gain weight. But as I began doing it, it was a wonderful feeling. The fitter you are from within, the stronger you feel on the outside,” said Harshita, who takes weight training for an hour a day.
 
 Harshita is part of an emerging trend, in which ordinary women, determined to be fit, have taken on the space largely dominated by men. They confidently head to the weights section in their gym, start with push-ups and squats, exercise on weights and chase the pump; and they follow a strict diet.
 
 Struggle had no ends but determination made way
 
 Bodybuilding wasn’t an easy choice for most women, not because of the hard work it takes but because of a number of myths and notions about the ideal body image of a woman. A common struggle that came along for these women was to push the boundaries of acceptable looks for woman. Everyone lashed out at us to deliberately opt look more masculine
 
 “Negativity came in from everywhere but I had to draw a line. While my parents were very supportive, a lot of friends and acquaintances did raise questions about a woman becoming a muscled bikini model but I was determined to keep negativity at bay,” said Harshita.
 
  For Vadodara-based physiotherapist, Dr Binal Rana, the story was no different. She was disturbed and forced to leave her home and fend for herself, when her family did not support her willingness to pursue bodybuilding. “People often criticize what they don’t understand. My family was misinformed by some acquaintances about my sports and fitness practice. But that didn’t dampen my spirits. I continued yoga and strength training to achieve what I had to,” said Binal.
 
 “I hope my family understand this because my achievements will only bring them pride. This way, I just want to set an example for other women to pursue fitness and bodybuilding,” she added.
 
 Coming out of the cocoon
 
 Participating in a statewide bodybuilding contest brought along a lot of anxiety about personal image. “Wearing a certain costume and representing yourself in terms of your physical fitness wasn’t easy. I was anxious about being on stage and was worried on how I would look but seeing other women participants gave me confidence,” said Jhanvi Mehta, a 19-year-old student from Bhavnagar.
 
 “I hope I remain fit and get to participate in the contest at the national level,” she added.
 
 Bodybuilding has been an arena in sports that is largely dominated by men and women seldom opted for it. However, it was last month when   (GSBBA) introduced a category for women for the first time. Around five women participated in the Mr and Ms Gujarat Bodybuilding competition held in the last week of February in Ahmedabad.
 
 “It is interesting to see women coming forward to showcase their fitness and physique. Considering this, we have now introduced a special category for women bodybuilders to provide them an opportunity and recognize their efforts. Around five women participated in the competition that was recently held,” said MK Sharma, general secretary, GSBBA.
 
