Nagpur is ready to soak in the festive spirit of Punjab today as lakhs of   in the city are celebrating   — the harvest festival —with a lot of enthusiasm. From customary rituals in the morning to savouring langar and enjoying cultural performances, the revellers are in for a grand treat…

 
 
 Baisakhi celebrations are incomplete without a visit to Gurdwara in the morning. General secretary of Gurdwara Singh Sabha committee, Prakash Singh Jabbal, says, “Baisakhi is not only the harvest festival for the farmers in Punjab, it also marks the formation of Khalsa Panth for us. After the shabad kirtan in the early morning, around 5000 people participate in Amrit Paan ceremony, which is a very important ritual for all of us.”
 
 
 After prayers, people savour langar, prepared by the volunteers of the community. Jabbal says, “More than 20,000 people will savour the special Baisakhi feast throughout the day at the Kamptee Road Gurdwara today. To feed so many people, we are using 17 huge sacks of flour, 500 kg daal, 600 kg rice and 20 large woks full of vegetables. We are also serving matar paneer, kulche, chole, doodh jalebi, rajma and tomato chutney. Anyone can come and join us for the langar today and celebrate with us. Also, the youngsters of the   have volunteered to serve this grand feast to people because it promotes the feelings of seva.”
 
 
 On the occasion of Baisakhi, the   Sikh community is organising various cultural programmes. One of the organisers of this cultural medley, Amrit Singh Sindhu, shares, “We are organising the traditional giddha dance today at 11am at Jaripatka community hall, followed by a magnificent performance of gatka — a Sikh martial art technique. These events are important to keep the youngsters connected to our roots and culture.”
 
 
 
 While community meals, rituals and cultural performances add a festive touch to Baisakhi celebrations, they also provide an opportunity for families to spend time together. Educationist Tanpreet Kaur Tuli says, “Since Baisakhi is also the beginning of the new year, all of us celebrate this festival together at home. We are making a delicious Punjabi dinner for our family and friends, wherein I will serve dal makhni, rice, naan, paneer and a lot of vegetables. What makes Baisakhi special for us is that all of us spend quality time together and share laughter. Nothing can beat this joy.”
 
 
