HYDERABAD: August 15, 1947 will always be remembered as a day of celebration in India. The skyline had turned tricolour with the Indian flag fluttering atop homes, offices and at almost every street corner. India was celebrating freedom from 200 years of British rule. But in Hyderabad, the capital of the princely state of the Nizam, it was just like any other day.

 It was Friday and weekly holiday for   as also for other educational institutions and government offices in Hyderabad. Moreover, it was Juma-tul-Vida, the last Friday of the Muslim month of Ramzan (August 14-15 was the night of vigil or   the 27th night of the  ). Id-ul-Fitr fell on August 18. There was nothing unusual on the campus except for a few students in the university hostels quietly discussing Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru hoisting the national flag on the Red Fort in Delhi. There were only hush-hush debates even after the university reopened. Old timers recall that there were no loud cheers. Even students and professors who were in favour of Hyderabad merging with the Indian union preferred to remain tight-lipped. The Nizam had not made up his mind on exercising any of the three options the British rulers had put before him while leaving India ­ join India, join Pakistan or remain independent.
 
 Neither students nor the faculty dared to invite the wrath of the ruler, Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan, who had issued a royal order (Firman-e-Mubarak) a couple of weeks before India became independent. The firman, published in gazette extraordinary on July 30, 1947, sought to silence all political activity on and off campus. “It is the business of the ruler or of his government to weigh these questions and to take such action in regard to any of them as may be called for,“ the firman read, with a veiled warning against talking about the three options before the Nizam.
 
 Eminent scientist Dr MK Hasnuddin Siddiqui, whose discovery of attapulgite clay in   and other parts of India revolutionised edible oil and petroleum industry , was a student of Osmania University when India became free. Recalling his campus days in 1947, Dr Siddiqui, who holds four degrees including a doctorate from Osmania, recalls that there was no political activity in the university . “It was silence every where. There were no discussions, no cele brations,“ Dr Siddi qui, now 86, told TOI.
 
 A perusal of historical records and newspaper ar chives reveal that  , who led the Razakar (volunteers) movement, hoisted the Asafia at Moazzam Jahi market on August 15, 1947 to celebrate the “freedom“ from the British rule. But the Asaf Jah rulers were never independent, they were subordinates of the Moghuls and the British.
 
