LUCKNOW: Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation ( ) is expected to begin   on the last station of Lucknow Metro’s 23-km North-South corridor— Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport Metro Station—in October this year. According to the Rs 270-crore contract the agency signed with Delhi-based firm Sam India last week, the underground station of about 7500 square metre area is to be built within 30 months. 

 Currently, LMRC is waiting for Airports Authority of India’s permission to begin work. AAI gave its nod for building the station 100 metres away from the airport premises two months ago, fixing certain amounts to be paid by LMRC for permanent and temporary lands it acquires from AAI. An official privy to the development said, “AAI had sent us a letter two months ago mentioning rates of the land we would take to build the station. We have given consent to all conditions and have been following up with them for their final go-ahead.”
 
 The airport   will have two-storeys—concourse and platform level, and two entrances—one leading to the international terminal (T1) and the other to domestic terminal (T3). At both entrances, passengers would have to go upstairs to reach the concourse level of underground station. Here, LMRC will provide facilities that people may utilise before their next flight or metro ride. 
 
 Under the contract, the contractor has to conduct geo-technical survey of AAI’s land—which includes soil testing, checking if utilities exist and have to be shifted, and whether the soil can support the infrastructure or not, among other aspects—make   of metro station, and finally construct it after LMRC’s approval. An official said, “The soil survey and structural design may take about three months, so we expect the groundwork to begin by October.” 
 
 Airport metro station would be slightly bigger than the rest of the underground stations and the construction cost will also be on the higher side because of the land’s price. The company which has bagged the project has worked in a prime role in Delhi   earlier. 
 
