BENGALURU: Chief minister   on Friday chose to disregard local   leaders who were instrumental in his joining the party and gave the entire credit to All India Congress Committee (AICC) chief Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary Ahmed Patel.

 “No Karnataka leader got me to Congress. Whoever says they did are only making claims. It was Patel who told me to join the party. It was he who took me to madam (Sonia Gandhi),” Siddaramaiah said during an interaction with media.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s candid statement comes a shocker to many state Congress leaders who have claimed credit for his Congress entry. While the CM’s friend-turned-foe and former MP H Vishwanath has maintained it was he who made the former a Congressman, other party leaders have attributed Siddaramaiah’s entry to leaders such as S M Krishna (now with BJP), Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjun M Kharge and energy minister D K Shiva Kumar.
 
 Siddaramaiah, who had remained silent on the issue so far, said: “I came to know Patel during the coalition government headed by  . After the political churning in JD(S) (referring to the differences between him and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda) I was taken by Patel to madam. Since I shared the common aim of fighting communal forces, she told me to continue the fight by joining Congress.”
 
 The CM also spiked public perception of Krishna having brought him to Congress. “After meeting madam, I went to Mumbai when Krishna was the Maharashtra governor. I told him about me joining Congress and requested his cooperation,” he added.
 
 Siddaramaiah chose to break the silence as a section of the Congress was trying to brand him as a ‘man with no gratitude’. He said the upcoming assembly elections will be fought under his leadership but left the decision on the chief ministerial candidate to the high command’s discretion.
 
 The CM maintained there was no anti-incumbency in the state. “Usually, anti-incumbency starts in the third year of the government, but we have completed four years. The recent bypoll results are a pointer to the fact that people continue to repose faith in us.”
 
 BOX: BJP leaders studying drought when it’s raining
 
 Siddaramaiah mocked state BJP leaders for embarking on a drought-review tour at a time when the state is receiving rainfall. “They are going out with umbrellas to study drought,” Siddaramaiah quipped, alleging that BJP has got its priorities wrong.
 
 “Instead of going to the districts to examine drought conditions, BJP leaders should have gone to Delhi and pressured Prime Minister Narendra Modi to waive farms loans and increase compensation for farmers hit by drought. They are not interested in farmers’ welfare,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 
