Ghaziabad: A 45-year-old menial worker in a Noida-based company has been arrested after his two minor daughters accused him of raping them many times over the past three to four years. The accused was arrested from his house in Sena Nagar after the girls informed their school teacher about the   who in turn informed police on Saturday morning.

 The elder girl is 13 years old and studies in Class VIII, while her younger sister is 12 years old and studies in Class VII. 
 
 The girls study in a government school in Dundahera. They were staying with their father in Sena Nagar ever since their mother left them in 2007 following a marital dispute. 
 
 According to police, the sisters have been facing the alleged abuse for the past three to four years. 
 
 ‘“According to the elder sister, she was raped for the first time nearly four years ago. She said she was fast asleep when her father forced himself on her that night. Her clothes were torn and she was brutalised as well. She was 9-10 years old then,” said Neeraj Singh, SHO, Vijaynagar police station.
 
 In her complaint, the elder girl claimed that when she woke up on Saturday morning, she found her clothes lifted off. 
 
 “She said her shirt buttons were open. She also recalled feeling the same way a number of times in the past three to four years. She also felt nauseous when she woke up in the morning,” said Singh. However, the police denied any claims of the father drugging the girls or subjecting them to physical assault.
 
 Recently, when the sisters went to school, the elder girl complained of stomach ache to one of her teachers.
 
  When the teacher questioned her, she opened up and narrated her ordeal. Following this interaction, the teacher called up the police station and complained against their father. 
 
 The teacher also took the girls to the police station and helped them file the complaint.The teacher believes that the elder girl is pregnant. However, the police have not confirmed this and are waiting for the medical report.
 
 The accused, meanwhile, denied all allegations. “I have not done anything like this and I am being framed by the girls,” he was quoted as saying by the police.
 
 An FIR under Section 375 ( ) of IPC and the   has been registered against the father at Vijaynagar police station. 
 
 He has been sent to judicial custody.
 
 The girls were in police custody till evening and will be taken for medical examination. “In cases of rape, the protocol is to take the survivor for medical examination and that procedure requires two days to complete,” said Rajesh Kumar, circle officer, Vijaynagar. 
 
 The girls would be kept in one of the Nari Niketan shelter homes in Ghaziabad, a police officer said.
 
 
