PATNA: The inquiry team probing the Sabbalpur diara boat tragedy that claimed 24 lives is likely to submit its report to the state government by the end of January.

 The team, comprising principal secretary (disaster management) Pratyaya Amrit and DIG (central range) Shalin, on Tuesday inspected the spot. It also examined police and tourism officials as well as the magistrates deployed on the site on the day.
 
 Bihar   ( ) MD Uma Shankar Prasad was also questioned by Pratyaya and Shalin at Gandhi Ghat. He had been summoned with all the documents related to the kite festival. 
 
 “We are probing all aspects. We inspected the spot and tried to reconstruct the incident through talks with locals and officials. We also questioned the officials deputed on the spot and scrutinised the related documents,” Amrit told TOI.
 
 The tragedy took place on Makar Sankranti on January 14 during the fifth edition of the Patna Kite Festival organised by the BSTDC in Sabbalpur diara area. 
 
 The probe team also went to the office of the Inland Waterways Authority of India at   to inquire about the operation of its C L Kasturba which, along with BSTDC’s steamers, was used to ferry revellers from Gandhi Ghat to Sabbalpur diara for free on the fateful day.
 
 According to sources, the kite festival last year attracted at least 10,000 people. Yet the BSTDC could make arrangements to ferry only around 500 people per trip. CL Kasturba has the capacity to ferry around 350 people while BSTDC’s MV Kautilya can ferry around 25 people.
 
 Two speed boats of BSTDC with a capacity of around 10 passengers each were also pressed into service. The BSTDC’s MV  , popularly known as floating restaurant, also plied but returned as it could not anchor at Sabbalpur diara due to shallow waters.
 
 The sources said the probe team was also investigating whether the Patna and Saran officials and the tourism department complied with the state government’s standard operating procedures for organising events involving mass gathering.
 
