HYDERABAD: The River   continues to remain as enigmatic as ever before, having made a mark of its own in historical records for being “now dry“ and “now in floods“. It has been the sorrow and pride of Hyderabad and its predecessor city of Golconda for over five centuries of recorded history.

 Musi was the lifeline of Hyderabad and Golconda for centuries before it turned into a municipal gutter. As Hyderabadis remember the Great Deluge of September 28, 1908, a look into the flood and drought history of the   over the last 500 years reveals that the river had been a natural enigma for foreign travellers, historians and chroniclers, who visited Golconda kingdom and Hyderabad during the Qutub Shahi regime.
 
 The Musi is perhaps the only river in India that has been associated with a legendary royal love affair that had pro mpted the ruler to build a bridge to protect his heir apparent from drowning when the river is flooded. It is also perhaps the only river whose history can be tracked for only 500 years though the water body has been in existence since time immemorial. The river was known as `Nerva' during the Qutub Shahi regime if travel accounts by foreign historians are any indication. Later, it came to be known as Musi (named after Judeo-Christian Muslim prophet  ) while its tributary is named Esi (after Jesus Christ). Sadly, no documented history of the river during the period of the Kakatiyas, prior to the Qutub Shahis exist.
 
 The first recorded history of flooding of Musi dates back to 1631 CE during the reign of Abdullah Qutub Shah VII. 
 
 The preceding year witnessed seve re famine in the Deccan. 
 
 Syed Ali Asgar Bilgrami, who served as the officiating director of Hyderabad state archaeology department during mid-1920s, wrote in his Landmarks of the Deccan that in 1631CE “excessive rainfall flooded the city, inasmuch as the water flowed right over the Old Bridge ( ), which led to the demolition of many lofty buildings of the city."
 
 The Puranapul was built 14 years before the foundation of Hyderabad was laid in 1591 CE, during the reign of Ibrahim Qutb Shah IV, as Bilgrami pointed out, “chiefly with a view to affording easy egress and to avoiding the risk of life which attended the nocturnal visits of Prince   to Bhagmati, a courtesan, who resided in the village of Chichlam, near Shah Ali Banda. 
 
 “ French traveller   (1633-1667 CE) referred to the calmness and fury of the Musi in these words: “The River of Nerva runs under the bridge, which then seemed to be but a brook, though in time of the rains, it be as broad as the Seine before the Louvre at Paris.
 
 “ He refers to a devastating flood in Hyderabad during his visit “It began to rain and thunder. 
 
 Thunder lasted not four days. Rain poured down with great storms of wind till midnight. 
 
 The river overflowed so prodigiously that there was no passing over bridges, not with the help of elephants.
 
 The river of   left two thousand houses damaged in which many people perished“.
 
 The other two devastating floods were reported during late 1820s and in 1908. 
 
 With modernity claiming its catchment, the Musi is no longer a river of floods. 
 
 What all remains of the mighty Musi now is a municipal drain.
 
