MOHALI: A drop of around Rs 10 crore in   over the years has become cause for concern at   (PSEB).   over the past four years has forced the board to find alternative ways to raise funds.

 Official sources said the board recently took a loan of Rs 4.5 crore from Punjab and Sind Bank against a fixed deposit of Rs 5 crore to raise funds to pay salaries.
 
 However, data obtained from the PSEB accounts department shows that fee collection over the last four years fell from Rs 124.16 crore to Rs 114.64 crore.
 
 Sources said the education board pays Rs 5 crore in salaries and an equal amount in pensions every month.With decline in income from students' fee, which is a major component of revenue, the board has been forced to take loans. On their part, board officials said they have been saving for a rainy day. Board secretary J R Mehrok said, “We save our earnings in the form of fixed deposits to earn more interest instead of keeping the money in savings bank accounts. In case of an emergency, the money can be taken on loan against the amount saved and the interest on fixed deposit, which is also earnings for the board, will be used to pay back. As far as drop in students' fee is concerned, we will look into the matter.“
 
 Sources said another factor leading to decline in revenue collection is de-affiliation of many schools. A day before the general body meeting of the board, Punjab education secretary and PSEB chairman Krishan Kumar announced that the management of adarsh schools would be handed over to the Punjab government. There are 11 schools in the state, which were earlier being managed by the education board. These will now be managed by director, public instructions (DPI) (schools).
 
 Welcoming the move, PSEB employees' union president Sukhchain Singh said, “This will decrease the burden on the board as it had to manage funds amounting to Rs 35 crore to run adarsh schools. With this, the burden of Rs 35 crore will be reduced.“ Union members said by taking back the management of adarsh schools, employees hoped for a revival of board finances.
 
