KOLHAPUR: Members of the   ( ) visited Chitranagari on Thursday and gave positive feedback about the ongoing renovation and construction work at the location.

 The members said considering the pace of the work, film shootings are likely to begin within the next two months.
 
 One of the officials from the construction team at the Chitranagari said that around four plantation bids have been received of which one will be finalised. The firm will be given the tender to look after the plantation at the 75 acre premises, most likely in the month of June.
 
 “Over 2,000 saplings will be planted at the venue. It will be that particular firm’s responsibility to maintain, survive and look after the plant saplings on the premises,” the official said.
 
 Earlier last year, the Maharashtra Film Stage and Cultural Development Corporation Limited ( ) had received only one eligible bid for Rs 49 lakh plantation works, resulting in calling for the re-tendering process in the month of August 2016.
 
 “The drive involves plantation of around 2,000 plants on the Morewadi premises of the Chitranagari and their maintenance for three years from the date of plantation,”  , MD of MFSCDCL, had said.
 
 Meghraj Rajebhosale, president of ABMCM, along with other officials visited the Chitranagari premises on Thursday and reviewed the undergoing work. He added that once the work completes here around May end, production houses can start shooting at the venue.
 
 Rajebhosale said the renovation work is undergoing at full pace and regular review is being carried out by the ABMCM and MFSCDCL officials.
 
 “The phase one work is likely to be completed by May end. The phase one includes Patil wada, which is used as village head’s house in Marathi movies, along with a police station set, a court house, and an indoor jail along with the road,” he said.
 
 Chitranagari is spread over 75-acre in Morewadi and was set up in 1984 by the state government. The objective of setting up the film city was to provide infrastructural set-up to the Marathi film industry and provide all the facilities, from shooting to post production, under one roof.
 
