THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Dropping plans to bring the employees striking against constitution of the   (KAS) into a consensus, the government has decided to act tough against them.

 On the instructions of the chief secretary, the   has begun compiling the details of those who have skipped work in the secretariat. The pro-UDF unions, including the Kerala Secretariat Association, the Kerala Law Secretariat Association and the Kerala Finance Secretariat Association had gone on a strike on Thursday after talks with chief secretary S M Vijayanand failed on Wednesday.
 
 Though the chief secretary has instructed the administrators to take the details of those who did not work, general administration department sources said it was almost an impossible task as the employees who went on strike had marked their attendance. Moreover, not many of them stayed away from duty. “Not many employees participated in the strike. It is difficult to compile the data as even sections officers who are supposed to give the data are giving their moral support to the striking employees. Once we are able to prove that they have not worked, they would be served showcause notice for dereliction of duty,“ department sources said.
 
 But the pro-UDF organizations that have called for a strike claimed that the strike was a huge success and even those from other employee organizations skipped work on Thursday. “Only 22.8% of employees have worked on Thursday. The government may take action against those who went on strike but we are ready to face the consequences,“ said additional secretary J Bency , president of Kerala Secretariat Association. However government sources said the secretariat recorded about 55% attendance.
 
 While the pro-CPM association Kerala Secretariat Employees' Association has not been participating in the strike and has welcomed the formation of the Kerala Administrative Service, other organizations including those of the CPI and the BJP have been opposing the move.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister   made it clear on Thursday that the KAS will be implemented despite opposition from the secretariat employees. He said the state needed it and the employees should cooperate.
 
 The KAS is proposed to be constituted as a separate cadre in the state, including the secretariat service for which the selection was proposed both from the departments as well as fresh recruitments, in a 1:1ratio.
 
