NAGPUR: Around 15,000-20,000 doctors and students from across the country will gather at New Delhi on June 6 to press for their long pending demands, under the banner of Indian Medical Association ( ).

 The movement, being called ‘Dilli Chalo’, is an effort to express solidarity within the fraternity, demonstrating its strength and exerting demands with more vigour to the Union government.
 
 The protest is being carried out as all the requests in the past two years to give a hearing on IMA’s demands have fallen on deaf years. The inter-ministerial committee by Union ministry of health and family welfare, which was formed on November 13, 2015, has not tried to resolve the problems of medical professionals.
 
 There are 1,700 active IMA branches in India, including 182 in Maharashtra, which will be joining the protest.
 
 Dr YS  , president elect of Maharashtra state IMA from city, told TOI that 1% of doctor members from all the branches of the country and 1% of medical students will gather at 8am at Rajghat on June 6 and march to Indira Gandhi stadium complex. They will protest for two hours.
 
 “Those not coming to Delhi will be protesting in a novel way. They will attend OPDs and see emergency patients. But as a ‘pen down’ strike, they will not prescribe any medicines from 10-12am. They will also share their problems with the patients to create awareness about the genuineness of their protest,” said Dr Deshpande.
 
 “The Medical Council of India (MCI) is a democratically elected body. But the Centre is trying to set up a new and purely nominated body called   (NMC), which is a completely draconian idea. IMA is suggesting to keep the MCI as an elected body, but we are in favour of making certain necessary amendments to remove the existing lacunae and improving the body,” he said.
 
 IMA Nagpur president Dr Vaishali Khandait also said it was high time that the Centre debates on the demands of national IMA and discusses the issues with the representatives of the medical fraternity.
 
 “Generally, cases of medical negligence are reported in the media without any proof and the doctor is declared guilty. No such case should be reported until the court has proved the doctor negligent. Also, assault on doctors should be made a non-bailable offence. PCPNDT Act should be amended and there should be no exit exam after final MBBS exams for students,” she said.
 
 Dr Prakash Deo, central IMA working committee member from the city, said the doctors were not against prescribing generic drugs, but for that the government should ensure availability of quality generic drugs.
 
 “The government should tell where generic drugs are available. It should completely disallow pharmaceutical companies to manufacture branded drugs and ensure that only generic drugs are manufactured,” said Dr Deo.
 
