Mohali: Rapid urbanization of peripheral areas of Chandigarh and Mohali has robbed them of green spaces, turning them into concrete jungles. Pollution levels too are rising due to a poor tree cover. To turn things around, TOI has joined hands with Hero Motors to plant 20,000 trees in two areas of Mohali. 

 The Hero TOI Green Drive, which is part of a larger national campaign, will plant trees in Peer Muchhala in Zirakpur and Dappar Army station in Lalru on September 23. These areas were selected because Peer Muchhalla seems to have more concrete buildings today than green cover. Similarly, the Dappar Army station has adequate space for planting  .
 
 TOI has been running campaigns to boost the green cover for past many months and efforts are being made to sensitise people of the Tricity about trees, their names, significance and benefits. TOI has also tried to motivate people to become tree lovers. 
 
 The campaign will not only motivate people but also inculcate tree consciousness amongst citizens and aim to create a sense of responsibility to nurture and look after the trees and to motivate communities and colonies to actively participate in combating pollution at local levels. 
 
 This initiative will add to reduce the presence of CO2 in the atmosphere in and around the city beautiful. 
 
 BOX
 
 Green Chandigarh Action plan 
 
 According to the Green Chandigarh Action plan for 2017-18, the UT forest department has planned to plant 2.35 lakh saplings along with sowing of 3 lakh seeds and 1.5 lakh stem cuttings at open areas. There will also be free distribution of 50,000 saplings like Neem, Jamun, Arjun, Mango, Peepal, Kachnar, Amaltas, medicinal and herbal plants. About 65,000 saplings of fruits and citrus plants are also planned to be planted.
 
 BOX
 
 Key Strategies 
 
 Many strategies are being devised to improve the green cover in and around Chandigarh. The UT administration has decided to rope in the services of various departments, NGOs, RWAs, market associations, eco-clubs and other organisations.
 
 BOX
 
 Solar power boost
 
 With the UT administration making efforts to promote renewable energy, the city has made significant strides in past few years in generating additional power through non-polluting sources. Recently, Chandigarh was selected by the central government to be developed as a “model solar city”. The administration aims to generate 50MW of solar energy, both residential and government, by 2022. Owing to efforts put of Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) in last three years, Chandigarh has been able to generate as many as 20.36 million units (MU) of solar energy till April 30 through 159 rooftop solar plants (SPV) installed in government buildings. One of the largest such plants in the city, 1 MWp capacity, have been installed and commissioned at Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12. Of 159 solar plants at government buildings, 64 have been installed at government schools, generating 2,510kWp of power. CREST has set a target of installing plants at all 107 government schools by the end of 2017.
 
 
