PANAJI: Porvorim residents have filed a complaint on Tuesday before the directorate of vigilance to register a case against   officials for illegally supplying water through water tankers to hotels along the coastal belt and creating a   in Porvorim.

  The complaint states that time and again residents have raised the water shortage issue with the PWD. The complaint goes on to state that water available in Porvorim constituency is not sufficient to meet the needs within the region, therefore residents are dependent on water supplied by tankers which meets the requirements if disbursed within the constituency.
 
 Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaute said it has been noticed that water tanker trips are made from Torda, O’Coquiero and other places in Porvorim to places outside the constituency. “This has led to water scarcity in the constituency. Despite water scarcity issues discussed with the PWD and various requests made, officials have taken Porvorkars for granted and are continuing to supply water to other regions,” he added. Locals also attributed the shortage to the construction of several buildings in the constituency, especially since 2012.
 
 Speaking to the media after residents submitted their representation to him, executive engineer V M Chavan said that there is sufficient water supply to individual houses but people residing in high rise buildings may face a water shortage. “We are providing water via tankers but still people file complaints,” Chavan said.
 
 The complaint also stated that it is a matter of grave concern that tankers authorized to supply water only in Porvorim are supplying water to neighbouring constituencies. “Records show that the majority of tankers are sent to hotels in Baga, Calangute and not residential areas,” the complaint stated. 
 
 Khaute said this raises suspicions that PWD officials are involved in underhand dealings with hoteliers in the coastal region.
 
 The complaint states that it is a known fact that water available in Porvorim constituency is not sufficient to meet the needs within the region, therefore residents are dependent on water supplied by tankers which meets the requirements if disbursed within the constituency
 
 
