Legend has it that one cricket pundit in Australia used to quip that   was the highest-paid university student in the country. Surely, he was not being derogatory towards the injury-prone New South Wales paceman but was just making a tongue-in-cheek remark on the cotton wool protection afforded to the youngster ever since his sensational Test debut nearly six years back and the subsequent multiple breakdowns which have so far prevented him from playing another. 

 It's like splashing a lot on a research being unsure if and when the desired result would be achieved but you have seen enough evidence to be convinced that it is worth the effort and wait. So 'Project Cummins' was on and now it has now reached another important juncture with his call-up to the Australian national team to replace the injured Mitchell Starc for the remainder of the India tour. 
 
 Naturally, the selection has not got wholesome approval from the cricketing fraternity Down Under. Cummins, playing his first shield match -- which incidentally was his ninth first-class match only -- after a gap of six years, bowled New South Wales to victory over South Australia with an eight-wicket match-haul last week. But to some observers, the 23-year-old right-arm pacer's durability still remains a question and they think Shield cricket has better alternatives to replace Starc. South Australian Chadd Sayers, who is leading the Shield wicket-takers list with 50 scalps, and Victorian  , who has made a stellar return from an injury break to take 14 wickets in three matches, were deemed wiser choices to join the India party. 
 
 "The plan was not for him (Cummins) to be playing in this Test series -- it was for him to be playing Sheffield Shield cricket. From that point of view it's Cricket Australia going against its own plans," former Australian pacer and NSW bowling coach Jeff Lawson told Fox Sports TV. "I think Pat is a very special bowler, so in terms of skill-wise and if you want someone to play cricket for Australia, I think Pat Cummins is your man," NSW captain Moises Henriques told Australian media. "But whether he's ready physically on the back of one Shield game, that's a completely different kettle of fish."
 
 However, Cummins has been an exception to the hard-nosed Australian ways right from the time he had burst onto the scene as a tearaway quick from Westmead, a suburb of Sydney. Baggy greens are not handed out easily.   had to wait till he turned 30 to touch it first-hand. Jamie Cox, with 161 Shield appearances, never got to. Cummins, on the other hand, was given a central contract when he was just 18 thus becoming the youngest Australian to receive it as he made his Test debut against South Africa in Johannesburg in November 2011. 
 
 Raw pace, touching the high 140s, was what Cummins grabbed the eyeballs with and his telling spells in the 2010-11 Big Bash League and the Champions League T20s fast-tracked him into the national team despite limited first-class experience. So in a span of 10 months, the lanky lad had made his T20, first-class, ODI and Test debuts. 
 
 Cummins, though, on his part lived upto the hype on his Test debut and came up with a seven-wicket Man of the Match performance - he even hit the winning runs - at the Wanderers that helped the Aussies lessen the pain of the '47 all out' ignominy in the preceding Cape Town Test and share the spoils in the two-Test series. 
 
 Throwing a youngster into the deep ends has always been seen as a progressive selection policy but Australia were to find out that the euphoria around Cummins would have little impact on results on field, not because he was not competent enough but because his fragile frame would see him spending more time on treatment table than out there on the pitch. 
 
 Cummins returned from his maiden Test series with a foot injury and then a back stress fracture ruled him out of the 2012-13 Australian summer too. A recurrence of the lower back stress injury in 2013 forced him to miss a third successive Shield season as frustration mounted among the Australian fans. Cricket Australia by then had realised that Cummins, more precisely his bones, should be allowed to mature and that his talents should not be let down the drain that easily. If you bowl at 150 kmph when you're just 19, you are bound to get a few injuries along the way was the natural conclusion reached on the Cummins situation. 
 
 That did not mean Cricket Australia were willing to let him be on his own. They took special care of his schedule so much so that they sent their bowling coach Ali de Winter to the 2012 Champions League to monitor the workloads of the Sydney Sixers pacer. He was even sent to the Australian Institute of Sport around the beginning of the 2012 home season to have his bowling action examined scientifically. There were reports of Cummins himself admitting of bad habits slipping into his bowling as a result of playing too much T20 cricket. "When I'm bowling with a red ball, I try to swing it and when I'm swinging the ball everything's going well…. But when you're bowling cross seamers with a white ball, you kind of fall into bad habits maybe," he had said around that time. 
 
 Cummins continued to nurse red-ball cricket ambitions even when he was making sporadic appearances for Australia in coloured clothing. But he was not desperate either. "There's a whole string of fast bowlers who were pushing the 140-150kmph barrier at 18, 19, 20 years old, and none of them went through unscathed. They all had a string of injuries over a few years and came out on the other side. So I'm not too fussed. I'd love to be playing, but I realise it's not a rare thing to occur," he had said referring to the likes of former Aussie greats like Jason Gillespie and   who had endured painful injury breaks on the sidelines before becoming permanent fixtures in the national team. 
 
 Fast forward to the present season and there are enough reasons to believe that this is not a false dawn for Cummins, who is already a World Cup winner though he played only two matches in the 2015 extravaganza. He is now 23, Lee's age when he made his Test debut against India in 1999. And the Aussie great had some special advice to Cummins at the start of the season, "let it rip Pat," he had said. And Cummins did. His spell of 4/41 against New Zealand at Canberra in December showed everyone he has still got the pace. 
 
 Cummins has already played 10 ODIs and three T20s for Australia this season, the longest streak he has ever had without a visit to the doctor. But the Test recall would have surprised the man himself. "It's pretty silly talking about Test matches before I've played at least a couple of Shield games and proved I can deserve a spot in the Test side," Cummins told Australian media in December. "I still think it's a little far away," said the man who was bought by Delhi Daredevils for the 2017 IPL for Rs 4.5 crores. He had earlier played for Kolkata Knight Riders and was part of the title-winning team of 2014. 
 
 Gambling, as it may seem if Australia do go in with Cummins ahead of Jackson Bird in Ranchi in conditions that could be unforgiving for a young seamer, there are backers for the idea. "As I look at it, the selectors have replaced one high-velocity bowler with another. Cummins is young and quick and can move the ball around. If he feels okay following the jet lag, I would be tempted to play him alongside Hazlewood as he is on top of his game and bowled really well in the Sheffield Shield," former Australian pacer Craig Mcdermott, who was the bowling coach when Cummins made his debut, told The Times Of India. 
 
 Jason Gillespie was also not in favour of the idea of having Cummins carrying drinks after having him flown in. "I don't see what Australia have got to lose by playing him," Gillespie told Cricket Australia website. "He's that point of difference and it could be similar to the Josh Hazlewood-Mitchell Starc combination. They complement each other well and if Cummins does get the nod, he could be the x-factor much like Mitchell Starc is." 
 
 Now that the cotton wool has been peeled off and Cummins unleashed, the cricketing world would be eager to see whether the prodigious pacer would get to add to his lone Test cap and if so where he stands. And Indian captain Virat Kohli, who was done in by the Australian's pace and miscued a pull to lose his wicket in the 2012 World T20 defeat, would know what is in store. Time to know whether the university student can pass the graduation exams and it promises to be exhilarating, just like Cummins's bowling.
 
