PATNA: The state government will give permission to the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) for commencing the works for dismantling the dilapidated   in a week. The western flank of the bridge — Patna to Hajipur — will be demolished first. The decision in this regard was taken at a high-level meeting attended by senior MoRTH and state government officials, including chief secretary  , DGP P K Thakur, Patna and Vaishali DMs, Saran SP, Patna SSP and traffic SP, in the state capital on Thursday.

 The MoRTH officials will hold two more meetings on the setu rehabilitation project on Friday — first with the ADG (law and order) and another with the traffic SP.
 
 “The dismantling works will start from Hajipur-end of the bridge and first six spans from that end will be demolished first. The government has claimed to have made a couple of arrangements for alternative traffic movement,” said a senior MoRTH official present in the meeting.
 
 The existing superstructure of the Gandhi setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like the   or the Koilwar rail bridge will be erected under the rehabilitation process. The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs 1,742.01 crore.
 
 Apparently, a tussle is going on between the state government and the MoRTH over commencement of dismantling of the setu. The state has been demanding from the Centre to hold the dismantling works till alternative traffic arrangement is in place, whereas the Centre is quite keen on starting the work at the earliest as it awarded the contract for the project on November 19 last year and the dismantling works were proposed to begin from January 17.
 
 State government officials informed the MoRTH officials in Thursday’s meeting that one pontoon bridge had already been made ready parallel to the setu and the Ara-Chhapra bridge and road-deck of the Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge would also be made ready by June.
 
 Senior officials in the road construction department said the pontoon bridge was scheduled to be inaugurated on Saturday. The length of the pontoon bridge, developed by Shristi Developers, is 1.5km. The approach road for the bridge starts from the   police station on Patna side and the Gandhi setu police station in Hajipur.
 
 Though both road and rail deck of the Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge were made ready in 2015 and movement of passenger trains also commenced from February last year, the road deck is still to be opened for traffic due to delay in construction of approach roads. However, the road construction department has recently committed before the Patna high court that the approach roads will be ready by June.
 
