THANAPADA (NASHIK): The eyes and ears of hundreds of adivasis milling around a small window of the dingy   branch in remote Thanapada village in Trimbak taluka of Nashik are trained towards a bank employee.

 They are waiting for him to call out the names of those who will get cash. “Chandar Gavit,  ,“ he shouts and these `lucky' persons rush from the crowd to get their bank passbook and cash.
 
 Many adivasis have come to Thanapada early in the morning to submit their passbooks, withdrawal slips and identity proofs to bank person. It's about 2pm when the cash distribution starts.
 
 “I am giving you the amount that you want to withdraw. Say yes. Let people know that you got all the cash you withdrew,“ the bank employee tells Gavit.
 
 He nods his head and vanishes from the scene, but does not question why his bank passbook has a record of the withdrawal amount written in pencil.
 
 Some   are turned away by the bank employee who tells them to fill up a new withdrawal slip. As one of them steps away from the window with a gloomy face and a crumbled withdrawal slip, a bunch of people surround him offering a blank slip and assistance __ Rs 20 per withdrawal slip and Rs 10 to fill it.
 
 “Like the cash crunch, there is a withdrawal slip crunch in the market. We are charging Rs 20 because these are poor people,“ a youth waving the slips in his hand said.
 
 When asked how he could sell withdrawal slips and where did he get them from, he melts into the crowd.
 
 “For adivasis, Rs 20 is a big amount. It can buy them rice or other grain for a month. We have intervened and informed bank officials about this business of selling withdrawal slips. But nothing has happened,“ Mulvad village sarpanch Baliram Bangad said.
 
 Gondi Bhaye is in her eighties and she has come to withdraw Rs 1,000 from her account. “I opened my account because the government gives me Rs 500 every month under the niradhar yojana,“ she said with a trembling voice.
 
 She is paralyzed and finds it difficult to walk and talk. The woman assisting her takes her to the bank's window, but the bank employee returns her withdrawal slip and bank passbook saying that she cannot withdraw Rs 2,000.
 
 “Get a new withdrawal slip,“ he tells Gondi. The woman with her signals to a person in the crowd who comes rushing with one.
 
 “There is Rs 1,157 in your account. You can withdraw Rs 600 as you have to keep a permanent deposit of Rs 500 to keep the account working,“ he explains to Gondi.
 
 After waiting for a couple of hours, Gondi's demand is rejected again and the bank employee asks her to get her the signature and passbook of someone to verify her identity.
 
 Gondi merges into the crowd, dragging her leg and begging people to help her. It is her fourth day at the bank and there is only one bus to Thanapada which returns to her village at 4pm. “I have spent a lot of money to withdraw cash and don't know how much more I will have to spend,“ she says, breaking down.
 
 The crowd swells around the branch which is closed from the inside. The only access is through a window.Soon, a bank employee announces that the cash for the day is over.
 
 Hiraman Ghatole, a youth operating a computer typing centre wants to know how is the cash over within a few hours.
 
 “They don't answer at all. We tried to know why they are not printing the withdrawn amount in the passbook. They said the printer was not working,“ he fumed.
 
 Inside the bank, three employees and a branch manager go about their work.After knocking on the door for five minutes, it opens and people rush inside.
 
 Bank manager Alok Singh is busy with a person sitting across him. He admitted that withdrawal slips were being sold. “We are aware of it. Probably someone from the bank must be involved. We feel that someone from Nashik is involved. Withdrawal slips were photocopied,“ he said, claiming that there is no money charged for slips now.
 
 “We have two permanent employees and cash doesn't come regularly,“ he added.Gavit, who could withdraw Rs 2,000, is in the market looking for change. Grocery owners tell him to make a purchase of at least Rs600-700.
 
 “There is no money in the market. You people won't realize how much we have suffered. The government should have printed small currency notes instead of Rs 2,000 notes,“ Bhau Gawali said.
 
 Others around him said there was no point in discussing what the government must do as their voice will never reach New Delhi.
 
 “Our lives will go waste standing in queues, whether it is a voting queue or the bank queue. I have voted so many times standing in queues, but nothing has changed. This time, it is a new queue. The poor must always be ready to stand in queues without expecting anything,“ an old man said.
 
 He did not give his name.“We are faceless people in a queue. Don't write anything about us. We have learned to live this way.“
 
