IMPHAL: All large withdrawals from banks in Manipur will now be monitored by the income tax (I-T) department as per the directives of the Election Commission. 

 Nearly 70 I-T officials have been deployed in the state to enforce the law and prevent the misuse of money in the election.
 
 The I-T officials will keep a watch on all suspicious cash withdrawals across nationalized, state-owned and private banks. The movement of money through the banks will also be monitored.
 
 "If an individual withdraws a large amount of money, it will be checked," said chief election commissioner  .
 
 So far, I-T officials have conducted a search in three places. The income tax department also conducted surveys in four other cases. It is organizing regular meeting with the I-T authorities of neighbouring states to check the movement of money.
 
 All flights, including charter flights, arriving at Imphal airport will also come under surveillance. The I-T department's   (AIUs) have been made operational in Imphal, Agartala, Silchar, Aizawl and Guwahati airports, the EC officials said.
 
 Sources said these steps were being taken to prevent the use of money power in the election. Leaders of various political parties have complained to the EC on the abuse of money in the poll campaign and requested stern action.
 
 The EC has also directed all Returning Officers to load affidavits filed by all candidates so that I-T authorities could carry out real-time monitoring. All district election officers have constituted Election Expenditure Monitoring Teams as per the EC's instructions. Expenditure monitoring machinery comprising flying squads and static surveillance teams have been fully activated. Preventive measures have also been taken up with coordinated efforts of the I-T department, banks, narcotics, customs, excise and state taxation officials and police.
 
 More than Rs 38 lakh in cash has already been seized by enforcement agencies so far. The EC has asked the I-T department to step up its enforcement action on poll-related misuse of money. The Assam Rifles and the   (BSF) have also been sensitized about the international borders. The commercial tax department has been roped in to track movement of goods for election purposes. Three mobile teams and a control room have been set up. All district magistrates have been asked to coordinate with banks to adhere to SOP for the movement of their cash and for ATM use. The EC has directed all banks to adhere to the SOP for cash movement and warned of strict action if the banks failed to comply.
 
