BENGALURU: The   on Wednesday passed an interim order asking the authorities not to issue appointment orders to   of the   conducted by the   (KPSC) in 2011. 

 “During the pendency of the writ petitions, the authorities are directed not to give appointment as per the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal (KSAT) order,” a division bench headed by Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee observed. It was hearing a PIL filed by R Renukambike and 11 others. The court also ordered notice to the state government and KPSC in this regard.
 
 On October 19, the tribunal had directed the government to appoint the successful candidates to 362 posts, while allowing the applications challenging the August 14, 2014 notification issued by the government withdrawing the recruitment process. On March 17, 2017, based on KSAT’s decision, the government began the administrative process to appoint the 362 gazetted probationers. According to the petitioners, KSAT’s order is illegal, arbitrary and the government’s act of issuing appointment orders to the tainted candidates based on the KSAT directive amounts to flagrant violation of principles of natural justice.
 
 The petitioners said the tribunal not only committed a blunder in allowing the applications but also exceeded its jurisdiction by exercising quasi-judicial functions and intervening in the government’s policy decision.
 
 They also pointed out that the tribunal didn’t appreciate material facts like rampant corruption and the CID probe before issuing the direction.
 
 
 
 Baffled by BBMP’s laxity in dealing with an illegally dug pit (30 ft deep and occupying an area of 60,000 sq ft), the high court has directed the BBMP commissioner to file a detailed statement. The pit was allegedly dug on a piece of land adjacent to the petitioner’s property in Hulimavu.
 
 Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan directed the BBMP chief to submit a detailed affidavit by April 18 on the fate of the FIR lodged by BBMP in 2011 at Hulimavu police station. The court also asked the official to give information on the steps taken by BBMP, from June 2013 till March 2017, against a person named in the petition. If no action has been taken, the commissioner should reveal the names of those officers who were responsible for not taking any concrete step.
 
 “The facts narrated by the commissioner sound impressive at the first instance, but a detailed examination reveals BBMP’s laxity. Having issued a notice on July 2, 2011, the agency has not taken any action against the respondent. It has not even bothered to follow up on the FIR. Neither the commissioner nor the counsel for BBMP is in a position to inform this court about the final outcome of the FIR,” said Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan.
 
 M/s Esteem Enclave filed the petition in 2013, alleging inaction on the part of BBMP officials/engineers against Muninarayan, who they claim dug the pit close to their property.
 
 
 
 
 In a big relief for five syndicate members of Bangalore University, the high court stayed the implementation of the January 6, 2017 order of the higher education department, which said only education experts and not syndicate members are empowered to carry out inspection and affiliation of colleges.
 
 Vijayakumar Simha N, Jayanna, Nafiz Fathima, B G Ravikumar and K R Manjunath filed the petition, claiming Section 59(6) of the Universities Act confers the right on the syndicate to consider applications for affiliation to colleges.
 
 
