NEW DELHI: An interaction on Facebook turned out to be a nightmare for a Malaysian woman, who has alleged that a man raped, cheated and had unnatural sex with her on the pretext of marriage. Following the police investigation, a court has framed charges against the man for rape, unnatural sex and cheating.

 The woman alleged that she made several trips to India following the promise of marriage and even paid the accused in Malaysian ringgits amounting to lakhs of rupees after he promised to marry her, get her an Indian citizenship and accept her child from a previous marriage.
 
 Realising that he had taken physical and financial advantage, the woman filed a complaint with the police following which additional sessions judge Ramesh Kumar-II framed the charges under IPC Sections 376 (2) (n) (raping a woman repeatedly), 377 (unnatural sex) and 420 (cheating). 
 
 In her complaint, the woman alleged that she was in touch with the man on Facebook from September 2015 to May 2016. She also came to India and during her 15-day stay in the city, developed physical relations with the man believing he would marry her. “Not only this, the accused also made a video recording” and clicked her nude photos, the complaint alleged.
 
 Senior public prosecutor AT Ansari highlighted the allegations made in the woman’s complaint which alleged that the man kept making excuses that he was trying to convince his family as theirs was going to be an inter-faith marriage.
 
 Besides 20,000 ringgits (Rs 3.2 lakh) given by the woman to the man for accommodation, she again gave 1,800 ringgits (Rs 30,000) as he assured an Indian citizenship and registration of marriage. She, however, went back as none of what had been promised happened. On her return, the woman alleged, the man obtained her signature on a blank piece of paper and she also paid 15,000 ringgits (Rs 2.4 lakh) and gave two diamond-studded gold rings.
 
 The woman kept transferring money to the man from time to time, but on realising that she was “cheated, exploited and physically abused” got a complaint registered with the police.
 
