HYDERABAD: With summer setting in, increasing number of college students in the city are eyeing internships in tech firms and start-ups offering opportunities to prove their mettle.
While the India Skills Report (ISR)-2017 said that the educated youth of Telangana is one of the most poorly skilled in the country, industry experts claim that internship proves to be beneficial for students to get a hang of corporate life.
 
 A random search on the web reveals that few IT firms in the city offer good money to students willing to take up internships. While internship as a campus ambassador entrepreneur in a software firm offers Rs 5,000 per month, internship into client servicing in a digital firm offers Rs 20,000 per month.
 
 “Internships not only offers market exposure but also good stipend,“ agreed Ananya Mullapudi, student of   in Begumpet.
 
 A lot of companies are also appointing campus ambassadors who promote their brand within their network for a stipend of Rs 2,000-3,000 per month.“We have classmates who promote few brands in the college fest and other cultural programmes to increase the visibility of the brand,“ said Aditya Raju, student of Bhavan's College in Sainikpuri.
 
 Seconding to the trend, Aspiring Minds Internship Survey 2016, too reflects that increasing number of students in Hyderabad are matching up to cities such as Mumbai, New Delhi and Bengaluru. The sur vey reveals that Hyderabad is fourth in the list to have maximum number of students applying for internships on online internship portals. The survey reveals that with various content platforms gaining traction and visibility, a spurt in internships has followed.
 
 “New internships from the first week of January show that the trend is firmly towards content and marketing positions that can be filled by willing interns. While internet companies and start-ups have been doing this for a while, more established companies are building these functions as well,“ said  , chief operating officer of Aspiring Minds which is a   and certification company.
 
