Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday asked the Tamil Nadu government as to why it can’t consider prescribing CBSE syllabus for all schools, including government and matriculation schools in the state. 

 To this, special government pleader said the government had issued an order constituting a high-level committee headed by former Anna University vice-chancellor M Anandakrishnan to look into the feasibility of bringing a better curriculum than that of other boards, including the CBSE.
 
 A division bench headed by justice K K Sasidharan asked this question when it was hearing a public interest litigation filed by the correspondent of Syed Ammal Higher Secondary Schools, Babu Abdullah.
 
 The petitioner contended that CBSE syllabus is followed in schools in Kerala and Karnataka, which helps students in those states pass national level tests easily. The bench observed that the issue could be relegated to the committee and directed the government to file an affidavit with respect to the steps it has taken to promote the curriculum. 
 
 Citing the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) held in May, the petitioner said the central government had mandated NEET for admission to UG/PG medical courses. The CBSE conducts NEET on the basis of its syllabus. Students studying in government and matriculation schools are unable to compete with those who study CBSE syllabus. 
 
 The CBSE routinely reviews its syllabus. However, the state government has not chosen to do it. Hence, it is necessary to prescribe the CBSE syllabus for government and matriculation schools in Tamil Nadu. Unless and until they are done, Tamil Nadu students would not be in a position to face the national level entrance tests successfully, according to the petitioner.
 
 The petitioner sent a representation to the school education secretary on May 19 last. But there was no action on it, the petitioner said. 
 
 “You (the government) passed an order giving 85% reservation for students -- who completed Class XII by studying state board syllabus -- in undergraduate medical and dental courses on the ground that those students faced difficulty in competing with CBSE students in when it comes to NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test). If you introduce CBSE syllabus in all schools, they will easily succeed in the national level competitive examinations. Why can’t you consider it?” the bench asked.
 
 The court then adjourned the case to August 3.
 
 
