Panaji: Sinquerim villagers and heritage lovers are upset over the issuance of a construction licence by Candolim panchayat for a commercial/residential building near Aguada fort, as development within 100-metre radius of the monument is not permitted. The matter spilled into the public domain after the private party recently erected a framework at the site for a fence with metal sheets a few metres from the national monument. Some villagers gathered at the site and halted the work. No work then was carried out at the 3,186-square metre property. Archaeological survey of India (ASI) officials at Old Goa have also orally directed the firm not to commence work, as the site is within the 100m zone.  Constructed in 1612 by the Portuguese, Aguada fort encircling the entire hill in the past, is steeped in history. The upper fort has a new and old lighthouse, and commands a scenic view of the surroudings.  The lower fort wall running east to west overlooks Sinquerim beach. With a circular bastion extending into the sea, the wall also has a deep moat. Both sections are a major tourist attractions.  The villagers are apprehensive about the threat to the monument, its heritage character and concretization of the already-congested area. “The ASI sends us notices if we cover our garage with metal sheets. How can the panchayat issue a construction licence for a project near a monument protected by the central government without due permission from the national monument authority (NMA),” Jose Paul Silveira, a Sinquerim resident asked. Company officials have informed ASI that permission for the project has been sought from the Delhi-based NMA. “But so far, we have not received any intimation for a site inspection,” an ASI official said. The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010, has been passed to create a competent authority at central level, the NMA, to safeguard the contiguous area of the monument. “The 100m area around the monument is completely prohibited for any kind of erection/construction and this can be extended beyond, depending on the importance of the monument,” an ASI official said. The local panchayat issued the construction licence on May 20, 2017, towards the fag end of its term. Former sarpanch Sandra Fialho explained: “We issued the licence on the basis of permission from the NGPDA (June 14, 2016).” An NGPDA official said that permission has been issued based on the firm’s application and subject to obtaining licence from panchayat. It can be revoked if facts are not correct Heritage lovers stress the need to map the sacrosanct zones around heritage sites. “It is important to mark the no-development zones and restricted zones around heritage monuments on development plans,” Raya Shankwalker, secretary, Goa heritage action group (GHAG), said. Regulations to control development are available and various stakeholders have drawn up lists of heritage assets. “It is time to seriously think of incorporating these regulations and comprehensive listing of monument in the new RP,” Shankwalker said.