CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu and the Centre have laid out an ambitious Rs 1,600 crore plan to introduce deep sea fishing and phase out bottom trawling from   near Palk Bay, which remains a contentious area with Sri Lankan naval authorities apprehending such fishermen. However, documents suggest that the plan has run into rough weather as banks have expressed reservations over institutional finance for the project.

 The diversification proposal was given a direct sanction of Rs 300 crore by the Prime Minister’s office in the first phase. In three years, the government has planned to introduce 2,000 deep sea fishing vessels.
 
  Each vessel costs Rs 80 lakh, of which the Centre’s contribution would be Rs 40 lakh (50%), Rs 16 lakh (20%) would come from the state government and Rs 8 lakh would have to be contributed by the beneficiary fisherman. It was envisaged that institutional finance would take care of the remaining Rs 16 lakh for each vessel.
 
 The policy is of prime importance to the Centre and state governments given the contrentious fishermen-Sri   standoff. An earlier policy by the state government had envisaged only 30% subsidy for the farmers, but with the Centre stepping in, it is now 70%, a senior fisheries department official said.
 
 In a May 16 letter,  , principal secretary of the fisheries department, requested banks for a loan of Rs 16 lakh to each fishermen, but without insisting on collateral security. The state government also declined to provide guarantee for this, suggesting that the deep sea fishing vessel itself might be accepted as security against the loan.
 
 This has become a contentious issue for the banks, as according to   (RBI) guidelines, lending beyond Rs 1 lakh without collateral security is a commercial decision to be taken by the individual banks.
 
 Another key point deliberated by banks during a special meeting convened on May 25 is that the deep sea fishing proposal has not indicated any tie-up arrangements like storing and marketing facilities for the catch which would obviously increase due to the vessels.
 
 The fact that in case of a default by fishermen, it would be very difficult to seize the boat as it would be in deep sea and its disposal or resale would not be easy also came up for discussion at the meeting.
 
 A top fisheries department official told TOI that the issues have been taken up with top officials in the central government. “Since the state level banking committee has decided that individual banks can take their own decision to finance the deep sea fishing vessels, a few banks in   have been convinced. We are holding extensive talks with them,” the official said.
 
