JABALPUR: The local residents in   staged a rail roko agitation protesting the transfer of superintendent of police  . On Friday, they had given the state administration an ultimatum of three days to revoke Tiwari's transfer or face a ‘rail roko andolan' in the city.

 In light of that threat, a big police force was deployed at the railway station premises, Dilbahar Square, Subhas Square, autorickshaw stands and other key places in the city. The road connecting Subhash Square to Vishwakarma Gate was closed by the police.. However, despite the police presence, the protestors managed to stop a passenger train for about 15 minutes at Murwara station in the city. 
 
 Congress leaders MLA Jitu Patwari, senior leader Sunderlal Tiwari and local MLA Saurabh Singh also joined the protests early Monday. They started out their protest rally from the residence of local MLA Saurabh Singh, clashed with the police and managed to move ahead after breaking down barricades.
 
 SP Katni Shashikant Shukla said, “A total of 124 protestors were arrested, but no violence was reported from any part of the city. Traffic of the city remained disturbed due to the crowd as both the rallies were taken out on the same day”.
 
 On January 9 the state government had transferred Katni district superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Tiwari to Chhindwara. The 2010 batch IPS officer was investigating some influential leaders in the ruling BJP for their alleged links in a Rs 500-crore hawala racket.
 
 The volunteers of the Congress party started their protest rally from the residence of local MLA Saurabh Singh, there were minor clashes when police tried to stop them, the protestors moved ahead after breaking the barricades.
 
 SP Katni, Shashikant Shukla said, “A total of 124 protestors were arrested but no violence was reported from any part of the city. Traffic of the city remained disturbed due to the crowd as both the rallies were taken out on the same day”.
 
 Meanwhile a large number of Pathak supporters arrived in Katni town and organised a rally. Police in the town had a tough time maintaining order and avoid a clsh between the two groups of protesters.
 
 
