Popular RJ and singer  , who recently accused actor  's team of manhandling her, had leaked private pictures of the actor, Trisha,   Jeremiah,   Ravichander, Hansika Motwani and VJ Divya Darshini. Between leaking these pictures on her social networking page, there also tweets saying that her account has been hacked and these tweets are being posted by someone else. Within minutes though, more sensational and salacious leaks are shared.

 
 
 But after the leak of these private, everyone is now wondering if her account was hacked in the first place? While there been reports suggesting that her account has actually been hacked, there are also unconfirmed reports that she is suffering from a medical condition and isn't in her senses when she does these things.
 
 The latest is that, private videos of these celebrities have also started leaking. The first of the leaked video is of actress  . The following tweets in her account also suggests that videos of singer Chinmayi-Anirudh, Dhanush-Amala Paul and   will be leaked in the coming days. Sanchita Shetty has responded on twitter via a video saying, "I'm very much aware of what is happening on social media. I want to clarify one thing to my fans and all who love me. Whatever is circulating on social media, the pictures and video, those are not mine. Thanks for your love and support."
 
  
  
 A few days earlier, she tweeted out a series of messages accusing Dhanush’s team of manhandling her. She also shared a picture of her bruised arm. Yesterday, she has tweeted saying that Dhanush and Anirudh has mixed something in her drink when they met at a party last week.
 
 An email conversation between Andrea and director   in which the actress talks about some intimate scenes of herself with Selvaraghvan, that were shot for a film, was also leaked. Suchitra's tweets also alleges that the semi-nude picture of actress   was taken 5 years for director Shankar.
 
 While the images were soon deleted, several people gained access to screenshots of the photos of the private moments between the actors.
 
  
  
  
 In the meantime, the singer's husband Karthik Kumar had come out with a statement in which he stated that   was going through an emotional condition and that the family is trying to understand her condition.
 
 
