JODHPUR: Urban Development & Housing (UDH) department suspended two executive engineers of local bodies, JDA (Jaipur) and UIT (Pali), 40 days after they were arrested by ACB for alleged irregularities in JDA (Jodhpur) in 2013.

 Both engineers – Mohanl Lal Sharma and   – were posted at JDA (Jodhpur) and were arrested by ACB on January 7 along with proprietor of a construction company  , alleged to be the beneficiary of the irregularities.
 
 S P (ACB) Ajay Pal Lamba said that a case against five persons and others had been registered by ACB in May last year for allegedly tampering with the original tender conditions by shifting the work from the approved site to other one and inappropriately increasing the financial sanction.
 
 “The three accused had been arrested in January while two others, the then chairman of JDA (Jodhpur) Rajendra Solanki, a close aide of former chief minister  , and the then director (technical) in JDA (Jodhpur) K K Mathur, currently posted in Ajmer, have been absconding,” Lamba said.
 
 After repeated attempts to catch them, ACB has now got arrest warrants issued against them and will proceed to initiate seizure of their properties, the list of which is being prepared.
 
 Exploring all the possibilities to escape the ACB net, the two absconding accused have also moved an application praying for anticipatory bail in the high court, which is yet to come up for hearing.
 
 Prior to this, they also tried to get the case against them quashed by moving the high court but even that application has not come up for hearing compelling them to move an anticipatory bail application.
 
 Lamba said that besides these five persons, the then JDA commissioner, some engineers and accounts officials are also accused in the case and more arrests could be made in the due course of investigation. But all of them are absconding.
 
 The ACB had also found in its investigation that illegal sanctions were given through illegal documentation on many stages by the incompetent officials beyond their jurisdiction for the sake of extending undue advantage to their near and dear ones in this case.
 
