As the mercury level keeps fluctuating between 7 and 11 degree Celsius in the city, Nashikites are warming up to the idea of using of the hills for fitness. You can spot many   enthusiasts at   and   hills near  , early morning in their jogging pants and tees.

  
 
 
  For many, getting up early on chilly mornings is a next-to-impossible task. However, a few youngsters have taken up the challenge and are going for a regular early morning run. “It feels great to run in the morning. I am not a typical morning person; in fact, I always used to sleep late. But my parents challenged me to get up early and exercise. I accepted their challenge and since then, I don’t stay in bed after sunrise. I go for a jog in a park or sometimes at Ramshej. 
 
  Running up the hill helps build my stamina,” says Nikhil Udagirkar, a management student, adding that running has helped him lose those extra pounds.
 
  
 
 
  The reason why people prefer their morning walks even in harsh   is the fresh air. “The air quality is much better in the morning. Sometimes I think that we city folks have forgotten what fresh air feels like thanks to all the polluted air we constantly breathe in. Therefore, I make it a point to climb Pandavleni in the morning,” says Sudhir Vyavahare, a government employee. One can also see cyclists peddling through the city in the morning.
 
  
 
 
  Not just the nearby hills, jogging tracks in the city are also crowded in the morning. One can see a significant increase in the crowd as the first-timers and regulars walk side by side. Some enthusiasts also do some yoga in the open air. “Winter brings out the fitness enthusiast in everyone. All of a sudden, people are hitting the gym or joining yoga classes. Jogging tracks are also full with youngsters who come for a walk or jog and later catch up with friends. I think it’s great because rather than sitting at fast food joints and consuming all those calories, you can burn them and catch up with friends as well,” says Shayana Agrawal, a fashion designing student.
 
 
