BENGALURU: About 25 years ago, it was near impossible for a resident of Koramangala to find a public phone booth. Students of   were often told their campus was `out of town'. Today, Koramangala is known as the startup centre or pub hub with cheap, trendy restaurants, but its residents are fighting illegal commercial activity. 

 More than 60 commercial establishments fill Koramangala 6th Block, while 1st Block has about 29. The 17 main roads are home to salons, restaurants, pharmacies, clinics, small startups, bakeries and supermarkets.There are also service apartments, paying guest accommodations and tutorials in the middle of residential localities.
 
 On 6th Cross in 6th Block, where   stands, street hawkers as well as restaurants, boutiques and pharmacies encroach on pavements. BBMP has now declared the residential area a commercial access road.
 
 On 17th A and B main roads, sewage overflows are frequent as the network has not been enhanced to handle commercial sewage. Typically , a road categorized as commercial needs a different sewage network with higher capacity.  , a resident of 18th Main Road, says a new commercial space has come up there almost every month in the past year. “We are living in filth with clogged drains be cause of irresponsible dumping of waste by restaurants and offices,“ she said.
 
 “Unsegregated waste is dumped anywhere. One even finds plates and tumblers when the sewer lines are cleaned,“ said Maria Raj, said Maria Raj, a resident of 6th Block.
 
 In December 2016, BBMP cracked down on commercial establishments without trade licenses in residential areas, and 13 outlets in 1st Block got notices. “There is no transparency in who gets the notices and who doesn't,“ said Raj.“Commercial establishments in 1st and 3rd Block got notices but no action was taken against those in 6th Block,“ she said.
 
 “If BBMP decides to make a particular locality a mixed or commercial zone, it must ensure the locality has public toilets. Hawkers have nowhere to go and defecate in playgrounds and parks,“ said  , president of the residents' welfare association. Lack of awareness about rules is another problem.“Typically, residents rent their houses to small startups.Unaware that this is illegal, startup founders set up shop in a house and pay lower rent and water and power charges,“ said  , a resident of 6th Block.
 
 The road on which Jyoti Nivas College stands is usually busy , not just with students but also people enjoying a beer or meal at one of the many pubs and restaurants. Daylight brawls are common, said Pri yanka Shenoy , a student. The law bans sale of tobacco within 100m of an educational institution. “That law is definitely broken on this road. Brawls often break out and police have to be called,“ she said.
 
 The residents' welfare association in 3rd Block has been battling illegal commercial setups.  , president of the association, said, “We have taken 20 commercial establishments to court and are fighting the cases on our own. It's a tough battle but we'll keep at it.“
 
