HYDERABAD: After a  , when Hyderabad recorded the maximum   in over 10 years, daily temperatures are likely to dip in the last week of May. 

 "A depression, presently hovering over south-east Bay Of Bengal, will soon head towards coastal AP and parts of Telangana. This is likely to happen by May 26, according to forecasts. If this is the case, it will likely bring down the daily recorded temperatures in both AP and Telangana. The south-east   is likely to set over Kerala earlier than expected," said R V Subba Rao, assistant meteorologist (retired), Met department, Hyderabad.
 
 In a slight difference of opinion, Y K Reddy, director of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, cautioned that sporadic heat wave conditions may still occur. "The present spell of heat wave gripping Telangana is likely to last till May 25. There are chances of more such spells in the city until the end of the first week of June, which marks the onset of monsoon in Hyderabad region," said Reddy. 
 
 Even as weathermen have predicted the dates for the onset of monsoon, the heat continues to singe residents of the city . 
 
 "Having lived in Hyderabad for close to 10 years, I have seen the city transform into a scorching concrete jungle. This is mainly because huge green spaces across the city have been hacked down to make way for buildings. Even today, one can feel the temperatures dropping while near the Botanical Garden in Kothaguda and the KBR Park in Jubilee Hills. The state government must consider building more such lung spaces," said Sesha Nanduri, a resident ofthe Begumpet area.
 
 Weather experts assert that the city could have actually found respite from the heat had it received ample pre-monsoon showers during this time. 
 
 "This is the first time since 2010 that the city has recorded daily temperatures way above normal averages through April and May. Dry weather in Hyderabad and across the state have been caused by reduced pre-monsoon activities. The dry and hot winds blowing from the Central India region are also equally responsible," said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change at Skymet, a private weather forcasting agency.
 
