NAGPUR: After making a hype for implementing centralized admissions process (CAP) for all its undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses,   has dropped the plans to conduct it. However, NU is not at fault this time, as the Maharashtra government failed to lift its prohibition imposed in January. The admissions were supposed to be conducted on the lines of engineering and medical admissions as done by DTE and DMER respectively.

 At start of the year, Pune-based higher education director  , in a letter, had directed all state universities to temporarily stop the process. “Since they haven’t communicated anything to us in this regard, we’ve decided to drop the plans at least for the forthcoming academic session. We can’t go ahead with our process, since the government has prohibited CAP in all universities,” NU vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI.
 
 TOI in its report on January 5, had first published in detail on how the government asked all universities to put CAP process on hold, as it was supposed to design a common software for conducting it. The newspaper was also first one to report (On August 17 last year) on NU’s plans to conduct CAP that would exclude engineering, medical, pharmacy and law courses.
 
 NU had even constituted a panel under pro-VC   for framing modalities for CAP. Accordingly, he had submitted his report about a couple of months back. “We were fully ready to implement it, but can’t help. Now, we need to think over on how admissions to be conducted by the colleges could be monitored. We will come out with some new mechanism before admission season commences from June,” Kane said.
 
 The decision to conduct CAP for all UG and PG courses was taken after the government issued directives in this regard in October. Prior to that, NU Management Council took a decision in this regard during its meeting in August, with a view to save the students from harassment of private colleges and their hard-earned money.
 
 Even many complaints received against the colleges from students and parents, prompted NU to implement the CAP. It included illegal admissions racket by Hinganghat-based RS Bidkar College where NU saved its management by imposing only a fine of Rs1 lakh.
 
 Even the NU administration led by VC was in favour of CAP with an aim to curb malpractices by the private colleges and also put a brake on their exploitation during admissions.
 
 Another trigger behind NU’s move was mad rush for admissions to general courses like BCom and BSc last year, but only in renowned colleges like Dr Ambedkar, Shivaji Science and Hislop. On other hand, lesser known colleges struggle to fill up their seats. NU had to twice appeal to the government to increase seats of the top colleges to accommodate the students, who throng these courses while showing a back to professional faculties.
 
