CHENNAI: Farm wells are among the first victims of urbanisation with locals bidding adieu to these   for want of space. But a 30-year-old initiative by a section of residents in   in the western suburbs to   is bearing fruit by arresting the depletion of the groundwater table, even as neighbouring localities are experiencing a drastic drop in water levels.. The private farm well, which was part of erstwhile jasmine fields, has turned into a precious source of water for residents. Water from the 42-foot-deep well with a circumference of 23 feet is distributed among members of the  . 

 T Ravindranathan, joint secretary of the association, said that the farmwell has come bution to members of the association whose domestic wells have dried up,“ said V Ragunathan, another resident. Sandwiched between in handy to counter water shortage. “When our layout was created in the early 1980s, we wanted to maintain the well as a resource for future water needs. Hence, we decided to protect and preserve it,“ he said.
 
 The well was carved out as a separate plot in the layout, with residents contributing collectively to maintain it. This has come as a huge relief during a water crisis like the present one.
 
 While water levels are falling in Pozhichallur, like elsewhere in the city , groundwater at Viman Nagar is only 30 feet below.
 
 “The well helps maintain groundwater levels in areas nearby . Apart from this, water available in the well is transferred to a water tank through a motor for distri Pallavaram and Anakaputhur, the Pozhichallur village panchayat had five such large wells. However, a couple of them have disappeared due to shrinking agricultural activities and mushrooming residential plots. Ragunathan says neighbouring colonies would not have felt the pinch of water scarcity had farm wells been maintained.
 
 “A private farm well of similar size was closed to make way for a parking lot in the locality. If action was initiated to preserve it, those residents would not have to worry about depleting groundwater levels,“ he said.“The local panchayat distributes water through the public water system once every fortnight.“
 
