Model-turned-actress  , who was once a guest at the   in Los Angeles and entertained by publisher   in all his flamboyant glory, was on Instagram shortly after the iconic founder of   magazine died on Wednesday at 91.

 “A true visionary who chose to not conform to the dogma set by self-proclaimed guardians of society, but instead followed his bliss by acting on his #excitement consistently,” wrote Sherlyn.
 
  
  
 
 In 2012, Sherlyn, of Dil Bole Hadippa! fame, became the first Indian woman to pose nude for the Playboy magazine. The actress had written to Hefner — who founded Playboy in 1953 — saying she wanted to do a cover shoot for the magazine.
 
 In less than a week, she recalled, “I heard from him in the affirmative.” Sherlyn described her experience at the Playboy mansion as “paid luxury vacation” where she was “pampered silly” by Hefner’s staff. When she first met Hefner, he was sitting in his trademark robe, “which I found very funny”, said Sherlyn. “He was pretty amazed with my English and refused to believe I was an Indian,” she recalled. Sherlyn then explained to Hefner that “Indians speak impeccable English”.
 
 While Sheryln didn’t have any strong opinion of Hefner before meeting him, his offscreen persona, she said, was a far cry from his public image. She was particularly struck by his calmness. 
 
 “He was shy and very softspoken,” she said. He was 86. “I found him to be a thorough gentleman, one who knows how to treat a lady with respect, warmth and benevolence,” said Sherlyn, who also met two of Hefner’s young, “drop dead gorgeous” girlfriends at that time, “who thoroughly enjoyed being the objects of his attention”.
 
 Sherlyn not only got a taste of Hefner’s vast interest in Hollywood films, filmmakers, actors and actresses, but also returned with a souvenir. “He gave me a hand-written note with encouraging words to explore my highest potential as an artiste,” she said. Sherlyn spent the next 10 days shooting at the Playboy Mansion, which was “palatial and splendid with breath-taking architecture, greenery and wildlife”. She stayed in quarters exclusively designed for non-American celebrities.
 
 “The cover shoot was one of the most liberating experiences of my life. Barring the photographer, everybody in the team was a young woman. No one looked at me as an object, but as a spiritual being in a beautiful, exotic body,” said Sherlyn, adding he’d like to remember Hefner as a “trailblazer”.
 
 
