KOLKATA: For a change, it was a happy ending for England on Sunday at the   where they had lost the World T20 final to West Indies in April last year. The Englishmen tasted their first victory on the tour and prevented a whitewash by India, beating the hosts by five runs in the third and final ODI.
The edge-of-the-seat thriller on Sunday also saw England register their maiden win in an ODI here even though India took the series 2-1.
 
 India ran out of luck after getting out of the jail twice in Pune and Cuttack. The script unfolded on the lines of the first two ODIs. India were reduced to 133 for four while chasing 322 for victory. But unlike the last two matches, nobody was able to stay till the end to take the team home on Sunday.
 
 India, however, can take a lot of heart from the manner in which two of their relatively inexperienced players -   and Hardik Pandya - battled hard and almost took the team home.
 
 With the top-five back in the hut, Jadhav and Pandya produced an adrenaline-pumping sixth-wicket stand of 104 runs in 13.5 overs to take India within sniffing distance of an improbable victory .Needing 16 runs to win off the last over, Jadhav began with a flourish, hitting a six and four over extra-cover off Chris Woakes. But Woakes came back strongly to bowl two dot balls and then had Jadhav caught by Sam Billings at deep point. Needing to hit a six off the last ball, Bhuvneshwar Kumar failed to connect, leaving England deserving victors.
 
 Jadhav, the hero of India's victory in Pune, was reduced to a tragic hero after his 75-ball 90 failed to clinch the deal. He had to remain satisfied with the Man-of-the-Series award. Pandya, who has fitted into the role of an all-rounder nicely, made a brisk 43-ball 56 with four boundaries and two sixes.
 
 Pandya was earlier instrumental in restricting England, who were sent in to bat by skipper   after he won the toss. Pandya claimed three for 49 in his 10 overs, but a late charge by   and Woakes saw England post a very competitive 321 for eight.
 
 Stokes, who was carted for four sixes by Carlos Brathwaite in the last over of the WT20 final here, redeemed himself with a fine all-round show that saw him make an unbeaten 57 and take three wickets for 63 runs. He was Man of the Match.
 
 India's opening woes continued as Ajinkya Rahane, coming in place of Shikhar Dhawan, was bowled by a David Willey beauty in the second over of the innings. After KL Raul all fell cheaply, skipper Kohli and Yuvraj Singh steadied the innings with a 65-run stand for the third wicket.
 
 After Kohli departed for 55 and Yuvraj was caught at deep midwicket by Billings off Liam Plunkett for 45, the stage was set for MS Dhoni to play the finish role once more. Dhoni found boundaries at will in making a quickfire 25 but once he fell to Jake Ball, the Indian chase floundered. Earlier, England openers Jason Roy and Billings took time to settle down before opening up to add 98 runs off 104 balls. Roy reached his third successive half-century, but fell to Ravindra Jadeja. England recovered through a run-a-ball 84run third-wicket stand between skipper   and Jonny Bairstow, who replaced injured Joe Root. But with Pandya sending back Morgan, Bairstow and Jos Buttler in quick succession, it was left to Stokes and Woakes to give the England innings substance.
 
