Pune:   investigators on Wednesday stumbled upon 11   bearing the   ( ) name during their ongoing   into the week-old email   case. The police will now probe the   in the case.

 The city cybercrime branch had arrested two brothers from Jalandhar in Punjab on February 3 for allegedly spoofing emails of business houses located in different parts of India with the intention of cheating these companies.
 
 Initially, it was said that the duo had created around 40,000 fake domain names which bore similarities with the names of different companies. Now, the number has reached 88,218, of which 116 domains have been found operating out of Pakistan. Eleven of these 116 domains bear the IS name.
 
 A team headed by senior police inspector Sunil Pawar and police inspector Radhika Phadke had arrested the brothers, Hargurunaj Karamsingh Vijaysingh (20) and Parbhanaj (25), for creating fake   accounts and sending them to unsuspecting clients of the companies in question. “The emails would offer a bank account number through which the brothers would siphon off the clients’ money,” Pawar said.
 
 The brothers would offer to resell the domains while posing as operators for a Nigeria-based company. “They sold fake domains to several people in Nigeria and other countries. We are tracking down the locations from where these domains are being operated. We are checking how these domain names were sold to people based in Pakistan and how the IS name appears in some domains,” Pawar said.
 
 Of the 88,218 domains, 30,875 are being operated from Nigeria while 48,256 have been deleted. “Our assessment shows that 30,471 domains are still active in different parts of India and abroad,” Pawar said, adding that the brothers had hired cloud space to create and register the fake domains.
 
 The police also found that many of the fake domains had been registered in the names of banks, financial institutions, pornographic websites, tax offices in India and other countries, army and military, e-commerce websites and government offices.
 
 Pawar said Parbhanaj has done his masters in computer applications while Hargurunaj had completed his 12th standard. “While pursuing his postgraduate studies from a university, Parbhanaj came in contact with many students from north Africa from whom he learned about online frauds. He started his own office in Jalandhar eight years ago,” Pawar said.
 
 
