PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has roped in the Medical Council of India ( ) and the   to prevent heatwave deaths,   director-general   told TOI on Tuesday.

 IMD recently began sharing its heatwave bulletins with the MCI, which the latter will use to treat patients affected by heatwave. The MCI will also prepare an inventory on heat wave-related illnesses and mortalities from this year, creating a structured database of heat wave-related morbidity in the country.
 
 Ramesh, who was in the city on Tuesday to inaugurate a training workshop on lightning and extreme events, said in 2015, devastating heatwaves in India resulted in numerous deaths. “Vulnerable states in South India therefore prepared selective plans to prevent mortality and morbidity associated with heatwaves. Consequently in 2016, there was a 40-50% reduction in such cases in those states,” Similar action plans will also be prepared by the Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC) with the help of the Maharashtra government,” said Ramesh.
 
 In 2015, heatwaves in the country killed more than 2,300 people, making it the fifth highest number of such deaths in the history of the world. Most of the deaths occurred in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Odisha and Bihar.
 
 MCI and   have also been involved in IMD’s efforts to tackle life-threatening heatwaves in the country. “We recently began sharing our bulletins with MCI, which has close to 1,700 chapters across the country. These bulletins in turn will be shared by MCI with all 1,700 chapters, where incoming patients will be checked for heat stress and other morbidities associated with heatwaves. Once they start receiving such patients, a structured database will be created,” he said.
 
 Similar inventories will be created for vector-borne diseases that spread due to climatic and environmental conditions.
 
 “The Red Cross, meanwhile, will be picking one district in each state in the country where IMD volunteers will train volunteers from Red Cross through the platform ‘Climate Outlook Forum’. Our volunteers would teach them how product information on heatwave and other climate information could be translated, apart from training them on conditions such as heat stress, dehydration, precautions, do’s and don’t’s,” said Ramesh.
 
 He added that this information will then be disseminated by Red Cross to districts vulnerable to heatwave.
 
 Naval officers felicitated
 
 IMD on Tuesday felicitated senior officers of the Indian navy and the   in recognition of their crew members’ performance across 35 ships for the period 2015-16. As many as 17 ships were presented excellence awards, eight ships got certificates of merit and an additional 10 ships got merit certificates for encouragement. The IMD recruits ships into its Voluntary Observing Fleet (IVOF), through six port meteorological offices — Kolkata, Visakhapatnam, Chennai, Kochi, Goa and Mumbai. IVOF comprises ships from the mercantile navy, Indian Navy as well as foreign ships. Meteorological observations from the oceanic area are collected on a real time basis for operational forecasting.
 
