Tehatta: A day after the Iraqi foreign minister declared that he wasn’t sure whether the 39 Indians missing from Mosul were alive, shivers ran down the spines of a family in Nadia’s Tehatta.

 Khokon Sikdar, the family’s main breadwinner, has been missing from Mosul since June 2014, when his wife Namita and their children last spoke to him from their home in Ilsamari village.
 
 Though it is not known whether Khokon is among the abducted, the 39 Indians also had their last contact with their kin back home in June 2014. IS, incidentally, took control of Mosul from the Iraqi government that month.
 
 On Monday, visiting Iraqi foreign minister Ibrahim-al-Jaafari told the media in New Delhi after talks with his Indian counterpart Sushma Swaraj that there was no “substantial evidence” with Baghdad to prove whether the 39 men were alive. His comments came three weeks after Iraqi government forces liberated Mosul from Islamic State.
 
 Namita, however, is hopeful her husband will return home. “I have spent three years knocking on doors. I have written to the Nadia district magistrate, the chief minister and the external affairs minister but got no response. I still want to go to Delhi if Sushma Swaraj grants me an audience. I want her to hear my appeal to get my husband back home safely,” she told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Samartika Das, another Teha-tta resident, is also missing. Over the last three years, his wife Dipali and Namita have appealed to Bengal BJP leaders at the party’s state headquarters to take up their cases with the Centre, particularly Swaraj. Namita recalled Dipali telling her about her last contact with Samartika in June 2014.
 
 An ICDS worker who makes about Rs 2,800 a month, Namita is facing financial hardship since she stopped receiving remittances from Khokon three years ago. 
 
 “Relatives are helping me foot my children’s school and college fees,” she said. Namita’s daughter Rita is a first-year student of Nadia’s Betai College while her son Abhro is in Class I at Ramakrishna Mission, Rahara.
 
 
