AMRITSAR: Punjab Congress has welcomed the Supreme Court’s ruling that political parties can’t seek votes on the basis of religion and caste, and demanded the   (EC) to “ban” the SAD and BJP from participating in elections.

 A day after court’s ruling, Punjab Congress vice-president Raj Kumar Verka described it on Tuesday as “a historic decision”. “It will prevent political parties dividing society in the name of religion,” he said.
 
 He said the SAD had played politics in the name of religion and a Congress delegation would meet chief election commissioner Nasim Zaidi to seek a ban on it. “In my view, neither Akalis nor the BJP have the right to contest elections, following the SC’s decision. After all, both of them invoke religious sentiments to seek votes from the public,” he said.
 
 Verka said his party was in touch with legal experts to challenge the eligibility SAD and BJP leaders to contest the elections. He claimed that Akalis often referred to the concept of ‘Miri Piri’ (temporal and spiritual) in Sikhism, but exploited sentiments of common voters in the name of religion.
 
 Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, a former BJP leader who switched to Congress, said it was good that the SC had intervened. “Leaders would normally brainwash gullible people in the name of religion. Voters should judge a leader from the manifesto, not the caste or religion he or she belonged to,” she said.
 
 Advocating that there shouldn’t be any interference of politics in religion or vice versa, she said the apex court’s judgement would prove to be a milestone in Indian politics. Hailing the SC’s ruling,   (SGPC) former member Advocate Jaswinder Singh said, “If a political party seeks vote in the name of a particular religion, it means it is spreading hatred for other religions. This ruling will put a check on it.”
 
 However, he said, the detailed SC ruling on the subject was awaited. He said it was yet to be seen what was the provision for people of a particular religion having mentioned in a manifesto of a particular political party about the concessions or schemes for them. He said by and large, the ruling would bring out the true sense of democracy in the Indian political system.
 
 
