BHATINDA/MUKTSAR/MANSA: In the middle of poll frenzy, 48-year-old Wakeel Singh sits glumly at   in Gidderbaha constituency of Punjab’s Muktsar district. He lost his father to prostate cancer just six days ago.

 A little far from him, 42-year-old Harchand Kaur in   village of Bathinda Rural seat, too passed away, leaving behind her teenaged sons. Her husband had died of oral cancer before last elections.
 
 Between Wakeel’s father and Harchand, there are at least 109 such bereaved families, who have lost their kin in Punjab’s Malwa belt — known for cancer deaths — in January so far. In most poll speeches, leaders talk about cancer in this region.
 
 Which is why candidates like Aam Aadmi Party’s   from Bathinda Rural, Raja Warring in Gidderbaha and Ajit Inder Mofar in Sardulgarh are spending more time visiting cancer-struck families.
 
 “None of the debt-ridden farmers have the initial amount to pay at the hospitals or that can be covered under the Akali Dal’s limited scheme. Even the free passes for buses can’t be used as only Badal-run transport operates here. Like Delhi, we will bring doctors and radiologists right at your doorstep to check this problem,” Rupinder tells a gathering.
 
 According to the government’s own records, between the last elections in 2012 and the 2017 polls, 36,897 people have been detected with cancer. This includes 27,000 from the Malwa belt that has a massive share of 69 seats and plays a decider in the forming of government in Punjab.
 
 “Since 2002, I have only travelled to Bikaner in Rajasthan by train. Neither there is awareness scheme, nor any district or health officers from government visit us to help us know,” says Neela Singh, a Ravidasia.
 
 Akali Dal’s candidates like Parminder Dhindsa and Jeet Mohinder Sidhu like to remind voters of Punjab chief minister Parkash Badal’s ‘Mukh Mantri Cancer Rahat Kosh Yojana’ with a free treatment up to Rs 1.5 lakh and upcoming AIIMS in Bathinda and PGI in Sangrur. However, villagers from Mansa, Bathinda, Muktsar and Sangrur say the empanelled hospitals rarely entertain patients.
 
 “The main issue is the prosperity of Badal family and their hotel firms. This government has neither released money for most of the cancer-struck families nor where suicides took place since last 10 years as they are facing a debt of Rs 1.35 lakh crore,” says Warring.
 
