SAIFAI:   Yadav does not talk much these days. Sitting quietly at a roadside tea stall in Saifai village, the 90-year-old wrestling guru of Samajwadi Party patriarch  , is averse to any questions thrown at him. “In se Netaji ke parivar ke baare mein kuch na poochhiye…in ke dimaagh mein garmi chadh jaati hai aur yeh beemaar pad jaate hain (Ask nothing from him about Mulayam Singh Yadav’s family feud...it incenses him and he takes ill),’’ said one of his accomplices.

 Darshan Singh has been undisputed gram pradhan of Saifai for more than 50 years and his state of mind is an indication of what’s brewing in the Yadav belt ever since a feud broke out between UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal, five months ago.
 
 On Monday, only an hour ago, BSP chief Mayawati flew into Etawah and raked up the squabble in the SP camp to position her party as the only political force to challenge the might of BJP. Mayawati, especially, has been attempting to fuel the squabble by accusing Mulayam of being driven by ‘putra moh’ to sideline his brother Shivpal and restricting him to one constituency.
 
 “Yeh sab rajnaitik log parivar ko ladwana chahte hain…(These political leaders want to create a rift in the family),’’ said Deputy Singh Yadav, Mulayam’s cousin. “Thodi bahhut kheench-taan hoti hai har pariwar mein …yahan bhi hui…par ab sab theek hai (confrontation is bound to take place in families and it happened here too but now everything is okay),’’ he said.
 
 Saifai happens to part of Jaswantnagar assembly constituency which never slipped out of SP’s domain. Mulayam’s brother Shivpal has been representing the constituency since 1996. Before him, the seat has been represented by Mulayam since 1967 when he was with Sangatha Socialist Party.
 
 Shivpal is back in the fray, amid growing apprehension amongst Saifai voters. The senior SP leader has been cutting a lonely figure after being sacked by Akhilesh as cabinet minister a few months ago and has been voicing his anguish against Akhilesh persistently, although without taking his name.
 
 Most people in Saifai concede to a lingering apprehension in the wake of a Yadav-versus-Yadav narrative but maintain that everything will settle soon, at least in Saifai. “We don’t know about other places but everything is okay here…SP will emerge out victorious notwithstanding the bad blood that happened in the last few months,’’ says Ravi Yadav, a first year science graduate and a young voter.
 
 The locality housing the residence of Mulayam and his grandson, MP Tej Pratap Yadav, is a picture of complete silence. But for a few posters of Akhilesh appealing voters to ensure victory of SP in the assembly elections, not much political activity is seen.
 
 “Kuchh bhi ho…Bade Netaji (Mulayam) ka jo hukum hoga wahi hoga (Mulayam’s order is supreme),’’ says Deputy. The term `Bade Netaji’ about Mulayam may not be mistaken after Akhilesh replaced his powerful father to get hoisted on SP’s throne in January. So is Akhilesh now ‘The Netaji’? “Uh toh abhi ladka hai…koi netaji jitna bada nahi ho sakta (He is still very young. No one can match Mulayam’s stature),’’ said Deputy. “Hum to usey abhi bhi Tipu (Akhilesh’s nickname) keh ke bulaate hain,’’ he adds, flashing a smile. And what about Shivpal? “Wo toh chhote Mantriji hain…humesha se netaji ke saath the aur rahenge…chaahein jo ho (Shivpal will always be by Mulayam’s side come what may),’’ sums up Yadav.
 
