KOLKATA: The   said they have finally found “specific leads” in the statements recorded by the   employees and executives in the past five days. The police are probing extortion and medical negligence charges against   that have been lodged after the   

 Police sources said that they are investigating “loopholes in statements” for which some officials of the hospital might be asked to visit the police station again. Sources said it was the Apollo’s billing section executives who will be summoned in the next couple of days to record statements. At least two more doctors of Apollo, along with a billing section executive, were asked to record their statements on Tuesday. Police said so far a total of nine doctors and several other executives have recorded their statements.
 
 “There are several questions which the Apollo senior executives have skipped. Some have clearly stated that the day-to-day handling of billing is handled by juniors, who claimed that they had merely followed hospital guidelines. It is this gap that we want both sides to explain,” claimed a senior investigating officer.
 
 Police sources said that they are investigating the role of some officials who are not visible in the   footage. “We want to map the exact role of each official on that floor. Merely recording a statement does not make anyone a suspect,” claimed a Lalbazar officer after allegations arose that there was “witch-hunt” against Apollo doctors.
 
 Meanwhile, the three-member committee set up by Swasthya Bhawan to zero down on the specific lapses got hold of the report on the findings drafted by the previous panel. 
 
 “We have just received copy of the report that was submitted to the health secretary. We need to go through the report and look for specifics. Nothing much has moved beyond this,” said a committee member.
 
 A six-member probe committee on Monday had submitted a 12-page report. The report broadly pointed out medical negligence, tampering of documents and delay in discharging Roy. The second committee has been asked to pin-point specifics. The three-member probe team is expected to submit its report latest by Friday.
 
 
