THANE: A walk down   forest during   season brings its share of respite for residents as a number of flowers blossom during this time of the year. While most of the greenery around the 65sq km deciduous forest seems to be turning brown and withering away, the dry season seems to have also given life to a whole new world of green zone.

 From the yellowish-green Ukshi flowers to the petite white Karvanda flower buds, the forest has been blooming with a variety of flower species. The Ukshi flowers bloom between February and March. As these flowers store nectar, they are favourite among bees. So, the forest has been literally buzzing with a lot of activity.
 
 “While the forest area is at its peak in terms of bio-diversity during monsoon, this season also plays a host to a number of lovely and vibrant flowering plant species. The fact that these plants bloom despite the lack of water, high temperatures and so on is one of the many mysteries of nature,” said a forest official. Due to the flowering of these summer flowers, the number of birds and insects also increase.
 
 Botanists studying the   and   in these eco-sensitive belt point out that these vibrant plants are essential for the functioning of an entire ecological cycle as they attract insects, bees, etc, who help the pollination process and lay the foundation for the birth of many more plants during the monsoon season, which follows soon after this.
 
 Yatin Gholap, a Mumbai-based naturalist and botanist, said, “Ideally, the changes in seasons are estimated and understood only after the observation of nature. The blooming of shrubs and plants—including Ukshi, Karvanda, Charole, ghost tree and so on are the clear indicators of the onset of summer.” “These vibrant flowers attract pollinators which, while moving from one flower to another, carry pollen seeds with them. This helps in the reproduction of flowering plants which are the main sources of food for people and wildlife alike. These plants then multiply in monsoon,” he said.
 
 Ideally, the changes in seasons are estimated and understood only after the observation of nature. The blooming of shrubs and plants—including Ukshi, Karvanda, Charole, ghost tree and so on are the clear indicators of the onset of summer
 
 
