DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) directed the chief secretary on Monday to ensure that all dilapidated school buildings, especially in the hills, are renovated during the summer vacation and special funds be allocated for the same.
  
  Taking suo moto cognizance of monsoon disrupting studies in various schools with dilapidated buildings and ramshackle furniture, the commission said that tin roofs should be replaced with proper roofs because they are often carried away by strong winds and pose threat to lives of students.
  
  Taking a strict note of government apathy, the commission in its direction to the chief secretary, said, “A school student lost his life as the wall of the toilet collapsed last year and many others were injured in isolated incidents in different districts. You must be aware of all these incidences. But till date concrete action hasn’t been taken to improve the condition of schools, and thereby, education.”
  
  Chairman, SCPCR, Yogendra Khanduri, told TOI, “The students in hills are suffering due to failure of the education system. There have been reports of students attending classes during the monsoon under umbrellas due to leaky roofs. They are unable to receive education due to shoddy infrastructure and this is the responsibility of the education department. We hope chief secretary   will take up the matter on priority and we will not hear about shutting down of schools or any untoward incidents this monsoon.”
  
  In 2010, 18 children in a   lost their lives when the building collapsed after heavy rainfall. According to information available with the education department, there are 1,053 primary school buildings in Uttarakhand which have been deemed unfit and unsafe. In   district alone, 22 schools were identified by the district administration in March 2016 as those requiring repair.
  
  Additional project director of   cell, Mukul Sati, said, “Our priority is to repair school buildings which have been identified as requiring renovation by the heads of district education. A proposal to seek funds for the same has been sent to the Centre.”
