AURANGABAD: Within a less than a year of its announcement, the Eco Task Force (ETF) battalion is set to become reality in Aurangabad and the region with an aim to improve the below-average green cover on a war-footing.

 The battalion, which is actually a part of Eco-Development Forces (EDF) scheme established in 1980s and implemented through the ministry of defence for ecological restoration of terrains, was rendered difficult either due to severe degradation, remote location or difficult law and order situation. It’s proposed base camp was somewhere near   here.
 
 A P Girhepunje, deputy conservator of forest (territorial), Aurangabad, said the site for setting up the base camp has been identified following a joint visit by the officials from the ministry of defence and the forest department, among others. 
 
 As the land is being identified for base camp, further formalities such as getting clearance from the revenue department would be acquired shortly. Around 100 acres of area near the proposed camp would be brought under afforestation, he said. 
 
 Girhepunje said green cover would be increased in the region in phases with the help of ETP battalion through five-year plannings in specific locations. The setting up of the ETF battalion requires one-time establishment and operational charges and it would be borne by the Centre and the state through mutual understanding and laid down norms, he said. 
 
 Admitting that Aurangabad and the region as a whole have far less percentage of forest cover as compared to the state’s, forest department officials said the ETF battalion would serve as an effective measure . 
 
 Officials said Aurangabad has nearly 9% green cover that largely includes sanctuary areas. Still, it is considerably less as compared to the state average of 20%. On the other hand, different parts of Marathwada have less than 5 % green cover. 
 
 As compared to Vidarbha and Western Maharashtra, Marathwada is believed to have very low percentage of total forest area as against total geographical area. As per last years state economic survey of Maharashtra , the state as a whole has around 61,573 square-kilometer forest area. 
 
 It may be noted that ToI had last year on June 17 reported that the Centre and the state were jointly mulling setting up ETF battalion for Marathwada. 
 
 Maharashtra forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had held a meeting with defence minister   in New Delhi last year, during which the former had expressed a strong desire for constituting a green army in drought-prone Marathwada with the Centre’s help. The initiative has been coming up on the lines of ETF battalion getting set up at few territories in Uttarakhand, Assam and Delhi.
 
 Meanwhile, environmentalists have expressed satisfaction over the ETF battalion becoming reality within a year of its announcement, but at the same advised for certain dos and donts while carrying out afforestation in Marathwada.
 
 “The green cover in Auragabad and the region should be increased by strictly keeping in mind the varied type of soils and atmosphere here. The drought-prone region should witness plantation of deciduous trees and shrubs as they could withstand tough conditions, said   of Shrusti Samvardhan Sanstha.
 
