I quickly paid the auto driver, helped Keyah climb down the auto rickshaw and walked towards the gate with a single   bag that I had packed in haste before leaving. I avoided looking at Reena boudi (sister-in-law in Bengali), Mousumi, our   and our little garden. Instead I peeped into my bag till I reached the door pretending to be looking for keys. On reaching the door, I quickly unlocked it.
 
  And he turned his chair to look at me. There was the mischievous smile I missed all these days. It said it all! It took him seven years but he had done it finally.
  
  He thought it was an absurd demand to want to see him the minute I reached Durgapur. According to him I was the modern woman, who could do everything on her own whether it is looking after the house, Keyah, cooking or going out to work. In fact, he said he was learning from me. He wanted to be as much at ease with household chores as with his office work. He always said he wanted to prepare something for me when I returned from work just like I did for him. It was besides the point that he could never, for I came home early from work.
  
  Every year a night before I returned from Siliguri, we fought over this same thing. He wanted me to just take an auto and come home while he experiments with some dish for me to feast on. And I detested that. I wanted to see him the minute I reached Durgapur. I have no sane reason(s) for it.
  
  Fortunately, I was used to getting my way around. Sometimes I would cry and push him to give in. At other times, I would play the Keyah card, saying she preferred his bike over the auto.
  
  But this time he won. I could do nothing about it. And that’s why he was standing there beaming.
  
  It irritated me to no end. I could sense a lump rising up my throat. Why would he do this to me when he knew I wanted to see him first thing after a vacation without him? Was he like Reena boudi’s  , who never cared about her feelings? Why modern women are not supposed to feel for their husbands, is it?
  
  Didn’t he have the same condition for me when he used to come to see me in Kolkata before we got married? He wanted me to open the door for him when he came to my house. Once he even reprimanded me for not opening the door for him. My mother was near the door and so she opened it when he rang the bell. I stood right behind her so that he could see me. I could not have told my mother why I leap to open the door each time he comes. But he would not listen to any of those and returned to Durgapur without lunch.
  
  That day the lunch was prepared by me and on the menu were some of his favourite dishes. He said he had to meet a friend who was returning by the 1 o’ clock train to Delhi. No amount of insistence worked that day. I ensured it never happened again even though he was a “modern man”.
  
  Should I also behave like that today?
  
  If it was not for his million dollar smile, I would have actually taught him a lesson today.
  
  My eyes were brimming with joy on seeing him. I missed him like hell all these days. Just as I was about to run into his arms, I felt a gentle tap on my shoulder and he vanished. I turned around wondering when did he go behind me and saw Reena boudi and Mousumi.
  
  As I collected my thoughts, I could hear Keyah call out to him,”Baba, Baba, Baba…. Babaaaaaaa.”
  
  “Maa, baba kothay? (Mother, where is father?),” she screamed out. “Ekhono othe ni ghum theke? Shey din theke ghumachhe? (He’s still not up. Is he still sleeping since that day?,” she asked again. I was jolted back to the present.
  
  Whenever Keyah enquired about him in the last 15 days she was told her father was in Durgapur. For a good part of these 15 days, even I believed this. Today, Mousumi ran into the house to tell her that he is out of town and would take time to come back. I was also yearning to believe it.
  
  That day, she was told that he was so deep in sleep that he had to be picked up by her kakas and mamas to be taken to his office. However, I knew that wasn’t true.
  
  Just then Keyah came out of the house and I had to control myself.
  
  On that day, when Rabin da called to inform us of his accident, I had held on to hope for 12 hours till we reached Durgapur from his village. I also had to show strength so that his parents don’t feel weak. When Rabin da finally broke the news I had to collect myself and rush to his parents’ aid.
  
  I could again sense a lump rising up my throat. Reena boudi held my hand tight as I turned to step into our house. Not sure if I will be able to ever accept it as only my house into which he had led me holding my hand seven years ago.
  
  
  
