CHENNAI: For the first time in three years, the financial services sector has beaten the software sector in median gross hourly wages, according to the Monster Salary Index. In 2014 and 2015, IT services remained the top player with median hourly wages at Rs 343.9 and Rs 337.3 while BFSI followed at Rs 307.9 for both years. In 2016, the index reveals that BFSI is the highest paying sector with median hourly wage at Rs 433 while IT services took second spot at Rs 386.8. 

 “It comes as no surprise that BFSI is leading in terms of emoluments. It has been the flavour of the season for investors in the last two years and like any high growth sector, they would hire the best talent which comes at a cost,” said Rituparna Chakraborty, cofounder and EVP,  .
 
 Estimates from HR firm   show that the cost to the company for hiring a BFSI resource (including traditional and captives) has increased by 4-7%, compared to 2016. 
 
 On the other hand, tradtional IT services demand a 3% lower cost to the company, compared to last year, while the new age tech IT employees who are paid 10-15% more.
 
 “In the BFSI sector, there are has been a lot of bifurcation of roles, which has resulted in demand for specialists. With good talent being low in supply, companies are paying more for specific roles. At times, they are willing to trade of less experience for specialised skills,” said BN Thammaiah, MD, Kelly Services, India. He adds that in traditional IT, skill sets have remained the same to a large extent which has kept the salaries constant.
 
 While BFSI has taken the lead, this is being attributed to the increased investor interest and push the sector has been witnessing. 
 
 “The tech sector has made the switch from an overseas focused services target to a (domestic) consumption focused target market - and BFSI and other tech enabled or tech driven, domestic consumption focused sectors will boom. Right now, it is more a reflection of the boom in banking rather than that of IT services,” said Sanjay Swamy, serial tech entrepreneur and managing partner, Prime Venture Partners.
 
 HR experts add that it is professionals in BFSI with expertise in new age tech like data sciences, artifical intelligence are the ones who are driving the increase in wages. Pune based   has about 60 employees of which 40 are developers or technologists. 
 
 “Players like ours are in the cusp of financial services and technology. A sector like fintech has been seeing large amount of growth and will attract better talent. At times, cost of talent is not as important as quality,” said  , cofounder, EarlySalary.
 
 After BFSI and IT, construction and technical consultancy followed with an hourly wage of Rs 288.7, legal, market consultancy at Rs 277.1, transport and logistics at Rs 257.4 and healthcare at Rs 242.5. Manufacturing was the lowest paying sector Rs 211.7.
 
 
