BASANTI: An alleged intra-Trinamool   in the early hours of Monday left at least eight people from the two rival party factions injured in Basanti, South 24 Parganas. Bombs were hurled while shops and houses belonging to supporters of both factions were damaged. Though police confirmed the attacks and bombing, no one has been arrested yet. 

 Locals said the injured were avoiding going to hospital fearing arrest.
 
 Basanti is no stranger to political strife and violence. Several clashes have been witnessed, sometimes between RSP and CPM, then between   and Trinamool and now between rival Trinamool factions. The area witnessed five political clashes last year alone. Of late, rivalry between factions led by Trinamool MLAs   of Canning East constituency and Jayanta Naskar of Basanti has allegedly sparked violence in the area. Clashes allegedly intensified since Saukat’s recent elevation as president of the South 24 Parganas Yuva  . On Monday, trouble broke out when supporters of one of the factions attacked those of the other around 3am. 
 
 Naskar told TOI: “I am with the Trinamool since the party’s inception. Some people who joined our party from the CPM and brought goons along with them are trying to dominate us. This creates confusion in the locality which, in turn, sparks clashes.”
 
 Naskar loyalist Selim Sardar said: “Truckloads of Yuva Trinamool supporters reached Basanti and attacked us from three sides — Purba Nebukhashi, Sirishtala and Chaprakhali. They were led by Amanullah Laskar, block Yuva Trinamool president.” Sardar further alleged: “Saukat instigated the attack. They attacked homes of six of our supporters, including panchayat member Zakir Sheikh.” Basanti block Trinamool president   said, “They are often creating trouble here over small issues. On Sunday, they organized a meeting to discuss preparations for the July 21 rally in Kolkata. Homes and shops of the partymen who did not attend that meeting were attacked.”
 
 Denying all allegations, Saukat said, “The attacks and counter-attacks were by rival criminal gangs. The party has no connection with these clashes. I have asked police to take action in accordance with law.” SDPO Canning Dhruba Das, who has jurisdiction over Basanti, said: “Basanti witnessed group clashes since early on Monday. The rival groups also hurled bombs at each other. I went to the area with a large force. Peace has been restored and we are patrolling the area.”
 
