Who doesn’t know the “Open Sesame” command given by Alibaba, in the story of “Ali Baba and Forty Thieves”, to the cave that held immense treasure within itself. We have never questioned the sagacity in the command. Had we ever paused to wonder why the cave opened to only “Open Sesame” and not any other grain, we would have realized the profound wisdom it expounded.

 
 Traditionally   oil has been used in households in India, especially in the south, for cooking as well as cosmetic purposes. It is named “
 ” in Tamil, which literally means “the good oil”. All ancient civilizations including the Indus Valley Civilization, the Assyrians and the Egyptians incorporated sesame and its oil in some form or the other in their daily lives
 . 
 
 Native to India, sesame has one of the highest oil contents of any seed
 . Research has confirmed that sesame seeds, whether white or black are a great source of protein with 4.7 grams per 30 grams
 . In addition to that they are rich in minerals like copper, manganese, calcium, iron and magnesium and vitamin B6
 . Zinc in sesame seeds and oil is essential to the production of collagen that lends elasticity to our skin. A strong source of fiber, it helps with better digestion
 . Phytic acid in sesame oil along with magnesium and phytosterols help fight cancer
 .
 
 Earlier tests have shown that Sesame, especially sesame oil, has antioxidant boosting properties that improve health. Clinical trials have proven that it relieves oxidative stress in people with hypertension, cholesterol and type-2 diabetes. Pre-clinical tests have also shown sesame oil to be effective in preventing atherosclerosis, a condition that disrupts the flow of blood due to narrowing of arteries
 . 
 
 Right from a beautiful, bouncy skin to a  , it helps the body regulate itself. It improves oral health, reduces blood pressure, helps in type-2 diabetes, protects against DNA damage from radiation, boosts bone health, lowers cholesterol and overall reduces anemia and stress
 . 
 
 Is it not a wonder that a seed, as small as the sesame, is a power-packed house of goodness and health!
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
