Renowned puppeteer   recently enthralled the children and adults alike with his Kathputli performance. Evoking the rustic images of   through  , music and its folklore at the Krishnakriti Festival, the puppeteer got the audience all nostalgic of the good ol’ days when televisions did not take over these ancient forms of story-telling. Reminiscing over the good times, Bhatt says, “Pehle humare purkho gao gao mein jaake sarpanch logose darkhwast karte the. Do charpai se stage ban jata tha, ek parda lagate the aur lalten ke batti se puppet show karte the. We were paid with grains, sarees or athanni – chauwanni rupiya. Us time pe aise hi aamdani hota tha.”
But the reality today is far from that. “Naam to hua, par income zyada kuch bada nahi; byas din guzarne ke liye kaafi hai. We still don’t have any property, we still live in the slums,” says the puppeteer, who lives in   in Delhi. “There are over 2,000 puppeteer families living in the colony, not even 20 per cent are practising puppetry. They have made their own Bhangra groups, music groups, etc. Even my son is not interested in puppetry because there’s no money in it. He has formed his own Bhangra group. Even within the community, people are now concentrating on educating their kids so that they get into stable professions. They learn puppetry too, but only to keep the art alive and do shows when they are free. With their attention divided, these kids will be far from perfection,” he laments.
 As if this was not bad enough, the 50-year-old puppeteer is under a threat of losing his home with forceful eviction of Kathputli colony by the   (DDA) to execute the redevelopment project in the area. “Recently, I found a few more houses destroyed. Kathputli colony is my birthplace. Our families settled in this place 15-20 years before I was born. This place was a jungle back then. Our ancestors cleared it, jupriya banai, baad mein pakke makan bhi bana liye. Yeh jagah humari honi chahiye. The government sold this land to the builders and they are now trying to shift us in a transit camp. I won’t move unless the directions comes in writing from the   because I have seen how people were deceived and were settled far away from the city with no hospitals, market, electricity or water. Janwar se bhi battar zindagi jeete hai. Around 300-400 families have shifted to transit camps with dreams of owning an apartment in a 14-15 floor building, but the rest of us are fighting for our rights,” he says.
 Despite all battles and struggle, Bhatt isn’t the kind to abandon his art. “Main jab tak zinda hoon, puppet ke alawa kuch nahi kar paunga. I was offered a well-paid job of a salesman in a handicrafts showroom, but I rejected it. When in Delhi, I make and sell puppets in different showrooms, to foreigners and bagpackers to meet the ends. Kabhi kabhi road pe bhi ghum lete hai puppet bechne ke liye, par aane wale generation yeh sab nhi karte. In a few years, there won’t be any professional puppeteers,” he says, on a rather worrisome parting note. 
 
