KOCHI: Sociologists are worried about the rise in crimes against women as they are unable to comprehend how this is possible in a much developed literate state like Kerala. Over the past 10 years,   cases have shot up from 500 in 2007 to 1,644 in 2016. From 2,604, the number of   cases has risen to 4,035.

 Criminologist James Vadackumchery said that despite stringent laws and strict punishment, the success rate of convictions is 25%. “It has gone up by 5% since Nirbhaya incident. The flaw lies in the investigation where evidence has to be collected scientifically. It has to start with proper medical examination. Forensic evidence collection is yet another crucial factor. If they are done improperly, they will not stand in court,” he said.
 
 The numbers show that rural areas are becoming more vulnerable and unsafe for women. For example, rape cases registered in Thiruvananthapuram city in 2016 was 66 while it was 138 in rural areas. Similarly in Ernakulam, the city reported 62 cases while it was 112 in rural areas. In Thrissur, city reported 46 cases while rural areas reported 103 cases.
 
 “We are becoming a model state for crime against women and children. Our social development indicators have been obliterated by crime rate,” said  , dean and administrator, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences.
 
 Moly Kuruvilla, who heads Centre for women studies at Calicut University, said that most children see their fathers treating mothers in a disrespectful manner. “This is repeated in their social behaviour which later transcends into such violence. We should teach women to be brave and cautious,” she added. For decades Kerala has been talking of women empowerment and liberation. I don’t know whether we should concentrate on sensitizing men or making women safer,” Joseph added.
 
 Former member of state women’s commission H   said: “The frightening thing is that people think that they can commit a crime and escape. Easy access to lots of money has affected the attitude of people.” 
 
 
