CHENNAI: Low platelet count, high fever and fatigue are the common symptoms of dengue, but infectious disease experts are now seeing these symptoms in people who test negative for dengue but are afflicted with influenza. While many required hospitalization, some died.

 Experts say flu is not uncommon at this time of the year when the heat is not intense enough to kill the virus, but they are surprised at the number of people requiring intensive care and life support. “Many need a ventilator and we have lost patients despite intensive care in the past few days,“ said Dr V Ramasubramanian, an infectious disease expert witrh  .
 
 Flu is a contagious and common illness caused by the influenza virus categorised broadly as A, B or C. Influenza A is the most common, of which  , is a variety. People can get the flu any time, but in Chennai, onset of the flu season is in late August and typically peaks between September and January.
 
 Sanjeev M, a 34-year-old IT professional who visited his doctor with severe respiratory tract infection and fe ver, was put on non-invasive ventilator and a lot of antibiotics for four days. “It was traumatic. But I was lucky because I wasn't too late,“ he said.
 
 In the past two days, more than 1,500 people have been admitted to hospitals with high fever, fatigue and body ache. The state health department has also opened fever clinics at peripheral hospitals and upgraded PHCs across the state. In Chennai, peripheral hospitals in Anna Nagar, KK Nagar, Tondiarpet, and Chrompet have outpatient unit equipment for a blood test.
 
 Several upgraded PHCs have also been equipped, said health minister C  . “Fever now is not a grin-and-bear-it situation.The feeling that you may be alright with one or two doses of paracetamol is responsible for most complications. We advise all people with fever to meet a doctor,“ he adds.
 
 The state does not have an accurate number of those affected by flu. “Admissions to the hospitals and those in intensive care are just a tip of the iceberg,“ said Dr  , a consultant at  . “Only people who are really sick even come to hospital. Unless we do a community survey, we will never know the real number,“ he said.
 
 A community-based survey can help policymakers decide on the vaccine based on the numbers, say doctors.The vaccine includes varieties of influenza A -both H1N1 and H3N2 -and influenza B offers protection against viral disease. Although it may not completely prevent illness, it can reduce the complications the disease may cause, they add.
 
