NEW DELHI: Inclusion is the very mandate of Right to Education Act. But only a handful of Delhi schools have any educators for differently-abled students. The number of schools is also shrinking, with more shutting down their special sections. The schools that take special students do so in very small numbers, leaving a majority to be home-schooled. Social inclusion for these children is a distant dream.

 Nishant, a 10-year-old child with AHDH, is going into depression. His grandmother, Sushmita (name changed), said he is conscious of his learning deficiencies, and gets pulled down by constant criticism of teachers.
 
 “His problem is writing. While everybody is copying notes in class, he roams around the room not knowing what to do. He can’t write because of memory issues. Teachers don’t know what to do with him,” said Sushmita.
 
 Instead, she said, the school has suggested that an attendant monitor him at all times. Called a shadow teacher, attendant can also be a parent. Kanika (name changed), mother of one such child, is his shadow teacher. Though happy that her son is taught at a mainstream school with regular children, she had to leave her job to give full attention to her four-year-old, even while in school.
 
 “It is very nice of the school to give the child a chance to be among his peers, but they also want someone to help him cope in class. I have to sit with him in class and break things down. It should be the job of the school, not the parent,” she said.
 
 Sushmita, however, highlighted that the problem is not just with the requirement of a shadow teacher, but that her grandson is taught the subject with the same techniques which are used for regular children, by teachers with no special training. “He has attention deficit, but is asked to sit in the same kind of rigorous exams as others. He is a special child, there needs to be a different approach here,” she complained.
 
 However, both parents are scared to bring out any issues to the schools, lest they ask them to shift their ward out. “I stay in Vasant Kunj, and there are so many schools here. But none of them have special educators. Even if they have them, the fee for special children is over 100% higher than that for regular children. I would rather send my child 15km away,” said Kanika.
 
 Though she is on a lookout for schools that will support her son the way he needs, she is scared that if criticised, the present school will just hand him his transfer certificate, like it has happened to several of her friends. “There is no accountability. It is almost like we are at their mercy,” she added.
 
 According to Manjir Gupta, president of Protection of the Rights of Differently Abled Children (PORDAC), an NGO, while it is still easier for schools to take in children with physical disabilities, those with intellectual challenges have fewer options in terms of mainstream schools.
 
 “The PWD Act mandates a student-teacher ratio of 4:1. These schools, if they do take special educators, will have to pay them either more or at least at par with other teachers of the school. It is an expenditure,” she said. She added that schools are obliged to take children under the Disadvantaged Group quota, but that amounts to barely 2 or 3 per 100.
 
 “Selection to schools under this quota is also based on a lucky draw. We cannot leave the fate of our children on that,” said Kanika.
 
 Gupta added that other than the quota, some schools take children but charge a higher fee. “But not everybody can pay for the special wing. Instead, parents are now taking their children to specialised NGOs and have made peace with that kind of exclusion,” said Gupta.
 
 The solution, she said, needs to be through an active engagement of the government with special needs students, starting with an audit.
 
 
