BENGALURU: “When the second generation borrowers lament that though I had given money for their education, they landed no jobs, I remind them that their mothers were illiterate when they made the brave choice of becoming entrepreneurs. They borrowed money to sustain their families. What stops the youngsters from becoming entrepreneurs?“ asked Nobel Laureate Prof   on Wednesday.

 The founder of  , a pioneering microfinance institution, shared his experiences at a packed auditorium at the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIMB). The event was organized by the   Centre for Entrepreneurial Learning ( ) under its social initiative on `Building bridges ­ social and capital'.
 
 Referring to his revolutionary model of lending money to women in villages of Bangladesh, Yunus said women were the first to drive away volunteers who went to spread the message. “I told my students who were in talks with the women that whenever a woman says no to a concept, it's not her but the history within her that is speaking.We need to peel it off and bring her out of the shell.“ A six-year struggle paid off with 96% of the women being on the board of the bank, making policies too. “We provided $10-20 to generational beggars and asked them to sell candy or any other material when they went for begging. Today, 200,000 beggars are part of the programme; 25% of them have even left begging, for they have mastered the art of sales.“
 
 According to him, all human beings are entrepreneurs. “They are not born to work for someone else. I send youngsters back home to their mothers, asking them to understand the struggles illiter ate women went through to become entrepreneurs. In the past two-and-a-half years, 12,000 graduates have started business. Every month, we get nearly 1,000 business ideas, seeking approval and funding,“ he said.
 
 “None ever gets rejected or denied any funding. If there's failure, we fail together. We (the bank) work with those setting up the business throughout and help them out in times of need. We are not a bank. We are the opposite of banks. Everyone is entitled to have that one idea that can change the world,“ Yunus added.
 
