Students of Management at Dr GRD College of Science were in for some heavy-duty gyan about supply chain management, recently. And, belting out the tips was none other than   of the Mumbai  . The motivational speaker was in the city for an interaction session with the students about the operational model and management of Dabbawalas. 

 “Dabbawalas are not caterers,” began Pawan. “We collect lunch boxes from home and deliver it to members of the family at work before lunch time. The reason we do that is Mumbai local trains are bursting at the seams and you need to have your hands free while commuting in it. Moreover, the journey is really long, which means the women in the household have to start making lunch in the wee hours of morning. That’s where the Dabbawalas come into the picture. We ensure that we serve hot, home-made food to our customers and the women get adequate sleep at the same time. We have been in the business for more than century.”
 
 Though it’s just two deliveries per day- per customer (from and back home), Pawan says that the delivery process is quite organized. “We are very particular that our customers eat only home-cooked food. We are responsible for the health of customers. Sometimes, wives send medicines as well through the lunch boxes. Rain or sunshine, we have to show up for duty. There are around 8, 00, 00 transactions per day and one dabbawala delivers at least 40 dabbas that weigh up to 60 kg. Commuting in the same packed local train with the dabbas is a huge challenge. At every station, the dabbas are sorted according to a unique coding. The codes represent the different localities of Mumbai. By lunch time, the dabbas are delivered.” 
 
 He adds, “Dabbawalas are divided into small groups and each group has a Mukhadan (team leader), who facilitates the transactions. He also takes care of the welfare of his group. For instance, if there is a family emergency or a dabbawala meets with an accident or falls ill, the group contributes money for the treatment. They do not wait for help. A dabbawala earns up to 12,000 per month.”
 
 The dabbawalas do not use any advanced technology. “Most of the dabbawalas aren’t educated and hence, they work with a unique coding system with colours and patterns that are easy to understand. Modern technology can definitely improve our work, but, we need to educate the dabbawalas first. We are already working towards it. Sometimes, our customers do not consume the food sent from home. We have created a unique sticker and handed some to them. Whenever, they do not eat their lunch, they put this sticker on their dabbas and we use it feed the needy. We ensure the food doesn’t go waste.”
 
  With more and more women taking to the work force, has it affected the dabbawala’s business? “The number of women sending dabbas has come down to an extent. But, to make up for that, we have started serving from restaurant as well, on request. We have to move with times.”
 
  
 
  
 
 
