PUNE: The BJP’s leaders in the city, involved in drawing up a list of candidates for the  , have a task on their hands. They have to walk the thin line between choosing candidates with ‘electoral merit’ and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s ( ) insistence on a clean background of aspirants.

 With RSS veterans expressing their displeasure to the   leadership over the party’s recent act of opening its doors to people with a criminal background,   said the party “will improve upon its mistakes”.
 
 Some BJP leaders from the city had landed chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in trouble after they introduced him to Baba Bodke, a gangster from Pune. A photograph of the meeting went viral, and Fadnavis was left red-faced. 
 
 Soon after, another photograph showing sitting NCP corporator Dinesh Dhadwe along with Pappu Gholap and Shyam Shinde with Fadnavis, BJP state president Raosaheb Danve and BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Kakade, created a furore. Dhadwe, Gholap and Shinde face serious criminal charges. The latest addition to the list was Vitthal Shelar who also has criminal charges. 
 
 “There are many who want to join the BJP. The party will not give a nomination to those who face criminal charges. If there were mistakes committed in opening the party’s doors to criminals, we will correct and improve them. The BJP is committed to clean politics,” Bapat told media persons recently.
 
 RSS insiders said the organization’s leaders had a series of meetings and were divided about the BJP’s changing face. “There is a one faction, prominently comprising senior RSS leaders who believe that the BJP must be allowed to carry on its own politics and the Sangh must not meddle in it. The younger lot in the RSS fully support the BJP. They insist that the party must come to power and cleanse itself of criminal elements,” a scribe close to Sangh circles said. 
 
 Senior RSS leaders said the organization must not take any step to scuttle the BJP’s chances to come to power in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “The RSS has become cautious after the split in Goa. The Sangh will work for Fadnavis and not for local leaders and hence will not take any step that will create a problem for the party,” an RSS source privy to information said. 
 
