PATNA: The Patna   authorities have decided to showcase the four-month old   cubs, kept with their mother Swarna in special care, on the occasion of International Tiger Day on July 29. The two tiger cabs were born on March 13 this year.

 The zoo will also celebrate the day by naming the cabs. Patna zoo director   said the officials would prepare a list of names and children visiting the zoo will be asked to vote for selection of names. “Names with maximum votes will finally be selected. We will make separate lists for the two cubs depending on their personality and features. One is golden brown and the other one is white,”   said.
 
 “Both cubs are very young. They are still sticking quite close to their mother, but the more time they spend outside, the more confident they will become. We’re looking forward to seeing them explore the rest of their new territory over the coming weeks. The zoo will display the cubs at the tiger enclosure with their mother, so that they could feel comfortable. However, keepers would keep a close eye on the cubs as they will make their public debut in the zoo’s tiger enclosure,” Kishor said, adding, “The keepers have informed me that they are pleased with the way the twins have been developing. Kids and residents can also get a chance to welcome the new members of zoo during this event, which will be a day-long affair.” 
 
 Apart from tiger display, kids can also take part in various interschool competitions, such as quiz and painting, which will be organised at the second gate of the zoo. Kishor said, “Quiz master   from Bangalore would be at the zoo to conduct the quiz competition and the winners will be felicitated with trophies and certificates. Students from Class V to XII can take part in the competition.”
 
 For the painting competition, kids will have to bring their own stationary and colours, while the zoo authorities will provide a piece of paper to draw. “The topic of the painting competition would be given on the spot. Probably, it will be related to wildlife. School coordinators should accompany the kids. We will communicate this message to city schools soon,” said Kishor.
 
