NEW DELHI: About 69% of 500 respondents interviewed for a poll on air pollution said they supported a phase-out of diesel private vehicles in the capital whereas about 56% believed vehicular emissions were the single greatest source of air pollution, followed by emissions from factories (18%) and burning of garbage (16%).

 The poll, commissioned by a coalition of citizens and civil society groups called Help Delhi Breathe and conducted by  , an NGO that works on health and environmental issues, shows that residents in Delhi are ready for some strong measures to counter air pollution. The poll also shows that 49% are willing to take action individually to reduce air pollution. While 72% believed that Delhiites are responsible for implementing solutions to the crisis, 49% put the onus on the local government. 
 
 Only 15% of those interviewed from five zones of Delhi said they used public transport daily and 41% used several times a week, but 8% never used it. About 52% prefer Metro followed by 26% for e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws for short distances, about 20% prefer DTC buses but with increased frequency and number.
 
 “Asthma was identified by more than half as a main reason for concern, while almost a quarter cited tuberculosis and lung infections, which are primarily caused by bacteria and virus but aggravated by air pollution,” said Dr  , a physician associated with the coalition. “Other serious long-term impacts of air pollution, particularly small particulates, such as lung cancer, heart disease and dementia, were not specifically mentioned.” he added
 
 “Last August, the coalition delivered a petition asking the government to place, in every district, air quality displays with health advisories in the form of symbols and text to allow people of all classes to understand how to protect themselves,” said  , the coalition’s coordinator. “More than 80,000 people signed the petition to health minister   but despite his promise, winter is almost over and nothing has happened. The few displays that are available are complex and don’t provide any health information.” The respondents identified 20 solutions, such as promotion of plantations, reduction in number of individual cars and law enforcement, for better air.
 
 
