NAGPUR: The bail plea of a 17-year-old minor, legally termed as   in conflict with law, was granted bail in the sensational murder case of  , alias  , who was eliminated on February 1 this year under broad daylight in a fallout of an ongoing gang war. 

 Juvenile justice board (JJB), which allowed the plea on conditions, set the minor free after his aunty complied with the surety bond of Rs 15,000 on the grounds of his age in the case where chargesheet is yet to be submitted. 
 
 The JJB has also asked the minor to remain present at   police station on second and fourth Thursdays of every month before the probation officer. The board has also asked him to remain appear before the court or police whenever required for the purpose of investigation. 
 
 Nine accused, including the minor, were nabbed by Ambazari police in the follow-up action to the Khusal’s murder. The heinous crime had then triggered scare among the citizens after the images of murder scene had gone viral on social media. 
 
 Advocates Nitin Bhave and Swapnil Chandurkar, counsels for the minor, had argued before the JJB that the minor is a student of standard X enrolled in a night school at Ramnagar who have no criminal background to justify his being behind the bar. “The minor was already behind bars for two months. His education was being hampered especially when he had no criminal antecedents,” said Bhave. He also said that the cousels had also assured court that the minor would stay elsewhere and not visit the locality which can trigger gang war. 
 
 It is learnt that the Ambazari police had opposed the bail on the ground that gang war can aggravate once again in the locality if the minor is set free. The cops had also taken a stand that the minor too can be targeted in the ongoing rivalries of the group which has led to a series of murder in the past. More than the fact that the chargesheet has not been filed by them and investigations are underway, the cops had stressed on the gang war to oppose the bail.
 
