

 CHENNAI: With her husband’s birthday just round the corner,   was scouring the internet for a gift that would be truly unique. And that’s when the new mother hit upon an idea. On D-day, she presented her husband with a breast milk ring.
 
 “He didn’t even know such a thing existed. I told him he was wearing my liquid gold on his finger,” says Swati, who ordered another ring for herself. “I breastfed my son for seven months and whenever I see the ring, it brings backs the good old memories.”
 
 Hand and feet impressions of babies have always been precious keepsakes for parents. But now, a few enterprising women in the city are not just doing baby-bump casting but also fashioning jewellery — rings, earrings, pendants — from breast milk. The idea has been such a hit with mothers that umbilical cord blood and stump, the first tooth, and locks of hair are now being included in these pieces of jewellery.
 
 Chennaiite  , from whom Swati ordered her rings, got the idea when her US-based friend, who had come to the city for her delivery, began looking for breast milk jewellery. “It’s quite popular abroad but new in India,” says Sangita, who was already doing 3D casting for people.
 
 After a year of research, she began making jewellery in November 2016. Her company,  , also makes keychains, cufflinks, fridge magnets and photo frames with breast milk.
 
  Sangita requires about 10-15ml of breast milk for her work. Once the customer contacts her, she sends an inclusion set with detailed instructions. The customer then hand-expresses the milk and couriers it.
 
 “I preserve it with food grade preservatives. Once it becomes semi-solid, I mould it and leave it to set for seven to 10 days at room temperature and it becomes stone-like,” says Sangita. It is then encased in glass and attached to metal jewellery.
 
 Bengaluru-based Suchitra H K ordered a silver finger ring for herself and cufflinks for her husband ahead of Mother’s Day. “While nursing, I knew this journey will not last for long and wanted a keepsake to capture it forever,” says Suchitra, who has a 15-month-old daughter. 
  
 Chennai-based Preethy Vijay has been finetuning her technique to make breast milk jewellery since last September. “I also work with umbilical cord stumps, locks of baby hair, teeth and nails,” says Preethi, who runs ‘Momma’s Milky Love -- Breastmilk Jewellery and Keepsakes India’.
 Care is taken to ensure that each mom receives jewellery made from her own breast milk. “As soon as I get the milk, I label it. I also don’t make similar designs on the same day,” she says. Prices range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 4,000 as she works only with artificial jewellery or sterling silver.
 
 But prices can go high when customers want gold jewellery. “I made a gold ring with diamonds, which also had breast milk inclusion, for Rs 1 lakh,” says Sangita, adding that she gets orders from across the world. “Customers who don’t like the colour of breast milk can opt for glitter and sparkles to be included in the final product,” she says.
 
 Chennaiite Keerthi Nagacharan, 25, who launched Lifeimpressions in 2015, does 3D casting and also offers baby-bump casting. “We make the pregnant woman sit in a comfortable position and then put a moulding material on the tummy to take the impression, which takes an hour,” she says. The bump cast is then put in a frame that can be opened and is priced from Rs 6,000 onwards. 
 
 Customers agree that sometimes the reaction to breast milk jewellery can be mixed. “The new mothers in my friend circle were excited and wanted to get it done but some of the older generation found it a little weird,” says Suchitra. “I want to pass it on to my daughter. It is a very important memory of the journey we had.”
 
