Yesterday, we told you about how   youngsters are doing everything in their capacity to prove their love for  . You can only imagine the kind of excitement they woke up with on the day   was touted to touch down in Mumbai. We spotted this group of Beliebers waiting at the airport to welcome the popstar. No prizes for guessing what they were all wearing! JB tees, duh! Annie Anthony, one of the Beliebers, couldn’t contain her excitement while talking to us. “We have been waiting for JB since 9.30 am here. We were expecting him to land by 11.30. But he isn’t here still. However, we aren’t going anywhere till we get a glimpse of him. We are keeping a track of his crew members through social media, too. One of them ( , dancer, choreographer) just posted a picture of himself, with a caption saying, ‘I am going to Mumbai’, so we are hoping they will be here in another four-five hours. We are crazy excited!” gushed Annie.

 On the other hand, those who could not manage to get to the airport, sat glued to their TV screens, waiting for any news of Bieber landing in India. Parents were in for a shock as for a change, the channels they were scoring through were news channels and not entertainment! Eighteen-year-old   Tejal Shinde told us, “I woke up early in morning and my parents were surprised to see me get up that early, that too on a Sunday. Then I just grabbed the remote and my mom irritably said, ‘ata basel English songs baghat’. But when I started watching news channels, they were left with their jaws hanging!” Fellow Belieber Kishor Sarvaiya echoed Tejal!
 
 We also had the (good) fortune of being inducted into a WhatsApp group of Beleibers from all over the country. The anticipation we witnessed, can be compared to nothing. Geetanjali Gapale, a 17-year-old from Pune, let fellow Beliebers know of her plans to run away to Mumbai on the morning of the concert, because her parents aren’t allowing her. And there was a surge of cheer for her, hailing her love for JB. On the other hand, Delhiite Shivan Ahuja took a different approach to convince his parents. He requested the group members to convince his dad to allow him to travel to Mumbai for the concert. “I brought tickets for `5,000, and booked train tickets for another `3,000. All from my savings. But now, my dad isn’t allowing me to go. How unfair is that!” he rued.
  Bieber had not reached Mumbai’s shores till we went to press. Hope the wait ends soon. 
 
