THRISSUR:   (KAU) on Saturday released the packages of practices for organic farming, detailing the cultivation practices to be adapted to organic crops.

 According to the Vice Chancellor   there are about 73 agricultural universities including deemed universities in the country KAU is the first Indian University to prepare an exclusive package of practices for organic cultivation of crops.
 
 Agriculture Minister   who released the document at the preparatory meeting of the forthcoming   (OWC) said the officials in the agriculture department would now advice the organic farmers in the state along the lines prescribed in the `Packages of Practices.'
 
 Kerala was aiming to become an organic state at earliest possible, and with the release of Packages of Practices by KAU it will be possible to infuse a standardization in organic farming, he said.
 
 The Minister said the strategy envisages not just the use of organic manure and pesticides, but a complete integration of the bio-diversity and indigenous farming practices of the state.
 
 The Minister said the state would not patronize fundamentalist concepts in the name organic or natural farming, as this could lead to dip in yield. What we need is a fundamental shift from indiscriminate dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides to a scientific farming practice, which will ensure high productivity and conserve the bio-diversity, natural assets and indigenous cultivation methods, the Minister said.
 
 The Vice Chancellor said organic farming would be sustainable in the state only if it was integrated to waste management. "Much of the waste was finding its way to the homestead farms earlier in Kerala. However, now people dump the waste on the roads, this must be reversed,'' he said.
 
 He said the farmers will have to use fertilizers like lime shells or rock phosphate, but must avoid chemical fertilizers. Similarly there are organic pesticides and several bio-control agents available not instead of the harmful chemical insecticides, he said.
 
 The Minister said Kerala will collaborate with the forthcoming Organic World   (OWC) to be held in New Delhi in October, as a partner and not just as a participant. 
 
 He said Kerala will be adequately and appropriately represented at the OWC and will use it as a platform to showcase the state's progress in organic farming and the commitment to it has to be highlighted in the event.
 
 OWC Coordinator Claude Alvares said the Congress is the world's largest and most significant organic gathering, and is held once in three years to discuss and deliberate the current issues. ``We will be launching a series of mobilization to ensure political support to the event,'' he said.
 
