MUMBAI: The tussle between certain office-bearers of the   and the Committee of Administrators ( ) continues.

 Almost five days after the BCCI   meeting in New Delhi ended in chaos after its chairman   stormed off midway, accusing that the role of the committee was not defined clearly by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  , the CoA has told the BCCI officials that they need to mandatorily hold the finance committee meeting in near future.
 
 “Yes, the CoA has sent a reminder to the finance committee convener and BCCI treasurer Anirudh Chaudhary that the meeting needs to take place soon. The finance committee needs to approve the draft audited accounts of the BCCI for the accounting year (2016-2017) along with the notes on accounts. Unless the budget is approved, the Board can't hold the Annual General Meeting (AGM) body,” a source confirmed to TOI on Tuesday.
 
 In a strongly worded letter to BCCI office-bearers last Saturday, the CoA had informed them that a panel like the finance committee won't exist post the adoption of the draft constitution by the  , while also making it clear that it had never hindered the working of the committee at any stage.
 
 
 
 
 The CoA has transferred most of the important functions of the Board secretary to the CEO in the BCCI draft constitution which it has prepared and submitted to the SC.
 
 In a para of the draft constitution, a copy of which is with TOI, the power-function of the secretary to “sign all contracts for and on behalf of the BCCI and carry on all correspondence in the name of the BCCI save as otherwise directed by the apex court,” has been struck off.
 
 A note below says that: “to obviate the burden on the honorary secretary, the CoA is of the considered view that all ministerial functions, including the signing of contracts for and behalf of the BCCI, and carrying on of correspondence in the name of the BCCI must be construed as day-today functioning of the BCCI and should be handled by the CEO, who's based in the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai.”
 
 Similarly, the powers functions of the treasurer too have been curtailed. “make payments and incur expenditure out of the funds of the BCCI, the apex council or any committee appointed by the BCCI, provided that all transfers or payments must be with the signatures of the two office-bearers of which the treasurer shall be one,“ has been changed to “be one of the three persons who sign the audited annual accounts and other financial statements of the BCCI.”
 
 The draft constitution, of course, needs to be approved by the SC before it'll be adopted by the BCCI.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the much-awaited SC hearing into the fifth status report filed by CoA, listed for Tuesday, was postponed to Thursday , as Gopal Subramanian, the amicus curae in the case, wasn't available on the previous date.
 
