GAYA: The   ( ), a statutory body constituted under a 2005 Act of Parliament, has issued a notice to the Gaya administration on the alleged violation of guidelines on the mandatory requirement for plying school buses.
 
  “The notice was issued a couple of days back on the basis of complaints received by the commission alleging blatant violation of guidelines by several Gaya-based Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools,” said a source in NCPCR.
  
  On February 23 this year, the CBSE issued a circular giving details of the standard operating procedure for the school buses. The important points include yellow paint on all school buses with ‘School bus’ written prominently on the front as well as back of the bus, use of non-combustible material in seats, provision of fire tenders, installation of functional global positioning system and   cameras in the buses and grilled window.
  
  The other essentials include emergency gate, speed governor with a maximum 40 km/hour speed limit, uniform with proper name tag for school bus drivers, deployment of one transport manager in each school bus, at least one lady attendant in each bus, sufficient white lighting arrangement, functional gate locks, enough space for school bags beneath the seat and first aid box etc.
  
  Gaya DM Kumar Ravi said the file concerned file had not reached his table. “The SC guidelines and CBSE circular will be effectively implemented in the district,” said Ravi.
  
  According to DAV group of schools director U S Prasad, separate registration of school buses was not required and the buses operated by the   have valid local permit. On the point of total implementation of the CBSE circular on the issue, Prasad said that it would be his endeavour to ensure full compliance.
  
  CBSE school operators, in private discussions, ridicule the circular as impractical. “It was simply out of question to design school buses entirely as per the parameters set in the circular. Deputation of transport managers and lady attendants in each bus would cause unbearable financial burden on school management,” said one.
  
  According to municipal corporator  , the number of accidents caused by school buses has registered a sharp increase in recent years and most of the school bus drivers violate the speed limit to beat the timeline. Reining in school bus drivers was the need of the hour for the safety of road users, particularly pedestrians and cyclists, said Prasad.
