PATNA: Expressing concern over decline in the standard of political debate in the country, chief minister (CM)   on Sunday said people are nowadays forgetting even the dignity of the post while indulging in debates.
 
  Making an oblique reference to PM Narendra Modi’s recent ‘raincoat in bathroom’ comment for former PM  , Nitish, without taking name of any person, said people should maintain certain standards while participating in political debates.
  
  “There is always a chance of discussion and debate in public life. Democracy cannot run without debate and dialogue. But, there must be a ‘certain standard’ in such dialogues and debates. Nowadays, people are not even thinking of the posts they are holding,” Nitish said while addressing a function to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of Patna unit of the Prajapita Brahmakumari Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya, at the jam-packed S   here.
  
  The CM, while referring to motivational guru Brahma Kumari Shivani’s speech, said, “She has rightly advised that if the people in front of you are speaking too much unnecessarily and loudly, avoid them and don’t pay attention to their acts.”
  
    chief Lalu Prasad and some dignitaries of   were sitting on the dais when the CM was speaking.
  
  Prior to the CM’s speech, Brahma Kumari Shivani, in the midst of her motivational discourse, called upon the audience to take a pledge that they will leave another ‘addiction’ of being angry from tomorrow by raising their hands.
  
  To this, a majority of people in the audience raised their hands and pledged that they would not be angry from tomorrow. At the dais, Lalu raised his both hands in the support of the pledge, but Nitish kept smiling.
  
  Lalu, in his address, too assured the sisters of Brahma Kumaris that he would follow the guidelines given by the Brahma Kumari Shivani in his personal life and take all possible steps to not be angry in future.
  
  Nitish explained how he had to face anger of each people because of remaining in public life. “I have to face the anger of not only the people in front of me, but also of the people of ‘agal-bagal’,” Nitish said amidst spilt of laughter from the audience. People laughed because Lalu was sitting just besides him.
