Nagpur: The Central Institute for Research in Cotton Technology (Circot) Mumbai under its nano-technology mission developed nano-cellulose from cotton waste which can be used as spinning oil in the textile industry. The technology has already been commercialized and adopted by M/s TKML Coimbatore. One of the team leaders in the project N Vigneshwaran told TOI that the spinning oil prevents the breaking of the yarn during spinning. “We have a pilot plant where we manufacture nano-cellulose from which we make the spinning oil. We give this oil to the user industry in Coimbatore. But, since it is a nonexclusive technology transfer we are planning to sell this technology to other industries and potential consumers who are not aware of it. The oil increases fibre affinity, makes the fibre stronger and minimizes breakages in fibre,” he said. This technology was developed by a team headed by Vigneshwaran and comprising Circot director PG Patil and AK Bhanimala as other members. Patil sees this as one of the most promising technology developed by the institute. “We need to identify the users and the market to be able to transfer this technology to as many industries as possible,” said Patil. The use of nanotechnology by improving the physical, chemical, biological and optical properties of the fabric should change the textile industry for better in near future. Circot has also commercialized another technology regarding use of nano zinc oxide particles in making special quality bedsheets for hospitals. Zinc oxide is infused into the cotton fabric using acrylic binder. This makes the bedsheets anti-microbial which in turn helps in prevention of infection from the patient to the attendants and visitors. Bedsheet actually kills the germs. This technology was developed by incubating Circot by the Green Globe Mumbai. The use of zinc oxide in nano form brings inertness, whiteness, anti-irritant, skin healing and ultraviolet absorption properties in the cotton fabric along with cost effectiveness. This technology was developed by a team spearheaded by Vigneshwaran and comprising A Arputhraj and Virendra Prasad. Since textile industry uses large number of chemicals in processing of cotton, minimizing their use using nano-technology holds the key to improvements in the industry. “Our team has been able to reduce the use of these chemicals by one-fifth. We have introduced novel properties in cotton textiles like flame retarding, anti-microbial and ultraviolet absorbing properties using nano-technology,” said Vigneshwaran.