MUMBAI: Two private detective agencies have come under the   scanner for “illegally” acquiring   (CDRs) from mobile service providers. 

 The crime branch busted one such allegedly illegal   sale racket with the arrest of two detectives in the western suburbs. Sources said the action followed complaints from corporate houses to Mumbai police commissioner that a few detective agencies were using illegal means to access CDRs to help rivals “settle scores” with them.
 
 Crime Branch Unit IX arrested owners of two detective agencies—Laxman Thakur and Kirtesh Kavi—and booked them under Indian Penal Code sections for cheating and Indian Telegraph Act. Cops said accessing someone else’s CDR or location from a service provider is illegal for all, except security agencies, as it amounts to infringement of privacy. 
 
 Police sources said these days, wealthy individuals and corporates have begun to use such methods to spy on rivals. There is also a “huge demand” to spy on spouses in troubled relationships, they added.
 
 Acting on complaints, the crime branch team sent a bogus customer, one Shafi Peerbhoy, to Thakur who runs Mastermind Detectives at his Juhu Koliwada office. Peerbhoy posed as a businessman and sought a particular mobile number’s CDR and the ID location over the past three months. Thakur allegedly told him he would have to cough up Rs 50,000. Peerbhoy gave him Rs 10,000 as advance and Thakur asked him to return in two to three days. On January 31, Thakur called Peerbhoy to a Bandra hotel where no sooner did he hand over the CDR printouts that the crime branch team headed by inspector Mahesh Desai, Rajesh Padvi and Nitin Patil arrested him. During his interrogation, Thakur said he had bought the details from Kirtesh Kavi who runs   at Goregaon. 
 
 Another team subsequently raided Kavi’s office and arrested him. Cops found copies of several CDRs. While scanning his WhatsApp messages, cops came across conversations over CDRs with clients as well as representatives of mobile service providers. Kavi said that one man, identified as Surabh, is believed to have regularly provided him with the CDRs.
 
 “We suspect the CDRs were illegally obtained from mobile service providers. We have arrested the two and are interrogating them to find their source. Some employees of service providers are under the scanner,” said an officer. Further, during the course of investigation, cops found that the two accused had even put up advertisements on the internet that their detective agencies could help get “inside information” from phones. 
 
 
