 ( ) is planning to set up a world-class assaying and training institute for proper hallmarking and a physical spot gold exchange in India.
 
  Talking to TOI on the sidelines of a launch of a new comprehensive India gold report in regional language, WGC managing director   said the council is looking at improving the ecosystem and uplifting the infrastructure and policy framework which will automatically wipe out the century-old notions and stigma attached with the business of yellow metal. “We are studying the feasibility of setting up these two institutions for gold. But, we need industry to join our initiatives. Our primary areas of focus are: policy, infrastructure and data,” added Somasundaram.
  
  The proposed assaying and training institute in collaboration with   India will impart world-class programmes on standardization and manufacturing of gold with the help of latest tools, high-standard labs and international curriculum. This institute, according to Somasundaram, would create a new breed of assayers, which will lead to mandatory hallmarking in gold manufacturing.
  
  WGC also has plans for publishing the India Gold Report in 29 regional languages focusing on the rural users of gold. “Somewhere you have to start. We want inputs from across the industry spectrum,” he reasoned.
  
  On the spot gold exchange, the   said it may hit hurdles from the various state governments. “But, we have to convince all industry partners and government authorities to improve gold industry infrastructure. The new exchange would bring in more transparency and structure the market. Gold vaults and reliable gold receipts are also needed.”
  
  According to the WGC MD, buying and selling gold in any form – jewellery, bar, exchange-traded funds (ETF) – is good. “We have suggested gold savings schemes through banking channels to bring more transparency in the trade. Implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and usage of PAN card details can improve gold’s value as an asset class. I pin hopes that together with the   framework, the mandatory hallmarking and the promotion of non-cash payments will make gold trade more transparent by cleaning up the grey market. Illegal imports touched about 120 tonne a year now,” he said.
  
  However, WGC has already urged the government to reduce the GST burden on gold and gold products be halved from the current level of around 12%. Currently, gold invites a tax between 12-13% besides a customs duty of 10%, excise of 1% and VAT of 1-1.5% depending upon states.
  
  Meanwhile, the gold demand during Q1 (January-March, 2017) grew by 15% to 123 tonne, but it was 18% down compared to the corresponding period in the last five years on average.
