Sabriye Tenberken was born in a village close to Cologne in Germany. 

 Like many children there, she rode horses and bicycles and went skating on ice and skiing through the countryside. At some point during the growing up years, she was afflicted with pseudo Retinitis Pigmentosa, a pigmentation of the retina which gradually affects vision and sometimes leads to complete blindness.
 
 Initially, she went to school with fully sighted children but it was at the age of 12 that she came to terms with the word ‘blind’ and accepted her condition. Till then, she had been trying to avoid situations in which her lack of sight became obvious. “Children started to tease me and teachers acted in an awkward way. The turning point came when I decided to develop a new positive attitude towards blindness. I started to look for the advantages and quickly became aware of a few privileges: I could focus much better than before, I was not easily distracted by visual input, I was forced to find my own methods to cope with life and thus became a problem solver and my ability to imagine things improved immensely,” she says.
 
 Luckily for her, her family was never over protective but trusted in her abilities to discover the world and cope with life’s challenges. Creative quotient in the family was high, with her dad being a musician, mother a theatre director and elder brother an artist. They even ran a creativity school, helping children create their own musicals and this did wonders to Sabriye’s confidence.
 
  Even after shifting to a boarding school for the blind, she had opportunities to do adventure sports such as white water kayaking, wind surfing, down-hill skiing and trampoline jumping because the teachers there believed that these activities provided them the techniques and self-esteem required to take charge of their lives. “The doors were opened for us to venture into an unknown future,” she says. 
 
  She recalls that as a child she was hurt when called names like ‘blind fool’, or ‘disabled donkey’, but as a teenager she began to look deeper into the motives of those who discriminate. “People do this because of insecurity. If people tried to discourage me from doing something adventurous, I knew that most of them couldn’t stand the thought that I would be able to do something that they themselves were afraid of doing. And this naturally made them aggressive. I do feel we all need to apply a new understanding of ‘disability’. From the bird’s eye perspective, we all are disabled because we cannot fly! But this ‘lack’ can empower. Imperfection is the mother of invention. Without our disability to fly we would have never invented air planes. Once the world understands the power of imperfection, discrimination will vanish,” she says.
 
 As part of her study of Tibetology in Bonn University, Sabriye created a Braille system for the Tibetan language. In 1997, she took this system to Tibet which accepted it as the official Tibetan Braille script. 
 
 “On my first long trip through Tibet, I met families with blind children who were hidden from society. Many Tibetans, especially in rural areas believe that blindness is a punishment for some past life karma. I felt back then that it is up to the blind to change this stigma and therefore I decided to start a preparatory school for the blind.”
 
  In perhaps the biggest twist of her tale, she ran into her partner Paul Kronenberg, a Dutch engineer, during this trip. When she told him about her plans, he was greatly interested. “When I had all my papers and permissions together and my ticket in my pocket, I called him at his workplace and was surprised to hear his immediate decision to come with me to build this dream together. Who on earth would he quit his job just like that and join an almost stranger to a place which he only visited for a few months?”
 
  As a team, they complimented each other very well. With his technical background, Paul established all the ‘hardware’, while she put in place the ‘software’ including the curriculum and methodologies. “In the middle of Lhasa, we found an old run down building which Paul helped renovate and later he built another building around it. After a year, we had over 30 students who learned everything they needed to know in order to go to regular schools,” she says.
  Besides Braille and language skills in Tibetan, Chinese and English, children also learned to use their white canes and travel on their own, to ride horses and go white water rafting. Others who were not so interested in academics had a chance to be trained in cheese production, baking bread, animal husbandry, organic vegetable production, compost production, handicraft and music. Other graduates even went on to become entrepreneurs.
 
  After achieving acclaim and awards for their Tibetan experiment, she and Paul wanted to replicate their success elsewhere and not just with the blind. “We wanted to create a training centre for leadership in the social change sector. And we believe that those who have gone through adversity, who have experienced the transformation from marginalisation to becoming a contributor, are the ones who can realise sustainable and ethical social change.”
 
  They wanted to establish this centre at a place somewhere central in the world and, believe it or not, they found Kerala to be such a place that ‘hangs’ right in the middle between Africa and Asia. After they accepted an invite to visit the State from one Navin Ramachandran, who had read an article about them, they never wanted to leave the State. “We built a campus in Laurie Baker style and named it 
 . Every year, we train around 25 participants from around the world. They come for a seven month training in project planning and management, fundraising, and public speaking. They develop their social ventures through a creative thinking process which is based on experiential learning.”
 
  A participant has to be at least 22, fluent in English, possess basic computer skills, and has to apply through the website (www.kanthari.org) with an idea for ethical social change. Pre-education is not a must and the selected candidates are offered a scholarship. The next course is slated to start in May 2018.
  Sabriye doesn’t care much for politically correct euphemisms. “I am not visually challenged, I am blind. The word blind is a good word as it describes my condition in a precise way. This is important to me.”
 
  Has she ever felt left out hearing the descriptions about God’s Own Country? “I can imagine the beauty of Kerala, the lakes, the backwaters, the palm trees and the beautiful and colourful flowers. Who knows maybe my picture of Kerala is even more beautiful than of those who see!” 
 
 
 
 
 Amazing Change
 
 Sabriye’s Tibetan model of transforming the marginalised to high achievers has astonished many. She lists the reasons:
 n Due to their marginalisation, they have nothing to lose except their dignity. No one had any expectations and this gave them the freedom to take a risk or better to transform a risk to an adventure. Whatever they achieved was a plus.
 
 n Most children are told to be a good girl or a good boy. But this just forces them to please and never to try out and fail and try out again. Since the parents of our children in Tibet never had high expectations, they didn’t feel the urge to be everybody’s darling and thus had the guts to venture out and they were not afraid to fail or lose their reputation.
 
 n We, in our preparatory school were very particular about being reliable and ethical. Being transparent, honest and authentic were important values in our school. This definitely helps them now to find and retain partnerships.
 
 n It is important for someone who creates change to have a vision, to believe in this vision and to approach it step by step. In the ‘Braille without borders’ school we stressed on dreaming big and starting small, step by step. Nowadays most of these children have realised their dreams. 
 
 n Lastly, it is vital to not only accept your disabilities and/or limits but also to embrace them and find the advantages. For all of them blindness or even just marginalisation became a springboard which gave them the energy to jump high.
 
 
 
 
