BHOPAL/JABALPUR: A division bench of the   comprising Justice Dipak Mishra and Justice A M Khanvilkar, granted an interim relief to 30 students for appearing in forthcoming D Ed examination conducted by the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education ( ).

 The apex court also issued notices to the state government and the MPBSE to justify validity and enforceability of departmental order on the basis of which students were debarred from taking D Ed supplementary examination.
 
 The interim order of the SC, directing that result of students shall not be declared till further orders came on a clutch of appeals filed against the judgment of Madhya Pradesh High Court (MPHC) that had dismissed the writ petitions of the students, holding the decision of the BSE to be in right place.
 
 The petitioners, who were from Betul district, were debarred from appearing for the supplementary examinations on the ground by the BSE that they have not been able to clear their respective annual examination in “2 consecutive chances” available to them, relying on its departmental order of December 17, 2012.
 
 Counsel for the petitioners Siddhartha Radhelal Gupta contended that the departmental order is completely unenforceable because the same has not been published in official gazette as per requirement u/s 28 of the BSE Act 1965, nor has been ever approved by the state government. Gupta contended that the department order therefore cannot be made the basis for debarring students from appearing for the respective examinations conducted by the board, which has to function in accordance with the provisions of BSE Act 1965.
 
 The students appealed before the SC urging the court to grant them permission to appear in forthcoming examinations scheduled in last week of May this year. The board is a state-level agency that conducts centralised examination for students pursuing D Ed course from institutions in the state.
 
 On the basis of departmental order of December 2012, the BSE follows a rule that any student is entitled only for “2 consecutive chances” for appearing in the annual examinations of 2-year   course, failing which, one has to compulsorily drop out and start afresh.
 
 Large number of students were also debarred on the basis of aforesaid departmental order of 2012 in the current academic year, when all of them approached the HC challenging the validity of departmental order and for a further prayer for appearing in examinations.
 
 The High Court had dismissed all petitions in April 2017 against which the students appealed before the Supreme Court. Students stand was that departmental order of December 2012 is unenforceable, since it was never published in the official gazette & brought into force with the prior sanction of the state government.
 
 Another ground on which the said writ petition were filed was that National Council for Teacher Education ( ), the apex authority for fixing norms and standards for DEd course laid down a maximum period of 3 years for completing the D Ed. course to any student, which period is also curtailed by the departmental order of BSE to much less than 3 years.
 
 
