NAGPUR: As usual, major political parties have fielded people from one community against each other in several seats in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections leaving the communities’ associations high and dry. Office bearers of communities’ associations are upset over the system adopted by the major political parties. Therefore, associations are not likely to extend   to candidates.

 As per information available from some legislators and corporators, caste wise voting is mostly seen in municipal elections compared with Lok Sabha or assembly elections. There are associations of various types of  . Best examples are Kunbi, Teli, Halba, Sindhi and others. However, associations are not seen holding meetings and declaring support to candidates.
 
 One of the major reason is candidates from one community in the fray against each other in several seats. Best example is seat-D in Ward no. 20 from where Motiram Mohadikar (Congress), Deepraj Pardikar (BJP), Kishor Parate (Shiv Sena) and Anil Kadgi (NCP) are contesting against each other. All four candidates from different parties are from Halba community.
 
 Similarly, three Halba persons — Mangesh Patrabe (Congress), Rajesh Ghodpage (BJP) and Subhash Bhisikar (Shiv Sena) are in the fray against each other from seat-A in Ward no. 22.
 
 From Sindhi community, Vicky Kukreja (BJP), Vedprakash Arya (NCP) and Suresh Jagyasi (Congress) are contesting against each other from seat- D in Ward no. 1.
 
 There is a direct fight only in one seat between Rekha Barahate (Congress) and Pallavi Shamkule (BJP) from seat-B in Ward no. 36 and both from Kunbi community.
 
 Similarly, Anil Dhawade (Shiv Sena) and Manoj Chafale (BJP) are having a big fight from seat-D in ward no. 22 and both from Teli community.
 
 It is a common system adopted by the major political parties especially BJP and Congress to pitch Ambedkarites against each other from SC reservation seats. Also, the same system is followed in fielding the Muslim community candidates as are in the fray against each other. Also, there are many associations in these two communities so unlikely of any missive over support to candidates.
 
 When it comes to some communities like Halba, Teli, Kunbi and Sindhi, associations are seen passing missives over support to candidates in Lok Sabha and assembly elections. But the same unlikely in municipal elections.
 
 President of Teli Samaj Subhash Ghate told TOI it is not possible to declare support to candidates as having fight with each other in many wards. “Political parties give tickets to candidates based on number of voters of their communities in particular wards. Therefore, all major parties field people from one community against each other. Such system results into setback for the community. But we suggest people from our community to ensure victory of one of our candidates as always chances of other community candidate getting benefit from division of votes between our candidates,” he said.
 
 Veteran Halba activist   said, “It happened in past that candidates of our community defeated by other community candidate in ward dominated by our community following division of votes between our candidates. People from one community should avoid as much as possible to taken on each other in elections. Community can grow rapidly if many people get elected. Much depends upon our people but many can be seen looking after their careers and not community,” he said.
 
 Secretary of Maratha Sewa Sangh, state unit Madhukar Mehkare said at least bigwigs from one community should avoid contesting against each other as they crucial for the community and also people from the particular community. “Support to any particular candidate impossible when two from our community in the fray against each other. Sometimes we suggest people from our community to vote for the person who work for community and people,” he said.
 
 
