Chennai: India is back among the “top ten focus markets” for Japanese auto major Toyota, less than a year after the company indicated it would put a freeze on India investments at the height of the diesel vehicle controversy. Stung by the controversy over diesel vehicles, the company – which had just invested Rs 1100 crore in a diesel engine production unit – had announced it would put a hold on India plans till the future roadmap became clear. Said N Raja, senior VP and director, Toyota Kirloskar Motor: “We had some setbacks related to diesel but subsequent to that the government roadmap became clear and the CAFÉ, safety and emission cutoffs were marked out so India is now among the top 10 markets in terms of Toyota’s focus globally and the recent Lexus launch proves that,” he added.

 TKM has also improved its sales performance, ending the fiscal with an 80% plus growth in March. The company did wholesales of 13800 in March compared to 7637 units last year and the fiscal tally is 142500 vehicles, compared to 128500 vehicles last fisc, up 11%. “Most of this growth came from new launches Crysta and Fortuner,” said Raja. “The Crysta did a cumulative 75000 units since last May and the Fortuner has done 10350 units since its launch in end-October 2016.”
 
 While Lexus may be in India already, the launch of the other brand that Toyota has been considering for India – Daihatsu – is still hazy. “When it comes to Daihatsu, the India discussions haven’t happened and the teams are currently addressing those markets where the Daihatsu brand is already present namely Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia,” said Raja.
 
 Despite the topgear performance, TKM is still nowhere near utilizing its peak capacity of 300,000 units. “Currently our plant 1 is running on full steam with Innova and Fortuner while we are looking at filling up the capacity in plant 2,” said Raja. “We are requesting for more products to fill up capacity in plant 2.” The second plant, which is currently at 50% utilization, makes Corolla, Camry, Etios and Liva and also exports to South Africa.
 
 
