NASHIK: The month-long   that was to rock the city in March received a dim response due to the civic elections. 

 City-based wineries had planned a wine festival with the help of the government all through March to create the brand of the country's wine capital and boost tourism of the district. The wine festival could not take place though due to civic election in the state as ministers were busy with  .
 
 The wineries are now expecting a wine festival in the month of September.
 
 On January 6, the wineries had a meeting with state tourism minister Jaykumar Rawal where it was decided that a month-long wine festival would be held with the help of the government to brand   as the wine city and attract tourists from across the country and world.
 
 Chairman of the wine tourism advisory committee Jagdish Holkar told TOI, "We had a plan to hold a wine festival all through March with the help of the state government, but this could not happen due to the election to the municipal corporations in the state. The ministers were busy in campaigns. We had planned a big event and at least two months are required for the preparations of such a big festival." 
 
 For a project like this one, a large amount of funding is required. "We had plans to organise a wine festival to promote Nashik as a wine city and a tourist destination. But it was not be possible due to the civic polls across the state. Earlier, we had held a wine festival at Vinchur from the funding by the Indian Grape Processing Board (IGPB). But the union government has already dissolved the board," said Holkar, who is the former chairman of the board.
 
 Currently, the wineries are also pursing with the Union government for the revival of the board. "Now, we have an option either to hold the wine festival in September or in March, next year," said Holkar. 
 
 The IGPB held a wine festival held at Vinchur Wine Park in the distrcit in 2013 after which the Union government dissolved the board. 
 
 The   set up the IGPB in 2009 at Pune to promote and regulate grape processing activities and improve the standards of wine production in the country. But, the 15-member board of the IGPB was suspended in February 2015. On March 31, 2015, the IGPB vacated its office housed in the   in Pune. Since then, the board is yet to be revived. 
 
 
