PUNE: A 14-year-old boy fell into a   along the Ambil Odha ( ) near   on Saturday morning. Efforts to rescue were futile till late in the evening as the boy could not be found. Fire brigade officials called off the search operation late in the evening but it will resume on Sunday morning.

 The missing boy, Ganesh Kishor Chandane, is a resident of the slums located near Dandekar bridge. His parents are   and he studies at a civic school in Dattawadi.
 
 Ganesh and his friends were playing cricket in a small open plot located near the nullah. During the game, the ball fell in the nullah after a batsman hit it.
 
 Ganesh, who was fielding, climbed down in the nullah and began searching for the ball. A few other players also climbed into the nullah to search for the ball.
 
 According to fire brigade officials and other eyewitnesses, while searching for the ball, Ganesh realised the ball had landed in the cement opening of a big drainage chamber that channelises the area’s sewage and so began trying to get it out with the help of a stick. However, he accidentally fell in. 
 
 Anil Patil, senior inspector of the Dattawadi police station, said the civic body had dug up the area near the chamber to divert the excess flow of water from the nullah to the drainage chamber. In the process, the chamber was broken to divert the water.
 
 A group of local residents, who were standing near the spot, immediately called up the city fire brigade about the accident.
 
 The city fire brigade received the emergency call at 10.30am and two fire tenders with rescue facilities rushed to the spot. Later, an earth mover was also summoned to help the search operation. 
 
 Fire brigade personnel searched the entire drainage chamber that flows towards the Mutha river, but failed to locate the boy.
 
 The drainage chamber has two openings one near Vaikunth crematorium and another one at Kasba Pumping Station. Fire brigade officials searched both directions till the evening.
 
 According to police, the chamber has massive flow in the morning hours, which might have dragged the boy along into the river.
 
 Local residents told TOI that a small plot of land near the nullah has been cleaned up for beautification and other amenities by civic authorities. The plot has been levelled properly, so many local children use it to play.
 
 
