BENGALURU: The tussle between the ruling   and the opposition   over Diarygate is set to worsen as the state government has decided to file a Special Leave Petition (SLP). It wants to challenge the high court order quashing the proceedings against state BJP president   in connection with a ‘defective sanction order’ by then governor H R Bhardwaj in relation to denotification of land.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah held a meeting with legal experts and Lokayukta officials on Monday and decided to go ahead with the SLP. “The advocate general and I had given our opinion long ago, saying it is a fit case for SLP. Advocates are expected to file the petition in the   sometime this week,’’ additional advocate general A S Ponnanna said.
 
 Last November last, the   had quashed the January 21, 2011 order issued by Bhardwaj, saying there was no explanation why he had accorded sanction in favour of the prosecution. The court had said as the complaint was a private one, “great caution and proper application of mind was necessary, particularly (on) the uneasy relationship between then chief minister and governor’’.
 
 A division bench had also said the governor had not properly considered the recommendations made by then cabinet chaired by Yeddyurappa. Last year, the high court had also quashed 15 FIRs filed against the senior BJP leader for alleged illegal denotification of land, based on a CAG report. The FIRs were registered following a complaint filed by Jayakumar Hiremath based on a 2012 CAG report on denotification of land by the government and allotment of sites by BDA. 
 
 Party sources said the Congress government was earlier reluctant to file an SLP since it feared the step would “hurt Lingayat sentiments”, but now it has no option but to file it.
 
 Will get clean chit 
 
 The Congress government is free to revive cases against me. I have already been vindicated by the high court. I am confident I will get a clean chit from Supreme Court too. I will not get bogged down by such threats and continue to fight against the corrupt government
 
 B S Yeddyurappa, state BJP president 
 
