MUMBAI: As the new year began, it brought with it a huge backlog of cases with Maharashtra having over 31 lakh cases pending. Nationwide over 2.3 crore were pending on January 2 across the district judiciary in India. These include over 1.5 crore criminal cases and over 72 lakh civil cases. In Maharashtra, the pendency includes 20 lakh criminal cases and over 11 lakh civil cases.

 Uttar Pradesh peaks in pendency with almost 55 lakh cases that include 41 lakh criminal cases and over 13 lakh civil cases. Cases not disposed of for over a decade constitute over 13 percent of the lot at over 7 lakh and there are almost 20 lakh cases or 36% pending for less than two years. Maharashtra has the second-highest tally of pending   across states. The data compiled by the National Judicial Data Grid also shows that nationally, cases pending for over 10 years comprise 10% of total pending cases at 23 lakh, while those pending between two and five years constitute 30% of the total. The majority of the cases—over one crore (43%)—are pending for less than two years. The number of pending criminal cases in Maharashtra are over 20 lakh while civil cases are over 11 lakh. 
 
 Over 2.5 lakh (8%) of the total pendency stems from over 10 years while 45% of the pendency or 14.6 lakh cases are pending for less than two years in Maharastra.
 
 The data comprises statistics of the district judiciary of the country, but excludes figures from family courts and courts where connectivity is not available.
 
 While nationwide, the number of pending cases filed by senior citizens form 3.5% of the total, in Maharashtra that average is higher at over 7%. The number of cases filed by women and pending across the country are 23 lakh or 10% of the total. In Maharashtra there are almost 3 lakh cases in the same category. West Bengal has fewer cases pending across the district judiciary at over 12 lakh. In Madhya Pradesh, the pendency is 2% of the national figure. 
 
 Delhi too has shown among the lowest pendency for cases in courts for over a decade at just 1% of the total pendency of five lakh cases. It also has among the highest number of cases pending for less than two years at lmost 3.4 lakh cases or over 67 % cases. The total pendency in Delhi is five lakh with 3.4 lakh criminal and 1.6 lakh civil cases.
 
 Even Tamil Nadu has less low pendency at almost 9 lakh which departing from the nationwide trend, has more civil than criminal cases. Punjab fares best in disposal of cases among the big states as the number of cases pending for over a decade is 1,122.
 
 
