With school and college vacations on in full swing, Mumbai is not holding back when it comes to exploring the landscape of modern dance forms. Gone are the days when youngsters flitted between zumba, hip-hop and salsa, dance instructors inform that with youngsters in the mood to experiment, newer dance styles have caught their fancy. They are now keen to learn more established dance routines. Talking a cross-section of dance instructors, choreographers and students in the city, we deduced a frenzy for these five dance styles...

 Kanchi Shah, a belly dance instructor, reveals, “Any good dancehall move, from the   (gets its name from a celebrated Jamaican dancer) move that works the upper body and your abs, to the Blah Daff (involving a deep bend and the use of abs to maintain control as you push back and forth) becomes a full-body workout. It engages calves, core, thighs, and triceps, which gets toned with each beat.” 
 
 
 So let’s get this clear: Street Jazz is not street dance. It is a combination of modern-dance styles of hip hop, funk, electronic dance, and of course, jazz. If you want to be known for those classical Michael Jackson and   moves, then this dance form is for you. Purabi Shah, a homemaker, adds, “This dance form is faster compared to jazz dancing. It has also been adapted to local tastes and needs in most dance classes in the city.”
 
 It works on your muscles, improves flexibility and boosts your cardiovascular health. 
 
 
 
 Urban hip-hop was introduced to basically simplify the original style of the street dance in urban areas. “To make it more girl-savvy, since the dance includes jumping and high-energy movements,” says Aakash Karnataky, choreographer and contemporary dancer. Hip-hop culture started among the youth in the Bronx, New York in the 1970s. It is a movement that represents the youth and the freedom to learn, grow, and evolve. But for you to 
  hip-hop, you must actively participate in the culture. The four main elements of a hip-hop culture are deejaying (music), emceeing (rapping), graffiti (writing/art), and breaking (dance). Ritu Desai, a fashion designer, finds the dance a tad difficult. She says, “People usually look at the steps and think, 'I can do this.' Of course, anyone can do steps, but that style? Nah! It’s difficult and challenging.”
 
 It is an aerobic exercise, helps reduce unhealthy fat and strengthens your immune system too.
 
 
 
 You are freaked when you are told that you have to dance in high heels. But the youngsters in the city, specially girls, are fascinated with dancing in high heels. You don’t put your boots or sneakers, but dance in high heels.  , says, “The movement has a lot of swag and it is more of a feminine dance form. While the men wear jackets, 
 and dance hip hop, women across age groups of 13-21 wear their stilettoes and dance.”  , who dances regularly, says, “Hip-hop in heels is a welcome space for women who are not dancers to come to class, feeling comfortable and un-intimidated.” 
 
 Since this dance form involves doing squats in heels, it allows you to work on your balance, your core, your posture and your legs.
 
 
 
 Bollywood dancing reached a saturation point with choreographers and dance instructors being signed up for 
 nights and dance competitions in the city. While it is still crazily followed abroad, people in   specially have again started making demands for it. Aakash adds, “People in South Mumbai who found Bollywood dancing passe and crass are asking for it again, specially the filmi styles after the 90s.”
 
 This dance form boosts co-ordination and rhythm, tones the body, giving it a full body workout and is great for relieving stress.
 
  
  
 
 
