KOCHI: Residents living on both sides of   national highway are living in a state of fear due to recurring accidents, both major and minor, occurring on this stretch almost every other day. 

 They assemble on the road to protest after every major accident in which people lose their near and dear ones.
 
 The accidents also deprive sleep of many residents and people have even given amusing names to these accident-prone areas.
 
 In Peruvaram, one of the accident-prone areas identified by the Natpac in their operation study report, residents have named a curve 'Idimoola' due to recurring accidents. People also complain that they are forced to wait for at least 10 minutes to cross the road due to heavy traffic.
 
 The unscientific laying of asphalt on the road increased the height of to two feet above the footpath causing the vehicles to skid. "Two to three accidents occur every week in the stretch between Vazhikulangara to Peruvaram alone. There is a curve in Poojarippady where vehicles crash. We call it 'Idimoola'. If power gets cut during midnight, we realize that a vehicle has knocked down the electric posts here," said V A Prabhavathy teacher, a resident of Peruvaram and former councillor of   municipality.
 
 Eight months ago two brothers met with an accident in Varapuzha.
 
  The fourth standard student was killed in front of the eyes his elder brother who was a plus two student. "The accident mentally affected the teenager and he often leaves the class without informing his teachers. He says he wanted to buy biscuits for his brother. This is not an isolated incident in Varapuzha. Many families bear the brunt of accidents on the national highway and we want an end to this problem at the earliest," said Jessy Lalu, councillor of Kochal.
 
 In Kochal, which is in another accident-prone area in Kottuvally panchayat, residents are demanding a speedy solution to stop accidents on the highway. 
 
 If another death due to accident happens on the highway in Kochal, residents are planning to use the dead body to block the road as a mark of protest. "As per the RTI information we collected one month ago, 160 people especially youngsters lost their lives on 24km stretch from Varapuzha to Moothakunnam from June 2007 to December 2016. Besides losing lives, many families are facing hardships due to the treatment cost of their close one who suffered severe injuries including fracture on backbone, on the highway. This forced us to launch a protest one-hour-long on all Sundays," said  , chairman of the  , south zone.
 
