Though caretaker   Panneerselvam might be BJP's preferred choice, the party sees the Centre playing a crucial role irrespective of which faction in the AIADMK succeeds in the CM stakes.

 BJP feels that any successor regime in Tamil Nadu needs central assistance in dealing with issues such as drought after a poor north-east monsoon and the strained finances of the state which is battling a large revenue deficit.
 
 The party expects   to challenge the manner in which PWD and highways minister Edappady K Palanisamy was declared leader of the AIADMK legislative party and expects the scenario to become clearer when party MLAs leave the resort where they are holed up.
 
 “We need to see how many of the MLAs who signed in favour of Palanisamy stick to their stand or turn up at Panneerselvam's residence,“ said a senior BJP leader.
 
 Palanisamy is not a pushover either, as he has been one of a handful of senior AIADMK legislators to be given important portfolios by the late J Jayalalithaa. From the Gounder caste, he is part of an important section of the party base.
 
 While BJP feels the conflicting claims may yet result in governor Vidyasagar Rao calling for a composite floor test, the party is readying to do business with whichever faction emerges on top.
 
 Some in BJP expect AIADMK legislators to support Panneerselvam once Sasikala is out of the scene but admit that party members will be driven by a desire to avoid an election, having barely served out a year of their term.
 
 Soon after calling on PM Narendra Modi after taking over as TN chief minister, Panneerselvam made no bones about being cordial towards RSS which has been active in the state but has not been able to translate its presence in po litical terms with BJP remaining a small party .
 
 Panneerselvam belongs to the Thevar community , whose prominent leader Muthuramlinga was known for proximity with the RSS, another reason for the CM being seen as hailing from a community that has not been averse to the saffron party . It was during the NDA dispensation in October 2002 when the life-size statue of the Thevar leader was installed in Parliament House.
 
 “BJP is ready to help the next government if the AIADMK sets up a pro-people and development oriented government led by a honest and clean leader,“ BJP general secretary Muralidhar Rao, who is the party's in-charge for southern states, said.
 
 Terming, the Supreme Court verdict as “historic“, Rao said this was a good opportunity for members of the AIADMK to introspect and choose an honest and clean leader. “We believe that the Tamil Nadu governor will take a judicious decision in choosing the leader who will be the next head of the state government,“ he said.
 
 Guv should call AIADMK for govt formation: Cong
 
 As the Supreme Court judgment threw N Sasikala out of the chief ministerial race in Tamil Nadu, Congress asked the governor to call AIADMK for government formation, with a composite vote in case of two claimants to power. Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “BJP and Modi government should now stop fishing in troubled waters. Role of the governor, which has been circumspect in this entire episode, must now become clear and the Constitution must prevail. The governor must forthwith call a special session of the Tamil Nadu Vidhan Sabha to permit the ruling party, including more than one claimant if any, to prove their majority.“ 
 
