 or violence in   were unheard of when   was a student of   in the 1980s. Though he was never a part of campus politics in college, the actor says that things have changed a lot over years and the incidents or problems on campus now reflect the changes that the society is undergoing.

  He says he doesn't know much about the recent   row in DU and the protest marches that followed when the college cancelled  's visit citing security reasons. "I do not really follow politics in Delhi University anymore and even as a student of DU, I stayed away from politics. I was interested in arts. But I know a bit about politics," he says. The actor adds, "There were agitations and difference of opinions when I was studying and they exist now. From then to now, I don't think the core or the basis of debate or difference of opinion has changed. But I think what is happening on campus at present is a reflection of the change in society. As a society we have started reacting very sharply to everything. I am not in favour of sharp reactions, because I completely believe that there should be a place for opinions, there should be a debate on difference of opinions and no one should shut that debate."
 
 Continuing, he said, "Social media has started to play a big role now in the way we debate. Initially, sharp reactions were not on a public platform. Public platform always has a decorum, you do not get on a stage and start abusing people or start talking about personal issues, whereas, on social media today, people have the platform but there is no decorum, so anyone and everyone is passing a judgment or giving a sharp reaction, which is slightly annoying. Delhi University was vibrant. I am thankful that I was able to see the campus life then as it really taught me a lot. Whatever we talked about, agreed upon or disagreed with has formed our personalities. Also, I have one request for the students, something that I keep telling myself too – whenever we take up the baggage of talking about serious subjects, think, do you really need to? Do you know enough about it? It is not a party where you have to make an impression. Know what you are talking about. Talking about something without knowing the depth of it or just reacting to something just for the heck of it is also wrong, we all should be little more responsible in the way we react."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Saurabh started his theatre work as a student in Delhi and has been coming to the city to perform on stage often, but he says that his theatre work in Delhi is very limited now. "I don't identify with theatre in Delhi at present. There can be two possible reasons of it – first, I am not doing it right now, and second, the pressure of life has increased enormously. In my time, the condition wasn't such that you have to earn a lot of money to survive in this world. I survived for years without money and I was not looked down upon. Today, somehow, if you do not earn, society looks down upon you and it is a sheer pressure of money. We are driven by money. People ask me, 'Didn't you waste a lot of time in theatre?' Yes I did, but I had conversations for 12 hours, we fought over strange things, but that has carved the person I am today and made me see the world the way I see it. I have my roots in Delhi, my mother stays here, I keep coming here often, but not so much for theatre now," he says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
