AMRITSAR: Former BJP MP Navjot Singh Sidhu formally joining the Congress on Sunday sent his ex-colleagues in SAD-BJP into tizzy, especially the poll strategists for Amritsar East assembly constituency from where Sidhu may contest the assembly elections. Sidhu is set to arrive in the city on Monday after a long gap.

 BJP candidate from Amritsar East Rajesh Huny, who is also district president of the party, held an emergency meeting at his election office in the assembly constituency on Sunday to redesign his poll strategy.
 
 Sidhu’s wife Dr   is MLA from the assembly segment. Fighting on BJP ticket in the 2014 assembly elections, she had defeated an independent candidate Simerpreet Kaur with a margin of 7,099 votes. Kaur had consistently been blaming SAD for scuttling projects in her constituency and not giving her required funds.
 
 SAD district (urban) president Gurpartap Singh Tikka told TOI, “She claims of carrying out massive development work in her constituency but whatever funds were used were given by the ruling government, she can’t lie to the people of constituency.” Minor differences of grant of funds was common with every constituency in Punjab, he said, after attending the meeting called by Huny.
 
 He said SAD-BJP combine in Amritsar had been preparing keeping in mind the prospects of Sidhu contesting the elections from here.
 
 “He will count on his merits to win, but we will also tell his demerits to the people of the constituency. The main one is his absence from his peoples,” he said. He said that Sidhu would have an advantage due to his celebrity status.
 
 Wife confirms Amritsar East plan
 
 Navjot Kaur Sidhu said that her husband had final discussion with   vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday night and on Sunday he had joined the party. She reiterated that her husband would contest elections from Amritsar East assembly constituency.
 
 Responding to chief minister   allegations that Sidhu had joined hands with a party that was blamed for an attack on   in 1984, she accused the Akalis of stirring up peoples’ emotion during elections.
 
 
