THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The survey undertaken by the   to identify   people in the state which began on Saturday will be completed within a month, said   executive director S Harikishore. 

 The survey is part of the Life Mission project announced by the LDF government to provide homes for all homeless people in the state within five years. A high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday decided to launch an intensive campaign to promote donation of land for the mission from October 2.
 
 The beneficiaries in 93 urban local bodies, 87 municipalites and six corporations would be identified in a month, said Binu Francis, Kudumbashree SUH project officer. To ensure shelter for homeless under NULM, the central share is 60% and state share is 40%. The state offers 100 percent subsidy to the shelterless, he said.
 
 "In the primary survey conducted across the state, 5.06 lakh beneficiaries have been identified," said T K Jose, principal secretary, local self-government department.
 
 The state government wants to solve the housing problem by coordinating various schemes for urban and rural homeless with central support such as the Prime Minister's Awas Yojana (PMAY) and Shelter for the Urban Homeless (SUH) under National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) project, he said.
 
 "The rural beneficiaries will be identified at the gramasabha level and urban beneficiaries at the ward level. If the beneficiaries are left out they can appeal. There would be two opportunities for appeal. The list of beneficiaries in each district will be finalised by the district collector," Jose said. The beneficiaries would be finalised based on eight risk factors.
 
 "There would be separate schemes for construction for the homeless with land and homeless without land. Of the 2,000 acres land required for the project, we have identified only 123 acres," he said.
 
 In addition to mobilising funds for the project from industrial organisations and companies, the state will avail loan on behalf of the beneficiary. The   will pay principal amount while the interest burden will be shared by the state for the next five years. 
 
