PATNA: The Congress leadership is keen on sorting out its differences with JD (U) that have cropped up following CM Nitish Kumar’s refusal to support the opposition-backed Congress’s presidential pick  .
 
  Congress has called a meeting of 17 opposition parties in Delhi on July 11. Sources said Nitish as the JD (U)’s president would also be invited.
  
  Sources in the “grand old party” claimed   was keen on meeting Nitish. The Congress vice-president is learned to have asked   chief and state education minister  , who met him in Delhi on Tuesday, to prevent further mudslinging. He also warned of action against party workers berating the Bihar CM.
  
  The JD (U) seems to be reciprocating as it has decided to support the vice-presidential nominee of Congress-led opposition. “The JD (U)’s decision to support NDA’s presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind was a one-off instance... The party is otherwise committed to opposition unity,” said a senior JD (U) functionary.
  
  Congress insiders said the main agenda of the July 11 meeting was in accordance with Nitish’s recent call to opposition parties to come up with an “alternative narrative” instead of indulging in “reactionary politics” against BJP. “The meet will deliberate on farmers’ suicide, incidents of mob lynching and growing unemployment, among other things,” said a Congress functionary.
  
  The meet may also discuss the opposition’s candidate for vice-president. The Election Commission of India on Tuesday issued a notification for the vice- presidential election to be held on August 5.
  
  JD (U)’s national general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI on Thursday the party would support the vice-presidential candidate nominated by the Congress-led opposition. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a meeting of opposition parties on July 11. We have been informed an invite to the meet would be shortly sent to Nitish as they are keen on his participation,” Tyagi said.
  
  Nitish on Sunday termed Congress as the “weakest link” in the opposition. Senior Congress functionary  , who had earlier panned Nitish for supporting NDA’s presidential candidate, said on Thursday, “Nitish is with Congress.”
