Over the last few days, the early morning temperature in the city has been fluctuating between 6 and 7 degrees. But while schools have considerately shifted   from 
  to around 
 , colleges don’t seem to be following suit. Certain colleges in   continue to begin as early as 
 , with students having to   from 
  onwards to get to college on time. 

 
 
 
 A large number of youngsters from Mhow, Dewas and Ujjain shuttle between Indore and their cities on a daily basis. Tosha Choudhry, an MBA student of   college, shares, “I commute from Dewas to Indore and have to leave home at 
 . And if we are late, there’s no excuse even if we are coming from a different town.” Another MBA MS student, from IIPS College, Umang Jain commutes from Airport road on his two-wheeler. Explaining that one has to ride very slow because it is cold, he says, “If we are late even by 10 minutes, we have to skip the lecture and can only attend the next lecture.”
 IMS, DAVV holds its first lecture for MBA core students at 
 . To deal with the situation, students have started going late in groups. “Obviously the teacher can’t teach an empty class. When almost all the students are entering late, the staff are bound to allow us to enter. We want to give a 
 written request to our HOD to postpone the first lecture by some time,” says a student who did not wish to be named. Manish Ramnani, a student of the same college adds, “
  is too early in this weather. It takes a good 15 minutes just to heat water to bathe.”
 
 Most of the engineering colleges in the city are situated on the outskirts and these colleges hold classes as early as 
 . Sarthak Gupta, a student of Acropolis Institute of Technology and Research says, “My classes start at 
  and my bus arrives at 
 . If I miss the bus, I have to ride 30 kms. So I have to brave the cold water at 
 .”
 
 
 
 
 Chandan Gupta senior faculty of EMRC College, DAVV, feels that the ideal time to start classes in winter is 
 . “But there a few colleges that hold sessions from 
 , which should definitely be shifted to 
 . Also, if the students are coming from long distances then the college should actually be considerate towards them and should allow them to attend the class,” says Chandan. And Dr Sonalee Nargunde, senior faculty of SJMC College, DAVV, says that considerations can be given to some students. “We do give leverage to students if they are actually trying to be regular to class. But there are some students who come only once in a week and are late even then,” Sonalee points out.
 
