Vadodara: The   needs to be more proactive to become a model for the entire country. 

 This is what renowned architect Karan Grover, whose Heritage Trust played a critical role in preparing the management plan and the UNESCO dossier which resulted in Champaner-Pavagadh becoming Gujarat’s first world heritage site, said here on Sunday. 
 
 Grover, who was one of the eight speakers from Vadodara, Mumbai and Delhi to speak at TEDx Sayajigunj organised by students of M  , said that the UNESCO-declared World Heritage Site combines religious tourism and recorded heritage of 2,000 years belonging to Rajputs, Jains, re-Sultanate and post-Sultanate era.
 
 “We got a legislation passed by the Gujarat government for the Champaner-Pavagadh Development Authority. This authority has the right to develop the whole site and become a model for the whole of India as there is no single authority for development of world heritage sites elsewhere. But the authority is not taking proactive initiatives,” he said. 
 
 “If the development authority becomes more active, it will be a huge bonus for heritage. There are 6,000 families living in the area. Their young children can become guides, their wives can manage stalls to offer food for tourists and a sense of ownership of this heritage should be developed amongst people so that it does not get damaged,” he said. 
 
 The site, with archaeologically sensitive 16th century Rajput and sultanate structures, temples, mosques and legends surrounding it was declared a world heritage by UNESCO in 2004.
 
 Graphologist  , who was amongst the other speaker at the event, said that corporate sector has now started demanding handwritten resumes from job applicants. 
 
 “Graphology is a science which indicates personality of a person. Many in the corporate sector have now started seeking handwritten biodatas to ascertain personality traits of an applicant,” she said. 
 
 MSU’s former vice-chancellor professor Anil Kane, technocrat  , professor Diwakar Vaish from Delhi, professor Samish Dalal, master storyteller   and business collaborator Esha Manwani from Mumbai were amongst the other speakers.
 
 
