Trichy: Farmers in the district are left in the lurch as they are unable to purchase fertilizers such as   and potash, as the concerned Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Societies (PACCS) have not been allotted a   registration number by the tax department. Farmers are being sent back by the PACCS authorities stating that they cannot generate bills with GST.

 Considering the low water storage in the Mettur reservoir, the state government has announced Rs 56.92 crore as kuruvai package to enable farmers to take up short-term crops during the month of June. The government has taken the decision to increase the total coverage of paddy considerably to compensate the previous year’s paddy harvest which was affected owing to severe drought. 
 
 In Trichy, district farmers have taken up kuruvai paddy cultivation wherever the ground water is available such as Lalgudi, Mannachanallur and some parts of Anthanallur union in the district. As farmers are busy with transplantation of paddy nursery, this is the time to apply urea and potash. But they are not getting the required   from their respective PACCS, they alleged. 
 
 “Farmers from Lalgudi taluk alone have carried out kuruvai paddy cultivation on 10,000 to 15,000 acres, apart from sugarcane and banana cultivation on around 5,000 acres. This is the time to apply urea and potash for paddy crops and also for cane and banana,” said N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam. 
 
 Farmers hailing from various villages in Lalgudi taluk including Neikuppai, Nagar, Aangarai and Lalgudi could not get fertilizer for their crops. Whenever they approached PACCS, authorities keep saying that due to non-generation of GST number they could not sell fertilizer. For the same reason the authorities from TANFED – where PACCSs purchase fertilizer, refuse to clear their order, he added. 
 
 In some other places, though PACCSs have already got the number, the concerned employees were not yet trained to calculate GST. So, they have temporarily stopped selling fertilisers, said Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organiser of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress.
 
 “We have applied to the concerned tax department for the GST number. Since we have not yet received the same, we could not sell fertilizer to farmers. However, we have the required volume of stock. Once the GST issue gets cleared, there would not be any confusion on the sale of the same”, sources from the societies said. 
 
 When contacted, joint registrar of cooperative department K C Ravichandran told TOI that he has so far not yet received any such complaints. “I will instruct the officials to look into the matter and ask the concerned PACCSs to distribute fertilizers,” he further said. 
 
 
