NAGPUR: The  , on the occasion of their ‘Bharat bandh’ on Monday, returned with violence in the tribal district of   in the early hours of Monday when they set a forest depot on fire near Rompalli, around 30km away from Sironcha, inflicting a loss of more than Rs15 lakhs to the state exchequer. The reds also managed to disrupt traffic flow on the   highway. It was a revival of naxal violence after a 66-day lull following the Surjagarh arson where 80 vehicles were gutted down by rebels last year. 

 As the cops were basking in the just concluded zero-incidence local civic body election of Gadchiroli, the rebels returned to prove their presence in the affected part of the southern district raising the concern of the security forces. The naxals, who stormed the vulnerable target with a strength of around 20-25 armed cadres, also left behind several pamphlets and banners targeting the BJP-led government and relentless actions of the security forces under the label of ‘operation green hunt’. It was protesting the ‘operation green hunt’ that the Naxalites had called Bharat Bandh. 
 
 Deputy conservator of forest, Tushar Chavan, Sironcha division, said that the Naxalites had tied up two ‘chowkidars’ with trees before going ahead with the arson. “The security personnel were left tied for around an hour before a forest guard reached the place learning about the arson. The cops were subsequently alerted for reporting the loss. We are still calculating the magnitude of the loss,” he said. “There were mixed types of woods which were set on fire including sagwan,” he said. 
 
 It was reliably learnt that the Naxalites intercepted the vehicles passing on the road to fetch petrol and diesel from them before using it to set the woods on fire. Naxalites later chopped trees to lay them across the Nagpur-Sironcha road blocking the carriageway. The reds also tied their banners across the trees. Police later claimed that the trees were removed before there was heavy traffic flow. 
 
 A section of the security forces have claimed that possibly a combined strengths of Platoon 14 and Sironcha Dalam is learnt to be behind the arson. An offence has been registered at Bamni police station. 
 
 
