A Goa picnic for a group of eight friends from   turned tragic as seven were killed and one was critically injured on their way home. Their car veered off the Mumbai-Goa highway, NH-66, plunged down a slope and crashed into a tree early morning on Wednesday. The accident spot is in Ratnagiri district. The impact of the hit was so great that the car was mangled, crushing its occupants. Every year, over 1,000 accidents occur on the highway, the deadliest in the state. Widening NH66, a promise overdue, will take at least four years more.

 Highway police said the person driving the vehicle, a Mahindra Xylo, probably dosed off at the wheel. The highway at the point where the accident occurred is only 60 feet wide (a little over 18m) and has an additional 6 feet (1.8m) of service lanes.Since the margin of error was low and since there were no railings there, the car met its fate within moments.
 
 The car, which was coming from Goa, went into the opposite lane before going off the road. The jackfruit tree into which it crashed was six feet down a slope. Motorists will have to wait for at least four years for a wider and safer Mumbai-Goa highway .Also called National Highway 66 (NH66), the two-lane road tops all highways in the state in fatal mishaps.
 
 Work on the 84km PanvelIndapur stretch under the central government's highway widening programme (under the National Highways Authority of India) has finally begun after six years of delay caused by financial troubles faced by the contractor, Supreme Infra.
 
 Work on the remaining stretch of the 480km highway may begin this year as 80% of land acquisition is expected to get over. The work is to be undertaken on six major stretches beyond Indapur (towards Goa), excluding the Kashedi ghat section, where a detailed project report for building a tunnel is underway , say highway authorities. The project cost for NH66's widening is Rs 6,000 crore.
 
 “Our contractors are ready for the six stretches, which comprise 260km of NH66, but we are waiting for land acquisition to get over to issue them the commencement letter. I hope this gets done by Marchend,“ a senior official with the highway maintenance wing of the   told TOI. Even if the work starts, it will take at least four years to complete.
 
 Built in the British period NH66 is still strong enough to carry traffic and is one of the busiest national highways in the country . A 391km stretch which passes through hilly terrain and over rivers and creeks is actually a two-lane road.Work on expansion of 84km between Panvel and Indapur, approved in 2011, will take two years for completion. In a study for 2006 to 2012, it was found that the highway saw 7,721mishaps in which 1,731 travelers were killed. Many vehicles take the Pune-Satara-Kolhapur route to reach Sindhudurg.
 
 Moreover, NH66 does not have trauma centres or wellequipped ambulances resulting in increased casualties due to lack of timely medical aid.“At spots, we have installed signs to warn of narrow bridges, etc. Such spots will be safer only when the expansion programme is implemented,“ said an official.
 
 
 
 
 Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari played a key role in reviving the NH66 widening project in the Panvel-Indapur stretch by extending Rs 540cr from  's kitty. The contractor will now have to share initial toll collection with NHAI. The firm­Supreme Infra's Panvel-Indapur Tollways Ltd--spent Rs 450 crore , but due to delays in permissions, SBI-led bankers stopped funding. The contract was awarded in 2010-11.The contractor was given 21 years to recover the cost of road building and maint enance. But the loans stopped to avoid rising interests and liabilities because of the delays. SBI is giving around 70% of the cost of Rs 1,200 crore. The rest has come from SPV partners.
 
