THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city police on Tuesday recorded the arrest of  , the youth accused of massacring four members of his family. He was charged with sections 302 (murder), 436 (causing mischief by fire explosives) and 201 (destruction of evidence) under IPC.He is being interrogated by the police and will be produced before the court on Wednesday.

 Deputy Commissioner of Police   said that the cops were unsure about the real motive of the crime.
 
 “While there is clarity in the sequence of the crime described by him, that cannot be said about his statements on the motive of the crime,“ the   said.
 
 The police employed the service of an expert psychiatrist during the interrogation session as they suspected that the youth had psychiatric problems.
 
 As per his statement, Cadell killed his parents and sister on Wednesday. Everyone of them were bludgeoned and hacked separately using a hatchet, which he bought online recently. His mother Dr Jean Padma was his first victim. She was killed in the upstair bedroom while his father and sister were away. His father   and sister   were killed in the same manner after they reached home separately. The murders, according to statement by Cadell, happened when Jean Padma's aunt Lalitha Jain and housemaid   were present in the first floor of the house.
 
 Following the murders, he cleaned the floor deftly, wiping away all the blood. On Friday night, he took Lalitha Jain upstairs and killed her in another room.
 
 Cadell left the cops in the interrogation team baffled when he told them that he exterminated his family in a bid to perform astral projection, a mystic ritual that allows him to communicate with souls that depart dead bodies.
 
 “He told us that performing astral projection gave him extra strength which helped him push his physical and intellectual limits,'' Arul B krishna said. He has also told the police that the charred dummy found in his room was not used to derail the pursuit. He used it to practice the murders. “The dummy might have got burnt when he set the bodies on fire'', the DCP said.
 
