Mumbai: Muslim groups denounced the recent dastardly attack on Amarnath  , terming it inhuman, anti-Islamic and aimed to stoke communal clashes in the country. Staging dharnas and   meets, community leaders and activists expressed condolences to families of the bereaved and solidarity with the yatris who have refused to be cowed down by the terror and continued their pilgrimage.

 Muslim leaders and groups converged at Azad Maidan on Wednesday to stage a protest with the hashtag #NotInMyName in the same spirit that people had stepped out a fortnight ago to condemn lynchings in the name of cow protection. Chants of “Aatankwad pe halla bol” rent the air as protestors held placards that read ‘Terrorists can never terrorise us’. “Nothing justifies violence as a means to resolution of social conflicts. We denounce all perpetrators of mob terror and bomb terror, irrespective of their religious affiliation,” said Javed Anand of Indian   for Secular Democracy (IMSD), one of the groups at the protest. “The attack on innocent pilgrims is clearly to fuel fires of communalism. While we denounce the terror attack, we also salute the bus driver, Salim Shaikh, who showed extraordinary courage to save lives of around 50 Hindu pilgrims,” said M A Khalid of All-India Milli Council.
 
 Islamic scholar Zeenat Shaukat Ali rejected any justification that terrorists may give for the cowardly attack. “Islam rejects attacks on non-combatants. The fact that these were pilgrims makes the attack more heinous and inhuman. They have sullied the name of religion which they invoke but indulge in irreligious acts,” said Ali.
 
 Many said the attack was aimed at stoking widespread social unrest in the country. “The terrorists wanted to throw India into a communal cauldron but Indians are mature enough not to fall into this trap and will defeat the nefarious design by staying together,” said BJP city vice-president Haider Azam. “The perpetrators will go straight to jahanum (hell) as they killed and injured pilgrims who had nothing to do with conflicts in Kashmir,” commented Congress city unit vice-president Zakir Ahmed.
 
 The All-India Ulema Board, along with Dalit outfit Mission Asha, prayed for the victims of the attack and plans to a massive morcha against all violence at New Delhi’s Jantar Mantar on July 20.
 
