PANAJI: Stating that currently schools have become places for students to come, eat and go, Union minister for human resource development, Prakash Javadekar said his ministry is drafting a bill that will grant states the power to detain students in fifth or eighth standards. 

 “Schools have become mid-day meal places. Aana, Khana aur Jaana. There is no accountability and although there is continuous evaluation, there is no stopping. As such, we find that a sixth standard student cannot understand maths of third standard. This year, all schools will have learning outcomes on their walls and it will be given to all parents. Everyone will be held accountable. We will allow states to detain the students after giving them a fair chance,” Javadekar said while inaugurating the Dempo College of Commerce and Economics, adding that the students will be assessed in March and then again in June. 
 
 Javadekar also announced that the ministry has issued show cause notices to 6,500 colleges providing B Ed and D Ed degrees for not submitting their affidavits. 
 
 “We are shutting the teacher training shops that are currently running and have got affidavits of 6,500 colleges. The remaining 6,500 have been served show cause notices. We are strict on this and will ensure that there are good teachers in place,” he said, adding that 10th board examination has been brought back and the move has been welcomed. 
 
 Talking about the reforms taken in the higher education sector, Javadekar said that the government is working towards creating more focus on innovation and new product creation.
 
 “It is our vision to create 20 world class universities. During Manohar Parrikar’s days at IIT, students could not give hostel room as their address. We have allowed that now and more than 400 start-ups have started from IIT hostels,” he shared, adding that incubation centers have been created in India’s premier institutes for students to work. 
 
 The minister also revealed that the ministry is working to create different categories within the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). “The ranking is done not to look down upon anyone, but to inculcate a healthy competition. We will create categories for small universities as well,” he said.
 
 Affirming with the HRD minister’s comments, vice chancellor of  , Varun   said that despite falling from 20th to 64th ranking, the university has performed the best among small universities. 
 
 “Arithmetically, our ranking is same as we ranked 20th among 232 and now 64th among 724. I have already created a task force to analyze how four universities, which were behind us last year have gone ahead. Vacancy is a factor and currently there are 44% seats vacant for professors. We need to fill it up,” he said.
 
