MOHALI: This city of red-light jumpers, helmetless bikers, and rash drivers doesn’t give a hoot about road safety. They risk their life, veer over medians, and cock a snook at traffic police. The new plan is to “catch these offenders young”. Traffic violations are most frequent at the major intersection of Phases 7 and 8, called   after the nearby Gurdwara Amb Sahib, where the green light starts a mad race to the front of the queue and opens a new route from over the divider. There’s no traffic cop at the busy junction. His being there is futile anyway. The moment the two-wheelers enter the Mohali jurisdiction from Chandigarh, the helmets come off to the forearm, as the bikes zip past the traffic cops. The city’s most congested road, which runs from Phase 3 to 11, through major markets and residential areas, is where maximum accidents occur. “Mohali is a model case for a city that needs road-safety training,” deputy commissioner   said. “We want to start with schoolchildren and teachers.” Teachers, she hopes, will pass on the lessons to students. The committee for implementing the training plan includes assistant commissioner (general) Jasvir Singh, district transport officer  , district education officer (secondary) Surinder Singh Sidhu, DEO (elementary) Bhagwant Singh, road safety coordinator (in the office of the Punjab transport commissioner)  , and TRAX roadsafety organisation president   of Delhi. “The first phase of training will be for a teacher each from the district’s government and private schools. The next phases will cover all teachers. This training will be free of cost, sponsored by TRAX,” Sapra said. For proper implementation, teachers will be clubbed in blocklevel clusters of 20 to 25. These master trainers will educate the other teachers, and they all will take the message to the students. Six government buildings will serve as training centres, where representatives from TRAX will educate the participants through slide presentations. Nodal officers from the police and education departments will select the first batch of teachers based on their efforts to promote road safety

