As the crucial seven-phased elections in Uttar Pradesh got underway on Saturday, the Censor Board of Film Certification ( ) has refused certification to  , citing 'direct and indirect references' to politics in UP.
Produced by Khalid   and directed by Ranjeet Gupta, the film was scheduled for January 13, but due to  's demise a week before, the release was pushed to February. Now, with the CBFC, which viewed the film twice, refusing to clear it, Kidwai has decided to appeal to the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT).
 
 The film was submitted to the Examining Committee on December 9, 2016 and was turned down. It was then viewed by a Revising Committee, headed by CBFC chairman Pahlaj Nihalani, again it was a 'no'. In its letter, the CBFC stated, 'The theme of the film is based on rape. The film is explicit with abusive language. There are directindirect references to politics.'
 
 The members found certain 'adult conversation degrading to women'.They also pointed to double meaning dialogue and provocative lines with respect to caste and community. 'The theme and presentation is not suitable for public exhibition and hence recommended `refusal' of certificate under the guidelines,' states the letter issued by the CBFC to Atlantic Adventure Ltd.
 
 Kidwai defends his film, saying it deals with Uttar Pradesh's real politics and local politicians. 'The backward classes and Dalit voters are used for political gains. The government makes schemes for their upliftment and corrupt politicians and bureaucrats reap the benefits. To take advantage of compensation given to rape victims from backward classes, fake rape cases are registered regularly and the money shared by local politicians and bureaucrats,' he informs, adding his film highlights such issues in a satirical manner.
 
 Puri plays the central character, Omprakash, a compounder, while Kulbhushan Kharbanda is Rajasaheb, who according to Nihalani bears a striking resemblance to PM  .'That's not true,' protests Kidwai. 'The Censor Board has refused certification due to the film's bold dialogues and political references.'
 
 When contacted, Nihalani refused to comment on the issue saying he did not wish to add anything more to the letter issued to the producer.
 
