NEW DELHI: With the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir still not assessed as conducive to holding an election, the bypoll to   assembly constituency may have to wait until October, when the end of summer usually sees a dip in terrorist activity. The bypoll, originally scheduled for April 12 this year, was postponed by the   (EC) to May 25 due to security concerns, before being cancelled on May 2.

 "Though its been two months since the bypoll was cancelled, the situation is still not conducive in Anantnag constituency that covers four districts. It will possibly be a better idea to wait until October to hold the bypoll as not only are the levels of terrorist violence expected to ebb with the onset of winter but also the busy tourist season as well as religious events like Amarnath yatra would be over, sparing adequate Central para -military troops for poll deployment," a senior EC functionary told TOI.
 
 Incidentally, the other postponed assembly bypoll — in the R K Nagar constituency in Tamil Nadu, left vacant by the death of   chief minister   — may be held earlier than the one in Anantnag. EC will soon take a call on scheduling the R K Nagar bypoll, cancelled in April on account to large-scale bribery of voters by the contesting parties.
 
 "The R K Nagar bypoll cannot be delayed indefinitely. We will discuss setting a fresh date," said the EC official.
  
 According to sources in the Commission, the warring factions of AIADMK — AlADMK Puratchi Thailavi Amma (led by O Panneerselvam) and AIADMK Amma (led by T T V Dinakaran and Sasikala) — will contest on the separate poll symbols allotted to them after the AIADMK's "two-leaves" poll symbol was frozen pending an EC decision on which of the two factions is rightful claimant to the party'a name and symbol.
 
 According to sources in EC, there is now a third claimant to the AIADMK's legacy and symbol — Jayalalithaa's niece Deepa Jayakumar. "We now have to decide which of the three factions is the real AIADMK," said an EC official.
  
 The hearing on the AIADMK symbol dispute is unlikely to start anytime soon, as the respective factions are yet to submit affidavits of all their members and office-bearers. Unlike in the SP case, where affidavits of MPs/MLAs/MLCs and party office-bearers sufficed to decide the matter, the AIADMK needs to submit affidavits of all its 1.5 crore members as the party constitution clearly says the party chief is to be elected by the general council.
 
 "It will take EC time to review all the affidavits, which are coming in by the truckloads," said an EC officer.
 
 A Nirvachan Sadan source said that though 2-3 trucks of affidavits were submitted to EC by each faction by June 15, a further four-week extension of the deadline was allowed by EC to submit the remaining affidavits.
 
 "It will also take us a long time to examine the 1.5 crore affidavits," said an EC official. 
 
 
 
