KOLKATA: The spate of attacks on Indians residing in the US continues. Close on the heels of three shooting incidents in which three Indians died and one was injured, a senior   executive’s home in Houston, Texas, was ransacked. According to a senior Wipro official, the incident has left the executive’s family traumatized and they want to return to India at the earliest. 

 In an internal communiqué circulated among senior executives, Wipro general manager (product engineering solutions) Ganesh Kumar Bukka wrote about the ‘horr-endous’ experience of an employee based in the US. The house of Sudipta, Wipro’s ABS head in Houston, was ransacked. The house is located in what was till then considered one of the nicest and safest communities.
 
 “We read about a few incidents in the media here, but looks like the undercurrents are many. Just sharing this with the group so that we sensitize our onsite employees to be watchful of the situation,” Bukka wrote. 
 
 "We understand that the incident that you are referring to, which took place last week, was a burglary attempt. A report has been filed with the local law enforcement authorities and investigation is underway. We are providing assistance to the employee and his family," Wipro said in a statement.
 
 Indians living in America said they had heard of the incident and were concerned over the frequency with which Indians were being targeted. Most of the incidents have been in states that are red and voted for Trump. But what is equally true is that robberies in Indian homes in the past in New Jersey, Texas and California could be linked to the reputation Indians have of keeping gold and valuables at home.
 
 While Indians would earlier flaunt their Indianness, now some of them think twice before going to any store or restaurant in ethnic wear. Some have even chosen not to grow a beard.
 
   , associate professor at the   in Tampa that has a strong Indian population comprising techies and academicians, though believes the incidents have spiked in past couple of years and coincide with Trump’s anti-immigration rhetoric during his campaign. 
 
 Rahul isn't surprised by the incident and says the undercurrent has always been simmering in the sub-surface level. 
 
 "Finally, overtly, the ethnic-epidemiologists got a job in Houston. Now this ‘ethnic-cleansing’ and/or ‘save- America from the extra-continental educated or uneducated immigrants’ movement will be fed, nourished, nurtured, protected and executed. Did anyone know how many homes of illegal immigrants have been attacked or postered or threatened? Its usually the well established homes! Should we feel insecure for our kids? Do you think elementary schools or universities are beyond this line of ethnocentrism?" wondered Chakraborty.
 
 Tejbir Singh Bhatia, who is doing his MS in management at the university, has become more vigilant after the shooting of  , a Sikh living in Kent, Washington. Prior to that, techie Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed in a Kansas City bar shooting while his friend and colleague Alok Madasani was injured. Both incidents are suspected to be 'hate crimes'. Another Indian, Harnish Patel, was shot and killed outside his home in Lancaster, South Carolina.
 
 "The events in the last week have saddened and shocked me. As an international student, I have always been under the impression that the US is a very welcoming country and my university has assured us that all international students are safe here. But after last week, I don’t know if that is 100% true. As a practising Sikh, I am vigilant, but unafraid. It is almost ironic that the land of immigrants has acted so xenophobic this past week. I am pretty sure America is better than what it has been lately," he said.
 
 His friend Sheran Dhillon is, however, not surprised by the re-run of 9/11 hate crimes when whites felt compelled to take matters into their own hands. driven by a fear of the unknown. 
 
 "Being Indian-American, I am simply reminded that no matter what you are, you are always your skin pigment first in this county. Maybe America isn’t ready to let go of its white supremacist past in order to be the melting pot people have claimed it to be. Trump as President definitely hinders the security of brown and black bodies, and I am sorry for all of us who continue to be wrongly persecuted due to our skin color and not our personal actions. To live in fear due to our skin colour is something I didn't think we would continue to pass on in 2017," he said.
 
 — With inputs from Shilpa Patankar in Bengaluru
 
 
