Panaji: Former   striker   has agreed to shoulder the responsibility of getting the goals for   in this edition of the   ( ).
 
  FC Goa suffered last season due to lack of sharpness in front of goal and the Goan franchise believes they will be in much better shape when the league kicks off later this year with the capture of the former Copa del Rey winner.
  
  The 34-year-old Corominas -- popularly known as Coro -- spent much of his time in Spain; in fact he spent the majority of his professional career with Espanyol, appearing in 200 competitive games for the club. Besides Espanyol, he also did duty for Elche in the La Liga with more than a hundred appearances and only left Spain for Cyprus where he donned the colours of Doxa Katokopias FC.
  
  Coro’s stats suggest he may not be as prolific a striker as some of the more famous names in La Liga but, to his record, he has some memorable goals. It was his goal that kept Espanyol in the La Liga when they scored a last-minute victory against Real Sociedad in the battle to stay alive in Spain’s premier football competition in 2005-06. Espanyol saved the drop, thanks to a goal from Coro. He was among the goals again in the Copa del Rey final the same year, this time coming off the bench to add his name to the scoresheet less than 10 minutes after he took the field against Real Zaragoza.
  
  In 2011, 10 years after he had made his debut for Espanyol reserves, he fell out of favour with his former teammate and then coach Mauricio Pochettino – now coach of English Premier League runners-up Tottenham Hotspur – and opted to join Osasuna on loan.
  
  He didn’t return to Espanyol even after his loan deal was over and instead chose to ply his trade with Girona (2011–2012), Elche (2012–2015) and Mallorca (2015–2016).
  
  Coro is the second Spanish player to have joined FC Goa, following in the footsteps of winger Manuel Arana. FC Goa’s coach this season, Sergio Lobera, a former Barcelona assistant coach, is also Spanish.
  
  FC Goa are likely to make an official announcement on Tuesday. “Another #Gaur coming soon, with over 250+ games played in LaLiga & Copa del Rey. Any guesses? #ForcaGoa,” the franchise tweeted, with at least one fan able to guess it correctly.
