A 20-year-old woman was run over by a bus driven by a temporary driver in Tirupur on Tuesday, shocking the public. The driver was identified as  ,   with bare minimum experience who was   

 As the transport strike entered the second day, inexperienced drivers were creating chaos on the roads unaware of the routes and fares. In Trichy, the government was so desperate to defeat the strike that it approached sand truck drivers to join private school bus drivers in operating government buses.
 
 As there was no sign of the government scaling down from its stand, a large number of bus drivers and conductors jumped into a protest in front of Pallavan Illam in Chennai. 
 
 The government grew frantic, striking employees stuck to their stand and signs of public losing patience marked the second day of the bus strike on Tuesday before it all climaxed in withdrawal of the protest.
 
 The Madurai high court bench order directing the trade unions of the state transport corporations to withdraw their strike acted as a catalyst forcing the striking crew to the dialogue table. It directed the chief secretary and the transport secretary to take action against the striking employees under the Essential Services Maintenance Act. 
 
 Inexperienced drivers, creating chaos on the roads unaware of the routes and fares, testing the patience of commuters did their part to soften the government's stand.
 
 Till then, the public were forced to depend on skeleton fleet of government buses, fleecing autos, mini buses operated in long distance routes and hitch hiking. Several passengers who hoped the situation would be better on the second day of the strike were surprised to find lesser buses than Monday. In Coimbatore only 22 % of the buses were running on Tuesday evening, down from 47 % in the morning compared to 50 % of buses on the previous day. Regional transport officials had roped in mini buses and vans for public transport, which helped to some extent.
 
 In Chennai and Trichy though, relatively more buses were operated. According to senior Metropolitan Transport Corporation officials, 1,545 buses were operated on Monday, which rose to nearly 1,900 on Tuesday. The Corporation has a fleet strength of 3,400 buses.
 
 Transport department was able to bring in more than 500 buses to Chennai from other places of the state. A senior transport department official said: "Most of the transport operators have sent their spare buses to the city and they have started arriving since Monday evening. Operation of these buses has begun from Tuesday morning."
 
 In chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy's native Salem,   said 97 % of the buses were operated.
 
 
