BHOPAL: The Koh-e-Fiza police finally cracked the mysterious murder and rape case of a 6-year-old girl, with the arrest of her father. The girl was found hanging at her house located in Barela village near   on March 15.

 Police arrested her 52-year-old father after DNA report from State Forensic Science Laboratory, Sagar which matched with semen found from the deceased. The man confessed to his crime stating he never believed the deceased was his daughter.
 
 He told police that he believed she was an illegitimate child born out of an extramarital affair. He raped her on March 15 and when she fell unconscious he hanged her body from the ceiling to make it look a suicide.
 
 ASP   said the deceased was the youngest of the five siblings. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling of a tin shed constructed on the terrace of the first floor in the evening on March 15. The kin projected that the deceased hanged herself while playing on the terrace.
 
 Former SP (North) Arvind Saxena who suspected the suicide theory from the very first day insisted on conducting the post-mortem of the deceased. Kin including the accused father were against the PM but after police counselling they agreed. He said that the height of the room was such that it was not possible for the girl to hang herself.
 
 Later in July, the regional forensic science laboratory report declared traces of semen found in the private parts of the deceased girl. Subsequently, a case on charges of rape and sodomy with murder under relevant section of IPC and POCSO act was registered.
 
 Saxena said he suspected the case from the very first day and therefore police took the samples of 11 suspects including her father. “Many senior and junior police officials were against my stand but my intuition said that something was wrong and I stood firm and has been vindicated,” said SP Saxena.
 
 The accused in his confession told police he hated the deceased. Hence, he planned the crime. On the day, the incident took place he asked his wife to go to market and gave her a long list of items to be purchased.
 
 Subsequently, he came home from his chicken shop quietly leaving his mobile there. His other daughters were busy playing and dancing to the beats of loud music while the deceased was playing on the terrace. He quietly went upstairs where he raped the girl and when she fell unconscious, he hanged her from the ceiling of the room located on terrace. He kept a heap of clothes under the body to make it look that the girl climbed on the pile to hang herself.
 
 He later returned to his shop as if nothing happened.
 
 Bhadouria said statements of the chicken shop employees confirmed that the accused left the shop for three long hours in the evening on March 15.
 
 Bhadouria said that the samples taken from the body were sent for testing to State Forensic Science Laboratory, Sagar along with the samples of 11 suspects for a DNA match. The samples of the father matched with the sample of semen found in the body of the deceased. As soon as the report was received the accused was detained and later arrested.
 
 
