We had told you about the cast of 
 ’s upcoming film   coming to Chand Baori in Abhaneri to shoot the climax. Now, we’ve learnt that the large-scale action sequence involves over 500 local women, who shot for it over two days with Sanjay,   and  . 

 Sharad, who is playing the villain in the film, shared his experience of shooting in the state and working with Sanjay. “My association with Rajasthan goes a long way back. My most successful show, 'Saat Phere – Saloni Ka Safar', was shot in Rajasthan. Recently, I shot for my TV show 'Koi Laut Ke Aya Hai' near Bikaner. Shooting for 'Bhoomi' at Chand Baori was an incredible experience. I have never seen such a beautiful step-well before; the narrow steps are aligned flawlessly with so much accuracy. We got some stunning frames at this location,” said Sharad, adding, “We crave for such locations where you get to enjoy the scenic beauty. In the night, all of us including Sanju baba would sit in the garden area of the hotel and gaze at the stars for some time before hitting the bed. You don’t get to experience that in Mumbai.”
 
 
  
  Aditi Rao Hydari (BCCL)
 
 
 Aditi, who plays Sanjay’s daughter, said, "I find Rajasthan beautiful and colourful. Chand Baori was a stunning location to shoot at. But it was hard to shoot in the heat. The sun literally burnt us. The dust and heat waves made it even worse. But cinematically, it is always worth it; the harder the terrain and climate, the more stunning and dramatic it looks on screen."
 
 
  
    and Sharad Kelkar in between shots (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Sharad told us that the hot climate didn’t trouble him much. 'I am from Gwalior which is at par with Rajasthan when it comes to the heat. From April to June, Gwalior experiences summer months with the temperature soaring to 46-47 degrees. Thus, my body is accustomed to such temperature," the actor shared.
 
 
  
  The film’s crew interacted with the women to explain the scene to them (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Sharad is a big fan of Rajasthani food, especially laal maas. The actor shared that one of the crew members got him laal maas from a restaurant in Jaipur, while they were busy shooting at Abhaneri village. Sharad along with Sanjay and Aditi also visited Mehandipur Balaji Temple to offer their prayers. "The crowd went berserk when they got to know that Sanjay was coming at Mehandipur Balaji Temple. I think, there were close to 3,000 people who had gathered at the temple just to catch a glimpse of the actor. That says a lot about the stardom Sanju baba has," Sharad said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
