LUCKNOW:   disposal system in the city has been paralysed for the past four days following strike by sanitary workers of   solid waste management plant.  , the new agency which took over on February 21 ran the plant for two days, but workers struck work on February 24 following non-payment of their long pending salaries by  , previous agency managing the processing units.

 As a result, the plant is shut completely and door-to-door collection is not being carried on in any ward out of the city while 1,300 metric tonne garbage generated everyday is either lying on the city streets or dumped in the outskirts.
 
 Most of the dumping grounds and collection spots are logged with huge piles of garbage, while residents are left with no choice but to dispose of their domestic waste in open.
 
 “Trash has not been lifted from the dump near my house for past several days and as a result, a stink hangs on the area all the time while dozens of stray animals feed on the mess. We have no choice but to deal with it,” said Sudha Sharma, a resident of Hazratganj.
 
 Though situation is similar in the entire city, responsible departments are busy passing the blame on each other.
 
 Over 150 permanent employees and 1,200 daily wagers have not received their monthly payment for the past three years. Ecogreen has given up saying its Jyoti Envirotech’s responsibility to clear the dues, while Charanjeet, the manager of Jyoti Envirotech has blamed   for not paying the tipping charges.
 
 “LMC is supposed to pay Rs 2 crore every month as tipping charges for removing 500 tonnes garbage processed in the plant before Ecogreen took charge. But instead of paying every month they give us money once in 5-6 months and as a result all payments get delayed. Yet, the corporation has to pay us Rs 10 crore of which Rs 1.5 crore has to be paid to the workers but we can only release the money when LMC clears our dues,” said Charanajeet Singh.
 
 Denying all accusations, LMC is blaming Jyoti Envirotech of holding the payments despite the corporation having paid over Rs 2 crore since the beginning of this year.
 
 Nodal officer Pankaj Bhusan, who is looking after implementation of Swachch Bharat guidelines in the city said, “LMC has given almost Rs 2 crore in several installments and most recently we have given them a cheque of Rs 15 lakh, so now it’s hard for us to say why they are not paying their employees.”
 
 
