Nagpur: Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), said to be world’s largest social security agency, is facing a huge Information Technology (IT) glitch. The system of online settlement of claims, introduced a month ago, is not working. PF claims, like advances for personal needs or withdrawal of the amount on retirement, can now be made online using Aadhaar number. However, only a part of the data submitted by an employee through the online system reaches the other end. For example, if a person logs on to the EPFO website for getting a Rs2 lakh advance for house building. When the data is accessed by EPFO staffers to process the claim, the withdrawal amount requested is not seen. The slot specifying the amount is blank at their end. Similarly, when an online claim is submitted to withdraw PF after leaving a job or on retirement, the date of exit is not seen at EPFO end even though it is filled by the employee, said sources. The matter has been taken up with the head office and the software would need to be rectified, said sources.  This is just one of the technical snags being faced by the EPFO. The agency is moving towards an Aadhaar-based system. Mismatch in details mentioned in Aadhaar cards and EPFO’s own data is also hampering the job at offices throughout the country.  Along with the online system, Aadhaar-based offline settlement of claims has been introduced too. Under this, employees have to simply submit their Aadhaar number along with a claim. This does away with the need of getting employer’s signature. The relaxation has increased rush at EPFO offices. However, a large number of claims are being rejected on account of data mismatch.  Sources said nearly 40% of the claims are being rejected on this account. In a majority of cases, names on Aadhaar card and EPFO records are spelt differently due to which the system rejects the application, said sources. Pension disbursal is a key function of EPFO, but Aadhaar exercise has taken a toll even on this front leaving senior citizens harried. The pension accounts are being linked with Aadhaar and the mismatch is leading to hassles. The pensioners are also supposed to provide biometric life certificates though iris or fingerprint scan. As a majority missed the deadline there are long queues at EPFO offices to get the online life certificate necessary to get pension. Pensions have been stopped since last two months for want of life certificates.  Aadhaar linking too is marred by data mismatch. Arivind Kshatriya, a retired MSEB employee, said he had given his fingerprint scan which was not matching with that in the EPFO systems. Prabhu Venekar, who came from Pulgaon, said he gone for linking at the facilitation centre in his town but it was not working and he had to come to Nagpur.