NAGPUR: In an interesting custody battle for a two-year old  , the   allowed   to retain his   and Wards Act, 1890, while flaying the   for neglecting him.

 “The ward is in better custody of the custodian parents. Even if biological parents of ward are alive, the fact that father is staying with two wives, having three children from both and lastly, the mother is with her father at maternal home, compel me to negate their custody demand,” principal judge IM Bohari ruled.
 
 He added that if biological parents were already having one more female kid, besides two children from first wife, the child in question can’t at all be said to be precious for them. “However, as far as custodian parents are concerned, for want of any child of their own during last 14-15 years of their marriage, ward is certainly precious child for them,” the judge pointed out.
 
 In February last year, TOI had reported about this case where the court had granted child’s custody to the foster parents on interim basis and allowed the biological parents to have child’s access on every working Saturday between 11am and 12 noon at a crèche on family court’s premises.
 
 The first plea was filed by kid’s biological parents against respondents, who are their family friends. The second couple, who adopted the kid, filed an interim application against biological parent’s claims. Interestingly, the child is question is born out of extra-marital affair on September 1, 2014. The biological father legally wedded with first wife in 2012 and had two children. He entered into affair with second wife and tied nuptial knot on June 26, 2013. In the petition, he claimed that he entered into matrimony with first wife “forcefully” under the pressure from family members and was actually having an affair with second wife after which the kid was born.
 
 The rival couple contended that man had left second wife after birth of child, who was suffering from jaundice. Her father, having no means to maintain the child, handed it over to them, as they were childless for over 14 years. The newborn was treated by respondents, as wife was a qualified doctor, who took his good care.
 
 In the meantime, the biological father reunited with the second wife and took her to his home where first wife and children were staying. Subsequently, they filed an appeal for taking back child’s custody stating that the original mother had executed adoption deed under duress. They claimed that they were legally entitled for child’s custody and were capable of maintaining him.
 
 While delivering the verdict, the judge noted that the adoptive parents were in better financial conditions and would provide a good upbringing and education to the child. “The biological father has no source of income. If the kid is handed over to biological parents, he will have to live in acute poverty, illiteracy and darkness. However, the custodian parents are capable for giving excellent life to him,” he said before dismissing original parents case.
 
 
