MYSURU: In an effort to help students appreciate the inherent musicality of Kannada poems, the state government has launched a unique programme that will see professional musicians visit schools and pre-university colleges lending a lilt to the words on the pages. A nine-day   was launched on Monday in Mysuru. 

 Called ‘Shalegalalli sangeetha: Padyakruthigala geetha ganayana (  in schools: Rendition of poems in textbooks)’, the initiative was launched by Mysuru zilla panchayat president Nayima Sultana and   and Varnish Limited (MPVL) chairman HA Venkatesh at the Government Primary and High School in Rajendranagar on Monday. Additional deputy commissioner for Mysuru T Venkatesh, and deputy director of public instruction HR Basappa were among the dignitaries present at the launch of the initiative.
 
 Under the programme, 50 professional musicians – 50 vocalists and 50 instrumentalists – have been selected to visit as many as 48 schools across the district.
 
 The musicians have been assigned two tour vehicles, ‘Kapila Yana’, and ‘Cauvery Yana’. While the former will cover Mysuru Rural, T Narasipura, Nanjangud and HD Kote areas, the latter will visit schools in KR Nagar, Hunsur, Periyapatna and Mysuru city.
 
 Among the other key objectives of the programme is to help students understand the essence of the texts, and ensure they enunciate the words of the poems with the correct inflection. Assistant director of the Kannada and culture department H Channappa told TOI, “The musicians will visit schools across the district, and help create interest in music among the students.”
 
 Channappa added, “Nearly 50,000 students will benefit from this programme. If the pilot project is successful, we will extend the initiative across the state.”
 
 The project is not limited to government schools. The 48 schools where the musicians will perform are venues where students from schools in the neighbouring areas will gather to participate in the programme. The singers and instrumentalists chosen for the initiative include experts in folk, Hindustani, vachana, keerthane and other forms of music. The 50 musicians have been divided into eight teams of six – three singers and three instrumentalists. Each team will perform for two days, and visit three schools daily. Alongside the lessons at school, there will also be a performance by the musicians for the villagers in each taluk.
 
 The programme is being coordinated by a nodal officer and convener at each taluk. ‘Hakki haruthide nodira’, ‘Bharathiyathe’ are among the poems that the musicians will perform. “Besides texts in the school syllabus, the musicians will also perform popular songs that have a philosophical subtext, such as ‘Ee bhoomi bannada buiguri’, penned by film lyricist Hamsalekha,” said noted folk singer  , who has been roped in for the project.
 
 
