BENGALURU: The city is witnessing a significant rise in the number of   (H1N1) influenza cases. Doctors across the city have still not pressed the panic button, but a large number of cases in two consecutive months have become a cause of concern and data predicts that the worst is yet to come for 2017.

 According to data released by the department of health and family welfare, there was not a single influenza death in 2016, but this year in two months there have been three till February 21. Also, the number of patients testing positive has gone up.
 
 Dr Murali Mohan BV, senior pulmonologist in the city, said, “We have seen similar traits in other bacterial and viral infections, but there is no study to corroborate the facts about H1N1 striking back in cycle with an increase in number of patients each consecutive year. But it is not a surprise as the virus also evolves co-terminus with the immunity of the population exposed to it.”
 
 However, there shouldn’t be panic due to the increase in cases as surveillance and awareness about the disease, especially in an urban setting like Bengaluru, is increasing. The best way to avert an outbreak is to get an influenza vaccine. I won’t say it is cent percent effective, but it provides around 50-60% safety, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, doctors practising with private hospitals said that H1N1 cases are almost five to six times higher than officially reported by the health department, and the year-on-year breakout of the disease is a major concern for the health fraternity as till date, no particular drug is available for treating the disease.
 
 Even in the case of reporting   cases in 2016, there were different versions as the health department claimed no deaths, but there were at least five reported from the   alone, according to the data maintained by the institute.
 
 Dr Shashidhar Buggi, director of the institute, said, “We maintain a robust internal data recording system for communicable diseases as it is a major tool to bring down such infections. But it is true that swine flu cases have come down since 2009, as back then it was a new virus and the immunity among the population against it was low.”
 
 Over a period of time, the people have developed immunity and hence one should not spread fears about the disease as if it is a pandemic. Influenza in this season is common, but anyone witnessing mild to high fever for more than three days should visit the doctor and get tested. Early treatment helps in arresting the disease early.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr Murali Mohan added that the trend shows that it is the young population that is more susceptible to the virus unlike other influenza that has an impact on senior citizens. The best way to avert a fatality is to get medical help on time and if there are influenza-like symptoms for more than three days, one should use masks while going out and maintain proper hygiene to stop it from spreading.
 
 How does it spread?
 
 Swine flu is caused by a strain of influenza virus that usually only infects pigs. Unlike typhus, which can be transmitted by lice or ticks, transmission usually occurs from person to person, not animal to person. You can’t catch swine flu from eating pork products, but swine flu is very contagious. Swine influenza spreads from person to person, either by inhaling the virus or by touching surfaces contaminated with the virus, then touching the mouth or nose. Infected droplets are expelled into the air through coughing or sneezing.
 
