UDAIPUR: In a first, adventure lovers can take lessons in paragliding and  . 

 The   has granted licence to expert   who will coach people from next month. A suitable and safe venue too has been identified by the authorities at   where the training sessions will be held. The   is expected to give boost to tourism as well as generate   for the local youths.
 
 Paragliding is a recreational sport and the closest way for humans to fulfil their dream of free flight. Paragliding in India is performed using a light-weight, foot-launched aircraft that has no rigid structure. The pilot is secured to this structure using a harness and a fabric wing aids the flight of the individual. 
 
 “Any healthy person above the age of 12 can learn paragliding. The training schedule would be for 10 days during which the pilot would be taught to master the basic techniques of paragliding such as launching, turning and landing before setting out on a solo flight,” Singh said. The equipment, safety belts, helmets have been procured and the paragliding experiments are being conducted here.
 
 “The sport requires minimal training and can be enjoyed by people of any age group or gender. The best part about it is that, unlike other light aviation sports, the control lies completely in the hands of the individual flying the glider. He can stop and abort the take-off any moment he wants to and hence the sport gives one a total freedom. Besides, paragliding offers a wonderful opportunity to view the landscape from a different angle and enjoy the beauty of any region like never before,” Singh said.
 
 Paragliding courses are pretty expensive and commonly available in China, Norway, Australia, Canada. There are few schools in India which offer courses in paragliding, solo flights and tandem flights.
 
 
 An experienced paraglider and an adventurer can start his own paragliding club and operate in areas where the scope of paragliding is tremendous. One can also work as an instructor under the owner of any gliding club. There is a lot of money in the recreational activity generally that comes through people who paraglide for recreation. The adventure spot helps in aerial photography too and it is the best means for photographers who cannot afford to take flights frequently.
 
