HYDERABAD: The incidence of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is increasing in the city even as researchers worldwide are busy finding cure to this debilitating health problem. City doctors on the occasion of the international awareness day on chronic fatigue disease on Friday pointed out that the syndrome continues to be as enigmatic as ever. 

 The exact medical reasons for CFS are not known. The syndrome is characterized by severe tiredness and weakness, which will not go away on taking rest. Rest or work, tiredness continues to take a heavy toll on the patient's daily work output. Every year May 12 is observed as the awareness day on CFS as it happens to be the birthday of founder of modern nursing Florence Nightingale, who is believed to have suffered from the syndrome.
 
 Though there are no official statistics on CFS, it is estimated that one in 10,000 people in Hyderabad suffer from the syndrome. Doctors say the CFS cases are on the rise but in the absence of diagnostic tests, it is difficult to arrive at the exact number of patients in the city.
 
 The   ( ) of the   defines CFS as a "devastating and complex disorder" with no known cause. The condition does not improve by bed rest and gets worse when the patient begins to work. Besides severe tiredness the patient also undergoes suffering in the form of dull muscle pain, impaired memory, and lack of sleep and concentration. While the syndrome subsides gradually in many patients, it continues to trouble some patients for years together. Worse, there are no known tests to diagnose CFS and this poses a major challenge to doctors.
 
 According to Dr  , senior consultant (neurology), Gleneagles Global Hospital, Hyderabad, CFS is a complicated disorder characterized by extreme fatigue that can't be explained by any underlying medical condition. "Though the causes are unknown there are many theories, ranging from viral infection to psychological stress," he said suggesting that one should consult doctor if they are faced with persistent or excessive fatigue.
 
 As there is no prescribed diagnostic test, doctors need to first rule out major health conditions like cardiac ailments, diabetes or cancers. "Even low count of haemoglobin causes severe fatigue. Mental ailments are also responsible for symptoms similar to CFS. Though there is no damage to the vital organs, CFS lowers the output of the patient. It renders him almost infirm to work," said senior physician Dr M Sohail.
 
