LUCKNOW: If a family’s annual income is less than or equal to Rs 56,460 per annum, its ‘poor’ enough for its schoolgoing children to be entitled to state government’s  ,   and school bags scheme, the   Board will state in its proposal to the government. 

 The definition of ‘who comes under the ambit of poor family’ was sought from top officials in secondary education department for free of cost distribution of uniforms, books, shoes and bags to children of government run secondary schools in UP. The Rs 56,460 slab is for urban families, while students whose family income is Rs 46,080 or less per annum will come under the below poverty line, and will qualify for free books, uniforms, bags and shoes. Once ‘poor’ is defined, actual beneficiaries for the scheme will be enlisted. Considering total budget to be allocated for the scheme and the per annum expenditure to be incurred, the government will decide whether to limit the scheme to government school children or to include kids enrolled in government-aided schools too, said an official.
 
  secretary Shail Yadav said, “The above definition of ‘poor’ is according to a government order and we are in the process of sending the proposal to the government.’’ 
 
 The Aditya Nath Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh has announced for the first time scheme to distribute textbooks, bags, uniforms, and shoes free to students studying in government-run secondary schools. Earlier, the said benefits were limited to students from classes I to VIII. Going by the figures, there are 4.48 lakh students in government schools. Add to this, the number of students in government-aided schools, the figure stands at 40.06 lakh. 
 
 The proposed cost of one set comprising school bag, uniform, textbooks and shoes is Rs 150, Rs 1,000, Rs 908 and Rs 500 per child, respectively. Adding together, the secondary education department will have to spend Rs 2,558 per child to meet the expenses incurred for books, uniforms, shoes and books. Considering the scheme is rolled out only for government school children, the total expenditure will be Rs 114.82 crore. In case, the scheme covers students of government-aided schools also, the cost will be spiked to Rs 1,024.75 crore.
 
 This is a first-of-its-kind scheme started by the state government. Since there is no such scheme run by the Centre, there is no possibility of financial assistance. Entire expense will be borne by state government, education officials have been told. After working out actual figures, purchase process and distribution of books, uniforms, shoes and bags will be done by a committee led by chief secretary, reads the circular. 
 
