The state may have won a collective victory in the   by going the  , but its very purpose stands challenged by the blood that was spilt in the sport held subsequently. Norms were thrown to the wind at the hastily organised jallikattu in Rapoosal village in Pudukkottai which claimed three lives. Many were brutally injured during the successive events too held at various places. 

 The casualties and injuries in Rapoosal hint at possible lapses in preparedness, something the sport's aficionados can ill-afford now. Karupaiah who was one of the victims was a mere spectator, thus reviving the spectre of gore that has been the hallmark of the rustic sport. 
 
 Vadivel, 27, a bull-tamer injured in the jallikattu held at Arasalur near Perambalur district on Wednesday may have turned deaf in one of his ears. Presently undergoing treatment at the Trichy government hospital, he was badly wounded after being gored by a bull. With 15 stitches from his neck up to the right ear, he can't open his mouth. Though future seems bleak for this unemployed graduate, one of his relatives told TOI that none but Vadivel alone had to take blame for his plight. 
 
 "Rapoosal jallikattu is a classic example of the failure of administrative mechanism which could have been avoided," said Mannar, 45, a relative of Karupaiah. "We could have averted the fatalities if the crowd was kept way off the jallikattu arena," he said. 
 
 "What arrangements can you put in place when you get half a day to make arrangements starting from scratch," a senior revenue official told TOI. Being the home village of health minister C Vijayabaskar, there was an overwhelming crowd which was beyond control, said the official. Lack of arrangements alone could not be blamed for the injuries and deaths, said Raja, 30, a daily wage labourer who was gored on his back by a bull at a jallikattu event at Palinganatham in Ariyalur district on Thursday. He said that neither the bulls nor the bull tamers were ready for the event which was organized in haste. 
 
 Among the 10 injured at the event and taken to Trichy for treatment, V Boobalan, 27, who has 10 stiches to his abdomen, said that the bulls were very violent since many of them were participating in the event for the first time. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Trichy district superintendent of police T Senthil Kumar said that jallikattu was organised at Palinganatham village without permission from the authorities. The organisers had approached Ariyalur district collector which was subsequently denied. Asked about the over 80 injuries reported at the event, he said that most of them had sustained minor injuries only. However, five people suffered grievous injuries and they were undergoing treatment at the Trichy government hospital. 
 
 "It is unfortunate and a matter of concern that the state itself is legitimising the event and flaunting it as our tradition," says A Narayanan, director, CHANGE India. He pointed out that unlike the Rekla Race where a domesticated bull is used for the race, a semi wild bull is unleashed against humans in jallikattu. "These bulls are trained only to gore people causing grievous injuries to an extent that many are left bedridden for the rest of their lives. Instead of promoting these events, the state must promote scientific temper and develop them for a modern world," he added.
 
 
