Food has always been an inherent part of India’s cultural fabric. With its vast repertoire of ingredients, rich culinary traditions and regional influences, Indian cuisine has gained prominence in the world food scenario. And yet, now that we think about it, it seems bizarre that there’s not one single day when we collectively celebrate any of our dishes! There have been occasional attempts in this area — like food communities trying to mark a World Undhiyu Day or a National Milk Day, but none of them have really taken off.  , a food consultant who has been organising international food days in Mumbai for some years now, was struck by this thought. And then she saw people from Odisha celebrating   in March this year to promote Odia cuisine. She did not need to look any further to take her vision forward. Says Rushina, “India has such an interesting food calendar, so why not recognise and celebrate it? Our ingredients are specific to seasons. Their uses, cooking methods, combinations, all affect our yearly food habits. Indian dietetics and dining etiquette have all been built into a system of traditional practices with sound reasons behind them. We consume food according to the needs of our bodies which varies with different seasons. For example, we have rich food in the winter, but lighter and easy-to-digest ones in the monsoons. However, the science behind these traditions are fading from our consciousness and before we forget them altogether, I decided that we need to come together and reignite the discussion around them. We will cook food, click pictures, post them online and invite people to talk about them. It will help to spread the word. And an interesting format to pique people’s interest is to designate specific days to certain dishes, when they can be celebrated.”

 The Indian food calendar is currently all spiced up. According to the Indian climate, summer is the best time to grind dry spices and turn them into tangy, peppery, piquant powders that are coveted around the world. And since pickles make extensive use of these flavourful spices, Rushina decided to flag off her vision with the Aam Achar Day (April 22). This way, it celebrated both the legend of Indian spices and the king of Indian summer fruit, mango. Given the success of the Aam Achar Day, Rushina followed it up with the Papad/Badi Day on May 13. The day was marked by a volley of information about papad and badi (dried balls of mashed lentils and spices) being shared on social media, not just by home-cooks but also from professional chefs and restaurateurs. At her studio, Rushina organised a potluck where food enthusiasts from Punjab, Uttaranchal, Gujarat and   came together and cooked regional dishes made from the regional varieties of papad and badis. Apart from being a learning experience, it also highlighted, once again, the richness of Indian food’s variety. Said media professional  , who took part in both the celebrations, “I was never a fan of pickles since I felt that they are such a task to make. So, when I heard about this day, I wanted to join and see what goes into making achar. I realised I was scared for nothing. The preparation is simple. Also, it was a gathering of like-minded people who could interact with each other, share tips and masalas and cook too, while getting to learn new things from experts of different communities.”
 
 
 The Aam Achar Day, which was the first in a series of Indian food observance days that Rushina is planning, saw many reminiscing childhood memories, telling stories, sharing recipes, clicking pictures and going live on social media. All of it was curated with a hashtag  . The result was that word reached a large number of people, and those numbers just grew when she followed it up with the Papad/Badi Day. She shared with us an interesting anecdote from the experience. “City-based chef,  , who was on vacation in Indonesia sent me pictures of Indonesian papads! It was an interesting bit of information that made us realise, papads exist in all the South East Asian countries — just that they are not always made of lentils, but can also be rice and sago based,” she quipped. 
 
 
 From the Kashmiri spice, ver, to the sambhar masala of the South, from the methiyu no masalo of Gujarat to the panch phoron of Bengal, the hot summer month of May is when communities all over the country dry and grind spices to create the powders that lend regional cuisine their characteristic identity. So the next in the series is the Masala Day, which will be observed today, May 20. “I have planned an Indian food day calendar for this year. Next, for the month of June, I am planning a Biryani Day,” informed Rushina. It is not surprising that even kids have taken to this favourably, and are all gung-ho about joining their parents to celebrate their favourite dishes. And who can blame them? If there are specific days when we can show off our love for our favourite foods, like achar and biryani, we are all for it! 
 
