MELBORUNE: When it was all done   threw himself on the surface on which he had chased and charged, reached and raged for four minutes short of five hours in the semifinals of the  . He fell face down, arms stretched out. In prayer and gratitude.

 The ninth-seed flirted with fringes after winning his ninth title in Roland Garros in 2014, failing to get past the last eight of a Major in the 30 months that followed. On Friday night with the full-house at the Rod Laver Arena behind him Nadal stormed into the final. The 30-year-old came through with a 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (7-5), 6-7 (4-7), 6-4 win over Bulgaria's 15th-seed  , who lived up to his name of `Baby Fed', showing shades of the legendary  , especially with the flair he exhibited with his backhand.
 
 In Sunday's final, Nadal will play Federer on a Grand Slam stage three years after they met in the semifinals here in 2014.It'll be the duo's 35th meeting.
 
 “Difficult to describe emotions,“ Nadal, who broke down in tears when he congratulated Dimitrov after the match, said.“I was tired, Grigor played unbelievable, it was a great match. When you have tough moments like I had last year, it takes a while to get back to that level that you had. I'm a positive person, but I never ever dreamed to be in the final here in Australia in just my second tournament. I feel very lucky .“
 
 Dimitrov may have had chances early in the opening set, but it was the 2009 champion, who dazzled in the early part of the match, while his opponent appeared out of step. The 25-year-old Bulgarian, who won the duo's last meeting in October, looked up at his box, flashing a worried look at his coach Dani Vallverdu. Nadal, who received a time violation warning in the fourth game of the second set, when down love-30, lost his serve two points later as he popped a forehand. Unhappy with the rap, he tried to force the pace in the next game, but Dimitrov stood up to the pressure to take a 4-1 lead. Nadal, not serving at his best in the second set, kept up the pressure from the back of the court to pull one back in the ninth game. With the crowd behind the Spaniard, who warded off four set points to hold serve, levelled scores at five-all. He then came up short in the 12th game, allowing Dimitrov to level set scores.
 
 A couple of messy forehands gave Nadal break in the fifth game of the third set. The Spaniard, struggling with timing, surrendered his serve in the following game. Play was delayed by six minutes, following the 11th game, with Nadal serving to stay in the set when a spectator collapsed in the stands.When play resumed Nadal held to love. The tie-break then was a battle of inches and intensity , at five-all Dimitrov was the first to blink and Nadal took the lead.
 
 In the fourth set, Nadal's grit and grunt was matched by some smart gambling from Dimitrov, who went for the lines, pushing the muscleman from Mallorca on the backfoot and taking the set to tie-break.
 
 In the decider, the 25-yearold stepped it up a notch, his play matching his attitude. Just when it looked like Dimitrov was running away with it, Nadal came up with the fight to match his opponent's flair, coming back from 15-40 to hold serve in the eighth game. The Spaniard then gained the same position in the following game, Dimitrov's forehand error giving him a breakpoint at 3040. This time Nadal attacked, sealing the break after crowding the net. With his bench on their feet, the ninth seed, his serve and nerve stretched and tested, finally closed out on his third match point.
 
 
