CHENNAI: Railway minister   has urged the Tamil Nadu government to sign an MoU for setting up a   (SPV) to execute projects in the state. The state will be able to prioritise the projects to be taken up if the agreement is signed. 

 Speaking at the inauguration of 10 railway projects through video conferencing on Saturday, Prabhu said that all southern states except Tamil Nadu had signed the agreement. "If Tamil Nadu also can join, we can prioritise the projects that should be taken up. Earlier, Delhi alone was deciding which project should be developed."
 
 He urged the ministers and legislators present at the function to tell the state government to sign the SPV. "If Tamil Nadu signs the agreement, we can do more projects." Prabhu's remarks followed requests by MPs and MLAs, who spoke before the minister, to improve amenities and complete   work pending in the state. 
 
 AIADMK's   MP V Maitreyan said that he could present the demands pertaining to railways put forward by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa once again when the   session begins. Similarly, the party's MP A Navaneethakrishnan also suggested railway projects that need attention from the ministry.
 
 This is the second time the union minister is urging the state government to sign the MoU. He made the request while inaugurating projects through video conferencing from   in July last year. Tamil Nadu has not signed the agreement as it has demanded changes in the existing framework of rules under which the SPV would work.
 
 Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had objected to the provisions of the SPV and had demanded that land provided for projects should be treated as equity contribution at market value and that matching contributions from railways should be in the form of money or land owned by central government departments.
 
 Prabhu also said that projects in Tamil Nadu received more money from railways in the last two years. "Under the UPA government, the state was getting on an average 800 crore in the railway budget. We increased this to 1,560 crore in the last budget and this has been increased to 2,287 crore this year." 
 
