CHENNAI: When a social worker asked Ranjani* if she insisted on using protection, the 28-year-old transsexual quietly pinched back her blouse to show red scratches on a shoulder and purple bruises beneath her bangles. This was the price she paid for asking a client to use a  . Two months later, she turned up at a government clinic with  .

 Most choose not to ask. A study by Institute of Venereology, Madras Medical College, showed just 45% of the 82 transsexuals surveyed used condoms. But it was the second set of figures that was the bigger surprise: the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections and   among those who used condoms was nearly 15%. “This is mostly attributed to the lack of correct and consistent use of condoms,” said the study, published recently in the Indian Journal of Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS. Ranjani belonged to this category. “I ask the client to use only if there’s penetrative sex,” she said. The rest in the study group did not give a history of ever using condoms.
 
 Researchers who studied the 82 transsexuals the youngest was 18, the oldest 55 found close to 87% had engaged in oral sex and 67% in anal sex. Syphilis was the most common infection, followed by HIV, genital warts, and gonorrhea. Some also had skin problems in the genital area.
 
 Most of the transsexuals interviewed believed condoms decreased sexual pleasure and that there was no need to use condoms during intercourse with apparently healthy individuals. They also had little knowledge about the uses/ benefits of condoms other than their role in HIV prevention.
 
 The findings, activists say, highlight the need for more intervention in this high risk group. “Most outreach programmes by the state are more technical than personal. Condoms are distributed, charts and pamphlets on how HIV spreads are put up. There is little on condom negotiation skills with prospective clients along with addressing and alleviating misconceptions regarding condom use,” said Jaya, general manager of Sahodaran, an NGO. “Officials need to talk to the community directly and not just route condoms and funds through NGOs.” 
 
 Every year, Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society distributes, on an average, more than 30 lakh condoms to high-risk groups, including women sex workers, transsexuals, men who have sex with men (MSM) and truck drivers. Official data for 2011 shows prevalence rate is highest among the transsexuals (3.82%), women sex workers (2.69%) and MSM (2.4%).
 
 On Monday, the findings were raised at a meeting held by Tansacs director K Senthil Raj with NGOs working with transsexuals. Officials handed out questionnaires to stakeholders to distribute to target groups. “The questions include a lot of components, including employment status, if they have undergone sex reassignment surgery and identity proof,” said Dr Senthil.
 
 (*name changed)
 
 
