About a quarter of  , some 11 crore people, work in non-farm enterprises that can broadly be described as the unorganised sector. Of these 6.3 crore enterprises, none are covered under the Companies Act or Factories Act. In fact, more than two thirds are unregistered.

 These are not some fly by night vendors — 82% operate from homes or permanent structures outside homes, 98% are open through the year.
 
 Put together they add Rs 11.5 lakh crore to the country’s output.
 
 These are some of the findings of a survey of nearly three lakh enterprises done by NSSO in 2015-16. Only non-agricultural enterprises were covered and construction based units were also excluded. Since 2010-11, when a similar survey was done, the number of enterprises has increased by 57 lakh or 10% but strikingly, the number of workers has increased by only 33 lakh or 3% in these five years.
 
 That’s a net addition of about 6.5 lakh workers every year. This reflects the stagnating employment scenario in the country. Meanwhile, the gross value added has increased by 83% in this period.
 
 Another notable aspect is that earnings of workers have increased by 86% in five years, even as employment has stagnated. An average worker in these enterprises earns over Rs 7,000 per month, compared to nearly Rs 4,000 five years ago. Since gross value added per worker has jumped up by 78%, this means that workers are working more and earning more.
 
 These enterprises, otherwise classified as micro-, small-, cottage etc., were thought of by many as a great hope for providing mass employment and efficient resource utilization, but they don’t seem to be in great health, going by this report.
 
 The job creation capacity of these enterprises is floundering, the scale of their economics is almost subsistence level, and in any case they are concentrated in urban areas and in a handful of states. While slow demand is the main reason, lack of credit facilities, technology and skills are other factors experts believe are contributing to the lacklustre performance.
 
 Over 84% of these enterprises are family-run with no hired workers. Trade activities, mainly small shops, make up about 36% of these enterprises but manufacturing and other services are nearly as popular. 
 
 Surprisingly, nearly 20% are owned by women, which is because women’s employment opportunities are low, their work participation rate being just 23% in India. So, they lend a hand in adding to the family income by running petty shops and other enterprises.
 
 The deep regional imbalance in industrialisation across different states is reflected in these small enterprises too. Nearly half of the 6.3 crore enterprises are in five states — UP, Bengal, TN, Maharashtra and Karnataka; a quarter in just the first two.
 
 The report reveals that SHG-based enterprises, once touted as the panacea for economic empowerment, have flattered to deceive. They made up just 1.8% of all enterprises in 2015-16 down from 2.1% in 2010-11.
 
