AJMER: The denizens of Ajmer witnessed a usual site in the sky on Saturday afternoon. The cloudy sky sets the perfect playground for over 400 exotic species of pigeons encircling the city revisiting the centuries old sport of nobles ‘Kabutarbazi’. Kabutarbaz or pigeon enthusiast gathered atop a house in Somalpur for a race of pigeons happening after a gap of years in Ajmer.

 To mark the noble sport, Kabutarbazi, from across the country gathered for a race involving desi and videsi species. Trained by experts called Ustads, a kit of pigeons are taught to fly in different formations with a proper coordination between the head pigeon and the Ustad who gives directions both verbal and symbol. The race begins with a whirlwind formation which broadens as they go upward. After attaining a specific height and levelled position, the Ustad signals them to fly on the trained route.
 
 The audience without blinking their eyes kept their heads up until the pigeons disappeared from the eyes. A team below following them to ensure the route followed by them is earmarked for the race. The encircled the city in a radius of 5 km entertaining almost half of the city densely populated areas at a height which makes them visible even for those standing on the ground. Ustad while keeping a tab on his clock at   calculating the arrival of the birds signals the arrival of birds.
 
 They made different formations like V formation and bird shape formation before landed on the Terrance in the order they took off. The breeds which participated in the race was Siraji from Iran while Kalpotia, Safed Chane and Kala Chane from India. The cost of these birds varies from Rs 2,000 to Rs 50,000 making them the sport for elites.
 
 The event also marked the accordance of a title ‘Ustad’ to –Syed Gani Gurdezi and  . The title Ustad is highest position granted in this sport. Both have spent half a century training exotic species of pigeons. “I have preserving the legacy of my forefathers. As I have inherited it will be passing on the next generation,” said Gurdezi elated. The sport is limited to some cities—Ajmer, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Varanasi to name a few. 
 
 The pigeons gets the royal treat ment. Their diet has badam munakka, desi dhee, mirchi charu magaz, akal khera, mu leti, etc, mixed in bajra so that they become robust and have the stamina for flights lasting as long as three hours. 
 
