: I am a 35-year-old-married guy with two kids. My wife is not at all interested in   and she has been like this for the last 8 years or so. Other than our  , everything else is perfectly fine and we share a great bonding. 

 I have tried openly speaking to her many times, but she just deviates from the topic, and we never end up with a solution. Sometimes, when I am really desperate, she just gives in for the sake of it, and it feels like I either having sex with a dead body or I am raping her. Trust me, it is a horrible feeling! 
 
 Unfortunately, my sexual cravings are too much, and I get irritated due to lack of it. I am just hoping for a considerate amount like once a week or so. Is that too much to ask for? My wife is not willing to visit a counsellor and I have started feeling that I am a sex pervert. Somehow, I have been managing all these years with porn and masturbation. But off late, I am getting a lot of calls from similar-minded girls who are also ignored by their husbands. I fear I might end up sleeping with one or all of them one day. I even tried mentioning about this to my wife, but she still does not care. Please tell me what I am supposed to do - 
 
 
 
 
 Don’t arrive at any hasty decisions. It is important to take help from a physician to first assess for any physical reasons for the decreased libido that your wife seems to have like hypothyroidism, vitamin D deficiency, severe anaemia. It is possible that she may be having painful intercourse, which you may not realize in your heightened excitement. 
 
 Also, there is a need to explore for any psychological issues. It is possible that your wife may have had bad experiences in her earlier years relating to sex like abuse or has been brought up in an extremely stringent background which prohibits talking about sex. Some couples have disturbed interpersonal relations at home which can adversely affect their sex life. 
 
 Many a times two individuals may have different sexual drives and it is advisable to understand each other, be patient and not get distracted to others as the consequences of the same may affect your marriage beyond repair. It is advisable that you prevail upon your wife that both of you require help and should visit a psychiatrist.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
 
