BENGALURU: Equating diplomacy with jujitsu,  , former national security advisor to the prime minister and ex-foreign secretary, said most things depend on how opposing forces structure their arguments against each other. 

  "It is all about using the opponent's strength to our own advantage. The final outcome can be influenced in the way that negotiations take place and the way we structure our argument," he said. A former diplomat who has worked closely with three Indian prime ministers, Menon was in the city to discuss his book Choices - Inside the Making of India's Foreign Policy - published last year, with  , noted historian, at   (BIC). 
 
 Calling his book "descriptive and not prescriptive", Guha probed Menon on some of the main topics that he covers in his work, all of which are relevant, like the Sino-Indian boundary negotiations, the controversial Indo-US nuclear deal,  , society and the civil war, relations with Pakistan and India's no first use policy. Guha started by complimenting Menon's candour in the book.
 
 "In an unprecedented rev elation, his book reveals itself to be open to self-criticism," he said. Among other issues, Guha questioned Menon on China's continued demonization in the eyes of the Indian intelligentsia, which percolated down to the rest of the country. 
 
 "China's image continues to be negative because we have still not got over 1962. Our generation is recreating the version of history we remember to make it mean betrayal, defeat and distrust. The younger generations are reading biased history for the first time. We have only been managing our relationship till now, not addressing the basis of the conflict," he said, adding that it was time for a new strategic dialogue.
 
 Addressing the issue of Indo-Pak relations in light of the 26/11 terror attack, Menon said the decision to not retaliate was good, in hindsight. He, however, conceded the decline in cross border attacks since 2008 was a result of a changed environment whereby Pakistan had got better at covering its tracks and India had got better at handling them. In conclusion, he said that "choice is the essence of governance".
 
