CHENNAI: War can rip apart cities, tear down homes, and divide people, but what it can’t do is strip away memories. The sound of laughter and the evenings with family and friends, are what live on — it is these stories which  , a French actor of Syrian-German descent, decided to collect when she first heard of the Syrian civil war.

  So what began as interviews of refugees in Paris,   and   turned into Jaber’s play Oh My Sweet Land. She invites audiences into her on-stage kitchen and cooks a Levantine meat dish — kubah — while narrating a love story in the backdrop of two million displaced people.
 
 “There is nothing left in Syria anymore. When I conceived the idea of the play in 2013 I did not know how long the play would run because I thought the war would end soon. It has been six years since the war started and I am still staging it,” said Jaber, who will be staging Oh My Sweet Land at Goethe Institut on April 11 and 12.
 
 Love, loss and longing form the soul of Jaber’s play, conceived and performed by her. “These were people from diverse backgrounds. Some were rebels, others ordinary people caught in the conflict. But one thread binds them all — the insistence that their stories of survival be shared with the world. They are heroes in their own right as they fight to protect their families,” said Jaber, who holds theatre classes for refugee children in Lebanon.
 
 Written and directed by  , a Palestinian, the production of the play was an adventure in itself as Jaber and Zuabi coordinated through  . While she conducted the interviews, he researched the other aspects. When they first met at a Jordan cafe there were thousands of stories. Sifting through the narratives, the team zeroed in on imagery of food for the play as it lends an air of intimacy. “Food forms an integral part of Syrian culture. My father was Syrian and he cooked wonderful dishes at home. In a way, that is one of the ways I could connect to my homeland,” says Jaber. “Syrians who have watched the play were extremely touched. Also, cooking is an intimate experience and plays on the senses of sight, sound and smell,” she said, adding that the meat is also a metaphor for killing.
 
  Goethe Institut is now collaborating with Jaber for a project called ‘In memory of’, to produce a play on the lives of refugees after 70 years of India’s Partition. The actor will be conducting a 10-day workshop in the city.
 
