PUNE: Gotu is 30 and has been setting the tone of   for years now. But the seasoned   cannot recollect the last time when his group , which has been taking the art for m to various rural parts of the state, suffered so much as it did this winter.

 “We had to wrap up our   a day earlier than schedule because of poor response. Villagers had no cash to spare for a Tamasha show following notebandi,“ says Gotu.
 
 “Our main audience is villagers. Immediately after demonetisation, they didn't have enough cash with them. We suffered huge losses. Some of the artistes got only half of their daily wages for two weeks. A few days after the currency ban, we did some shows for an audience of 700-800. Usually, we sell over 1,600 tickets a day ,“ he says.
 
 “Last year, the response in Trambakeshwar was much better,“ says the artiste from Nashik, whose family has been into the art form for generations. In her mid-sixties, Gotu's mother is still into Tamasha and is a popular name.
 
 Their next stop is a village near Jalna in Marathwada. And they hope that the situation will improve by then. “I cannot think of getting into any other profession. It's too late for me. Tamasha is my first love and I cannot part ways,“ Gotu says, as he packs his bags.
 
 A dancer in his early twenties, Mahesh is the first from his family to become a part of any Tamasha group.The artiste from Ahmednagar is also hit hard.
 
 “The days following the government's decision were extremely difficult. A show drew barely 200-300 people to our tent. Thankfully, our group is a name in itself. The reputation will help the group tide over the crisis. But some smaller groups have suffered big time,“ he says.
 
 Unlike Gotu, Mahesh does not want to prolong his career in Tamasha. “I had joined the profession against my parents' wishes. It was my passion to dance, visit plac es and make some money.
 
 The first two or three years were good. The days after demonetisation were diffi cult,“ he says.
 
 “I will leave Tamasha, take up a job as an electri cian and get married. I know income will be low. But it will be stable,“ he says.
 
 Sabhajiraje Jadhav, pres ident of the Akhil Bhartiya Lok-natya Marathi Tama sha Parishad, says, “Demonetisation hit us hard. About 300 small and 22 big Tamasha groups have barely managed only 20% bookings till January. The situation is recovering but it will take at least two more years for business to be normal. The Ta m a s h a g ro u p s h ave around Rs 15-25 lakhs of loan to repay .“
 
 Since its inception, Tamasha companies travel across the state -in bullock carts in the past and in buses and trucks now. Tamasha artistes literally live out of a suitcase, with their belongings, costumes and props stuffed in tin tanks.
 
 For them, life is a loop of tavel-unpack-perform-packup-travel. The groups are now getting ready for another round of travel, hoping that the next assignment will mean good business.
 
