GANDHINAGAR: Political circles in Gujarat were rife with speculation after senior   leader Shankersinh Vaghela on Saturday left midway the meeting of state core committee leaders with the party’s national vice-president   in New Delhi. The meeting was reportedly taking place in the party’s ‘war room’ in the national capital. 

 Sources claimed Vaghela had left the meeting reportedly because his demand to be named Congress candidate for chief minister or as Gujarat election in-charge was not meet at the meetin chaired by Rahul Gandhi. Vaghela was also not present for the group photograph taken of all the core-committee members with Gandhi.
 
 When contacted for his comments, Vaghela said that reports that he had left the Congress meeting in a huff were misleading. 
 
 “I attended the group meeting and was also the first to have an individual meeting with Rahul Gandhi,” he said. “I took permission from him and   president Bharatsinhbhai to leave early. I left because I had some other engagements,” Vaghela said. 
 
 Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki said that the party will not declare any person as candidate for chief minister as that is the party’s tradition. “Elected MLAs will choose their leader,” Solanki said.
  
  He further said that Rahul Gandhi advised state Congress leaders on a range of issues. 
 
 “He asked us to repeat in Gujarat the grand success of the party in Punjab by unitedly fighting the BJP. He also suggested that we be more aggressive in connecting with people,” Solanki said. 
 
 It may be recalled that earlier too Vaghela, popularly called ‘Bapu’, had skipped a number of important party meetings in the state. For example, he was absent from the state-level booth co-ordination committee meeting, and had also skipped the launch of Dariya Kinara Bachav Yatra led by former Gujarat Congress chief Arjun Modhwadia on May 3. 
 
 There has been much speculation about Vaghela planning a return to the BJP ever since he had a ‘courtesy meeting’ on March 29 with national BJP president Amit Shah. He had also met Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP president Jitu Vaghani. 
 
 It may be mentioned that Vaghela, who is 76 years old, started his 50-year-long political career with the RSS. In 1980, he was one of the founders of the BJP in Gujarat. Vaghela left the BJP in 1995 and floated his own outfit,  . He became CM with Congress support in October 1996 but had to step down soon. In 1998, Vaghela joined the Congress and was later union minister in the   government. 
 
 
