Nothing had prepared Kochi-based Tishan Varghese and Blessilda for the loss of their four-year-old dog Dora. The healthy canine suddenly developed an infection and died from complications, two weeks ago.

 “We got her a year after our marriage, and the past four years, she was our child. It’s been a fortnight now, but neither of us feel like stepping out of the house yet. The house seems dark and gloomy. We realise how much she was a part of our lives only after she is gone,” says Tishan, who has not been able to go to work since.
 The loss of a pet is often considered trivial by many, but for  , it can be devastating. “My wife has been crying non-stop and I don’t know how to comfort her. We used to take Dora with us to outings and she used to sleep with us. The only place we go now is the beach, where we used to take Dora. We feed the stray dogs there like we used to but everything reminds us of her,” says Tishan.
 
 And while everyone is sympathetic towards someone who has lost a relative, the same can’t be said about the loss of a pet. Tishan admits that a few relatives have been telling them that they’re crazy to grieve so much over a pet. It is better to not reveal your grief to someone who cannot understand love for animals, advises  , dog trainer and behaviourist.
 
 “It’s best to speak to other pet lovers as only they can understand the significance of the loss and offer true words of comfort. The ‘it’s only a dog’ attitude will only hurt you more,” she says.
 
 Pranita P, an ardent cat lover, got one for herself after she made sure she bought a roomy flat, only to lose it to an accident within a year. “I kept blaming myself for the accident and started going into depression,” she says.
 
 But being part of an animal welfare group, she was soon asked to foster a sick cat, which she did reluctantly. “Nothing can replace my cat but the foster cat is taking up all my energies and so it’s a relief,” she says. And that’s the only way to deal with the loss, eventually, says Sreedevi.
 
 “Many people take it to such an extent that they don’t want to have a pet ever again. That is not fair because there are so many other animals which could use the same kind of love and affection. They need to continue the bond by volunteering or fostering so that they don’t feel completely empty. It will also satisfy your emotional needs to some extent, which is very important,” she explains.
 
 And finally, while it is easily said than done, don’t give in to grief, but get over it, says Sreevidya. “When you get a new pet, you will have an outlet to express your love. There’s nothing like hugging a dog, even if it is to cry about your old dog. It offers a totally different level of comfort.” 
 
 
 
 
 = A lot of people tend to keep the dog’s belongings but it is always better to get closure. Think of donating the toys to a shelter
 
 = Continue the bond by volunteering or fostering so that you don’t feel completely empty
 
 = Another pet can never replace your loss but it will help dull 
 your pain
 
 
