Ever since the members of Karni Sena allegedly vandalised the set of  's film   in Jaipur, the entire Bollywood has spoken in one voice against it. While this united stance has shown Bollywood as a united industry, it has rekindled some unhappy memories for writer and music composer  . The man who has been associated with films like Aag, Hungama, Adhantari and Bal Gandharwa, recently took to social media to voice his anguish about 'Entitled people Bollywood' not coming to his support when one of his films faced similar treatment by the hooligans.

 Ask him to explain the term entitled and Kaushal says, 'I was replying to a particular tweet, wherein  's tweet was tagged along, saying, 'Film industry must stand as 1 and do whatever it takes to ensure that d reprehensible attack on SLB becomes a flashpoint for goondagardi to stop.' I have always admired Shabana the actress and held her in high esteem as a person. She is one of the opinion makers whom people look up to. But, opinion makers of Bollywood remained quiet when theatres screening my film   were vandalised by certain sections of Banjara community, even though the incident was widely reported. This hypocritical stance of the people that you look up to, pains you.'
 
  
  
 Point it out to him that Marathi film industry has seldom come together for a cause, and Kaushal says, 'This is not true. When Mumbai radio stations refused to play Marathi songs, almost 450 Marathi singers came together and we recorded Marathi abhimangeet, penned by Suresh Bhat. That was one of the first Marathi songs played on one of the FM channels. After that the political parties took up the cause of Marathi songs and now Mumbai channels are also playing them regularly. People like  ,  ,   and   have been quite vocal. There is another aspect to Marathi voice not reaching out. Recently, Pushkar Shrotri and Sriram Godbole were trolled on social media when they and many others spoke against the vandals who threw the bust of Marathi playwright Ram Ganesh Gadkari in a river in Pune. But nobody would speak about it, because they are not privileged.'
 
