JAIPUR: With   claiming 100 lives in Maharashtra, health authorities in   have gone on alert.

 In the past three days, 17 persons have tested positive for swine flu in the state. Health authorities are hoping that it would not become a full-fledged outbreak like in Maharashtra.
 
 Health officials have been directed to daily monitor swine flu cases.
 
 A patient, who was critical, was shifted from a private hospital to Sawai Man   Hospital on Friday. “We have put him on ventilator. His condition is critical. Due to swine flu, his lungs have been affected,” said Dr C L Nawal, head of the department of general medicine, SMS Hospital.
 
 While another critical swine flu patient has been given ventilator support at the hospital, a third person is undergoing treatment in the ICU.
 
 Two patients have been shifted to the ward after treatment and they are fine now. Dr Nawal added that swine flu virus was a complex one and a combination of swine, avian and human viruses. Its behaviour too was complex.
 
 The hospital’s additional superintendent, Dr Ajit Singh, said, “Over the past three days, we have admitted five patients.”
 
 Dr Singh said that they have all the facilities, including diagnostic and treatment facilities, for swine flu patients. “We admitted a patient who was shifted from a private hospital today,” he said.
 
 So far, Jaipur has been the most-affected district by swine flu. In the city, 26 people have already tested positive and one died from the disease. In the past 28 days, a total of 18 persons tested positive in Jaipur.
 
 Chief medical health officer (Jaipur I) Dr Narottam   said, “It’s quite unusual for swine flu cases to be reported at a time when the temperature is hovering over 40 degree Celsius. Flu cases usually start being reported during winters and they come down when the summer arrives. But, this year, cases are being reported in the summer too.”
 
 Dr Sharma said that they were on alert and conducting surveys in areas where flu cases have been reported. Preventive measures have also been taken to control the spread of the disease in the city.
 
 According to health experts, the swine flu virus is dormant in the state, but it becomes virulent when the temperature changes. Experts said that after the first outbreak in 2009, there have been instances of moderate outbreaks during summers. So, it is necessary for the people to take precautionary measures. So far, 11 persons have died in the state due to swine flu this year.
 
