It was a scene of celebration at Shiuri Bidyasagar College, until Tuesday morning. Dohar was set to take the stage at 6 pm at the college auditorium, where the ongoing fest hosted a series of cultural events, including a performance by Monomoy just the other day. But destiny had other plans.   Bhattacharjee, frontman of the band and a celebrated musician, breathed his last after meeting with a car accident near Gurap. He was on his way to the venue with his team of musicians.

 
 
  
 
 Abhijit Das, a passout of Shiuri Bidyasagar College and a musician himself, told us, “Kalikada and his team were supposed to do the sound check at 5 pm. He was coordinating with the college principal. Everyone here is in a state of shock. A condolence meeting was held where Kalikada was supposed to perform.” Known as an encyclopaedia of folk music, Kalikaprasad formed Dohar in 1999. The idea was to present the songs of the soil to the masses in its original form and flavour. He was among the few who championed the cause of folk musicians and not just folk music. Blessed with an earthy voice, he, along with Dohar, presented 35 forms of folk music from Bengal,   and the Northeast. Be it baul, bhawaiya, chatka, jhumur, saarigaan or gaajan, Kalikaprasad was the go-to person for the city’s folk lovers. Apart from live gigs that kept him busy, Kalikaprasad was the mentor of folk musicians in the popular music reality show, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa. He also composed music for Bengali films. Only recently he flew to Dhaka for the premiere of Bangladeshi film Bhuvan Majhi, starring   in the lead. Sitting in faraway Hazaribagh, Param couldn’t speak about the last trip he made to Bangladesh with the musician. “I am feeling shaken, futile,” he messaged us. Kalikaprasad, who did playback for Moner Manush and Jaatishwar, was composing for Pavel’s film, Rosogolla; 85% of the work on which is already done. The director last spoke to him at 11.30 pm on Monday and is reeling under the shock of the morning news. “With help from Souptik, his manager and Goutamda, the sound recordist, I will complete the task of composing for our period film, Rosogolla. It is Kalikada’s film and will remain so,” said Pavel, who was in   for his docu on Irom Sharmila Chanu and returned to town to pay his last respects to the composer.
 
 
  
  
 
 Kalikaprasad called me two weeks back, when Sahajiya was set to perform at the Kerala National Folk Festival. He was among the few who knew how to appreciate good work. He was full of praise for our efforts. Before that, I had called him to congratulate him on his exemplary work in Sa Re Ga Ma Pa. We had many such creative exchanges. Dohar was supposed to perform in the Sahajiya Utsav in April, but that was not to be. Apart from folk music, he would also take a keen interest in folk artistes.
 
  
  
 I shot with him in February. Kalikada was a walking-talking encyclopaedia of folk music and was deeply involved with the show. Often, Shantanuda (Moitra) and I would sit with him for long addas on music. Since I am in Mumbai, I had no clue about what transpired on Tuesday morning. I got a call from a private number. It was CM  , who herself was shocked beyond words. 'Since you were very close to him, I thought of informing you,' she told me.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 On March 3, I recorded a song for Kalikada -   bhromora re. He was composing for Rosogolla and pursued me to render this song. We met at the recording studio and had great fun post recording. He told me that the song is expected to feature at the film's climax. On Tuesday morning, I left for a show at Andul and heard about his sad demise on my way. I was thinking that it could have been me too, as life has no guarantee.
 
 
 
  
  
 I featured in Dohar's first album and Kalikaprasad too was part of my album with Pete Lockett. It was because of the video, Primal, directed by Riingo and featuring Dohar, that I got my first Hindi project, Jal, with  . I also presented him in our Live in Lakes series. I was almost like an elder brother to him. A soft-spoken man, he was like a repository of folk music. If ever there was anything I needed to know about folk music, Kalika was my fallback option.
 
  
  
 
 Kalikada and I started work on Rosogolla about seven months ago. Since it's a period saga, I had requested him if we could use instruments that were in vogue in the early 19th century. He did just that. On Monday night, he told me it was now time to listen to the songs that we had already recorded and the next session would resume post Holi. I am left with voice dubbing for two songs and a part of the background score, which I'll complete with help from his team.
 
  
  
 Brahmakhyapa got its first-ever independent show because of Kalikada. We were offered to be part of a concert meant to celebrate Kabir Suman's music at Netaji Indore Stadium. Since I had no clue about the paperwork, I got in touch with him. Dohar too was part of the show and Kalikada promptly asked me to copy his letter. I was so naive that I forgot to change the band's name to Brahmakhyapa. Kalikada noticed it and made the necessary changes.
 
 
 
 
 
