… is a song that can make him dance anytime, anywhere. And he is making Rajarhat look on in awe. Meet  , the 59-year-old Dankuni resident and traffic marshal, who’s been grabbing eyeballs at the   gate 4 signal on Biswa bangla Sarani with his cool traffic control moves. And he’s at it from 
 

 A die-hard fan of Kishore Kumar, Ashok started out on his inspiring journey some seven years ago, when he was managing traffic in Ballygunge. “I’ve been working for a private security agency for the past 10 years and have always been on traffic duty. While managing traffic in Ballygunge on a day around seven years ago, I felt really low. Then I heard my favourite   song being played at a roadside shop. The song, coupled with the dance moves I visualized, boosted my mood in just seconds! That was the day when I decided to stay happy by following my heart,” he told us with a smile. The very next day, he thought of managing traffic while dancing. “And I don’t think I dance like a madman. Every day, I carry to work a fully charged mobile phone with 460 popular songs from the golden era. It plays on loop in my pocket all day and when the battery runs dry, I just sing and dance,” he said.
 
 Ashok told us that he draws satisfaction from the smiles he elicits from passersby. From schoolkids to office-goers, everyone would stop by him and ask for selfies. “I pose and click selfies with 20 strangers every day, but I love the kids the most. They have no inhibitions and match steps with me with equal joy,” he said.
 
 But even spreading happiness doesn’t come easy. And for Ashok, the biggest hurdle was his family’s reaction when they got to know about his dancing, as he had never told anyone at home about it. His 32-year-old son had come across a techie’s video of Ashok dancing while managing traffic and all hell broke loose at home. “I reached home and everyone looked so serious! My elder son made me sit with him and asked, ‘Aap kya kaam karte ho?’ When I replied that I manage traffic around the metro’s project area, he showed me the video that had hundreds of likes and shares on  . My family felt that I was ruining their name and respect by dancing. I was forced to stop dancing for a few days and was really down. A week later, my son came to me and said, ‘Papa, you continue with what gives you joy, but be careful on the road.’ The journey has been so much happier since then!”
 
 Well, we wish him more happiness ahead. After all, he’s spreading it too!
 
 
