THANE: The Thane   court on Thursday awarded life imprisonment till death to a man for brutally killing his wife, a French national, chopping her body and hiding the parts in a refrigerator in 2013.

 The accused, Girish Pote (35) was convicted on Wednesday under Indian Penal Code’s sections 302 for   and 201 for disappearance of evidence. The sentencing was kept for Thursday. Inside a packed courtroom, district and sessions court Judge Mridula Bhatia sentenced Pote to a prison term for as long as he lives. The convict will remain behind the bars his entire life and his body will be handed to the family after death. In her order, Judge Bhatia said, “You (Pote) will remain in prison not for 14 years but till your biological end.” 
 
 A visibly shocked Pote requested the judge to let him speak and moved an application seeking pardon. He made submissions to the judge for over 10 minutes saying he repented his actions and that he be shown leniency. 
 
 “I haven’t seen my child since a very long time and I want to meet him. Please show some mercy,” he said.
 
 Judge Bhatia said the order had now been passed and that he could lead a good life in prison by reading books, engaging in meaningful activities and even meeting his child. The judge reminded him that she had not given him death. “The court’s sympathy cannot be misplaced when the offence is so cruel in nature.” 
 
 In the order, the judge said, “Pote’s only defence was that his wife herself slit her throat and that he got scared and therefore merely cut her body into pieces. It is very uncommon for a person to commit suicide by decapitation and the throat was totally severed from the body... The knives were recovered from above the bathroom. It is not possible for someone to commit suicide by decapitation and keep the knives thereafter in the bathroom.” 
 
 Investigating officer Dinkar Pingle probed the crime and along with constable Mahesh Chavan assisted additional public prosecutor Buleshwar Hinge. The prosecutor said Pote was unemployed when he killed his wife,   (33). Pathak’s mother, Francois Roditi, was a famous flute player who regularly performed with Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia. She died in 2011 of cancer, leaving behind a flat in Mahim. Pathak sold the flat and bought another at Bhayander where she lived with Pote. 
 
 At the time of her death, Pathak had Rs 2 crore in her bank account. 
 
 
