CHANDIGARH: While   has taken  , including   to deal with the   (INLD)   (SYL) canal on Monday, senior party leader Abhay Singh Chautala would monitor the protest aerially from a helicopter. INLD has specially hired a helicopter for the purpose so that Abhay Chautala can oversee the protest at all five major points connecting Haryana with Punjab.

 Party has decided to block the Shambhu border and Lalru near Ambala, Dhanauri near Narwana, Ratia-Buddlada road (Jakhal point) in Fatehabad and Dabwali in Sirsa.
 
 As per the plan, to protest denial of SYL canal water by Punjab, INLD workers and leaders are to block all entry points in these areas so that no one from Punjab is allowed to enter Haryana on the day .
 
 Abhay Chautala, who is also the leader of opposition in Haryana, held a press conference on Saturday to give details about their one-day protest.He clarified that the blockade would not affect the movement of emergency vehicles.“Nobody else from Punjab, even those coming on bicycles, will be allowed to enter Harya na,“ he said.
 
 He also asked the Congress leaders to join the protest for the sake of Haryana.
 
 Contradicting Haryana education minister Ram Bilas Sharma, who had claimed that he had been requested by the government not to go ahead with the protest, Abhay Chautala said nobody from the government had approached him. Abhay said that INLD would not defer the protest even if the government ordered to open fire on them.
 
 He, however, said that if Prime Minister assured his party regarding appointment of some agency for implementation of the Supreme Court verdict regarding SYL water to Haryana, he would withdraw his protest.
 
 Regarding apprehensions of law and order situation on account of Monday's protest, Abhay Chautala said the INLD workers had been asked to remain polite while asking people from Punjab not to enter Haryana's territory . “It is a symbolic protest and we would even offer roses to people. We will try to convince them about Haryana's need for SYL water,“ he said.
 
 Balkaur Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Kalanwali assembly seat in Sirsa district, will join INLD leaders during Monday's protest to stop people from Punjab from entering Haryana. He will lead the protest in Dabwali area the on Haryana-Punjab border.
 
