NAVI MUMBAI: Haphazard parking, especially on various roadsides, is one of the major issues plaguing the city. So, the civic administration will be addressing this issue by commissioning   systems on various stretches across all its wards. 

 Thirty-nine such spots across various nodes and 11 spots on   have been identified where pay-and-park facilities could be implemented.
 
 A survey was undertaken to identify the spots where parking issues persisted. Accordingly, measures were formulated. “Vehicles parked haphazardly alongside roadsides were one of the major problems in the city. To address this, we have decided to have pay-and-park system in these areas so that parking gets regularized. On these stretches the number of vehicles that can be parked have also been ascertained,” said an official. 
 
 The spots identified are to be tendered to private contractors and, if sources are to be believed, can accommodate over 7,000 vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers.
 
 “These spots have been identified after a joint survey with the traffic police. Illegal parking is rampant on these stretches. Within two months, these stretches should be free of illegal parking. In the tender bid, technical aspects, such as providing check-in cards and installation of sensors, are also being incorporated,” said additional municipal commissioner, Ankush Chavan. 
 
 Some areas to have pay-and-park facilities are road opposite police commissioner’s office in Belapur, area opposite Vazirani sports complex and the spot opposite Vashi police chowky to  . 
 
 The decision to regularize parking is being incorporated even on Thane-Belapur Road, where 11 spots have been identified to start pay-and-park facilities. About 450 two-wheelers, 150 four-wheelers and 20 trucks can be parked in these facilities on Thane-Belapur Road. Often, many professionals working in various companies located on this stretch have complained about the lack of designated parking facilities. As a result, haphazard parking is rampant on this road. 
 
 
