We all are familiar with   Singh’s quick-wit and her flawless comic timing. The bubbly stand-up comedian also leaves no stones unturned in making people fall off their seats with her humor. In town for an event, Bharti talks about her fondness for Jaipur’s silver jewelry, her connection with big stars and the difficulties that she faced on her road to success.
 
  Bharti’s busy schedule and short trips have averted her from strolling around local markets. She says, “I have heard a lot about Jaipur’s silver jewelry, but due to time constraints I never get to see the local markets. I really wish to buy them. Hopefully, I will get them next time.”
  
  Success was not an easy road for Bharti as the comedian had to go through body shaming in the beginning of her career. She said, “I have gone through body shaming and name calling because of my weight but instead of hiding from such people I faced them with a lot more determination. I accepted the way God has made me and I decided that I will never let anyone demoralize me. In fact, I turned my weaknesses into my strength and now you can see where I am.”
  
  Undeterred and determined, Bharti knows well how to handle haters, she says, “Aisa nahi hai ki mujhe gussa nahi aata. Kabhi kabhi log limit cross kar jate hain toh takleef bhi hoti hai. But, now people have understood that they can’t just get away by saying anything to me, I have learned to speak up.”
  
  Flirting with actors is the part of the job and Bharti admits that she enjoys doing this bit in her shows the most. She said, “It’s a part of the scripts to involve actors and entertain viewers, we have to show our camaraderie with them in the act. I have always got the support of big actors like   and   and I am thankful for that.”
  
  Talking about rumors of her participating in a dance reality show with her fiance Harsh, who is the writer of her comedy show, she said, “Harsh backstage kaam karne wale logo mein se hai. He has stage phobia and doesn’t want to come in front of the camera. However, I all set to participate and I'm trying my best to convince him.”
  
  
 
  
 
