BATHINDA: A retrenched unskilled worker of agricultural implements unit at Handiaya village in   district set himself on fire on Thursday. Victim Jugraj Singh (52) of Rureke village in Barnala has been referred to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, with nearly 45 per cent burns. He had been waiting for the wages for the last nearly two months. 

 His company   ( ) was to pay wages of the 20 laid-off employees on Thursday. They had been promised the payment of the dues. Jugraj was taking part in a protest in this regard and without waiting any longer he suddenly immolated himself at the gate of the factory. 
 
 Jugraj had worked for some months as a temporary unskilled worker and wages of nearly two months totalling Rs 21,000 were pending with the factory.
 
 His son Amrit Singh said that, "The factory had fired some workers nearly two months ago and the owners were making excuses over paying the wages to my father. My father and other retrenched workers had been protesting for the last two months and on February 28, a compromise was reached under which the factory management was to pay them money on March 1 and 2. Even today, they did not pay the wages and upset over that my father set himself ablaze."
 
 Labour organisation   convener Gurpreet Singh Rureke said that, "The company was exploiting the workers. After retrenching the unskilled workers, the factory was not paying the wages and provident fund. We were holding dharnas outside the unit when Jugraj took the extreme step."
 
 Managing director of SCIL Nachhattar Singh said, "We never denied arrears to some workers, who were not working with us now. We had paid some on Wednesday and were to pay even on Thursday but Jugraj somehow tried to immolate himself. We took Jugraj to Barnala hospital and then to Ludhiana and paid for his treatment."
 
 Nachhattar argued that a Barnala court had on February 2 granted stay against any protest outside their factory till March 10. But despite that the activists of farmer and labourer unions were agitating there, he added.
 
 Barnala DSP Palwinder Singh Cheema said that, "A police team was sent to record Jugraj's statement but doctors declared him unfit for that. We are waiting him to be fit to record his statement and any action will be taken after that." 
 
 
