CHENNAI: Seventeen-year-old visually challenged   was all smiles on Friday as she sat in a bright yellow dress at the   Convent in   , clasping her friend's hand, discussing her Class XII results.

 Orphaned at 4, Andal has come a long way from where she began her rather difficult journey and managed to secure the top marks in her school. With a total of 1112, Andal secured 92.6% in the  
 
 “I was 7 months old when my mother died. By the time I turned 4, I lost my father too. I was taken care of by my aunt since my childhood," said Andal, who has four siblings, including a visually impaired brother and another who is differently abled.
 
 Sitting beside her aunt Parvathy, whose pride was evident even from a distance, she shared her dream of becoming an IAS officer and her intent to work toward helping the visually challenged. “I hope to bring a change in the minds of people in the way they perceive visual impairment as they face a lot of difficulties,"says Andal, who is planning to pursue an Arts degree in English in Stella Maris College.
 
 Equipped with good command over her subjects and a keenness to be updated about current affairs, she is confident that she will succeed in fulfilling her dream. And she ensures that she does not compromise in using all the required study tools to enhance her learning.
 
 “I turned to technology and started listening to audio books, iPods, and use recording devices to store my lessons,“ she said.
 
 She also uses a software that technically assists her learning sessions. The software is funded by charitable trusts.
 
 “When I scored top rank in my 10th I was motivated to keep myself updated with newspapers and magazines, which helped me increase my awareness about the society and the various issues,"said Andal who secured a centum in History .
 
 Her teachers too were all praise for her confidence. “I feel very happy that she has proved herself. With partial impair ment, she had to struggle a lot to read. Her retina was damaged at a young age which causes sensitivity towards lights. This also caused headaches and a dizzy feeling. She has overcome all that to make it to the top," said C Margaret, an English teacher at the convent.
 
