BHOPAL: The silver medallist in the   rankings has fallen way behind in cleanliness at its main  . Bhopal junction has ranked a grimy 374 out of 407 stations in the country, plunging down from 69th position last year.

 The saving grace for the city — if it can be called that — is that Habibganj station came 51st in the Third Party Audit Report on Station Cleanliness released by railways minister Suresh Prabhu on Wednesday. There isn’t much cheer for the state that had 25 cities in the top 100 in Swachh Sarvekshan. Apart from Damoh (20), there were red flags on the Swachh factor at all other stations surveyed, including Indore. The City of Holkars, which topped the Swachh city survey, came a poor 45 for its station. Even Habibganj’s rank is far from a success. It has slipped from 16th position last year. 
 
 Bhopal scored 499 points on a scale of 1,000. It scored ‘pass marks’ in only two categories: main entry (49.34%) and main platform (67.9%). It scored miserably in parking area cleanliness (15.02%), cleaning staff (29.36%) and waiting room (31.57%). More than 130 trains originate or pass via Bhopal station while 48 trains pass through Habibganj railway station.
 
 Asked about the dismal score, BMC additional commissioner M P Singh said: “The municipal corporation has no role in the maintenance of railway station.” Social activist Abdul Jabbar pointed out that red flags on sanitation have been raised for years. “I have approached the district administration and state government over inconvenience caused by stray animals along   approach road,” he said. 
 
 Damoh is the only station from Madhya Pradesh in the top 20, making the cut by the skin of its teeth. It scored 799 points, just two ahead of Bhuj in Gujarat.
 
 Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Beas in Punjab are the cleanest in A1 and A categories. Khammam in Telangana has shot up to second in A category from a low of 285 the previous year. 
 
 The parameters adopted for the survey were cleanliness of the parking lot, main entry area, main platform and waiting room. A third each of weightage was derived from process audit, direct observation by QCI assessors and passenger feedback. A 24x7 control room was set up and images were geo-tagged to monitor progress.
 
 The survey was conducted through interviews with respondents on a questionnaire on cleanliness indicators, which was done face-to-face by survey teams visiting 407 stations across 16 railway zones. Every passenger was asked to rate the cleanliness of stations on 40 parameters. 
 
