MEWAT: The family of  , who was lynched allegedly by a group of   in Alwar in April, is planning to move court to challenge Rajasthan police’s clean chit to six accused who were arrested earlier in connection with the murder of the 55-year-old.

 The family is unhappy about the way police conducted the probe so far and let off the six persons — Jagmal Yadav, Om Yadav, Hukum Chand Yadav, Sudhir Yadav, Naveen Sharma and Rahul Saini — who were named, among others, by Khan in his dying statement.
 
 “We reject the police claims. We want a   into the case, which should be monitored by the court,” said Irshad, Pehlu’s 24-year-old son.
 
 Irshad and his younger brother Arif (19) were with Pehlu, a dairy farmer from Jaisinghpur in Nuh of Mewat, on April 1. The two brothers were also injured in the attack. Pehlu succumbed to his injuries in hospital two days later.
 
 Irshad claimed he and his brother were eyewitnesses in the case but the police did not even record their statements. “The accused have been given a clean chit on the basis of the statement of a worker of a cow shelter that belongs to one of the accused, and their mobile phone locations. Can’t they leave their phones behind? How can they (police) declare them innocent merely on the basis of the mobile phone location?” questioned Arif.
 
 Jaibuna Begum, Pehlu’s widow, said, “My husband was killed and my sons have been booked for cow smuggling. And after all these, they (police) have done this to us. But our fight for justice will continue even if we have to sell whatever little land we have. We will go to the high court and the Supreme Court.”
 
 Irshad said they would move the Rajasthan high court, seeking transfer of the case either to Delhi or Haryana. “We have been getting threats in Rajasthan. They say ‘yahaan tareekh par aaye, toh usko maar diya aur ab tumko bhi maar denge (if you come for hearing, we will kill you too the way we killed your father),” alleged Irshad.
 
 Lawyer Shehzad Poonawalla will file a petition in the apex court on September 22 on behalf of the family, seeking a fresh probe into Khan’s murder. Tehseen Poonawalla, who had earlier filed a petition in the Supreme Court against cow vigilantism, has offered the family financial and legal aid for the case.
 
 Pehlu and his sons were attacked when they were returning home to Haryana after purchasing cattle at a government fair in Alwar. The case was handed over to the crime investigation department-crime branch (CID-CB) in July. The CB-CID handed over its report to the Alwar police on September 1.
 
