BENGALURU:   (PWD) minister H C   has been at the forefront of organizing the B R Ambedkar international   titled ‘Reclaiming Social Justice, Revisiting Ambedkar’ in Bengaluru from July 21 to 23. A prominent   leader from Karnataka, Mahadevappa told TOI on Wednesday that it is imperative for various Dalit factions to join hands to fight regressive forces.

 
 
 
 The Dalit movement is not as strong as it was prior to the 1980s. One reason for its weakening was the Dalit Sangharsha Samithi’s split. I am trying to bring all the factions together. It is necessary for them to unite to fight fascist forces. 
 
 
 
 
 Ambedkar was a great democrat, which is why even former US president Barack Obama recognized his extraordinary contributions to India in his address to the Indian parliament in November 2010. However, Ambedkar is being used as a political card by many today.
 
 
 
 
 The idea to organize a global event came up when chief minister Siddaramaiah, some friends and I were having a discussion on the United Nations celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of Ambedkar, his struggle and how to empower the downtrodden. We decided it was appropriate to host an international event in the background of the rise of fascist forces and intolerance.
 
 
 
 
 Ambedkar had mooted the reservation policy for the first 10 years to uplift Dalit socially, economically and in the education sector. According to me, as long as there is discrimination towards the scheduled castes, the reservation policy also must continue. 
 
 
 
 
 BENGALURU: Prominent names, from both India and abroad, make up the list of speakers who will participate in the three-day international conference to mark Ambedkar’s 126th birth anniversary. The event aims to leverage his life and work as an inspiration and also to critically reflect on the contemporary significance of social, political and economic justice in India, and across the world.
 
 The international speakers include Prof Cornel West, Lord Bhikhu Parekh, Prof James Manor, Prof Thomas Weisskopf, Prof Upendra Baxi, Prof Laurence Simon, Prof Samuel Myers and Prof Ashutosh Varshney. Human rights activist Martin Luther King III will flag off the event, being conducted by the government at the GKVK campus, along with Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Friday.
 
 Among the national speakers are Sukhadeo Thorat, Aruna Roy, Shashi Tharoor, Wilson Bezwada, Devanuru Mahadeva, G K Govinda Rao, Siddalingaiah, K Maralusiddappa and Rajendra Chenni.
 
 The Karnataka government will release a Bengaluru Declaration, which will outline specific constitutional, institutional and policy responses on social justice, human rights, freedom and democracy.
 
