NEW DELHI: From a humble Dalit advocate doubling up as a political party's booth agent in   to be among a chosen few appointed to a high constitutional post in 2009 and then pushing the self-destruct button to end up in jail in 2017.

 This is Justice Chinnaswamy Swaminathan Karnan's unenviable roller-coaster 15-year journey and could be the script for a Bollywood film. Described by his ex-colleagues in Madras HC as a loner who gave vent to his persecution mentality,   resorted to wild allegations against judges and successive chief justices of Madras HC almost immediately after he took oath as a judge in March 2009.
 
 He regularly wrote to the President, the CJI and the chairperson of the SC Commission accusing other judges of discriminatory behaviour towards him. Nearly two years ago, he threatened contempt proceedings against then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, forcing Madras HC to rush to the SC for remedy. The SC stayed Justice Karnan's order. To avoid such embarrassment, the SC collegium headed by then CJI TS Thakur transferred Justice Karnan from Madras HC to   in March last year.
 
 Acerbic verbal attacks against his colleagues and flaunting the Dalit card did not go with his humble background. He was born on June 12, 1955 at Karnatham village in Tamil Nadu's Cuddalore district. His father was a President's award winning teacher but it was his mother who taught him in his childhood. In school, he was an NCC cadet.
 
 Justice Karnan completed his bachelor in law degree from   in 1983 and immediately enrolled as an advocate. He had an inclination towards politics and became a booth-level election agent for AIADMK in the 2002 assembly polls. He got disenchanted with the party and switched allegiance to Congress, an   report said.
 
 By 2005, he was a known face in Madras HC as he served as legal adviser for Chennai Metro Water, as a government advocate and even as standing counsel for the central government in the HC. He was appointed as a judge in 2009.
 
 In 2015, Justice Karnan plunged Madras HC into a huge crisis by threatening contempt of court proceedings against then CJ Sanjay Kishan Kaul, now a judge of the SC, by accusing him of interfering in his judicial work and seeking a CBI probe into alleged forged educational qualification of another HC judge.
 
 Apart from contempt of court action, Justice Karnan threatened to pass orders and direct the National Commission for Scheduled Castes to initiate a detailed inquiry against the HC chief justice for harassing him, a member of the Dalit community. He also threatened to slap a case against the chief justice under stringent provisions of SCST Atrocities (Prevention) Act.
 
 A beleaguered HC rushed to the SC and accused Justice Karnan of judicial indiscipline, challenging the authority of the HC CJ, passing order without jurisdiction and lacking in self-restraint.On May 11, 2015, the SC restrained Justice Karnan from initiating any action against the chief justice.
 
 But restraint was a word alien to Justice Karnan, who continued his diatribe against the CJ and other judges and kept writing letters to the PM, the CJI and circulated the letters among advocates. Exasperated by his indiscipline, the SC advised the President to transfer him to Calcutta HC. The end game began on January 23 when he wrote to the CBI director to probe corruption charges against 20 sitting and retired judges of the SC and Madras HC. The apex court initiated contempt proceedings against him on February 8.
 
