SHIMLA: Public outrage against the proposed 300 MW   was witnessed in a public meeting held at Jispa in Lahaul-Spiti district on Monday with residents making it clear that they would not allow the project. Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (HPPCL) managing director Devesh Kumar tried to persuade the people by telling them about the national importance of project but they refused to buy his argument. Fierce opposition forced the officials to leave the meeting without any outcome.

 The process to prepare a detailed project report is going on since 2010 and so far HPPCL has already spent around Rs 3-4 crore on the project. Since 2009, people of Todh valley in Lahaul-Spiti district are opposing the Jispa Dam project proposed over   river, a tributary of Chenab, at Jispa village. The government had even sanctioned Rs 7,000 crore for the said project, but the locals did not allow the officials to work smoothly at the site all these years.
 
 Convener of Jispa Baandh Jan Sangarsh Samiti (JBJSS) Rigzin   said hundreds of residents of the affected villages had made it clear to the officials that they would not allow the valley to be ruined in the name of development. He added that merely on the ground that the project was of national importance, destruction of fragile ecology could not be allowed.
 
 Zila parishad member from Kwaring Chhime Lhamo said the state government wanted to construct the dam against the wishes of the local people. She said that from the start the people were against the project but the government was not scrapping it. “Development at the cost of destruction cannot be allowed,” she added.
 
 Padma Thilley (47) of Gemur village said in the name of development, the government wanted to displace hundreds of residents. “We have lived here for many generations and now all of a sudden we are being asked to leave our land and homes. We will prefer to die than to leave our villages,” he said.
 
 Chhetan Zangmo, also from Gemur village, said that the state government had failed to learn lessons from Kinnaur where hydropower projects had ruined the entire valley. She added that Lahaul-Spiti had potential for tourism and after the opening of Rohtang tunnel, rush of tourists will increase in the district. “Instead of damaging the Lahaul valley in the name of hydro projects, the state should work to promote eco-tourism here,” she added.
 
 Report ‘Changing the colours of Chenab’ on hydropower development in Lahaul valley prepared by Himdhara, an environment research and action collective, had stated that the Chenab basin was the last frontier of hydropower development in Himachal Pradesh. It is the only large river basin where hydro projects were still to come up. it said, adding that 49 hydro-projects were under different stages of implementation, most of these being in the Lahaul valley.
 
  of Himadhara said, “People of Lahaul have expressed apprehensions about hydropower development because of recurring floods, cloudbursts and avalanches making the area too fragile for such construction activity.”
 
 
