KOTTAYAM: It was a usual day for former chief minister  , who reached his home district in the early hours of Sunday, until the car he was travelling in was waylaid by a pack of dogs.

 Chandy, who came from Coimbatore by train, reached   around 4.30am. Instead of going to his house at Puthuppally here, he proceeded to tourist bungalow (TB) of public works department here to freshen up before going to Puthupally church for Sunday mass.
 
 When the car reached the gate of the bungalow, the   leader and others in the vehicle could not step out as the pack of violent stray dogs, around twenty of them, were barking fiercely and loudly at the entrance and ran after the vehicle till the porch.
 
 According to Sreekumar M S, personal security officer of Chandy, those inside the car were stunned for a few minutes. Soon, a staff member of the TB came to their rescue, who threw stones to disperse the dogs.
 
 Incidents of stray dog attacks have been on the rise at an alarming rate in the state leading to public outrage. Many incidents were reported from the district alone.
 
 Local bodies here, including, e   and district panchayat, are ruled by the Congress-led UDF. 
 
 The municipality would soon hold a meeting to discuss about the   in the wake of the bitter experience the former CM faced.
 
 The district panchayat's animal birth control (ABC) project launched last year was expected to curb the menace. However, the programme is yet to take off completely. “The government has directed to implement the project through Kudumbashree units. So we had to modify the initial plan of action and are now giving training to Kudumbashree workers,” said Joshy Philip, district panchayat president, who became district Congress committee president recently.
 
 Meanwhile, municipal chairperson P R Sona said the district panchayat was responsible for containing the menace through the ABC programme. The municipality has handed over Rs 5 lakh to the panchayat, she said.
 
 Now, the municipality is planning to start its own ABC programme. “We need to set up facilities for a post-operative ward for the stray dogs after sterilisation," said health committee chairperson Sheeba Punnen. A panel from the municipality lead by Sheeba will visit Changanassery on Tuesday to study about project implementation.
 
 
