NAGPUR: Aiming to end the monopoly of Unity,   recruiting and handling company of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) run buses, Delhi Integrated Multimodal Transit System (DIMTS) hired another company, Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) India Limited recently, functioning as an independent agency simultaneously.

 The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has also given its nod to DIMTS’ (a   appointed to monitor city bus  ) move, said transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde. Chandra Prakash Tiwari, head, DIMTS, said, “Hiring two companies for conductors’ management was the actual plan and for months we were searching for a company to split the work with Unity, and hence SIS came to the rescue. The company has international standards and is on par with our main priority of serving the people better. We are still finalizing the number of conductors and depots SIS will handle, aiming to provide better transportation services.”
 
 Tiwari added that one of the main reasons to recruit another company was to reduce the chances of public grievance due to strike by conductors or the company itself. Tiwari added, “If one company fails to live up to the people expectations or the conductors go on a strike, the other will come into full force so that the public does not face any difficulty.”
 
 Sources told TOI that currently SIS handles 300 conductors and the work is divided in the ratio of 60:40 between Unity and SIS respectively.
 
 Manjit Singh, a representative of SIS, said, “We hope to provide state-of-the-art services to the people of Nagpur, accompanied with smooth working by conductors and depot handling. Our security rules are simple and conductors function smoothly in full cooperation with us. DIMTS has hired more conductors than required which results in the latter not being given enough work. SIS has also burdened the conductors by charging Rs12000 as deposit. We condemn this gesture and, demand DIMTS as well as NMC to look into the matter.”
 
 Ranglal Tiwari, city representative of Maharashtra General Kamgar Union, alleged that DIMTS has ignored hiring old conductors (around 400) and instead hired new conductors more than required which results in the latter not being given enough work. SIS has also burdened the conductors by asking Rs12000 as security deposit. Kukde too confirmed of receiving complaints and assured to look into the matter.
 
 ‘Appoint NMC staff on every depot’: Taking serious cognisance of no NMC staffer at   depot and at DIMTS office, transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde has approached the municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and transport department general manager Shivaji Jagtap and urged to recruit civic official at every bus depot in the city. “The move is being done to promote transparent working in the city bus services and not being dependent only on the data provided by DIMTS,” he said. 
 
 
