THANE: Devoid of basic civic infrastructure from transportation and proper water supply to gardens and public health centres,   ward is far from being a  .

 Residents of this densely populated ward, which seems to have been completely overlooked by the civic body and politicos over the years, have a lot of false promises and actual civic initiatives to weigh out before they go out and cast their votes in the upcoming civic  .
 
 With around 77% of closely built illegal structures in this pocket, the ward not only lacks regular water supply, but also a proper sewage system integrated with the main civic line. There are also no sewage treatment plants or septic tanks. With no bins and a lax waste collection, segregation and management process, most of the solid waste from here is dumped into the massive stinking Mittal ground nullah that borders the ward.
 
 Despite this unhygienic condition, this area, which houses over 60,000 people, doesn’t have a single public health centre. “In Mumbra getting a gutter cleaned is a miracle. The stench and mosquitoes from the drain affects residents living along this entire stretch. If this main drain is not cleaned, there is no hope for the other small drains flowing through the city. Malaria, dengue and such illnesses are as common as cough and cold,” said Irfan Khan, a resident of   area.
 
 Narrow internal roads lack decent footpaths. The few available have been encroached upon. The lack of basic recreational facilities — gardens and community centres like theatres and auditoriums — has added to the list of woes of citizens here. “We have to play at home or the school ground. The beautiful creek and hills here have been disfigured with waste, it’s disheartening,” said Shazia Altaf, an 11-year-old resident.
 
 This small area has 14 schools within its boundaries. Twelve function in a building that lacks proper benches, clean toilets, libraries and water supply. Two other schools 100 meters away have no washrooms and use those at the multi-schooled building.
 
 Lack of public transportation further aggravates traffic on the narrow crowded roads. While the ward is in dire need of almost everything, citizens still haven’t lost hope. “Things have been this way in our area for years. If we need medical help, we go to the PHC in the next ward or Kalwa hospital. When we don’t have water, we get tankers. We vote in every election with the hope that our issues would be solved. We got a new Kausa stadium this year. Hopefully other facilities will come soon,” said Hamid Shaikh, a resident.
 
 
