PANAJI: Being a community festival, the   can serve as the perfect platform to promote sanitation and the need for toilets, said social entrepreneur  . Widely known as Mr Toilet, Sim was speaking about creating a global movement for sanitation at the concluding lecture of the D D Kosambi festival of ideas.

 “Turning toilets into a demand driven campaign is very important. In India, the problem today is that after the decision to build 100 million toilets (under the Swacch Bharat campaign), there is no concrete conversation between the central and state governments, collectors, panchayats and NGOs. This conversation we can have at the Goa carnival and disseminate the information to everybody,” he said.
 
 He added that he has discussed the same with governor Mridula Sinha. “This carnival, if planned properly, can be very educational not just for the people who don’t have a toilet but also for government officials at different levels,” he added. The idea stems from a parade in Indonesia that featured a tableau that had a demon on the commode.
 
 Sim founded the   in 2001 and owing to his efforts, November 19 has been declared by the   as World Toilet Day. Through a montage of photographs, Sim shared images of World Toilet Day celebrations across the world.
 
 Having broken the global taboo around toilets and sanitation through a mix of humour and serious facts, he spoke about the need to speak up about defecation. “It is not a glamorous subject to speak about. But what you don’t talk about, you cannot improve,” he said.
 
 He highlighted the evils of open defecation wherein women are the victims of molestation, rape and sometimes murder only because they don’t have access to a toilet facility. 
 
 “This is happening because we refuse to talk about toilets,” he said.
 
 Sim went on to speak about his global campaign which gradually caught the attention of Bill Gates, Matt Damon and even Shahrukh Khan. “As a result of these efforts, film actor Vidhya Balan is the India sanitation brand ambassador. Narendra Modi won landslide elections on the toilet ticket,” added Sim. 
 
 “A sick nation cannot be a productive and competitive nation. India is able to rise today without wide availability of toilets. Imagine if there are toilets everywhere, it’ll become such a powerful nation.” he said.
 
 
