GURUGRAM: If you chance upon muscular men, clad in bright coloured jerseys, engaged in rigorous training sessions at   in  , don’t be surprised. Around 21 players of the Dabang Delhi   have been camping inside the university for over 20 days, preparing themselves ahead of the fifth edition of the  , which starts on July 28.

 As part of their training programme, the athletes begin their day at 5.30am, with two-hour session of lifting, stretching and running on a treadmill. After a proper session of exercise, the kabaddi champions lock horns with their teammates, who double up as opponents during the practice hours.
 
 Apart from having players from different part of the country, two Iranians are also part of Dabang Delhi team. 
 
 “It is their final training camp,” said Gurbir Singh, director of sports at Munjal University and a former Olympian himself. “They chose this place because of its proximity to New Delhi.”
 
 TOI caught up with few athletes from the Delhi team and asked them about their preparations. “We are trying to be ready before the Pro Kabaddi league begins,” said Yatharth Deshwal, a kabaddi player from Uttarakhand. “The practice is going on in full swing.”
 
 The players also have a meticulous diet plan. “They can’t weigh beyond 85 kg,” explained Saurabh Deshmukh, the team physio. “Their weight has to be constantly monitored. It is imperative that they keep themselves hydrated. Seven litres of water a day is must and they have to abstain from sweets.
 
 The team manager Omkar Prabhu briefed TOI about the fitness regime for the last 20 days. “ For the first 15 days of their training they focused on their fitness and endurance,” he said. “During the remaining days, their focus was on skills and moves, with sessions lasting for two and half hours.”
 
 Shubham Palkar, a Nagpur-based player, said he was both anxious and happy about the upcoming tournament. “I qualified for the Nagpur trails last October before that I was part of two more trails held in Gandhi Nagar and Mumbai,” he said. 
 
 
