PATNA: While fire incidents are on the rise in different parts of the state, the   (BFS) is not of much help as it is itself struggling with huge crunch of fire tender drivers due to the home guards’ strike.

 The situation has reached to a point where the BFS has sought help from   (BSTDC) to arrange drivers on urgent basis. Sources said the BSTDC is likely to provide 143 drivers to the BFS to meet the emergency demands.
 
 More than 250 home guard jawans, who were engaged as driver-cum-fireman, are on strike along with their colleagues. Their strike has made the mist technology water tenders across the state non-functional.
 
 BFS sources said Patna has 10 fire stations with 24 big water tenders and 17 mist technology water tenders (1 tonne, 400 litres capacity). “We are somehow managing drivers for normal water tenders but all the 17 small tenders in Patna are non-functional due to non-availability of drivers. The home guard jawans, prior to going on strike, were working as drivers for these tenders,” said a source on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Sources said BFS has around 107 functional fire stations across the state with 260 big and 209 mist technology fire tenders. 
 
 DG (Home guard and fire services) P N   said BSTDC would provide drivers to BFS very soon. “If required, more drivers would be hired from the corporation for operating fire tenders. Talks were on for the past two weeks,” he added.
 
 The soaring temperature across the state has resulted in heavy damage to crops ready for harvesting on hundred of acres of land within a fortnight.
 
 The DG also held a state-level meeting on Tuesday with   (relief) in all the districts, district commandants of home guards and fire service station officers of all districts via videoconference to find a solution.
 
 He said orders have been given to analyse the reason behind fire and take preventive and precautionary steps. “Officers have also been asked to ensure availability in water tenders at local level of water round the clock,” the DG added.
 
 Rai said drivers for fire tenders have been made available in several districts by the local level authorities. “The district magistrates have also been asked to ensure the availability of fire tender drivers,” he said.
 
 Sources said even after getting drivers from the BSTDC, the state fire service would face a lot of problems as they are not trained in firefighting.
 
