GURUGRAM: Residents of  , a residential complex on Golf Course Road, have accused developer   of stopping them from using the rear gate of their society, which serves as the exit gate.

 According to residents, around 2.30am on Friday, trucks with covered number plates dumped large quantities of mud in front of the rear gate, blocking it. Residents immediately called police, following which the mud was cleared and the gate was reopened.
 
 The facility management service (FMS) of Palm Spring said a rear exit gate was promised to the residents before occupation, and were told that it would become operational once construction ofthe Palm Spring Plaza next door is completed. Palm Spring Plaza, which is also an Emaar property, is a commercial building next to Palm Spring. As promised, the rear gate started functioning as a motorway exit in the first week of January.
 
 However, in the first week of April, prior to the mud being dumped, grilles covering the drains at the rear gate went missing. According to FMS, this is what prevented vehicular movement.
 
 “We spoke to the Palm Plaza authorities, asking them to replace the drain covers because it was causing inconvenience to residents, but they didn’t pay heed. Eventually, we replaced them ourselves on April 23. Palm Spring Plaza authorities questioned us for doing this, although we were well within our rights, ” said B D Yadav, estate manager of Palm Spring. 
 
 Access to the main entrance of Palm Spring has been restricted due to ongoing Metro and underpass construction on Golf Course Road, inconveniencing both residents and visitors, for whom an operational exit gate has become more important now. “We’re worried about emergencies. If there’s a fire in the society, how will a fire tender enter? Even school buses pick up and drop our kids at the exit gate as there’s very little space at the main entrance,” said another Palm Spring resident.
 
 FMS believes the developer wants to block the gate and build a wall there, to shut down the adjacent pathway that allows poor people, mostly domestic helps living in the society, access to their quarters within the complex.
 
 The completion drawings of the society, which have been approved by the district town planner, shows a rear gate with boom barriers. The court summoned Emaar Lands Limited, Emaar Services Private Limited and the district town planner, after the RWA filed a case. An FIR was also lodged by the RWA at Sushant Lok police station, after Friday’s incident of dumping mud.
 
 “We have not blocked any gate. Repair work is being carried out within Palm Spring Plaza and not in Palm Spring. Their main entry and exit gates, which open to the sector road, are intact. There’s no blockade,” said the official spokesperson of Emaar.
 
 
