AHMEDABAD: Pre-wedding festivity on Friday night turned into a nightmare for the Pathan family in   locality when more than 80 guests suffered corneal burns because of strong halogen lights. The guests ended up with swollen red eyes with tears rolling down and were in immense pain. Most had to be rushed to the Nagri Eye Hospital for first aid. 

 Corneal flash burns are injuries caused to the cornea — the clear window of tissue at the front of the eyeball. The cornea is damaged by exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun and from other sources of ultraviolet light, such as a welder’s arc, a photographer's flood lamps, a sun lamp, or even a halogen desk lamp.
 
 Superintendent of Nagri Hospital, Tejasben Desai, said that usually such symptoms are seen in welders. 
 
 “We call it light phototoxicity,” she said. “It occurs when the eyes are exposed to unchecked strong light.”
 
 Exposure to strong light affects the cornea cell resulting in swelling of the outer layer. 
 
 “All patients were given treatment as outdoor patients and discharged,” Desai said. “We have asked them to come back on Monday for a routine checkup. Usually the results begin to show up only after 24 hours.”
 
  an employee of BSNL and a resident of Post and   in Shah-e-Alam said they were at another place where arrangements for the wedding were going on. “The incident took place at the residence where the pre-wedding rituals and garba were on,” he said.
 
 A Chinese halogen was installed at the venue. Hence relatives who were present there were affected. “We have now ensured that the halogen lamps installed for the nikaah ceremony and at the dinner venue is properly protected halogen,” Pathan said.
 
 He further said that this was not the first incident in area. In the past, there were around 150 people who were affected due to Chinese halogen lamps. He further said that his daughter, Sabiyabanu, has been asked not to wash her face for nearly 24 hours and has been advised not to put make-up. “The bride will have to attend her Nikaah without any makeup. I wonder what must be going through her mind,” Pathan said.
 
 Ayub Pathan said that the function was going on till 3 pm and, till then, no one had realized and those who felt the burning sensation thought that it was because they were awake the previous night. 
 
 Those who realized that something was wrong, went to LG and VS hospital and received treatment. “But the guests at the home realized the problem only in the morning when they got up,” Ayub Pathan said. He further said that not only from Shah-e-Alam but relatives staying in Jamalpur, Juhapura and even Sanand were affected.
 
