RAJAVAT ( ): It’s a virtual   forest with hundreds of trees bearing this pulpy fruit spread across the hilly terrain. You could be tempted to pluck one but do it at your own peril. You could be fined as much as Rs 100 per fruit taken away if caught by any villager of Rajavat, a tiny hamlet in Chhota Udepur’s Kawant taluka.

 Though growing in the wild, villagers here safeguard the trees just like parents would protect their earning son. And why wouldn’t they? After all, it is after many years of exploitation by fruit merchants’ agents that they have been able to earn handsomely by selling  . In fact, among the cluster of 30 villages where custard apples grow in the wild, Rajavat has emerged as a model village that has sent commission agents packing by directly selling the fruits under the forest department’s joint forest management.
 
  “The prevalent system for generations was that agents from Kawant would come here and pay Rs 4-Rs 5 per kg of sitaphal. They had calibrated their weighing scales in such a way that it always showed less quantity and gullible villagers got less money,” says Shankar Rathwa, who heads the village self-help group in Rajavat.
 
 What started as a small experiment in seven villages in 2011, now covers 30 villages. The villagers now earn at least Rs 50 per kg of custard apples.
 
 What’s more, they now have market linkages to   and others, to sell the fruits. These villagers were taught how to grade the custard apples so that they can bargain for the best price. A similar model was adopted in other villages of Chhota Udepur. 
 
 But initiating them into the new system wasn’t easy despite being told that they would earn 10 times more than what they were getting.
 
 JJ Pathan, range forest officer, Pavi Jetpur added, “To attract them to the scheme, we gave them equipment for social functions like mandap, vessels for mass kitchens and music system that they rent out and earn Rs 1,500 per function. But there was a time when women had come and dumped all vessels at our office saying that they don’t want to earn cash as their husbands would squander all the money instead of saving or use them on liquor.” It was after hectic convincing sessions that they finally agreed.
 
 Like charoli, the village committee is extremely protective about the trees. As per their rules, no one is allowed to graze cattle in the wild near custard apple trees. Importantly, not a single fruit goes out for free. Not even to the forest department staff!
 
 “We keep a close watch on the forest and penalty collected is deposited in the savings account,” said Amru Rathwa, another villager.
 
