MANDYA:   seem to be continuing in   district with another JD(S) worker being killed, allegedly by  , in Murukanahalli village of   on Saturday night. 

  Harish, 32, a JD(S) worker, was allegedly stabbed to death by Rakshit, 25, and Yogesh, 28, said to be Congress workers, over political rivalry. Krishnegowda, another JD(S) worker who was with Harish, was also attacked and injured. As news of his death spread like wildfire, hundreds of enraged JD(S) workers went on an arson spree, setting afire two houses and a number of vehicles which reportedly belonged to the accused. 
 
  The arson continued for more than three hours and the entire village turned into a battleground. The situation in the village was so tense that two SPs from the neighbouring districts of Mysuru and Hassan rushed to the spot to take control with the available security forces. The senior officers had a tough time bringing the situation under control and pacifying the unruly mob. The situation at the crime spot, where Harish's body lay in a pool of blood, was very tense as protesters and relatives of the victim cordoned off the body to stop the police from carrying out a panchanama and shifting it to the mortuary for postmortem. 
 
 When negotiations failed, police personnel tried to forcibly shift the body. At that moment, some protesters sprayed chilli powder on the police personnel and attacked DySP Janardhan. Sensing trouble, police resorted to a mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd, and shifted the body to K R Hospital in Mysuru.
 
 Police officers preferred Mysuru as they were afraid that a large number of JD(S) workers would gather at K R Pete hospital and create a law and order problem. 
 
 The situation in Murukanahalli village is still very tense and police personnel from Mysuru, Hassan and Mandya district are deployed. Mandya additional SP Savita, Mysuru SP Ravichannanavar, Hassan SP Rahulkumar were present and tried to normalize the situation in the village.
 
 Southern IGP B K Singh took stock of the situation. He spoke with Krishnegowda, who was also attacked by Rakshit and Yogesh. 
 
 
