A lot of queries, myths, stigma surround HIV/AIDS. The human immuno-deficiency virus is still considered synonymous with death. There are around 35 million HIV positive people in the world and around 50% of them are unaware that they are positive, according to WHO. In 1986, the first AIDS patient surfaced in India. Padmashree Dr  , a noted general physician and   doctor replies to frequently-asked questions regarding HIV-AIDS. 

 
 
 
 HIV is the name of the causative agent Human Immuno-deficiency Virus. When a person is HIV positive, it means he/she is lodging the virus. AIDS is the disease and manifestation of HIV infection over a period of being infected with the virus.
 
 
 
 
 No, not possible. Normally, there are no visible signs of HIV/AIDS. Some persons develop HIV symptoms shortly after being infected. Moreover, the first indication of HIV, including fever, fatigue and muscle aches, flu like symptoms may only last for a few days or weeks. For others, it can take up to 10 to 12 years for symptoms to appear during which period they look totally fit. But they can infect their sexual partners and others via blood contact. This asymptomatic phase is very dangerous in spreading the infection silently. Hence, it is very tough to know if someone has HIV without being properly tested clinically or conducting relevant blood tests. Still is HIV a death sentence? No, not at all. That fear was in early ’80s. With appropriate medical care and treatment, positive people can have a normal life span of 75 years. Since 1995-96, with the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), a person with HIV can expect to live a normal life span, so long as they take the advised HIV medicines. Now, positive persons can go for marriage as the latest advanced therapy can prevent 98 to 99 percent of HIV transmission from positive husband to negative wife and vice-versa.
 
 
 
 As a result of advanced researches in AIDS treatment, now the patients can be given a substantial life and death can be postponed dramatically. The average life expectancy of AIDS patients on a quality treatment is around 71.5 years. It is also proved that impact of starting Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) late would end up to 15 years reduced life expectancy.
 
 
 HIV is the infection that causes AIDS. But it doesn’t mean that all HIV-positive individuals will essentially develop AIDS. With current available advanced therapies, if a positive person consults HIV experts promptly after HIV diagnosis, HIV infection can be controlled and kept low, maintaining a healthy immune system for a long time and thereby preventing opportunistic infections and ending in the stage of AIDS.
 
 If someone is tested negative for HIV soon after sexual exposure with a positive partner or accidental blood contact of a positive source, can they have unprotected sex? 
 
 No, because it takes about six weeks to three months to test positive for conventional antibody tests usually based on the source of exposure and the level of viral loads. This is called window period during which also potentially they are infectious. RNA PCR /DNA PCR and fourth generation tests can detect the virus earlier even after 72 hours. Therefore, timing is important to detect the virus after exposure and the type of the test asked for.
 
 
 
 Yes, they have to use a condom as there are different HIV strains. Say wife has HIV- 1 and husband has HIV-2 or wife has sub type C and husband has sub type B, by having unprotected sex the possibilities of mixed infections and complications escalate and possibilities of drug resistance enhance.
 
 
 
 
 It’s recommended by WHO to start ART irrespective of CD4 counts once a person is confirmed HIV positive. There’s a great risk of excess mortality due to delay in initiation of ART after HIV diagnosis. However, still there is controversy on when to offer anti-retroviral therapy.
 
 
 
 
 PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is a medication that can prevent HIV infection in advance. Several studies found that it is effective at preventing HIV infections. However, it doesn’t protect against other sexually transmitted diseases or infections and protection is recommended. The pill approved by the US   (FDA) for daily use as PrEP for people at very high risk of getting HIV infection is called Truvada, which is a combination of two HIV medications (tenofovir and emtricitabine). 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, with the advent of HAART (Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy) positive couples who are planning to have a child can have 99.99% negative children provided they are under the guidance of an expert/ART centre. To prevent mother-to-child vertical transmission, appropriately administering ART is universally accepted.
 
 
 Stem cell therapy and gene therapy are now being pursued actively by global scientists towards HIV cure.
 
