KOCHI: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report has found damning violations and negligence on the part of local bodies in the district in implementing projects, using funds and maintaining records. The Kochi corporation, for instance, had to scrap a sewerage project and a water supply scheme losing subsidy deals running into lakhs and wasting funds paid as interest on loans due to delay in implementing the projects. 

 The Thrikkakara municipality constructed four community biogas plants for treatment of the entire garbage generated in the local body. After constructing the plants at a cost Rs 84 lakh and entrusting an agency for maintaining these plants by agreeing to pay around Rs 8 lakh per year, the local body decided to process the municipal solid waste at the Brahmapuram plant. It was decided that Thrikkakara municipality would pay around Rs 22 lakh to the Kochi Corporation, the owner of the Brhampuram plant every year. As a result, the biogas plants constructed by the municipality remain unutilized and are left to rust, the CAG report points out. The Thrikkakara municipality lost around Rs 7 crore government support as the civic body failed to implement the household biogas project properly.
 
 In another case, the Kochi corporation had to scrap the Rs 168 crore sewerage project, which was funded by the   (ADB) due to faulty implementation. The project aimed at laying a network of pipes for collecting waste from each household in  . Had the project been implemented, it would have helped Kochi score better in the Swachch Survekshan scheme. The city ranked fourth during the first appraisal in 2015 and slipped to 271 in 2017.
 
 Similarly, in Tripunithura, unprofessional execution of a project to build waste treatment plants resulted in financial loss for the local body. The municipality started the project to build the plants for households without securing technical sanction from the state government. Hence, it had to spend the amount from its plan fund and lost government subsidy deals running into lakhs. 
 
 The Kochi corporation purchased 17 three-wheelers, 25 four-wheelers and a   for transportation of waste to the treatment plant. But these have been lying idle while the local body hired private trucks spending lakhs every month. The corporation had spent Rs 3 crore on interest on loans due to the delay in implementing the projects. 
 
 The grama panchayats such as Malayattoor- Neeleswaram, Chottanikkara, Kanjoor, Parakkadavu, Njarackal and Ramamangalam delayed in presenting the annual budget. There were irregularities in the annual finance statements given to the auditors by grama panchayats such as Varappetty, Kumbalam, Njarackal, Ramamangalam, Kanjoor, Parakkaradavu and   during 2011-2015. The local bodies like Kothamangalam municipality and Chottanikkara, Kumbalam and Kanjoor grama panchayats did not maintain registers properly, the CAG report said.
 
