DUDDHI, SONBHADRA: Flanked by dense forests of saal, tendu, babool and mahua trees, the road to   is reminiscent more of Jharkhand-Chhattisgarh. And similar to the two majorly tribal states, over 35% of voters in this constituency on the southern edge of east UP are tribal.

 This is a historic election for Duddhi.UP had no tribal seat after its only one Chakrata went to   in 2000.Following Election Commission and court interventions, Duddhi and neighbouring seat Obra are now reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST). Obra used to be general, Duddhi an SC seat. They vote in the last phase on March 8.
 
 The prime mover who led the fight for the ST status is Vijay Singh Gond, a seven-time MLA from Duddhi (1980 to 2006). Gonds, a tribe, were tagged SC in Sonbhadra till 2002 when their status was changed to ST. But Duddhi, their home, remained an SC seat: reason why in the 2007 and 2012 elections Vijay Singh was ineligible to contest. As a Gond, after 2002, he was ST but his constituency remained SC.
 
 Gond took the fight to the EC and the courts. In January 2017, the seats' new status was announced. Now that Duddhi is an ST seat, the 61-year-old former UP minister hopes for a comeback.
 
 Vijay is larger-than-life in the small town. The MBBS drop-out has changed parties like pyjamas: His seven victories have come for different outfits: Congress (2),   (2), SP (2) and Independent (1). He's also been in the BJP . People vote for him, not the party . This time he's contesting on a BSP ticket. His son, Virendra Pratap Singh Gond, contests from Obra.
 
 “Tribal votes will be divided. But I have the advantage of SC votes -about 18-20%,“ he says. The veteran is on the ball. Munni Devi and a group of Dalit women of Rajkhar village say they will vote for “haathi“ whoever the candidate. “Apna biradari ke kehu chhodela ka? (Does anyone leave one's biradari?),“ she asks.
 
 “Violation of forest laws, exploitation of tribals, human trafficking, land grab, these are some of the issue here,“ says Vijay Singh sitting out side his office, Gondwana Bhawan.
 
 Nearly 100 supporters strain to hear his every word. Sonb hadra district, peppered with power plants, also abounds in minerals. Rampant exploi tation of the region's bauxite and limestone has been written about but the trade continues.
 
 Talking to voters, it appears Vijay Singh is the contest's fulcrum -an overwhelming number of voters TOI spoke to were pro-Vijay . “Jisne mehnat ki, majoori usi ko milegi (The one who's worked will get the wages).
 
 “Vijay fought to get this seat ST status so the adivasi samaj will vote for him,“ says bookshop owner Ram LS Gond. Prem Gond, an unlettered marginal farmer in Baraidand village says he's never voted for anyone else and is well aware that Vijay Singh is with the “haathi“ symbol now.
 
 But it's not all easy for Vijay Gond.There's also some resentment that Vijay's son has also got a BSP ticket. “Upper castes could vote against Vijay,“ says local scribe Agrahari. BJP ally Apna Dal's Hari Ram Chero and Congress's Anil Gond are the other options before them.
 
