New Delhi: Paying scant attention to the billboard put up by the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation warning against dengue and chikungunya, Irshad Khan parked his e-rickshaw amid buzzing mosquitos. Many other auto-rickshaw drivers too stopped on the road near Himgiri Enclave, keeping a wary eye out for policemen. They had gathered there on Friday to hear Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at his first campaign stop for the April 23 municipal corporation elections.

 The colony road in Sant Nagar, blocked from both ends, made for a convenient gathering point for the many supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party convenor. They sat there, white AAP caps on their heads, brooms in their hands, while many hung out of the windows of their houses, and others thronged the two giant LED display screens installed on the site.
 
 “I have come from Kamlapur,” said Purnima Yadav, holding aloft her broom. “Kejriwal has reduced our water and electricity bills and he will surely deliver on his assurances in the municipal corporation too.”
 
 Kejriwal’s promise to waive property tax if AAP won did not cut much ice in this Poorvanchali-dominated assembly constituency of Burari with its six municipal wards of Sant Nagar, Kandi Vihar, Kamalpur, Jharoda, Mukundpur and Burari. Most of the voters here live in unauthorised colonies and do not pay house tax. But they hung on to Kejriwal’s assurances on improving the civic amenities.
 
 And indeed, as the orators droned on, the foul smell hanging in the atmosphere made it abundantly clear that the civic body has its work cut out. As mosquitos and flies swarmed, the stink of garbage from an overflowing drain nearby became worse, egging Kejriwal to pledge, to loud cheers, better public hygiene for the voters.
 
 Members of Shyam Sakha Mandal, a religious group, expressed satisfaction at having extended support to AAP in the 2015 assembly polls. “Prior to that, I paid Rs 1,700 every month because the water bill was inflated. That era is over,” exulted mandal member Raju Varshnay. So when Kejriwal’s asked those who were getting free water and truncated electricity bills, Varshnay’s arm promptly shot up, as did hundreds of others.
 
 Sanjay Jha of Kandi Vihar was impressed by Kejriwal’s simplicity: “Those on the dais have no chairs to sit on. Which party has this sort of simplicity?” But grocer Indu Kushwaha sniffed, “AAP wants to win elections in different states rather than serve the people of Delhi.”
 
 Slapping at the mosquitos in irritation, Madhukar Kumar surveyed the derelict conditions, and perhaps blaming AAP’s Burari MLA Sanjeev Jha for them, proclaimed, “AAP has lost much shine since 2015.” Not to be left out, Sansar Pal Singh of West Sant Nagar went around distributing handbills that alleged the AAP MLA had done nothing to ensure regular water supply for the people.
 
