MUMBAI: After ex-Congress Mumbai chief   and former CM  , a section of former ministers from Mumbai are likely to desert the party’s city unit president  , who will release party’s manifesto for the BMC polls on Sunday.

 Nirupam refused to comment on possibility of senior Congress leaders distancing themselves from the party’s campaign for the BMC polls. “I have no information. In fact, we are in the process of drafting the campaign strategy for the BMC polls. We will release our manifesto on Sunday. Along with providing more amenities and better infrastructure, we have proposed to provide free water to people of Mumbai,’’ Nirupam said.
 
 Nirupam said the manifesto will be released in Malad in the presence of former chief minister and state Congress president Ashok Chavan and AICC general secretary Mohan Prakash. “I am sure, all leaders and activists will join the event. Our aim is to dislodge the Shiv Sena-BJP from the BMC,” he added.
 
 Kamat was the first Congress leader to take a firm view against Nirupam and distanced himself from the  . He was followed by Rane, who declared that since Nirupam is a competent leader, he would not campaign in Mumbai. 
 
 Following large-scale disputes within the party, AICC deputed former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda to resolve the issues. Accordingly, he visited Mumbai twice and held talks with warring factions. However, it appears that he was not able to pacify the agitating leaders.
 
 “The Congress is the only party that has fielded candidates in all the 227 wards. Further, recommendations made by each and every senior Congress leader have been accommodated. Under such circumstances, it was unfortunate that still there was no end to groupism,’’ a senior Congress leader said.
 
 Former MP Milind Deora is the only Congress leader who has taken a firm view against defectors and saboteurs. “There should be life time ban on all defectors and saboteurs, who are bent to hamper the prospects of the Congress in the BMC elections,” Deora tweeted.
 
 
