PUNE: Every polling booth will have a display board carrying a summary of the   filed by all   in the fray for the civic elections in the state, including Pune Municipal Corporation.

 Voters will be able to check the candidates’ antecedents before they go to vote. The details on display will include educational background, criminal records and details of assets and liabilities of the candidate.
 
 As per the directions of the   all ten municipal corporations and 25 zilla parishads have been told to ensure that there are display boards outside the polling stations. The same information will be shared on the website of the civic body and published in a newspaper.
 
 Nearly 3,300 polling stations in Pune city will have separate boards displaying affidavits of candidates contesting the elections. The format is yet to be given to the corporations, but the state election commission has told the corporations to ensure that these boards are put up.
 
 The commission has readied a format for the affidavit which will cover educational qualification and criminal records beside the assets and liabilities of the candidates.
 
 State election commissioner J S Saharia told TOI that this would be the first time that the data of candidates will come out in the newspapers as well as be put up on boards at polling stations. “It is the right of the citizens to know about their candidate. The format is being readied and will be sent to the municipal corporations,’’ Saharia said.
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation officials said they will use the format given by state election commission to ready the boards once they have the final list of candidates and their affidavits. 
 
 “We will share the information through a format which would make it easy for a voter to understand,’’ election officials stated.
 
 Candidates are upset about such a display as they find it an invasion of privacy or even forming an opinion. Sitting corporator and former mayor Rajlaxmi Bhosale told TOI that displaying such details outside the polling station may be a risk to the candidate. 
 
 “The voter may also form an opinion by assessing these affidavits without keeping in mind the work of the candidate. It may also be a threat to the candidates,” she said. 
 
 Election officials, when asked about the assessment of the affidavits, said if any other contesting candidate wants to challenge the affidavit, they can do so by going to court. The commission will not make any assessment of the affidavits.
 
 Voters seemed pleased that such a system is being implemented. “It would make the voter more informed about the candidate they are wishing to vote for. Earlier, these affidavits would be put up at the election offices and was not in public domain. Now it is easy for the voter to decide,” Seema Bose, a professor, said. 
 
 Officials from the election department said such a display will be a task since there is a four-panel system and a high number of candidates are expected to contest the civic elections. 
 
