BENGALURU: Over 30,000 cabs of Ola and Uber remained off the roads on Monday. The cabbies protested against differential fares levied by app based aggregator companies. 

 Ramalinga Reddy, transport minister said he will have a roundtable on the issues of cab drivers with the management of the aggregator companies on Tuesday. The drivers' union met him on the sidelines of the Road Safety Week programme on Monday and handed him a petition on their demands.
 
 Ola, Taxiforsure and Uber (OTU)   called off their services on Monday protesting against differential tariff being followed by aggregators and demanded a flat rate which is government approved-Rs19.5/km (for AC vehicles) and Rs14.5/km (for non-AC vehicle). Currently Ola and Uber charge Rs6/7 per km depending on the type of the car. But they also charge a base rate of Rs40 and ride time charges of Rs1/minutes.
 
 Tanveer Pasha, president of OTU union said, "We have unanimously decided to give up on incentives that the companies offer with riders like completing 24 trips per day. And the penalties for arriving late to a customer or getting an average rating is hefty. We don't want incentives and penalties. The legally approved fare for cabs is fixed by RTOs and they should charge the same to the customers. That is very transparent too and there are no hidden costs like ride time charges and surge prices."
 
 He said that about 30,000 cab drivers affiliated to the aggregators are in the union while the total number of drivers plying vehicles using Ola and Uber platforms will be about one lakh in Bengaluru.
 
 He also pointed out that the discounted/flat rates for airport commute is a huge burden on the drivers. "Last month, they offered Rs450 flat rate for airport rides and toll is paid from our pockets. But we take three to four hours to ferry passengers from   or Whitefield to the airport which would cost Rs900 or more. This is unfair as airport taxis (Meru/Mega/KSTDC) still go by the government approved fares and toll is paid by the customers," Pasha added.
 
