AURANGABAD: A city based industrialist was duped of over one crore rupees by nine businessmen hailing from different parts of the neighbouring state of Gujarat. 

 Taking serious cognizance of the alleged cheating, a team of the   has been rushed to Gujarat to zero in on the suspects, who reportedly did not co-operate during the primary investigations of the case.
 
 All the nine businessmen have been slapped with the charges for cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery, for using a forged document as genuine and criminal conspiracy. 
 
 The suspects have also been charged with relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act 1999. The case against the suspects was registered on Sunday night at the   police station.
 
 Kunal Vinaykumar Thirani, who lives near  , is the director of a private company in MIDC Waluj. Thirani in April 2016 was made to deposit an inter-corporate deposit of Rs 1 crore in an Ahmedabad-based trading company with a maturity period of three months.
 
 After completion of the maturity period, the Board of directors convinced Thirani to renew the deposit for another three months, to which he agreed.
 
 After the completion of the second term, Thirani was issued a cheque of Rs 1, 03, 70, 233 but the cheque was rejected citing the issue of a signature mismatch.
 
 On digging out further into the issue, Thirani found that he has been issued a cheque with the initials of a former director of Anil Limited.
 
 When he contacted directors of the Ahmedabad-based company, he received a cold shoulder, and none of them were ready to entertain him. Perturbed by the development, he reached out to the commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar about three months ago, following which the case was handed over to the Economic Offences Wing.
 
 Kumar said, “The offence against the suspect traders has been registered after the EOW carried out a primary probe in to it.”
 
 The officer said, “Primary investigations strongly indicate criminal conspiracy in this case, wherein the local industrialist was made to invest in the trading company and later he was handed over a cheque with forged signatures.”
 
 A senior police officer said that the EOW for the past couple of months tried recording the statements of the suspects named in the complaint, but things took a different turn after they started avoiding the phone calls and communications sent by the EOW.
 
 A team led by an officer of the rank of senior inspector have been sent to Gujarat to round up the suspects. 
 
