BATHINDA: Demanding that those guilty of causing blast in Maur of Bathinda on January 31 be brought to book at the earliest, the residents of Maur organized a protest on Friday. Staging a sit-in outside the office of the Maur sub-divisional magistrate ( ), protesters sought compensation of Rs 1 crore and one job each for the families the six persons who were killed, and Rs 10 lakh each to the 13 others who were injured in blast. The state government has sanctioned Rs 5 lakh compensation to the six families and Rs 50,000 each for injured.

 The town residents also demanded better healthcare facilities at Maur and setting up of fire brigade station. They also want the state government to build a memorial at the blast site. The bereaved families too attended the protest and asked the authorities to solve the case at the earliest so that they may know the perpetrators of the dastardly act.
 
 The protest was carried out by a panel ‘Maur Bomb Blast Virodhi Action Committee’ and presented a charter of demands to Bathinda additional deputy commissioner.
 
 “The town residents are hurt that police have failed to make much headway in the blast case even after 17 days. We want that the perpetrators of the heinous crime should be arrested at the earliest. The injured, who have spent a lot of money from their own pockets on treatment should be provided Rs 10 lakh each,” said action committee member Jiwan Kumar Gupta.
 
 Four children were among those killed in the blast triggered in a stolen car. The bomb went off barely minutes after Congress candidate from Maur assembly constituency Harminder Singh Jassi had ended a small public meeting at the site. A pressure cooker carrying explosives was also placed outside the car but did not explode.
 
 Bathinda ADC Rahul Chaba told TOI, “Town residents raised various concerns, including enhancing compensation and treating families as terror victims. They handed over a charter of demands and I assured them to forward it to the state government at the earliest as any decision regarding it is to be taken by the government only.”
 
 Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said, “Police are thoroughly investigating the case and police teams have been sent to various places to get clues in the case.”
 
 
