DOHA: How little is enough? How much is overstepping? World No. 1   and No. 2   will debate these questions as much in their matches as in media conferences in the new season starting with the Qatar ExxonMobil Open on Monday.

 Throw in the resurgent 14-time Grand Slam champion   - who won an exhibition event on Saturday after coming through a field that included the newly-knighted Briton Murray - into the mix, and you have a compelling storyline for 2017.
 
 Djokovic was on a roller-coaster ride of sorts last season. A chase for that elusive French Open title taking 'a lot out of him.' That resulted in the Serb failing to clinch a title in the last four months of 2016, where he lost in the first round of the Rio Olympics and made the final of the US Open.
 
 Djokovic, who opens his season against the 63rd ranked-Jan-Lennard Struff in the first round on Monday at the Khalifa International Squash and Tennis complex, said he didn't think of last year as 'unsuccessful'. "I don't see it as a crisis," he pointed out. "I see it as a challenge that has helped me rise, get stronger and better. I really want to push more and understand what are my capabilities. I don't believe in limits."
 
 Djokovic, who spent much of the off-season with his young family, said he hasn't changed his schedule too much. "The lifestyle of a tennis player is such that it involves a lot of travelling. So it's great to actually be in one place for certain number of weeks. That allows you to unpack your things and just relax. It allowed me to look back, especially at the last 12-15 months and to also think about the next step."
 
 The Scot said Djokovic, who has won the Autralian Open six times, will be the player to watch out for in Melbourne. "It'll obviously be interesting with Roger (Federer) and Rafa (coming back). Roger has never really had any major injuries throughout his career, so this would be a new thing for him, coming back from this injury. If he stays fit and healthy, a couple of months into the year, he'll be back to playing some great tennis again.
 
 "Rafa last year was a bit unlucky," Murray said. "He was starting to play really well again during the clay-court season before he got his wrist injury. It'll be interesting to see how he comes back. The younger guys are talented. A lot of them are big guys as well; very powerful games. They're dangerous. They will be improving."
 
 Going into the first tournament of the year, Murray said he liked where his game was. "I'm hitting the ball pretty clean. I think I could still move a little bit better."
 
