NEW DELHI: The   community remains sceptical about the reported draft chargesheet in the case connected with the Afzal Guru event on February 9, 2016. From  , then the president of JNU Students’ Union, to university student  , accused of anti-India acts at the time, people on the campus are unwilling to confirm TOI’s report that Delhi Police had failed to prove the   charges against Kumar while indicting Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya.

 Speaking to TOI, Kumar insisted there should be no extra-judicial trial by the media as earlier. “Police should produce in court whatever evidence they possess so that the truth comes out,” he said. “As for my name being removed from the sedition investigation, I have only heard it from the media. Police have not intimated this to me.”
 
 Kumar added that the union government, which had created a big controversy over the event, should now show how serious it was about the issue.
 
 Khalid said that until the police filed the chargesheet, he would find it difficult to make a comment. 
 
 “The media leak about the chargesheet is similar to how in February last year certain sections of the media made up a story of me having gone to Pakistan — it later fell like a pack of cards,” he said. “I only know that no charge sheet has been filed and that there should be no trial by the media.”
 
 There are many others who detect an ulterior motive in the emergence of such information. Among them is Shehla Rashid Shora, former JNUSU vice-president. 
 
 She alleged, “Police plant such stories strategically to divert attention from their own ineffectiveness.” She cited the example of missing JNU student Najeeb Ahmed’s case, and said just ahead of a court hearing, there were new speculation in the media.
 
 Many teachers felt that police should have first proved sedition beyond doubt before arresting the students. Ajay Patnaik, former president of the JNU Teachers’ Association, said the cops had botched up the case right from the start. “Their action betrayed a mindset that anyone following a leftist ideology is to be terrorised. That is why the protest became so big.” Patnaik added that misinformation and doctored videos had caused mistrust even as he had always argued that Kumar was a member of AISF, which has always believed that Kashmir is an integral part of India.
 
