PUNE:   and her husband Mohit had polling stations at different centres in all the previous elections. 

 Going by the draft roll put up by the   election officials, it appears the same will continue this time too. Despite bringing this to the attention of the authorities, and making requests to be assigned the same polling booth, officials are yet to make amendments. 
 
 “We have sent our request to the election officials. Hopefully, they will correct it,” said Karve.
 
 The problem is not unique to the Karves. 
 
 Vijay Sagar, a  , said he and wife Shibani voted at one polling booth, while his daughter Kshitija always voted at some other centre.
 
 “With so much time between elections, and all corrections being carried out in the preceding two years, there was enough time for preparing a list ensuring family members go to the same polling station,” Sagar said. 
 
 These are but some of the complaints being raised ahead of the finalisation of the   of voters, before January 21. 
 
 Shekar Rao, who has yet to check his name in the panel list, said he his and wife voted for two different wards in the last elections. Hopefully, the four-panel system would ensure they were in the same panel, he said.
 
 There has been a steady stream of citizens, who have checked their names against the list and now wish to make corrections.
 
 The election officials did admit discrepancies, and said they were taking efforts to ensure families go to the same polling booth. But they added the disclaimer that one polling booth could accommodate only 800 voters. 
 
 “We have already put out the draft roll with names in the list and divided it panel-wise, referring to the surnames and addresses. We have, as far as possible, have kept such names in the same list and the same panel,” said an official. 
 
 Since the panels cover a larger area this time, officials stressed, citizens would mostly come under the same area. But citizens of some societies which fall on the panel borders might see themselves split across panels. “We are trying to shift them into one panel, depending on the number of voters,” another official said.
 
 Candidates, too, have been receiving complaints from voters regarding this issue. Sitting corporator Ulhas Bagul said there was a lot of confusion over boundaries in the newly-carved out wards. 
 
 “A lot of voters are approaching me to know about delimitation and voters’ list. The civic administration must take efforts to clear this confusion,” he said. 
 
 “The election machinery should take the responsibility for making the changes,” he added.
 
 Former corporator Narayan Lonkar agreed. “We are helping them reach out to the election officials. They have time till January 21,” he said.
 
