PUNE: The Bombay high court has directed the higher education authorities here to act "in accordance with the law" in an alleged illegal reinstatement of four non-teaching staffers of an aided night college after they were dismissed from service in 2005. 

 Pune Camp resident and social worker Rashad M Shaikh had filed a PIL seeking removal of these employees and recovery of dues, if any, paid to them from the state grants since their reinstatement in 2006. 
 
 The bench of Chief Justice   and Justice M S Sonak recently directed the state authorities to complete the exercise within six months and convey their final decision to the petitioner. The court directed that the petition be treated as a representation for taking suitable action.
 
 "In the matter of such nature, we were disinclined to entertain any PIL. However, since the issue of disbursement of state aid was involved, an affidavit in reply from the state authorities was called for," the bench said.
 
 The institution, St Vincent (Night) College of Commerce, is run by the Poona Jesuit Schools' Society (PJSS) and is affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University. The PJSS had dismissed a total of six non-teaching staffers in December 2005, following an enquiry over desertion from duties for a long period.
 
 Shaikh told TOI, "In May 2006, a review by these staffers was also dismissed and one of them left the organization, accepting the decision. The remaining five were reinstated, in violation of the service rules, later the same year, one of them retired from service. The remaining four continue to be in service and two of them have even been granted promotion."
 
 Acting on the court's directive, joint director of higher education Vijay P Narkhede had filed an affidavit stating that the PJSS had first terminated the staffers without obtaining permission from the state and later reviewed its own order and reinstated them again without obtaining the state's permission. He stated that the authorities have since informed the institution management to recover any excess payment, if made, to these staffers.
 
 The high court observed that Narkhede's affidavit has redressed, to a substantial extent, the grievance raised by the petitioner vis-a-vis recovery of excess dues. However, the state authorities need to act in accordance with the law on the issue of reinstatement, the bench said.
 
