Bengaluru: In a bid to expand its presence in the aerospace sector, the home-grown   will be setting up a dedicated manufacturing unit at Bommasandra in southeast Bengaluru, to meet its global requirements.

 A familiar name in the automotive and industrial sectors, Maini Precision Products Limited (MPP) forayed into aerospace in 2005. The group’s new plant will come under the purview of MPP.
 
 The group is eyeing fresh deals in defence manufacturing at  . However, the firm is yet to make an official announcement regarding its new plant, emphasising that its focus remained firmly on investments, generating employment opportunities, technology adaption and ecosystem, which will eventually cater to the needs of its customers.
 
 In 2005, MPP Aerospace Division started exporting machined high-precision fuel line components to Safran   Engines (the erstwhile Snecma), France, for the latter’s commercial aircraft engines. With a decade-long build-to-print learning experience with major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), the firm recently received a private equity investment worth USD 17 million to support its growth plan. 
 
 Managing director of MPP Gautam Maini told TOI, “With more than 40 years of experience in high-precision manufacturing, we have created a credible datum using our current facilities. Now, we are planning to leverage our strengths to create a dedicated  . Based on the strong relationship we have built with our customers over the years, we are seeing strong indications of promising opportunities in the future. We will be investing in higher-end technologies through three verticals – Aero engines, aerostructures and aircraft systems at the new plant. This will help us grow exponentially.”
 
 The total area under construction at the proposed new plant will be 60,000sqft, with dedicated sections for the aforementioned three core verticals of MPP.
 
 The group has been managing and nurturing more than 400 suppliers across sectors, in addition to supporting micro and small sub-tiers as collaborators. This initiative, the group believes, will boost the Make-in-India project.
 
 CEO of MPP Naresh Palta said that the new plant would increase employment opportunities in the industrial belt for technicians and engineers. “MPP Aerospace will increase the size of its workforce to drive up production in multiple programmes to keep pace with our expected growth. The core strength of Maini Group has always been training and skill development of its employees,” he added.
 
 
