PUNE: A middle-aged single mother from Chennai has alleged “inappropriate behaviour” and “non-cooperation” on the part of a private airline and the security personnel at the Pune airport.

 Rajini   was travelling to Chennai from Pune on Sunday with her autistic son when the incident allegedly occurred. 
 
 “While booking the ticket online, I had called the airline help desk and informed them that I will be travelling with an autistic child and need assistance. The representative I spoke to asked me to reach out to the person at the airport counter,” she said. 
 
 “On Sunday, I reached the airport around 2pm and went to the airline counter to collect boarding passes for me and my son. I informed the person at the counter that my son will not be able to stand in the queue for a long time and requested assistance. But I was offered a wheel chair instead. I had to explain that my son was a non-verbal autistic child and all that I needed was an early clearance of security check without being made to stand in a queue,” Ramya said.
 
 According to her, the airline staff told her there was no queue and that she could go ahead. She added that no one from the airline accompanied her. “I walked to the security check area and requested the officer to have us checked at the same time so my son is not left alone but he refused. However, a male friend who was travelling with me volunteered to take my son through the security check meant for male fliers. My son, who is not used to a stranger’s touch, panicked and ran and my friend also ran behind him. The security officer came running towards my son and asked us why we were traveling with an unfit child? By then I had finished my security check. I took my son to the checking area again and then boarded the flight without saying anything,” she said.
 
 In the evening she emailed her complaint to the Pune airport director. “If they need any proof, they can look at the   footage. I have travelled many times before with my son and this has never happened. The airline could have easily helped me out. The security personnel should be asked to behave sensitively,” Ramya, who works in an IT firm in Chennai, said.
 
 When the airline —   — was contacted, a spokesperson said, “As part of our guest-first approach, Jet Airways’ staff members (both in-flight and on-ground) are regularly trained to ensure strict adherence to all procedures, processes and national standards, set out by the DGCA regulator. Two guests (a mother with her son) were booked to travel on our Pune-Chennai flight (9W 2492) on Sunday, April 9. At the departure lounge, the mother informed our staff members of her son’s hearing disability and that he needed to be away from the crowd. No other assistance was requested. Accordingly, the airline staff members had the son seated separately in the departure hall, while the check-in process was being completed. The guests were assisted through security clearance with speed.”
 
