It appears that the state government is serious about addressing issues associated with drinking water supply. Finance minister   has earmarked Rs 1,058 crore for drinking water schemes in the state. Out of this, Rs 361 crore is for Jalanidhi and Rs 290 crore for the rural drinking water projects. This is inclusive of the allocation for rural infrastructure development fund (RIDF).

 He also announced the decision to deposit Rs 10 crore to plant trees across the state.
 
 
 
 
 With pipe bursts getting frequently reported from across the state, Isaac has allocated Rs 140 crore for replacing pipes and other fixtures of existing schemes. He has also provided Rs 70 crore for JICA aided drinking water project.
 
 Considering the drought situation in the state the finance minister has allocated Rs 30 crore exclusively for disaster management activities. In addition to this, an amount of Rs. 18 crore has been set apart for rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharging.
 
 Highlighting the need to rejuvenate ponds, rivulets, springs, streams, canals and lakes, Isaac said such activities would be undertaken under ' ' and implemented with the help of employment guarantee scheme. The budget proposes use of geo-textiles to protect slopes of ponds and streams. He also emphasised the need to encourage people to use pits for rainwater harvesting and recharging of wells.
 
 Isaac allocated Rs 102 crore for soilwater conservation activities and Rs 208 crore for minor irrigation. A financial assistance of Rs 500 would be given to those who plant trees in private properties. The amount has to be repaid with interest at the time of felling of trees after 30-40 years. The minister earmarked Rs 413 crore for major and medium irrigation projects. In addition to this Rs 29 crore has been provided for project in Kabani basin, Rs 5 crore for Bhavani basin and Rs 53 crore for Pambar river basin.
 
 For controlling brackish water and for reducing the intensity of drought in summer season, an amount of Rs 600 crore will be invested from KIIFB for the construction of 30 regulators in suitable places along 20 rivers.
 
 In the last budget Rs 2,064 crore was earmarked from KIIFB for rejuvenation of various   schemes.The minister said decision regarding the extension of these schemes would be taken after assessing the progress of its implementation. However, he said, KIIFB would invest Rs 1,696 crore in 41 schemes.
 
