CHANDIGARH: “It will be the first time in the history of Army that a captain will defeat a general,”   president Capt Amarinder Singh said here on Friday while reacting to reports that SAD was planning to field former Army   against him from Patiala (Urban). 

 On AAP leader and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann’s claim to the chief ministerial post, Amarinder wished him luck, saying if that happened the state would have a “joyful and comedian government”.
 
 Amarinder was speaking on the sidelines of former Akali minister late Ranjit Singh Balian’s family members and others, including a number of AAP workers, joining Congress. On the occasion, he once again challenged AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal to fight him in the  , reiterating that he would defeat him from any constituency in the state.
 
 Dismissing apprehensions a delay in allotment of tickets could impact the party’s campaign in Punjab, he said: “I remember when I fought the   election in 1980. I had got only 13 days to campaign. There is enough time to canvass for the   for February 4, even though unfortunately the tickets could not be announced six months before the elections, as decided at the c.” 
 
 Responding to a question on dissidence in Punjab Congress, Amarinder replied that tickets could not possibly be given to all deserving candidates but the party was working hard to bring dissidents around. He assured that all those candidates who are left out and support the party nominee would be suitably accommodated in his government, after it comes to power in the state.
 
 “There are 24 former Akali leaders who have joined Congress and all of them cannot be given tickets. They will be considered in constituencies only where there are no winnable Congress leaders,” he said. Senior party leaders, like sitting Banga MLA, should understand party’s policy and not rebel, he added. Soondh has been denied ticket by the party.
 
 On reports of posters being put up against Inderbir Singh Bolaria and others in Delhi, Amarinder said it was obviously the act of detractors.
 
 Amarinder reiterated that there had been no discussion with him on the possibility of making Navjot Singh Sidhu the deputy chief minister once Congress comes to power in the state. Sidhu would also be part of the AICC list of star campaigners for the party, he added. 
 
 The party is likely to announce its final list of candidates on January 9 or 10.
 
