 from Hyderabad was announced the winner of  's show 
  amidst much fanfare last night (April 2). An established name in Telegu and Kannada industry, Revanth in an exclusive interview with the Times of India.com revealed that he faced a lot of humiliation for not knowing Hindi and wanting to become a playback singer in Bollywood.

 "Whenever I went for auditions, I was often insulted for not knowing Hindi and wanting to become a playback singer. People made fun of me, but when I hold the mic I forget everything and that has helped me in moving forward in life. I am happy that I have managed to win one of the biggest shows of our country, Indian Idol," said Revanth.
 
 The 
  singer is on cloud nine after the victory and wants to donate 10 per cent of the winning amount to an orphanage. "I can't express how happy I am today. I would like to thank people of India for voting me and making me a winner. I have decided to donate 10 percent of the winning amount to an orphanage," shared the singer after winning the show.
 
 Revanth dedicated his win to his mother and family, he said, "I cannot ask for anything better than this. Winning the title of Indian Idol is the best thing that happened to me. The journey right from day 1 on sets till today has been filled with joy, anxiety, fun, nervousness, friendship and much more. I am thankful to the judges for guiding me throughout the season so that I could perform better each time. I would want to thank Sony Entertainment Television for giving me the platform, where the nation could see and hear my talent. Earlier, I was only known in south, but now because of Indian Idol the entire nation knows me."
 
  
  
 He added, "I would like to dedicate the award to my mother and family as they motivated me to participate in the reality show. When my family saw Karunya on the show, they told me even I should go. However, I was apprehensive because of my Hindi, but they pushed me and made me believe that I could do it."
 
 Revanth now eyes Bollywood and would like to sing for his favourite actor Akshay Kumar, "I would like to sing for everyone, but Akshay Kumar is my most favourite and I would love to playback for him someday," said Revanth.
 
 Apart from winning the show, the most precious moment that Revanth will cherish throughout his life is of receiving the trophy from legendary cricketer  , "I will always cherish the moment of receiving the trophy from Sachin sir. It is a big moment of my life."
 
 The South Indian singer feels surviving in Bollywood industry is tough. However, he will work hard and make the most of his Indian Idol win. 
 
 Talking about his struggles he said, "I wanted to make a career in Bollywood and that is why pursued the dream by taking up job at PCO booths and catering companies. All this helped me fund my education in music." 
 
 
  to read LV Revanth's interview in Telugu
 
 
  
  
 
