After 15 weeks of non-stop entertainment and dance,   will finally come to an end. The show that witnessed best of dance champions from all around the world got its winner in  . The young lad from Silchar, Assam will be declared winner on the show which airs its finale tonight. 

 The finale has been already shot. He walked away with a trophy and Rs 25 lakhs cash. Bir Radha Sherpa is from  's team. This is the first time that the mentor has taken the title home. 
 
 The last two seasons of the show has been won by mentor  's team. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The finale night which has been divided into two episodes has been high on entertainment. Judwaa 2 stars Varun Dhwan,   and   added star quotient to the show. They not only performed on the show, but also showed audiences their fun side. To add more fun to the finale night ace comedian and actor   has been roped in. The actor left audiences in splits of laughter with his antics. 
 
 He came dressed as Remo's house servant Ramu and tickled audiences funny bones with his jokes. Dance Plus season 3 finale will also see judge Prabhu Deva dancing to his iconic songs. 
 
 Not only this mentors Dharmesh, Shakti Mohan, Punit Pathak along with Super Judge Remo D'souza also performed on the show. 
 
 "It was a delight to be a part of this show. Remo Sir and Star Plus did not just give me a platform they gave me the opportunity to go out in the real world and live the life I did not even know. Winning this show was a very big surprise. I did not know so many people out there have been supporting me. Most importantly, Punit Sir has supported me throughout and I dedicate my win to him. In addition, Shakti Ma’am & Dharmesh Sir gave me constant motivation. Entire team behind dance Plus has given me their unreserved support through their comments that only inspired me to work harder and win the love of so many fans. I dedicate my win to my Mom, Punit Sir & Dance plus family. Without them, his would not have been possible.” Bir Radha Sherpa said.
 
 
