KOLHAPUR: The day-long   of the transport unions coupled with the   disrupted traffic through the city and along the major highways passing through Kolhapur. 

 Auto and taxi unions had called a bandh to   against recent fee hike, which left many commuters, tourists and school children stranded on Tuesday. More than 7,000 auto rickshaws remained off the road after over ten auto and taxi unions participated in the strike. 
 
 The already strained Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) was overburdened with the additional passengers queuing up for bus rides. Huge crowd was seen at the Dabholkar corner, Central Bus stand, Shahu Maidan, Shivaji Chawk, Bindu chawk, and town hall bus stands.
 
 Amol More, who came to the city from Satara, for a visit to the Mahalaxmi temple was caught unawares. “I had no idea of the strike. I waited for more than an hour for buses, but many were filled beyond capacity. The autos were also not to be seen around. The strike caused much inconvenience to me,” he said.
 
 Javed Nachare, a resident of Sindhdurg district, missed his bus to Vaibhavwadi on Tuesday morning due to the strike. “There is a stop near Rankala Lake, from where we had to board a bus to reach the state transport bus. We waited for quite a some time but could not find any transport. We would have reached in time had there been an auto available for the ride,” he said.
 
 The auto strike also compelled parents to drop their children in schools, while some preferred to let their wards miss school owing to chakka jam   by Maratha organisations and auto strike.
 
 One parent, who did not want to be named, said the agitations of the Maratha community and auto union strike had created uncertain environment in city. So, it was better option to keep children at home rather than send them to school.
 
 Chandrakant Bhosale, district president of the Maharashtra Wahatuk Sena, claimed that 7,000 autos and 1,700 taxis stayed off the roads. “We have submitted the petition of demands to MPs Dhananjay Mahadik and Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who promised to raise voice against the hike. If nothing comes out in the Budget session, we would increase intensity of the agitation,” he said. 
 
 The organisations agitating for reservation for Maratha community stalled   for more than half an hour at various places. Traffic on various roads in Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts was also stalled for around one hour. The road blockage, ranging from 20 minutes to one hour, at the prime locations during the peak hours resulted in traffic snarls. 
 
 Vasantrao Mulik, convenor of the agitation in Kolhapur district who conducted the chakka jam at Gokul Shirgaon for over 30 minutes, said 1,000 people from 12 neighbouring villages participated in the protest. Women and youths were present predominantly in the protest at the highway. All were shouting slogans demanding reservation for the Maratha community.
 
 “This is just the beginning of the agitation. If the state government does not take any decision regarding our demand, we will intensify our agitation in the future. We have already shown our strength in the state by organising silent rallies at various district headquarters,” he said.
 
 The villagers from Uchgaon, barely 3 km from Gokul Shirgaon, had stalled the highway for more than 20 minutes. The highway was blocked near Kini toll plaza, Wathar, Karad and also at Satara on the way towards Pune.
 
 Roads used to enter the city were also blocked by the agitators. At Shiroli toll plaza, around 100 agitators had stalled the road for more than half an hour. Similar agitations were reported at Kasaba Bawada, Dasara chowk and other parts of the city. At every spot, the agitation was concluded by singing national anthem, said Mulik.
 
 
