BHOPAL: After a week’s delay, MP government’s ambitious plan, “Deendayal Thali”, to dish out   for poor at   at select outlets will finally be launched in Bhopal and Gwalior simultaneously on Friday.

 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will launch the initiative in Gawlior while Bhopal Mayor Alok Sharma will do it in Bhopal. The scheme, being monitored by the local administration department, will offer a wholesome meal to people at a highly subsidised rate, which is being supplied with the help of NGOs. BJP is observing 2017 as ‘Garib Kalyan Varsh’ to mark the birth centenary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. The CM had announced the subsidised food scheme, on the lines of Amma Kitchen in Tamil Nadu, in four cities of MP
 
 Named ‘Deendayal Rasoi Yojana’, the scheme was to be lauched on April 1, but delay in the selection of agencies for extended it, said sources. “We are going to launch the scheme from April 7 and will have all basic variety of food in ‘thali’. Preparations were underway as we have chosen Ren Basera near Shahjahani Park as the first outlet ,” Mayor Alok Sharma said. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation in association with the district administration has also formed a corpus fund to provide subsidised foodgrain to the companies willing to supply the thali. Initially, tenders were floated and 12 companies and NGOs opted for the supply. Ghanshyam Sewa Samiti was selected for the first outlet in Bhopal.
 
 “The agency selected to supply subsidised meal has been doing the job in Rewa, Satna and other places. The actual cost of the meal would be somewhere around Rs 15,” said BMC commissioner Chhavi Bharadwaj.
 
 In all such outlets, the local administration is garnering support from voluntary organisations, NGOs and some companies under their CSR activity. The agency will decide the menu of ‘Deendayal Thali’ where one can have four chapattis, dal, vegetable curry, ‘pulav’ (fried rice) and pickle, while a plate with additions like sweets will come for Rs 10, which is under consideration.
 
 Under the budget provisions, the finance department has declared Rs 10 crore for the project for FY-2017-18. The remaining fund required for the scheme will be arranged through donations said officials.
 
