NAGPUR: The Board of College and University Development (BCUD) intends to award   to at least five colleges affiliated to   (NU) by next academic session. However, the colleges the BCUD deems fit for grant of autonomy have welcomed the move with a pinch of salt.

 On Monday, BCUD director   told TOI that he would be holding a meeting of select colleges affiliated to NU from city and other districts to encourage them to apply for autonomy.
 
 “By next session, I want that at least five colleges are autonomous. The decision is in accordance with the state government’s directives to prompt stakeholders in higher education. College principals and managements would be invited for the meeting,” Agrawal said.
 
 He added that the government has asked to make the process easy and extend cooperation to those interested. “At times, application for autonomy remains pending for long. We are planning to do it through minimum processing,” he said.
 
 Agrawal said the major advantage for big institutions is that they would get a free hand in managing their affairs and bring reforms.
 
 When asked about the colleges he feels can become autonomous, Agrawal said Hislop, Dharampeth Science, Ambedkar and LAD appear to be meeting the standards. Gondia’s   and SS Girls College and Bhandara’s JN Patel may also seek autonomy, he suggested.
 
 Agrawal said academic and administrative audit procedure has also been started at some of the institutes. “After the audit, they will be ranked. On the basis of ranking, they will know what remains to be done,” he added.
 
 Some college principals said there are two types of autonomy: financial and administrative. They feel financial autonomy is not feasible for colleges which are not located in metro places. 
 
 A principal said, “The income should be matching the expenditure. Colleges are concerned about how to meet expenses. That is why they are not showing interest.”
 
 Another principal said colleges can conduct exams, evaluate papers and other documentation work better than the Nagpur University. “But financially, colleges should be allowed to depend on the university,” the principal added.
 
