For residents of rain-parched Chennai, where   water pipes are running dry even before summer has set in, drilling deep is a convenient way to find water. But for every extra foot that is dug to pump out water, the groundwater level drops exponentially. The Chennai Aquifer System, the crucial source of groundwater for about 1 crore people, is critical.

 A study by the   ( ) under the aegis of the Union water resources ministry has found that Chennai's groundwater resources are over exploited, with water below the surface being extracted at a rate of 185%.
 
 Spread across 6,288 sqkm, the system covers Chennai and Tiruvallur districts, besides parts of   and Vellore. More than 40% of the system is either over exploited or critical.
 
 While areas recording groundwater extraction exceeding 100% are accounted as overexploited, pumping out water between 90% and 100% are critical. This means if 100 litres percolates into the ground, 90-100 litres are pumped out. litres are pumped out.
 
 “The groundwater table in Chennai is depleting between 10cm and 20cm per year,“ A Subburaj, superintending hydrogeologist, CGWB, southeastern coastal region told TOI.
 
 Aquifers in 109 `firkas' -each `firka' constitutes several villages -situated in the four districts were mapped using 274 borewells and vertical electrical sounding method in 124 places. Of these, 38 `firkas' are overexploited or critical and are located within the city and fringes. Water extraction is higher in the core city than in suburban areas.
 
 “If 100 litres of water percolate, 185 litres (including existing water reserves) are pumped out in Chennai,“ said Subburaj.
 
 The study based on the groundwater situation in 2013 has found that groundwater in the industrial belts of Ambattur, Chromepet and Manali, besides dumpyards in   and Kodungaiyur, have been contaminated with heavy metals.
 
 Asked if the 2015 floods raised the groundwater table, Subburaj said indiscriminate extraction of water in the later months has left the situation grim. “In 2016, Chennai and its neighbourhood had deficit rain. The number of over exploited and critical areas will go up if urgent measures for water recharging are not taken,“ Subburaj said.
 
 CGWB has made several recommendations on water recharging measures to reduce the depletion of groundwater. It includes desilting tanks along with construction of recharge shaft or recharge bore wells, rainwater harvesting through wells, encouraging farmers to sow less water-intensive crops.
 
