CHANDIGARH: In a major reprieve for an NRI woman who waited for six years to get a flat in Mohali, the   has directed a private realtor to pay more than Rs 14 lakh as penalty (Rs 1,000 per day since August 2014 till June 2017) and Rs 1 lakh as compensation and litigation charges for failing to give possession of the flat on time.

 The forum has also told   to hand over the possession of the flat to complainant   from Sector 70, Mohali.
 
 In her complaint, Wadhwa said willing to own a residential property in India, they purchased a flat in a project `Fashion Technology Park' in Sector 90, Mohali being developed by Chandigarh Overseas Private Limited. The total cost of the said unit was fixed at Rs 26.40 lakh.
 
 She paid an amount of Rs 25.90 lakh on July 10, 2009 after which a provisional allotment letter was issued in their favour and buyer's developer agreement was also signed.
 
 Wadhwa said as per clause 14 of that agreement, it was agreed that possession of the unit would be delivered by January 15, 2011, failing which a provision was made to compensate the complainants by making a payment of Rs 1000 per day for the period of delay .
 
 However, despite receiving more than 98% of the sale consideration of the said unit, the builder failed to deliver possession of flat by the stipulated date. On repeated requests made by the complainant, the builder vide email dated November 27, 2012 intimated that possession of the unit will be delivered on or before December 31, 2013, but it failed to do so even by that date.
 
 In their reply, the builder said the possession of the unit could not be delivered on account of force majeure circumstances. There were cer tain obstacles, which were raised by  , with regard to approved plan.They had to contest the same and deposited an additional amount under protest, despite having legal standing, which resulted into delay in construction. However, the documents related to the said issue have been misplaced due to shifting of records, they said.
 
 It was further told that the dispute occurred between the builder and the contractor and the contract was terminated and the same was given to another contractor. However, a dispute again arose and the matter reached the civil court.
 
 Realtors shared that the construction at the project was stayed on April 26, 2011, which was vacated only on August 23, 2014. Because of that reason, it could not raise any construction of units flats to complete the project. It was further stated that there was also a global recession, as a result of which the project could not be completed.
 
 
 
 
 The   observed that the matter went to the civil court which granted an interim stay on construction.During this period, it was beyond the control of the realtors to raise any building. In view of above, for the period of stay , the complainants are not entitled to get any compensation, the commission said.
 
 The commission said that the complainant was thus entitled to get a compensation of Rs 1,000 per day for the period falling between January 15, 2011to April 25, 2011and thereafter from August 24, 2014 till such time when possession is actually delivered to them of the constructed unit.
 
