TIRUMALAYAPALEM: Telangana chief minister   vowed to complete all irrigation projects at the earliest to provide water to one crore acres as promised by his government. The   (BRLIS) was completed in record time to irrigate 60,000 acres in Paleru constituency of Khammam district, he said and announced that work to extend the scheme to other villages and hamlets will begin from Wednesday. He went on to promise that the   will be completed in the next one and half years. 

 Addressing a public meeting at Tirumalayapalem on Tuesday after inaugurating Bhakta Ramadasu Lift Irrigation Scheme (BRLIS) at Erragadda thanda, the chief minister said it was significant that the project was being inaugurated on the birth anniversary of Bhakta Ramadasu. 
 
 He said the state Congress was creating hurdles to irrigation projects under the guise of fighting for displaced persons. Declaring that such attempts will not stop him from completing the projects, he, however, appealed to Congress leaders not to create obstacles to projects designed to turn the state green.
 
 Taking potshots at former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, who criticized the TRS government and alleged that people did not benefit even after granting statehood for Telangana, KCR listed out welfare schemes being implemented in the state. "Chidambaram" he said, "was merely reading a script prepared by some state Congress leaders without any understanding of the work being done by the state government."
 
 He announced that the government will introduce schemes to economically uplift rural folk by allocating funds in the next budget. Similarly schemes will be announced for fishermen, weavers and other communities, he said.
 
 Roads and buildings minister   said BRLIS was completed in record time of 10 months with the efforts of irrigation minister T Harish Rao and officials and said "this sets an example for completing other projects on Krishna river such as   and Dindi projects. Harish Rao said TRS government will complete all pending and unfinished projects started by previous Congress governments that "confined themselves to only making money in the name of Jala Yagnam." 
 
