JODHPUR: Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on Tuesday presented its budget for 2017-18 with income projections worth Rs 67949.27 lakh against the expenditure worth Rs 67103.79 lakh. The mayor   presented budget amid boycott by the opposition who termed the budget meeting unconstitutional. 

 But ignoring the chaos, Ojha kept reading out the proposals of budget and approved it by voice vote in just a matter of half an hour.
 
 An expenditure of Rs 10500 lakh has been provisioned for diverse works in the city under AMRIT scheme. Of this allocation, Rs 3,000 lakh will be spent by the JMC while the remaining Rs 7,500 lakh will be contributed by the Central and state governments.
 
 Most of this will go into development of the sewerage network, rain-water drainage, drinking water supply and  , which was earlier proposed to be developed from the fund collected as donation.
 
 Besides this, under Swachh Bharat Mission Rs 10 crores have been provisioned for solid waste management besides many other works.
 
 Having consistently failed to meet its revenue targets, specially the recovery of the  , mayor has this time proposed to recover Rs 30 crore under UD tax. According to sources, this is an awfully meagre projection against the total outstanding under this head.
 
 This was the first budget in three years of BJP board which was presented in absence of the commissioner and the leader of opposition in the budget meeting.
 
 While the post of commissioner has been lying vacant since the transfer of Arun Kumar Hasija with the incumbent officer yet to assume the charge, the leader of opposition and congress leader   has been absconding after the ACB filed case against him for alleged irregularities in the JDA during his stint as the JDA chairman.
 
 The opposition had already announced that they would protest this budget meeting as the budget proposals were not placed before the finance committee, terming it unconstitutional.
 
 With the beginning of the meeting, the councillors of Congress assembled in the well and tore off the copies of budget proposals. Even though, mayor continued reading the budget proposals, on which, the opposition councillors snatched mike from him.
 
 
