Fifty-four-year-old Gunaseelan, the driver of the   bus that slipped into the   road sink on Sunday afternoon, is the real hero of the city this week! The driver of the almost full bus that traverses the 25G route, he saved the lives of the 35 passengers on board by acting swiftly during that time.Needless to say , it was stressful, not to mention shocking to see the vehicle you're steering suddenly sink into the earth, and so,   went on leave to “rest“. He is joining work today . “I am still not out of it. I have been having sleepless nights all these days. The one question that haunts me is, `What if this had happened when the bus was in motion?' None of us in the bus would be alive now. Thank God that this terrible incident took place when the bus was standing at the bus stop. Had it been otherwise, I wouldn't be alive now to talk to you,“ says Gunaseelan, who has been driving on the 25G route for almost 10 years in his 27-year-old driving career. So, is he going to drive on the same route, now? “Yes,“ says the confident man, adding, “It took a few days for me to steel myself and regain the confidence to get back behind the wheel.“
 
  
 Narrating what exactly happened on Sunday , he says, “It was a usual working day for me from the morning. After completing several rides that day , I began my final ride of the day at 1.35pm from  . It was 2pm when I reached the   bus stand.When I stopped the bus there, the passengers got in and the conductor blew the whistle to start. When I was about to start the bus, I noticed that the bus was slowly tilting towards the ground on the front. Initially, I thought that the tyre was punctured. But within seconds, I realized that the front tyres were sinking into the road. This was something that I had never seen in my driving career.Not even in my wildest dreams have I ever imagined something like this would happen -let alone happen to me, while I was driving. I was panicked, but didn't show it as I didn't want to scare the passengers. I took a few seconds and then decided to not to tell the passengers as they would all then panic and crowd the exits, and none of us would then be able to get out of the bus. I informed the passengers that the tyre was punctured and asked them to get out of the bus immediately .After evacuating the entire bus -it took a few minutes, the conductor and I got out.I ensured that I was the last person to get out of the bus.When we all came out and saw the bus, the front portion had completely sunk into the road. I was not able to contain my shock. I just sat there at the bus stop for few minutes and I didn't know what happened around me during those minutes. A few passengers came and spoke with me, I couldn't hear what they were talking, though my eyes were wide open, I went blank for a few minutes and then got back on track. The first thing I did was to call my son, who rushed to the site. My wife fainted upon hearing this news, I am told.“
 
 Ask him if the public gave him a helping hand, and he says, “They were also equally shocked. After when we all came out of the bus, they were busy taking videos and pictures and were posting on social media.“
 
 Gunaseelan has been getting congratulatory messages from his MD, friends and neighbours. But unperturbed, he gets a little philosophical and says, “We should be thankful to be alive every moment of our life -and not complain about petty things. This is the lesson I learnt from this incident I am a content man, now.“ 
 
 
