HYDERABAD: Over the past few months, at least 25   have tested positive for   with authorities raising concern over injectable drug use in the city. 

 These are among the 12,058 new patients added to the HIV/AIDS caseload over the past 12 months.
 
 Drugs like heroin, cocaine, MDMA (ecstasy) - known as street-drugs are commonly injected despite the high risk of contracting AIDS. In fact, one in 23 women and one in 36 men, who inject drugs have a risk of contracting AIDS, health authorities say.
 
 Overall, the state has an estimated 400 such AIDS patients who contacted the dreaded virus through intravenous drug injections. Apart from the street drugs, even prescription drugs like tablets, capsules and liquids are injected occasionally, say insiders.
 
 "Drug abusers often begin with taking pills or snorting drugs in the powdered form, slowly graduate to the intravenous method. Most of the abusers are obsessed with being on a perpetual high. Over time, the usage of pills, capsules, puffing and snorting slowly reduce the impact and hence they switch to intravenous drugs," said an official at the Narcotics Control Bureau.
 
 These injectable drugs are often make from powder or crystal form of drugs by dissolving them in water. Sometimes it is even heated up if required and later drawn in to the syringe by dipping a cotton ball into the solution. "The fact that many of the drug users also have unsafe sexual practices, increase the risk of HIV due to sharing of the syringes," added the official.
 
 Apart from getting a high, there are many more reasons why addicts graduate to intravenous drugs say experts, even if it comes with the highest risk of contracting AIDS as well as other blood-related infections. 
 
 "The type of injected drug are opioids- the most well-known of which is heroin. Other opioid medicines that IV drugs users frequently abuse are fentanyl, Talwin and buprenorphine, as well as the prescription painkillers oxycodone and hydrocodone (the latter two are first crushed into a powder and then dissolved into a solution for injection)," added Dr  , senior consultant internal medicine, Maxcure hospitals. 
 
 Stimulants are popular with IV drug users because they quickly deliver a strong feeling of euphoria, as well as increased energy, reduced appetite and a reduced need for sleep. "People who repeatedly snort suffer discomfort due to perforation of nasal mucosa, sinusitis, nose bleeds, loss of sense of smell, problems in swallowing and hoarseness," he added.
 
