NAGPUR: When schools reopen next month, students will find that their school canteen’s menu has undergone a major change. The state government has banned junk food sale in all canteens based on recommendations from the union Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) and has suggested ‘healthier’ alternatives. 

 Though not many state affiliated schools have canteens, the latest circular from state can be interpreted to include vendors who sell pre-packaged or pre-cooked food items on campus during breaks.
 
 Foods that are high in fat, salt and sugar, popularly known in medical jargon by its acronym HFSS, have been struck off the menu by the state citing the danger it poses to kids’ health. Sanjay Nagre, a senior education official at Deputy Director of Education (Nagpur) office said, “It has been proven by research that junk food contain additives that are unhealthy for kids. There are chemicals which are used for preserving food, some for colour and ultimately have a detrimental impact on kids’ health.” The state has also directed schools to increase awareness about the problems related with HFSS food. 
 
 Medical practitioners feel that this decision by state proves that finally physical health is considered part of a child’s development. Dr Rajiv Mohta, adolescent counsellor and paediatrician said, “It is good to know that finally the education department considers physical health, mental health and academics as the triumvirate for a child’s overall development. In fact, in their suggested list for beverages they may add ORS for those who take part in sports to take care of the salt loss.” 
 
 The MWCD had raised concerns over the food consumed by kids and for that formed a committee under Director of   (Hyderabad). The committee came up with various recommendations, among which was suggestions about what the menu in   should be. The committee noted that HFSS food posed a threat to students’ health and increased chances of obesity, diabetes, dental and heart problems. The state government had been discussing over the MWCD recommendations and on Monday decided to finally implement it. 
 
 CBSE was the first to implement this MWCD report and issued directives to all affiliated schools in January 2016 itself. In fact, CBSE had suggested that a   (SCMC) should take charge of menu preparation. CBSE wanted 7-10 members, including teachers, parents, students and school canteen operators to coordinate, implement and monitor the guidelines to make safe food avaialbe to students in schools. 
 
