Vijayawada: The state government is taking huge strides in achieving its goal of making all state roads gravel-free by 2020. The state has laid 10,000 km of cement concrete (CC) roads in the last three years. To put that in perspective, it had just 12,000 km of   till then.

 This year, the government is aiming to lay another 6,000 km of CC roads taking the total in the last three years to to 16,000 km and 12,000 km since state bifurcation. If the target is achieved, then the state will have to lay another 20,000 km of CC roads to make the state roads gravel-free.
 
 “We are confident of meeting the target. Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and   raj minister Nara Lokesh are motivating the department to reach the target of 100 per cent CC roads in the state,” panchayat raj commissioner B Ramanjaneyulu told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 For the CC roads plan, the state government is pooling funds from different heads, including Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). The roads in tribal areas are being laid using financial allocations from SC and ST sub-plans. There are 2,200 tribal and remote habitations, where road connectivity is yet to be provided. Officials said these areas were shown as locations with road connections. Reportedly, the chief minister during a review found the lapse and is now trying to correct it.
 
 “We are trying to establish that these 2,200 habitations are not connected with roads. Once this is done, we will get additional funds from the Central government and will be able to provide connectivity to these habitations,” said Ramanjaneyulu.
 
 Besides focusing on CC roads, the state government is also focusing on providing underground drainage facilities in major gram panchayats. A pilot project in West Godavari district is already nearing completion, where underground drainage has been developed in 18 major gram panchayats. Having tasted success with the pilot project, the government is planning to extend the same to the rest of the state.
 
 “All the existing open drains will be closed and the villages will have only underground drainage system. This will take a few years. Once the villages have CC roads, underground drainage will give a new look to the rural areas,” said the panchayat raj commissioner. The government plans to cover at least two major gram panchayats, mostly the mandal headquarters, in every assembly constituency under this scheme.
 
 “We are targeting 24,000-km-long underground drainage facility in the state in the next two years at a cost of Rs 25 lakh a kilometre,” Ramanjaneyulu said. The government set a budget of Rs 620 crore for underground drainage in major gram panchayats.
 
 “A gram panchayat with less than 2,000 population will pay 10 per cent of the total cost for underground drainage, while the gram panchayats with a population of 9,000 will have to pay 30 per cent of the total cost,” the commissioner said adding that the department was trying to bolster the finances of these gram panchayats by forwarding grants from the 14th Finance Commission.
 
 “We have so far released Rs 2,432 crore to the gram panchayats in the state from the 14th Finance Commission allocations. This year, we are giving Rs 1,673 crore and next year Rs 1,858 crore. In 2019, we would be giving Rs 2,100 crore which would enable the gram panchayats to meet their expenses,” Ramanjaneyulu said.
 
 
