PUNE: Next month’s   are taking yet another leap into the digital age, thanks to an initiative by the  .

 Unlike the previous election cycles, this time, candidates will have to submit their nomination papers and all the other important documents online.
 
 And to educate candidates about this process, training sessions are being organized for candidates from both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations.
 
 On Monday, the first of several sessions for PMC candidates will be held at the Balgandharva Rangmandir. 
 
 The following day, PCMC candidates will be trained from 10am to 1pm at Acharya Atre auditorium in Sant Tukaramnagar near Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.
 
 PMC’s election department has appealed to all political parties to send at least five representatives. Apart from a live demonstration, officials will be present at the venue to interact with the candidates. Returning officers’ offices will have help desks to provide assistance. 
 
 “The step has been taken as per the directives of the Maharashtra state election commission. Earlier all these documents, including election forms, affidavits and others, were submitted physically at the election offices. Now they will be submitted online, and just a printout will be given to the office,” said Satish Kulkarni, PMC election officer. 
 
 Ten municipal corporations, including Pune, will go to the polls on February 21, with the results set to be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have been registered for this election, which will elect 162 corporators from 41 panels.
 
 PMC has appointed 14 returning officers each of whom will be aided by three assistant returning officers. 
 
 As per civic officials, each ARO will have different responsibilities. One will carry out election-related tasks, acquire stationery, and train members of the staff, the second will deal with issues related to the code of conduct, and the third will be involved in the online side of the process, such as updating the election webpage, uploading candidates affidavits and any other information they may submit to the election office.
 
