GURUGRAM: The   ( ), in an attempt to tackle outages and streamline the power supply, has decided to install 19 high capacity transformers across the city. The move comes in the wake of allegations that faulty infrastructure and deficient supply trigger frequent blackouts in the city. 

 “We have been receiving complaints from residents. We will install these transformers very soon. In fact, one of them is already functional. The new transformers will be among the most high capacity transformers in the city,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer, New Gurgaon.
 
 Four 630 KVA transformers, one 500 KVA, three 400 KVA, eleven 200 KVA transformers will be installed, Aggarwal said.
 
 “The addition of transformers will unload the entire power system. As of now, our priority is DLF Phase-3. We have received a lot of complaints from that area. We had a meeting with representatives from DLF. They shared their concerns with us. We will install most of these transformers in DLF only.”
 
 A discom official said three tranformers would be installed in Sohna road area. “There are problems in sectors 47, 48 and 49 in Sohna road subdivision. After the installation of these transformers, the infrastructure will see a capacity enhancement that will enable it to withstand the rising summer demand,” officials said. “Similarly, three such transformers will be installed in sectors 21, 22 and 23 in Maruti subdivision. They will have a capacity of 200 KVA each. Four transformers would be installed in South City.”
 
 Officials said the addition of new transformers will help the discom tackle outages. The discom has also shifted overloaded feeders to places where consumption is very less. “This will give respite to the feeders that are overburdened with demand rising,” said Aggarwal. 
 
 He said as of now, discom has shifted six such feeders to a newly installed 220 kV substation in Sector 20. “These six feeders supply electricity to Sector 32, Dundahera and other nearby areas. We hope this overhaul of system will improve the supply,” officials said.
 
 Aggarwal told TOI that the addition would likely to curb “line losses”. “When transformers are not overloaded, they don’t incur damage. One transformer costs us Rs 5 lakh.” 
 
 There are at least 400 feeders across Gurgaon, 25 of which are incurring “line losses”, which is more than 25 per cent. “We hope to bring these losses to less than 15 per cent,” Naveen Verma, SE, Old Gurgaon told TOI recently.
 
 
