RANCHI: Both India and Australia have faltered while using the Decision Review System ( ) in the ongoing series despite all the hue and cry over it. Till end of play on Day 4 of the third Test here, only 13 calls were upheld and 24 struck down by the match officials.

 Australia began well, enjoying seven successful reviews in the first two Tests against India's two. The script has, however, changed dramatically in Ranchi where all three India's review requests, so far, have been upheld. The Australians, on the other hand, reviewed five decisions made by on-field umpires   (England) and NZ's Chris Gaffaney.
 
 Sunday turned out to be physically and emotionally draining for the Aussies, and their frustration with the DRS started on the first ball of the second over (131.1) of the day when Pat Cummins' sharp incoming ball struck Saha on his front pad and umpire Gaffaney raised his index finger. Saha was quick to ask for a review and the ball-tracking technology showed that the delivery would have missed the leg stump comfortably.
 
 The Australians were left puzzled in the 140th over when Gaffaney appeared to be raising his finger to a stifled appeal from bowler Josh Hazlewood as Pujara appeared to have tickled a bouncer into  's gloves. But the umpire started scratching his head instead. The replays, however, showed that the ball had missed the bat.
 
 Pujara enjoyed yet another stroke of luck with the DRS when he had his review upheld on the fourth ball of the 155th over after Nathan Lyon struck him on the front pad. The balltracking technology suggested that the ball was doing too much and umpire Gould had to reverse his decision.
 
 Australia's luck with DRS did not change even after claiming the third new ball. This time, Steve Smith chose to contest umpire Gaffaney's decision when the official turned down a caught-behind appeal against Saha in the 190th over. It was a poor call from Smith as replays showed that Cummins' short ball had gone off Saha's chest as the batsman tried to sway away from it.
 
 Australia had their first two reviews in the Indian innings -one each against   and Pujara - struck down on Saturday. Their lone success with DRS in this match so far came against  , who got a faint edge to Wade while fending off a Cummins snorter. Earlier, India's review against Shaun Marsh in Australia's first innings had been upheld by third umpire Nigel Llong. 
 
 
