Madurai: Deviating from a 92-year-long tradition of presenting a separate railway budget, the union government this year will present a combined general budget. After two years of dry railway budgets without any new trains, extensions or major infra announcement, rail users are hopeful that the combined   will bring them cheer. 

 Various rail users and forums have presented their demands to concerned railway divisions and the railway ministry. Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited members from Madurai met Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu in December last year. “During the meeting, the railway minister said that state government should support new projects with land acquisition and by sharing financial burden. But he was optimistic to expedite already sanctioned projects. So we are hopeful that the region or Tamil Nadu as a whole will get more attention in the budget”, said president of the association, S P Jeyapragasam.
 
 General secretary of Railway Passengers Welfare Organisation in Madurai, K Padmanathan pointed out that for two years there had been no major announcements or projects for Madurai region. “We are anticipating that there will be more funding to major infrastructure projects in the division this time”, he opined. His organisation has submitted a series of demands like more trains to Madurai, improving infrastructure facilities, extending rail insurance to all passengers of railways and providing facelift to major stations in the division. 
 
 At present, Madurai Railway Division is facing multiple challenges as major junctions including Madurai are saturated. In an earlier interaction with media, divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar Garg had spoken about improving adjacent Kudal Nagar station as coaching terminal for Madurai. Another challenge is the choked Madurai – Virudhunagar (40 kms stretch) section as   traffic from three points converge at Virudhunagar. Without doubling this section it will be impossible to operate any new trains from south to northern destinations. 
 
 Doubling Madurai – Virudhunagar is part of doubling between Madurai and Kanyakumari which was announced in railway budget 2015–16. But the project is yet to take off. Rail user forums and railway officials feel that doubling Madurai – Virudhunagar is pivotal and there will be some mention in the budget this year. 
 
 In the last few years, gauge conversion works like Pollachi – Palakkad were completed. Speculation was intense that once the works ended, old trains operated during meter gauge days like Rameswaram – Palakkad would be revived and many trains would be extended towards Mangalore and Konkan section. However no new trains have been operated so far. 
 
 Dindigul MP, M Udhyakumar in his petition to railways has appealed for utilising Dindigul – Palani – Pollachi route more. He said there should be more trains from the region like Nagercoil – Coimbatore Jan Shatabdi Express connecting southern districts with West Tamil Nadu. 
 
 On Pongal, Southern Railway had announced that Chennai Egmore – Manamadurai Express will be extended till Sengottai, a longpending demand of the public along Virudhunagar – Aruppukottai – Manamadurai railway line. All on a sudden, railway has ‘paused’ the announcement without implementing the extension. CPM party members who convened a meeting at Virudhunagar on Wednesday appealed to railways to extend the train till Sengottai. 
 
 
