BENGALURU: The roar of fighter jet engines rent the air, and the sky turned into a colourful canvas as planes whirled and swooped, performing one aerobatic manoeuvre after another. However, the aerobatic display on the inaugural day of the 11th edition of   at the Yelahanka Air Force Station, was not the most memorable one.

 The show started with IAF MI-17 choppers, decked with flags taking to the sky, followed by a wide array of formations from the country’s helicopter fleet. HAL made its presence felt with the display of its Light Combat Helicopter, weaponised Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) and Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40. The Light Utility Helicopter (LUH), flown by chief test pilot, Wing Commander (Retd.) Unni Pillai, made its debut at the show as well.
 
 Interestingly, the Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) – HAL’s attack helicopter – that is expected to be inducted into the IAF, was flown by pilots from Army Aviation.
 
 Saab’s Gripen-E and Lockheed Martin F-16, vying with each other to bag an IAF deal for single engine combat aircraft, put on a great show to catch the eye of the decision makers. 
 
 The performances by Gripen and F-16 set the stage for the IAF’s   and Su-30 MKI. The manoeuvres from these two supersonic jets drew rapturous applause from the spectators - the ‘slow pass’ made at a speed of 200kmph (these jets can fly at a speed of 1400kmph) being a particularly memorable move.
 
 However, spectators soon started leaving in a trickle. Those who remained waited eagerly for the   team to take to the skies. The team, flying jet-powered hawks at this edition, made a surprise entry above the spectators’ heads bringing back memories of their past performances. However, with just six jets in the air, in place of the nine aircraft that was the standard formation, the sheen of the team’s performance was visibly diminished. But some of the team’s the manoeuvres, despite the absence of smoke tails, left the spectators gaping in awe.
 
 The sight of the Scandinavian   team’s Skywalkers walking on the wings of the aircraft left everyone spellbound. With a colourful performance that included a heart shape traced in the sky to mark Valentine’s Day, the Yakovlevs made up for the lack of colours at the event.
 
