NAGPUR: A man with criminal records bludgeoned his 70-year-old father to death in an   over a tiff at his at   in Wanadongri, on Thursday.

 The accused, identified as   (32), also hit his mother Lakshmi (65) with the same wooden stick which he used to kill his father, Thamaji. His mother had tried to intervene in the tiff.
 
 Umesh’s wife Nanda (30), who jumped from the compound wall in fear but left her two sons behind, informed the police about the incident. But before the cops could reach the spot, Umesh forcibly took away his sons in a car by threatening to kill them.
 
 “Our squad and crime branch, under the guidance of DCP Deepali Masirkar, carried out search operation in the adjoining forest area of Wanadongri for the entire night. We finally found him roaming in the vehicle in the vicinity. We chased and nabbed him at Dhangarpura at 10.30am,” said senior PI Sunil Mahadik.
 
 Police rescued his Durgesh (7) and Adesh (9) and also arrested Umesh, the PI added.
 
 Police have registered offences of murder, attempt to murder and kidnapping under IPC sections 302, 307 and 363, respectively, against Umesh. He will be produced before the court on Saturday.
 
 “Before coming to the house, Umesh fought with someone else over a petty issue. As he returned home, Umesh started thrashing Lakshmi to vent his anger. In the meantime, Thamaji woke up and intervened. Thereafter, Umesh turned towards him and hit on his head. Lakshmi, who sustained injuries on her head too, tried to thwart him but Umesh pushed her away and killed his father,” relatives of the accuses told TOI.
 
 “Nanda, who was witnessing the incident, was also beaten up badly. However, she managed to miraculously escape from his clutches and ran out of the house,” they said.
 
 Police said Umesh has several previous criminal records, including assault and molestation of neighbour. He was released from the jail a month ago.
 
 Sources closed to family claimed that Thamaji, a labourer, had sold his farm to provide financial support to Umesh. They built a house and also   papers on his name. Thamaji bought a four-wheeler for him so that he eke out a living.
 
 However, Umesh drove his parents out of the house over domestic issues and took them back later as he needed money for consuming liquor.
 
