NEW DELHI: Electronic voting machines (EVMs) will be the focus of the special   session called by the AAP government on Tuesday. However, four MLAs of the opposition BJP are expected to rake up allegations of corruption levelled by Karawal Nagar legislator   against CM Arvind  .

 Clearly preparing to counter the attacks, Kejriwal put out a tweet late on Monday evening, which signalled that Tuesday could also see more mudslinging between the opposition and the ruling benches. “Truth will win. A beginning will be made in the Vidhan Sabha tomorrow,” Kejriwal tweeted.
 
 When the cabinet decided on a special session on Saturday, its purpose was not shared and since then the developments involving Kapil Mishra and AAP have generated much heat. However, it is learnt that House will open with a discussion on EVMs. The assembly secretariat did not outline any official agenda till Monday evening.
 
 AAP has been raising doubts over the functioning of EVMs since the Punjab election results were out. It also raked up the matter in the run-up to the municipal polls in Delhi. Kejriwal had demanded the use of ballot papers instead of EVMs in the elections since no ‘voter verifiable paper trail’ machines would be used in Delhi.
 
 However, after the poll results, as voices from within the party rose against singularly attacking EVMs for the losses in the municipal elections, Kejriwal and AAP were seen keeping a low profile all of last week over the issue. Senior functionaries maintained that the matter was relevant and would remain a key concern for the party. They said a report was being compiled based on complaints related to EVMs and the facts would be placed in the public domain at the right time.
 
 Interestingly, the House will also see the emergence of new political equations as Mishra who was occupying the minister’s chair in the front row of the ruling benches will now be seen placed in a different space. His seat will also define the dynamics of interaction between him and other MLAs because he still remains a member of the AAP Legislature Party. Before this, three AAP MLAs were removed as ministers and suspended from the party. They are Asim Ahmed Khan, Jitender Tomar and Sandeep Kumar.
 
 AAP legislators will occupy 65 of the 70-member House since one of its MLAs from Bawana, Ved Prakash, resigned before the municipal polls and joined BJP. The seat has fallen vacant and a new MLA will have to be elected by way of a bypoll. Also the Rajouri Garden assembly went to BJP in the bypoll before the municipal polls, taking the opposition tally in the House to four from three.
 
