Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: Despite repeated clarifications from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the central government, many shopkeepers in the city are reluctant to accept Rs 10 coins due to an unwarranted fear of fake coins in the same denomination are in circulation. TOI spotted incidents of shopkeepers at Gandhipuram and near Omni bus stand refusing to accept Rs 10 coins. 
 
 Several tea stalls and petty shops in Gandhipuram are not willing to accept the coins, though they have not stuck any notice on this. 
 
 “I tried to buy cigarettes and mint several times in the last few days by giving  . Unfortunately, many tea stalls near the Omni bus stand refused to accept it,” said a freelance photographer, Vikram* (name changed). 
 
 However, there are some who accept the coins. Vikram said bakeries and petty shops on Avinashi Road did not seem to have any problem. “They have been accepting the coins,” he said. 
 
 A businessman from R S Puram on Sunday faced trouble buying vegetables at the R S Puram market on Cowly Brown Road. “Almost all vendors refused to accept Rs 10 coins. Only one vendor selling lemon took it. He was, in fact, lamenting that how a WhatsApp message has created confusion among people,” said Kumar A. 
 
 “I do not see big showrooms or shops refusing to accept the coins. So, it has affected small traders. Not just the RBI or the Centre, but the state government, district administration, trade organizations and industrial bodies should issue statements to help stop the confusion,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, trade bodies blame banks for the reluctance among shopkeepers to accept Rs10 coins. “Banks are also not allowing us to deposit Rs 10 coins in large quantities. If we even want to deposit Rs 1,000 in the denomination of Rs 10, banks prevent us from doing so. In this scenario, we cannot accept the coins from customers,” said the district president of Tamil Nadu Federation for Traders’ Association, G Irdaya Raja. 
 
 “If banks issue circulars announcing that they will accept the coins for a few days, the problem will be solved,” he said.
 
 
