GURUGRAM: The   of Huda is in a spot for giving a separate water connection to a private school, which is on the premises of   in Sector 54, in violation of the rules. A township, according to the rules, can be given only one connection from the master water pipeline.

 Suncity residents, who protested the glaring violation of rules by the development body, alleged that additional connection to the school from the master pipeline could trigger shortage in water supply to the condominium. 
 
 Suncity is spread across 109 acres of land, and around 15,000 families are living in the condominium. Protesting the violation allegedly committed by the development authority, residents of   on Tuesday met Huda superintendent engineer (SE) Naresh Pawar in his Sector 14 office.
 
 “Huda has given a connection of 10-inch pipeline for the entire condominium with a daily requirement of 41 lakh litres of water, but a separate connection of a six-inch pipeline was given to the private school on the township premises. This connection also has the capacity to supply 15,000 litres of water a day,” said  , president of   (RWA). He alleged that this was a “clear case of corruption”.
 
 VMK Singh, secretary of Suncity RWA, has alleged the connection given to the private school has a booster pump also. “It will create water shortage in the locality,” said Singh, adding that they have been facing water crisis owing to the violation committed by Huda. He also alleged their request to install a booster pump in the condominium fell on deaf ears of the authority.
 
 SE Pawar said a parallel water supply connection with a booster pump to the private school apart from supply line to the township should not be given as per the rule. 
 
 “As per the Huda norms, every plotted colony, if located on the side of the master supply line (like Suncity), can be given only one connection. If a separate connection has been given, it is a violation,” Pawar said, adding that they will investigate the matter. The school authority said they had applied for the water connection to meet their requirements. “A competent authority sanctioned the connection and we have paid necessary fee,” a school official said, adding that they have not got the connection yet.
 
