BENGALURU: It has been a whole new experience for   students since they started writing examinations on electronic tablets.The digital initiative has helped the varsity save 30 lakh papers every year. Currently, 10,000 students have been given e-tabs for this year's examinations, and 25,000 are expected to get them by the end of 2018.

 Currently, all institutes under Manipal University, barring Manipal Institute of Technology, are using tablets for assignments and examinations.Soon, they will part of regular curriculum where students will be issued tabs during admission itself. Registrar Dr   said: “We introduced tabs on a trial basis for two years and got positive feedback from both teachers and students.“
 
 Some Bengaluru colleges like   and  , Malleswaram have joined the trend of going paperless for examinations.
 
 
 
 
 These devices designed for examinations have a special surface, providing a writing experience similar to that on paper. The surface reduces glare and the limited viewing angle deters students from copying. The app interface on the device provides features like redo, undo, cut, copy, rough note, besides availability of ruled and unruled pages, which help students write exams effectively. It also has a fingerprint scanner.
 
 “Our student write exams on desktops. We are planning to introduce tabs by 2018-19. A lot of security features need to be set up before implementing it,“ said Prof Ajoy Kumar, COO, PES Institutions.
 
 In 2014,   introduced tablets for examinations in business studies. In 2016, the same was implemented by Maharani Laxmi Ammanni College for Women. However, it has been put on hold at Mount Carmel College. “Undoubtedly, it was the most relaxed and convenient process for teachers as well as students, but it requires a lot of investment and logistics. It's not that plans to go digital have been dropped; we are still considering it, seeing the benefits of both,“ said S Rajkumar, senior professor from busi ness education department at Mount Carmel College.
 
 “I felt relaxed using a tab. We did not carry a hall ticket or stationery and being an MBBS student, we could use colours for our diagrams while writing answers, so it made the answer sheets look presentable to the evaluator,“ said Megha S, II-year MBBS student, Manipal University.
 
 
 
 According to universities and colleges, introducing tabs for engineering students might take some time as their tabs need to be specially designed with codes, so that chances of copying are reduced. “It may take two more years to develop such codes for writing.Moreover, students have to draw many diagrams and graphs, for which they should be trained while using tabs,“ said Manipal University registrar Narayana Sabhahit.
 
