NOIDA: Residents of Noida have given a thumbs down to the Noida Authority’s proposal to amend its building bylaws, 2010.

 The Authority, which had proposed amending the bylaws in a board meeting in October last year, on Tuesday sought objections and suggestions from the public through a notice. The amendment, sought by the department of architecture and planning,  , aims to increase the density of persons per hectare by 5% in group housing societies. At a meeting with the Authority officials, residents opposed the amendment on the ground that it would increase the density of residential area on group housing plots.
 
 They said the proposed amendment would increase the density of residential units in group housing plots to more than 1,650 persons per hectare (ppha). The residents rejected the proposal, saying Noida was already congested and an increased density in population would put pressure on the existing infrastructure and basic amenities.
 
 Deepak Agarwal, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida Authority, told TOI that the Authority has made a note of the residents’ objections. “They will be presented at the next board meeting after being evaluated and resolved,” Agarwal said. “Our observations will then be forwarded to the state government before we can implement the revision,” he said.
 
 Shailandar Baranwal, one of the residents who had raised the objections during the meeting on Tuesday with the additional CEO,  , said that the master plan of a city was a city development plan, which has already been designed and approved.
 
 “The basic design data for the master plan is based on the physical, socio-economic surveys and prevailing building bylaws. Based on this basic data, the calculation of total land requirement for different uses and population of the city is fixed,” he said.
 
 Baranwal said that based on this data population and available land area, infrastructural facilities all over the city are defined. “Any change in the building bylaws will change the overall character of the city. Hence in our opinion the change in building bylaws, more particularly in density, will change the population of the city. This changed population will affect the provisions of various infrastructural facilities besides causing burden on them,” he said. “We have objected to this,” he added.
 
 The amendments in building bylaws have also proposed that additional proportionate residential units be allowed on purchasable FAR for group housing plots. “Maximum density after purchasable FAR is allowed to group housing plots after amendment is proposed to be 1,650ppha,” he said.
 
 
