At last evening’s dance ballet 'Premer Joware', based on a combination of Rabindranath Tagore’s poem ' ' and his famous ballet ' ', members of the 42-year-old   for Tagore Music and Culture, brought to the fore the rise of the creative dance form, Rabindra Nritya.

 Every connoisseur of music and poetry is familiar with Rabindranth Tagore’s poems and songs, but not many are exposed to Rabindrik dance. For the uninitiated, Rabindra Nritya is a unique genre of creative dance that is a sophisticated and stylised form. The intensity of Tagore’s poems and dance dramas come alive with this expressive dance form.
 
 Shahana is one of those music schools that is known for teaching Rabindra Sangeet and at the same time, they have a group of dancers who perform Rabindrik Nritya to showcase Tagore’s poetry and music. 
 
 Every year, they perform Tagore’s nritya natya (dance dramas), including   (the story of the warrior princess of Manipur), Manavkanya (the story of Prakriti, the untouchable who is almost reborn after giving a drink of water to   the Buddhist monk), Bonobani, Antabiheen Poth and more.
 
 Anusree Bonnerjee, a Bharatnatyam and Rabindra Nritya exponent, who has used this dance form for her choreography when interpreting Tagore’s works, says, “This genre is an aesthetic and creative amalgamation of Indian traditional, classical and folk dance forms including   dance, Bharatnatyam, Kathak, some Sri Lankan dance forms and other styles. Unlike classical dance forms, Rabindrik dance is a little more approachable and is not so strictly stylised as a form.” 
 
 She adds that it has dancers moving in perfectly synchronised dance steps that blend with the lyrical beauty of Tagore’s songs. Anusree states that Rabindrik dance is not difficult to understand. “It is more an expression of self in a very simple manner and has its own graceful look, which is why a lot more people are opening up towards it,” she says. 
 
 We often see in the classical styles that men are not alien to dance, and   also has men in their 20s and 30s participating in their Rabindrik dance recitals. Shahana tells simple and beautiful stories through their dance, which makes it easy for children to learn it too. Anusree adds, “I am enthused about teaching this dance form to kids and youngsters.”
 
 Rabindrik natya is expressive and deep, yet, simple for the audience to grasp and embrace. 
 
 
 
