LUCKNOW: After his talks with his son and chief minister   on Tuesday failed to resolve the ongoing feud in the party, SP patriarch   is likely to toughen his stance in days to come.

 With a majority of MLAs, ministers and cadre already shifted to the Akhilesh camp, Mulayam is keeping an eye on the party's state headquarters and workers.
 
 Stung by the moves of his rival camp, masterminded by his own cousin   Yadav, the veteran leader discussed the future strategies with his younger brother   late Tuesday night. He has openly expressed that he has nothing again his son, but Ram Gopal remains his main target. A few days after he was ousted as the   president on January 1, Mulayam sent out a stern message to the rival camp, saying he still called the shots in the party . He also locked the doors of his office at the party's headquarters and took away the keys.
 
 Immediately after, he flew to Delhi, where he wrote to the   challenging the constitutio nality of the national convention called by Ram Gopal.
 
 Mulayam condemned Ram Gopal, who is the main petitioner against him before the Election Commission and removed him from the post of the party's Rajya Sabha leader. Ram Gopal has prayed before the commission that Mulayam has been removed from the post of party president and Akhilesh has become the new chief of the party .To substantiate his claims before the commission, Ram Gopal submitted affidavits of 220 MLAs and over 4,700 delegates and 15 MPs, which rattled Mulayam further.
 
 In a clever move, Mulayam then declared that none other than Akhilesh will be chief minister of UP if SP came too power. But he did not concede on any main contention between the warring camps, especially the issue of presidentship.
 
 Even after his announcement, when his 90-minute meeting with Akhilesh failed to yield any result, Mulayam called Shivpal to his residence on Tuesdsay night and discussed plan to field his own candidates.
 
 Shivpal had returned to Lucknow from Delhi on Monday and had already clarified that he was neither interested in any post in the party nor contesting the election is keeping himself away from the raging feud between the father and the son.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav's camp, comprising mostly youth leaders, is fully prepared to go to elections alone. Akhilesh is in a decisive mood to establish himself in the party . On the other hand, with his attempt to end the feud failed, the SP veteran, too, is likely to get more rigid
 
