GURUGRAM: Over a thousand   protested for nearly an hour at the construction site of the Camellias, a premium housing project on Golf Course Road, on Friday over demands for better food, transportation and overtime allowance. 

 The protesters broke the glass panes of the front office and damaged furniture.
 
 Over 100 policemen, led by DCP (East) Deepak Saharan, rushed to the spot around 9am and it took them more than an hour to pacify the agitated workers. “The workers were given a day off to cool down and we arranged a mediation between the  , the workers and officials from the labour department. However, no FIR has been registered in the matter,” said ACP Manish Sehgal.
 
 Around 2,000 workers are employed by Leighton India Contractors Private Limited that is constructing the condominium. A construction worker told TOI on condition of anonymity that their basic needs were being long ignored by the contractor and their repeated complaints to Leighton India’s management had only fallen on deaf ears. “The contractor earlier deducted Rs 600 a month from our salaries for meal, which was recently raised to Rs 900 a month. But we are still served the same menu, including a potato curry, everyday. The contractor never offers us even a single non-vegetarian dish,” said the worker.
 
 The workers also alleged that there weren’t enough buses to transport them to their camps, despite deduction of transportation charges from their wages. “Moreover, the contractor only allots overtime duties to their favourite ones,” said the worker.
 
 “We have asked the contractor to provide a non-vegetarian dish to workers at least once a week. Also, the workers said due to the shortage of vehicles, they had to wait after their shifts to go home. So, we have asked the contractor to increase the number of buses from 15 to 20,” said Dinesh Kumar, deputy labour commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 “We have also instructed the construction company to set up a grievance cell for all labour-related issues and resolve the complaints within 48 hours,” said SDM Bharat Bhushan Gogia.
 
 However, when contacted, Leighton India denied any labour unrest at the construction site. “There have been some queries with regard to altercations between the workers and their supervisors at the site. We would like to put it on record that those were minor in nature stemming from some misunderstanding and have been amicably resolved between the two parties,” it said.
 
 
