Mangaluru: Join Navy, See the World, goes a popular saying. Spreading this message on the ground are 15 personnel of the Indian Navy with their Coast to Coast Outreach programme. Organised to celebrate platinum jubilee of INS Valsura, a premier training establishment of the Navy, the outreach programme will see these sailors take a road trip down Peninsular India before heading back to Jamnagar where they started on March 16.

 The team headed by Cdr M K Sharma has two other cdrs, three lieutenant cdrs, three lieutenants, as many sub-lieutenants and two chief EA(P)s. Having logged 1,800 km since they set out from Jamnagar, the teams in their five SUVs are interacting with potential Navy personnel of the future in schools and colleges. They are scheduled to log 6,000 km in all by the time this programme ends on April 1, after traversing via Kochi and Vishakapatnam.
 
 Having touched base at Mangaluru on Monday enroute Kochi, the team in an interaction with TOI, said they were happy to see the enthusiasm among students to know more about the armed forces, especially the Indian Navy. Cdr Hari Parameshwaran, PRO of the team, said, “We are telling Gen Y about career possibilities that await them in the Navy and they are enthusiastic. We get a lot of queries about various roles one can have in the Navy,” he said.
 
 Reasoning that young India has set its benchmark to ensure a youthful armed force, Cdr Sharma said the maximum age for entry is 25 years barring a couple of wings such as Law where the age cap is 27. Recalling an experience during one such interaction, where a person aged 40, who was quite fit, wanted to know if he could join the armed forces, Cdr Sharma said; “It is this lack of information that we intend to fill in through the programme”.
 
 For Lt Shreya Chaudhary and Sub Lt Harsha Mann, women officers on the team, the inquiries from women about careers in the armed forces is heart warming. “|Seeing us there, the girls are more inquisitive about the possible openings for them,” Lt Shreya said. Sub Lt Harsha says the girls are equally curious about combat and non-combat roles. “NCC Cadets in fact are more open to asking about combat roles and this is indeed a good augury,” she adds.
 
 QUOTE
 
 I hail from Himachal Pradesh and it was my dream to be part of the Navy after seeing a Navy Personnel in uniform as a student. It should be a lot easier for youths from the coast to be part of the Navy rather than those from the country’s heartland. I have realised my dream to be part of the uniformed services joining the Navy. – Commander M K Sharma, team leader, Coast to Coast Outreach Programme.
 
 THE TEAM
 
 Commanders M K Sharma, Prabhat Mishra, Hari Parmeshwaran, Lt Cdrs Peter Xalco, Madhan Chakravarthy, Pankaj Rana; Lts Sune Phogat, Shreya Chaudhary, Anand Tripathi, Sub Lt Bebito Thomas, Shailesh Shandailya, Harsha Mann; Gurdarshan, and Anand Bhalla, Chief EA (P).
 
 
