PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Sceptical about the latest strategy of the traffic police to improve night driving conditions in the city through increasing the timing of signals, road safety experts feel its enforcement is more critical.

 Reacting to the decision of the traffic police to extend the traffic signal timings till midnight at 80-plus critical junctions in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad (from the previous 11pm) to check the red light jumping and drunk driving, those fighting for road safety stressed on the importance of building in the fear of the law through more stringent action against rule-breakers.
 
 Ashish Mane, a civic activist fighting for better living conditions in the eastern part of the city, said, “Drivers in Pune do not follow the signal even in the daytime if there is no traffic police.”
 
 Rajendra Sidhaye, the chairman of the  , said, “There are many chowks where traffic is very heavy even around midnight. Signals are supposed to be followed at all times of the day. Enforcement, if done randomly, is most effective in ensuring that drivers follow rules.”
 
 People generally make light of rules after 9pm here, admitted Samaiirah, the state director for  . “Traffic thins out after 9pm, so many drivers think they can make a dash for it. This is an attitude problem, too, and needs to be tackled through awareness and better surveillance through cameras,” she said.
 
 Reacting to the points raised by citizens, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale assured that police presence would be visible on roads even in the night. “We shall deploy cops to monitor the traffic situation even after 9pm. These personnel will not only check signal jumping, but will also catch drunk drivers. We are currently evaluating the problematic spots to optimize our manpower deployment,” he said.
 
 Inspector (planning)   of the traffic police said the major problem was of increased traffic volumes. “We keep getting complaints of traffic jams and chaos even till midnight from many areas where the traffic is heavy. This extension of signal timings by an hour will check the problem of which side of the junction goes first. Our teams will extend their working by an hour, too,” he said.
 
