CHENNAI: A criminal attempting to hide clues he's aware could give him away may not always be a good idea, as an autorickshaw driver who attempted to kidnap a Class III schoolgirl on Santhome High Road on Wednesday learned after police arrested him on Sunday. 

 Investigators said they arrested  , 42 of  , Mylapore, after a mechanic tipped the   police that an autorickhaw driver was trying to change the distinctive red rim of the vehicle he drove.
 
 Gunasekaran was trying to evade arrest after his botched attempt to kidnap a girl in Mylapore, an investigating officer said.
 
 A woman, the child's neighbour, had on Wednesday noticed him pulling the child by her hand and, suspecting something was amiss, had called out to the girl by her name. The man panicked, let go of the child and sped away in his autorickshaw - but not before security cameras in the vicinity recorded the attempted abduction and the fact that the culprit's vehicle, unusually, had a front wheel with a red rim.
 
 As police launched a search for the auto driver based on the evidence, images from the security camera circulated on social media, showing the vehicle with its telltale front wheel.
 
 "Realising that the red rim would be a giveaway, Gunasekaran started to search for a replacement," the officer said on Sunday. "He had erased the number from the vehicle's registration plate but was unable to remove the rim himself, so he went looking for help from mechanics on Santhome High Road."
 
 Gunasekaran contacted a mechanic who immediately informed Mylapore policemen, he said. They asked the mechanic to keep Gunasekaran engaged, and he played along, till a police team arrived and took him into custody.
 
 "Gunasekaran told us that he had been an autorickshaw driver for more than three years," the officer said. "He had been driving a vehicle that his neighbour loaned to him."
 
 "Gunasekaran said his motive was not to kidnap the girl," he said. "But we know that he had been trailing her for more than a week, whenever she went out on her bicycle."
 
 "Prior to nabbing Gunasekaran, we had shortlisted 10 autorickshaw drivers with vehicle registration numbers that matched part of the number that a witness, a security guard, had noted down," Mylapore deputy commissioner Bala Krishnan said.
 
 The Mylapore police have booked Gunasekaran for attempted abduction and under provisions of the POCSO Act.
 
 
