 aka   (her screen name in Tollywood) of the Lux Papa fame from  , has been missing from Telugu films for a while. The actress, who was last seen in Nagesh Kukunoor’s national award-winning film Dhanak, is kicked about sharing the screen with   in  . She gets chatty with Hyderabad Times about why she was missing out of action in Tollywood and much more. Excerpts: 

 
 
 Once my mother told me, “Even if your name is  , if your time is not right nothing will change your fortune.” I believe in it. Flora is my real name, my father gave me that name. And all my documents are registered with my original name. Asha was my name in my maiden Telugu film, Prema Kosam. The makers of the film changed my name from Flora to Asha, without even asking me. My career in Tollywood picked up and the name stuck. In fact my public profile online also goes by the name Asha. But now that I’ve moved back to Mumbai, everyone knows me as Flora. So, I decided to stick to my original name, because that’s the name my parents gave me. So yes, I would like to be called Flora. 
 
 
 
 Yes, I play a tribal girl Naina who’s from Gujarat. I underwent a workshop to get my mannerisms and body language right. I even visited the red light area in Mumbai to observe how sex workers talk, walk, meet and greet people etc. It was a very challenging role to play and I hope my work in Begum Jaan will bring me back to people’s mind. 
 
 
 Yes, not since  , back in 2013. Nobody offered me a role since. I’m just waiting for the makers to wake up and call me back (laughs). Well, it’s my fault actually, the result of a year-and-a-half-long break it took due to a personal reasons. I stopped taking up any films that came my way and it cost me a lot. While I was on a break, a lot of new faces came up. And when I got back to acting I took up Bollywood films and was left with no time to do films here. One Hindi film takes almost a year, while films here are shot in three to four months. A lot of filmmakers stopped calling me gradually assuming I’m not interested or too busy with Bollywood films. I lost a lot of films that ways. As the adage goes, out of sight, out of mind.
  
 
 No. I don’t really regret my decision because I did a lot of films here in Bollywood. I got Begum Jaan because director   liked my performance in Dhanak, and contacted   to enquire about me. I went for the audition and got selected. Also, I don’t see a lot of actresses who had started their career along with me still working, so that ways, I’m lucky to still be doing some good work. I still have a long way to go.
 
 
 
 No. I’m just focussed on doing the best I can from what comes my way. I remember, at a recent award function, when somebody asked Manoj Bajpayee, ‘Apko kaisa lagta hai you acting in films?’. He replied, ‘For an actor, acting acting hai, chahe woh TV ho, short film ya feature film. The camera that changes, but actors ka kaam change nahi hota hai’. I strongly believe that. So I think more than me choosing what films I do, filmmakers choose me and that’s how I got to work in different languages. And as far as acting in Telugu films goes, of course, I’d love to. In fact, Telugu is like my mother tongue because I can speak the language better than my mother tongue Punjabi (smiles), thanks to all the Telugu films I did so far. 
 
 
