GURUGRAM: Simran Dixit, a resident of   A Block, was returning home on Saturday when a troop of monkeys near her home frightened her. “I was scared to go closer to the pack and called up our society’s gardener for help. He shooed them away so that I could enter my home,” she said.

 But a disturbing sight awaited Dixit at her terrace. She was shocked to a see a dead   with its feathers lying all around its body. “I have seen the monkeys climb the trees in a bid to attack birds, but the birds usually fly to escape. But this one was probably not that lucky,” Dixit said.
 
 A spate of monkey attacks in the area has become a cause of concern for the residents, who live in fear . At least 40 families in South City live in the constant fear of monkeys. There have been incidents of monkeys ransacking homes and attacking people.
 
 Earlier this month, TOI reported how a troop of monkeys attacked an autistic girl in the residential society.
 
 “Peacocks visit our terrace often in search of food. The bird is also protected under Wildlife Protection Act. In our society, however, they are as vulnerable to monkey attacks as humans. I have tried raising this issue several times with the MCG, but my pleas fell on deaf ears. We pay maintenance fee to both the developer, Unitech, and MCG, yet no one is coming forward to help us,” said Sharad Dixit, Simran’s husband. The family recently suffered a loss of Rs 1 lakh when monkeys ransacked their home after guests accidently left one of the doors open.
 
 Mahipal Singh, another resident of South City, said his wife was recently attacked by monkeys when she was emptying the domestic waste into a dustbin placed outside her home. According to rough estimates, Gurgaon has a population of around 30,000 monkeys. “These monkeys turn to human habitations in search of food,” said Shyam Sundar, district forest officer (Wildlife), Gurgaon. 
 
 “People sometimes give them food willingly as it holds religious significance for some people,” Sundar added. A city-based environmental activist, Vivek Kamboj, however, said, “We are to blame as we have invaded into their habitation.”
 
 
