VISAKHAPATNAM: The aircraft museum project has hit a deadlock with site owner   demanding compensatory land for it. 

 The university has already given around 19 acres of land for widening of roads at various places across the city in the past few years. But the   (GVMC) has not compensated it with land till date. Irked by the attitude of   staff, the AU administration wrote a letter to district collector   and other departments a week ago seeking compensation. The state government has also sought land from AU to berth the decommissioned TU 142M aircraft and convert it into a museum at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore. 
 
 “The district administration sought one acre land opposite Kursura museum. For each acre, the government has to allot three acres of land to Andhra University. If we provide this one acre, the government has to compensate around 60 acres to AU as we had already given 19 acres to the GVMC,” AU registrar Velagapudi   told TOI.
 
 At present, Andhra University has 428 acres in the south and north campuses donated by philontropists. They also have some acquired land. Around three acres land has been encroached by private individuals and cases are pending at court.
 
 Sources said the GVMC had promised to provide alternative land for AU at Mudasarlova. But that too has not materialised. “We have been sending letters to GVMC commissioners at regular intervals for one and half decade,” a senior professor said. Uma Maheswara Rao said he had sent three to four letters to the GVMC after he took charge as registrar.
 
 Tourism department   told TOI that the AU vice-chancellor has in-principle accepted to allot land in the presence of chief minister Chandrababu Naidu. “We came to know that the principle secretary of higher education has also written a letter to AU management to hand over the land to the district administration. We will take up the works soon,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, dismantling of the aircraft has not started till date. District officials now fear they may not be able to ground the project on time. The district collector has set August 15 as the date on which the TU 142 M aircraft museum will be inaugurated. 
 
