AURANGABAD: It seemed like the end of the road for   three years ago when her husband ended his life without giving even a slight hint.

 The 30-year-old, who lives in Karanjkalla village in Kalamb taluka of Osmanabad district, said she was shattered due to the sudden calamity. It was the thought of the future of her four children, one infant, one toddler and two pre-schoolers, that made her find her feet.
 
 “My husband did not think of our children while ending his life. I could not afford to be such an unmindful being a mother,” she said, summarising what made her stand again in life to face really tough challenges waiting ahead.
 
 While nearly 1.5 acre land in the drought-prone area was the sole source of earning bread and butter for her, she honed stitching skills so as to have some reliable income.
 
 Marathwada, which has earned dubious distinction as the state’s suicide capital following over 2,000 farmers committing suicide in past two years, has several inspirational stories of farmers’ widows, who defied every odd coming their way to ensure dignified existence for children and family.
 
 Not giving up to adversities in life after losing their husbands, these brave women have taken over the reins of their life and risen like phoenix from ashes.
 
 Rukmini Gunjal, whose farmer husband committed suicide two years ago, took up agriculture as occupation to make both ends meet. 
 
 “My husband inherited hardly 12 guntha land and I have been toiling hard on it for last two years to earn a livelihood. I take help of local men for heavy physical work but otherwise I do most of the work,” said the woman who is in her late 30s. 
 
 She has harvested nearly six quintal maize during Rabi season. Rukmini said her first priority after the death of her husband was marrying off her eldest daughter. 
 
 “I have two daughters and one son. I married off my eldest daughter more than a year ago by using financial help that came from the government. Locals also donated money for marriage. Now, I am keen to see my son completes his SSC soon and another girl who is in class IV also gets minimum formal education with whatever resources I have,” she said.
 
 Ranjana Pawar has picked up a part-time occupation of agricultural labour after her morning duty as anganwadi worker to earn enough money to raise her two daughters.
 
 Many affected widows said they do not receive any support from in-laws. Mangal Honmane, who hails from Sonpeth in Parbhani taluka, said she lives alone with her three children, including a one-and-half year old daughter. 
 
 “I work in farms as labour. My children are now driving force of my life. Despite my poor academic background, I am exploring options to increase my earning,” she said. 
 
 While over 200 farmers suicides were reported from the region in past two years in Marathwada, such unfortunate incidents continue to unabated despite good monsoon as at least 117 farmers from the region have ended their lives in first two months this year. 
 
 Rajabhau  , a non-governmental organization started by actors   and Makarand Anaspure, said the farmers widows personify courage and endurance.
 
 “Some people describe women as weaker sex , but looking at these widows one is bound to think otherwise. They are stronger by all means and acting as protagonist in their lives. Needless to say, their children are the sole motivation for these brave women,” he said. 
 
 Shelke called for the need to offer sustained means of livelihood for these widows. “At our end, we have distributed sewing machines to many widows. The government intervention in the form of some scheme or programme for skill development could be one of the possible options,” he said. 
 
