

 In my opinion, young people in the state are extremely talented. One of the reasons why only a few choose to enter the field of performing arts is that training opportunities are limited. When the   opened in 2011 under the aegis of the Gujarat University, master’s courses in the discipline were not available in the state. The second reason, I think, is socio-economic. Gujarat is famed for its entrepreneurship and arts are not a big draw. 
 
 
 The GU is the state’s largest educational institution and the current vice-chancellor, Himanshu Pandya, has been very supportive of Upasana’s endeavor to offer master’s courses in music, dance, and theatre. The initiative has furthered our mission to standardize syllabus for performing arts education. Classical traditions are even today transmitted through the guru-shishya custom. But the university method — involving classical icons — can work for students who don’t have access to the venerable system. 
 
 
 These will be the first-of-their-kind courses, offering integrated five-year programmes of study. Students will have an exit point after three years, should they wish to leave with a BA degree. Students will be groomed by distinguished figures from the classical pantheon such as Pandits Rajan and Sajan Mishra, vocalists; Sushri Saswati Sen, kathak exponent; and Sushri Manju Mehta, sitarist. Students can apply immediately after passing class XII. So they will get an early start in experiencing an inter-disciplinary style of learning; for example a tabla learner will also be given training sessions in singing. 
 
 
 Yes. Theory will account for about 30% of teaching and practice, 70%. The practical training will, of course, include insights into the intellectual basis of a performance. Because when students interact directly with legendary cultural figures, learning will be a richly discursive experience. 
 
 
 Students come to this field with passion and high expectations. Various pressures over the years can dim that passion. What they need to keep the fire alive is assurance, direction, and encouragement. High art can intimidate people. But once a culture of arts education takes firm hold, younger performers will be able to take the stage and thus draw younger audiences. On the other hand, the entertainment industry is huge and exerts an inexorable pull on young talent. But in my experience, with a little bit of support and the right kind mentoring, young people can thrive in traditional Indian performing arts. Besides, many still want to learn art for art’s sake. So I remain optimistic.
 
 (As told to Kannan Somasundaram) 
 
