NASHIK: Average wholesale prices at the country’s largest   —   (APMC) — has   in a month because of high supply. 

 Average wholesale onion prices have dropped from Rs 711 per quintal on January 5 to Rs 470 a quintal on February 7 because of the rise in supply. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 251 and Rs 588 per quintal respectively on Tuesday. Around 25,000 quintals of onions were auctioned at   the same day.
 
 An APMC official said that the harvest of the highly perishable kharif crop is in full swing and it is highly perishable. “Summer crop is stored for around six months, but the shelf life or kharif onions are less than one month. Farmers have no option, but to sell the commodity at the prevailing market rates. Currently, there have been huge arrivals in the market and it is almost double in the range from 25,000 to 35,000 quintals a day,” the official said.
 
 Daily arrival is around 15,000 quintal a day and now stands at 25,000 to 35,000 quintal a day. Onion prices have continued to drop even after the government extended 5% Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) subsidy for onion exporters up to March 31 because of the rise in arrival of onions. In the city’s retail market, onions are being sold in the range of Rs 10 to Rs 15 a kg. 
 
 Nanasaheb Patil, National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) director, said, “The production cost to grow onions is around Rs 950 a quintal and farmers incur losses if they get prices below that. The government has extended a 5% subsidy for onion exporters up to March 31, but the average wholesale onion prices have continued to decline. The rise in arrival of the crop as compared to the demand has led to the drop in wholesale onion prices.” 
 
 He added that though the government has extended subsidy benefits to onion exporters, the export is not taking place as needed. So, wholesale onion prices have continued to decline in the past one month.
 
 Patil said that the government needs to make efforts to increase onion exports through central agencies like NAFED and Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC). “Such agencies should be given targets of 5 lakh metric tonne each under the Price Stability Funds (PSF) to stabilise onion prices in domestic markets,” he said.
 
