AHMEDABAD : In 2010, the then chief minister Narendra Modi, had allotted six plots, measuring 100 square yards each, at   in   of Surendranagar district, to five   and one  . These land allotments, however, have remained just on paper, as actual possession has not yet been given to them.

 Villagers say they were not given possession of the land in Moti Majethi village as members of the Patidar community from nearby Kamalpur village, were not ready to have dalits as neighbours. The Patdi taluka administration has not been trying to strike a “compromise” on the issue, and wanted the beneficiaries live somewhere else. Meanwhile, the six beneficiaries sat on a fast at the Patdi taluka development office for the last five days. The alottees are Khanabhai Harijan, Dhiraj Thakor, Melabhai Haribhai, Shankardas Sadhu, Jagabhai Senva and Devabhai Senva.
 
 Chela Bharwad, sarpanch of the village, said, “The former chief minister Narendra Modi, had in 2010 handed the land papers to the dalits and Thakor at a Garib   in Dhrangadhra. It has been seven years. We recently learned that the Patidars in Kamalpur had objected, as dalits were allotted plots near their settlement and a Shiv temple. Political pressure was also put on the district administration by some BJP leaders, which ultimately deprived the dalits of their land.” One of the beneficiaries, Jagabhai, said they were given the land papers by Modi but the government officials are now asking them to settle at some other place. “We do not know who has been putting pressure on whom, but we have not been given the land for seven years,” he said. Rasik Someswara, a local activist, said the plots were not allotted as Patidar community members were against it.
 
 P M Makwana, Patdi taluka development officer (TDO), confirmed that the plot papers were given at a 2010   but later it was learned that some other land was supposed to be allotted to them, which has led to the confusion. “We are trying to solve the matter and a compromise will reached on the issue soon,” Makwana said. 
 
