GURUGRAM: A delegation of Delhi Public School, Ghaziabad ( ) officials, who met additional chief secretary (education) PK Das on Monday to discuss the fee and fund regulatory committee (FFRC) rules, claimed that it was because of the lack of knowledge of rules that parents had been alleging that the school “hiked the fee” arbitrarily.

 “The objectives of FFRC are very clear. We are not supposed to charge anything beyond what is mentioned in form VI,”  , vice chairman,  , said, adding, “It is not that we are disallowed to issue a new fee structure. We were actually registering ourselves as a new school with a new fee structure, which is not the same as hiking the fee… When you open a new school, you are permitted to issue whatever fee structure you can. The government will either approve or disapprove it. In our case, it has been approved. We have issued a base-level fee structure.” 
 
 Asked why the school hadn’t informed parents before issuing the new structure, Pathak said the news about it had already been leaked to the parents. Parents have been alleging that the school has duped them as it took full fee last year right up to Class 12 even though under new name it was supposed to only operate till Class 3.The school dismissed this allegation as “mere issue of technicality.”
 
 On Saturday, D Suresh told TOI he had called the school management to meet the officials on May 23 to clear the confusion over the row. He also termed the school’s contention as “logically wrong.”
 
 “It is contradictory,” he said. “It presupposes that school every school is thus better off not have recognition at all because that would make them free to charge whatever they like,” he said. “I want to see what the school officials have to say when they meet me. I would also like to examine the permission from the education department that they are speaking about. Let’s hear all concerns.”
 
 PK Das told TOI that he couldn’t comment on the issue because it was a quasi-judicial hearing that he undertook. “The new FFRC guidelines will be issued very soon. Most probably, next week.”
 
 
