JAIPUR: The Central government's new rules banning the sale of cows and buffaloes for slaughter through animal markets has invited severe criticism in Rajasthan which is famous for many cattle fairs since decades.

 People associated with this trade believe that this will not only create unemployment situation, but also put a dent on the tourism industry as cattle buyers and sellers added to the attraction for tourists at animal fairs at Pushkar, Nagaur etc. The central regulation for cattle business allows only farmers and land owners to trade at animal markets. The notification includes bulls, bullocks, cows, buffaloes, steers, heifers and calves, as well as the camel trade.
 
 Even at these fairs, cattle are not sold for slaughtering.However, it would discourage many farmers and buyers as process will get more complex. “Majority of participants are villagers and poor breeders who are not educated. After the regulation, the paper work for transaction in the trade will increase which will be a hassle for villagers. The number of participants is already decreasing and cattle fairs will die after these strict rules,“ said Rajveer Singh who is participating in Pushkar fair for the past 20 years.
 
 According to the new rules, buyers must have five copies of proof of sale and submit them at the local revenue office, the local veterinary doctor in the district of the purchaser, animal market committee, apart from one each for seller and buyer.   traders who are invol ve in practice of purchasing buffaloes and selling them in   fear that their employment will be snatched after the central government decisions.
 
 “Nasirabad is the biggest buffalo market in the state. We sell more than 200 buffalos daily in UP. More than 10,000 people are involved in the trade.The government will make all of them unemployed,“ said  , a trader at the market. Many also alleged that government is banning food for many poor people. “Majority of labourers eat buffalo meat to gain energy as it is affordable and cheap.
 
 The government is hitting at the staple diet after banning slaughtering,“ said  , a rickshaw puller. After the regulations, the dairy owners near the city are also apprehensive about purchasing animals including cows and buffaloes. “As per the new rules, cattle traders require to give an undertaking that the animals are only being sold for agricultural purposes and produce revenue records. We do not have agriculture lands and run our dairy on a small piece of land outside the city,“ said a dairy owner.
 
