AURANGABAD: With speculations rife that   major irrigation project and nearby areas could have become a seismic zone on the lines of Koyna dam, following a series of abnormal sounds heard in   and other villages, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has allayed any such fears.

 A team of Nagpur-based Earthquake Geology division of GSI studied the dam areas during its official visit upon request from the water resources department and revenue authorities. The team has concluded that abnormal sounds cannot be linked with possible presence of seismic zone.
 
 The GSI team studied underground movements beneath the dam using seismograph and other techniques to conclude that   is not a seismic zone.
 
 A section of locals residing around the dam claimed to have heard sounds while working in agricultural fields. The sounds heard were not from specific direction, and no ground vibrations were sensed either.
 
 “The official report submitted by GIS rules out the presence of any seismic zone in and around Jayakwadi dam. The findings have come as huge relief for us as locals were under the grip of panic fearing incidents like earthquake. The GIS findings will be communicated to locals as well,” in charge of Jayakwadi major irrigation project A H Chavan said.
 
 Terming the hearing of abnormal sounds as localised phenomenon due to local geological conditions, the GIS in its report has further recommended that a list of such occurrences be maintained in order to study the periodicity of such event.
 
 It has also asked for keeping a constant watch on fluctuations of the water level in local wells, which is believed to yield some useful information.
 
 The GIS during its field visit also observed that no cracks were reported from houses in the study area, which ruled out possibility of tremors. The concerned scientists, as per the inquiry, also observed that no mining activity was taking place in study areas and there were no other micro-tremor or related activities.
 
 As per GIS studies, the dam area represents isolated dissected hillocks in a vast pedi-plained area with a gentle slope towards east.
 
 Having huge surface area of over 350 square kilometre, Jayakwadi dam was commissioned in 1976. The frequency of abnormal sound near the dam has been escalated during past a few years.
 
 Arjun Kuche, a resident of   area near Jayakwadi dam, said the GIS report would put an end to rumours regarding sounds being heard in the area. “A section of locals was saying that such sounds were precursor to earthquakes that lead to panic among villagers. It is good that the government authorities invited a team of scientists and negated such fears,” he said. 
 
