Nagpur: Five months after production was stopped following misfires during trials, ordnance factories are ready with a fresh batch of   rockets, and are waiting for further approvals. One of the latest weapon systems for the artillery, the rockets can be fired up to a range of 40km. These are being made in ordnance factories located in the region, including Nagpur.

 During the trials in October some of the pieces had not reached the full range, a rocket had burst in the launcher itself. There were issues with the propellant, which have now been resolved, said a source in the ordnance factory organization.
 
 The factories are now ready with a batch of over 100 rockets, which will need an approval from the directorate general of qualify assurance (DGQA) of the Army. The battle-worthiness of the weapon will have to be once again proven, said sources.
 
 Meanwhile, the indigenously developed Dhanush howitzer, built on the lines of the Bofors gun, will be on display at the Republic Day parade. The gun has been developed at the Gun Carriage Factory (GCF), Jabalpur. It is a 155x55 mm calibre gun, which gives better range as against the original Bofors, which was 155x39 mm calibre.
 
 The Army has not yet given the bulk production clearance (BPC) for the Dhanush gun. The GCF will have to make 116 pieces first. This is like a sample batch, on the basis of which the Army may give a bulk order to the ordnance factories. So far, 4-5 guns have been supplied.
 
 Apart from Dhanush, a piece of 155x52 advance artillery gun will also be put on display. The gun has not been inducted by the Army yet.
 
 The development of Dhanush has gone through several hiccups. In 2013, a gun was damaged as the shell burst in the barrel during test fires. This was a major setback for the industrialization and the process was delayed by a year.
 
 Making of the Pinaka rockets too had its own share of problems. Even as the bulk order was received by the ordnance factories in 2007, the production has been put on hold more than once due to various reasons.
 
 
