IMPHAL: The uncharacteristic silence of the militant outfits of the state about the elections is a disconcerting one. While security forces and the   (EC) have welcomed the fact that these outfits have not sounded a boycott call against any party or the election process, reports have emerged that the rebels are keenly interested in the election process. No one, for now, seems to know if this is a good sign or if there is more to it than meets the eye.

 “This time, no one, including militant groups, has given any boycott call (against the election process). That is a good beginning. We are hopeful of a peaceful and successful election,” state chief electoral officer   told TOI. 
 
 In fact, this time, the EC has done away with the system of marking poll booths as hyper-sensitive or sensitive on the basis of threat perception. “This time, we only have critical polling stations and vulnerable pocket habits,” Dewangan said.
 
 Critical polling stations are those in which a single candidate has garnered more than 90% of the votes in the past, which are remote and have a past record of poll-related clashes. Of the 2,794 polling stations across the 60 assembly constituencies, 838 have been marked critical. Vulnerable pocket habitats are dynamic in nature — the numbers keep changing on the basis of the ground situation on a given day.
 
 The cause of concern, however, can be found with a cursory look at the past elections in the state. The National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) has been boycotting every election in the state. Militants had raised a boycott call against the ruling Congress in the last assembly elections in 2012. The last Lok Sabha election in 2014, too, had seen militants boycotting Congress. There were no incidents of violence reported, however, as the state was put under a tight security blanket.
 
 “This year, there has been no activity of the militants, compared to the last year and the preceding ones. There haven’t been any boycott calls either,” a key security source said.
 
 All rebel camps are situated just 20 km inside neighbouring Myanmar. The security source, associated with counter-insurgency operations, said there have been no tell-tale signs of the possibility of disturbances by any of the rebel groups so far. No cross-border movement on the India-Myanmar border, which is porous but under surveillance, has been reported. Neither have there been any radio intercepts nor any human intelligence inputs.
 
 The big question doing the rounds, then, is why the militants are showing a keen interest in the election this time. Could militancy be exerting an invisible influence on the big electoral fight? Are the militants throwing their weight behind a particular party or preferred candidates? No one seems to have any answers as of now.
 
 The militancy theatre in the state is dominated by the CorCom (Coordination Committee), an umbrella body of United National Liberation Front, People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak, People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (Progressive) and Revolutionary People’s Front — all of which want secession from India and have their bases in Myanmar along the border with India. The NSCN (I-M) also wields influence in the Naga-dominated hill districts. The Kuki-Chin militant outfits, which are under Suspension of Operations (SOO) with the government, may even vote in this election.
 
 The unfenced India-Myanmar border cannot be sealed. The EC has, however, asked the Assam Rifles, manning the border and the border gate at Moreh, to seal the gate on the polling days — March 4 and 8. The inter-state borders — with Assam, Nagaland and Mizoram — will also be sealed, but this move is directed at preventing the flow of liquor to the state, which has imposed prohibition orders.
 
 The EC is prepared, though. It is bringing in 250 companies of central paramilitary forces — comprising 25,000 men from Uttar Pradesh to Manipur — solely for election duty. This is the highest deployment in the state, that already has the concentration of security forces in the country engaged in counter-insurgency operations under the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. The additional forces are expected to reach the state on February 25, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make his first public election campaign address at Imphal.
 
 
