For someone with limited exposure to the inner lives of men, American author   makes quite a statement with a gay man as protagonist in her second  . A harrowing tale of four men in New York who try to stick together through thick and thin, it is a refreshing look at modern-day friendships. The author of the book which was the shortlisted for the Man Booker prize in 2015 speaks to   about love, racial integration, identity, and what it means to be happy in the 21st century.

 
 
 I was looking at the changing nature of friendships over time. Decades ago, a friend was someone to whom you put the best foot forward.But over time, friendships have become more intimate. More people are choosing to remain single and in this setting, friendships become an important source of companionship. This can be seen in any urban setting world over. In pro vincial towns, marriage and children are still for the most part a foregone conclusion.
 
 
 
 This was intentional. I wanted to make this book nothing more than the emotional lives of the characters. If I had pegged the story to a certain time in history it would have taken away the intimacy the reader had with the characters. Also, the book is less about New York and more about the qualities of people who move to a big city. It is the ambitious, driven and materialistic dreamers who move there. Also it shows that New York is far from being a melting pot. Integration depends on the social circles you move in. In circles where money, success and position matter more, gender, sexuality and ethnicity take a backseat.
 
 
 
 I went to an all-female university and then I entered an industry dominated by women -publishing.So from the time I was 17 to about 25 years I had very little exposure to men. So I began observing them closely, almost like an anthropologist.
 
 
 
 A privileged life does not necessarily translate to happiness. I think everyone has a little bit of darkness in them.I wanted to write about a character who had a shortcoming and never got better. I wanted to see what suspense and tension could be created in a story where there is no redemption.
 
 
 
 I don't think my protagonist is looking for happiness.He is looking for security and normalcy. These senses come to you when you are young. If you cannot feel a sense of security as a child, you will never be able to attain it as an adult. Jude may have pursued happiness if he found security. But happiness in itself is very abstract and often we get lost in pursuing it. We all look for it and yet no one knows what it really is. And in some cases, the endless pursuit may even ruin people.
 
 
 What I love about Indian authors is how they have taken colonial English and made it their own -a vibrant language with eclectic flavours and rhythms.My favourites are   and   to name only a few.
 
