MUMBAI: In an unprecedented incident, umpire  , who was in the spotlight for a controversial decision involving England batsman   in the second T20 game decided to 'recuse' himself from on-field umpiring duties in Wednesday's T20 decider at the M Chinnaswamy stadium. The 46-year-old Hyderabadi instead discharged the duties of the third umpire, while Nitin Menon - who made his umpiring debut in the first of the three match T20 series in Kanpur - took the field with Anil Chaudhary.

 The official reason for Shamshuddin's withdrawal was that he was not '100 per cent fit Shamshuddin has been feeling the heat of a bad decision in the Nagpur game, when he failed to spot an inside edge and gave Joe Root out LBW at a crucial juncture. The visitors, who at that point needed eight runs to win off the last balls, subsequently lost the game, leaving England skipper   to criticize the umpiring and call for the Decision Review System (DRS) to be introduced in T20s.
 
 TOI spoke to two eminent former umpires who offered contrasting views on the episode "What Morgan did is against the ethics of the International Cricket Council (ICC). He should have been fined by the match referee He can't openly criticise the umpires. Root himself ha umpires. Root himself had said that like players even umpires can make mistakes. I'm surprise that the match referee didn't take any action against Morgan. The   should ask him why he didn't do so. Once this type of an attitude starts against the umpires, the game goes to the dogs," Lamente Piloo Reporter, who officiated in international cricket from 1984-1993 (14 Tests & 22 ODIs).
 
 "Today (Wednesday), KL Rahul was out of a no-ball. Should   come out in the field and tell the umpire that he was wrong What will happen to the game if you allow this If he had issues with the umpiring, the captain could have put it in his report. In my time, the players never criticised the umpires. It was only the press which did so," Reporter added.
 
 However,  , who stood in 14 Tests and one ODI between 1973-83, said "England complained because they suffered. The same set of umpires are making mistake at both domestic and international level. It is high time their performance is assessed." 
 
