PATNA: The Centre and the state government on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to promote regional air connectivity in the state by expanding and strengthening the existing seven   under the   (RACS).

 The seven existing airports are Patna, Bihta, Gaya, Purnia, Raxaul, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur. The MoU was signed in the Samvad auditorium at CM Secretariat in the presence of CM   and Union civil aviation minister Ganapati Raju. Speaking on the occasion, Raju said he sees “golden promise” and future for the spread of civil aviation activities in the state.
 
 The CM said the scope of expansion and growth of civil aviation in the state has been showing promising signs, as business and trade activities have been increasing and people are also interested in improved means of transport to access strategically located regional towns. Besides, flyers would also be able to reach and access northern districts of Jharkhand, he added.
 
 Nitish said the tourism industry in the state has continued to show growth, as footfall of domestic tourists has recorded an increase of 80%, while the number of foreign tourists increased by 9%. The CM said it had become imperative to pay increased attention to promotion, expansion and strengthening of the Gaya airport, because tourists from all over the country and abroad visit this place of religious significance.
 
 The CM stressed on the need to begin work fast with regard to the Patna and Bihta airports, saying state government would do whatever was possible for timely completion of Bihta airport and other projects under RACS.
 
 Earlier, state cabinet secretariat department principal secretary  , during the power point presentation on the land for the airports, said 126 acres of land had been acquired for Bihta airport, of which 108 acres would be transferred to   (AAI) in the next three months. The state government, he said, has sanctioned acquisition of 50 acres of land for Purnia airport. 
 
 Joint secretary in the civil aviation ministry Usha Padhi also gave her presentation on the state and scope of regional air connectivity in the state, while S Raheja, associated with AAI, presented detailed report on the seven airports.
 
 Among those present at the MoU signing event were state chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh and CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar.
 
 
