NEW DELHI: Indian High Commissioner in   Gautam Bambawale met   foreign secretary Tehmina Janjua on Friday in connection with the case of retired Indian navy officer  , who has been given the death penalty by an army court.

 India conveyed to Pakistan that it will appeal the order against Jadhav. The Indian ambassador demanded two copies of chargesheet and the judgment delivered by the Pakistan military court against Jadhav.
 
 "I have asked for a certified copy of the chargesheet as well as the judgement in the death sentence of Kulbhushan 
 ," Bambawale said.
 
 The High Commissioner also raised the issue of consular access to Jadhav. This is the 14th time India has sought consular access to Jadhav, who had been accused of espionage by Pakistan.
 
 "They have denied our request for consular access 13 times (in the last one year). I have again requested the Pakistan foreign secretary to give access to 
  so that we can appeal," he said.
 
 Countering the demands, Pakistan's foreign secretary said that since this is a case of espionage, India can't be allowed consular access to the condemned man.
 
 Bambawale dismissed the claim and said under international law, access to Jadhav must be granted.
 
 Sources in New Delhi said apart from diplomatic options, India will also explore legal remedies permitted under Pakistan legal system including 
 's family appealing against the verdict.
 
 Jadhav was arrested in March last year, "for his involvement in espionage and sabotage activities against Pakistan," according to a statement released by the Pakistan armed forces.
 
 The statement said Jadhav confessed that he was tasked by   (RAW), to "plan, coordinate and organize espionage/sabotage activities aiming to destabilise and wage war against Pakistan."
 
 A military court in Pakistan earlier this week found Jadhav guilty on two counts of espionage and sentenced him to death. However, defence minister   had said Jadhav has the right to appeal against his death sentence within 60 days.
 
 India has strongly objected to the sentencing, saying consular officials were denied access to Jadhav during his trial.
 
 Foreign minister   had issued a stern warning to Pakistan, saying that Islamabad should be wary of taking such an extreme step as it could result in damaging the bilateral relations between the already hostile neighbors and vowed to go "out of the way" to save Jadhav.
 
