CHENNAI: Five days after staying the tender process for Rs 329-crore LED   fittings project on a PIL filed by an anti-corruption forum, the Madras high court on Monday acceded to a government request for an early hearing.

 The first bench of Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice RMT Teekaa Raman, which had originally granted the interim order of stay for a period of two weeks, agreed to hear the case on Tuesday (April 4) after advocate general of Tamil Nadu R Muthukumaraswamy sought an advance hearing. The advocate general mentioned the matter on Monday morning when the court assembled for the day.
 
 On March 29, the bench stayed the tender process after C Karthikeyan of the Federation of Anti-Corruption Team India filed a PIL bringing to the court’s notice the fact that bidders were being made to get evaluated by the   though it had no accredited facilities. The project, fully funded by the Centre, envisages purchase of 9.06 lakh streetlight fittings through e-tender and e-bids to be conducted by 31 district collectors in the state.
 
 According to the PIL-petitioner, it was illegal on the part of the authorities to insist that quality of   bulbs must be evaluated by Chennai Corporation’s electrical department. Calling it as illegal and saying it will lead to a lot of irregularities, it said the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) was the sole competent authority to test and certify such samples.
 
 The Chennai Corporation’s electrical department was not equipped with instruments to conduct tests and it was not authorised by the NABL, the PIL said, adding that all prospective bidders had already got their samples tested by the NABL and the same could not be tested by an incompetent authority such as electrical department of Chennai Corporation.
 
 Another clause which mandated bidders to submit proof that they had completed similar type of work, not less than 50% of the value of the bid under a single agreement, for a state or central government department/boards/government undertaking/local bodies, will qualify only those bidders who had already participated in such projects, it said. 
 
 “Most of the bidders would be unable to participate in the project because of this condition which would create a monopoly among bidders,” it said.
 
 
