SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister   on Tuesday accused the enforcement directorate (ED), which has attached his farmhouse in Delhi, of concealing facts and giving out a “concocted” value of the assets seized by it just to “sensationalise” the matter. He has also termed the action being taken against him as a well-planned conspiracy to destroy his public image in the run-up to assembly polls.

 The ED on Monday had attached the Rs 27.29 crore Delhi farmhouse of Virbhadra in a money laundering case.
 
 In a statement issued here, he said while one could expect political opponents to distort facts to derive mileage, it was a matter of grave concern that a responsible government agency was behaving in such a manner. He said the Centre had been using its full might to harass and   elected government and the ED and CBI were being misused to probe “bogus” charges against him. He alleged that an officer with  , Vinod Sharma (deputy director of income tax, Faridabad) was used without jurisdiction to create fictitious survey reports and dossiers under instructions from the  , Chandigarh, with malafide intent to help create false cases using ED and CBI.
 
 He said that farmland in question was purchased for only Rs 1.20 crore by the company Maple, promoted by his son Vikramaditya Singh. Virbhadra said he gave Rs 90 lakh to his son from his personal account through proper banking channels and the remaining amount was paid from his personal accrued money. He said his family took friendly loans amounting to Rs 5.90 crore from V Chandrasekhar and the amount had been paid back in full with interest long time back and accounted for tax appropriately.
 
 “It is on record that the said property was purchased for Rs 1.20 crore, but the ED gave its value at Rs 27 crore. It turns out that assistant commissioner of income tax, New Delhi, Ajay Singh, whose wife is a BJP MLA from UP, was assigned the duty of assessing Maple, who instead of assessing the revenue, made malafide conclusions that the property was worth Rs 27 crore,” Virbhadra said in the statement. Now, the ED was using the baseless assessment figure to defame him, he said adding, all this was a matter of record, yet he and his family members were being persecuted using multiple central agencies since 2013.
 
 Virbhadra said the extent to which these agencies were being misused could be judged from the fact that even marriages of daughters and helping son to build a legitimate career was being construed as a criminal offence and draconian laws were being made applicable in matters which were of revenue nature and non-cognizable. He said that ED was doing all this as part of a plan as even before a legal notice of provisional attachment of the property was served to the company, the media was unofficially briefed about the action.
 
 The CM said the same issue was raised by BJP leader Arun Jaitley during the 2012 assembly elections to derive political gains but the people outrightly rejected his unfounded allegations and voted the Congress party to power. Virbhadra said he would take appropriate legal remedies to contest all persecution and not only come out clean but also politically victorious as the people of Himachal have full faith in him.
 
