NASHIK: Talking about its plans for the education sector in the city, the   has promised to make students studying the civic schools tech-savvy if elected to power. 

 Addressing a rally at Ambad on Monday evening, Yuva Sena chief   said the Shiv Sena would take the initiative to start digital classrooms in the civic schools.
 
 “Moreover, our party will provide tablets to the students of standard VIII to X of these schools. It will help in reducing the weight of the school bags that students carry to school and back home daily,” he said. 
 
 Lambasting the Bharatiya Janata Party, Thackeray said the party has been making tall promises but was unable to keep them. “Just like the colour of the new currency notes is fading, so is the popularity of the BJP. We have taken an important decision to fight and win the   single-handedly,” he said.
 
 He added that unlike any other party, the Shiv Sena was always at the disposal of the people round the clock. Ridiculing the ruling Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Thackeray said despite being in power many of its corporators have deserted the party to join other parties. 
 
 He declared that if Sena comes to power in NMC, the party would develop the Pelican Park in CIDCO area within six months. He lamented that the park was not developed as it should have been. 
 
 District Sena chief Vijay Karanjkar alleged that three Nashik BJP MLAs have ruined the city. “They are MLAs and should have fought for the city on the water issue. After we agitated, they gave a letter to the chief minister and even in issue of Development Control and Promotion Rule (DCPR) was lingering for the last 27 months,” he said. 
 
 City chief Ajay Boraste alleged that the people faced water woes due to the insensitivity of the BJP leaders. “It was for the first time our water was given to Aurangabad to serve the beer factories there during drought. Many BJP leaders have beer and sugar factories and the one-time water supply is due to that reason,” he alleged. 
 
 “If demonetistation was meant to stop terrorism, then why did terrorist attacks take place in Kashmir two days back and today,” Aaditya said. 
 
