KOLKATA: A day after senior officers of   visited   where eight persons lost their lives in an early morning accident, the district police have been asked to compile a list of the most accident-prone spots on both state and national highways — the focus being the Palsit-Dankuni stretch on Durgapur Expressway.

 In a decision that has the backing of the state transport department, the police will soon call tenders to set up   cameras and watchtowers at these specific spots and introduce measures that can limit the speed of all vehicles. The speed limit on highways is 80kmph. Long-term measures include introducing an integrated traffic management (ITM) on highways. 
 
 Some of the recent   on the Durgapur Expressway involved Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee, singer Kalikaprasad Bhattacharya and RPF inspector Rajen Kumar Singh and his family. A total of 24 people have lost their lives this year till Sunday. The NHAI has stated that a total of 832 accidents have been reported between 2014-16, killing 101 people and grievously injuring 817 others in the Palsit-Dankuni stretch.
 
 IGP (traffic) Manoj Verma had on Sunday assured the locals that police were serious to check the accidents. “I’m finding out the reasons behind such frequent crashes. We will take some short as well as long-term measures. The state will introduce the integrated traffic management (ITM) to nab traffic violators, who will be issued challans automatically. Nearly 100 watchtowers will be installed along highways in Bengal,” Verma said.
 
 Sources said that a study of the accidents on the expressway revealed that most of these accidents happened due to overspeeding. Amazingly, the maximum accidents took place on the four-lane stretch because of overspeeding. 
 
 It has also been learnt that in order to check accidents on highways, more display boards will be set up along with relevant data to make people aware about hazards of rash and reckless driving. Thus, drivers will have to follow a particular speed at specific locations. At the same time, the police will ensure that immediate steps are taken if anyone is caught flouting traffic norms.
 
 
