MANALI: The  , which considered to be one of the  , will officially start from July 15-30 under   and amidst   and even snowfall.

 As this 32-km steep climb starting at an altitude of 6,000ft from Singhad and ending at 18,000-ft-high Shrikhand tests physical and mental stamina of the pilgrims and has claimed several lives in the past, the district administration is leaving no stone unturned for safe execution of the pilgrimage. All those interested to go for this Yatra will have to undergo medical test and only physically fit persons will be allowed to take part. 
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus, who is also president of the Shrikhand Mahadev Yatra Trust, said registration were mandatory for all pilgrims. “A registration fee of Rs 100 would be charged from each pilgrim after medical check-up. Rescue and medical teams would be stationed at various locations. A team of experts is directed to go till Shrikhand and check the route if it is safe for pilgrims. All the dangerous spots would be repaired,” he said.
 
 Police teams will ensure safety and security of the pilgrim. The trust and many volunteers are pitching tents for night halt at many places. As there is a high possibility of altitude sickness, oxygen cylinders will be available at some locations. Also, a team of doctors will be ready to handle any medical emergency. Anni sub-divisional magistrate, tehsildar, officials from many other departments will keep an eye on the yatra.
 
 The 72-ft-high lingam of Shrikhand Mahadev similar to that of Amarnath is attracting a large number of pilgrims. Most of the pilgrims come from Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. The four-day-long yatra passes through glaciers, high peaks, deep valleys, narrow trails with unprotected gorges and rivulets. Pilgrims come till Jaon in vehicles and start 3km on foot trek till Singhad base camp. Singhad to Bheemdwar is 22km trek and then Parvati Bagh is further 2km ahead and Shrikhand lingam is 5km beyond.
 
 
 
 
 There is no information about Abhishek Kharbanda, the 22-year-old youth from Chandigarh who had gone missing from   since July 3. Police and local search teams are combing the region to get some clues about him.
 
 The state government authorities had also tried to search him by helicopter but inclement weather conditions are not allowing helicopter to operate sortie. The government chopper, which had reached Mandi on Sunday, could not land in Kullu due poor visibility. The ground teams are searching for him since July 6.
 
 Anni deputy superintendent of police Baldev Thakur said the cops were still searching for Abhishek. “An army helicopter is also attempting to reach the region for an aerial search. So far we are clueless,” he said.
 
 Abhishek along with four of his friends had left for Shrikhand Mahadev on June 30. He had stopped at a place near Bheemdwar while his friends kept descending. he went missing soon after.
 
 
