MUMBAI: Giving a clean chit to its own employees, the civic body has blamed a group of locals from Elphinstone Road for illegally opening the manhole cover in which gastroenterologist Dr   fell and drowned on the heavy rain-day of August 29. Five men have been arrested from a nearby chawl on the charge of causing death by negligence, while a sixth suspect is yet to be traced.

 Over three weeks after the incident, the BMC’s inquiry report on Dr Amarapurkar’s death was submitted to municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta late evening on Thursday. A copy was given to mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar. 
 
 The report is based on footage from several   cameras, eyewitness statements, and what BMC staff from the G-South ward said. 
 
 It concludes that a group of four to six people removed the manhole cover possibly to drain out rainwater. The inquiry committee said it tried to meet Dr Amarapurkar’s wife, but she declined.
 
 According to CCTV footage obtained from a shop close to the site of the incident, the committee has inferred that the same group of people who opened several manholes also opened the one in which the doctor fell, despite it being chained to the manhole chamber. The G-South ward, where the spot lies, received 320.82mm of rainfall that day, the highest of any area as per the BMC’s automatic weather station.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner  , who headed the inquiry, said, “As per the BMC’s protocol, manhole covers are not opened during the monsoon. If they are, it is always manned. The BMC’s labour staff opened a manhole cover on   (Lower Parel) the same day around 10pm and closed it around 11.30pm. The staff showed diligence in opening, manning and closing the covers. Besides, the same day, owing to the sea link being shut for traffic, our staff were continuously monitoring the situation in that area and attending to complaints.”
 
 The report points out the list of flooding complaints at Senapati Bapat Marg, where the doctor drowned, and how there were no complaints of flooding at the spot for four years.
 
 Neap tide is known to have caused prolonged and heavy flooding in most areas of the G-South ward. Neap tide is when the difference in low and high tides is little; during that, the discharge of storm water in the sea is very slow. The flood gates at the pumping stations were hence not opened, which led to a slow receding of floodwaters form the city.
 
 The inquiry report has raised a stink over the PIL filed by traders on August 29, seeking a police case of negligence against the civic chief and for Rs 50 lakh in compensation to be given to any NGO (for the public good). “After going through various documents, CCTV footage, statements… and after analysis, it is felt by the inquiry committee that no civic staff can be held responsible for (the doctor’s drowning). It is unfortunate that without going into the facts and the merit of the case, the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) has made unsubstantiated and unfounded allegations against the (BMC) to malign the image of the institution. This fact needs to be inquired into,” states the report.
 
 FRTWA president Viren Shah reiterated that the incident was one of civic negligence. “Even if some locals opened the manhole cover, the BMC’s area in-charge should have ensured that it was put back. The BMC, in its reply filed in court to their PIL, said its officials did visit the spot that day. So then they should have noticed that the manhole cover was open.”
 
 The committee has put out a public advertisement calling for suggestions for manhole improvements, but has received only two responses—from its own employees—both about putting RFID (radio-frequency identification) tags on manhole covers.
 
 
