NEW DELHI: Ever wondered how your latest sedan or SUV equipped with the advanced technology, security system and electronic keys was so easily stolen? With vehicle thefts skyrocketing — 105 vehicles are stolen in the capital every day — Delhi Police seems to have realised how.

 While busting a gang of car thieves from Sambhal, UP, the cops not only recovered a dozen cars, but also learnt the modus operandi adopted by such syndicates. After retrieving various models, including a Toyota Fortuner, Hyundai Creta and Verna, Honda City and a Maruti Swift, the police got the four arrested suspects to reveal how they bypassed the electronic locks, GPS scanners and electronic ignition mechanism of these vehicles.
 
 Romil  , DCP (Southeast), disclosed that the four men used videos available on the internet and gadgets bought from e-commerce sites to deceive the engine control module (ECM), which controls the electronics of modern cars. Aamir, Safruddin, Sagir Ahmed and   was each a specialist on a particular model. Over the years, the gang created access to more than 50 members who could steal cars on demand.
 
 The quartet was arrested after a team led by KP Singh, ACP (Operations), learnt about their plans to deliver a stolen Verna in New Friends Colony. A group headed by Inspector   trapped the suspects. 
 
 While Aamir specialised in Maruti vehicles and Toyota Innovas and Fortuners, Safruddin was an expert on Hyundai cars. A gang member selected a target in daytime, clicked photographs and sent it to Ahmed, the ringleader, who passed on the information to the respective experts.
 
 Detailing how the thieves made off with Toyota vehicles, Baaniya said that they drove up to a target and began by severing the horn wiring under the bonnet. If the car’s indicators started to flash, they retreated to their car and waited till the lights went off. The then broke the rear quarter glass and entered the car. Once inside, they drilled into the ignition point and connected the wires to the alternative ECM they had brought. On a laptop, they scanned the ECM program and bypassed it to turn the ignition on with a screwdriver. 
 
 Safruddin confessed that after entering a Hyundai car by breaking its rear glass panel, the ignition point was similarly scanned. Then, using a chip on a duplicate key, the thieves re-programed the key, taking care to install a new glass panel before driving away.
 
