Several hundreds of kids between two and three years will be initiated into the world of letters in the city, as part of Vidyarambham. This year,   or ezhuthiniruthu as it is popularly known in Kerala, falls on September 30. Temples and some of the educational institutions have already made arrangements for the Hindu tradition observed on the   day, where children are initiated into the characters of the syllabary. 
 K Unnikrishnan, a Malayali settled in Chennai says that Vidyarambham is not confined to only Malayalis in the city. “Over a period of time, irrespective of the place of origin, parents have been bringing their children for the ritual,” he says.
 As part of the tradition, children below three years are given a head bath and made to wear new clothes. They are either taken to a nearby temple or an educational institution of repute, where the chief priest, well-known educationists or writers write Om on their tongue using a gold ring, while chanting the mantra, Om hari sri ganapataye namah, Avikhnamasthu, Sree Guruve Namah, Sree Saraswathi Sahayam, meaning Salutations to Hari (Lord Vishnu), Shree (the Goddess of prosperity), and Lord Ganapathy. 
 Later, they are made to write the alphabets on rice spread on a decorated plate, using their fingers. It’s believed that children initiated into learning on the auspicious day of Vijaya Dasami do well in studies and become prosperous.
 While many parents take their kids to temples dedicated to  , in many parts of Kerala, irrespective of the community or religion, Vidyarambham is conducted even in churches. “Kollur Mookambika temple is famous for Vidyarambham and scores of children assemble there for Vijaya Dasami. However, in Chennai, several temples, educational institutions and even media houses conduct the ceremony,” says Satya Bhama, a resident of Egmore. 
 She adds, “Vidyarambham highlights the importance of education. Our ancestors considered education as a power and this festival symbolises the same.”
  temple in the city is abuzz with activities related to Vijaya Dasami. “Nearly thousand children perform Vidyarambham in the temple and this year will be no different,” says a source. He adds, “Ten priests of the temple will be initiating kids into learning on Dasami. The programme will start at 7 am and is expected to continue till noon.” Though there is no registration fee or advance booking for Vidyarambham, parents are requested to bring a plate for the child to write the syllables. 
 “We have about 450 plates with us. But we request parents to bring their own plates so that the waiting time can be reduced. We charge `30 per child and all other materials like rice, prasad, notebooks and pencils are given free to the kids,” he says. The other temples that are known for Vidyarambham include the Ayyappan temples in Perambur, KK Nagar and Egmore. Similarly, on Anderson Road and Velachery, educational institutions have organized Vidyarambham. 
 Manoj Kumar K, a resident of Chetpet, is excited that his daughter Kalyani will be participating in Vidyarambham on Saturday. He says, “It’s a joyous moment for all of us in the family. Though we initially thought of taking her to an institution, we have changed the plan now. We will be doing Vidyarambham at Mahalingapuram temple as it is considered more auspicious. Later, we plan to take a detour of the places where similar programmes are organised.”
 Unnikrishan says that many parents prefer temples this year as certain planetary movements are considered to clash with the Vijaya Dasami day. “It is believed that if you perform auspicious rituals in temples, it can nullify the ill-effects of bad planetary alignments. Hence, many are opting to visit the temples, this time for Vidyarambham,” he says. 
 
