A 24-year-old manager at IBM’s   office had gone to a   Little did she know that the ride back home with a fellow manager would turn out to be a nightmare. After an argument, she was literally dragged by the hair and forced to sit in the car by  , who was dropping her home around 3 am on Tuesday.

 But, despite Patil’s aggressive actions and the victim’s insistence, the Mangaldas police chowky refused to register an FIR and simply lodged a complaint for a non-cognisable (NC) offence. Narrating her ordeal, the woman told Pune Mirror, “There were four of us in the car — Patil, my two teammates and me. Since Patil was intoxicated, he was driving rather rashly. We requested him to slow down, but Patil did not listen and even bumped into an autorickshaw. We finally got him to stop outside St Laurn hotel at Koregoan Park and ordered for a private taxi. While I was calling for the cab, he snatched the phone away from me, attacked my two teammates and even pulled me by my hair.”
 
 The victim alleged that Patil also slapped one of her teammates and punched the other one. “When I left from there, my phone was still with Patil. He kept calling my teammates from my number, telling them that I meant more to him than his wife and that he would do anything to be with me. He also said that he would only return my phone if I agreed to go out with him the following day,” she added.
 
 Horrified by what had happened, she got into the cab as soon as it arrived and left the place. First thing in the morning, she went to the Dehu Road police station to register a complaint. After hearing her out, they advised her to go to Koregaon Park police station. When she reached there, she was asked to go to the Koregoan Park chowky and cops there suggested that she visit the Mangaldas Chowky.
 
 At the police chowky, even after explaining all that had happened and trying to get the cops to register an FIR, the woman had to settle for an NC. “I was told by the cops there that this was the protocol. They said they would investigate the case and then file an FIR if needed,” she rued.
 
 When Mirror asked senior police inspector Rajendra Patil of Koregaon Park police station why an FIR had not been registered, he said, “The girl came to the police station hours after the incident took place. She should have come immediately, given that the incident happened quite close to the police station itself. As far as filing molestation charges are concerned, even the intention matters and this can be verified only after we talk to Patil. But, we are investigating the issue and will turn it into an FIR if needed.” But why was he not charged with drink driving? The cop insisted, “To apply those sections, we have to conduct medical tests. And hours had passed after the incident to actually do that.”
 
 When Mirror got in touch with Abhijit Patil, he argued, “I don’t know why my colleague would want to falsely accuse me of something that I have not done. As far as the incident is concerned, she slapped me initially. But I did not even raise my hand on her. I am a married man and have a daughter, too. I respect women and would not even think of hitting them. We have been friends for a while now. More importantly, there was no reason for me to behave like that with her.”
 
 
