NANJAGUD/GUNDLUPET: Few bypolls have been as keenly contested or attracted as much attention as those to the   and Gundlupet assembly segments, scheduled on Sunday. This is probably the first time that the state is witnessing such a fierce contest in a byelection since 2006, when chief minister   contested a bypoll from the Chamundeshwari constituency in the aftermath of his departure from the JD(S), a party he had been with for more than two decades.

 Neither the Congress nor the BJP is likely to have it easy in either constituency. Both parties are playing the caste card, while sympathy and betrayal are among the other issues that are playing a vital role in the elections.
 
 His acquaintance with the region for more than three decades means that the CM knows both these constituencies intimately, an advantage for the Congress. Should the Congress, which held both the seats, retain them, it would indicate that its support base among the   and dalits, communities that could swing the elections, is intact in the Old Mysuru region. Meanwhile, a victory in either of these constituencies, citadels of the Congress, would give a fillip to the BJP ahead of the 2018 assembly elections. “We’ve never registered a win in both constituencies, where Lingayats and dalits are in majority. It’s a tough fight,” said BJP MP Ananth Kumar.
 
 Two Nayak leaders – BJP’s B Sriramulu and small-scale industries minister Ramesh L Jarkiholi – too are looking at these elections as an opportunity to establish their popularity in the community.
 
 
 
 
 Although many Congress leaders have been vocal in their criticism of former minister   for deserting the party, and joining the BJP, Siddaramaiah has eschewed any personal remarks against his former party colleague. “While the bypoll at Gundlupet was inevitable, there was no need for an election at Nanjangud. This is just to satisfy the ego of one individual,” the CM said. However, Prasad and other BJP leaders have not held back in attacking Siddaramaiah.
 
 Higher education minister Basavaraj Rayaraddi, in charge of Nanjangud, said, “The BJP questioned the CM on the floor of the house for not dropping ministers like Prasad for non-performance. Now, they have adopted Prasad as their candidate.”
 
 The current situation is different to the one that existed when Prasad quit the Congress and joined the BJP. The momentum that he had in the initial days has now reduced. Of the 2 lakh voters in the constituency, dalits and Lingayats make up nearly 50,000, while  , Uppars,   and Muslims constitute the rest of the demographic.
 
 A dalit icon, Prasad’s strong voter base among the community in the earlier polls essayed a vital role in ensuring his victory. However, the dalit votes are likely to be divided between the BJP and the Congress this time around. Moreover, the Lingayats still nurture a grudge against Prasad, owing to his role in the 1993 dalit-Lingayat clashes. Wife of the late M Mahadev, who was an influential Lingayat leader and a former minister, has been campaigning for the Congress.
 
 Prasad’s protégé in the Congress, Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayan roped in Kalale Keshavamurthy of the JD(S) to oppose the senior leader. Keshavamurthy has lost by narrow margins in earlier elections.
 
 For BJP state president BS  , who brought Prasad into the party, the Nanjangud election is a matter of prestige.
 
 
 
 
 Having given the ticket to Geetha Mahadev Prasad, wife of the late minister HS Mahadev Prasad, the Congress is hoping to ride on the sympathy wave to victory. On the other hand, the BJP has opted for CS Niranjan Kumar, who unsuccessfully contested against Mahadev Prasad twice. Interestingly, his father CM Shivamalappa too made two unsuccessful bids against the dalit icon.
 
 Gundlupet constituency boasts the largest Lingayat population in Chamarajanagar district, with 60,000 of a total of 1.98 lakh voters belonging to the community. Dalits (50,000) and the OBCs are the other numerically dominant voter bases in the constituency. Given that Gundlupet has more women voters (99,707 women to 99,155 men), both parties have deployed some of their leading women leaders in the segment. While MP Shobha Karandlaje is leading the BJP’s troops, energy minister DK Shivakumar has ensured there is at least one woman at every booth.
 
 Sources in the Congress admitted that the BJP had a headstart in Gundlupet on the ground. However, the Congress’s calculation is that, even if the Lingayat votes get divided between the two parties, the party is hopeful of bagging the dalit and OBC votes. Mahadev Prasad’s contribution to recharging the groundwater reserves in the constituency is likely to give Geetha an advantage. Niranjan, meanwhile, has asked voters to give an opportunity to someone new, given that the constituency was represented by two leaders – KS Nagarathnamma and Mahadev Prasad – for five decades.
 
 
