Jaipur: The crime branch of Jaipur police commissionerate on Thursday busted a   involved in cheating over 250 youths on the pretext of giving them jobs with reputed firms and companies.

 The accused used emails and fake company monograms to cheat people from Jamnagar (Gujarat), Rajasthan and other neighboring states. Two youths were arrested in the case after close surveillance and gathering technical evidence.
 
 On Wednesday in a complaint to the police, a youth pursuing an engineering course alleged that he had received an email on February 11, claiming that he was selected by the Honda group and was asked to appear for a job interview for the Tapukara-based plant of the group. “On Monday, two persons interviewed the youth. They took Rs 40,000 from him which they claimed was processing fee for the job interview,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The victim approached the police and registered a case at Vaishali Nagar police station. A case under various sections of the IPC has been registered against the accused.
 
 “The crime branch wing of the Jaipur police commissionerate was assigned the task to collect technical evidence. After receiving details such as IP address and location, the team zeroed in on the two youths,” said a senior police officer of the commissionerate.
 
 “The accused, identified as Kanaram (30) and Raguveer Singh (19), were involved in sending these mails to gullible youths who were looking for jobs on online websites,” said Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police.
 
 Police said that both the accused had good family background and were well educated.
 
 After primary interrogation, the accused confessed to posing as HR manager of various companies and sending emails using fake monograms of companies and promising interviews.
 
 “When aspirants came for interviews, they were told that they were selected. They would then demand Rs 25,000 to Rs 40,000 as proceeding fee,” said an officer.
 
 So far, during interrogation, it was found that the gang had cheated over 100 youths. “There is a possibility that there are other members in the gang who too are into defrauding people promising jobs,” the officer added.
 
 
