KANPUR: After rearing lion cubs,   vets have now remained successful in hand-rearing two   - both of whom belong to different species and are rare and protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. For the first time since zoo's inception, the vets here have hand-fed the week (7 days) old chicks of Barn Owl and Jungle Owl. These chicks had been handed over to Kanpur zoo some two months ago by villagers who had spotted them fallen outside the nest. 

 Taking it as a challenge to survive the chicks who were very tiny and about 15 grams in weight, the zoo vets begun feeding them very tiny pieces of meat through long surgical forceps. The meat piece was kept physically in their beak. Water was served to them using a syringe. But this was never an easy task as the chicks used to get terrified when vets ever came close to them. There was always a fear of their dying due to shock because of vets going close to them. Therefore, extra precaution had to be taken while feeding them. 
 
 The sincere efforts ensured that the chicks survived and gradually turned two months old. Now that they have grown up a bit, they have started consuming meat on their own. The meat pieces weighing upto 20 grams are fed to them in their cage. The zoo vets are happy with the growth of the two chicks and hope that soon they would grow up as adults. The chicks have become friendly with the vets and respond to their whistles. The two have become craze amongst the zoo staff. 
 
 "While a bigger chick is Barn Owl, the smaller in the size is the Jungle Owl. Both of them are rare. As the owls are under threat they are therefore, protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. When they had come here they were about 15-20 grams in weight. Their fur coat had also not come. We had to hand-feed them to make them survive. The meat pieces were kept in their beak with full precaution. Their thirst was quinched by water given through syringe. The exercise had to be repeated twice a day. But all this was never easy. We first had to study the way mother owl feeds its chick before applying our tricks to them. These efforts bore fruits for us", said zoo vets   and   while talking to TOI.
 
 On being asked have they ever hand-reared owl chicks before, the vets said that it was for the first time that they had hand-fed owl chicks in an attempt to save their lives as their numbers are already dwindling. They said that the chicks had been handed over to Kanpur zoo by some villagers who had first spotted them and since last two months they were taking care of these chicks who have now started responding. The vets said that the chicks have gained weight and are now hale and hearty. 
 
 Zoo vets admitted that for the first time they have hand-reared owl chicks. Also they did not had a jungle owl in the zoo's animal kingdom. The chick of jungle owl is an addition to the owl family in Kanpur zoo. "The horned owls grow up to gain a big height and weight. They can weigh upto five kgs. Jungle owls are very rare and not easy to find now. Owls are endangered specie of birds", said Dr Singh.
 
 Assistant Conservator of Forest at Kanpur zoo,   informed that Owls form an important part of the ecology system and feed on snakes, rats, ants, termites, pests and insects. "Had there not been owls in our ecology system, snakes, rodents, insects would have increased in an abundant number. They therefore, balance the ecology. They are on the top of the food chain and by this their importance in the ecology could be understood", said senior zoo official. He added that since owls are noctural in nature, they target their prey especially during the night hours. Prasad also said that zoo has a large number of free ranging owls. "Their claws are very strong. Their beak is also sturdy. They can even swallow an entire rodent. Their life span ranges from 15 to 20 years", he said.
 
