THANE: While the under-construction   connecting   and   has brought cheer to residents of the area, deforestation of 25 fully grown trees in the adjoining bio-diversity park has environmentalists worried. 

 With an aim to clear the way for the bridge, the   Municipal Corporation (TMC) uprooted a stretch of the trees that were planted along the border of the phase I of the park. The TMC, in a bid to decongest the bottleneck in Kalwa, began constructing the new bridge that will connect Saket and Manisha Nagar and Kalwa hospital a few months ago. City environmentalists have pointed out that the uprooting of trees has already started having repercussions on the  . 
 
 Clara Correia, zoologist and member of Paryavaran Dakshata Manch, an environmental non government organisation, who lives in the area, said, “I agree that this area has a massive issue of traffic congestion, but the civic body should have done a holistic study of the area and found a way to construct this bridge without uprooting these full grown indigenous trees. When I asked the workers what they were doing with the trees, they said they would be transplanting it. However, when I asked them to show me where it would be replanted, they disappeared.”
 
 Correia added the effect of this is already reflecting on the avifauna here. “According to our   count on May 16, we spotted only 10 bird species in comparison to the 36 spotted in the previous bird count three months ago. There were no bulbuls, kites, parakeets, and other such birds. Some of these birds even had their nests in the uprooted trees.” Civic officials assured citizens and activists that these trees will be replanted in the area once the basic work on the bridge is complete.
 
 “We conducted a survey of the area with the help of the district social forestry department and uprooted only those trees which were blocking the way. These trees were mainly ornamental and flowering trees and will be brought back and replanted in the park once the basic work on the bridge is done,” said a civic official.
 
 “The transplantation process is done very scientifically and every tree uprooted is taken care of with individual attention. We have an 80 per cent survival rate in this arena. If the trees, for some reason, don’t survive the transplantation, we will plant a couple of new saplings in its place,” added additional municipal commissioner Sunil Chavan.
 
 
