NEW DELHI: Perhaps it didn’t require   chief   to spend Monday night in Sanjay Camp in Chanakyapuri to realise that women living in slum clusters do not have proper covered bathing space or that the old the sick suffered due to lack of healthcare facilities. But he did, and rediscovered the everyday woes of slum dwellers. In fact, this was the third iteration of his “reality check visit” to experience the civic amenities in city slums, obviously with an eye on the upcoming civic polls.

 Like his findings in the last two slum clusters he graced — Inderpuri Gas Godown in south Delhi and   jhuggi in west Delhi’s Nangloi — Tiwari found toilets and potable water missing from the homes of around 5,000 people there. Having seen how the women had to cross the railway lines to fetch water, the north-east Delhi MP exclaimed, “I was shocked to see the risk people exposed themselves to while crossing the railway tracks for water.”
 
 Shocked he may have been, but the next morning he left the place simply promising, as politicians do, clean toilets, covered bathing areas, drinking water, mobile health dispensaries and vocational courses for the youngsters there.
 
 Tiwari arrived at Sanjay Camp, where a tent was put up for a public interaction, at 10 pm and began with his party’s pet agenda — demonetisation — urging the slum dwellers to take to the BHIM App and other banking applications. Around midnight, he had dal-bhaat-roti dinner with the children of Saira Bano, a resident, all the while listening to the plaints of the women about the money spent by their menfolk on liquor.
 
 In the morning, he went around the slum cluster and met the residents. During his rounds, Tiwari found that the mobile toilets there were so dirty that residents were forced to defecate in the open. “Congress and AAP have used slum dwellers as a vote bank without caring to improve their life. I will pressure CM to take care of their problems,” was Tiwari’s parting political shot, also an indication that his slum visits would continue well into January.
 
 
