AGRA: Demonetisation, farmer distress and poor living conditions notwithstanding, people of Agra are hopeful. And if the 'silent voter' does, indeed, exist, her voice may only be heard when the election voting machines beep in agreement with their choices. 

 In Agra's nine assembly constituencies, it's hard to predict the electoral verdict. It is, however, almost certain that the BJP that is the chief challenger in almost every constituency in the district. And while some are vocal in their support, many are open in voicing their dissent. A Dalit farmer in Agra Rural reserved constituency, Govind Singh said, "In 2014, we voted for Modi ji in the hope of seeing our fortunes rise. This time, though, I will not vote for him. That's because he did nothing for the farmer. In fact, with demonetisation, he hurt us badly."
 
 Singh might have gone on about how the farmers are now looking for alternatives in the Rashtriya Lok Dal, the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party but for the arrival of Chaudhary Phool Singh, an upper caste Jat. Singh arrives with a pack of young strongmen from the village. And from this point onwards, the Jats outshout the Dalits, and the conversation turns in favour of the BJP The Dalit now fall silent. 
 
  In faraway Etmadpur, the opposite end of the Agra district, the Yadav voter is similarly silenced by the dominant Thakur voices in Barhan village. Here, the upper caste voters are divided in their support for BJP and the local BSP candidate Dharam Pal, who enjoys considerable goodwill in the constituency. Etmadpur is a traditional BSP seat where the BJP is usually never a contender. When former village head Shyambabu Tyagi alleges the incumbent UP government led by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has done nothing to ease the farmer distress in the potato belt, Pappu Yadav, a corner tea stall owner, says he received a cheque of Rs 750 when he lost his crops to a severe drought two years ago. Soon after, Yadav is surrounded by a group of naysayers in the village. Outshouted and outnumbered, he falls into an embarrassed silence. A local stringer, a bystander to the debate, says: "Oonchi jaat waley bolne nahi dete. Waise yahan BSP jeetegi kyonki candidate accha hai. Lekin hum pe pressure hai (BJP se)...thoda help karneki." 
 
 If the BJP's traditional support in urban pockets is eroding, the saffron party is making up by making inroads into the rural terrains where it has not usually held sway. Though there is a dent in popularity in the BJP graph in comparison to the Lok Sabha polls in 2014, people are still hoping that the promise of "acche din" will bear fruit, especially if the BJP wins Uttar Pradesh. "Agar aloo ke daam girte hain, to Modi ji ki kya galti hai? Yahan to aloo ke kisan hames ha hi pareshaan rehire hain," says Ajay Pal Singh, insisting that demonetisation has had no impact of farmers' fortunes. 
 
 
