Mumbai: Departing from the practice of standard payscales across banks, irrespective of size or financial health,   have proposed bank-wise compensation for executives, depending on the strength of each entity.   banks under the aegis of the   ( ) have also proposed wage increases be productivity-linked rather than automatic hikes based on tenure. Unions have opposed both the proposals.

 “Bank-wise settlement and productivity-linked compensation are something that IBA comes up with during the start of every bipartite discussion. Unions are opposed to both of them,” said Devidas Tuljapurkar, joint secretary All India Bank Employees Association ( ). On Tuesday, the IBA had its initial round of discussion with employee associations on  . Public sector banks are trying to bring in the ‘cost to company’ concept that is prevalent in the private sector. The banker’s association plans to make a strong push for a large variable component in the compensation. Like in the pension reform, which was brought in by making it applicable to new employees, they may propose that   be introduced for new hires.
 
 The previous bipartite wage agreement (10th) had resulted in a 15% wage hike and two additional holidays a month as part of the industry-wide settlement. The hike resulted in an additional outgo of Rs 4,725 crore per year for 45 banks that were part of the deal. Although the deal was signed in 2015, it was with retrospective effect from 2012.
 
 According to Devidas Tuljapurkar, joint secretary All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), the government’s proposal to merge public sector banks has added to the uncertainity. “The issue facing banks is that of non-performign assets. How will the merger help,” he said. Tujlapurkar said the merger of SBI’s associates with the parent has resulted in the bank losing business worth Rs 2 lakh crore.“Each bank has a unique culture. You can compel employees to merge but you cannot do the same with customers. With largescale merger of branches more loss of business is likely,” he said.
 
 In Tuesday’s meeting, IBA and unions discussed non-financial demands of employees. Among the demands was one for a five-day week and creches for children of employees. “Unions have asked IBA to start the discussion on finacial demands. IBA has agreed to start the process by the month-end,” said Tuljapurkar.
 
 
