 is seemingly not the kind of person who takes anything for granted — be it the success of his films at the box office or the honourary title of Lieutenant Colonel of the Indian Territorial Army. The superstar maintains that he strives to push the boundaries. 

  His latest movie,  , directed by Major Ravi, has him once again playing an army officer — in fact two — as Colonel Mahadevan in the current timeline and his dad Major Sahadevan during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.
 
  With all of his previous four movies becoming super hits, ask Mohanlal if this film has been scaled up to cash in on the superstar’s appeal, and he says, “Our audience has not seen tank fights and that’s the USP of the film. The powerhouse tanks are showcased along with a good storyline and sentiments. It’s got an emotional layer and is inspired by two Param Vir Chakra recipients — Hoshiar Singh and Arun Khetarpal.”
  His recent movies have had something novel, be it the extensive use of special effects and well-choreographed action scenes in Pulimurugan or shooting in 8K format for the first time in Mollywood in B Unnikrishnan’s upcoming film, Villain.
 
  In those lines, Mohanlal says, “I have been shown driving a lot of vehicles and even piloting an aircraft in my films, but for Beyond Borders, I drove the tank for real in one of the scenes. And I don’t think there’s anyone in Malayalam cinema who has done that (laughs). But that’s where the thrill is; when you are the first one doing it.”
  Mohanlal, however, is quick to clarify that he doesn’t take the privileges of being part of Indian Territorial Army for granted. “For me, it’s a blessing to wear the army uniform. I am fortunate to be part of this fraternity and be able to do what I had wished if I was in the army. To wear the uniform is a luck bestowed to only one in a crore.”
 
  The actor also has strong views about many now resorting to compare the hardships of ordinary citizens with what jawans have to endure on the borders. “See, when people compare waiting in ATM queues to guarding our country’s borders, I think it’s pointless. The person standing in the queue with you is just like you and you are doing it because you need money, because you have a choice. But our jawans endure the adversities as part of their duty and that’s not something that should be taken lightly,” says Mohanlal.
 
  One thing positive to come about while discussing soldiers, the actor says, is that earlier no one was aware of the travails of a jawan. “People were least bothered in the past. But now when people hear about the troops and what they are doing for the country, I like to believe somewhere it sparks patriotism in people.”
  The war-centric films that he has been part of in the Major Mahadevan franchise such as Keerthichakra and Kurukshetra too seemed to have served their bit in igniting the patriotic fervour in the youth, he says.
 “Last November, when I had attended a get-together organised at the army camp in Mahajan, Rajasthan, a young man told me that he joined the Army after watching Keerthichakra. He’s a captain now. Similarly, I met a lady engineer. She too joined the army after watching the movie. She had two sisters and her family initially would not relent. But she convinced them and now she is also a captain,” he says, adding, “It’s not a fashion to join the army. People do it because they are patriotic.”
 
 Does it mean that he believes that he has done his bit for the country as an actor? “I can be part of a lot of social causes but that doesn’t mean I can propel the change. When I support an effort, I can choose to believe that even if one in 100 people benefits from it – I have done my bit. But that’s again pointless. I have done a lot of ad films to spread awareness about organ donation, keeping our cities clean et al, but I have not seen anyone following it up,” Mohanlal explains.
 
 The actor though refuses to blame the people and calls for tweaking the system. “I don’t think anyone wants to take a bribe or litter their surroundings but our system is like that and people have been part of it for so long. If someone, from his childhood, is seeing that it’s okay to give and take bribes, he would see nothing wrong about it. But the same person would not do it in another country because he’s scared of the punishment by the law. So, the prerogative is to correct the system,” concludes Mohanlal. 
 
 
