MUMBAI: Two days after a driver was found dead at his house in   early on Friday, his wife was arrested on Sunday for murdering him. The woman, Halimunisa Khan (48), who had also sustained head injuries, had told the police that her sons had attacked her and her husband, Shafiq Khan (56).

 It was in the wee hours of Friday that the couple was found lying in a pool of blood at their house. Shafiq was declared dead, Halimunisa was admitted to Sion hospital.
 
 The police said that Halimunisa's changing statements and inconsistencies in her statements had led them to call her bluff. An officer from   police station said that Halimunisa will be arrested once she is discharged from hospital.
 
 During the initial inquiry , Halimunisa had told the police that some unidentified people had barged into their house and attacked her and her husband.“But later she said that two of her sons had attacked them. We verified her statement but found some holes in it and so we grilled her thoroughly,“ said deputy commissioner of police Paramjit Dahiya. “Once cornered, she spilled the beans. She has told us that she ended up murdering her husband unintentio nally after they got into an argument.“
 
 Senior inspector of Shahu Nagar police station, Dilip Thorat, said that the couple fought frequently over financial issues. “Halimunisa had married off two of their daughters in one family in  , and Shafiq was not too happy about this. Also, Shafiq had taken a loan of Rs 3.5 lakh from his daughters' inlaws,“ said Thorat.
 
 Around midnight on Thursday , the couple got into a heated argument which lasted for at least a couple of hours, said a police officer. “In a fit of rage, Shafiq picked up a loose tile, which was lying around in the house, and threw it at Halimunisa. The injured woman hurled the same tile back at Shafiq, injuring him on the head. She rushed to pick up the fallen tile and threw it at him another time, which led to his death,“ said this officer.
 
 The police also said that they are verifying if Halimunisa's injuries were self-inflicted.
 
