PATNA: Students participated in essay writing, debate, extempore and singing competitions on the second day of   ‘Yuva Mahotsava’, organised by   on Thursday. College principal   appreciated the efforts of the participants and encouraged them to enjoy every moment of the fest. Over 500 students took part in various competitions organised during the three-day fest. 

 AMU test series: The Bihar chapter of Aligarh Muslim University Old Boys’ Association (AMUOBA) on Thursday launched Alig Circle, a test series programme for the entrance tests of Aligarh Muslim University in Patna. Dr. Arshad Haque, general secretary, AMUOBA, said the test series will be conducted at Patna Muslim High School. “The first test series will be conducted on April 9 from 11am free of cost for AMU Class XI entrance test. AMUOBA-Bihar will start various branches of Alig Circle in various districts like Darbhanga, Siwan, Kishanganj and Motihari,” he said.
 
 Tata Crucible Campus Quiz 2017: Raj Vardhan Tiwari and Riya Chouksey from Chanakya National Law University were declared winners at the regional round of Tata Crucible Campus Quiz 2017, Patna on Thursday. Around 137 teams participated in this round from various colleges. The duo will compete with seven other teams in the zonal finals to be held in Kolkata later.
 
 Pupils create social awareness: Several social awareness programmes were organised at M D College, Naubatpur, during its weeklong diamond jubilee celebration which concluded recently. The students actively participated in essay, elocution and quiz contests on topic related to Bihar. Arun Kumar Verma, state information commissioner, praised the college staff and students for organising such an event to create social awareness. 
 
 CM releases book on higher edu: Chief minister Nitish Kumar released a book, ‘Deterioration in higher education: Causes and Cure’, in his chamber at Bihar legislative council on Thursday. The book is authored by Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha of MD College, Naubatpur, Patna. The book deals with the present chaotic condition of education. The book was written to mark the diamond jubilee of the college. Education minister Ashok Choudhary, MLC Ranbir Nandan and others were present on the occasion.
 
 
