Ghaziabad: Thursday’s downpour affected   in the city as much as it affected the very movement of traffic. 

 Various shopping complexes across   were bereft of their bustle with empty   and idle shopkeepers.
 
 The shops in Shipra-Plaza market in Indirapuram wore a deserted look with no cars or customers until 1pm. 
 
 The Windsor Park market, with an array of eating joints, suffered a similar fate without any of the usual customers having lunch. 
 
 “It's a rainy day. It usually is a slow work day and we were prepared for this. But the GDA’s apathy has made it an annual event. The overflowing drain water has cut off all access to our shops once and for all,” a restaurant owner said.
 
 The waterlogging had put business in jeopardy, especially that of the shops located in basements. 
 
 “We had thought of shutting our shops in the morning when we saw the heavy rain. We are forced to keep our shutters down to protect the products inside the shop. Every year during the rains, water enters the shop and damages our stock and furniture,” said Prakash Manohar, a tailor from Sector 14, Kaushambi.
 
 The waterlogging affected the work of those in the medical profession. 
 
 Eight nurses of a well known hospital in Kaushambi could not go to work and a similar percentage of absence was reported across private hospitals in Indirapuram as well.
 
  saw a low attendance from customers till the latter part of the afternoon. 
 
 There was an 80% dip in customer arrival. 
 
 “We have had no customers since morning. We do not just work with the hospitals or provide prescriptions, but but also are open to regular customers,” said Ajay, a pharmacy salesman.
 
 With the shopkeepers having a tough time, the rain proved a blessing in disguise for rickshaw-pullers and auto drivers, who saw a rapid surge in their clientele in desperate need for last-mile connectivity. 
 
 “I usually drive my own car but today I couldn't pull it out. I had to go around the market close to Wave Mall, but it’s flooded, so I took a rickshaw,” said Deepshika Sahni, a commuter.
 
 
