THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The 29-day-old strike at Kerala   Law College here ended on Wednesday after the agitating student groups accepted the management's offer to remove college principal P   from the post. They were demanding her resignation earlier.

 An agreement was reached between the student union representatives and the law academy management in the presence of education minister C Raveendranath. "Lekshmi Nair has been removed from the principal's post as per the decision of the law academy governing council. A new principal with necessary qualifications, as prescribed by the university, will be appointed soon. The government will intervene if the academy moves away from these decisions," the tripartite agreement said.
 
 The student representatives expressed satisfaction with it. "The appointment of a new principal with necessary qualifications means the new appointment will not be an interim arrangement. Lekshmi Nair will never come back as the academy principal," one of them said.
 
 The representatives of all student unions, except the SFI, announced the withdrawal of the agitation soon after.   K Muraleedharan and BJP state secretary V V Rajesh, who had been observing fast in front of the law academy for the past one week, also ended their strike soon.
 
 Law Academy founder director N Narayanan Nair said the college would reopen on Monday. "Lekshmi Nair will not resign as it will lead to her losing service benefits of 27 years. A notification has been issued for selecting the principal. The interviews will begin on February 18," he said.
 
 The AISF, ABVP, KSU, MSF and the forum of girls' students went back on their demand for Lekshmi Nair's resignation after the government agreed to give an assurance on the appointment of the new principal.
 
 The earlier agreement between the SFI and the management had said that Lekshmi Nair had expressed willingness to keep off the principal's post for five years. It also said Lekshmi Nair would not return to the academy even as a faculty member during this period.
 
 "Our strike has won. Lekshmi Nair has been removed as principal and the government has agreed to intervene if the management refuses to stick to the agreement. Those who were out in the semifinals too were present in today's discussion," AISF state secretary Subhesh Sudhakaran said in an apparent dig at the SFI leadership,
 
 SFI state secretary M Vijin, meanwhile, said the new agreement didn't have anything more than the 17-point agreement it signed with the management earlier. Its representatives also attended Wednesday's meeting and signed the agreement.
 
