NAGPUR: After Nagpurian Dilip Dahake, 53, retired in 2014 with 42 per cent disability, he was looking for an activity to fill time. And soon enough, he got interested in meeting different personalities; more so, he got involved in collecting their autographs. Today, he has got about 37 slam books filled with photos and autographs, amounting to over 1350 signatures.

 Apart from Bollywood celebrities, theatre artistes, singers, musicians, politicians and other noted personalities, Dahake even takes pictures of those who are different than the rest. Dahake has autographs from French artistes who recently visited the city for an event; of Jyoti Ange, known for having the smallest height; Ved Dhok, one of the youngest tabla players in the city and so on.
 
 Dahake says that Asha Bhosle had appreciated his slam book, and says his photo of poet   was taken just six months before he passed away. Recollecting a memory of actor Sunny Leone, Dahake says he was at the airport when he heard news of her arrival. “When she saw me walking with crutches, trying to ask for autograph, she told her bouncers to get aside and let me through. She also readily agreed for a photograph with me,” Dahake recounts. 
 
 Dahake is accompanied with three other autograph enthusiasts, one of whom is Sunil Reddy, security personnel for IMGCH. Dahake and Sunil met at an event where both wanted signatures in their books. “Since I walk with crutches, it helps to have others. We take pictures of each other when they are with the celebrity and deal with the mob together,” Dahake says. He has been conferred with India book of records, Lima book of records and Asian book of records. He is now eyeing the Guinness honour.
 
 Reddy, 53, has been collecting photos and signatures since over 15 years, when he didn’t even own a camera. He has collected over 400 signatures and also proudly shows his book having photos of Sunil Dutt, Rajesh Khanna, Nilu Phule, Lata Mangeshkar, Manna Dey, RK Laxman and others. But he has chosen pictures of   for the first page of his book.
 
 “I’m a big fan of Bachchan. I remember years ago when he came. I was at the end of the crowd, but I made my way to the frenzy. He acknowledged me and gave an autograph,” reminisces Reddy. He also recalls fighting with actor Amol Palekar for an autograph. Reddy’s collection too Unlike Dahake, Reddy has collected an array of stamps, car models, matchsticks, key chains and so on. Talking of his purpose, he says that as a child, he wanted to join several fields and collecting things makes him happy. “I also wanted to keep busy. Due to financial obligations, though, I haven’t been able to pursue it full time,” he says. Reddy and Dahake’s other two mates are not interested in speaking to the media.
 
