AMRITSAR: In a rare show of unanimity, the Sikh clerics appointed by   (SGPC) and those appointed by the ‘Sarbat Khalsa’ (grand assembly of  ) on Tuesday condemned the group clash in Germany and Italy gurdwaras. Two Sikh groups had clashed at the Sikh Centre Gurdwara in Frankfurt (Germany) on Sunday over a programme by Panth Preet Singh, a Gurmat Sewa Lehar preacher from  . A similar clash had happened in Italy, too, over the preacher’s discourse.

 SGPC-appointed   jathedar Giani   and ‘Sarbat Khalsa’ jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib Baljit Singh Daduwal have cautioned Panth Preet to exercise restraint and not preach anything that adds to confusion among Sikh masses. While Gurbachan Singh wants Panth Preet to cut short his tour and return home immediately and plans to summon both warring groups to the Akal Takht, parallel ‘jathedars’ have convened a meeting to discuss the issue.
 
 Talking to TOI, Gurbachan Singh said, “It was due to Panth Preet that the Italy government has banned Sikhs from wearing ‘kirpan’ in public and they did not even allowed Sikhs to take out nagar kirtan.” He said the Akal Takht would summon both the warring factions of Sikhs in Italy and Germany.
 
 Expressing concern over the clashes, which saw tossing of turbans and cops entering the gurdwara wearing shoes, Gurbachan Singh said both the incidents could have been averted if Sikhs had sorted out their differences, as advised by the Akal Takht. “I had received numerous complaints against Panth Preet’s religious functions from Sikhs living abroad and suggested that they sort out their differences,” he said.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Daduwal said no religious discourse should be delivered which caused confusion in the Panth. He said ‘Sarbat Khalsa’ ‘jathedars’ would hold a meeting to take a call on the incidents of Italy and Germany.
 
 Founder president of Gurdwara Sahib, Langenthal (Switzerland) Ranjit Singh Masuta said, “The incidents of Italy and Germany have put the community to shame. Sikhs here are known as law-abiding, peaceful and hard working community but such incidents would mar their reputation.”
 
 Pointing out that the clashes were between Taksali (followers of seminaries) and missionary groups of Sikhs, he said the former’s (Taksali) supporters had objected to the preachings of Panth Preet, who is a missionary. “If anyone had an objection, they could have complained to the Akal Takht and let the jathedars decide on the matter,” said Masuta.
 
