BAREILLY: Several instances of inflammatory posts, videos and other malicious content, mostly communal in nature, have kept   Police on its toes. 

 The department is now aggressively acting on such posts with timely responses and initiating action against social media users allegedly trying to fan tension. In a recent directive, the state government has asked district administrations to maintain a WhatsApp group comprising influential people in the city where rumours, especially during the upcoming kanwar yatra, can be verified and clarifications can be issued on time.
  
  “Most of these inflammatory contents are communal in nature –some saffron clad men hitting a man or a handful of youth donning skull caps allegedly terrorising a Hindu. These incidents might be true at one point of time, but they are reposted on social media every now and then. This is where we immediately step in and issue clarifications,”  , DGP PRO, told TOI.
  
  Srivastava who himself is very active on Twitter takes to task several fake posts but not before the damage is done. In a recent case, a Twitter user posted a picture of UP 100 cops drawing fuel from a PCR van. The picture was circulated widely and users demanded action against the erring cops. It was later found that the cops under scanner were refuelling after they had exhausted the fuel credit limit.
  
  “We tweet through several verified handles, retweet users and media groups tweeting clarifications, et al,” Rahul Srivastava said.
  
  Ahead of the sensitive kanwar yatra, district administrations have been directed to form WhatsApp groups of influential people in the area to not only trace the origin of inflammatory contents but also issue proper and prompt clarifications before a law and order situation arises. “Apart from these WhatsApp groups, we will soon have an army of digital volunteers who would eventually aid us in fighting the menace of fake content and propaganda. We have sought suggestions from public as well and the plan would soon see the light of day,” Srivastava said.
  
  Meanwhile, the state   department has already issued an advisory for WhatsApp users, where it has asked the group admins to be careful about the content being shared on their group or they will have to face music.
