DEHRADUN: Sixteen men, including Delhi-based industrialist  , were arrested by   on   in   of Lansdowne, in Pauri Garhwal, on charges of   

 One person has been charged for carrying illicit liquor and another for carrying rifles and live cartridges. All 16 have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 Mukhtar Mohsin, senior SSP, Pauri Garhwal, told TOI, "On Saturday, we got information that some anti-social elements had been spotted carrying weapons and wearing military-style fatigues at the Kolhu Chaur forest guest house in Lansdowne forest division and there was a possibility that they might hunt wild animals too. Accordingly, a team was constituted and sent to investigate the matter." 
 
 He added that when the police team reached the spot, they found a number of people at the guest house - some staying in the rooms and others in tents pitched on the premises. Asked to show proof of permission to stay at the guest house, the men produced a booking confirmation in the name of Mohinder Singh which showed that three suites had been booked for them for December 31. However, they could not give a satisfactory explanation for the presence of the additional people as well as the pitching of tents, the SSP said. 
 
 "On checking one of the rooms, we found 171 liquor bottles of different brands. A box was recovered from another room which contained a .300 bore rifle along with 23 live cartridges and a telescope. One of the men, Arif Hussain, was also found to be in possession of a .375 bore rifle along with 15 live cartridges. A case was booked against Mohinder Singh under Section 60 of the Excise Act for being in possession of illicit liquor and against Arif Hussain under Sections 25/30 of the Arms Act for flouting licence regulations."
 
 The SSP added, "All the men have been booked under relevant clauses of Section 26 of the Indian Forest Act for trespassing on forest land. Eight of their vehicles, which were used for trespassing, have been seized."
 
 Rajender Mahajan, principal chief conservator of forests, Uttarakhand, said he had asked the chief conservator of forests to set up an inquiry into the matter.
 
 
