When you enter  's office in the Public Works Department at Gurgaon's Rajiv Chowk, you are treated to an unusual sight. A number of medals hang on the wall of his cabin and behind the desk sits a man who seems a bit too fit to fit in the traditional image of the sarkari babu. But Nagender is no ordinary government employee. The 32-year-old, who works as the Sub-Divisional Officer in Haryana PWD, is a three-time finisher of the Ironman Triathlon, one of the toughest endurance races on the planet. He is also a bronze medallist in triathlon at the state level and has represented Haryana in the National Games. Explaining his unusual place in the usually unfit world of government service, Nagender recounts a witty remark his friend once made to him, "They are unfit, and you are a misfit."

  
  Nagender Singh in his office at the Public Works Department
 
  Nagender hails from Bhiwani and has been working with the Public Works Department in Gurgaon for about eight years. He finished his first Ironman Triathlon in South Africa in November 2015, becoming the first government employee from India to do so. Since then, he has finished two more Ironman Triathlons and several smaller endurance races and half-marathons. 
 
  One might assume that working in the relatively-relaxed atmosphere of the public sector might free him to train more for Ironman. But working in the public sector while participating in such gruelling triathlons has its disadvantages, Nagender says. "In the government circles, there is little understanding of what such a competition means," he explains, adding, "We don't have an HR department that looks out for employees and what they are doing. In the private sector, they take pride in an employee's achievement. I know of an individual who was featured in his organisation's in-house publication when he was merely preparing for Ironman. In contrast, after three Ironman finishes, I haven't received any commendation. In fact, I didn't even get my expenses from the first Ironman reimbursed. If I want to engage a sponsor, I will have to seek permission and that process can take upto two years."
 
  
  
 
 
  Ironman Triathlon is a gruelling race that requires an individual to swim almost 4km in open waters, followed by a 180-km bicycle ride, and a full marathon run of 42km. And to be called an Ironman, one has to finish all three within 17 hours, something that requires one to be at the pinnacle of fitness. But Nagender wasn't always this athletic and fit. He says that growing up he was overweight and had never even dreamt of running triathlons. He recounts, "I was overweight throughout school and college. When I graduated college, I weighed 126 kgs. I wouldn’t have ever dreamed that someday I would represent my state in an endurance sport and participate in such an intense competition. The only sport I had participated in during my student life was chess."
 
 
  
  Nagender Singh takes a run through the Golf Course Road in Gurgaon
 
 
  Talking about how his fitness journey began, he tells us, "After graduating from NIT, Kurukshetra, I really wanted to get in shape and be fit, so I started with badminton. From there, I graduated to running. In 2010, I ran my first half-marathon but that was about it for the next five years. I was happy participating in half-marathons. In 2015, I saw a   video of the Ironman Triathlon and wondered what lunacy was this. It seemed impossible. But I decided to give it a shot and set a target of a half-Ironman for myself. Little did I know that in a few months, I would end up finishing the full Ironman Triathlon."
 
  
  
 
 
  The Phase-1 resident adds that staying in Gurgaon has helped his passion, since the city has a good culture of fitness and also a terrain that suits training for Ironman. "First of all, running and cycling are very popular in Gurgaon. There are frequent runs and rides in the city and when so many people are training, you also get a boost. That is something good about Gurgaon. On top of that, being so close to the Aravallis, you get a lot of places with elevation, which is required while training for the cycling part. In most Ironmans, you have to navigate lot of climbs and descents while cycling and places like the Gurgaon-Faridabad Expressway are perfect to train for that experience. So living in Gurgaon helps while training for Ironman."
 
  Nagender has his eyes set on a steeper challenge now. He was invited to participate in the Ultraman Challenge in Florida this year, where the distances are three times that of a regular Ironman, but he couldn’t go due to personal commitments. "Now, I am divided between going for the next Ultraman later this year or attempting a record of finishing 10 half-Ironman (triathlons where distances are half that of a traditional Ironman) in 10 days. The existing record for an Indian is seven in seven days, and I’m looking to break that."
 
 
