MOHALI: Municipal corporation here has decided to promote stray dog adoption even as residents here do not appear to be keen on it. Interestingly, the   has made these plans when it has no data on pets as well as stray dogs. 

 To make stray dogs adoption a success, mayor   said that the MC would encourage the people to adopt stray dogs in the city. He further said that such people would be rewarded handsomely for contributing to the noble cause. 
 
 Though at present the MC does not have any data on stray dogs adoption in the city but the mayor said that in recent past some of the residents have adopted stray dogs. "We do not have the data of those who adopted the stray dogs in Mohali at present, neither we are aware of the number of pet dogs registered here. But now we will maintain data of such residents or agencies adopting stray dogs," the mayor added. 
 
 However, residents on the other hand are apprehensive on adopting stray dogs. Talking to a section of residents TOI learnt that they do have sympathy for these poor creatures but when it comes to adoption they are not very receptive.
 
 Deepinder Kaur, a resident of Phase 3B1, said that, "My grandson was chased and bitten by a stray dog. We do feel that there must be some solution to check the menace." When asked that will she adopt a stray dog to contribute in eradicating the menace, she quipped, "Adoption, not possible. It is a headache to own a dog as we will have to maintain a proper record and get it registered with the MC." At present Mohali MC does not have a procedure for registration of dogs unlike Chandigarh and Panchkula.
 
 Gagandeep Shergil, a resident of Phase X, said that, "We have not adopted a stray dog but it generally sits outside our house and we feed him thrice a day. We are not keen on bringing   inside our house. Registering a stray dog as pet inculcates its responsibility, which we don't want to." 
 
 Some residents also said that the liabilities which come along with adoption of a stray dog were also deterring like the case in which if a dog bites someone then the owner is likely to be booked by the police. 
 
 
