Today, Zoroastrian families across the world will celebrate   (or Nowruz) — the traditional Iranian festival of spring, which begins at the exact moment of the vernal equinox (3:58 pm IST) when the night and day are of equal duration. Celebrated since 3,000 years, the festival occurs on the first day of the first month of the Fasli calender. For Mumbai’s minuscule peace loving Zoroastrian community comprising 50,000 odd Parsis and Iranis, Navroze is celebrated with a lot of fervour. 

 The numerous   baugs dotted along the city come alive with the cheerful greetings of ‘Navroze Mubarak’ after which the faithful make a trip to the neighbourhood agiary or atash behram — most of them in south Mumbai — to pray and offer sandalwood to the holy fire that burns inside. The agiaries have been scrupulously cleaned in the days leading to Navroze and decorated with beautiful divas and fresh flowers. Some Zoroastrians have jasans — thanksgiving prayers performed by priests — at home while some make a trip to the Iranshah at Udwada — the holiest place of worship for Zoroastrians. 
 
 Houses are spruced up, the most expensive China and fancy linen is brought out, colourful intricate rangoli is made at the entrance and colourful bead and glass torans are hung across thresholds. According to ancient customs, the Iranis lay down a special table, where the   (holy book) is placed along with a lamp or candle, sprouted wheat or beans, a bowl with a silver coin, flowers, sweets, rosewater, mirror and bowl of water. Seven food items beginning with ‘sh’ in Persian — wine, sugar, milk, sweet meat, honey, sweets and syrup — are placed along with fruits, dried fruits and nuts. Signifying prosperity, wealth and happiness among other things, the table is considered an auspicious part of celebrations. 
 
 The highlight of the day, of course, is the food — no Parsi occasion is complete without a scrumptious meal. The day begins with the tempting aroma of frying vermicelli or sev in ghee with sugar, almonds, raisins and charoli. Some homes make the rava, which is white and has almonds and raisins on top. Breakfast also comprises the Parsi poro, an omelette of tomatoes, green chillies, onions, kothmir or the akuri, which is scrambled. Lunch could be Sali Boti, Dhan Dal Patia or Mutton Dhansak. Dessert is jalebi, sutarfeni, falooda or kulfi. 
 
 After the indispensable afternoon siesta, it is time to host a get-together at home, meet old friends at the Parsi Gymkhana or spend the evening watching a play or the latest movie, followed by dinner at a fancy restaurant. While the naataks are nowhere as popular as they used to be during the time of the late  , known for his outrageous Gujarati plays, there are still plenty of other choices.   to all!
 
 
 
