NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (Mafsu) this year has got an   of Rs15.4 crore from the  .

 The amount includes Rs10 crore for   at various colleges affiliated to the university across the state and Rs5.4 crore additional contingency grant for   in research and teaching.
 
  told TOI that the university requires almost 12% of its budget for contingency. But it is for the first time that the university has got an additional budget and additional contingency.
 
 “We would be spending Rs10 crore for construction work and the remaining will be used primarily on strengthening research and teaching. The colleges require a lot of equipment and infrastructure for education and research. It is for the first time that the university has got some extra money for various developmental projects. Research is one of the biggest priorities for the university,” Misra said.
 
 Last year, Mafsu got just Rs3.63 crore as contingency whereas this year the university has received Rs4.03 crore contingency grants, along with additional contingency of Rs5.4 crore.
 
 Rs10 crore will be utilized for construction of 12 different buildings across various affiliated colleges of the university. The construction work also includes a bungalow for the V-C on Nagpur university campus at a cost of Rs30 lakh.
 
 Some of the major construction works include a 300-seat hostel in the Goregaon campus of Mumbai Veterinary College (MVC) at Rs90 lakh, construction of first floor building of girls’ hostel here itself (Rs50 lakh), a girls’ hostel in Parel campus of MVC (Rs90 lakh), renovation work in the dairy technology college in Warud (Rs10 lakh), boundary walls of various colleges (Rs2.6 crore), boys and girls hostel at Shirwal college (Rs50 lakh), guest house at Udgir college, repair work of UG and PG hostels (Rs1.5 crore), MVC, anatomy medicine and animal genetics laboratories (Rs30 lakh). 
 
 Misra said as compared to last year when the university got Rs89.85 crore as both planned and non-planned budget, this year the university has got 126.93 crore.
 
