HYDERABAD: Local support from people for the   project has come as a major surprise to   who were actually given the task of roping in corporate houses for funds.

 The Telangana government wanted to develop at least one Vaikunta Dhamam in every urban local body across the state.Each Vaikunta Dhamam will have an electrical crematorium, proper platforms to lit pyre, four changing rooms and toilets each for men and women with running water,12 lockers for storing ash, seating furniture etc. Even as officials were scouting for corporate houses who could fund the project under corporate social responsibility (CSR), tremendous response from locals at the municipal corporation, municipality and nagar panchayat left officials surprised. 
 
 “Locals are coming forward to fund various components of the project. Many people even donated vaikunta ratham i.e., a vehicle to carry the dead from home to the vaikunta dhamam,“ said  , assistant director, municipal administration. A large number of locals came forward to bear the expenditure for drilling bore wells, sais officials.Vaikunta Dhamam aims at making the last journey a comfortable and decent one. “There are 72 urban local bodies in the state. The plan is to have at least one vaikunta dhamam in each urban local body . The idea was to execute the project with CSR funds. There was a feeling that getting funds for the project in smaller towns or nagar panchayats would be a challenge. However, locals have volunteered to fund for the project with many urging that components such as lockers be named after the donors,“ an official said.
 
 Director of municipal administration   said that the vaikunta dhamam will have both an electric and traditional facility for cremation. Finishing touches are being given to vaikunta dhamams at Gajwel. The facilities at Siddipet and Huzurabad are almost ready. Gajwel and Siddpet vaikunta dhamams are being supported by corporate companies.Locals have largely contributed for the facility at Huzurabad.
 
 When asked, will people in small towns prefer electric crematoriums as they are inclined towards traditional cremation, officials said an electric facility is a must in all vaikunta dhamams as it could be used to cremate unclaimed dead bodies at the level of urban local bodies itself. 
 
