AHMEDABAD: After the directives from the CM office, home department on Thursday handed over the investigation and supervision of 12 cases registered against Mount Abu-based   across the state to CID (crime).

  Senior state police officials said that the special team will be headed by ADGP Anil Pratham. The team consists of  , SP; R B Devdha, DSP; and three police inspectors.
 
 Talking to TOI, Pratham said that out of 12 cases, six will be investigated directly by the CID team whereas the rest will be probed by local crime branch (LCB) of the respective districts. “The motive of overall supervision is to maintain uniformity in probe and tying up the loose ends,” he said.
 
 CID officials said that they are yet to get all the papers and details to ascertain the scope of the scam. The team was formed after the state government received several complaints about the Ponzi scheme. Police complaints are already registered with district police of Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Aravalli, Ahmedabad rural and Patan. It is suspected that the society has over Rs50 crore in deposits in 47 branches in Gujarat.
 
 “The society was floated by   from Mount Abu and used to provide loans at very lucrative rates. Moreover, it had higher interest rates on savings and recurring deposits. Agarwal is missing for past few months which started the panic across the branches. It got multiplied when the societies could not pay back the money when the depositors demanded it back. Another credit society floated by Agarwal has also shut shop,” said an investigator.
 
 The last complaint is registered with Viramgam town police station in Ahmedabad district where the depositors have complained of Rs3 crore loss.
 
 “The team will investigate the discrepancies observed in the operation of the society and check the legality. Investigators are also preparing a time line to ascertain how the society started in the state and flourished in past five years,” he added. 
 
 Times View
 
 In the past decade, a large number of investors in the state — both formal and informal — have suffered at the hands of scamsters. The racketeers cheat gullible people of their hard-earned money by promising astronomical returns on their investments. The cheated investors too are to blame for their greed. Effective monitoring of such dubious financial activities by the authorities can help bust these scams before they grow into major economic crimes. Officials should take prompt steps to blacklist dubious companies, sensitize investors and regularly check for the latest Ponzi schemes. 
 
 
