NAGPUR: Class X students of CBSE, who appeared for their science exam on Wednesday, found the paper quite lengthy. The general consensus among students was that the paper was long and had several diagrams.

 Student   said, “The paper was very easy but lengthy, especially the physics section. It had a lot of diagrams and that took a lot of time. I wasn’t able to finish the exam on time and that cost me a few multiple choice questions. But overall, the exam went really well and I am expecting good marks.”
 
 “The exam was lengthier than I expected. Luckily, I managed to solve it on time. All the questions from physics, biology and chemistry were student-friendly and easily solvable. If I were to give a rating out of 10, I would give an 8,” said Janhvi Dhote.
 
 Atharva Pingle was optimistic about the exam. “The paper was not difficult at all. I would say it was a healthy mix of difficult as well as easy questions. Physics had a lot of diagram questions and that took a lot of time. Apart from that, it was a well-balanced paper. I am happy that all my hard work paid off.”
 
 Science teacher   agreed that the paper was well balanced. “The question paper was a nice blend of knowledge-based, skill-based and application-based questions. There were 5-6 ray diagrams in physics and a lot of students found it lengthy. They did not find the time to complete the paper and those who did it couldn’t check their answers.”
 
 “The questions asked were quite good and relevant. There were a few tricky questions in the chemistry section but if the student had understood the concepts well, he or she would’ve been able to solve them well,” Bargi added.
 
 Shrinivas Trivedi said that studying from   books really helped. “I found High Order Thinking Skills (HOTS) questions a tad difficult. Also, the paper was really lengthy. The question paper was almost based on NCERT books. So, the students who studied from those books will probably score well.”
 
 “Students who referred to guides were really disappointed. There were a few difficult questions in the chemistry section as well,” Trivedi added.
 
 Analysis
 
 Paper toughness: Easy / Medium / Tough
 
 Questions Relevance: Out of syllabus/ Confusing/ Straight forward
 
 Paper Length: Short/ Proper / Lengthy
 
