CHENNAI: Chennai-lad   is all set to get his maiden call-up for the under-23 India team, which will be announced on Friday. The team will play two warm-up games against the under-23 Singapore team as part of their preparation for the AFC Under-23 Championship qualifiers, which will be held in Doha from July 19. A source confirmed that the young midfielder is also likely to make the cut for the AFC U-23 event squad.

 Nandhakumar, who made his debut for   in I-League last season, has been training with the under-23 side in New Delhi for the past one month and it was learnt that national coach   was impressed with the midfielder's skills. "It's been over a couple of weeks that we have been together and the U-23 boys needed competitive games. The tour to Singapore would be a valuable experience for the squad. The games would be competitive and provide us the much-needed exposure. It will also help us in gauging how the players handle the intensity of these international matches," Constantine had said earlier.
 
 The India U-23 team will take on Singapore on July 9 and 12 before directly flying off to Qatar on July 15. India are placed in Group C along with Syria, Qatar and Turkmenistan.
 
 Nandha to miss   exposure tour? 
 
 Nandhakumar's national call-up would mean that the young medio will be missing the initial stages of CCFC's exposure tour to Finland. As part of the tie-up between CCFC and Finland's second division club JS Herculus, four youngsters from the state - Soosai Raj, Nandhakumar, Edwin and Beautin - were supposed to travel to Finland on July 15 to train with the club for a month.
 
 With India playing their last group match on July 23, Nandhakumar is likely to miss 10 days of the tour. CCFC co-owner   Ramesh lauded  's efforts and zeal. "Nandha impressed us with his work ethic when he played for  . Then we gave him the platform last season by signing him up. We are glad that he has used this opportunity the right way. Country always comes first and we have no problems if he misses the initial stages of the tour. Hopefully, he can make it to Finland later as the tour would help him to develop as a player," Rohit told TOI on Thursday.
 
