KOLKATA: Work has finally started to clear the 573 encroachments on railways land between Noapara and Jessore Road. These encroachments had held up extension of the   network up to the airport for the last five years. Now that the demolition work has started, officials are hopeful of extending services up to   by June 2018. 

 “We hope to commission a 23-km route by June 2018. These include the Noapara-Jessore Road, Noapara-Dakshineswar, Kavi Subhash-Hemendra Mukherjee (Ruby Hospital crossing) and Salt Lake Sector V-Phoolbagan (East-West corridor) stretches. We were unable to do anything about the 573 encroachers between Noapara and Jessore Road, but now we have the entire stretch free and work will progress unhindered till Jessore Road. We have to thank the state for this,” Metro Railway general manager M C Chauhan told TOI. 
 
 The encroachments were upon a 700-800m stretch along tracks between the Dum Dum Cantonment level crossing gate and Bagjola Canal Bridge No. 3. According to Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee, the transport department and South Dum Dum Municipality assisted with relocating the encroachers. 
 
 “Chief minister   allotted funds for a five-acre plot close to Belgharia Expressway where the South Dum Dum Municipality has built accommodation for the encroachers. In February, a lottery was held in the presence of civic officials and local leaders to ensure fair allocation. We are now waiting with men and machines and as soon as the demolition is complete — in about a week — we shall start piling work,” Banerjee said.
 
 While services between Kavi Subhash and Jessore Road will start by June next year, it will take a few more months for the link to reach Kolkata airport. This is because the   (AAI) has sought time till this October to relocate an electric sub-station and water treatment plant along the route. Officials believe that they would be able to run trains between Kavi Subhash and the airport by the end of 2018. It will take more time to construct the final stretch from Jessore Road as the airport station will be underground. 
 
 “The only hurdle is due to the 200-odd encroachers between Baranagar and Dakshineswar. As soon as these encroachments are cleared, we will be able to complete the stretch up to Dakshineswar. People should realise that these projects will benefit them and desist from obstructing progress. Phase-I of the East-West corridor will be commissioned only till Phoolbagan in June 2018 as space will be required at Sealdah for the tunnel boring machine (TBM) that will start work from Esplanade. The platforms at Sealdah can only be constructed after the TBM completes work,” Chouhan said.
 
 
