

 HYDERABAD: Consumers hoping to get fresh fruits at their local markets are likely to be disappointed, with most vendors using china powder to ripen fruits and wax to give apples that beautiful shine.
 
 While the use of both china powder and wax has been permitted by court, the danger lies in the quantity and quality of product used. In the case of china powder, the concentration of usage is never mentioned on packets, giving traders a free hand to use it liberally. Similarly, while apples are coated with   to increase the shelf life of the fruit, the common man can never be too sure of the quality of wax used.
 
 Placing the onus of using chemicals on traders and vendors,   , a senior official of the agricultural marketing department, says, “Farmers supply   and never use chemicals to ripen it.“
 
 Mangoes, bananas, papayas and sapodilla are the most common fruits ripened artificially, agriculture marketing officials say. Mango traders pluck the fruit early and ripen them using chemicals, because price of mangoes is high during the beginning of the season and gradually dips.
 
 The use of calcium carbide is rampant and this has carcinogenic properties. With its use, the nutritional value of fruits almost decreases by half, say nutritionists. “Seasonal fruits consumed should always be organic as carbide and other chemicals affect the liver, which in severe cases lead to multiple organ dysfunction,“ said Deepa Agarwal, a nutritionist.
 
 While the option of ripening chambers is available to vendors, they are not cost and ti me effective, food inspectors said. There are 20 ripening chambers in the state. The chambers, which are also known as Ethylene chambers, take approximately 72 hours to ripen fruits, which is more costly compared to dangerous chemicals. Major problem with chambers, traders say is the process of loading and unloading along with cost.
 
 A wholesale fruit vendor at Mozamjahi Market said,“I am sure the cost of fruits will doub le if we don't use china powder to ripen the fruits,“ he said.
 
 In September 2016, the High Court prohibited the use of calcium carbide to ripen fruits, and it also likened traders using such chemicals to terrorists.
 
 “I mostly take fruits when I visit a patient, so it is important that the fruits be free from harmful chemicals,“ said Abdul Baari, who was purchasing mangoes near a fruit market in the Old City.
 
 
 
 
 Considering their exposure to chemicals and fertilisers, nutritionists recommend that fruits be soaked in water before they are consumed.
 “Fruits should be soaked in a bowl of vinegar mixed with water and left for one hour, then the fruits can be washed under running water and refrigerated,“ said Deepa Agarwal, a nutritionist from Apollo Hospital.
 
 But doctors say the best way to ensure the nutritional benefit from a fruit remains is by consuming only those that are grown organically .
 
 They suggest fruits should be ripened at home as it is very difficult to differentiate between fruits, which have been ripened naturally and fruits which are ripened using artificial and dangerous chemicals.
 
 “Fruits ripened through artificial chemicals may also effect the nervous system in children, so it's always better to use organic fruits,“ said Asritha V , a nutritionist from a city-based diet clinic.
 
 Listing out some ways of ripening fruits at home experts say that in case of mangoes, the desired result can be achieved by putting them under layers of dry grass while bananas can be ripened by exposing them to the smoke from coal. While citrus fruits do not require ripening, custard apples and sapota can be ripened by keeping them in an air-tight container, experts add.
 
 Increasing number of ripening chambers by the government and reducing the ripening cost can also decrease  , say vendors.
 
 “The number of chambers in the city are very less and if we opt for chambers, we cannot meet the demand and it will affect the farmers as well,“ said a wholesale merchant at the Kothapet fruit market.
 
 
 
 
 Given the grave ramifications that consumption of artificially ripened fruits can have, it is time the government addressed the issue with an ron fist. While following court orders, officials conducted raids across fruit markets to check use of carbide and other chemicals, no action has been taken against offenders thereafter.Unless traders are punished, this practice will not stop.
 
