MUMBAI: The 172-year-old   made its first contribution to the   programme on Sunday, two decades after the state's first   was successfully carried at  . Doctors welcomed the participation from the state’s biggest hospital, calling it a need of the hour— given that 90% of the city’s cadaver donations and transplants take place in the private sector. 

 The donor was an accident victim from Jalgaon, Sangeeta Mahajan (38), whose family gave their consent after several rounds of counselling by JJ doctors as well as dean Dr TP Lahane over the last two days. The approval from the family came after an appearance from the officer on special duty of medical education department Rameshwar Naik, who too hails from Jalgaon. Only the donor’s liver and eyes could be harvested to give a new lease of life to two.
 
 Dr Lahane said it was a big moment for the hospital. “Organ donation in a public set-up is challenging as a majority of patients lack awareness. In JJ, 70% of our patients come from rural Maharashtra, unlike municipal hospitals where most of the patients are from the city or the periphery,” he said. He added the programme would be intensified as the state has put a lot of impetus on boosting donations. Barring Mumbai and Pune, most other districts like Aurangabad and Nagpur are taking baby steps in organ donation. 
 
 Mahajan, who also became the city’s 33rd cadaver donor this year, was brought to the Byculla hospital on Thursday. She had suffered a serious head injury after being hit by a two-wheeler in Jalgaon. After her condition showed no improvement, the JJ doctors spoke to the family about the possibility of organ donation. “But, since she was on ventilator, the family members thought she would live,” Lahane said. They were convinced of the brain death only after a brain EEG report with a flat line was shown. 
 
 The brain death certification took place early on Sunday following which Thane’s Jupiter Hospital doctors harvested her liver. The organ was transplanted into a 56-year-old man from Barshi in Solapur. JJ preserved the corneas. The other solid organs such as kidneys and heart were not fit for donation.
 
 Dr Gustad Daver, president of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), said a greater participation from public hospitals would benefit the society at large. “If public hospitals jump in proactively, we can double the donor pool in one year. Most public hospitals, already burdened with other diseases, may think they don’t run transplant programmes, so why to worry about cadaver donation. But they must know that one donation can saves 4-5 lives,” he said. While the state has made it mandatory to report brain deaths, many public hospitals have been found lacking even on that front. Within the city, only KEM and Nair have contributed to a handful of donations.
 
 Dr Sunil Shroff, managing trustee of NGO Mohan Foundation said it was unfortunate that only 10% of the transplants happen at public hospitals where 90% of the brain deaths occur as most accident victims are brought to public hospitals. “Unlike most other countries in the world, the private sector dominates transplants in India,” he said. He added that there is a great deal of awareness among people and most would donate only if approached. “State needs to work with private sector and focus on capacity building,” he said.
 
 
