PUDUCHERRY: A   from the  , K Kamalini Haradhana Nimban, will represent India in the world school chess championship at Iasi in Romania in April and the   at   in July this year.

 The chess prodigy, along with two other girls, will represent India in the under 7 years category in the two championships.
 
 Kamalini was selected for the tournaments after she bagged the silver medal in the national school chess championship at Nagpur in January this year. She had to settle for silver as she lost the last two rounds due to fatigue after winning the first seven rounds. Shriyana Mallya from Karnataka, whom she defeated, finally managed to win gold medal with eight wins in nine rounds. Shriya Patel from Goa finished third with bronze medal.
 
 The youngest participant in the national school chess championships in 2015 and also in Commonwealth Games in the same year, Kamalini finished 13th in national school chess championships in 2016.
 
 Kamalini bettered her performance in the national event this year much to the delight of her parents - J Karthikeyan, an aptitude trainer and K Madharasi, a homemaker - and her coaches Sathyamoorthy and B Vinoth Kumar of Bishop Academy of Chess in Puducherry.
 
 "Kamalini is currently the emerging talent in her age group in the game of chess. Basically a defensive player, of late she has been initiated into the tactics of playing an attacking game. She adapted quickly and started learning to play aggressively. We hope she will come out with flying colours in both the tournaments. Particularly we are hopeful about the Asian event," said Vinoth Kumar.
 
 A Class I student of Sri Sankara Vidyalaya higher secondary school, Kamalini started learning chess at the age of four at the behest of her father in 2014.
 "She has been undergoing training for at least three hours daily since then. She visits the academy to train on alternate days while practising at home on the other days. She is fond of Hungarian-American Grandmaster Susan Polgar and of late has started reading her books," said Karthikeyan, who is now on the hunt for sponsors to fund the twin foreign trips.
 
