PATNA: The questions and answer key of paper I of   (SSC) examination allegedly went viral on WhatApp and Facebook before the candidates started writing papers on Sunday for the multitasking (non-technical) staff (MTS) job in different states.
 
  The examination was held at different centres in Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur districts. There were 58 examination centres in   alone. Those who qualify in the Paper I have to appear for Paper II having subjective-type questions.
  
  An SSC communiqué on its website on Sunday said, “It has come to the notice of the commission that on a social media page, the question papers of the   2016 with some answers were uploaded after the commencement of the morning as well as the evening sessions of the examination. The commission is fully seized of the matter which is being closely investigated by the investigating agencies who are working on definite leads. The commission would be taking appropriate action against the vested interests in accordance with rules of the commission and as per law. In the meantime, the MTS examination will continue as per schedule.”
  
  Sources said the examination is being held in different stages and the remaining tests are to be held on May 28, June 4 and June 11. The exam held in the afternoon shift on April 30 was cancelled on allegations of paper leak, according to a press release issued by the SSC on May 1.
  
  According to information received from Patna district control room, the separate batches of candidates appeared for the examination in two shifts, from 10am to 12pm and from 2pm to 4pm. Altogether 150 objective-type questions were asked.
  
  The answer key surfaced on WhatsApp a few minutes before the first shift examination commenced. Some of the candidates who came out of the examination hall after the first shift told some TV news channels that the questions and answer key were leaked. They claimed the answer key of reasoning and mathematics questions were matching.
  
  One of the aspirants, Amit Kumar, who failed to write the papers as he could not find the room in which he had to sit at the AN College centre, said he had heard a few candidates discussing the answer key which they had allegedly received on WhatsApp. “It was around 9am when the answer key was leaked,” he said.
  
  Another candidate Abhijit Kumar, whose centre was at PN Anglo School near Khazanchi Road, said he also came to know about the answer key which went viral before the first shift.
  
  Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal did not respond to TOI’s call despite repeated attempts. Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said he had no information about any question paper leak.
  
  The students had all the reasons to believe that the paper was leaked as was the case in several competitive examinations held in the state recently. It was on May 7 only when Patna police arrested two medical students, an examination centre’s deputy superintendent and two others while attempting to leak   question papers. Police are investigating whether the question papers were leaked in Bihar or not.
  
  Earlier, in February, question papers of Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) were leaked and several government officials including former   chairman and now suspended IAS officer Sudhir Kumar are in jail.
