GANDHINAGAR: Defence minister   on Thursday said that the defence sector has gone a step ahead of the ‘Make in India’ concept. The ministry now has a “design, develop and make in India” policy for procuring products.

 Parrikar was speaking at the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit at the seminar on ‘Aerospace and Defence – Synergies for Achieving Self Reliance, Encouraging Innovation and Make in India’. Stressing on the success of involving private players who manufacture defence products in the country, Parrikar said that the new defence procurement procedures and relaxations in licensing have now started yielding results and manufacturing processes have also been expedited. Gujarat companies have got 20 licenses for manufacturing.
 
 Parrikar praised Gujarat for its innovation, ease of doing business, progressive and looking forward approach. “It can become an important hub for defence manufacturing. There are a variety of products being developed by defence sector and Gujarat government can be interested in aerospace technology,” he said.
 
 With the policy of procuring indigenously designed, developed and manufactured (IDDM) products, approvals for manufacturing of products worth Rs 96,000-crore have been given for companies manufacturing in India.
 
 Parrikar welcomed companies interested in manufacturing aerospace products, in which Gujarat government has expressed interest in providing space for production.
 
 The minister also said that the defence department’s exports have grown 3-4 times. “But this is not enough. There were lot of restrictions earlier. This is an area we can grow multi-fold. We have reduced approval time for export NOC to 30 days. Some 70% of NOCs have been issued in 15 days only. Earlier this took more than six months,” he said.
 
 The chairman of Defence Research and Development Orgnization (DRDO), S Christopher said permission for private firms in manufacturing is a “boon” for DRDO. “We are partners in this endeavour and not competitors. With the private sector growing very fast, our capabilities are augmented and multiplied.”
 
 Secretary of defence production,  , said that the number of NOCs for exports have increased from 39 in 2013-14 to 191 in 2015-16.
 
 CEPT ties up with Danes
 
 CEPT University has signed MoUs with the National Research Centre, Amsterdam; and Innovation Centre in Denmark. National Research Centre, Amsterdam and CEPT will both work on smart mobility, cycling and parking. The MoU with Innovation Centre is for renewable transport, smart city research and exploring building and research projects.
 
 Sensitive issue gets VGS invite
 
 On the last day of VGS, around 350 revenue officers from across the state involved in land acquisition work were called for a special session on the land acquisition act. This despite the fact that the state has been witnessing protests against acquisition of agricultural land for industries.
 
 College asked to be present
 
  Commissioner’s office issued a circular to all colleges on on Thursday (the last day of the Summit) directing them to send their teachers and students to the VGS venue at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar on Friday. Many colleges were not even aware of such a circular which was clearly issued to increase footfalls at the biennial event. On Friday, business-to-business meetings will take place at the VGS venue. 
 
 Fast food good for pharma sector!
 
 Pankaj Kumar, joint secretary in the state government, was speaking at a VGS seminar on Thursday. His remarks surprised and also amused the audience. Talking about the opportunities for pharmaceutical sector in the state, Kumar said that at his seminar one should welcome new lifestyles. “It's a question of freedom of the people and a matter of individual choice. They can eat whatever they want — burger or pizza. Both give impetus to our industry,” Kumar said.
 
 ‘Invent tablet to replace pizza, burger’
 
 In the same seminar, Gujarat minister of state Shankar Chaudhary floated a new idea. He suggested that pharmaceutical companies invent 'tablets' which can satiate the craving for food like pizza and also give the same flavour. "It would revolutionize the pharma and food sector," he said.
 
 34 chartered flights landed in 3 days
 
 City’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport on Thursday witnessed arrival of 15 more chartered flights. With this, the total number of chartered flights arrived here during the three days of VGS rose to 34.
 
 
