NAGPUR: The newly elected  ,   is the face of today’s woman. Highly educated yet moored to family, a hands on mother yet equally involved in community work and a deeply spiritual person who also enjoys watching the latest movie. Sixth in the line of seven siblings, Nanda hails from a middle class family residing at Colonel Bagh. Her initial education was at   and higher education at Mohta Science College, Institute of Sciences and Nagpur University.

 The fine line of degrees, MSc, MPhil in Statistics and BEd all appeared wasted when after her marriage she moved to Mumbai in 1993. “My husband, Sharad is a regional transport officer. I moved with him when he got transferred. But there in Mumbai I did various self-development courses.” It was while she was working on a project for forming neighbourhood committees that her husband was transferred back to Nagpur. “Both of us had taken those courses and my husband had found them very engrossing. Back in Nagpur he asked me to reach out to the entire city with my work. The NMC elections were about to take place so I joined  , filled the form and got the ticket after a series of interviews.”
 
 Married into a rural based family of Benoda Shahid in Amravati district, her father-in-law, a teacher in a primary school was a patriarch of sorts in the village. “Politics was discussed but patriotism was the underlying sentiment,” she says. “Ours was an arranged marriage and though Sharad came from a rural background and I am city bred but his family is very progressive and our wavelength matched. We do many things together like a spiritual course from   or going for treks in the Himalaya. His good image also fetches me some votes,” she smiles.
 
 Multitasking is a way of life for the newly elected Mayor. “I love to cook and can make quite tasty curries and chicken,” she says and adds that singing, photography, painting are hobbies she likes to indulge in. “Learning new things is my passion and so I did a diploma in computers,” says the corporator who missed a medical seat by three marks but won elections in 2012 with the highest margin.
 
 A grandmother of a three year old girl, Jichkar says that what troubles her about new age parenting is overindulgence. “Children observe their parent’s behaviour and learn from it. If parents are stressed and worried all the time then children will grow in a troubled environment,” says the mother of two sons both IIT graduates. “A proper channelizing of energies is a must. Today I see a lot of women who are educated but have no direction. I hope to gather this group and build something cohesive out of it,” says the first lady of the city.
 
 Drawing her strength from yoga and meditation, 53 year old Jichkar says that the maturity which comes with age helps in stress management. “Now I know the futility of making a mountain out of a mole hill.”
 
