CHENNAI: PayTM on Thursday said it will now be charging 2% for all customers, who use their credit cards to recharge their wallet, after the pre-paid instrument (PPI) found that tech-savvy customers were misusing its 0% bank fee. 

 The move comes after PayTM said it has had to block credit cards after it realised that merchants and bank staff were exploiting their discount to rotate cash for free credit and loyalty points. 
 
 Last November, PayTM launched a new payment platform for small merchants at 0% fee in November. The 0% bank fee was first applicable only to merchants, shops, but was later extended to all users, leading to the misuse — when users funded their PayTM wallet with credit cards and transferred it to their bank account for free — in effect getting loyalty points/cash and free credit.
 
 “We will aggressively block users and cards misusing it. We are paying a fee for using bank/card networks. And we wanted to lower transaction costs within our network. But when users move money to their bank account at 0% bank fee, we lose money. Our revenue comes from users spending within our network and we make money from the margins on various products/services we offer,” said Vijay Shekhar Sharma, CEO, PayTM.
 
 PayTM also clarified that there will be no additional fee, while shopping on PayTM or paying for utilities using credit card. Using credit cards on partner apps like UBER, Swiggy also will not attract charges and will continue to remain free of cost. 
 
 “Normal customers will not be affected. We are very specific. We have blocked credit cards only for some and want to prevent misuse by bank employees,” said Sekhar.
 
 PayTM also told its customers even when charged, they will get gift vouchers for the same. “If you swiped for Rs 10,000, and you’ve been charged at 2% (Rs 200), then you will receive a gift voucher for Rs 200,” said a PayTM spokesperson.
 
 But the decision to block cards seems to have also impacted other customers of the wallet. On Twitter, PayTM team and Vijay Shekhar kept tweeting and reassuring worried customers that their cards would soon be unblocked. “All credit cards that were blocked due to this reason are unblocked and can be used to add money now,” tweet Shekhar to a customer, who was unable to access his account or add money. 
 
 PayTM said it is checking the usage of its customers and genuine customers’ credit cards will soon be unblocked and will have access to its wallet.
 
 
