Lucknow: Indicating that the SP-Congress alliance may continue beyond the   polls, senior   leader   said on Thursday that the alliance umbrella will widen to accommodate more like-minded, secular parties.

 Azad did not give a direct response to whether Bahujan Samaj Party -- SP’s arch rival in UP -- will be a part of the grand alliance. He only said everyone who believed in the secular fabric of the country would be welcome. “The SP-Congress alliance will continue in 2019   elections as our parties realise that if we want to strengthen the secular base of UP, then we need to be together,” he said.
 
 On Thursday, Azad also fended questions about why Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had decided to not campaign beyong Amethi and Rae Bareli, despite playing a key role in fixing the alliance. “She is like the general manning the war room and fixing the plans the strategy that everyone executes. She is someone who has guided the alliance and its campaign. When and where she campaigns, though, is her choice. We have her good wishes in everything that is being done,” he said.
 
 On Modi’s allegation that Congress had tried to get Mulayam Singh Yadav killed in 1980s, Azad said the Congress does not adhere to the policy of “marna and maarna” and added that PM Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah follow the RSS ideology of hatred and violence.
 
 Azad added that the BJP was able to put up a strong performance in 2014 Lok Sabha polls because the secular parties had not come together, suggesting that the mistake will be rectified in the next general elections in 2019.
 
 Attacking Narendra Modi, Azad said the PM lacks the maturity, seriousness and gravity required for the job, because of which the quality and content of his speeches in and outside Parliament is deteriorating with every passing day.
 
 Claiming that the SP-Congress alliance was in the lead in UP and would form the next government with Akhilesh as chief minister, Azad also targeted AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and called him a “BJP agent” for his attempts to split the Muslim vote through emotional speeches. He also said voting for AIMIM was like voting for the BJP.
 
 Warning the minority community against voting for the BSP, Azad also alleged Mayawati tended to transfer her votes to the BJP when she found Muslim votes drifting to other parties. “I was in western UP a while ago and I came across a video clip in which Mayawati was saying that when she saw the Muslim votes drifting towards other parties, she transferred her votes to the BJP. This means that whenever a Muslim candidate is close to winning, she transfers her vote to the BJP,” he alleged.
 
 
