NEW DELHI: The government has started six new AIIMS in the past five years and sanctioned over a dozen others in various parts of the country. However, the expansion of the main  , considered a model for super-specialty healthcare in the country, is in jeopardy.

 At least five major projects that started in 2014 — nearly a decade after they were proposed or approved — at the institute’s Masjid Moth campus and the   are running behind schedule due to lack of funds. A top official, not wishing to be named, told TOI that the institute wasn’t able to pay contractors in time and that procurement of machinery was also affected.
 
 Sources said AIIMS had asked for more than Rs 3,000 crore from the government in 2017-18 for development work but got just Rs 576 crore.
 
 “The finance committee will meet soon to review the development work. We are going to ask for at least Rs 1,400 crore more so ongoing projects can be completed,” an official said.
 
 The National Cancer Institute (NCI) in Haryana is also an AIIMS project and officials said major investment is required to make it operational at the earliest.
 
 Major projects at the institute’s Masjid Moth campus that are running behind schedule include the new  , surgical block, mother and child block and doctor’s hostel. Sources said these projects were conceptualised and proposed as part of AIIMS’s redevelopment plan over a decade ago. The foundation stone for some of them was laid in 2014.
 
 “The initial cost of construction for the projects was around Rs 750 crore. Due to delays and demands by departments to add newer equipment, the cost has overrun by more than 100%,” said a source, justifying the need for more money.
 
 TOI visited at Masjid Moth campus on Tuesday where most of the new projects are coming up. It found that the new OPD block, which ought to have been completed in February 2016, was still under construction.
 
 “Even if we get the funds now, it will take at least seven to eight months to make it functional,” said an official. He added that the new OPD block was needed to decongest the existing facility because the patient load had gone up several times over the last few years.
 
 The mother and child block situated next to the upcoming OPD block was also incomplete. Engineers said 60% work on the building was yet to be completed.
 
 The 200-bedded surgical block was almost ready. “We can handover this building within months. But installation of equipment and making modular operation theatres will take longer,” said an official.
 
 At present, there is a wait time of up to three years for many surgeries in AIIMS, including those for cancer. The surgical block was planned to bring this down. But the delay, doctors said, was failing the hopes of many patients.
 
 Similarly, the resident doctors of AIIMS have been demanding more hostels for more than a decade. Due to delay in construction, they are forced to stay private accommodation which is costly and unsafe.
 
 “In the past, projects at AIIMS weren’t generally stuck for want of funds. We hope the government will sort out this crisis so that the expansion plan is executed at the earliest,” a doctor said.
 
 One of the faculty members said that in the last decade since the expansion plan was proposed and approved, the needs for super-specialty care had changed. “We are still streamlining the OPDs and mother and child services. If these projects were executed in time, newer projects such as construction of a transplant tower, which is the need of the hour, could have been taken up,” he said.
 
 The AIIMS trauma centre was proposed in 2003 and construction started in 2007. “Even then, the project could not be executed as planned due to lack of funds. The expansion of ICU facility, beds and paid block has been started recently,” said a source.
 
 AIIMS also plans a paid block with deluxe wards and car lifts following frequent suggestions from the government for self-generation of revenue. A review of user charges for various services and diagnostic facilities is also being undertaken by an expert committee.
 
