Hyderabad: If the words of former finance minister P Chidambaram are anything to go by, banks will see a further worsening of the non-performing assets (NPAs) situation in the coming days as more SMEs default on their loan commitments due to the after effects of demonetisation.

 According to estimates, the gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) of Indian banks stood at Rs 6,68,825 crore in September 2016 and the major sectors that contributed include infrastructure, textiles, engineering and mining, among others. As a result of the burgeoning bad loans, banks, especially public sector ones, had become cautious about lending to corporates and were mainly focusing on retail and SMEs lending in the past few years. "In the next year, NPAs will get worse. More and more people will default on their loans, especially the ones in the SME sector,” Chidambaram said adding that a vast number of SMEs in the country have shut down after demonetisation mainly due to loss of business. The former FM was in the city to launch his latest book - 'Fearless in Opposition, Power and Accountability'. Terming demonetisation as the biggest 'scam' of 2016, Chidambarm said that India, that was growing at around 7.6% before demonetization, will have to settle for a lower GDP growth of 6-6.2% as a result of which it will take a hit of a whopping Rs 2,35,000 crore. He was of the view that it will take anywhere between 12-18 months for the economy to recover and revert to the pre-demonetisation growth numbers. On the government’s push to a cashless economy, he said there will be issues related to privacy in a cashless economy as all the transactions can be traced. While it is okay to have certain high-value transitions in a cashless form, the small ones can be either in cash or non-cash form depending on the choice of the people, he added. The former FM was of the view that the way events unfolded post demonetisation, they had “diminished the reputation” of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 
 
 Taking potshots at the ruling party, he said the BJP-led government is the best “event manager” this country has seen. Citing the example of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, he pointed out that around 46% of the new toilets build under this scheme have no water, thus rendering them useless. On the crackdown on universities, he said people have been living in fear under the current regime. “Dissent is the essence of freedom,” he said.
 
 
