GURUGRAM: The Gurgaon administration has asked  , the suspended principal of Ryan International School’s Bhondsi branch where Class 2 student Pradhyumn Thakur was murdered, to join another branch of the school in the city as a teacher. But the Ryan campus she was sent to, in  , said it was not willing to accommodate Batra.

 A senior school management official of the Ryan Sector 40 branch, who did not wish to be named, said, “The   has ordered us to take Neerja Batra but we do not feel this is the right decision. She will not be joining us immediately as she still remains suspended from her job.”
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh was put in charge of Ryan Bhondsi after the Haryana government took over control of the school for three months. Batra was suspended after the September 8 murder of the seven-year-old boy, allegedly by a school bus conductor after a failed sexual assault attempt. Batra has been questioned by police but no case has been filed against her. The police does not hold her accountable as she had informed the school’s administration of security loopholes before the murder. 
 
 The official of the Sector 40 branch, however, said the decision to send Batra there was not acceptable. 
 
 “Both parents and teachers are concerned about this. It is the Ryan school management’s duty to decide on her job situation but they cannot put her in my school. I will propose to the management that they inform the DC that this is not acceptable. She had come to start work here last Monday but we asked her to leave as she could not produce a written order transferring her to our school,” the official said. 
 
 Singh said it was the school management’s decision now where they would employ Batra. “After discussions with stakeholders, I decided to send Neerja Batra to the Sector 40 branch. Now it is up to the school management whether to use her services or not. Since Neerja had highlighted deficiencies to the Ryan management multiple times about the Sohna road (Bhondsi) branch and had no financial powers, she has not been directly held responsible for the unfortunate incident in the preliminary inquiry,” he said. 
 
 Parents of students of the Sector 40 branch are unhappy about the decision and are ready to stage a protest if Batra is allowed to work in the school. Nirmala Arora, parent of Class 3 student, said, “We cannot accept Neerja Batra in this school. She should be dismissed from her position.”
 
 “The sector 40 branch of the school has taken a bold and good step in not allowing her to teach here. She might not be directly responsible but the fact that such a thing happened under her watch is enough,” said Ramneek Vashistha, parent of a class 2 student. 
 
 
