Nagpur: In a bid to inculcate management skills among students,   (PCE), Hingna, held a session on Maratha warrior Shivaji’s principles.  , associate professor of SB Jain college of Management engaged over 200 students in sharing insights on Shivaji. 

 CN Sakhle, associate professor and coordinator of second shift,   department of PCE, said, “History can’t be created in a day. You need to work much to be remembered. We all want to do something and examples of historical figures like   can inspire many to create history.”
 
 He said Shivaji had excellent administrative skills but this was not studied in the right manner. “We only study him as a historical figure and forget, completely missing the lessons from his life. He had a large human resource and some expert leaders like Tanaji Malusare, Murarjibaji, Baji Prabhu Deshpande etc. They had unique skills and spying qualities. Shivaji held them together as he built his empire.”
 
 Sakhle cited the Afzal Khan episode to emphasize the planning Shivaji did before a fight. “He slew Afzal Khan. It was not outcome of a mere fight but the result of a well thought out plan. Shivaji used to train with a lookalike of Afzal Khan under different settings. He also did an overall background check of the rival’s army. Guerrilla warfare was first used by Shivaji in India.”
 
 Nitin Mandavgade, associate professor at the department, said examples from Shivaji’s life taught us how to deal with difficult challenges by keeping our head cool. “Nothing is impossible if done through proper planning. We know from history that even lost battles can be won,” he said.
 
 History teachers in city applauded the decision of PCE to look at Shivaji from a different perspective. Abhijit Mendhe, assistant professor, Vasantrao Naik Government Institute of Social Sciences and Arts, said, “It is interesting to look at his life from management point of view. Shivaji was a man of his times. He was a statesman like Akbar. He was a visionary, not a mere general if one may take the liberty to compare him with Bajirao. He saw beyond his time. Marathi kingdom was very small when Shivaji died but he had laid the foundation for it to continue to grow. He didn’t stick to traditions and was a practical man. If an engineering college wants to learn from him, then it is indeed good.”
 
 Pradit Thakkar, president of Rotary Mihan Town, Principal of PCE MP Singh, faculty in charge HK Dubey, organizer PCE Rotaract Club Suman Tekade, student president Adit Singh, secretary Rotaract PCE Veda Malorkar and project director Suhas Gainkar were present.
 
 
