GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister   said while inaugurating a stadium in Ahmedabad recently— that he wants to promote sports culture in India by launching the Khele India (India Plays) initiative across the country. The initiative has been planned on the lines of the Gujarat government’s ‘Khel Mahakumbh’, which was conceived by Modi when he was the chief minister.

  However, the Gujarat government has reversed a policy that would have played a part in championing Modi’s vision of sports culture — the state has scrapped a policy to create sports quota in jobs and higher education. Last September, the Gujarat government announced a sports policy under which it promised to reserve 2% of jobs and places in higher education for sportspersons. A notification was issued by the state’s sports, youth &   department. But it was withdrawn shortly afterwards. The government has now put the idea in cold storage.
 
 Job reservations would have benefitted sportspersons who have performed at the national and international levels, accommodating them directly in class I, II, and III government jobs. National-level players and those who have won medals in the previous two   were promised preference in admissions; the promise was not kept. 
 
 Class I jobs were promised to Olympic medal winners and Asian Games gold medallists. Class II jobs were to be offered to silver and and bronze medallists of Asian Games. And Group C (class III) government jobs were to be reserved for meritorious sportspersons. And 2% of seats in colleges — including engineering and medical — were to be reserved for sportspersons. Moreover, sportspersons with disabilities were promised special incentives, which were never notified.
 
 Rajendra Trivedi, Gujarat’s minister of state for sports, youth and & cultural affairs, said: “Some technical issues were raised by the general administration department, which said that our department does not have powers to give quotas.” He said that GAD can notify reservations. “We have requested it to do so as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 Nanu Vanani, Gujarat’s minister of state for education, said: “There were several technical issues, so quotas for sportspersons is not a state government priority as of now.” Vanani was the minister of state for sports, youth and & cultural affairs when the policy was announced. 
 
