LODHVA(Gir-Somnath): The   (NGT) has imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) for causing delay in hearing of petition seeking closure of   company, Indian Rayon, located in Veraval taluka of   district, on ground of gross violation of environment laws. The NGT, in its order issued last week, directed the GPCB to deposit penalty amount with the Gir-Somnath collector in a weeks time.

 The order was issued during hearing on plea of environment activist Bhagvan Solanki from Lodhva village of Gir-Somnath, who demanded shut down of Indian Rayon manufacturing plant in August 2015, on the grounds that the manufacturing activity at the unit generated toxic effluents as well as emitted foul odour. Solanki also alleged that the company was discharging hazardous chemicals in large quantity in   and Devaka river.
 
 The NGT observed that GPCB had last filed reply on December 10, 201, however, nobody from the pollution watchdog appeared to explain the facts revealed in its reply during subsequent hearings. “We find from the reply of GPCB that it (GPCB) had issued several show cause notices and directions to the Indian Rayon from the month of December 2014. However, nothing is placed before us to elaborate the factual background which preceded the show cause notices and the directions,” the NGT order stated.
 
 The NGT directed GPCB to produce all the relevant record concerning the show cause notices and directions. GPCB was also asked to place all the visit reports to Indian Rayon from August 2015 till date. “Respondent No.4-GPCB shall deposit an amount of Rs.10,000/- (Rs. Ten thousand) with the Collector, Gir Somnath, Gujarat within a week as a cost for adjourning this application,” the NGT order stated.
 
 Indian Rayon on its part submitted that their effluents are treated in its effluent treatment plant before the discharge into the Arabian Sea through underground pipeline. They also denied discharging effluent in Devaka River. It further submitted that its manufacturing activity generated gases, such as carbon disulphide, hydrogen sulphide, for the regulation of which it has installed air pollution control equipment and the gases thereafter are released through the chimney which is regularly monitored by the GPCB.
 
