Chennai: India has been named one of the least wasteful and sustainable economies in a study by the world Economic Forum. While per-capita emissions are amongst the lowest in the world, it is also the third biggest generator of emissions given its position as the world's third largest economy.

 India also has the largest number of people living below the international poverty line, which makes sustainability a challenge given the country's sheer size and rapid growth.
 
 “Sustainable and environmentally friendly practices and psyches still continue to be part of the lifestyle and culture. India has both a culture of hoarding (in case something might come in useful), and thriftiness (re-use and hand-me-downs). It is not an uncommon sight in an Indian household to witness an old cloth being used as a duster,” said the report. “Things which have absolutely no value, such as old newspapers and books, or utensils, can be easily sold off to a scrap dealers to be re-used or re-cycled. Bucket baths, sun- drying clothes, and hand-washing dishes are other widespread, sustainable practices. Culturally, there is also an aversion to wasting food,” the report added -- which has been based on data submitted at UN’s High Level Political Forum from the Voluntary National Review Report on Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals.
 
 The report also mentioned the that sustainability is a core component of Indian culture with many adhering to the yogic principle of aparigraha — non-attachment to materialistic possessions. It cited the Bishnoi community in the Jodhpur region, Rajasthan, for whom the protection of wildlife is part of their belief system.
 
 The World Economic Forum also cited India's occupying a top spot in the Greendex international report on sustainable living. 
 
 The study, compiled by National Geographic and Globescan, measures the way consumers are responding to environmental concerns and on indicators like housing, transport, food and goods, India occupies the top spot among 18 contenders, including China and the US. 
 
 “As the human population is exploding, resources are shrinking. Concerns loom everywhere, from declining pollinators affecting food security, to air and water pollution affecting the quality of life, and land shortage and degradation affecting both agriculture and biodiversity. This shows that Indian consumers are most conscious about their environmental footprint and are making the most sustainable choices,” said the report.
 
 
