BEIJING:   picked `La Decima' as the high point of his much-celebrated season.The world No.1, who struggled with injuries and confidence issues in 2016, rediscovered his inner steel to finish the   swing with two Major titles, the French and US Opens.

 “The beginning of the year was important for me,” the  's top-seed said. “But if I have to choose one thing, the clay court season was very emotional for me, concluding with Roland Garros.” The 31-year-old with stub born skillset and tireless spirit, clinched his tenth title in Paris.
 
 Nadal, who first climbed the pinnacle of the ATP Rankings nine years ago, reclaiming it again in August, has long hailed consistency and longevity, saying it was the truest test of competitive mettle.
 
 “First thing is about health.Without health, is impossible to stay (at the top) for that long. I had some injuries, but good thing is I keep having the passion for the game, love for what I am doing and the spirit to over come tough situations in terms of physical issues. That's the key,” he said. “Every day when I wake up, going on court with the goal of doing better than what I was doing.”
 
 Nadal faces 23-year-old Frenchman Lucas Pouille in the first round on Tuesday.
 
 While the Spaniard won their first meeting two years ago on clay, rather easily at that, for the loss of just three games, he suffered a difficult reverse in their next encounter at the Open last year. Nadal lost a fifth set tie-break in the round of 16 that underlined a poor season.
 
 “He has a great level of tennis. Hopefully he will not finish the season that well because I play tomorrow against him,” the Spaniard said smiling.
 
 Nadal, who along with Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray completes tennis' fab four quartet, said that he hoped fans would remember them as the `history of our sport' when they were all done with their professional careers.
 
 The foursome between them have 50 Grand Slam singles crowns. “I hope people remember that it was a good time to keep promoting our sport and to keep bringing our sport to the next level of communication and interest around the world,” he said adding, “At the same time it is important that the people remember us as good persons.”
 
 Rafa wants to cry over Catalan vote
 
 Rafael Nadal said on Monday he was stunned and felt like crying following a banned independence referendum in Catalonia and a police crackdown.Sunday's plebiscite was organised under the threat of reprisals and criminal charges but thousands of Catalans stood in defiance of the central government in Madrid.Nadal, a national hero in Spain who spoke out before the referendum to condemn it, was visibly moved as he addressed a press conference in Beijing, where he starts his assault on the China Open on Tuesday.
 
 Nadal said: “I want to cry when I see a country where we have known how to co-exist and be a good example to the rest of the world get to a situation like this. The 16-time Grand Slam winner added: “It was a sad moment, my heart sank all day.
 
 
