THANE: The   of a nine-year-old girl, who witnessed a   in a neighbouring room, nailed two accused, who were sentenced to life imprisonment by a district court here.

 Sessions judge Vilas V Bambarde convicted Kamlibai Waghe (46) and Faruk Khan, and fined them Rs 500 each. Another accused, Vijay Pawar (40) was acquitted by giving him the benefit of the doubt. The prosecutor told court that Pawar was the deceased Shivaji Jadhav’s friend, and Waghe was his “keep”. Pawar had suspected his wife was having an extramarital affair with Jadhav.
 
 On October 2, 2010, the victim had dinner with his friend and at 8.30pm, he left Waghe’s room in Gayatri Nagar,  . Later, there was a tiff between Waghe and Jadhav, after which she called her friend Dara Paswan aka Lambu Bhaiyya and Khan.
 
 The court was told that Waghe and Khan caught hold of Shivaji, while Paswan killed him with a sickle. Subsequently, the body was kept behind the house at night. The killing was at Pawar’s instance, the court was told. The prosecution said the tiff was due to Waghe’s refusal to have sex with Jadhav. 
 
 When Jadhav started abusing her, Waghe got Paswan and Khan to eliminate him, the prosecution said.
 
 The court was told that there was a tin partition between the house of Kamlibai and the neigbhour, whose daughter saw the killing. The girl said Paswan and Jadhav quarrelled, after which he flung chilli powder on his eyes and assaulted him. Then, Waghe and Khan caught hold of Jadhav, while Paswan put a rope around his neck, and Khan throttled him. Later, Kamlibai cut his throat with the sickle. 
 
 The court was told that the next morning, the accused reassembled and cut the victim’s body into pieces, and detached his head and left leg, according to the girl. She even heard Pawar saying the work of eliminating Jadhav had been done. The accused packed the body in a gunny bag, and threw some body parts behind the house of Fatte Mohammad Shah at Dongarpada. The head was found 200 feet away, and the left leg in nearby bushes.
 
 Eleven witnesses testified but the lone eyewitness turned the tables against the accused. 
 
 The judge said, “It is very important to note that the nine-year-old’s testimony, after careful scrutiny, appears reliable.”
 
