NEW DELHI: The rule being amended to pave way for India's first no-fly list (NFL) itself was enacted in 2014 after an instance of unruly passenger behaviour on an   flight. The aircraft was flying from the Gulf to south India. However, due to bad weather at the destination, it could not land and had to be diverted to a nearby airport. 

  "That flight had a woman pilot. After it landed at the other airport, some passengers trooped into the cockpit demanding to know why it did not fly to their destination and when they would go there. The pilot, who was not at fault, was petrified and reported this passenger behaviour to the airline, which took the issue up with the regulator," said a senior official of   ( ). 
 
 After this, the DGCA issued a civil aviation requirement (CAR) on November 18, 2014, which termed "unruly/disruptive behaviour onboard aircraft an offence" and a punishable act. 
 
 "Passengers who are likely to be unruly and disruptive must be carefully monitored, and, if necessary, refused embarkation or be off-loaded if deemed to pose a threat to the safety and security of the flight, fellow passengers or staff while on board the aircraft," it said.
 
 This rule was good till March 23, 2017, when Shiv Sena MP   beat up an   official inside an aircraft with slippers. In an unprecedented move in India, an enraged AI management immediately barred Gaikwad from its flights and all other airlines followed suit. A fortnight later, the   ordered airlines to start flying Gaikwad again, citing weak regulations on the issue of unruly passengers. 
 
 While issuing the draft for new rules, aviation secretary R N Choubey spoke about the weakness of the 2014 rule. "That rule lacked clarity and had two main shortcomings. One, it did not specify the period for which a passenger should remain off board (not fly). Secondly, there was no appeal provisions (against grounding decision) in that. We have strengthened that CAR in the draft prepared now and will further improve it based on suggestions we get from public and other stakeholders," he said.
 
 In fact, while directing airlines on April 7 to revoke the flying ban on Gaikwad, the aviation ministry brass had said it had to do so as that ban would not have stood in court. The reason: There was no provision in the 2014 to ground an unruly flyer for a long period.
 
  However, while preparing the new rule that provides for a no-fly list, the authorities are worried it should not be used against passengers. "Don't look at the new rules from the angle of Gaikwad alone. Now, airlines will be empowered to ground anyone, even if some passenger gets worked up due to deficiency in service like flight getting delayed for several hours due to non-availability of pilots. We will have to provide adequate safeguards against the misuse of the grounding provision," said a senior official. 
 
 
