LUCKNOW: In the next 10 days, one-third of   shops in the city will close business following Supreme Court order against liquor vending on state and national highways. Tipplers were disappointed with the news but commoners were happy as they expect the roadside nuisance to be curbed.

 On December 15, the apex court directed state governments to ban liquor vending on national and state highways to bring down incidents of drunken driving. The order will impact 192 liquor   within Lucknow district out of the total 601 model,   and beer shops.
 
 “Surrounded by five national highways and two state highways in Lucknow district, 55km of the road stretch comes under the purview of the order,” said additional excise department Ram Sagar Tiwari who looks after licensing for liquor trade in UP.
 
 Directed to curb   liquor business completely by April 1, excise department has renewed licence of shops located at least 550 metres away from the nearest highway.
 
 On Tuesday, liquor shop owners’ association met the excise commissioner to resolve some confusion. Chief of the association, S P Singh said owners of 16 shops located in densely populated localities in Old City have also been served notice. “Our shops are within the city. We deposited the fee on March 15 and excise department accepted it. But to our surprise, we got eviction order from district administration on March 18 to vacate the shop within two days,” said Kanhaiya Lal Maurya. Singh’s and Maurya’s shops are located in Chowk and Thakurganj.
 
 The department charges Rs 40 lakh to allow operation of model shop for a year. For beer and English wine shops, licence fee varies according to demand and supply dynamics set by the department.
 
 The news of shops shutting down was welcomed by residents. A homemaker from Viram Khand who stays close to   crossing, Vandana Sinha is one such. “I avoid crossing the model shop located near Husadia as people park vehicles in the middle of the road and drink publicly,” said Vandana. Since the shop is located close to Shaheed Path, the owner has been asked to shut down business.
 
 Tiwari said the department was making the final list and on March 23, compliance report will be prepared and forwarded to the government. “Limited number of fresh licences have been given out this time and revenue will come down,” added Tiwari.
 
