THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The interlocutory application filed by the state in the   seeking clarification in the verdict to remove all the   within 500 metres limits of national and state highways is a contradiction to the   framed by the state itself.

 The state’s petition in the Supreme Court has prayed that the court modify the judgment passed by it on December 15, “to exempt toddy, beer and wine from the definition of liquor and thereby exempt toddy, beer and wine from the purview of the judgment”. But according to Section 3 (10) of the Abkari Act, “liquor includes spirits of wine, arrack, spirits, wine, toddy, beer and all liquids consisting of or containing alcohol”.
 
 Government sources said that unless the state amends the definition of liquor in its own Abkari Act before moving the Supreme Court with such a request, it is most likely to backfire. Also, the petition says that the alcohol content in toddy, which is sourced from palm sap and coconut flowers is 5-10% and since the alcohol content is less, the sale of these cannot be termed as sale of liquor.
 
 Meanwhile, the state is fighting a case in the Supreme Court (Komalan vs state of Kerala) in which the state argues that the alcohol content in toddy, under no circumstances can be more than 8.1%. “The current petition is likely to adversely hit the case relating to toddy, pending before the Supreme Court,” sources said.
 
 Interestingly, along with   (Bevco), the petition has also prayed the court to exempt another corporation that has nothing to do with sale of liquor, from relocating its liquor outlets from the highways. It says that the court should exempt   (Supplyco) from relocating its liquor outlets, when the actual prayer should have been for Consumerfed.
 
 The state moved the court on the basis of a legal opinion from advocate general C P Sudhakara Prasad. Most of the other states have already approached the court with the petition, as the time granted by the court to implement its order will come to a close by March 31. In its petition, the state has also requested the court to extent the time to relocate liquor outlets for another year, till April 1, 2018.
 
 While there are 306 outlets under the Bevco and Consumerfed (FL-1 licenses), there are 31 bar hotels (FL-3 license holders), 34 clubs that have the permit to sell liquor (FL-4A) and 815 beer and wine parlours (FL-11 license holders) in the state. In addition, there are also 23 FL-9 license holders which are the KSBC warehouses, many of them are located along the state and national highways.
 
