JAIPUR: Tomato prices which shoot up over Rs 100 per kg in   have made it virtually absent from daily meal of Jaipurites. In addition to that, prices of other   too have turned into   in the city.

 Spike in prices of tomatoes is attributed to shrink in supply from Maharashtra and crop failure in Southern India. The traders have warned of no respite till mid of August when fresh crop will come other parts of the country.
 
 Tomatoes in   (wholesale) on Thursday was sold at Rs 65 to Rs 70 per kg while in retail it was sold between Rs 80 per kg to Rs 100 per kg depending on the location. 
 
 “Against arrival of 65-70 trucks daily only 3-4 are coming these days. Even from them only half of the stock is getting unloaded while remaining is going to Delhi,” said Radhey Shyam Phatak, president, Rajasthan Phal Sabzi Aaloo Thok Vyapar Mahasangh. 
 
 Retailers in Lal Kothi Sabzi Mandi vegetable market where the tomato price ranged from Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg are now banking fresh supply from Solan in Himachal Pradesh (HP). 
 
 “Nashik supply will soon dry as next crop is late by month. Customers will now get taste of tomatoes if traders in HP start sending it to Rajasthan, though that variety of tomato perishes fast and not preferred by customers here,” Abdul Rashid, who deals only in Tomatoes. 
 
 Other vegetables too are burning hole in customers’ pocket. On an average, traders say, there has been a 20%-30% increase in wholesale prices of green leafy and other seasonal vegetables in the mandis, while in retail market the increase is anywhere between 50%-150%.
 
 Wholesale dealers claim that there is no government control on retailers. "The wholesale prices have gone up by 10%-20%. But the retailers are making a killing in the name of short supply. Government should act otherwise, vegetables will become too costly for a common man" added Phatak. 
 
 Though according to vegetable vendors increase in vegetable prices during the rainy season is common. “Due to heavy rains, vegetables get damaged. This causes shortage of supplies as compared to the demand, thus, causing increase in prices” said Manoj Rajani, a vegetable vendor in Gandhi Nagar. 
 
 
