Nagpur: On one hand, the state government is reducing expenses on all fronts in view of the cash crunch and on the other, it is not comprising with the lavish comforts provided to the VIPs. The division no 1 of public works department, Nagpur, has floated a tender which shows that the department intends to spend about Rs13 crore on maintenance of VIP buildings in the city. Such amounts are spent every year even as these buildings are not even used for a month in the whole year. Maintenance of these buildings is done every year, which raises question mark on quality of work done by division no 1 of Nagpur PWD. Moreover, money spent on works seems to be on the higher side. This is not the only expenditure on VIPs. Over Rs 5crore are spent every year in providing servants to them during the winter session of the state assembly.  PWD does not seem to have learnt from its past mistakes. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has suspended 24 engineers, who were posted in division I between 2006 and 2010, for their involvement in Rs119 crore scam in repair and maintenance of Ramgiri, Devgiri, MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Nag Bhavan and other VIP buildings. As per the tender, PWD will spend Rs5.60 crore on MLA Hostel alone. Next comes Ravi Bhavan with Rs2.58 crore expenditure and the third is Vidhan Bhavan with Rs1.36 crore. Other buildings which will be spruced up for the session include Nag Bhavan (Rs65 lakh), Hyderabad House (Rs18 lakh), New Hyderabad House (Rs18 lakh), 160 Tenements (Rs99 lakh), Suyog (Rs24 lakh), Ramgiri (Rs14.5 lakh), Deogiri (Rs81 lakh) and Chief Secretary’s Bungalow (Rs7 lakh). At present the state does not have a deputy chief minister. Even then, PWD is spending Rs81 lakh on the maintenance of Deogiri because PWD minister Chandrakant Patil holds the department’s portfolio. The flagrant misuse of public money is apparent. Division No 1 intends to spend Rs50 lakh on renovation of suits in Building Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Ravi Bhavan. Similar amount will be spent on renovation of suits No 101 to 208 in 40 suited building in Ravi Bhavan. Renovation of state ministers’ cottages Nos 10 to 16 in Nag Bhavan will cost Rs40 lakh. The department will spend Rs40 lakh on road repair in Ravi Bhavan and Nag Bhavan. Superintending engineer Prashant Navghare refused to comment on the issue. Sanjay Indurkar, executive engineer of PWD Nagpur’s division no 1, justified the huge expenditure. “It is required as the buildings are maintained all year round. Last year too, we had spent a similar amount,” he told TOI. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar, who has been highlighting PWD’s excesses, alleged a scam in the works. “By no stretch of imagination can such huge expenditure be required on buildings which are not even used for a month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis talk about transparency all the time. Is this transparency?” he said. Wadpalliwar further claimed that he was provided list of maintenance works done in VIP buildings in 2016 under Right to Information (RTI) Act. “The total came to Rs5.29 crore. Now, PWD says that it spends Rs13 crore every year. I will file an appeal against Indurkar for providing me incomplete information,” he said.