PURULIA: Netra Podder, a student of   in  , would play with 5-year-old Rupa in her village. She found out that Rupa did not go to school as her family could not bear the expenses. Netra, who is part of the   scheme, withdrew Rs 750 from her account and gave the money to Rupa’s parents for her schooling.

 Piu Kumari, a Class X student, had seen many girls her age get married in her remote village of Beladi. The daughter of a farmer, she thought her parents would make her follow suit. However, she attended the adolescent empowerment programme (AEP) at her school, and fought off the pressure to marry and continued with her studies.
 
 Thousands of girls between 9 and 12 years, across 10 blocks and three municipalities in Purulia, are finding the tools to pursue their dreams through AEP, a joint initiative of the Purulia district administration and Unicef. This programme, launched in 2015, aims at reduction in child marriage and teen pregnancy and improvement in education for adolescents, with special emphasis on girls in Kanyashree. Several grassroots organizations are assisting as implementing partners.
 
 Purulia district magistrate   said: “We have undertaken several initiatives to address issues in the district, including increasing girls’ access to education and healthcare services, sensitizing parents and communities on the ill effects of child marriage, increasing economic support to families through Kanyashree Prakalpa and strengthening and enforcing laws that protect adolescents from exploitation.” 
 
 Roy added that there are 173 Kanyashree clubs in Purulia. “We have so far sensitized a total of 61,925 girls and 9,046 boys,” Roy said.
 
 “We are constantly working to bring as many girls and boys under AEP,” said Swapnadipa Biswas, who is working as an adolescent engagement specialist for Unicef in Purulia.
 
 Kanyashree clubs in schools are working as a platform to educate girls on acceptable practices and enhance their social consciousness. To further strengthen the programme, 347 village-level child protection committees have been formed .
 
 The girls said they had hugely benefited from AEP. “We have been successful in bringing our friends back to school by preventing child marriages. A Class X girl’s family wanted to marry her off but we, through our Kanyashree club, managed to persuade them not to do so,” said Maya Mukherjee and Sweta Sinha, students of Jhalda Girls High School. 
 
 Apart from community-based initiatives through AEP Unicefin coordination with the district administration is also working to provide counselling services to adolescents at ‘Anwesha’ clinics. Additionally, to emphasize the importance of safe health practices, sanitary napkin vending machines have been installed in various schools, colleges and in these clinics on a pilot basis. 
 
 “We are getting tremendous help from the Anwesha clinics. Often there are issues that we want to talk about but can’t tell anybody. We get friendly guidance from the clinics and feel free to express ourselves there,” said  , a student.
 
 
