AHMEDABAD: The CBI arrested on Wednesday four accused, including the assistant general manager and former senior manager of Bank of India, Ghoddod Road branch in Surat, for facilitating deposit of Rs 24.35 crore in highvalue denomination notes in a bank account post-demonetization.

 In their remand application before the special CBI judge P G Gokani, investigating officials claimed that the arrested persons had allegedly used a Jan Dhan account to convert black money into new denomination notes.The accused allegedly first deposited Rs 24.35 crores in the account of SR Traders belonging to one Sunil Rupani.
 
 CBI sources claim they suspect the amount was transferred into 225 savings accounts, including Jan Dhan accounts. The accused have be en sent on a two-day remand by the special court. CBI has also summoned five other bank officials of the Surat People's Co-operative bank in connection with the case. The CBI arrested Bank of India's AGM J L Bansal and former senior manager N L Gamit with   of Maharshi Traders and Himanshu Shah of Maganlal Gulabchand Choksi. The four were produced in the CBI court in Ahmedabad. The four are among the seven accused in two separate offences registered by the CBI wherein unaccounted cash worth Rs 60.52 crore was deposited in BOI's Ghoddod branch and Surat People's Cooperative Bank. The other three accused are Sunil Rupani of SR Traders, Ami Tambakuwala of Kruti creations and chartered accountant Ankur Bijaka. According to CBI sources, the accused entered into criminal conspiracy and com mitted forgery to deposit a total of Rs 60.52 crore -in two tranches of Rs 24.35 crore and Rs 36.17 crore -with the intention of converting black money into white. “ After the cash was deposited, the money was transferred via RTGS into the accounts of Surat-based Shah   and Kruti creations along with other 225 accounts,“ a top CBI official said.
 
 ACBI official said, “During initial inquiry by the IT department it came to light that Maharshi Chokkas of Surat who is related to Sunil Rupani was instrumental in depositing the money received from bullion trading post demonetization. The deposits were made in collusion with Bansal and Gamit.“ Another offence registered pertains to Chokkas opening an account in the name of one Nirav &Co at SPBC's Navapura branch.“This account was operated by Himanshu Shah and Rs 36.17 crore was deposited in it from four branches of SPCB,“ added a CBI source. “The investigations are still on and possibility of more accused being arrested cannot be ruled out“ added a senior CBI official. It is worthy to note that CBI on Monday had conducted searches at about 12 places in Surat including residences and offices of the seven accused as well as Bansal's house in Jaipur. “We have seized some incriminating documents and computers from the bank and residence of the accused and have sent them for forensic examination to FSL“ added a CBI source.
 
