PNAJI: To assert its role in the   Region, India is sharing military equipment with neighbouring friendly nations and strengthening bilateral cooperation. Even as India seeks exchange of expertise in naval shipbuilding from South Korea, the country is helping equip its neighbouring nations with key naval platforms to boost bilateral ties, said secretary for defence production,   Gupta, on Tuesday.

 Talking about India’s moves to increase indigenization and strengthen international defence industry cooperation, Gupta announced that the ministry of defence had inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in naval shipbuilding with South Korea.
 
 “From a buyer’s navy, we went to a builder’s navy, and now, we are becoming designer’s navy. This is an important step in our move towards indigenization. South Korea is our strategic partner, and in naval shipbuilding, we want to move ahead with them. Their naval shipbuilding technology is quite advanced. A government-to-government agreement has been inked, and together, we will build platforms,” Gupta said while speaking to reporters after the launch of an advanced off-shore patrol vessel (OPV), built for Sri Lanka.
 
 Goa Shipyard Ltd launched the second off-shore patrol vessel for the Sri Lankan Navy, days after it delivered a fast patrol vessel to Mauritius. The 105m-long ship has been launched less than 23 months after Goa Shipyard laid its keel.
 
 “India has the capability to build such vessels and give them to friendly countries. We are cooperating with all our neighbourhood countries, and wherever we have weapons, we can cooperate and be a partner in their security setup. From that perspective, Sri Lanka is an important partner in our bilateral relationship and this OPV is a major milestone in our bilateral relationship,” Gupta said.
 
 “Though Goa Shipyard is currently the largest exporter of ships in India, with 30% of turnover coming from exports, the orders are now drying up and Goa Shipyard could soon be operating at 50% of its production capacity if new orders do not pour in, chairman and managing director of Goa Shipyard, Shekhar Mital, said.
 
