LUCKNOW: The doughty warrior of Indian politics,  , who has weathered many a political storm in his more than half-decade-long political journey, has been challenged by his son to claim his political legacy.

 The shift in power has now put a question on his political future – with age and health not on his side, will this “dharti putra” (son of the soil) of Uttar Pradesh survive this political battle to emerge the undisputed leader again or fade into the sunset.
 
 The turn of events in the last few days point towards the fact that he has lost majority of the support of party functionaries and legislators, which could be because   Yadav stands for youth and symbolizes the future of the party. 
 
 However,   will not let his political obituary be written in this manner.
 
 Having been dislodged from the post of the national president of the Samajwadi Party by Akhilesh, whom he had made the chief minister of the country’s largest state, Mulayam is gearing up to retaliate and has called a meeting of the national executive of the party to decide future course of action to regain the party.
 
 Mulayam found it hard to believe that those close to him were thrown out of the party office and party supporters stormed the office.
 
 Prominent among those who had attended Akhilesh Yadav’s show including Ram Gopal  , Kiranmoy Nanda and Naresh Agarwal, have been dismissed from the party by Mulayam for anti-party activity. All the three grew in the party and attainted positions in Rajya Sabha with his blessings.
 
 For Mulayam, it is now a big challenge to hold the national convention of the party at the same venue and show his strength.
 
 In his long political career, Mulayam uprooted the powerful Congress from Uttar Pradesh, dared storm troopers of the BJP-RSS-Bajrang Dal combine in the Ramjanmabhoomi movement and, in his own words, in order to uphold the spirit of the Constitution and law of the land he ordered firing on Hindu kar sewaks to protest the disputed Babri mosque in Ayodhya in 1990.
 
 Despite formidable opponents in the Congress and BJP, Mulayam became chief minister of the state three times and formed government in 2012 with historic mandate with Akhilesh Yadav as its face.
 
 Facing opposition from his brother and senior party leader Shivpal Yadav and a section of others, Mulayam handed over the reins of the state to Akhilesh and declared him as his political successor his legacy.
 
 
