New Delhi: The Community Centre at New Friends Colony is a popular hangout for foodies, mostly youngsters. On Saturday, however, staff of the numerous restaurants loitered around, waiting for customers. Not many ventured to the complex located around 100 metres from National Highway 19 after the   against sale of   within 500 metres of all highways came into effect.

 “The excise department asked us to stop serving alcohol from today because of some distance issue until further notice,” said one of the employees of  , an Asian restaurant, while directing men carrying crates of a high-end brand of beer out of the eatery. 
 
 The ban has left restaurant owners in a big predicament. Having run their businesses here for years, they had no inkling of a disaster of this sort and had paid huge amounts to renew their liquor licences. The sudden roadblock in the sale of alcohol saw Saturday with piles of unopened crates outside the service entrances of the restaurants.
 
 Ashish Ahuja, director of Cafe Pebble Street and restaurant Moksha, said the ban has hit his very livelihood. “I have run Pebble Street for 18 years now. It is one of the few restaurants in the area to have stood the test of time,” he said. “But I am 42 now. Following this ban, am I expected to start from scratch? I am going to incur very heavy losses.”
 
 Ahuja described the ban as ill-placed. “I work with a valid licence and serve alcohol legally to customers,” he said, “so how can I be held responsible for what they might do outside the restaurant? The government has trouble reigning mischief makers, and targeting my honest earnings instead.”
 
 Garment salesman Ravi, however, was happy that the step would rid the market area of social nuisance. “People come here, sit in cars and get intoxicated. They then harass the women,” said Ravi. 
 
 A few kilometres away, along the same highway, liquor stores in the Jasola area had mixed luck. At least three big liquor stores at the commercial centre were shut down. A security guard said that the shop owners had cancelled new consignments and were in fact contemplating new shops further down the road. However, in the mall at Jasola, a short distance away, at least four vends were open as usual. “We are safe,” smiled a salesman at one. “Excise officials had conducted a survey 15 days ago and informed us that we were around 600 metres from the highway.”
 
