MUMBAI: The   has asked a   booked on assault charges in a fight over parking space to pay Rs 10,000 to a charitable organization if he wants the case against him to be quashed.

  The court was hearing a petition filed by Tushar Kapoor that he had settled the case with the complainant, Malad resident Mithul Shah, who he had allegedly attacked with a  . 
 
 A division bench of Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai indicated that he could not get the case quashed easily as they had approached the police. “Donate to any charitable organisation of your choice and produce the receipt,” the bench said and scheduled the matter for further hearing on March 29.
 
 On October 14, 2016, around 6.30pm, Shah returned from work and parked his vehicle at his usual spot near his home. He inquired about the vehicle parked next to his and learnt that it belonged to Kapoor. An altercation followed and Kapoor allegedly pushed Shah and injured his eyes with a bunch of keys. Based on Shah’s complaint, the police arrested Kapoor the same day for offences under the Indian Penal Code, including for causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means. If convicted, Kapoor would face a maximum punishment of up to 10 years in jail. He was released on bail the next day and the police filed a charge sheet against him in December 2016. 
 
 In his petition before the court, Kapoor claimed that the elders of both families intervened and settled the case. He also claimed that he had paid the medical bills incurred by Shah, who had consented to dropping the criminal case. “The dispute occurred because of a minor issue over parking and both sides have settled the matter among themselves,” the petition said. “If the prosecution is continued, the life of the family will become miserable and their future will be at stake,” said Kapoor, urging the court to quash the criminal proceedings. 
 
 Under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the high court is empowered to pass orders, including striking down FIRs, to prevent abuse of the process of any court.
 
 
