NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   exhorted students and their families on Sunday to treat exams as a festival and not as a burden. He asked them not to take exams as “test of life” and advised parents to accept children as they are and not burden them with expectations. He also urged students to compete with themselves, not with others. 

 As the examination season is round the corner, the PM devoted a major portion of his speech during his monthly radio broadcast ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on exams and advised students and their parents on how to take them while urging the latter to lay emphasis on three points — acceptance, mentoring and sharing time. “Success and failure in life is not determined at all by how one has done at the examination. This is a burden from which you must free yourself,” Modi said. 
 
 To drive home his point, the PM gave the example of A P J   and said the former President had appeared for the test for recruitment into the IAF but failed. “Now, suppose this failure had caused him to become dejected, to concede defeat in his life, then would India have found such a great scientist and such a glorious President? No, never,” he said. 
 
 Modi stressed on learning and gaining knowledge, and asked students not to go for “competition with others” and rather focus on competing with themselves. “...It is competing with ourselves, or ‘anuspardha’, which takes our life forward,” the PM said. Citing the example of cricketer Sachin  , he said, “He (Tendulkar) kept on breaking his own records consecutively and consistently for about 20 years, every time surpassing and outdoing himself and thus continuously forging ahead...” 
 
 Modi later tweeted, “Look at the life of Sachin Tendulkar. He kept challenging himself and bettered his own records. That is what is inspiring.” Tendulkar later thanked the PM for the mention in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and tweeted how preparation was key for everyone, be it a student or a player. “Thank you @PMOIndia for the mention. Preparation is key for everyone... be it a student or a player. Focus makes the challenge less daunting,” he tweeted.
 
