Just when the officials from the I&B ministry were planning to make ' ' series the Make In India mascot to promote Indian cinema abroad, the pirate bay was busy doing its work. The film was leaked online just a day after the I&B minister,  , called it a "shining example of Make In India." Talking about the success of the film, he said, "PM Modi has given a call of Make In India, which also applies to films and there have been many films of this sort. The latest example is 'Baahubali', which has seen great success all over the world. This is a shining example of Make In India."

  
  Leaked prints of many films find their way online either before or right after their release, and the culprits are almost never caught
 
  
  
 
  The very next day, the 'example', it seems, was available online for everyone to see. People took to social media and posted the link to the film and those who really wanted to know the answer to "Katappa ne Baahubali ko kyun maara?" watched the pirated version. A viewer in Kuwait allegedly streamed the movie live on Facebook for nearly an hour before it was released. Before this, an unedited battle scene was also leaked online. The producer of the series, Shobu Yarlagadda, in an attempt to clear the air, tweeted, "Except for screening to various "censor boards" in different countries, there have been no screenings of @BaahubaliMovie2 till now anywhere." When we talked to some of the exhibitors in Delhi, here's what they had to say:
 
 
 The film is celebrating record box office collection and the exhibitors say that the pirated version might not affect the box office since it is dubbed and not in HD.  , corporate head of Wave Cinemas, says, "It is indeed sad when a film like 'Baahubali' is leaked online. When productions with such huge budgets are not able to stop their film from being leaked online, how can small budget films be saved? The only silver lining that we see here is that it is not an HD version, so it will not deter people from coming to cinema halls. At least we hope so." Tinku Singh, the group president and chief strategy officer of SRS cinemas says, "I got to know about the film being leaked online from my team. The leak is not shocking anymore as all the big-budget films including 'Udta Punjab', 'Dangal', 'Sultan' and others were also leaked. It has become so common these days. It is a blockbuster and the film has earned crores so far. But of course, the business will be affected in single screens because of the availability of the pirated version." Although no one knows when action will be taken against the pirates, the exhibitors maintain that unless the I&B ministry formulates guidelines and curb piracy with the help of police, such incidents will continue.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  A still from 'Begum Jaan'
 
 
  
    in a still from 'Sultan'
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Prasad Devineni, one of the producers of the film says that there are various versions of the film, which have been released, the original print, however, has not yet been made available online. He says, "The various versions of 'Baahubali 2' that you see online are mainly camera prints and screen grabs. The original copy of the film, in its full version, has not been leaked. We have close to 100 people in Andhra Pradesh working constantly on pulling down any such print of the film as and when it appears online. We have taken another step by creating and streaming dummy torrents that confuse downloaders. We are also working closely with the anti-piracy cell which is a part of our film chamber, as well as the Cyber Crime Cell in Andhra Pradesh. They are doing everything to ensure that the leak is controlled. The investigation on source of the online leak is currently on. It is extremely difficult to take legal action against those responsible for these leaks. The servers where the leaks originate are in another country. By the time we get our government to speak to the originating country's government, the damage is already done. We are doing the next best thing, which is damage control. As far as the business is concerned, it does affect us to some extent. But for a film like Baahubali 2, which everybody understands is a big-screen experience, the damage is not too much."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
