NEW DELHI: Hundreds of traders took out a march on Tuesday afternoon in   against New Delhi Municipal Council’s ( ) plan to make Connaught Place a vehicle-free zone. With placards in their hands, they shouted slogans like, “Save CP, Save Business”, and marched through the Inner and Outer Circles of the market dotted with heritage buildings.

 Connaught Place sees a daily footfall of 5 lakh and traders fear they will lose business if the entry of vehicles is banned. Around 1,200 small and big shops, along with 250 eateries, were shut till 3pm on Tuesday. The shopkeepers threatened to continue their protest if NDMC did not pay any heed to their demand.
 
 The protesters gathered outside C block around 11.30am and marched across the Inner Circle. Some of their placards read, “Save CP from vehicular ban” and “NDMC chairman, step down”.
 
 Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA), said NDMC had proposed two alternatives but the traders would not accept them. Their demand is: NDMC should regulate and manage the traffic rather than imposing a ban on vehicles, he added.
 
 “We have worked too hard all these years and we cannot let the government play with our livelihood only because they want to implement some fancy idea. There are practical problems with the plan. There is no basic infrastructure in place and regular customers will stop coming to Connaught Place if the traffic curb is enforced,” said Bhargava. “Moreover, the weather condition will be harsh from March and no one will be willing to park their vehicle on Baba Kharak Singh Marg and walk till the Inner Circle. Senior citizens and the differently-abled will suffer the most.” 
 
 Restaurant owners and their staff also joined the protest march. Akshay Nayyar, the owner of Unplugged Courtyard, said, “What may work in Europe and other western countries may not work here. Their system is different and so is the volume of traffic. If the traffic movement in the Inner Circle stops for a day, the Outer Circle will get choked. If you do this for three consecutive months, then there will be chaos.”
 
 However, NDMC is sticking to its stand, saying that the project cannot be scrapped. NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said there were three multilevel parking lots at Palika Bazar, Baba Kharak Singh Marg and Shivaji Stadium, which can accommodate up to 4,000 vehicles. “These parking lots are not being utilised to their full capacity. If people start parking their vehicles at these designated spots and take a battery-operated vehicle to reach the Inner Circle, then our idea will automatically get fulfilled,” added Kumar. 
 
 NDMC secretary Chanchal Yadav said that the council had submitted the proposal to NDTA and asked for its suggestions.
 
 
