SANGRUR: Sangrur police have booked the assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the   (GRP) who had allegedly misbehaved with an amritdhari (baptised Sikh) girl on board a   (PRTC) bus en route from Sangrur to Samana on July 21.

 A case under sections 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty) and 295A (hurting religious feelings) of the   was registered against ASI   Singh, who is posted at Sangrur, at the   police station.
 
 Police claimed that the accused would soon be arrested. Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) had written a letter to his Sangrur counterpart on Sunday as the incident of outraging the girl’s modesty had occurred under the jurisdiction of the Dirba police. The police claimed that the state statement of the girl had been recorded by the investigating officer under Section 164 of the CrPC.
 
 ASI Didar, who was reportedly drunk, had misbehaved with the Sikh girl while they were travelling from Sangrur to Patran in Patiala district. The accused asked her why she was wearing the kirpan. He allegedly told the girl they generally got the kirpans and kachhehras (worn by baptised Sikhs) removed in the police stations. He allegedly held the girl’s hand and forced her to sit along with him.
 
 While some of the bus passengers objected to the offending behaviour of the policeman, one Jaswinder Singh, who had reportedly got into a scuffle with Didar in the bus, had later thrashed him in full public view after they got down at the Patran bus stand on Friday.
 
 Videos recorded by some bystanders at the Patran bus stand and on board the PRTC bus had gone viral on the social media.
 
 Patran station house officer (SHO) Amanpal Singh said they were yet to take any action in the incident. He said thus far only Didar had given his statement in which he had claimed that Jaswinder had thrashed him without any provocation.
 
 The SHO said they were yet to record the statement of Jaswinder who had not turned up at the police station. The incident had upset some of the Sikh organisations who visited the Patran police station on Sunday and sought action against the accused cop.
 
