PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Thursday returned the Law Commission’s questionnaire on   ( ), saying “the questions have been framed in such a manner so as to force the respondent ( ) to reply in a specific way”.

 In a two-page letter to the commission chairman Justice B S Chauhan, Nitish said there are leading questions with limited number of choices given as probable answers, denying the respondent (Bihar government) enough scope to frame its own independent replies. “Therefore, it is not possible to send a question-wise reply,” he said. 
 
 The CM has also pointed out that his government was unable to form an opinion on UCC in the absence of any specific or concrete information about its contours and lack of consensus among religious groups on it.
 
 “The details of the proposed UCC have not been so far shared with the stakeholders for their comments. In the absence of any specific or concrete information about the contours of the UCC proposed by the central government, it will not be possible to form any opinion on the same. The Centre should share the proposed UCC with all the stakeholders,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, said.
 
 The CM has also asked the Centre not to act in haste on the issue and let various religious communities debate on it. “It is desirable that the whole idea of scrapping various personal laws and replacing the same with the UCC is first put to debate in the Parliament as well as legislative assemblies of the states and other forums in the civil society before the Centre thinks of going ahead,” the CM said.
 
 “We must not forget that ours is a nation based on a delicate balance in respect of laws and governing principles for different religions and ethnic groups. In any case, imposition of the UCC without forming a consensus among the various religious groups, especially the minorities, will create a situation of social discord and lead to erosion of faith in the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion,” Nitish wrote in his letter.
 
 Earlier, while addressing JD(U)’s national council meet at Rajgir on October 16-17 last year, Nitish, while opposing the Centre's move to impose UCC on triple talaq issue had asked, “Who are you to impose a uniform civil code? Let us leave it for Muslims to decide.” 
 
 
