NEW DELHI: The Pakistan government discovered the verdict on   at the same time Indians did - at 2pm on April 10. With foreign minister Sushma Swaraj ratcheting up the diplomatic rhetoric, ties with Pakistan just went down several notches.

 The progress of the secret military trial against Jadhav was obviously kept out of view of even the civilian government. It was only a statement read out by 
  , Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif’s adviser on foreign affairs, that gave any details at all. It was also clear that Aziz was merely the messenger being used by 
  .
 
  
  have dipped significantly since Pakistan snubbed India on the 
  . A summer of violence in J&K, sponsored by Pakistan, followed by the Uri attack and then the surgical strikes took ties even lower.
 
 With a new army chief in place in Rawalpindi, India believed things might get easier. In recent weeks, prisoners have been exchanged and it looked like a new operating balance could be achieved. Then, things went south again when ISI goons abducted 
  , who were only released after a lot of noise by India. The 
  came out of the blue, leaving questions about the timing, intent and direction of India-Pakistan relations.
 
 The prospect of “nailing” an Indian “spy” is always alluring to the  . Never mind the inconsistencies in the case - why would a spy be travelling with his original papers and passport from his home country? Any half-decent intelligence service would be able to plan better. Indian officials said they were certain he had been abducted from Iran and passed on to the ISI.
 
 One thing is certain: there is almost no prospect of India-Pakistan relations normalising any time soon. There is also little reason to engage the civilian administration - India has long believed in the fiction that it should only engage the civilians in Pakistan. Even though Sharif and his government are nominally in charge, the army has taken over control in much more subtle ways, leaving only a thin veneer of civilian government in place. In any case, Sharif will be seeking re-election in 2018 and the Modi government will go to the polls in 2019, leaving little opportunity for any sustained engagement. The Modi government took a lot of flak on its early outreach to Pakistan and the subsequent flipflops.
 
 But post-Uri, the government appears to have decided on a course of calling out Pakistan on terrorism at every forum - bilateral and multilateral. It’s the only issue on which India is prepared to talk to Pakistan.
 
 Separately, India is pushing forward on making the Indus Waters Treaty work better for itself, which might add to Pakistan’s anger. Why did Pakistan put the Jadhav verdict out now? There remains speculation that India has in its custody a former ISI officer reportedly picked up in Nepal, who, it is suspected, had a role in Jadhav’s abduction from Iran last year. Speculation is rife that this may have prompted pre-emptive action from Pakistan army.
 
 Pakistan is also keen to turn the terrorism narrative against India. In addition, Islamabad would want to reinforce to China that India is the real obstacle to the China Pakistan Economic Corridor. Then, there is the old trick of drawing the country together in the face of Indian “aggression”. Also, a hope that the Trump administration can start off seeing India in a different light.
 
 India is the last country the Pakistan army wants to talk to. Which leaves New Delhi with very few options, especially if they actually execute Jadhav.
 
 
