HYDERABAD: The Telangana government plans to allow retail outlets,   and business establishments to function from 5 am to 2 am the next day.

 “Telangana will soon come out with a dedicated retail policy primarily focused on facilitating business. We are also talking to many other retailers who are wanting to come to India...what they have been asking us is for a specific retail policy which will focus more on facilitation of doing business easily and helping them in getting up and running quickly ,“ KT   had said.
 
 The government has proposed several exemptions to traders and incorporated clauses to help the industry grow. “The retail policy will be helpful for both, traders and consumers.The state government has been consulting the trading and retail community for its suggestions. The policy is expected to come into force in a couple of months,“ Telangana industries secretary   said.
 
 Ranjan, however, clarified that the policy has not yet been internally discussed with other departments like labour and police. “It is only a preliminary proposal prepared by us for consultation. Benefits of the policy will be given only to certain categories of retail and not to everyone,“ he said.
 
 Terming the proposal as pro-consumer and pro-retail,   (RAI) CEO   said: “RAI had taken up the issue of relaxing timings with the Telangana government to allow consumers the freedom to shop till late in the night. Currently, many customers want to shop late but we are forced to turn them away as we have to shut down by 11pm.
 
 “I think when rules are made to suit citizens, they are happy and if consumers are happy, it means more business, which in turn will translate into more sales and eventually more revenue for the government. It will also lead to more jobs being created,“ Rajagopalan said, adding that the move also comes with its share of increased responsibility in terms of ensuring safety and security.
 
 Once the policy comes into force, all shops, malls and other establishments will be permitted to open 365 days without any holiday but the employees will have to be given offs on any one day of the week. Apart from this, the draft policy proposes to bring food and grocery items under the Essential Commodities Act, which will enable retailers to operate during holidays and even during bandhs.
 
 The policy also proposes to lift the storage limit for commodities, except those prohibited under the Essential Commodities Act. Industries department officials said that, as of now, the state does not have an urban policy for reserving spaces for the shopping and recreational needs of citizens. Shops are coming up haphazardly and they compete for space in prime locations adding to the chaos in urban centres. According to the proposal, retail parks will be developed, preferably abutting national highways or major roads, with adequate transport options and big ticket retail outlets that also have other recreational facilities for entire families.
 
 These parks will help consumers get goods and commodities at competitive prices, the officials added. As part of the policy, the state government is also all set to propose that city master plans reserve land for the development of retail zones on the lines of Delhi.
 
 The policy also proposes to set up an incubation-cum-centre of excellence for the retail sector.
 
 
 
 
