NEW DELHI: There are a lot of complaints to be heard on the streets in the   assembly constituency, where 2.24 lakh people live without proper civic infrastructure and services. Divided into the four municipal wards of Khajoori Khas, Tukh Mirpur, Karawal Nagar West and Sonia Vihar, the people have suffered uncleared garbage, stinking marketplaces, overflowing drains, lack of healthcare facilities and schools crammed beyond capacity.   has created a fifth ward in this civic badland, and though the political parties are worried that the altered geography will disturb the poll arithmetic, the citizens themselves see more corporation funds flowing in.

 Sriram Colony is the new ward carved out of Khajoori Khas and Sonia Vihar. Each of the five wards now has around 60,000 voters, but in readjusting the ward limits to create similar population bases, the political dynamics have changed following the transfer of voters from Tukh Mirpur ward and Khajoori Khas. 
 
 This fact does not overly engage the people there. Of more immediate concern to them, more even than needs such as roads and infrastructure, is healthcare. “None of the four wards has any hospital,” said  , a resident of Tukh Mirpur. Outside the newly built 200-bed Veer Savarkar Arogya Sansthan hospital, Mohammad Saket Ali, who runs a medical store, claimed, “If somebody breaks a leg, we cannot take him to this hospital.” The new institution does not have adequate medical staff, forcing citizens to depend on hospitals located more than 5km away. 
 
 The majority of mohalla roads are unpaved and in bad shape in Sonia Vihar and Khajoori Khas. AK Tiwari, president of the RWA, blamed the politicians and their lack of will for the deplorable conditions. Tiwari was happy with the delimitation because he foresees more corporation funds flowing into the area. His optimism was shared by Kundan Rawat, a grocer at Sonia Vihar, but most others refused to believe that the politicians would usher in progress after the polls later this year.
 
 On their part, both  , councillor of Karawal Nagar, and Anita Sharma, councillor of Tukh Mirpur, blamed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s poor finances for the malaise. “Many files have been lying with the departments concerned,” claimed Singh, while Sharma said lack of money had forced the withdrawal of sanitation machinery. She also admitted, “No land is available for the construction of a dispensary even though there is not even a single allopathic dispensary for a population of 55,000 people here.”
 
 
