PANAJI: Defence minister Manohar Parrikar was appointed Goa chief minister on Sunday after   concluded hectic negotiations with regional parties and independent MLAs to stitch up the numbers to form a government.

 Governor Mridula Sinha invited Parrikar to form the government after he staked claim and showed the support of 21 MLAs. The governor has asked Parrikar to prove majority in the assembly within 15 days of assuming charge. Parrikar’s candidature was cleared by the BJP parliamentary board on Sunday evening and he may be sworn in as the chief minister on Tuesday.
 
 BJP beat Congress, which has more numbers but was stranded short of the halfway mark, by aligning with MGP with three MLAs, GFP which also has the same number, independent MLA Rohan Khaunte and BJP-supported independent MLA Govind Gaude. The saffron outfit has 13 MLAs in the 40-member assembly.
 
 Parrikar’s return to Goa would mean a vacancy in the Cabinet Committee on Security. BJP sources said his replacement had not been decided though additional charge could be given to a senior minister. 
 
 “We have formed the government under common minimum programme to provide stable and to continue development in the state,” BJP observer for Goa Nitin Gadkari told reporters.
 
 During the talks with BJP, MGP and GFP put a condition that they would support the BJP-led coalition government if Parrikar was sent to the state as chief minister. GFP was also assured by Parrikar and team that they would not go for a mid-term poll and would complete the full five-year term.
 
 Parrikar’s candidature was seen as necessary to get allies on board and to then lead a government held up by a disparate coalition. Even during the campaign, Gadkari had suggested that Parrikar could return as CM, in what now seems to have been an acknowledgement that his successor Laxmikant Parsekar had failed to deliver the goods.
 
 GFP mentor and Fatorda MLA Vijay Sardesai and Khaunte, who were vocal critics of the saffron outfit, joined hands with the BJP alliance. BJP expects two more MLAs to join the coalition. MGP, which broke off the alliance with BJP on the election eve over serious differences with Parsekar, returned to the BJP fold.
 
 Though GFP MLAs were not in favour of aligning with BJP, the saffron party assured them that their various demands would be met. It also agreed to give cabinet berth to all three MLAs. BJP also assured two cabinet seats to MGP and one each to the two independents.
 
 MGP’s Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said they had come together to provide good governance. Sardesai also said that they could not waste the mandate given to GFP for providing a stable government for the development of the state.
 
 “We will never make any compromise with Goem, Goankar and Goenkarpon,” he said, adding GFP will be watchdog of the government.
 
