MUMBAI: Payments technology firm  , which is set to transform into a payments bank, has raised Rs 400 crore from  ,   General Insurance, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and other investors. The company will be using the funds to build a payment bank technology platform,   and investing in its lending arm.

  has become the single largest domestic investor in Fino with its Rs 251 crore investment which gives it a 21% stake in the company. Although the BPCL deal was announced in July, it is only now that the round of funding has been completed. Of the remaining Rs 149 crore, Rs 118 crore has been invested by new entrant is ICICI Prudential Life Insurance along with ICICI Lombard General Insurance. 
 
 ICICI Lombard and ICICI Bank already have a stake in the company and together with the new investment the group has around 20% equity in Fino Paytech. With the new investments, Fino Paytech has become a company with majority domestic shareholding. 
 
 Earlier, the company was majority owned by foreign investors including   Group, IFC, ICICI Bank, HAV3 holding and Intel Capital. With the dilution of capital to Indian investors, the stage has been set for a final approval from the banking regulator.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rishi Gupta, MD & CEO, FinoPaytech said, that the company was targeting to launch the payments bank around March-April and would focus largely on financial inclusion. It would also operate in the area of digital wallets largely for purchase of fuel. Recently, Fino launched its mobile wallet FinoBPay that will facilitate cashless payments at over 12000 BPCL outlets.
 
 Gupta said that the company would continue to operate as a business correspondent for other lenders including ICICI Bank. "We are also talking to ICICI Prudential and ICICI Lombard for distribution of insurance," he said.
 
 Prior to payments bank related developments, the last time Fino raised funds was in 2011 when Blackstone group invested Rs 150 crores. The company, which has been profitable since 2010, provides a wide range of financial and large scale enrolment services such as door step banking, biometric banking solutions, remittances, lending, insurance, PMJDY and UID enrolments and direct benefit transfer payments through over 30000 transactions points across more than 500 districts in the country.
 
 
