CHENNAI: Close to 50 transgenders residing in the   Quarters,  , and as many activists and volunteers, will unite on March 30 to pay tribute to a friend they lost in November last year. Their canvas - a 40ft wall - will be transformed into a "conversation starter and a space of debate" over the next three days, says Sadhna Prasad of the Bengaluru-based Aravani Art Project. 

 Tara, a 28-year-old transgender woman, was found severely burnt outside the   police station late last year, before she died of burns at   and Hospital.
 
 Though reportedly a suicide by self-immolation, the incident brought together an enraged transgender community in protest against the culture of violence they are commonly subjected to, and one they believed Tara to be a victim of.
 
 Now, the Aravani Art Project - an initiative that creates a space within the mainstream for the transgender community by engaging them in public art and intervention - will help take this fight forward through the gentle but compelling medium of art. In their latest project, they will create a gigantic tribute portrait of Tara, complete with the cascade of jasmine blooms she loved, and the text, ' ' (may humanity prevail), running above it.
 
 "Through this initiative we also want people to witness the remarkable sense of community and inclusivity that prevails here in Ernavur, among the general public and the transgender community - something that's unimaginable in the city," says   who started the Aravani Art Project in January 2016.
 
 "Writers, photographers, filmmakers and artists from Chennai have expressed interest, and a team from Bengaluru with members of the transgender community, will participate," says Sadhna.
 
 For 34-year-old Dhanabakkyam, a transgender participant, this is a natural extension of what she believes the community to be inherently blessed with - an eye for aesthetics.
 
 "We can look beyond the exterior and identify beauty when we see it. When Poornima and Sadhna trained us in painting and geometry, we caught on instantly," she says. "None of us have forgotten Tara's face. And as we look up at her portrait, we will remember to live by her example, and forge ahead on the path she opened up for us."
 
