NEW DELHI: India and   held their first strategic dialogue Friday ahead of   and deputy supreme commander of the armed forces of UAE Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan's visit to India next week.

 Sheikh Mohamed will be the chief guest at the   celebrations on January 26. 
 
 During the meeting on Friday, according to a statement by MEA, the two sides discussed a number of issues ranging from cooperation in the areas of trade and investments to expanding the bilateral cooperation to new areas under the strategic partnership. These new areas include energy security and renewable energy, defence and security, electronics and information technology and space.
 
 "The meeting provided a timely opportunity to prepare for the forthcoming State visit of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi as the Chief Guest at the Republic Day celebrations, 2017. The two sides agreed on a number of new initiatives to further strengthen the bilateral cooperation and on signing of fresh instruments of cooperation," said the statement.
 
 Issues related to counter-terrorism were also discussed in the dialogue. Terrorism remains a focus area for the two countries even though UAE recently denied reports in the Indian electronic media that it had seized Indian fugitive  's property worth Rs 15,000 crore.
 
 The meeting was co-chaired by MJ Akbar, MoS for external affairs and Anwar Gargash, MoS in ministry of foreign affairs of UAE. The two sides were represented by strong delegations drawn from a number of relevant ministries and departments.
 
 This will be the second visit of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi to India since February 2016. 
 
 "Following the landmark visit of Prime Minister   to the UAE in August 2015, the two countries have agreed to elevate the mutually beneficial relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership," the ministry statement said. 
 
 Bilateral trade between India and the UAE stood at about $50 billion in 2015-16. 
 
 The Gulf nation is among the top investors in India in terms of foreign direct investments and was the fifth largest supplier of crude oil to India in 2015-16.
 
 
