Colourful kurtis make an attractive backdrop to  's small counter at the mela. In between showing dress samples to a bevy of women customers, Mumbra-based Salami says, "My husband works in a salon while I design and sell clothes from home. The mela provides us a platform to showcase our stuff and network with other  ." 

 Held by women's group Bazm-e-Niswan near its headquarters in Nagpada, last week's annual mela or fair unambiguously underlined a message: women, especially Muslim women, are shedding inhibitions to join the army of independent entrepreneurs and salespersons. With collections of clothes, imitation jewellery, cakes and cookies, snacks and sandals, these women emphatically asserted their right to earn a decent living with or without men's help. Managed exclusively by women, the one-day fair also proved that women are next to none when it comes to holding exhibitions or sale of home-made or retailed products. As we near International Women's Day (March 8), there is a   among a section of Muslim women through Bazm-e-Niswan.
 
 Founded in 1955 at the Bhiwandi residence of former minister  , the Bazm relocated to Mumbai in the 1960s as its founding president Zakia Khatib and her doctor husband moved to the city. Besides initially running nurseries, the group began training women, mostly housewives, in tailoring, sewing, aerobics, karate and English language. "Under mummy (Khatib)'s leadership, the Bazm became a magnet for not just ordinary women who needed skills but it also motivated those who desired to volunteer," says Nafisa Shekani, Khatib's daughter and the Bazm's current president. 
 
 Brochures brought out at the Bazm's golden jubilee (2005) celebrations carry sepia-toned pictures of many women of substance like actor Nargis Dutta and former PM Indira Gandhi, who attended the Bazm's functions in the past. "Our Bazm has been at the forefront of empowering women silently. We tell women who put up stalls at annual fairs that men can work behind the scenes but a woman must manage the show at the fair," explains Ghazala Azad, the Bazm's old associate who coordinated this year's mela. Earlier, the mela was called   after the famous Mughal-era market in old Delhi. "The new generation identifies more with a word like mela than Meena Bazaar and we want to change with the times though basic principles set by our founding president (Zakia Khatib) remain unchanged," explains vice-president Birjees Fakih.
 
 Two things women aren't encouraged to discuss here are politics and religious differences though a Quran class is conducted regularly. "The Quran class is to enable the participants to read the verses correctly and understand the divine commandments not to discuss sects," says a member of this 1000-strong organisation.
 
 At the weekly (Friday) meetings, the members also discuss how to help needy and deserving students through scholarships. "One interesting initiative the Bazm can take up is the pre-marital counselling of girls. It can help women handle the marital crises they may encounter in future," suggests eminent lawyer Nilofar Saeed who has addressed the group's meets on women's rights. 
 
 
