A 40-year-old owner of a   made a video of himself beating up a driver to prove to a   who had complained that the  . But the   by another driver, resulting in the   and the owner landing behind bars.

 The video shows Nandeesh (40), owner of Siddeshwara Travels, beating up a driver named Raju (45) with a stick. The footage also shows Nandeesh ordering Raju to repeat ‘Drinking on duty is a wrong thing’ every time he hit him.
 
 The video was leaked on a Whatsapp group. When the drivers’ association saw the video and learnt about the incident, they filed a complaint with the Banaswadi police station.
 
 The chief of drivers association, Lingaraju, said, “I saw the video and was shocked. We got details about the driver and we approached his family to lend a helping hand. We visited him and saw that he was beaten up black and blue. His condition is better now, but this is not how a person should be treated.”
 
 On March 7, Raju, employed with Siddeshwara Travels in Kammanahalli, was assigned to drive a family to Ooty. 
 
 The family members had informed the agency that they would be staying the night in Ooty. However, they decided to return to Bengaluru the same night, but could not as Raju had allegedly got drunk and slept off.
 
 Nandeeth S (37), Nandeesh’s brother, said, “The customers complained that the driver was drunk and out of his mind and that they had to drive all the way back to Bengaluru. The customers were senior citizens, so my brother got furious and had to take such a stringent step. He made the video to show the customer to prove that he has punished the driver. But somehow the video got leaked.”
 
 When Bangalore Mirror contacted the Banaswadi police, they said, “We have filed a Suo moto case as the driver couldn’t come. The owner has been booked under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), section 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of Indian Penal Code and he has been arrested.”
 
 However, BM could not contact Raju as his phone was switched off.
 
