BENGALURU: About 30 odd citizens protested against the   on Monday. The corporation has planned to translocate five trees along the stretch of the Palace grounds as a part of an experiment.

 The residents of   and   protested against the translocation of trees. “We also got to know that the BBMP plans to cut 71 trees and translocate 41 trees to widen the road. But we have been fighting to save as many of them and we also pointed out that no public consultation was conducted by the forest officials,” said Yogeesh Prabhuswamy, a member of CfB.
 
 However, the BBMP sources say that about 70 trees have been found not eligible for translocation at all. “We got a detailed study done by the Institute of Wood Science and Technology who have submitted a report. The report finds 42 trees that are eligible for translocation. The rest, about 70 are not eligible for translocation and will be cut to make way for road widening. We had reached out to many institutions to help us translocating these trees but none came forward,” said Prahlad, executive engineer of BBMP.
 
 He added that the corporation has finally tied up with Pravas Environment—a group from Surat in Gujarat which has a record of transplanting 5000 trees and the survival rate has been 87% of these translocated trees. “We also got a confirmation about their work from the Surat municipality commissioner. But mean time, Princess Indraskhi Devi, member of royal family who owns the land wrote to us that she is willing to translocate the trees at her cost. But we have to provide the logistics for the same and we agreed. As a part of the project, we are taking up five trees first, three of them are Honge trees,” he added.
 
 Technically, the land still belongs to the Mysuru royal family. Vijay Nishant, environmentalist who has been associated with the study of the trees, says that if the trees are translocated to the same area, the survival rate would be higher.
 
 Earlier, the BBMP had planned to cut 112 trees on Jayamahala road to widen the road towards Mehkri Circle. Residents’s outcry against the murder of greenery forced the civic agencies to think about translocation.
 
