MEERUT: As winged visitors arrive at Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary in large numbers, the forest department has unveiled a plan to attract bird watchers and photographers from far and wide to come and visit the over a dozen wetlands located along the 170-km-stretch of the Ganga river in the district. The aim is to apprise wildlife lovers about the immense eco-tourism potential of the sanctuary.
 
  As a part of its capacity building and stakeholders' involvement initiative, a one-day workshop was organised by the   on Saturday for the sensitization of   forest department personnel about the aims, objectives and importance of the project, keeping in view the current conservation scenario in the country.
  
  Chief forest conservator, Meerut zone, Mukesh Kumar, said, “There is no denying the fact that the 170-km-long stretch on either side of the river Ganga is rich in biodiversity. What is needed now is to draw tourists' attention towards it. Inviting bird lovers and ornithologists at a time when migratory birds arrive will go a long way in publicising the region .”
  
  A recent survey by wildlife experts from across the country discovered 16 wetlands in the region, where more than 150 species of birds, including woolly necked stork, intermediate egret, grey heron, etc, arrive. “Soon, we will highlight one wetland at a time and provide information on how to reach there. We will cover all the 16 wetlands in this manner,” said Kumar.
  
  Bird lovers and experts are upbeat over the development. Speaking to TOI, Asad Rahmani, former director of  , said, “This is a great effort by the forest department to facilitate adventure trips for bird lovers who can enjoy bird watching in the vast wetlands along the river Ganga. It will certainly boost eco-tourism and will provide a good outlet for nature lovers. I hope with time, adequate resting facilities will also be provided to tourists.”
  
  Rajat Bhargava, a renowned ornithologist, said, “At a time when rapid urbanisation is snatching away the opportunity from our youngsters to witness these beautiful birds, this step by the forest department is a silver lining. If work is done consistently on this project, I am sure we will not only be able to conserve these avian species but also leave a lasting legacy for the next generation.”
  
  “Though the region does not have any tiger, which is a major attraction in Corbett, we do have dolphins, gharials and turtles. And if all goes well according to plans, we will also have rhinos in the region. The aim is to develop this stretch as an eco-tourism zone. The 16 wetlands trip is just the beginning,” said Kumar.
