PATNA: Chief minister   on Wednesday   from the state capital to spread the messages of Mahatma Gandhi among urban and rural population across the state.

 Equipped with multimedia system, big LED screen, loudspeaker and noiseless generator sets, the GPS enabled raths will reach every panchayat in the state in the next 12 months as part of the centenary celebrations of Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagrah.
 
 People will watch an hourlong documentary on Gandhi’s life, listen to his five popular ‘bhajans’ and see a photo exhibition on his freedom struggle on the raths which will pass through rural and urban areas of the state. The documentary has been produced by the state information and public relations department (IPRD).
 
 Before flagging off the raths, the CM also inspected a photo exhibition on the life and works of Mahatma Gandhi and his Champaran Satyagrah at the Adhiveshan Bhawan gallery in the city. He appreciated the photo exhibition. 
 
 Principal secretary (IPRD) Brijesh Mehrotra said each ‘Gandhi rath’ would hold at least five exhibitions every day. A four-member committee headed by the respective district magistrate has been formed in each district to finalize the routes of the raths and the photo exhibition plans. The committee comprising the district public relations officer (DPRO), district programme officer (of education department) and a representative of state resource group, would not only monitor the raths’ movement, but also finalize locations in panchayats, urban haats or municipal areas for the photo exhibition.
 
 Director (IPRD) Bidubhushan Prasad said the exhibition would be held at high schools and middle schools on priority basis, as the state government has decided to focus on younger generation to inform them about the life and ideals of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 Before flagging off the raths, the CM and several senior officials of the state government, including chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh and development commissioner Shishir Sinha, watched the hourlong documentary on Gandhi in the Adhiveshan Bhavan auditorium.
 
