One of the most sensational cases in recent times -the death of model   in a car crash and the subsequent arrest of actor  , who was driving the car -is being made into a film by a director who has a taste for shock and awe. Shankudeb Panda, who's just released a film on the Singur-Nandigram unrest, will helm the project that will also explore the nightlife of Kolkata.The accident that left Sonika dead took place on April 29, while Vikram, who was arrest ed on July 6 in connection with the case, finally got bail on Wednesday . The actor was taken into custody after the cops registered a suo motu FIR and charged him with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. While opinions on the case are divided, two social media groups -Justice for Sonika and   -are engaged in an online battle over the case.

 Panda -who was the   students' wing state general secretary before he was removed from all party ranks -is calling his film Goti, which refers to speed and destiny . The story revolves around three friends, one of whom dies in an accident. It has been alleged that Vikram was driving at breakneck speed before his car hit a streetlight outside Lake Mall around 3 am on that fateful night.
 
 A source said, “Shankudeb went through media reports before coming up with his own story . Since it's a burning topic, he didn't find it difficult to pitch the subject to his producers. Pre-production has started and the first teaser will be released in the next few days.Nachiketa has been approached to score for the film. The shoot is likely to begin before Durga Puja and the movie will release this year.“
 
 Satarupa Pyne, one of Sonika's friends who's demanded action against Vikram on social media, has been approached to play the lead. “Yes, I have been offered the role. I asked the director to seek permission from Sonika's mother, as without her consent, I can't go ahead with the film. I am in Mumbai and will wait for the director to get back to me,“ she said.
 
 Vikram, who also knows about the film, told us, “I have heard that Shankudeb is making a film on the case, but I'd like to refrain from commenting on it.“ When CT got in touch with the director, he didn't deny it either. “I can't talk about the film right away ,“ he told us.
 
 
