AHMEDABAD:The   — the midday meal scheme for labourers — is now being exploited by bachelors living alone and residents of colonies near where the meals are being served. Travellers from distant places are also making the most of the scheme, to get an unexpensive wholesome meal. At one spot where the meals are being served, Akhbarnagar Crossroads, about half of those buying the subsidized meal are not labourers.

  According to those crewing the serving point, about 400 meals are served every day. The labourers it was meant for mainly keep away. “The quality of the food supplied is not bad, but it is not according to the tastes of labourers, who prefer more spicy food,” said  , a labourer in the area.
 
 The food supplied is like the meals given to patients in hospitals, says Darshan, adding that labourers did initially queue up for the meals, but stopped on realizing that the food did not match their tastes. He also complained that the chillies given are not fried but boiled. 
 
 “The scheme which was for labourers has turned out to be a scheme for residents of the area, who queue up from 9am and take the food in tiffin boxes. Even those coming to Ahmedabad from other places are seen taking the food,” he said.
 
 Bhavesh Patel, a labourer, says, “There is only one counter and if one stands in queue, first to get a token and then to get the food, it takes half an hour. In this time one could miss many contractors who come to hire labourers. He further said that the government should provide packed food which they can pay for and carry away. He added that service ought to be quicker.”
 
 Hamir Lakha, says, “Labourers are used to eating spicy food while the food served is bland, which does not suit us. To keep the rotis hot they are wrapped in foil, but as they are packed hot, they stick to each other.” He says he usually takes the meal on days when they serve sweets or theplas.
 
 One crew member, who asked not to be identified, said, “We normally get some 600 plates, but end up selling 400 only. As this is the beginning of the scheme, not all labourers have the red book given by the labour and   and hence we give food to anyone who walks in. According to the instructions, we are supposed to enter the red book number and then give a token, but around half of the labourers here do not have the red book.” The red book is an identity document for labourers registered with the labour and employment department.
 
