VARANASI: Even as the   entered into the third day, the detailed three-page complaint of the molestation victim at the university has made shocking disclosure on how men on a motorcycle had groped her.

 The complaint also makes startling revelation that the guards stationed on   kept on questioning the movement by the victim's friends after 6pm at the campus.
 
 According to the FIR, the incident had taken place at 6.20 pm on September 21, on the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's arrival in his Lok Sabha constituency for a two-day tour. The FIR was lodged on September 22. TOI has accessed the detailed complaint by the second year student whose molestation has triggered widespread protests, leading to arson and clashes between police and students. The 21-year-old girl had come to BHU from the national capital. “I was passing by Bharat Kala Bhawan at 6.20 pm. I was wearing salwar suit. Suddenly, two motorcycle-borne youth came and inserted their hands inside my suit. They then sped away. Due to fading light, I could not recognise the registration numbers,“ the complaint reads. She reveals how desperate pleas by her and her friends before the   to recognise the men despite sharing their description invoked scornful remarks. “While I was almost unconscious and weeping, my friends, approached guards but their reaction was strange. They made sarcastic remarks on why we move outside after 6pm.
 
 This even as the incident took place hardly 10 metres away from where the guards stood,“ the complaint adds.
 
 The girl has also disclosed that one of the male students, who had seen the incident, showed up the courage to describe assailants as “one man in white and other in red shirt“ but security guards did not bother to make any attempts to find them.
 
 The girl has further appealed in the complaint that she wants harshest punishment for the molesters so that “such an incident may not happen with any other girl.“
 
 Her friends have now taken a swipe at the  . “When this government came, we were happy that it wants to eliminate stalkers who have become tormentors of many of us in the past. But here we realise, that neither the guards, nor the police, even the SSP has done anything since last six months to even frisk men at BHU if they are consuming liquor or moving around with weapons. Had their anti-Romeo force been working, we wouldn't have to face this situation,“ said girl's classmate at BHU, who comes from a south Indian state.
 
 Her friends describe the molestation victim as a feisty woman who often egged them to bravely undertake solo train trips, drive, attend seminars and participate in social media campaigns on In one of her recent Twitter posts, she shared a photograph with caption “See my dress as Muslim, my forehead as Hindu, my chest as Christian, but I am human.“
 
 Though her parents have taken her back to Delhi, the girl's kin and friends have now begun to share SMS-based Android and iphone apps that come handy for solo women travellers. “Soochna, akele safar karne wali mahilao ke hit mai zaari. Aap jab bhi akele raat mai auto ya taxi mai baithe, toh uska number 9969777888 par SMS karde, aapke vahan par GPRS nazar rakhi jaayegi“ reads her family member's shared post. The post has tagged the fan pages of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi and UP Police.
 
