PILANI: Project director of Agni IV at DRDO, Dr   has asked the graduating students to join national flagship schemes---Make in India, Skill India and Start up India to bring a positive change in the lives of people. While delivering her keynote convocation address at BITS in  , Thomas, who is popularly known as ‘Angiputra’ motivated students to collaborate with the government in key areas which are required for the growth of the country.

 She reminded students that India is facing challenges in the domain of health, sanitation, housing, environment, and education cannot be resolved by the government alone. “The graduating students take up the initiatives through the startups and towards building a public private partnership to bridge the gap between the government and the citizens,” said Thomas. She is also heading the dual position of a project director Angi V (Missions). 
 
 While outlining the importance of the technological interventions in every sphere of life, the award   asked the institutes to train students in such a way that they should make use of the technology in the best possible manner. “Learners today have an access to the most current knowledge through non-institutionalized means. The fast pace of generation and application of new knowledge especially in the field of science and technology demands the learners to adapt the rapidly changing world of knowledge,” said Thomas, who has received honaris cause degrees from five universities.
 
 She is a fellow of the prestigious Indian National Academy of Engineering. Her contribution at DRDO varies from guidance, control, inertial, navigation, trajectory simulation, and missile design. During the ceremony total of 1372 students received their degrees, including 1028 B Tech degrees, 274 M Tech degrees and 70 were given doctoral degrees. Even parents from across the country visited the campus to be the part of their wards graduating. 
 
  A special mention of projects which won national and international accolades were made. A group of students under the mentorship of faculties is creating a Hyperloop which is a new mode of transportation--pod prototype. The project is being supported by NITI Aayog. This Hyperloop model will be raced at one-mile long test track built in California in 2017.
 
 Another project which is awaiting the last leg of approval from ISRO is nanosatellite created by students from a different branch of engineering at BITS, the satellite will have a hypersoectral images as its payload. It will help the climate control agencies to capture images of oceans required to study the impact of the Co2 on oceans. Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (CEERI) is supporting and guiding this project. The CEERI is central government research institute.
 
 
