GURUGRAM: City-based e-commerce firm   is in free fall. After firing 80% of their employees earlier this year, the company, which was founded in 2011, is now facing the anger of existing employees. A group of 20 employees is planning to move court against VAS Data Services Private Limited (parent company of Yepme) for not paying salaries for over six months.

 These employees had sent a legal notice to the company on August 28, giving them 15 days’ time to reimburse their salaries. However, Yepme has neither accepted the notice, nor replied to it. The employees have also submitted a complaint against the company in the CM Window and at Sector 54 police station. They are also in touch with the labour department.
 
 “It’s been almost a year since I’ve received  . In April, I told them to clear my dues so that I could resign, but they asked me to quit without the dues being cleared. Technically, I’m still a Yepme  , though I haven’t attended office since April,” said   designer Manoj Sharma.
 
 He added that like him, there are over 50 people who have not been paid for around six months. Many people have left during this period without even collecting their dues, since they needed relieving letters to join new employers.
 
 “My family is not financially dependent on me, so I could wait this long, but people who have families had no option but to leave,” said Sharma. In all, the company owes around Rs 35 lakh to these 20 people, who are moving court. The first hearing is on September 15.
 
  employee said, “The company has been in trouble for some time. Barring a few selected employees, most haven’t received their salaries for months. Every time we approach the management, they tell us we will be paid next month.”
 
 Sources said the company is also shifting its office from Orchid Centre on Golf Course Road, and selling off its inventory on the side. 
 
 Over 1,800 cheques issued to vendors and employees by Yepme have bounced, said another employee. “Yepme received Rs 500 crore funding in 2015. However, instead of using it for expansion, the owners used it to for personal purposes and made several small investments. This is how its fall began,” said another employee, requesting anonymity. A fresh round of fundraising in May this year hasn’t helped the firm much.
 
 The biggest concern of employees right now is that while they take up the legal battle against the owners Sandeep Sharma and Vivek Gaur, they might escape from the country, leaving the employees stranded. Company spokespersons could not be contacted for their version.
 
 
