BHOPAL: AICC general secretary and former chief minister   began his 3,300 km   from Barmaan ghat in Narsinghpur on Saturday. Senior   leader Suresh Pachauri and at least a dozen Congress MLAs were present as Singh embarked on his “spiritual” march after offering puja with his wife Amrita at the Tripur Sundari Temple at Jyotishwar.

 Speaking to reporters, Digvijaya Singh specified, “I am going on the Narmada Parikrama as an ordinary citizen.” He said he would refrain from talking politics through the six-month long march covering 120 assembly constituencies in   and another 20 assembly seats in Gujarat.
 
 State Congress office also supported Digvijaya’s claim that it is a “personal pilgrimage” but will be supported and joined by party workers in large numbers.
 
 State Congress chief spokesman KK Mishra said, “Digvijaya Singh is a senior leader of the Congress party. His totally personal spiritual endeavour is also for peace, happiness and prosperity of the people of Madhya Pradesh. Congress party leaders and workers will not just join and participate in large numbers but will ensure the march is successful.”
 
 On Friday, Digvijaya Singh met his religious guru Dwarka-Sharda Peeth Shankaracharya Swaroopananad Saraswati and sought his blessings. Though the senior Congress leader claims his march is totally personal, the Narmada Parikrama comes four months after the conclusion of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Narmada Seva Yatra and three-months post the BJP state government’s six crore sapling plantation “maha abhiyan” on the banks of the Narmada.
 
 Digvijaya Singh’s march along the banks of the Narmada started less than 14 months before the next assembly elections would also be documented. Sources in the state Congress said that cameras will roll throughout the walk with Digvijaya Singh and the march will be documented as he meets party workers and people at the grassroots.
 
 Congress sources said the march with cameras would document the evidence of alleged illegal sand mining in the Narmada – an accusation the party in Opposition has been levelling against the BJP government for nearly a decade. Cameras will also capture the reality of the sapling plantation drive and record the complaints of the people against the ruling government. Six months later, the Congress would use this as reality-check evidence before the 2018 assembly polls.
 
 A prolific tweeter, Digvijaya Singh told reporters that he would not tweet on the Narmada march either. However, if someone else tweeted it, he could retweet the same.
 
 On Saturday, Digvijaya along with his MLA son Jaivardhan Singh walked the first three kilometres. On Sunday, he is scheduled to cover the next 10km.
 
