CHENNAI: She might have broken into the top 5 in the women's world chess rankings last year, but   will not be happy until she seals the No.1 spot in the future. Harika, who is currently No. 8, has ma de rapid progress at the international stage in the recent past and 2016 proved to be a great year for the Andhra girl.

 She won the   in Chengdu, apart from finishing the FIDE set of women's Grand Prix's in Khanty Mansiysk in December last with an overall fifth position.
 
 "When you play at the highest level, you are bound to experience highs and lows at times, but my focus is always on the positives. I'm not happy with my current ranking and want to improve it by winning as many titles as possible. I've been doing well in the international competitions and obviously breaking into top-5 was a great morale booster. But I'm not going to rest on my past laurels as my ultimate goal is to become world No 1," Harika, who is here to participate in the inter-unit PSPB chess championship, told TOI on Friday.
 
 Apart from attaining her career-best ranking last year, Harika's path to success has also seen her beat the likes of World No. 1Hou Yifan of China. Though she won the bronze in the world championship for the third time in her career, Harika sounded confident of winning the yellow metal in the near future.
 
 "Yes, beating Yihan was special. As I said my game is improving and now I'm taking on higher-ranked players with more confidence. I've been working hard on my game and am happy the way it has shaped up. As far as winning the bronze medal for the third time is concerned, I was pretty disappointed with it because I wanted to win the gold medal in the world championship. Winning a bronze in such a great tournament means a lot, but my goal is to win gold. It may take some more time but I'll do it," the 26-year-old added.
 
 Harika, who idolises Judit Polgar, Vladimir Kramnik and Viswanathan Anand, has always looked up to these legends for inspiration. "I'm a great fan of Judit. She was the first to break the male bastion, she is a trendsetter. I also take a lot inspiration from Kramnik and Anand. I grew up idolizing Kramnik and his style of play has always attracted me," the World No. 8 said.
 
 Keeping high fitness level is a must for every chess player and Harika is serious about it. She tries to do different things ranging from yoga, aerobics and jogging to playing badminton to keep herself fit.
 
 
