GURGAON: The forest department’s plan to reintroduce blackbucks in the Aravalis is likely to be delayed by more than six months owing to encroachment in the Sarbasirpur reserve forest, the proposed site for developing a suitable   for the animal.

 The forest department has already kicked off the survey, and started fencing the reserve forest area, which is spread across 140 hectares of land. However, according to sources in the forest department, some parts of the land —around 2-3 acres — have been encroached upon by villagers.
 
 A senior forest official told TOI that the department has written to the Gurgaon deputy commissioner, seeking the district authorities’ assistance to remove illegal structures built by villagers.
 
 Blackbucks thrived in the   region about four decades ago, but eventually they disappeared from the area as the vegetation slowly turned into a closed canopy forest (thick forest). Blackbucks prefer grassland forest. The forest department hopes to introduce other species of the deer family in the region as part of the initiative.
 
 “The reserve forest is close to the  . This area is used to be a salt pan. After the practice discontinued, the area turned into a scrub forest and later open forest through the process of natural succession,” a forest department official said. The forest department plans to develop a   habitat over a span of four years — from 2016 to 2020. The department has already created water holes in the area. “Blackbucks prefer grassy plains with thinly forested areas, which have regular source of water,” he said. “At present, no forest area has such habitats in Gurgaon or Faridabad,” he said, and added that the department has studied the models of Agra, Mysore and Bangalore for setting up the reserve in Gurgaon. 
 
 In the first two years, the department will develop 80 hectares of grassland, and the next 60 hectares over the next two years. Trees like Salvadora persica (arak, meswak), Prosopis cineraria (khejri), Azadhiracta indica (neem) and Carrisa carrendus (karonda) along with shrubs like Capparis sepriaria (kanthari) and Ziziphus nummularia (jharber) will be planted in reserve forest being developed,” the official added.
 
 
