Mumbai: Uncertainty over modalities of implementation of Goods and Services Tax ( ) has triggered concerns among patients over shortage of medicines due to attempts by stockists and trade channels to reduce stock in trade. 

 Stockists, worried about potential losses once GST kicks in on account of the mismatch between tax payout and tax refund, have started maintaining a minimum inventory and are even returning back a part of the stock to companies. This may lead to paucity of certain medicines for a short period, and should not create a major problem, industry experts say, adding, there is no need to panic. Social media platforms are abuzz with messages voicing concerns on medicine stocks getting depleted, and asking patients to stock up now for the “severe shortage” from July. 
 
 “Destocking is a natural fallout of the exercise, so as to minimise unnecessary impact. Lower stocks could be maintained, just enough to serve demand in the market,” A Vaidheesh, vice-president (South Asia) and managing director,   Pharmaceuticals, told TOI. 
 
 Dealers and stockists are in a wait-and-watch mode as the final rates under GST are yet to be decided. “Distributors usually keep an inventory of 40 days, while at the retail level, it’s 10 days. In case the GST rate is unfavourable, distributors in the last week of June may reduce inventory (stocks) to 15 days, but it is unlikely to impact at the retail level,” Ameesh Masurekar, director at   — which has 60,000 distributors and seven lakh chemists under its fold — told TOI. Masurekar said there is no likelihood of a shortage, and normal inventory levels will be restored by first week of July.
 
 “As part of transition and in the absence of clarity about credit for duty paid stock on hand, all manufacturers and traders in many sectors are trying to reduce stocks. That is transitory and should not create major shortage,” said D G Shah, secretary general of industry body  .
 
 Worries among distributors have surfaced as some dealers had suffered losses in the past when the value added tax regime had kicked in, due to delays in tax refund by the government. As a result, this time they may attempt to minimise stock, assess the tax refund situation once GST kicks in, and then replenish stocks, an industry expert said. 
 
 “GST modalities and rules are still to be clarified, particularly on the tax refund and input credit. Uncertainty in the industry will dissipate once the rules are clarified,” says Sujay Shetty, India and Asia-Pacific leader,  .
 
 Another grey area is the fact that pharmaceuticals has an inverted duty structure, where payouts (on account of APIs and raw materials) may be more, while the taxes it gets from trade channels is less, hence the refund mechanism needs to be sorted out. To avoid chaos, companies too need to plan for implementing GST, with the entire ecosystem including IT, packaging and vendors geared up. Countries which implemented GST have witnessed a 5% dip in monthly sale in certain sectors in first month, an industry expert added.
 
 
