: I am a 52-year-old-married man and have a son who is studying in college. I had a female personal assistant in my office who's of my son's age, and I treated her like my daughter. As a token of respect, she used to send me messages on festivals and special occasions on my mobile and e-mail, and I used to revert with the same.

 Somehow, my wife got suspicious, and assumed it to be an extra-marital relationship between us. Although, I tried to explain her many times that she is like our daughter but my wife went till my office and abused her. The matter was brought to the notice of my senior colleagues, and the girl was transferred to another department.
 
 Since then, we have not been in touch at all. Unfortunately, my wife is still suspicious, and gives me cold shoulder all the time. How can I restore her faith, and lead a meaningful relationship? Please help.- 
 
 
 
 : I understand that you are having a difficult time with your wife as she is not trusting you. She has also created an unwanted situation in your office, which could have been challenging for you to deal with. 
 
 It is clear that she has trust issues, you can try to understand her underline feelings that can be fear or insecurities. It will be great if you can make her feel secure and address her feelings. 
 
 I would suggest you to have a clear conversation with your wife, and clear her doubts and insecurities. You can appreciate her for small things that she does for you and spend quality time with her. For example, discuss topics of mutual interest or speak about her positive traits.
 
 You can also slowly start creating boundaries which can give enough space to both of you. An insecure partner constantly requires your attention which can overwhelm you or frustrate you. Therefore, define your time and discuss with each other about your work schedule and commitments. You can use statement like, "I want to spend time with you, can I get back to you in a while or after my meeting as I have some work to complete". It is very important to stick to the boundaries that you will mutually create with each other. 
 
 You can work on the above suggestions and also seek professional help from a marriage counselor for guidance if required.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com 
 
 
