CHANDIGARH: In a recent case where a parent has alleged assault by a private school on his son, Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) has on Friday written to the school to allow the child to attend classes until the matter is decided.

 The school in communication to the parent had asked the parent to keep the child at home and only send him for final exams and then withdraw him from the school in the next academic year. The school stated that the child was a repeat offender when it came to indiscipline.
 
 The parent had last week written to the police seeking action and later also wrote to education department and CCPCR. The commission had summoned the principal and the director but they did not appear saying that everyone was out of city following vacations.
 
 “We had called them but no one appeared. We would meet them next week now. In the meantime we have written to the school that they should allow the child to attend classes until a decision is taken,” informed Prof Devi Sirohi, chairperson of CCPCR.
 
 The school reopens on January 9. The education department too has marked an inquiry in the case on Wednesday.
 
 It was on December 30 that the parent had written to inspector general of police, Chandigarh, and others stating that his son was beaten up brutally by the principal and director of the school. “I can’t even imagine this extreme step taken by the school that left my son in such a trauma that he was unable to speak to anyone due to the threat made by the alleged staff members. We got worried when he was crying and his face was swollen. Only when we took him to a doctor few days later, he naratted the incident to me. He was always targeted as informed earlier for one reason or another since last many years by the school authorities.”
 
 The parent said he got him medically examined. “They have beaten him so severely that he was unable to hear properly,” he stated in the report. He said, “The last quarter of the session is coming and pressure is being mounted to withdraw my child from the school.”
 
 In response, the school director said, “The case is of gross misconduct. He was smoking and offering cigarettes to his classmates who lodged a complaint with the principal. On investigation, cigarettes were recovered. He has been in trouble for the past many years. He comes from an unhappy home where the mother has filled FIR against the father twice for assault. The father has also been creating false cases.” Denying the allegations, he said, “There has been no slapping and an inquiry and disciplinary action by the principal has been taken.”
 
