Nagpur: In a rather intriguing business deal, a company with its office in the city’s middle-class locality of   has announced a Rs 3,500 crore joint venture with China Railway Material International Corporation (CRMIC), a Chinese state-owned entity, to manufacture railway sleepers in Nagpur.

 The Indian company,  , and CRMIC have formed MICRM International Infrastructure Private Limited on equal partnership basis. The company, with authorized share capital of Rs 5 crore, plans to come up with a Rs3,500 crore plant to make sleepers for railway tracks in the city. The land has not been finalized yet, but the Indian promoters say if all formalities are completed, they may start work in 3-4 months.
 
 The JVs directors include littérateur  , realtor Atul Tyadi and MP Deo, a railway loco pilot, introduced as an adviser to the company. Addressing a press conference to announce the JV on Tuesday, Tyadi said all works bagged by the Chinese entity in India will be executed though the new company. It will be going through competitive bidding or other processes laid down by the government to get the contracts in India.
 
 Apart from pumping in its own share of over Rs1,700 crore in the Nagpur project, the Chinese company will lend an equal amount to the Indian arm in the JV. This will be our company’s investment in the sleeper making plant, said Tyadi. He refused to divulge details of the terms of the loan citing business secrecy.
 
 Replying to questions posed by reporters, Tyadi said the JV was forged with the Chinese giant because he had some friends in China, who helped strike the deal. Here again he said the details will not be spelt out at this time considering business secrecy. “Soon, a press conference will be held with the chairman of the Chinese company Tan Bo, spelling out more details of the venture,” he said.
 
 The JV also plans to set up an industrial park in Nagpur and Pune, for which meetings will soon be held with union minister for surface transport   and Suresh Prabhu. The company will be taking up projects in construction of bullet trains, railway lines, highways, bridges and tunnels, apart from modernization of railway stations, airports and seaports extensively using solar energy.
 
 Tyadi said he had no experience in infrastructure business but had earlier been a joint venture partner with M/s BL Kashyap, a listed company from Pune, which is into real estate. It has a turnover of Rs2,500 crore, he said.
 
 He claimed his company, MAP Turnkey Solutions Limited, has a team of professionals with expertise in executing infrastructure projects.
 
 Anand Sancheti, a director of  , a city-based infrastructure firm, said such partnership with a domestic entity by foreign companies is a known strategy. “Foreign businesses need Indian partners to guide them in the local market. They also create a market for the product and remain along with it throughout the operations here,” said Sancheti.
 
