NAGPUR: Peeved over the failure of city’s clubs, charitable trusts and lawns to comply with orders of submitting three years’  , the Nagpur bench of  , on Wednesday, granted a last chance to collector Sachin Kurve to complete the formalities.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye granted a week to the collector’s office while orally warning to summon him in case of failure. The judges were enraged over the fact that only six clubs submitted their audit reports with profit/loss information out of hundreds of organizations which were commercially exploiting the government-leased (Nazul) land. 
 
 The stern orders came while hearing a suo motu PIL based on media reports alleging gross misuse of the historic park due to negligence of the district administration which often rent it out for the commercial activities. However, this important issued didn’t come up during the hearing.
 
 Earlier, the collector filed an affidavit stating that his office had undertaken court’s orders and directed city tehsildar to employ a revenue inspector and talathi for collecting audit reports. The Nazul department’s ‘shirastedaar’ and surveyor were also told to coordinate.
 
 The collector informed that the six clubs had submitted their audited statements of 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15, so far. They included — Officers’ Club,  ,  , Jawahar Vidyarthi Gruh (JVG), Ladies Club and CP Club. Barring Officers’ Club, the other clubs were directed to file audited financial statements for 2016-17, but they failed to submit it and did not give any explanation for it too.
 
 The Officers’ Club clarified that the books of accounts for financial years 2015-16 and 2016-17 were submitted to the charted accountants for verification and would be submitted to the collector after completion of formalities. The JVG and VCA submitted financial statements of profit/loss derived from total area, including Nazul land, and therefore, “exact figures of income from this land can’t be provided”.
 
 Kurve clarified that the recovery of ground rent is to be charged and collected as per the categories in government resolution of March 3, 2007, and the amount is deposited in account of government’s land and revenue section.
 
 
