When cycling enthusiast   moved to Gurugram from Delhi some eight years back, he was counting on clean air and clear roads. But eight years later, Bhatt, the head of urban transport at   (WRI), has had to seriously cut down on cycling. That’s because over the years the air in Gurugram has become so foul it’s now quite unbreathable.

 TOI did an analysis of the air quality index (AQI) in various parts of Delhi and Gurugram, and the results are shocking. Gurugram’s average AQI for PM 2.5 has been higher than even the most polluted parts of Delhi since April 20. Experts point out that these fine pollution particles are not just from natural dust but also toxic diesel emissions from generator sets, diesel autos and cars.
 
 Bhatt used to cycle to work almost daily but now does it once a week. “I had seen a map that showed scary PM 2.5 concentrations around NH8. It showed how the adjoining areas were affected. The pollution worries me. I have reduced cycling over time and have started depending on taxis despite knowing that they are polluting my city more,” said Bhatt.
 
 According to Bhatt, the mobility pattern in Gurugram played a huge role in the mess. The Metro is there but without adequate last-mile connectivity options; diesel taxis and autos are adding severely to the pollution. “As against a requirement of at least 1,000 buses, there are only about 40 buses. The government has been planning to buy more buses for a long time now but hasn’t bought them yet. It’s a vicious cycle where people are buying more cars because there is no other transport available and there is induced traffic,” he added. About 41% of the people here commute to work by cars and two-wheelers compared with 30% in Delhi.
 
 The PM 2.5 concentrations in Gurugram has ranged from 226 micrograms per cubic metres to 73 micrograms per cubic metres between May 6 and May 14, which is between 3.76 and 1.21 times the safe limit.
 
 According to an analysis by the   (CSE), the density of cars in Gurugram is far higher than in Delhi. In 2014, Gurugram had 323 cars per 1,000 population compared with 88 cars per 1,000 population in Delhi. Add to this the fact that Gurugram has vertical growth, which means there are more people per square km in Gurugram than in Delhi. On top of that, over 1.3 lakh cars and SUVs from Delhi come to Gurugram every day.
 
 So, it’s not hard to imagine why one is likely to see many more cars in Gurugram than in Delhi which is more spread out.
 
 But cars are only a part of the problem. “We know there is a lot of dependence on diesel gensets in Gurugram’s apartments. But there are no clear numbers on either gensets or their emissions. But it’s definitely a huge factor. Then there’s the dust problem because of large-scale construction,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).
 
 Then, many parts of Gurugram are devoid of adequate greenery which too has a marginal impact on air quality.
 
 To make matters worse, Gurugram has only one pollution monitoring station — at Vikas Sadan — so no one really gets a clear picture about the whole city. A larger data base is a must to understand the problem better and take corrective action.
 
 While several source apportionment studies have been conducted for Delhi to pinpoint emission contributions from each source, no such research has taken place in Gurugram so far. Such a study would help in prioritising and targeting emission sources.
 
 Sewa Ram, associate professor at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said, “There are major road works and construction projects all over the city. We have also found that vehicles in Gurugram have very long idling time with very low occupancy. A mix of all these issues is leading to the high pollution levels in Gurugram.”
 
