Nagpur: The plan to   the problem 2-year-old   of   in   Tiger Reserve Saturday morning after radio-collaring it has been temporarily shelved. In a complete volte-face, the forest department is now planning a ‘soft’ release, which means it will be placed under ‘surveillance’ and observed in ‘controlled atmosphere’ for few days. 

 Pench chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director Rishikesh Ranjan said, “It will take another three-four days for the release.”
 
 According to sources, under this soft release plan a chain mesh will be created in Bor in Navargaon, the spot where the animal was to be released. Here, its behaviour will be observed before the final release.
 
 All arrangements were made for the final release of the tigress in Bor. At Gorewada, where the tigress is caged currently, the staff was told about the change of plan at 10am.
 
 TOI learns that Pench officials, under whose management Bor falls, are reluctant to re-release the tigress. They feel that the decision has been forced upon them.
 
 The divisional forest officer (DFO) Uttam Sawant, posted at APCCF (wildlife) office, who was one of the members of the expert committee, was opposed to the decision to release the tigress. Now, being well aware of the landscape, he has been made the nodal officer of the operation. APCCF N Rambabu was another who was against the release.
 
 For the soft release, it will take some time to create the channel fencing. The tigress will have to be fed as it will not be able to hunt, and CCTV cameras will be installed to check on the tigress’s behaviour. It will also lead to more human imprints. 
 
 However, PCCF AK Misra said that there is no problem. “Some last-minute preparations are going on, decision to release remains unchanged,” he added.
 
 As per the NTCA protocol, captured problem animals are to be released within 30 days. Already 23 days have passed since the tigress has been captured.
 
 Earlier, the soft release of another tiger TF2, which was kept in a big enclosure in Pench, went haywire as she forget her hunting skills after being hand fed. 
 
 TF2 killed live animals when they were sent into the cage but could not do so when released in the wild. Finally, it was sent to Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai.
 
 As per the NTCA standard operating procedure, if the tranquillized tiger is found to be healthy and in prime or young age without any incapacitation, as confirmed by the committee, then it may be released after radio collaring in a suitable habitat with adequate prey base, away from the territory of a resident male tiger or human settlements, under intimation to the NTCA.
 
 Based on a state-level committee recommending release of the tigress, Misra, who is also the state’s chief wildlife warden, had issued orders to release the tigress on July 17. 
 
 Accordingly, the tigress was to be released on Saturday morning in the presence of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientist Bilal Habib. The tigress has mauled two villagers and injured five who had ventured into the forest of Brahmapuri division in the past 4-5 months. 
 
 
