NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared a list of 1,846 property tax defaulters who owe more than Rs1 lakh each, with their collective outstanding amount pegged at Rs127.94 crore. This amount, which is roughly one-fifth of NMC’s targeted property tax collection for 2016-17, is sufficient for   to run city bus operations for an year without any hassles.

 The list of defaulters prepared by NMC shows there are 434 who owe above Rs5 lakh tax each. Sources said the arrears below Rs1 lakh are also huge, and the department is yet to compile the total figure, but this too may cross Rs100 crore mark.
 
 Nehru Nagar zone has the highest number of such high-value property tax defaulters. NMC’s property tax department data shows that the zone has 103 big defaulters, who collectively owe Rs43.32 crore to the civic body.
 
 Zone number one (Laxmi Nagar) has 436 property owners with Rs42.08 crore dues, followed by 127 high-value defaulters in Lakadganj zone accounting for Rs22.44 crore dues. Dharampeth zone has 288 defaulters with collective outstanding property tax of Rs19.19 crore.
 
 Even as there has been a rise in the figure of property tax defaulters, NMC is, ironically, set to launch an amnesty scheme from July 17 to August 7, offering such non-payers an incentive of 90% waiver on interest and penalty.
 
 Standing committee chairman   clarified that this will be the last amnesty scheme. “Properties of those who default this time will be seized and auctioned to recover the tax,” he said.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioners (AMCs) of all 10 zones have been directed by municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal to aim for 100% recovery of property tax. He has directed the AMCs to review property tax recovery every three months.
 
 “We have a target of collecting Rs565 crore as property tax this year. In order to do that, we need complete cooperation from tax payers,” said a senior NMC official. Sources, however, claimed NMC is going slow in recovering dues from big defaulters.
 
 Senior   corporator   has blamed the ruling party for poor property tax recovery. He pointed out that to rein in property tax defaulters, NMC had started imposing 2% penalty on those paying tax after the due date, in line with state government directives in April 2010. The decision was taken to ensure that NMC received tax on time. However, this has failed to push defaulters to pay up on time.
 
 In the last fiscal too, NMC had launched an amnesty scheme for defaulters, which evoked a poor response. “Against over Rs191 crore arrears, the recovery was only Rs35 crore. In fact, the decision to give discount to big tax defaulters was wrong,” Gudadhe pointed out and added that it is injustice to sincere tax payers.
 
