CHENNAI: Their music is timeless, and the band members never age.  , a 20-year-old band of 20-somethings from  , is set to perform their first ever gig in the city. 

  Beat boxing, whistle, claps and clicks are their instruments. An a cappella group with a touch of spice, Penn Masala began its journey in the year 1996 and has over the years captivated the world with out-of-the-box music techniques and mash-ups.
 
 Penn Masala does not hesitate when it comes to experimentation. Their motto is to explore and celebrate the junction of western and Indian music. 
 
 "We are an evolving band not just in terms of our music but also our members. As old members of the band graduate, new ones take their place," says Praveen Rajaguru, one of the band members.
 
 "One challenge we experience as a college group is because of the rotating nature of the band. As the group grows, we are forced to adjust to changes in lead talent, but in the end it helps us modify our sound and push the boundaries of South Asian fusion," says Rajaguru, who adds that their Sunday show at   will promote their latest album 'Yuva'.
 
 The inspiration of Penn Masala, according to members, comes from the fans who constantly applaud their performances. "Our fans really drive us to keep innovating and put out content which will resonate with them," says another band member Nikhil Raman.
 
 Penn Masala has produced 10 studio albums to date, and band member Hari Ravi adds that they have also performed in the   and in Hollywood movie Pitch Perfect 2. 
 
 In their current album 'Yuva', the group has begun exploring the electronic music scene with songs like Nashe si chadh gayi/ Hymn for the weekend. 
 
 "The group started off as all-male perhaps by coincidence. From a musical standpoint, we have developed a core style over the years through male voices. However, we also collaborated with Jonita Gandhi. We are open to similar collaborations in the future," says Hari.
 
 Tickets are priced at 750 and are also available online at www.insider.in 
 
