KOLKATA: Had the missing   student, Bishweshwar Pal, been traced, he would have been taking his   now. Apparently disappointed with the police action, his father Shankar Prasad Pal and uncle Arun Kumar Pal met top Lalbazar officers on Wednesday, demanding that the the case be transferred to central agencies. But the police maintained they had little leads in the case. 

 Bisheswar, who studied in Class X, left his Kankurgachhi home for school on September 2 but never returned. Though his father said he had dropped him off at school, police said he did not enter the premises. His uncle, Arun, a doctor, said he went to pick him up but did not find him.
 
 The past six months have been sheer torture for the Pals. Shankar, a commissioned agent at post offices, has given up his job in his quest to trace his son. "My wife, Deepa, is a lung patient and had to be admitted to   twice in the past three months," the distressed father said. Uncle Arun has taken the onus of "collating leads" and visiting every possible place the teenager could go to, mostly the places he had visited on holidays. "From Tarapeeth to Benaras to different places in Bihar and Jharkhand, I have visited all police stations. I left Bishweshwar's photo and my contacts with the cops there," Arun said. Shankar not working any more and the travel have led to financial constraints in the family.
 
 While the Bathtala police as well as the Lalbazar detective department claimed they "understood the father's pain", they maintained they could do little. "The golden period,the first few weeks, when the boy could be traced is over. We have alerted all police stations, but the boy did not carry any technological evidence. It is a difficult task to find him," said an officer, adding the boy seemed to have gone away on his own. "Every policing system tries its best to find   kids. We can assure you we will extend similar help," said an officer at the Bathtala police station. The Pals, however, claimed the police had failed even to alert all the neighbouring police stations. "I stay in Baranagar and the local police station had no idea Bisheswar was missing. I have met the police commissioner, the special secretary (home) and almost all senior detective department officers. I wish to meet Mamata Banerjee once. They are forcing us to take legal steps," Arun said.
 
 The police said the boy had run away, fearing backlash from his family and school after not "faring well enough" in his exams. But the family claimed the school had suspended Bishweshwar-the reason was apparently not told-and that led to the teen leaving home. The school, however, said they had suspended the boy earlier for indiscipline but allowed him to take exams and that his family was duly informed about it. 
 
