BENGALURU: Tarini Wilson, a maths teacher for 30 years, had always heard the subject she loves described as “tough“.So when she read about the Shanghai technique, in which a teacher breaks down the teaching of concepts and moves on only when every child in the class has understood, she was all ears.

 “The fault is in the way we focus on exams when we teach and not on making the student fall in love with the subject,“ said Wilson, who teaches Class 7 students. “I'm trying to follow the Shanghai method, a buddy technique where students have two hours of lessons and then sit in pairs and work on sums together. It's fun and a great way of learning,“ she said. The Shanghai method shot into the spotlight a couple of years ago after 15-year-olds from the Chinese city perfor med better than their counter par ts from other parts of the world in the triennial Programme for International Students' Assessment (PISA) test.
 
 The method cuts maths teaching time in school to just two hours a day. The rest of the time is spent assisting students as they solve sums on their own. The method also requires teachers to undergo specialised training for at least five years to equip them to teach students of a particular age group.
 
 Some Indian teachers say the technique would not suit all schools. “Our school has a variety of students from different cultural and regional backgrounds. In this environment, it is not possible to adopt a single approach,“ said Sarojini Rao, principal, Indus International School, Bengaluru. She said the method would be more effective in support classes where teachers could identify gaps that needed focused practice.
 
 Nirmala Sankaran, who heads math learning portal HeyMath.com, said what stood out in the technique was the structured and planned curriculum, high quality teaching resources and focus on training to make every teacher a master teacher.
 
 “Adopting some of the best practices from the method in primary years i will prepare students for a flipped classroom model, where concepts are learned at home through online lessons and class time is used for problem l solving,“ she said.
 
 Sumanth Jain, a Class 6 student at S t Joseph's Boys' High School, said, “The major issue in learning maths is that there are so many topics and so little time to cover it all. If it was made fun, I think we'd look at maths differently.“
 
 Prakrithi Paniker, a student of  , said she could stop going for tuition if this kind of method was introduced in class.
 
 Focusing on better and deeper learning in primary classes makes progression in secondary school easier.
 
 Prasanna VR, CEO, Sikshana Foundation, which works with gover nment schools, said the Indian system does not focus on deeper understanding of concepts.“We need to create an environment where teachers feel the need to deepen their understanding of maths and how children learn,“ he said.
 
