CHENNAI: At any time of the day, Luz   is a hub of activity with crawling traffic and pedestrians jostling with hawkers selling their wares. But, in the midst of all this chaos, a small nook on the busy stretch became the hub of another kind of activity during the Mylapore Festival, which was held recently. A stone's throw from the bustle, children were busy learning traditional board games organised by Kreeda as adults looked on indulgently.

 For Vincent D'Souza, editor and publisher of two community newspapers, and architect and urban planner  , it was the culmination of a civic initiative that they had long been advocating. A project, which, if replicated in other neighbourhoods, can change the cityscape.“The nook was created as part of the redesigned Luz Church Road project,“ says Selvaraj. The pavement was wid ened and though a median with a heritage walkway was planned, it was dropped later.
 
 The nook now has a heritage map of Mylapore and a few granite benches. The idea behind creating such a space is to get citizens to take ownership of public spaces through the micro planning of common areas.
 
 “It is not practical to expect the government to monitor every square foot of public space, be it a street or park. We have a lot of residual spaces that don't belong to anyone. For instance, beyond using a road for traffic movement, proper `right-of-way' design can help optimally use extra space,“ says Selvaraj, adding that these unorganised spaces often become dumping grounds for garbage because there is no activity and no designated agency can be held accountable for it.
 
 “It is not about this nook on Luz Church Road, every neighbourhood has such spaces. We just have to look around us and identify spaces, and come up with a detailed design plan for that area. If it is done with residents' involvement, it can transform the neighbourhood,“ she says, adding that it is not meant for busy commercial areas.
 
 With no lighting the corner in Luz had become a dumping ground of sorts. Having cleaned it for the Mylapore fest, D'Souza hopes to keep the spot abuzz with activities through the year. “We are hoping to start some photo or art displays, simple ideas that can be easily executed and attract people,“ says D'Souza. “We also plan to have this year's edition of the Art Mart here on the first Sunday of February .“ While the space is open to all to conduct community, cultural activities, it cannot be used for any commercial activity. “It has to be hand held for some time, but we hope we can attract enough people and the space gets a life of its own,“ says D'Souza, who is looking for volunteers and those interested in using the space. “For now, people can contact   for more information,“ says Selvaraj.
 
 While residents can draw up a plan, the civic body has to be approached for permission in case of any construction. The authorities take up projects but are also open to suggestions. “If a group of citizens identify and come forward with such a plan, we would welcome it,“ says K S Kandasamy, deputy commissioner (works),  , adding that the corporation did have a plan for utilising unused spaces underneath flyovers and bridges on TTK Road and Kotturpuram.
 
