MADURAI:   have arrested two shopkeepers for possessing   suspected to be stolen ones. In all, 13 mobile phones were also seized from the shops in   on Scott Road in the city. The shopkeepers were later released on station bail. 

 Police said the arrests were made in an effort to check the trading of used phones without proper documents. The crackdown followed the recent warnings and communication from the city police to the shopkeepers. The shopkeepers were identified as K Subash, 37, from   bus stop and N Mohammed, 28, from Jaihindpuram. Both are running shops in the bazaar with shop numbers 110 and 72A respectively. The seizure was made by a team led by sub-inspector Sundarapandian attached to Thilagar Thidal police station. 
 
 A police officer said they will continue the crackdown. “We have asked all shopkeepers to ask for either bills or box of the phone when they purchase used phones. Soon, all police stations will launch similar checking but those who are doing fair business will not be affected,” he said. 
 
 While the crackdown left a few shopkeepers fuming, most members of the shopkeepers’ association were not complaining. “Most of us in the bazaar are doing a fair business and we do not want to spoil the name of the bazaar because of one or two wrongdoers. Instructions from the police to install CCTV cameras in all the shops and prohibiting purchase of used mobile phones without bills are welcome. If the move will help curb criminal activities, we should cooperate with it,” said a member of Sri Meenakshi Bazaar Small Scale Traders Association requesting anonymity. 
 
 The crackdown has been launched on instructions from city police commissioner   in an attempt to bring down the crimes related to mobile phones. In recent months, there has been a large number of theft and robbery cases involving mobile phones. 
 
 Since a smart phone can be easily sold for a few thousand rupees and is carried by all kinds of people, it has become a prime target of thieves in recent months. Police have taken efforts to curb the illegal sales in an attempt to bring down the crime rate.
 
