PANAJI: Not only is   on higher   better than most states, it has also been increasing over the years, according to the assessment of India’s   sector that was carried out before the launch of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan’s (RUSA).

 The report prepared by the Union human resource development ministry in association with Tata Institute of Social Sciences in 2013 attributes Goa’s higher gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education and the high expenditure to ‘a history of positive intervention in higher education’.
 
 “States such as Goa, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tripura and Mizoram have shown high per capita expenditure on higher education with reasonable gross enrolment ratios as compared to national average,” states the report.
 
 It observes that Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Goa show consistent increase in expenditure on higher education, while Gujarat, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh show declining expenditure. 
 
 “Significant increase in percentage expenditure is noticed in case of Karnataka, Goa, Puducherry and Uttar Pradesh, while a steep decline is noticed in case of Punjab. States and UTs with high   on higher education also show a trend of increasing non-plan expenditure as compared to plan expenditure,” states the report.
 
 The study also points to another positive aspect of Goa’s higher education scenario high GER of the scheduled tribe population.
 
 “Haryana, Punjab and Goa are examples of states where there are very few rural or inaccessible areas and thus the ST GER is also very high. Many states such as Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh have very low ST GERs despite a fair proportion of ST population,” states the report.
 
 Last year, ‘India Education Report 2015’, a new book co-edited by researcher for the government of India N V Varghese along with Garima Malik, pointed out that at Rs 14,646, Goa invests the highest per capita on higher education in India, followed by Tamil Nadu with per capita spending of Rs 13,101. The report simply attributed these figures to the priority the state gave to the sector.
 
 
