When the sweltering summer heat extended into June, the faithful would hold quaint intercessions which, they say, produced immediate results

 Invocations compiled by Fr John D’Silva in his book
 Sant Anton, (Deva lagim magon - 2) paus ghal amkam 
 Sant Anton altarar, paus ghal sonsvarar 
 Sant Anton darant ubo, amche patkan 
 aila uzo
 Sant Anton firngealo, paus ghal devalo
 Sant Anton manchebhattan 
 paus ghal sogle xetan 
 Sant Anton manini, (kondeamni), 
 paus ghal har’inni
 Sant Anton panni di, molle 
 xetam pikom di
 Sant Anton pani di, mudde bhat pikondi
  (tollien), paus 
 ghal mouven.
 Sant Anton besanv, besanv ghal,
 Saiba mhojea Sant Anton, 
 Deva lagim magon paus ghal, 
 paus ghal
 Sant Anton anje, anje, paus 
 ghal sanje
 Sant Anton virgo, virgo, 
 iskolacho bhurgo 
 
 They say prayers can move mountains and, apparently, even water.
  In Goa, a religio-cultural tradition practised with a few variants in different parts, saw people carrying stones or statues of St Anthony of Padua on their heads in a penitential procession praying for rain. And they swore that faith would open up the heavens often immediately or sometimes, within hours. 
 
  Many parts of the world have their own traditions. But in Goa, when the sweltering summer heat extended into June, or the torrid sun scorched the crops, people invoked God or prayed to the saints in unique ways.
 
  Men, women and children would gather and sing in chorus: ‘Saiba mhojea Sant Anton, Deva lagim magon paus ghal, paus ghal.’ (My lord St Anthony, intercede with God for rain). Invocations to St Anthony, who the faithful consider to be a worker of miracles, are predominant during the penitential procession that winds its way through the village areas.
 
 Fr Victor Ferrao, dean of philosophy department at  , points out to St Anthony’s propensity to rain. “It would always rain one or two days before or at least on St Anthony’s feast day (on Sunday) at Deussua, Chinchinim,” Ferrao said. Having grown up in the village, he vividly remembers taking part in rain-invoking prayers.
 
  Each area, in fact, has its own preferred set of invocations, though the practice as a whole is slowly fading out due to the rigours of modern-day life and a growing disconnect with old customs.
 
  “It was a tradition since my childhood. When there was no rain for days on end in Aldona, people would carry stones on their heads and walk in a procession to the altar of St Anthony at Corjuem fort,” says John Mascarenhas, a former 
 college principal.
  The procession would begin from Cuxem in Corjuem, Aldona. People would recite the Rosary and other prayers during the penitential procession, which some Hindus also joined, and would wind their way through other areas before ending up at the fort in Podwal. “At the fort, they would light candles, pray and come back home. The people have great faith in St Anthony,” says Mascarenhas.
 
  In Assonora, villagers would carry stones from the church to the St Thomas Chapel on the hill, just over a kilometre away. “Climbing the hill slope itself is difficult,” says Fr Maxie Rodrigues, 
 a local priest.
 
  The practice of carrying stones on the head as an intercession for rain was prevalent in some other villages of Bardez, too. While some believe this interesting custom may have begun with the advent of Christianity in Goa, others say it became part and parcel of the Franciscans’ evangelization mission in the  , where it still remains rooted. Franciscans are considered ecologists and St Francis of Assisi, the order’s founder, is the patron saint of the environment.
 
  In Salcete and other places, the practice of carrying a statue of St Anthony or Jesus on the Holy Cross in a procession around village areas was prevalent. Men, women and children sang the invocations as they wound the way to a water body. The feet of the statue would be dipped in the water while prayers were said and they would then return home. “And we would really get some rain,” says Mascarenhas. 
 
 Fr John D’Silva, a priest from Saligao, has compiled local invocations to St Anthony and other saints in a book. The styles of singing them in the Bardez and Salcete talukas have a marked distinction. Tiswadi is an interesting blend of both. “Xaxttikars have a way of prolonging their invocations while Bardezkars abbreviate theirs,” he says.
 
  Praying for rain was linked to the agricultural economy and lifestyle. People also loved the sublime feel of the monsoon and the verdant environment it gave life to. “But due to a capitalist-driven economy, we have transitioned from producers to consumers. As a result, we have lost our dependence on God,” says Ferrao.
 
