PATNA: Departmental proceedings would not be initiated against state government employees if they drink outside Bihar, unless they create nuisance or commit any crime or do not follow the law of that state related to consumption of intoxicated drinks. 

 The formal notification of amendment in the Bihar Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1976, which was approved by the state cabinet on February 15, has come as a relief for many state government officials, who were scared after certain media reports that departmental proceedings would be initiated against them even if they drink outside the state. 
 
 General administration department joint secretary   told TOI on Saturday that no departmental proceeding would be initiated on state government officials, if someone tries to implicate them by presenting photograph or video clip of them drinking outside the state unless they create any nuisance or commit crime.
 
 Singh said the Conduct rules would be in force in Bihar only and properties of the state government outside the state like   in New Delhi. “The code of conduct would be applicable for officials posted in Bihar Bhavan or other properties of the state government in other states, as those premises come under the jurisdiction of the state. However, the service conduct rules would not be applicable in a non-dry state, if the official consumes the drink off duty and does not indulge in any act which would tarnish the image of the state government,” said Singh.
 
 “Suppose a government official is drinking in a marriage ceremony in a non-dry state like Punjab and someone clicks their photograph or makes video clips and shows them here, departmental proceeding would not be initiated on them unless they indulge in any action, which may tarnish the image of the state government,” Singh said.
 
 The notification published on the website of GAD reads, “No government servant shall consume intoxicating drinks or drugs. Every government servant shall strictly abide by any law relating to intoxicating drinks or drugs, in force in any area in which he may happen to be for the time being (sic).”
 
 Deliberating on the reason behind the amendment, Keshav said, “Bihar Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1976 was inherited from service conduct rules of the British officials prior to independence. It did not prohibit drinking liquor but disallowed officials from drinking while on duty or at public places or create any nuisance under the influence of alcohol. However, following the enforcement of total prohibition in Bihar on April 5 last year, it was thought that the previous conduct rules allowed limited exemption for officials to drink. Hence, it was thought to introduce amendment to plug such loose ends, so that it complies with the prevailing prohibition regime.”
 
 However, a section of senior government officials are still apprehending trouble in drinking in non-dry states as they have taken oath not to consume liquor.
 
