University Grants Commission has made four short films on  . Through a recently uploaded notification on its website,   has instructed all the universities to screen these videos regularly to sensitise and counsel the collegians about the adverse effects of ragging. But when we checked with some of the city colleges in this regard, we were shocked to learn that principals of most of these institutions are unaware of this directive. Here’s an update on the sad scenario…

 
 
 College examinations are being cited as an excuse by most of the college officials for not following the UGC directive. Principal of   Dr NK Chaudhary says, “Since the practical examinations are going on, all the faculty members are busy. But rest assured that our college has strong anti-ragging rules in place. And if anyone flouts them, we shall take appropriate action under the UGC guidelines and rules.” 
 Speaking on similar lines, principal of   Dr Sajid Anwar adds, “There is no question of flouting the directives issued by the UGC. But the problem is that Anjuman is the main examination centre for many city students and all our faculty members are in the middle of a hectic schedule. We shall have a look at the notification and comply with the directive in the beginning of the new academic session.”
 
 
 The four short films depicting the terrible effects of ragging were uploaded on the official website of the UGC ten days ago and it is intriguing that most of the colleges have no idea as to what these videos are all about. Principal of Jawaharlal Nehru College, Dr NN Bhajbhuje, says, “I have not seen the videos yet, neither am I aware of any such directive. Actually, we have not received any notification from the university in this regard till now. But once it comes to us, we shall follow the directive.” A faculty member of Vasantrao Naik College, says, “I have no idea on this latest notification issued by the UGC. Our college regularly provides counselling to the new and senior students on the ill effects of ragging and we continue to follow it. But right now we are not screening any videos for the students.”
 
 
 
 College authorities claim that this notification has been released at the busiest time of the year and they still haven’t had a change to go through it. Principal of  , Kamptee, Dr Kunal Roychoudhary, says, “I have not gone through the notification yet. This is the busiest time for most of the city colleges as both practical and theory examinations are going on. We shall take a look at the notification later and comply with it when our college staff is free.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
