Young businessmen and professionals in Kolkata are hiring premium and luxury ‘self-drive’ cars to impress clients and associates.
 
  “There is a robust demand for premium sedans and luxury SUVs that we have added recently to our fleet. It is mostly young professionals and businessmen — most of them below 30 years — who want to experience the cars and share the experience with business associates during the day and friends at night,” said Zoomcar eastern India head Anand Biswas.
  
  Thus, the two Audi Q3 and two Mercedes   that Zoomcar tentatively inducted into its fleet have become a big hit with nearly 70% occupancy or booking for 118-hour-a-week at the rate of Rs 290-300 per hour. “Some businessmen use it to travel to multiple meetings. The cars travel mostly within the city during the day, pointing to their for business. In the evenings, the cars are used for leisure as they get driven around in New Town and on NH 6 to Kolaghat,” he said.
  
  A big chunk of people who hire self-driven cars also own a car. Yet, they hire one for several reasons: need for a larger vehicle when friends and family are visiting; occasions such as marriage when the primary car is already in use; or sometimes on holiday when one’s own car is too old to be trusted for the highway trip. “This year, we even had a customer who rented a car to drive to the examination centre and back,” the official recounted.
  
  Zoomcar that has around 100 cars in Kolkata has witnessed a steady growth in offtake since it drove into the city five months ago. While hatchbacks that constitute nearly 60% of its fleet are much in demand during the weekdays for commute within Kolkata, SUVs and sedans come into play in weekends with people driving to Mandarmani, Digha, Santiniketan and Diamond Harbour. “We are sold out every weekend,” said Biswas.
  
  Not just Kolkata, Zoomcar co-founder and CEO Greg Moran (in pic) says the company hopes to ride on the growth to break even this year. “The market is expanding exponentially, both in terms of riders and service providers and will continue to grow as we move into Zap, a model that allows us to add cars much faster by bringing individual owners on to our platform,” said Moran.
  
  Zoomcar, Revv, Just Ride, MiCar, Carzonrent, Selfdrive.in, Voler and RentoMojo are some of the players exploring the opportunity in self-drive car rental market. Zoomcar, the biggest among them with 3,000-plus cars in the market, hopes to increase the count to 10,000 by December as Zap drives the growth.
  
  
  A big chunk of people who hire self-driven cars also own a car. Yet, they hire one for several reasons: need for a big vehicle when friends are visiting; occasions such as marriage; or on holiday when one’s own car is too old to be trusted for the highway trip
