GURUGRAM : While it is yet to rain as much as it did on the intervening night of July 28-29 last year, administrators are confident that there will be no rerun of   this time around, even if the city receives 50mm   continuously. 

 This   stems from the fact that the   between various arms of the city administration is sound this time. Apart from the deluge last year, the lack of coordination between the civil administration and the police was a major reason for things getting out of control, forcing many people to spend the entire night inside their cars on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway near Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Sandeep Khirwar, police commissioner, told TOI, “First, we have forged a close working relationship with the civil administration, including Huda, MCG and GMDA as well as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). On top of it, there is deployment of cops at all 23 critical points and thus we now have an early warning system in place. Every time it rains, a warning is sent out and necessary action is taken. We have been exchanging views and have listed out actions that need to be taken.”
 
 “Apart from the coordination, we are also prepared for better mobilisation of resources. Pumps, cranes and other resources are being put to better use. There are few other issues like minor waterlogging near Tau Devi Lal stadium and I am sure we’ll be able to solve them at the earliest,” he added.
 
 However, preveting waterlogging is still work in progress. GMDA and MCG chief V Umashankar said the pre-monsoon showers this year were a learning lesson. “The first rains of this season took us by surprise as waterlogging was reported at Rajiv Chowk, which was not the case last year. This year the problem could have been worse since construction work is on at three intersections — Iffco Chowk, Signature Towers Chowk and Rajiv Chowk — on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. However, the single key factor this time around has been better coordination between the police and other departments,” he said.
 
 “Apart from this, we have also been able to make use of each other’s expertise. For example, NHAI is aware that desilting is our forte and therefore it has asked us to do the job and is paying us. Likewise, NHAI is setting up four pump houses along the expressway and we are paying for it,” he added.
 
 The MCG has also created a kuchcha nullah along the railway line to avert waterlogging in areas like sectors 4 and 9. Desilting work has been done across the city and around 250 rainwater harvesting pits have been cleaned. Moreover, enough sumps have been created near Hero Honda Chowk to avoid waterlogging there this year. The fact that the flyover at the chowk is operational has definitely spelt relief for many.
 
