BENGALURU: The hunt for the elusive   Veerappan that lasted more than a decade also involved a contest between police forces of two neighbouring states - Karnataka and Tamil Nadu - for glory. On Friday, when cops who were involved in the search from both states shared the dais at a book launch in Bengaluru, undercurrents of this rivalry could still be detected behind the camaraderie and mutual respect they displayed for one another. 

 Nearly 13 years after Veerappan was slain, Tamil Nadu special task force (STF) chief   has come out with a book,  , a chronicle of the search for the bandit. It was Vijay Kumar and his unit, which finally succeeded in   down.
 
 Former Karnataka STF ch ief Shankar Bidari took the opportunity to affirm that neither he nor his team had committed excesses during the search for Veerappan. However, even as he was speaking, Vijay Kumar came forward and said, "I am taking over the STF." 
 
 Bidari said, "This book covers only 20% of the story. The rest will be told in time."
 
 Not unlike his stint with the STF, wherein he took charge of operations towards the end of the hunt, Vijay Kumar chose to address the audience at the end of the ceremony, but had everyone's ears. From his training days when his beefy trainer Rosy gave him nightmares, to the fateful day in October 2004 when he gave the order to fire more than 300 bullets at Veerappan, Vijay Kumar recalled his days as a cop in vivid detail.
 
 "Seeing a colleague's body shakes even the strongest commandoes," said Vijay Kumar, adding that there was no hatred for Veerappan in his heart. "I drew inspiration from Field Marshal Montgomery, who led the Allied troops in the Second World War. He always kept a photograph of his rival on his desk until the enemy fell. I had Veerappan's photograph on the target practice board," he added. 
 
 "When a decision about the book's cover had to be made, the choice was between a photograph of Veerappan or me. The choice was simple," he said, standing in front of the enlarged cover of his book that was dominated by the profile of the brigand. 
 
 
