Pune: The state government will implement the Real Estate and Regulatory Authority Rules ( ) 2017 from  . 

 Developers and real estate agents can access the   and register online. Consumers may have to wait a little longer if they have any issues as projects have to be registered under RERA.
 
 The website, https://maharera.mahaonline.gov.in, set up a week ago, has already received over 8,000 views ahead of the implementation. There were over 1,000 visitors on April 30.
 
 “The entire process will be done online and training has been given to developers to register with CREDAI. Consumers and real estate agents can visit the website. The rules have been uploaded along with the respective certificates for chartered accountants, architects and engineers certificates,” the   official said.
 
 The state has also made arrangements to go digital from the first day. There is a facility to pay the amount through netbanking, the official added. 
 
 The housing department officials confirmed that the election of the chairman and other members for Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur will be done on May 2. 
 
 The government of India had enacted the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 and all the sections of the Act were to come into force with effect from May 1, 2017. 
 
 Under this Act, the government established Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) for regulation and promotion of real estate sector in Maharashtra, with its headquarters in Mumbai and with members in Pune and Nagpur.
 
 State Credai president Shantilal Kataria had organised a seminar for developers ahead of the implementation last week. He said new projects may not be announced in the near future and registrations for the ongoing projects will take time with a deadline of July 31. “The website is user friendly and is likely to see a lot of activity,'' he added.
 
 While Pune Credai president Shrikant Paranjape said the trust inculcated by RERA from the customers will help developers too. " There will be teething troubles but that is bound to settle in the coming months,'' he added.
 
 Market watchers have called RERA rules pro-consumer that will help consumers register their grievances with authority. Members from the consumers forum are eagerly awaiting the implementation of RERA and are hopeful that the rules are implemented in letter and spirit. 
 
 "We are looking forward to RERA implementation from May 1. We have mobilised our consumer forums in the state. However, those wanting to register their complaints will have to wait till the project is registered under RERA. It will be not until July for ongoing projects,” Shirish Deshpande, chairman of the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, said.
 
 Analysts have stated that the real implications of RERA can only be gauged over a period of 2-3 years, but it will bring the necessary boost to the sector reeling under lack of funds and missing deadlines. 
 
 
