Seven days after the   put a cap on liquor being sold within 500-metre radius of the national and state highways to prevent accidents, Mumbai’s hospitality industry has been majorly hit. The ban has resulted in empty hotels, banquet cancellations and irate tourists seeking alternate arrangements. Following their meeting with the State Tourism Minister, Jaykumar Jitendrasinh Rawal where they put forth their grievances, the hotel industry is now seeking an appointment with CM Devendra Fadnavis. “The social impact of the ban is mammoth — many hotel owners will go bankrupt and the youth will be left jobless,” says  , President, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western   (HRAWI). While it hasn’t reached that stage yet, the rippling effect of the ban can already be seen at play around the highways of the city.

 
 
 Restaurants lining the highways wear a dismal look. While some have downed the shutters, others have put up ‘no alcohol’ signs. Nothing can be more telling than to see a bar trying to blank out the word from its name. 
 
 Says Bhaskar Shetty, owner of Padma Restaurant and Bar on Panvel highway, “We knew that liquor vendors along the highway will be shut after 31st March, but to shut our hotel was a shock when they came to inform us at midnight. We fall within the range, but our customers were mainly families and office people from nearby areas. The business has gone down by 80% as we are now serving only food. I have a staff of 40, but in this situation I need only 20 people. However, I cannot let them go.” 
 
 Kunal K, who lives in the suburbs, is gearing up for his marriage over the weekend. “I was in for a shock when I went to buy liquor from the regular wine shop near my home, which is close to the Western Express Highway. It had shut shop and put up a notice saying ‘dukan band aahe’. Left with no other choice I had to source liquor from a shop far away home,” he says.
 
 It’s the same story in South Mumbai. Says Adarsh Karwa, an investment banking professional, "With all the insanity in the world, this is like banning something that keeps us sane. We socialize and network over drinks, so this will impact business too.”
 
 
 
 Even bigger hotels are finding it tough to cope up with the situation. Says Kiran Bawa, Director of Bawa International Group of Hotels, “We don’t have bars and restaurants, but we depend on our room sales which has been hit. Our banquet bookings for the coming two weeks have got cancelled. We are feeling the pinch.”
 
 Seconding it,  , Director, Kamat Group of Hotels, says, “We have already seen corporate events move from our hotel, as well as functions getting postponed." 
 
 
 
 The hospitality industry claim that the biggest after-effects of this move would be the mass unemployment. Says Kamat, “With more than 10 lakh people in danger of losing jobs in the next few months, the government (or the court has) has not realised the kind of hell it will unleash. A person with no educational qualification has a chance to work in this industry and rise. Suddenly he/she will be left with no job after earning so well. There will be mass pandemonium. It will also have a massive impact on the rentals of commercial places since all the restaurants in malls also will have to go away. The depressed real estate market will go down further. Other than jobs, it will also affect suppliers, vendors, and the economy is going to take a huge tumble. If we don’t find a solution soon, we will have to let go off a fairly large percentage of our workforce. What do I do with barmens, waiters and others afterward? It will have a cascading effect on other sectors as well.”
 
 
 Given the fact that there’s been a ban on sale of liquor due to accidents on the highway, many argue that liquor is not the only reason. Bharat Sarda, branch manager with a logistic company, feels that there are many other reasons for road accidents on the highway, which need to be looked into, “One major cause for accidents on the highway is truck drivers dozing off while driving for 15 hours at a stretch. The government should pass a rule that the driver is not driving for more than 12 hours. Also, if the drivers on the highway are caught drunk while driving, the authorities should be strict about suspending their licence for a longer period of time, like for a year. Checking on the highway is sporadic. And even if there is checking, heavy bribing takes place. Laws to control all these should be strictly implemented and the penalty, heavier.” Riyaaz Amlani (President, National Restaurant Association of India) raises some more questions, “What about deaths caused due to speeding and overloading of trucks? Why is the SC not giving directions to the state government to put speed guns, radars and cameras? Why are the trucks not being weighed?"
 
 
 
 There are other ways to curb the menace. Considering cases of drunken driving have gone down in the city in the recent past, the same policies can be implemented on the highways instead of a blanket ban. Datwani says, “In the past two years, the traffic police in Mumbai have enforced strict methods against those who are driving drunk. If the same thing is done on the highways, there is no need of closing down businesses. Banning something is not the answer.” Kamat reiterates, “Tomorrow, depending on whether the ban is successful or not, they will want to extend the limit from 500 mtrs to 750 mtrs. Banning is totally illogical.” 
 
 "Which five-star hotel in the world does not serve alcohol? Besides being a vital service, restaurants and bars are the cradle of forming contemporary urban opinion and represent us in a positive way to the outside world. Instead of encouraging these places, we are constantly trying new ways to mess around with them? says Amlani.
 
 
 
 During this environment of uncertainty, all the associations representing hotels, bars and restaurants have come together to fight for the cause. They are hopeful about finding a solution as the government has been receptive to their grievances so far. If nothing works, Amlani says they will take the next step, “We are planning to get the ruling rectified. If the government doesn’t do it, then we will mobilise our resources. After all, this industry is bigger than the   — it employs around 6 million people in the country.”
 
 The need to get the ruling rectified goes beyond wanting to promote liquor. “It is about our fundamental and constitutional right. Big hotels who have already made big   suddenly lag behind their competition because faraway hotels can serve liquor at events, parties and weddings, but not us for no fault of ours,” concurs Kamat.
 
 
 
