KOLKATA: The   may travel further eastwards to New Town in its 42nd avatar next year, with the government planning to request the organisers,  , to hold the  ' pilgrimage next to Eco Park.

 The shift is because  , the venue, might be temporarily shut for renovation when the fair is held from January 31 to February 11 this year. Chief minister  , an ardent supporter of the book fair, is believed to be guiding the organisers on this.
 
 While guild members preferred to remain silent now, a senior government official said talks were on though it was an extremely “sensitive“ issue at the moment. He pointed out a fair of such mammoth proportions could not take place at the “Fair Ground“ of Rajarhat, located next to Rabindra Tirtha, which was one-third the size of Milan Mela. Another 17-acre ground located adjacent to Eco Park Gate 1, which was a little bigger than Milan Mela, might be chosen as the next venue, he said. This proposal to change the venue brought back memories of the time the Guild was forced to move their fair from Maidan, first to Salt Lake Stadium, then Park Circus Maidan and then to Milan Mela, following HC orders. The Guild, which had the backing of then government, had denied till the last moment that it would be shift out of Maidan.
 
 Talks of a change in venue started doing the rounds on Sunday, when the11day fair ended on Sunday. The demonetisation demon proved stronger than the Guild this time. Despite the organisers' best efforts, the sales figures were stuck at Rs 16 crore, a good Rs 5 crore less than that last year. “After demonetisation, people have been cautious while spending on books. We had anticipated it,“ said Guild president Sudhangshu Dey. “But we had 22 lakh visitors this time, the same as last year.“
 
 France will be the focal theme country of the fair next year, announce Guild general secretary Tridib Chatterjee in the presence of Bertand de Hartingh, counsellor for co-operation and cultural affairs and country director of Institut Francais India and Stephane Amalir, director of Alliance Francaise Du Bengale. A grand festival, Bonjour Kolkata, is being planned to coincide with the fair to celebrate the cultural and literary ties between France and Kolkata. With the book fair as the centre, it would also be held at Santiniketan and Chandernagore, Hartingh announced.
 
 
 
 
 A poetry festival for the visually challenged, Sparshanandan Braille Poetry Festival, was held at Monmartre in the book fair on Saturday. At least 30 visually impaired poets read out their works, at the end of which prizes were given away to those adjudged the best. This was the second edition of the festival, the first being at Bangla Akademi on January 19.
 
