As the Bengali community welcomes  , the ghorer meye, or the daughter of the house as they see her, the Goddess and her divine children witness a different kind of reception at the house of   every year. It’s a special celebration here, altogether.

 Straw, bamboo and punya mati from the Ganges might be some the key requisites for the kumors, or artisans, to create idols of Durga and her children — Ganesha, Laxmi, Saraswati and Kartik. But this artist by passion gives shape to the deities using everyday materials, namely old prints from English and Bangla dailies, ice cream sticks, art paper and the likes. By way of paper collages and paintings, creating his own version of the Goddess during Durga Puja is something Dilip has been doing for the past 20 years.
 
 “I’ve always been passionate about art since my childhood,” quips the septuagenarian, a retired officer of the defence production unit. “During my days at the ordnance factory in  , I was actively involved in making decorations for their in-house events and festivals, Durga Puja, Saraswati Puja, and  . I’d create art work on the side and rear panels of the pandal,” he tells us. When Dilip made Pune his permanent home in 2000, he decided to continue keeping his creative side alive.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The result of Dilip’s labour is up on display for us to see when we pay him a visit at his Anand Nagar house for some chai and charcha. We see a magnificent paper collage of Durga and her deiform entourage. While he has over 1000 artworks in acrylic and watercolour to his credit, there are over 50 dedicated to Goddess Durga alone. But the paper collages he makes during Pujo are perhaps the most novel of his creations. “The entire display is made from scratch using simple materials. There’s a lot of detailed cutting to be done and a number of adhesives that are used,” says Dilip, who receives assistance from his wife, Ena. It might take a couple of weeks before the final artwork is ready, but it is worth all the time and toil.
 
 There’s creativity in Dilip’s interpretation of the Goddess. Her attire is made up of old newspaper, and ice cream sticks make up her crown. The appropriation of the warrior goddess as a daughter of the land really stands out in his artwork. There’s immense symbolism too, evident by the very distinct features of each deity (namely the colour of Ganesha’s skin, or a money bank in Laxmi’s hands) and their vahanas. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 While Dilip credits his love for art to his school art teacher, and uncle, he now shares his passion with youngsters, teaching them art for no charge. He also keeps his Durga artwork on display at home during the festival for anyone who’s keen on dropping by. So, should you want to go over to admire the same, or learn a bit or two about art, you know you’ll be received warmly with some chai, and lots of stories about the Goddess.
 
 
 
 In 2008, the artist took his innovation to a whole new level when he created a collage that was about 6-ft tall and 6.5-ft wide. The collage, which took an entire month to complete, was installed in Dilip’s sitting room. Like every year, the Bandyopadhyay household received a stream of admirers from the neighbourhood, albeit more people. “Usually, when we install a collage at home during Pujo, we offer Pushpanjali and shlokas to Ma Durga, and neighbours and friends join in too. My wife offers fruits and sweets as prasad to visitors,” says Dilip, who, post the festival, is more than happy to give his work to someone who’s willing to take good care of it and preserve it.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Pictures by Santosh Mishra
