GHAZIABAD: The district administration on Monday launched an inquiry into circulation of large number of application forms promising cash incentives of Rs 2 lakh under Prime Minister’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme in the city. Several women flocked to post offices in the district during the day with filled-in application forms demanding the cash incentive.

 According to officials, they had confirmed from the Union ministry of women & child development that there was no such cash incentive attached to the scheme. The   have been found originating from certain photocopy shops in the city, officials said.
 
 On Monday, scores of women thronged the post office in   with filled-in application forms. “There were over 60 women at the post office with the application forms. They turned restive when post office officials refused to accept the forms. As a precautionary measure, police were sent to the post office. Cops turned away several applicants even though many chose to persist with their claims for the incentives,” said Parshuram, SHO, Kotwali police station.
 
 Similar queues were witnessed in several other post offices of the district on Monday notwithstanding a public notice issued by the district administration a day earlier, warning people not to fall into the trap.
 
 On Sunday, a BSP councillor of  , Ajit Bhati, had complained to the city magistrate after scores of forms were found circulating in Vijay Nagar. The city magistrate had conducted an inquiry through a flying squad in Vijay Nagar.
 
 “From enquiries made in Vijay Nagar, it seems the application forms originated from certain photocopy shops and got circulated thereon. A report has been sent to the city magistrate in this regard,” Keshav Ram, leader of flying squad 56A, told TOI.
 
 Officials said the website of the Union ministry too contains a notice warning members of the general public not to fall into the trap of the fake application forms. As per the notice, circulation of similar forms were reported from Lucknow, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar in the past. FIRs have also been registered in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar in such cases.
 
 “Our officers are trying to find the people who are behind circulation of the fake application forms. Stringent action will be taken against them,”   DM Nidhi Kesarwani told TOI.
 
 
