GURUGRAM: Two days after Haryanvi folk artiste   was killed by three armed assailants, the investigation revealed that two women were also involved in plotting the murder. Police are inquiring if the women were Saini’s co-artistes or bar girls working in Gurgaon.

 The three accused — Mahesh, Sachin and Gaurav — told interrogators that they had met the women around 10 days ago at Sahara mall. They, according to cops, also claimed that the women were working at pubs and bars. Police suspect the women are staying Bahadurgarh area. 
 
 During the interrogation, the accused revealed that they reached Gurgaon around 15 days ago after Mahesh stole Rs 4 lakh in cash from his employer who is a liquor vendor in Rohtak. The trio even hatched a plot to kill the businessman after he threatened Mahesh, asking him to return the stolen money. They then visited Alwar in Rajathan and bought weapons for around Rs 1 lakh.
 
 “The accused stayed in a hotel located near the bus stand for four days and celebrated Holi. Gaurav was working as an auto driver around a year ago, and then as an assistant in a spa in Gurgaon. They visited Sahara mall on the night of Holi and met the two women who came along with them to the hotel. They stayed with the women in the hotel that night and went to Madanheri village in   where Sachin lives, on March 18. The role of women in the artiste’s murder cannot be ruled out. The women are now absconding and switched off their mobile phones,” said an investigating officer. 
 
 Cops said the accused left their car in Sector 29 on March 16 after police intercepted them. Two illegal weapons were seized from the car. When police contacted the owner of the car, he claimed that one of the accused borrowed it from him, claiming that they were leaving for Vaishno Devi temple. Cops put them under the scanner, arrested them on Sunday night and found the folk artiste’s body in the car’s boot.
 
 “The accused revealed that they had hatched the plot to extract money from Saini, but when he refused to give the money, they shot him. The artiste’s body was handed over to his kin after the postmortem on Tuesday. We have lunched an operation to track and nab the women,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 
