NEW DELHI: Several cooperative banks across the country are suspected of laundering hundreds of crores in demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes by reporting more cash in hand to the   than the actual physical possession of such currency. This allowed them an extra window to convert illegal tender till December 30, the deadline by which commercial banks were allowed to accept banned notes. 

 During scrutiny of one such cooperative bank in Mumbai, the   had found the bank had over-reported its receipts by Rs 400 crore to the central bank. The income tax, too, has brought to the notice of the RBI two instances of cooperative banks from Mumbai and Pune which had over-reported cash receipts in banned currency by more than Rs 100 crore. The agencies suspect that these banks indulged in exchanging banned currency notes beyond the stipulated date. 
 
 The central bank had, within a week of the announcement of the   of big currency notes on November 8, stopped cooperative banks from accepting illegal tender. Such currency deposits and exchange were only allowed in commercial banks and at RBI counters.
 
 However, as the probe reveals, many of these cooperative banks maintained an option of accepting illegal tender much beyond the deadline by misreporting 'excess' cash pile to the RBI.
 
 An ED probe against 13 cooperative banks in Mumbai revealed that these banks had deposited Rs 1,596 crore in banned currency notes in the vault of a commercial bank in which they had maintained accounts. A cooperative bank in Surat was found to have deposited Rs 20 crore in demonetised currency with a government bank with which it had an account. All these cases are under investigation for the source of their cash receipts.
 
 In the Pune case, the cooperative bank reported to the RBI that it had accepted deposits of Rs 242 crore, while scrutiny of physical stock by the I-T revealed the bank only had Rs 141crore.
 
 The bank had misreported to the RBI possession of ‘excess’ old currency, as on December 23, to the tune of Rs 101 crore. In another case in Mumbai,
 the I-T found the cooperative bank having Rs 12 crore less cash in banned notes than what it had reported to the central bank, raising suspicion of
 money laundering.
 
