TRICHY: A nine-foot tall bronze statue of Tamil actor   Ganesan, which was installed at Prabhat theatre roundabout in Palakkarai in 2011 but remained concealed for years, was unveiled by his fans in the early hours of Thursday. However, a few hours later,   covered the statue with gunny bags citing that appropriate permissions for unveiling the statue were not obtained.

 Sources said the late actor’s fan clubs including the All India Sivaji Rasigar Mandram and Trichy Sivaji Fans Welfare Association jointly installed the bronze statue on a three-foot-high plinth at the Prabhat theatre roundabout in 2011. Fans of the first ever Indian actor to receive Chevalier award from French government said that Prabhat theatre was chosen as the spot for installing the statues as the theatre was screening Sivaji Ganesan’s yesteryear movies frequently. Though the statue was erected at an estimated cost of Rs 9 lakh sponsored by the former DMK minister K N Nehru in March 2011, the ensued state assembly election reportedly deferred the unveiling. Fans also alleged that the AIADMK government that assumed power post the 2011 assembly elections did not show interest in unveiling the statue even as the required permissions were obtained from multiple departments.
 
 R C Prabhu, district secretary of All India Sivaji Fans Club said, “Seeing the veiled statue of our favourite actor was frustrating. Unveiling of the statue was an elusive affair owing to the absence of support from the government machinery.” Sources said that the statue had been kept covered for past six years due to political reason as the majority of funding for the bronze statue was contributed by the opposition party DMK. 
 
 Around 4 am on Thursday, more than a dozen fans of the late actor unveiled the statue, surprising   and even the district administration. The fans went on to garland the bronze statue after cleaning the same which was kept concealed for years. However, the euphoria of the fans’ was short-lived. On information, the Gandhi Market police reached the spot around 6.30 am and covered the statue with gunny bags. 
 
 Commenting about the developments on Thursday, K N Nehru, Trichy West MLA who funded the statue told TOI, “Irrespective of the people who place demands, officials should pay heed to the genuine requests. If government machinery is dormant, it is the responsibility of officials and bureaucrats to take measures for the unveiling of   in Trichy.” 
 
 The incident has taken palce days ahead of the scheduled inauguration of Sivaji Ganesan’s memorial in Chennai. The memorial was built by the public works department, and will be inaugurated on the actor’s birth anniversary on October 1. Following the incident, police protection has been stepped up around the statue while further investigations are on.
 
