AHMEDABAD : The 600-year-old  , Ahmedabad, and its buildings bearing   to a  , became the symbol of a multicultural, pluralistic and a dynamic community of the 15th century, leading to it clinching   on Saturday.

 A second major reason was Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violent struggle, which had its roots in this city. It was these aspects of the city that led 20 countries to rally behind Ahmedabad’s nomination as a world heritage city on Saturday, at the 41st session of the World Heritage Committee meeting in Poland. The Unesco thinktank, International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), had differed with Ahmedabad’s inscription, citing various conservation concerns, inadequate documents and absence of a convincing heritage management plan. However, the 20 countries stood behind Ahmedabad and convinced the chair of the session that the state parties, the ASI and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, were committed to ensuring strict implementation of development control regulations and that a few countries had found the dossier comprehensive and convincing.
 
 Words of support for walled city from world
 
 Turkey: The historic property is an example of multi-cultural community network. Its local Hindu and Islamic architecture is exceptional. Many of the recommendations of the advisory body for conservation of the property are either ongoing or under implementation. Thus we fully support Ahmedabad’s inscription under criteria 2 and 5.
 
 Lebanon : Icomos report has suggested that the historic site has a major potential to justify the cited Outstanding Universal Values. The problems mentioned seem to be mainly linked to managing development projects in the western part of the old city, especially in the buffer area, as well as the effective implementation of the management plan. The state party is committed to regulating developments at the site and has to finalize the management plan. We support the property’s inscription as a World Heritage City.
 
 Tunisia : The magnificent monuments of sultanate show architectural values of Hindu and Muslim character and are a fitting example of universal multicultural architecture. The state party has expressed its clear commitment to solve all problems regarding integrity and authenticity according to a calendar agreed to by Icomos. We are convinced the state body will achieve all goals. We therefore recommend inscription of the property under criteria 2 and 5.
 
 Portugal: We can’t forget that the city was where Mahatma Gandhi initiated the movement for India’s independence. The Bhadra citadel, mosques, temples, and gardens depict a unique confluence of Hindu-Muslim art and architecture.
 
 Kuwait: Ahmedabad is the city of Mahatma Gandhi. On March 12, 1930, he embarked on the salt march from this city and spread the message that freedom can be won through non-violent means. The city has a unique fusion of Hindu and Muslim architecture which is of 600 years old. The city is also committed to preserving its beautiful heritage and the city needs to be inscribed.
 
 
  : The architecture of the historic city of Ahmedabad depicts a pluralistic expression of cultural interchanges and well as presence of a synthesis of Hindu and Muslim architecture and several aesthetic and artidistic expression of syncretism. We also think that the committee should consider inscribing the property and acknowledge that the state party is taking a series of measures to protect the property and has shown shown political will to carry out Icomos recommendations
 
 Finland : We congratulate the excellent wok and extensive analysis depicted in the Ahmedabad dossier. The justification of OUV is well argued and urban planning of wooden houses is well depicted.
 
