PATNA: Even as Patna University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) election is scheduled to be held just after a week, on April 12, there is hardly any sign of electioneering on the campus. 

 As many as four of the seven key office-bearers, including president, have already been elected unopposed and as many as 12 posts of executive committee members remained vacant as no candidate filed nomination papers for these seats. Now, a little more than 250 teachers would cast their votes on April 12 for the election of general secretary and two vice-presidents of the association. The president, treasurer and two joint secretaries have been elected unopposed.
 
 Why have Patna University (PU) teachers become so indifferent to their association election? Have they lost interest in association activities or become quite pessimistic about any improvement in the   are some of questions   of academics for quite some time.
 
 Some teachers feel the   is a satisfied lot today, getting fat pay package on time every month. Moreover, they also think the association has not been successful in getting teachers’ demands fulfilled through strikes and agitations in recent years. Whatever little they have got, that is through legal intervention. The associations have practically lost their purpose these days, they observe. 
 
 Patna University has had a glorious history of organizing statewide teachers’ movements against academic and social problems since its inception in 1917. With the reorganization of Patna University as a teaching-cum-residential university, a separate affiliated university known as Bihar University was established in 1952 with all the colleges located outside the city of Patna. This led to formation of two separate state-level organizations of college and university teachers — the PUTA and Bihar University Teachers’ Association. The former, as a matter of fact, remained in the vanguard of the teachers’ movement in Bihar during 1950s. By 1960-61, teachers’ associations were formed in all the universities of the state. The teachers of other universities expressed their solidarity with the teachers of PU and opposed the state government move to change the teaching-cum-residential character of PU. 
 
 Consequently, the state government had to withdraw the  
 
 The Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) came into being on May 7, 1967 at a convention of delegates of teachers’ associations of all the universities. It was held at the IMA Hall in Patna. Later, on April 8, 1971, the Federation of University Service Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUSTAB) was formed to take care of the teachers of the constituent colleges and postgraduate departments of different universities. Since 1979, both the federations — FUTAB and FUSTAB — have been launching agitations and strikes jointly for fulfilment of teachers’ demands, with considerable success.
 
 But, in recent times, there is no coordination as such between different organizations of teachers. Consequently, no teachers’ movement of any considerable significance has been witnessed after 2000, even though there have been considerable inroads to university autonomy during the period, feel the teacher activists.
 
