New Delhi: The February 22 violence created a sense of anxiety at the north campus of Delhi University, so much so that   College had to “postpone” its street play competition “to maintain peace.”

 However, while Khalsa went on with their   on Saturday, many DU colleges contemplated their decision to continue with their initial plans on holding fests. While some colleges are going about as scheduled, many have postponed the events “due to the condition on the campus.”
 
 Ramjas   was supposed to host a two-day history fest starting Monday. “We have decided to reschedule the event and will decide on the dates soon,” said Pranab Chakraborty, president history department.
 
 The college also hosts an annual fest — Mosaic — which will also be rescheduled and the dates will be decided only after the environment on the campus gets better, said Yogit Rathi, president Ramjas College union.
 
 Some colleges said that they have rescheduled their fests due to personal reasons. Daulat Ram College has postponed their event, due on March 2 and 3. Principal, Savita Roy said, “It is because of the “non-availability” of artists. The artists invited were busy and the fest will take place depending on their availability.” 
 
 Similarly, Lakshmibai College’s philosophy department too decided to move its two events “because the dates were clashing,” said  , member of the organising committee, stating clearly that it was not a because of the current   at the campus.
 
 Hindu college also will organise their fest from March 8 to 10, while earlier it was scheduled for February 29 to March. Kamala Nehru College also cancelled a play because of “objectionable words” used in it.
 
 However, there are many colleges that went on with their initial plans and are conducting their fests as per the plan. Sachin Saipawar of   said that their fest will take place on the decided dates — March 3 to 5. Likewise, Hansraj College, too will continue with its scheduled fest, which is set to begin on March 7.
 
