PUNE: Citizens have taken to social media to express their displeasure at the brazenness with which men in khakhi break rules. 

 While they alleged the traffic police usually drag its feet on taking action, senior officials have stated that rules remain the same for all. 
 
 Some citizens have regularly been posting comments on Pune traffic police’s Facebook page, while others have tried to catch the cops’ attention through their Twitter handle and WhatsApp numbers. 
 
 Some of the most recent posts have been made by software professional Prakash Somaiya, who has shared quite a few photographs of policemen riding without helmets, jumping traffic signals and stopping on or beyond the zebra crossing. Interestingly, these are the most common offences for which ordinary citizens are pulled up by the traffic police every day, accumulating more than Rs15 crore for the state coffers in 2016. 
 
 There are innumerable such online posts, going as far back as late 2015. However, none of them appear to have any response about action taken in the matter by the traffic police. 
 
 Sharing his experience of reaching out to the police, Somaiya said, “While I do appreciate the hard work the police put in, they need to walk the talk or it won’t be possible to bring a change in observing traffic rules. Unfortunately, I see at least one man in khakhi breaking the law every day. A few times, I was lucky to get snaps and shared it with the Pune traffic police on Twitter and Facebook but it was of no use. I did not receive any updates from them.”
 
 “I have shared the images and details with the officer in-charge of traffic in our area as well as with assistant commissioner of police RS Bhrame on WhatsApp,” Somaiya added .
 
 Another citizen  , who posted a photograph on Facebook on June 29, wrote, “Here even the traffic police are violating the zebra crossing. God save the country.”
 
 Commenting on the seemingly unequal treatment of the police, Rohit Patankar also took to Facebook to post a picture of a policeman riding without a helmet. 
 
 “Traffic police, family member and warden breaks the signals and rules many times. They catch common people and fine (them) for break(ing) rules. Please give instructions to law breaking police to follow the rules,” he wrote in his January post.
 
 Traffic police officials, on their part, say policemen are challaned just as ordinary citizens although no record of action against them is maintained separately. 
 
 Refuting all citizen’s allegations, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said, “Traffic laws are equal for all citizens, including the police. In fact, we have very strict instructions from the police commissioner not to spare any policemen seen flouting rules. We are particularly strict against those not wearing helmets while riding and the misuse of the police name by way of logos and names of their department pasted on vehicles.”
 
