PUNE:  ,  , have turned into backroom boys for the Bharatiya Janata Party ( ), which is fighting the municipal polls alone.

 From managing the party’s mobile application to scanning local newspapers for any reports on the party to updating the city unit’s Facebook page to checking and re-checking every data, they are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that everything goes without a hitch with less than a week ahead of the polls. 
 
 A student of engineering at the  , twenty-one-year-old Venkatesh Mallesham Manturi remains glued to either a desktop or a laptop at the ‘war room’ of the BJP during the day. A seven hour stint at the party office fetches him Rs 400.
 
 “I can manage both studies and work at the same time. Here, I and a few others manage the mobile application of the BJP Pune City. I started working here around one and half months’ back. With less than a week left for the elections, the work has become hectic but I am okay with it. The job is challenging but interesting,” Venkatesh told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The atmosphere is electric at the party office, where people are seen engaged in feverish discussion. While some are trying to keep the candidates abreast of the model code of conduct, many are seen walking up and down the corridor or holding their smartphones close to their ears and nodding their heads.
 
 Vinayak Ambekar, who is the treasurer of the party, said that the candidates have been asked to submit the accounts of daily expenses every day. “The candidates don’t generally come as they are busy campaigning but send in their representatives to the office. On Monday, we had called half of our candidates and briefed them in detail about the model code of conduct so that they don’t make any last-minute mistakes. Tuesday too will see many candidates coming to the office late evening. We are also making sure voters’ lists are complete,” he told TOI.
 
 Back in the ‘war room”, Kumar Jarag (21) is poring over a huge map depicting the number of panels, wards etc.
 
