Trichy: The Syndicate of Bharathidasan University has convened a meeting on Friday to accelerate the process of appointing a permanent registrar and controller of examination (COE). The meeting will decide the syndicate nominee to the three-member committee which will select candidates for the posts that have been lying vacant for about two years now. 

 The posts had gained significance in recent times for taking vital decisions in the university in the absence of a vice-chancellor from June this year. The three-member committee will have a nominee each from the government and syndicate besides an expert from the field who will be appointed as the third member of the committee. 
 
 While applications have been received and scrutinised, the delay in appointment has been affecting the administrative mechanism of the university. The posts of registrar and COE as well as director of distance education have been held by temporary officers. 
 
 Pointing out that the entire university system in the state had been affected by in-charge syndrome, former president of Association of University Teachers, K Pandiyan, said that a majority of the posts of officers were either vacant or held by in-charge people and Bharathidasan University was no exception. 
 
 “A permanent registrar or COE is appointed for a period of three years. The confidence of holding the post for a long time will give enough strength to him to take decisions on any matter unlike an in-charge staff who would only think of safeguarding his position. That stops him from taking vital decisions,” he said.
 
 However, by accelerating the process of appointing the officers, it had become certain that the selection of vice-chancellor would be delayed further, allege another section of academicians. The higher education department was suddenly speeding up the appointment of registrar and COE which had been vacant for about two years now. But there were no efforts whatsoever to complete the   vice-chancellor search committee by appointing a government nominee. The syndicate and senate nominee to the three-member committee was already elected two months now. 
 
 
