PATNA: The state assembly passed the Bihar Appropriation Bill (No. 2) amid opposition walkout on Tuesday, paving way for the withdrawal of state’s annual budgetary provision of Rs1.60 lakh crore for 2017-18 from the Consolidated Fund.
 
    minister   tabled the bill in the assembly. Replying to the debate, Siddiqui said the state has a healthy financial condition “under the able leadership of CM Nitish Kumar”. He said development, poverty alleviation and fiscal stability were at the top of the government’s agenda.
  
  Siddiqui said the fact that the annual budget size has been increased by 10.03% this year from last the fiscal plan size speaks volumes about the state’s good financial condition. He further said the state government was committed to implementing the   (seven resolves) besides attaining the target of road construction and electricity supply.
  
  The finance minister said the norms for borrowing by the states under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act has been relaxed in view of the good financial condition and the state is allowed to borrow up to 3.5% of its GDP. A proposal was under consideration for allowing borrowing up to another 0.25 per cent, he added.
  
  “The state’s borrowing stands at 23.92% of the state GDP, which may go up to 25%,” Siddiqui said.
  
  Later, the assembly witnessed pandemonium following a controversial remark made by BJP MLA Binod Kumar Singh against RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Binod said the Lalu-Rabri rule between 1997 and 2005 had ushered ‘jungle raj’ in Bihar.
  
  Reacting over the remark, RJD MLA Bhola Yadav demanded Binod’s apology. The JD(U) and Congress members supported Bhola’s demand.
  
  Speaker   Choudhary said members should not make remarks on national leaders who are not the members of the House and a clarification can be sought from the member (Binod) for passing the remark on RJD chief. The Speaker urged the MLAs to maintain the decorum of the House.
  
  “Such remark against Lalu ji in the assembly is unpardonable as he is not a member of the House. Appropriate action must be taken against the BJP member (Binod),” Bhola told reporters outside the assembly.
