PUNE: The highway safety patrol (HSP) will soon install around 35 flexible   in the extreme   of the   in the ghat section. The barriers, made of high quality rubber, will deter slow-moving,   from blocking the right lane, which is used for  .

 Additional director general of police (HSP) R K Padmanabhan had issued directions to install these barriers and the first one was put up near Khalapur on the expressway on Monday. Around 35 more barriers will soon be installed after every 300 metres or so in the ghat section.
 
 Heavy vehicles often tend to occupy all three lanes of either corridor of the expressway, holding up smaller vehicles travelling behind them. The situation is particularly aggravated during long weekends, like in August last year, when there is a rush of people using the expressway. On Sunday, two separate accidents at Kamshet resulted in vehicles queuing up for kilometres behind.
 
 HSP officials said traffic jams are regularly seen in the 12-km stretch between the Khalapur and Kusgaon toll posts due to heavy vehicles moving slowly in all three lanes. The traffic chaos worsens should a heavy vehicle break down anywhere in the ghat section.
 
 Police said emergency vehicles such as ambulances could use the right lane as they would easily pass under the barriers. However, the barriers would restrict the entry of buses.
 
 The HSP authorities have chalked out a detailed plan to install the height barriers with the help of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation and Ideal Road Builders.
 
 Padmanabhan has already introduced the “golden hour” system under which heavy vehicles are barred from using the expressway for a few hours on weekends because of the rush of smaller vehicles. Heavy vehicles going from Mumbai to Pune are stopped at the Khalapur toll post and those going from Pune to Mumbai are halted at Kusgaon during these hours.
 
 HSP authorities said they fine around 18,000 traffic offenders on the expressway each month. Several of these cases are of motorists breaching the speed limits or those not observing lane discipline.
 
