BENGALURU: With only a day (July 30) left for filing objections, Bengalureans on Saturday submitted 3,000 letters in two hours against the new draft zoning regulations.   ( ) helped members of 18 resident welfare associations (RWAs) and others gather at a mass objection-filing camp at MS Building . A total of 10,000 objections have been filed.

 Citizen activists and RWA members have been urging the state government not to notify the new rules whose draft was issued on July 1. The citizens' campaign, #HosaZoningBeda, gathered momentum in the past few weeks. Citizens are concerned about the provision to allow commercial and even industrial setups in residential areas where road width is 30 feet and less. This will increase commercialization of residential areas, increase pollution and threaten safety of the elderly and kids, they argue.
 
 While 1,500 objections were filed by Indiranagar residents, 1,428 were submitted by Malleswaram residents. Richmond and   submitted 560 letters and hundreds of signatures were filed from Hennur, RBI Layout, Banashankari, Cox Town, Kumara Park, Shastri Layout and Vijaynagar. Nithya Reddy from Richmond and Langford Town CWA said: “If the new norms come into effect, life in residential areas too will be miserable.“
 
 Srinivas Allavilli, member of CfB, said: “The officials have decided to go through each letter and hold public consultations in various areas.“
 
 Sneha Nandihal, resident of Indiranagar, said they are unable to understand the reason behind these rules. “It invalidates all the work being done for the Bengaluru master plan and is in violation of the high court orders,“ she said.
 
  from Vijayanagar, said: “My house is close to the Metro station and the service road is full of eateries, pharmacies and clinics. Vehicles are parked in front of my house as there's no space at the station. It is not safe for my mother to go to the neighbourhood. These are examples of failed urban planning. Vijayanagar is not Koramanagala and a blanket zoning regulation will backfire because the city is not planned.“
 
 CfB members will meet Bengaluru incharge minister K J George and Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao on Monday to discuss the matter.
 
