BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh health department has announced to introduce testing for chromosomal abnormalities during pregnancy. It would be a part of the advanced facilities at its state early intervention centre to be set up at Link Road 3 in Bhopal.

 The facility would also include free test to diagnose down syndrome before birth (prenatally). The announcement comes ahead of World Down Syndrome Day on March 21. Marking the start of weeklong awareness programmes for down syndrome awareness and identification of patients, district collector Nishant Warwade held a press conference here on Wednesday. “The incidence of down syndrome in the population is about 2.5%. About 200 patients in Bhopal have been given necessary care for free in the last year. Our focus is on creating awareness and helping more children as early as possible,” he said. Early intervention, acceptance and awareness are key to managing down syndrome. “State early detection centre would provide for testing of pregnant women. It would include tests for down syndrome,” said district chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Veena Sinha.
 
 Diagnostic test would confirm whether or not the baby is affected by certain chromosomal abnormalities that can cause down syndrome. “Test would be vital for parents who already have a child with abnormalities. At times birth defects are inherited from mother or father of a child. Gene or chromosomal defects can be passed on,” she explained. Diagnostic tests for down syndrome before birth (prenatally) are amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling. Children affected with down syndrome undergo the same physical transformation as a normal adolescent. However, the inability to express and lack of understanding on part of the parents and society often pushes these affected children into depression.
 
 A major cause chromosomal disorder is down syndrome. It is caused by an error in cell division that results in an extra 21st chromosome and affects more than 30,000 babies born every year in India. There is no treatment for chromosome abnormalities. If the diagnosis is made before birth, medical termination of pregnant (MTP) act permits termination of pregnancy, depending on the nature of the abnormality. World Down Syndrome Day is observed by the World Health Organisation with an objective to create awareness regarding the condition and to ensure social security for such kids.
 
 According to the CMHO office, in the last year over 41 children with down syndrome were diagnosed with congenital cardiac problems and were provided necessary medical intervention. Ten of these children have undergone cardiac surgery. This year, 76 children have been added and are being provided care at Samarpan Kendra in JP hospital campus.
 
 So far 133 have been referred for ENT treatment, 18 were sent to a gastroenterologist, 113 to an ophthalmologist, 95 children each were referred for orthopaedic and dental care. More complicated cases were referred for neurological care and two children were treated by a psychiatrist.
 
