Day 83 begins with   doing the dinasari samayal. Later, Bigg Boss asks housemates to divide themselves into two teams with  ,   and   in one team and Ganesh, Snehan and   in the other.   is the judge for the event. He asks both teams questions about quinoa the answers for which are already provided on the packets of quinoa provided to them. Bindu’s team wins the game.

 Later, Bigg Boss asks them to play a game where housemates have to pick balls from others and put it in their basket. Housemates are assigned a basket and a bag of balls and small container. When a contestant is standing inside the container, it’s an act of defense and the remaining housemates are not allowed to pick the balls then. Bindu opts out of the game after she has a small altercation with Snehan and Vaiyapuri loses the game. Bindu tells Suja that she is fed up of what’s happening with the rules of the games in Bigg Boss house.
  
  Bigg Boss then assigns a new task to the housemates which are said to the ticket to finale. The game is titled Jithu Jilladi Nee Killadi. Bigg Boss asks housemates to steal items of others. The items include personal accessories, footwear, personal hygiene electronics, cosmetics, clothes and memorabilia. Housemates should steal items from all the category and if the housemate from whom they steal catch them in the act, they will not be allowed to steal again in that category. Arav begins the task soon after the buzzer rings and he steals personal products from the rest room. Others too begin the stealing act. In the meantime, Harish is upset that his lens cap is missing. He says that he won’t be able to use his lens, if the lens cap is missing. He is also upset with Arav and asks if he began stealing before the buzzer rang. Harish then tells Bigg Boss that he didn’t like the way the game is being played and asks Bigg Boss to evict him from the house. Snehan blames Arav that the rules were not read out properly to him and that it was not a fair game. Vaiyapuri gets injured in the process and housemates pause the game for a bit.
 
 
 At night Bigg Boss assigns five points to Ganesh, Harish and Arav and asks them to divide the points among them. Harish says that he is anyway losing the game and that it doesn’t make much of a difference to him. So, Ganesh and Arav take two points each and Harish takes one. 
  
    meets the housemates and appreciates them for playing the game well. He asks them about the memorable games in the house. While Suja and Snehan talk about the car game, Arav says that stealing the ball game was more interesting as it involved a lot of strategy .Vaiyapuri said that he picked the swimming game a lot as it was the only game he finished and picked up lot of points. Snehan later tells that Suja would do anything to win the game and Harish says that he wants to leave the house. However, Kamal Haasan says that Harish is sa ved this week.
 
 
