AURANGABAD: The central mess facility for students at the Dr   ( ) opened to students on Wednesday.

 This comes nearly nine months after its formal inauguration by University Grants Commission ( ) chairman Ved Prakash in August 2016.
 
 Bamu officials chose the occasion of Buddha Purnima to start operations at the spacious facility, which has been gathering dust for long. The university was struggling to find a private contractor to run the facility, which led to the delay.
 
 Suhas Morale, director of student welfare at Bamu, said an e-tendering process was undertaken to appoint a private firm to run the facility. “We received a total of six bids, of which three were shortlisted and one finalised after scrutinising rates and other parameters. The contract between the university and the private party will last 11 months and it will be continued after performance of review,” he said.
 
 Bamu is to provide furniture and a water purifier system at the  , while the private firm will take care of other arrangements.   over around more than 13,000 square feet of land in front of the university’s main building, the facility was built at a cost of over Rs 1.67 crore. It has been designed to cater and accommodate over 200 people at one time.
 
 While construction-related issues delayed the facility from starting, the university planned on operating it using the resources available with the proposed hotel management and catering technology (HMCT) courses. But, this could not materialise.
 
 Construction work on the central mess facility was to be completed by mid-2015. However, the incomplete work on the rooftop and some other work had pushed the deadline further.
 
 University hostels have traditional mess facility, but the student community has been pressing for a central mess facility to ensure good hygiene and quality food.
 
 Student unions have welcomed the move to start the lunch home with a hope that it will be a student-centric facility. “The food quality should not at all be compromised. Bamu authorities should ensure that students are not overcharged and the rates of different products as stipulated in the contract are followed,” Sushil Rathod of the Students Federation of India, said.
 
 Rahul Tayde of the Nationalist Youth Congress said the central mess facility should emerge as a full-fledged lunch home. “The university campus has different mess facilities running at hostels with students often complaining about food quality and other issues. The new lunch home should serve as a central mess facility in the true sense and fulfill all the needs of students, including breakfast, lunch and dinner,” he said.
 
 
