NEW DELHI: The   of an assembly knocking the doors of the court is “an extraordinary circumstance”, Delhi high court said on Friday, taking a dim view of a tussle over posting of a central government official in the Delhi assembly.

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said that such matters should be resolved amicably without coming to court, giving 10 days to the   and the AAP government to resolve the fight over repatriation to Centre of secretary of the assembly.
 
 “He is not such an officer that two governments (Delhi and the Centre) should fight over him. Why cannot it be resolved amicably?” the bench asked.
 
 The court’s remarks came during the hearing of a plea by Delhi legislative assembly speaker   challenging then lieutenant governor Najeeb Jung’s order repatriating assembly secretary   to Centre.
 
 An officer belonging to newsreader-cum-translator (Telugu) cadre, Suryadevara was sent back to All India Radio (AIR), his parent organisation. Goel refused to relieve him arguing his services are require by the assembly. Goel wants “permanent absorption” of the officer for the assembly.
 
 Issuing notice to Centre, the bureaucrat and   HC gave them time to report back by January 17 even as the Centre assured the court it won’t insist on repatriation till the next date of hearing.
 
 Appearing for Goel, senior advocate P Chidambaram assailed the LG’s order arguing that assembly speaker holds a constitutional office and without his concurrence,   cannot remove the officer.
 
 In his plea Goel has also questioned the memos issued by AIR to Suryadevara directing him to join his parent organisation immediately failing which he will be treated to be on “unauthorised absence.”
 
 Goel said he decided to “approach this hon’ble court rather than choosing to initiate proceedings for breach of privilege and contempt of the House against a wing of Union government so that the court makes them see reason and accede to a highly reasonable request made by the assembly and the speaker.”
 
 Suryadevara, who has served in the office of the Lok Sabha speaker for five years and that of the Rajya Sabha chairman for over six years, was appointed to the post of Delhi assembly secretary in July 2015 for a year, on expiry of which AIR had directed him to return.
 
 
