Madurai: Seeking to extend the October 31 deadline to decide the election dispute case about allotment of AIADMK party symbol to the splinter group to February 28 next year, sidelined AIADMK leader T T V Dhinakaran has filed a petition before the Madras high court Madurai bench.

 Besides, Dhinakaran has sought a direction to the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to enlarge the scope of the dispute case and further direction to grant sufficient opportunity to the parties to produce defence, reply and rebuttal before the commission. It is expected that his case would come up for hearing soon. 
 
 The Madurai bench on September 15 passed an order on a petition filed by B Ramkumar Adityan directing the ECI to decide the symbol case on or before October 31, considering the election commission’s past practice in deciding the Samajwadi Party dispute and also taking into account the likelihood of by-election and local body elections in the state. 
 
 Dhinakaran said pursuant to the high court order, the election commission on September 21 invited submissions from the parties to the case before October 4. As the time given by the commission was not sufficient, some more time was sought to file replies by way of sending a representation. But, the commission rejected the request citing high court’s order, he said. 
 
 He said on the basis of incorrect presentation of facts by the petitioner that the local body elections are to be conducted by November 17 this year and a notification in that regard is to be issued by September 19, the court fixed October 31 as deadline. But, the state election commission has sought time to carry out delimitation process before election, he said.
 
 Besides, the court’s earlier order did not envisage that the election commission might invite fresh affidavits and submissions. But, the commission invited fresh affidavits. This led to Madhusudhanan, O Panneerselvam and Semmalai to file documents running into 10,000 pages. Earlier, the election commission had told the court that it was not in a position to pass final order in the party symbol case because of voluminous records filed by the parties. The pages of records ran into several thousands, he said.
 
 He also said, “Further, the affidavits, now filed before the commission, also included those of retractions of persons from their earlier position of supporting party general secretary V K Sasikala and me as the leader of the party. These retractions are required to be verified as to the same is volunteering or under influence. I, too, need to file documents to an extent of 8,000 pages. Under these circumstances it is impossible to effectively reply to the documents.” 
 
 Besides, the election commission has enlarged the scope of the dispute by allowing illegally altered bye-laws and illegal resolutions on record, which has also raised serious disputed question of facts, he said.
 
 
