PHAGWARA: Instead of ending with the polling process, the bitterness within factions of Phagwara BJP has continued to brew, ultimately resulting into an assault and multiple police complaints. The latest episode started with a post on Facebook by a local BJP leader. The war of words that ensued turned into in an assault on former Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district president Ashok Duggal for which BJP district general secretary   has also been booked, apart from two others.

 Interestingly, the Congress has also jumped in the support of one group of BJP and its candidate   even staged a dharna outside Phagwara SP’s office after police picked up wife and two children of Deepa’s associate Vivek Chadha.
 
 Meanwhile, Phagwara city police station SHO Nirmal Singh was shunted to police lines on Friday evening for bringing Chadha’s wife and children to police station even though they were not wanted in the case. The ZSHO is also accused of misbehaving with the woman while pushing her into the police vehicle as no women police personnel was present when they raided Chadha’s house.
 
 According to the police, Duggal, who is son of former Phagwara Municipal Committee president Balbhadar Sen, was assaulted and sustained injury on his face on the night of February 8. His wife Neetu, who is also a municipal councillor, said that they were at a social function when her husband was called out by Nitin Chadha, who was also accompanied by Deepa and Vivek Chadha. Deepa’s wife Kuljit Kaur is also a municipal councillor.
 
 Neetu alleged that there was an attempt to outrage her modesty. However, Deepa claimed that he was alone. He has also submitted an application for police inquiry, which was also on.
 
 Police registered a case for attempt to murder and criminal assault against Deepa and others but Phagwara SP   said that they were still inquiring into the contentions of either sides.
 
 On Wednesday late night, BJP leaders, led by Balbhdar Sen and former municipal councillor Rakesh Duggal, also staged a dharna outside Satnampura police station. The police registered a case against them also for obstructing public servants.
 
 While police have already conducted raids to arrest Deepa and others on Friday, city SHO Nirmal Singh and Satnampura SHO Sulakhan Singh raided Vivek Chadha’s house and brought his wife and children to police station. Mann and other Congress activists staged a dharna after which the three were released. They also produced a video clip in which Nirmal was seen pushing her into a vehicle. Phagwara DSP D D Sharma sent a report to SP Harvinder Singh finding fault with Nirmal after which he was shunted to police lines by Friday late evening.
 
 
