LONAVLA: Robbery, a love triangle or some ‘immediate provocation’ have emerged as the three motives for the brutal murder of the two engineering students in   on Monday, the Pune rural  , who ruled out the possibility of an honour killing, said. 

 The students, a 21-year-old girl and a 22-year-old youth, were found murdered at an isolated spot located at ‘S’ Point on Lonavla–Amby Valley Road overlooking Lonavla dam on Monday afternoon. Both were stripped and bludgeoned to death with stones. The suspects had also assaulted them with sharp weapons.
 
 Additional superintendent of police Rajkumar Shinde told TOI that the police have got a preliminary post-mortem report from forensic experts at Sassoon hospital in Pune. “The report states that the girl was not sexually abused by the suspects,” Shinde said.
 
 The medical report states that they died of head injuries, Shinde said. “So far, we are in the dark,” Shinde said.
 
 Both were final-year engineering students of a college in Lonavla. They were to appear for their examinations in a month and had gone to the spot on a motorcycle. “They were last seen by one of their friends at 8.30pm on Sunday on the Amby Valley Road,” Shinde said.
 
 The girl’s native place is Otur in Junnar taluka but her parents are working as teachers in a school in Talegaon Dabhade where she grew up. The youth is a native of Rahuri in Ahmednagar district.
 
 “Their cellphones are missing. The assailants may have beaten them up to steal their cellphones,” Shinde said.All other valuables, the motorcycle, their identity cards and other documents were found at the spot. 
 
 Police are also working on a love triangle angle. “The two may have been in love and somebody may not have liked it,” he said.
 
 Lastly, the police suspect that unidentified persons may have spotted them in the woods . “The deceased may have resisted them and the suspects may have overpowered and killed them,” Shinde said.
 
 On Tuesday morning, about 50 policemen, including senior police officers searched for some   at the crime scene, located on the hill. However, nothing suspicious was found in the search.
 
