PANAJI: Despite the   order, dated November 22, 2016, empowering   to inquire into the issue of   of another country and make recommendations to the central government, the process hasn’t been initiated till date. 

 Sources said that modalities are still being worked out and that applications and objections haven't been invited yet. With no go ahead from the state government, district collectors are waiting for a new government to be formed to deliberate modalities and begin the process, sources said. 
 
 The order empowers the district collectors of North and   to invite applications and objections after due publicity has been made. South Goa collector Swapnil Naik said, “I haven’t taken any action as yet on the order as I received it during election preparation. I shall now take action as required”. 
 
 “The inquiry shall be conducted in a fair and transparent manner, keeping in mind provisions contained in the Citizenship Act 1955 and the Citizenship Rules 2009,” the order states. Following the inquiry, the district collectors will “make recommendations to the central government giving details of each case”.
 
 The order will be in force for two years from the date on which the order was published. 
 
 Commissioner NRI Affairs Goa and senior BJP leader Wilfred Mesquita called the order a “complete eye wash”. 
 
 “The entire process carried out by the central government to sort out the issue has turned out to be an exercise in futility. All meetings between Centre and state it seems were a big waste of time. Since the order also calls for objections, it will lead to more litigation,” Mesquita said. 
 
 He added, “Ideally district collectors should have been given powers to decide cases based on affidavits sworn, with a penalty for those who swear false affidavits”. 
 
 Citizens could have sworn affidavits swearing they are Indian citizens and stating that they got their births registered in Portugal without proper knowledge of facts, provided they have only registered their births in Portugal and have not gone beyond that process, Mesquita said. 
 
 For two years, chronic litigants will not be able to file cases in courts, he added.
 
 
