BHOLATH(KAPURTHALA): The 'robbery-murder' of an old woman in   under   has turned out to be a well-planned killing perpetrated at the instance of her two daughters-in-law. The woman, whose sons were abroad, had found out about the extra-marital affairs of her daughters-in-law and objected to these.

 The daughters-in-law have been arrested along with two youths, one of whom is the paramour of the elder 'bahu' and the other his friend. The sisters-in-law, Rajinder Kaur (31) and Rajdeep Kaur (30), had tried to pass off the killing as a case of murder by robbers. They had claimed that a dozen robbers who struck at their house on February 3, had decamped with their jewellery. They even inflicted themselves with wounds on their forearms to support their tale.
 
  said that Pritpal Singh, the brother of the victim,  , had voiced suspicion before the police about the role of the daughters-in-law as the illicit relations of the elder one had already become an issue in the family. The women spilled the beans when they were questioned by the cops.
 
 Rajinder's husband is settled in UK while Rajdeep's husband had gone to France in 2011 and returned only on Wednesday after the murder.“Rajinder's husband Kanwaljit had called her and their two sons to UK, but she had returned to India after a row. Her mother-in-law had facilitated her stay in their village home. Rajinder got involved with village youth, Anchat, 21, over two years back. Her mother-inlaw had been objecting to her relationship and Anchat's visits to their home,“ the SHO said.
 
 Rajdeep was also having affair with a youth of Jalalpur village until he went abroad a few months back.
 
 According to the SHO, the accused women hatched a conspiracy with Anchat, who in turn roped in his friend Gopi, 22, to eliminate their motherin-law.
 
 “On the fateful night they mixed a sedative in the victim's food and then called the youths, who first strangulated the old woman and then clobbered her with an iron rod.The women then left their safes ajar to make it appear to be the handiwork of robbers,“ he said.
 
 They gave some of their ornaments and an iPhone to the accused youth, which have been recovered from them.
 
