With  ,   and   under its belt,   is now betting big on the Marxist bastion of   in the  . However, four time chief minister of Tripura, 
 , is confident of forming the eighth Left Front government in state in 2018. In an interview to ET, Sarkar said   base in Tripura is intact and people will repose faith on Left Front government again.
 
  
 
  The ground of Left parties in Tripura has been prepared through struggle. People have supported us in the past and will support us in future. I firmly believe this. Despite non co-operation from the Centre, we are doing everything possible for the benefit of the people. Even those things which we are not able to do we are taking it to people. We will definitely do well in the elections.
  
  
 
  This is a phase. BJP is taking advantage of the Congress’s inability. Prior to 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP presented some concrete economic agenda, it made commitments to youth, middle class. BJP did not talk about Hindutva prior to Lok Sabha polls. BJP managed to get 31% of votes in 2014 Lok Sabha polls, which means that 69% of the voters did not vote for them. Currently, there is price rise of essential commodities, farmers are committing suicide, they promised creation of jobs, where are the jobs?
  
  Vacancies in the government sector are not being filled. In some cases, it is replaced by contractual jobs. BJP is encouraging private capital. There is huge loss of jobs in the labour intensive industry. There is a tendency for cheap labour. BJP is anti-poor, anti-youth and pro tax evaders and moneylenders. In comparison to 2014, vote share of BJP has declined in recent elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttrakhand. In Manipur, they could just win 21seats. Those against BJP are termed as anti-national. In Northeast India BJP is rising at the cost of Congress, for us it hardly makes much difference. Earlier, our rival was Congress and now it is BJP. BJP is getting people from Congress, on the other hand people, people from BJP and Congress are also abandoning them and joining us in Tripura.
  
  
 
  With  , how much   came back? Money in circulation was back in system, a certain portion of black money became white by this exercise. People faced so much hardship and it will take at least 10 to 15 months to mint the required new Rs 500 notes.
  
  BJP is claiming 8%   growth. However with unemployment rising, bank credit coming down, capital formation being hard hit and both industry and agrarian sector being hit, how can 8% GDP growth is possible? The method of calculation of GDP is nothing but faulty.
  
  
 
  I will not say so. Though there is no insurgency activity in Tripura, insurgent camps of Tripura outfits are still operating in Bangladesh.
  
  
 
  I have said in the   meeting recently that Northeast India requires 90:10 funding pattern for it is geographically difficult region. 
