As intellectual property (IP) negotiators from India and four countries from EFTA (European Free Trade Association) meet in New Delhi this week to resume talks, health activists and patient groups including Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), Delhi Network of Positive People (DNP+) and Public Eye, have warned that Swiss negotiators are demanding inclusion of harmful intellectual property measures that could adversely impact access to medicines.
EFTA is a trade bloc of four European countries, outside of the European Union, made up of  , Iceland, Norway and  . EFTA-India FTA negotiations began in October 2008 and 15 rounds of negotiations have been held to date. The final round is expected to be held in April.
 
 India, also called pharmacy capital of the world, has been producing low-priced, generic versions of life-saving medicines for millions of patients and its generic manufacturers have also innovated to adapt medicines to the specific needs of resource-poor settings. HIV medicines manufactured in India are not only 90% cheaper, the availability of tailored paediatric and fixed-dose combinations has also revolutionised and expanded treatment to over 17 million people across the developing world.
 
 “India’s law has long annoyed Swiss pharmaceutical corporations, and companies like   and Roche have even tried to overturn safeguards in India’s patent law and block registration of more affordable versions of medicines in the Indian courts,” says Loon Gangte, Delhi Network of Positive People. “Swiss pharmaceutical corporations have so far failed to further their strategies to create new monopolies on medicines, but they have now convinced the Swiss government to take up their fight for pharmaceutical profiteering in the India-EFTA trade agreement.”
 
 The proposed provisions – revealed in a leaked IP chapter of the negotiations – would protect and lengthen evergreening monopoly strategies of Swiss pharmaceutical companies, eroding India’s ability to produce and supply generic medicines, says a statement. The provisions proposed by Swiss negotiators include data exclusivity, a form of monopoly through the regulatory system that prevents marketing of generic formulations, even when patents no longer apply, or exist on the medicine. Companies could employ this technique to block generic competition from India and thus, keep medicine prices high and out of reach of patients in developing countries for longer periods of time.
 
 “We are worried that the harmful provisions the Swiss government is pushing for, which go beyond what’s required under internationally-agreed law, will further create exclusive rights for profiteering and serve to undermine what remains of generic competition from India”, says   head-South Asia, MSF Access Campaign.“We hope commerce minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s commitment to not engage in these excessive ‘TRIPS plus’ measures, will remain firm in the EFTA negotiations.”
 
 Generic manufacturing from India has been under constant attack from powerful pharmaceutical corporations, who receive support from countries like US, Japan and Switzerland, the statement adds. These governments in turn pressure the Indian government in bilateral trade negotiations to raise the bar of intellectual property provisions, in a bid for an increased number and forms of monopolies.
 
