KOLKATA: So what if you’ve never driven a car in real life. Here is your opportunity to take the  . So, fasten your   and get  , all the while experiencing how the complex components of your car — the engine, carburettor and radiator — co-ordinate perfectly to   into your car.

 A state of the art Motive Power gallery at the Birla Institute of Technological Museum (BITM) is gradually coming to life to help you experience internal combustion in a perfectly simulated environment created with the help of multimedia woven into a real-life car so that the visitor on the driver’s seat gets an idea about the transmission, ignition and cooling. The visitor also gets to drive the car (though it doesn’t move an inch but the real life simulation creates that make-believe impact). One can also experience the same with a racing car in the gallery.
 
 The other surprise in the BITM kitty is the  , that will enable even school students to understand and experiment with topics ranging from basic cell biology to modern DNA analysis and genomics. BITM is a component of the National Council for Science Museums (NCSM), a part of the ministry of culture, and is headquartered in the city. Science City is another component. The ministry has granted a first instalment of a little less than Rs 2 crore to BITM to set up these two modern galleries which will be operational by the end of the month.
 
 “The invention and development of the internal combustion engine (IC engine) in the nineteenth century had a profound impact on human life. It was modelled on the muscles of human body. The IC engine offers a small, lightweight source for a large amount of power. In the lab we will try to showcase to students how that power is harnessed in an automobile,” explained director of BITM, Sk Emdadul Islam.
 
 Cars have been rolled into the gallery to give that real life feel when students explore it. A scaled down operating model of a car factory also gives an idea to the visitors about the production line in a plant. The gallery also explores nuclear energy through a pressurized water reactor and various sections of a nuclear power plant.
 
 The biotech lab is a 1400-square feet space equipped with advanced machines like Laminar air flow unit, -20 degrees freezer, PCR machine, gel electrophoresis systems, micropipettes, UV trans-Illuminator, orbital shaker, autoclave, water bath, UV-VIS spectrophotometer among other machines that are available in high-end biotech labs, which are usually kept out of bounds for school students. “We will have no restrictions whatsoever and any student from Class-VI onwards will be allowed to use the lab and conduct experiments,” Islam said.
 
 “It’s a dream come true. We use a lot of multimedia to explain animal and plant biology to our students but our laboratories cannot accommodate such extremely sophisticated and advanced machines,” said Rita Chatterjee, principal of Apeejay Schools.
 
 Mukta Nain, principal of Birla High School, said: “We will definitely send our boys in batches.” 
 
 
