While no one ‘officially’ spoke about Govinda’s ambiguous ouster from Anurag Basu’s film, the talk finally began when the actor posted his clarification on social media, a week before its release. The filmmaker then sounded apologetic about the incident, but there was no closure. It was Rishi Kapoor, who finally took the onus of mentioning the incident in a recent interview and blamed Anurag for his unprofessional behaviour.  , who chose not to escalate the matter beyond a brief social media tweet, did it solely for his love for the Kapoor family. The actor is thankful that   stood by him. Now that the film has released, when asked, he told Bombay Times, “I want to say, ‘Thank you Rishi sir. At last you showed concern. Good blood never speaks wrong’.”
 
  
 
 After a brief pause, he added on an emotional note, “I didn’t react much because I have huge respect for the Kapoor family. Also, I truly feel that it’s the director’s (Anurag) call to do what he wants to do with his film, but a little professionalism is expected. I had no clue what they were up to. They were busy with their own things and I wasn’t even informed about it (his ouster from the film). This, despite me doing the film without even charging for it. I was unwell and on drips, but I still travelled to South Africa for the shoot as I didn’t want people to feel that I am unprofessional or making excuses. After doing all that, what I got in return has made me realise that I need to be more frank from now on. I shouldn’t be sensitive or emotional when it comes to work. I should make changes in myself as this is how the world functions.”
 
  
  
 
 On why he didn’t go to town explaining his take, he said, “If I had said something, it would have been perceived as a complaint. They did what they thought was right and I didn’t want to interfere. I am not here to fight. If Anurag offers me a film again, I might still do it as we all are professionals. But this was petty and I no longer get affected by all this as I have seen this kind of behaviour for a while now. I don’t want to wallow in self-pity, but when you are going through a rough patch, you tend to get used to this. My bungalow is close to ( ) Shetty saab’s in Juhu. So many filmy parties happen there, but no celeb even bothers to say hello to me. Log mujhe dekh kar avoid karte hain. Har kisi ka time hota hai. I am content with the fact that the public still likes me and mobs me wherever I go. That is what I have earned over the years.” 
 
  
  
 Speaking of his love for the Kapoor family, he explained, “I have utmost respect for the Kapoor family, as I can never forget the love that the legendary   saab showered upon me when I was just a newcomer. I can never forget the time when he invited me and my mother to one of his parties and touched my mother’s feet when we entered. He treated us with so much love and respect. He was indifferent to my social status. I lived in a Virar chawl and at that time, I was nobody. I don’t look at individuals when I see the Kapoor family. I look at them as one and I look up to Rishi sir and Raj saab. I respect my seniors. These are the qualities that I have imbibed from my mother and I will always stand by them.”
 
 When asked if he will be more careful when it comes to doing special appearances henceforth, he concluded, “There might not be a second time as I might only do it for the Kapoors or Salman Khan’s family. Not that I don’t think the others are less important, it’s just that these families are special for me and I hold them in high regard.”
 
  
  
 
