GREATER NOIDA: A woman was killed while her husband and nephew were seriously injured after a private bus hit the bike the trio was travelling no near the   1 roundabout on Tuesday.

 The victim Babita and her husband Yogendra, both in their early thirties, were travelling on their bike along with nephew Jeet Kumar alias Golu, who was sitting in the middle. While Yogendra and Golu worked as sanitation workers in Eldeco society while Babita worked as a domestic help in the same society. They hailed from   district.
 
 The   occurred at 7.45 am when the three were entering the main road on their bike after filling petrol from the petrol pump located on one side of the road.
 
 According to the police, a speeding private bus with “Essaar” written on its body hit the bike from behind.
 
 While Babita died on spot, Yogendra and Golu were taken to   in Knowledge Park. Both of them are undergoing treatment here. A spokesperson of the hospital said that Golu is currently in the ICU while Yogendra has suffered injuries.
 
 When news of the accident spread, a group of villagers gathered at the spot and protested against the police and the bus driver.
 
 The protesters jammed the road for about 20 minutes and disrupted traffic by placing the woman’s body on the road. They also used the barricades from the under-construction metro station at Delta 1 Sector to block the road. The barricades are property of the DMRC.
 
 Meanwhile, as the protests grew, the driver of the private bus fled from the spot, the police said.
 
 “Some villagers got violent and broke the windows of the bus. However, they were soon taken under control by the police. We have taken the bus into custody,” a police officer said.
 
 Kasna SHO Sudhir Kumar Tyagi said an FIR has been lodged against the driver of the bus under sections 279 (Rash driving), 304 A (Causing death by negligence), 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50). 
 
 “The speeding bus trampled the bike from the left side, killing the woman on the spot. The body has been sent for postmortem. We are investigating the case,” he said.
 
 
