CHARMINAR: "I have come out of the hell-hole. I am relieved to be back home,"   said on landing at the   in the city from   on Tuesday. 

 What Haseena Begum said on arriving in Hyderabad from Saudi Arabia gives a picture of what exactly kafils (employers) think of housemaids from India.
 
 “They believe that we are ‘kareedi ghulami’ (slaves who are bought). This is the impression they are under because they pay Rs 3.5 lakh to an agent to get a housemaid,” Haseena Begum said. This is also the reason why they are reluctant to pay the housemaid (khadama) salaries when the ‘slave has already been bought’. After taking the money from the kafils, agents recruit women and send them to Saudi where they are left there to suffer at the hands of the kafils.
 
 Haseena Begum from Sanathnagar returned to Hyderabad on Tuesday after having suffered at the hands of a kafil in Damam. “Both the kafil and his wife used to torture me. They used to beat up and starve me. I was pushed from the third floor of a building and for more than 10 hours I was not attended to,” Haseena Begum said. 
 
 She had gone there to work as a housemaid on October 18, 2016. Haseena Begum's son Wajid could not contain his joy when he met his mother for the first time in over six months. "I could not have been happier. I am overjoyed," he told TOI on Tuesday from the airport. 
 
  Tricked into going abroad on the promise of a huge pay, Haseena had landed in Saudi Arabia only to be exploited by her kafil and being subjected to physical and mental torture. 
 
 Haseena Begum is grateful to external affairs minister  ,  , NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao, Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha for taking up her issue with the Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia. “It is because of the pressure they applied that I have been able to come back to India,” she said.
 
 "We had to make several calls to Saudi Arabia and coordinate with a number of people to ensure that she was set free," Begumpet inspector G Jagan said. "We got the illegal agents who sent her to pay up the money to the kafil so that she could return. The case against the illegal agents will continue to be pursued," Jagan said. 
 
 For those who dream of going to Saudi Arabia, Haseena said: “Do not go. Be content here. You can find work and earn money here itself. You experience slavery in its worst form in Saudi Arabia. If the British treated Indians like slaves before independence, what is now happening in Saudi Arabia is even more worse for women going from India or other countries.”
 
 Haseena said she knew of one housemaid from Indonesia who was pushed from the second floor of a house by a kafil. In another instance, one more housemaid was pushed from the second floor of a house. “The torture there is unbearable. Housemaids are beaten, thrashed and hit on the legs,” she explained.
 
 “There is no country like ‘Hindustan’. India is the best country to live in,” she said.
 
  At the airport, Haseena Begum was received by MBT leader Amjedullah Khan who had pursued her case with external affairs minister, Sushma Swaraj. 
 
