Jaisalmer: This time the state government has planned to hold conservation outside the limits of protected areas. Identification of wetlands that are of importance to residents as well as migratory birds outside the sanctuaries and national parks had been completed in 2012-13. The act of conservation has now been initiated. Under the CAMPA funded scheme, a list of 35 lakes and ponds from across the state has been made where maximum migratory birds arrive during winters. The financial allotment for each pond is Rs 3.15 lakh which is for preparation of conservation plan and baseline data. 

 Deputy conservator of forest, Desert National Park (DNP), Anoop K R said that now forest department is all set to take up conservation works in various wetlands of importance. The identified 35 ponds and lakes include Bhaniyana lake in Jaisalmer where maximum birds arrive during winters. Along with making contour digital maps of these lakes and ponds, baseline scientific data will be collected and a census of migratory birds will be undertaken in order to prepare a conservation plan for the lakes.
 
 He said that Bhim lake at Bhaniyana has been included in DNP in the first phase and for this government has allotted Rs 3.15 lakh. 
 
 Although the department does not have experts on bird conservation, services of professional agencies will be taken for which tenders have been invited. Anup said Bhim lake lies outside the DNP area because of which many other processes are being started towards the conservation of birds coming to this lake. Many rare species have started coming here.
 
 It is to be mentioned that in the northern hemisphere, due to heavy snowfall in many areas, birds from central Asian countries move to tropical states to escape harsh weather. Many species of migratory birds arrive in the wetlands of India in thousands. From October to Feburary a huge chunk of these migratory birds camp in Jaisalmer, Phalodi, Barmer along with other areas where there is water. These birds include custard pochard, common pochard, red-headed pochard, common teal, gagreni, malad etc. 
 
 
