MUMBAI/NAGPUR: With the state transport department considering issuing permits for electric taxis in key cities, the need for accessible charging points has become more urgent and power utility firms are turning their attention on the issue.

 Some of them have opened talks with MMRDA and BMC to promote charging facilities in public parking places, said sources.
 
 “We are evaluating the option of setting up electric vehicle (EV) charging points on our premises on a trial basis for our own electric cars. In the long run, such charging points will come up at public places with tariff set by MERC (the state power regulator),“ said a Reliance Energy official.
 
 A power industry observer suggested a public-private partnership model for installing fast-charging points. Some experts said every petrol pump should be asked to install at least one e-charge point. “There can be a separate queue of cars especially for e-charging (just like CNG),“ said transport activist  .
 
 The transport department is pulling out all stops to ensure Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari's pet project of e-taxis can take off in Nagpur by the end of this month to coincide with the anniversary of the Modi government. Rising pollution levels, thanks primarily to increasing private and tourist taxi vehicles, is also pushing policymakers to opt for greener options.
 
 But the situation in Nagpur is far from encouraging. Residents of   on   road are protesting const ruction of a charging centre in their locality. It is meant for the 20 e-taxis proposed to be launched soon. Following complaints, the Nagpur Improvement Trust has issued a notice. Senior BJP corporator  , a local resident, too took objection and has asked officials to look into the matter.
 
 The private aggregator firm that will run the e-taxis has planned over two dozen charging centres in the city and work is on at full swing, said a source. But MSEDCL superintending engineer Manish Wath said it has received only two proposals for charging points -one near the airport and another in the   area. The MSEDCL has asked the aggre gator to install 200 KV transformers for the purpose.
 
 BEST and MSRTC were keen to launch electrichybrid buses soon. BEST has ordered for six electric buses at a cost of Rs10 crore. “This will lead to setting up of charging points across Mumbai region soon, and this could also benefit e-taxis in near future,“ said a BEST official.
 
