GUWAHATI: Refuting the allegations of   that there has been slackness in coordination between the party and Dispur after  ,   said grassroots members are actively being used for taking government's achievements to people. 

 "The government and party are working in tandem. We have a chief minister in   who is always in touch with party members. Even ministers make it a point to visit the party office frequently. There is no iota of truth in the charge that there is lack of coordination between the party and the government," BJP spokesperson Diplu Ranjan Sarma said.
 
 Recently, during an organization meeting of BJP here, many members of the saffron party have levelled charges that grassroots workers were often sidelined by party leaders when it comes to taking government's development schemes to the public. They also said the party and government should work in perfect coordination so that people's trust remains intact.
 
 A member said there was a lot of confusion among grassroots workers on the issue of Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, which seeks to give citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. "We had a hard time explaining the issue to the people as our party came to power with the promise of safeguarding the land and identity of indigenous people. I think this confusion was primarily because of lack of coordination. We work at the grassroots and are in touch with people who have voted our party to power. So, we are the vital link between people and government," a BJP worker said.
 
 Union home minister  , who was present at the meeting, also said workers of the party are the means of communication between the mass and government on people's expectations. "Workers can tell the government what measures needed to be taken so that people's expectations are fulfilled," Singh said.
 
 "Our purpose is not to come to power, but to reform society. Change in power is not the end. We have to meet the commitments made to people," he added.
 
 Senior BJP member Mira Barthakur said keeping the morale of the workers high is vital for the party's prospects. "We have seen that the body language of some of our office-bearers has changed after BJP came to power. This affects the psychology of grassroots workers," added Barthakur. 
 
 
