Panaji: In a bid to boost the information and technology (IT) sector in the state and ensure that IT graduates do not have to leave Goa for the sake of employment, the directorate of technical education along with several IT companies have come together to implement a year-long apprenticeship program. Computer science graduates along with software engineers will now be able to learn from the best in the industry while remaining in Goa. While the Board of Apprenticeship Training (BOAT) has provisions for graduating engineers to be placed in companies for on the job training, this avenue was not explored by the IT sector for a long time. “This issue was discussed with heads of all five engineering colleges and it was strongly felt that industrial training was essential to give students hands on training and practical exposure,” director of technical training Vivek Kamat said. Currently, students get a month long internship which is broken up into two weeks between their last semesters. This, however, did not sit well with both, the industry and the students. Following consultations in May with Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s education council and industry bodies, a decision to try longer internship programmes was taken . “The industry has shown willingness to accommodate graduates for more than six months,” Kamat said. Around 70-75 students have shown interest in applying for apprenticeship while around nine companies have already come forward to take in 23 students.  “It is a good initiative towards making our engineering graduates job ready and we don’t mind helping them this year with this program. But there has to be a serious discussion so that in the long term, the value of the engineering program is not lowered,” said Goa Technology Association managing committee member Milind Anvekar. Among students, concern remains over the apprentice tag, which has dissuaded some students for opting for the apprenticeship program. “For engineering students, this cannot be a long term solution. Such value add programs should be part of the course structure,” Anvekar added. As per the provisions of BOAT, engineering students are eligible for a monthly stipend of Rs 4,984, 50% of which will be reimbursed to the company. According to sources, the central government was expected to increase the monthly stipend per student to approximately Rs 9,500.