NAGPUR: “The subject of relationships remains relevant in every period, only the manner of expression changes with time,” says actor, theatre director, writer Makrand Deshpande in a chat with TOI ahead of staging of his play Sir Sir Sarla in the city on July 16, at Deshpande hall.

 The iconic play that debuted in 2001 featured theatre bigwigs like Rajeev Gupta,  , Sonali Kulkarni and Abhimanyu Singh. In its current form, it will have Deshpande playing Professor Palekar along with   as Sarla and   as Phanidhar.
 
 “Outside the family ties, it is the guru shishya relationship that is most sustainable. The dialogue between the two remains perennial though the words may change,” Deshpande says while adding that this play will remain relevant for the next 50 years.
 
 Discussing the plot, the director says, “The canvas of the play is about love, life and relationships and these can be discussed till infinity.” The story has multi-layers and swings between the past and the present and brings out feelings of regrets and what could have been. “The interpretation has become easier now as today a lot more can be said than was possible 17 years back,” he says about the improvisations in the story. “Today, a lot more confrontation is possible between the characters especially the teacher and his students,” he adds.
 
 The play is perhaps the first professionally rehearsed Hindi play to be staged in the city in a long time. “Though Hindi is our national language Hindi theatre has not been able to make an impact nationally. I have been able to create an audience in Mumbai but may not get the same response in Pune,” he says and adds, “Nagpur has a theatre loving and Hindi speaking audience, so I hope to get a good response here too.”
 
 Not the one to underestimate the potential of Tier 2 cities when it comes to theatre, Deshpande says, “Theatre is not about earning money. Its purpose is to satiate the intellectual hunger of a segment of audience. The logistics of holding these shows in smaller cities are managed by the organizers, but the fact remains that bigger names are required to bring in the audience. I try to be there to create this space,” he adds.
 
 “There is a class among the audience that is eager to watch dramas of high calibre. They have the intellectual capacity to appreciate these plays which are so humanly connected. I am always hopeful through these shows a culture for theatre will grow in smaller towns. At a show in Kanpur, a   developer came on stage to say he had enjoyed it so much that he had decided to sponsor the dramas,” adds Deshpande. 
 
