CHANDIGARH: Hordes of NRIs, who had descended on Punjab to root for their parties in the assembly elections, are not in a hurry to take the flights back even a week after the polls. The reason is that they want to join the victory rallies if their candidates win when the results are out on March 11.

 Even after spending several days in the state, taking part in political rallies and door-to-door campaigning, the NRI brigade's zeal is intact and many of them have planned 'Akhand Paths' in their villages if the party they supported won. When 62-year-old Harpreet Kaur, a homemaker from Canada, set foot in Punjab to canvass for Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) two weeks ago, she vowed to perform an “Akand Path“ in her native village if the party is voted to power on March 11. Fingers crossed, Harpreet Kaur has decided to extend her stay like many other Punjabi NRIs who had come all the way to support the party of their choice.
 
 Joban Randhawa, youth convener of AAP overseas, who is handling the 'Chalo Punjab' campaign, told TOI, “Despite fear of the rival parties picking on the Punjabi NRIs who have come especially for campaign ing, a majority of them want to stay back till the results are announced. Many of them are lying low in their hometowns after they did their best by travelling to various constituencies to support the party.“
 
 Many of the NRI supporters of Congress joined the campaign slightly late but they too plan to leave only after the outcome of what is being termed as a “tricky“ election. Harjit Singh Virdi, an NRI from UK, added, “The campaign has been very hectic and we met people across constituencies to communicate the party's message.“
 
 While 250 NRIs under the aegis of the Indian Overseas Congress, UK, flew down to Punjab on January 20, several others joined came from Canada.
 
 Another AAP supporter,   from Toronto, said many Punjabi NRIs who went back after cam paigning came to a close on Feb ruary 2, will be flying back on March 9 or 10 and many of them have already finalised plans to celebrate and offer gratitude to the almighty in their own ways.
 
 Satnam Singh Kainth, in charge of NRI cell of  , said, “There is a lean period of more than a month be tween the February 4 polling and results and many NRIs are in two minds. Those who can af ford to stay back are definitely keen on being part of the victory celebrations.“ As many as 35,000 NRIs had registered with AAP as part of the `Chalo Punjab' campaign and as per estimates of the par ty, around 18,000-20,000 man aged to make it. In case of Con gress, the AICC had organised visit of NRI supporters with the help from state unit.
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) too had its NRIs supporters campaigning in certain constit uencies in the Doaba region and some of them decided to ex tend their stay beyond Febru ary 2. “Most of the NRIs wield considerable influence in areas like Jalandhar and many of them helped the party in high lighting the developmental works carried out by the SAD BJP alliance in the last ten years,“ said Amardeep Singh, a SAD supporter from Bathinda.
 
