AURANGABAD: The municipal body failed once again in starting up a fish market at the newly built facility in Shahganj since fish sellers continue to refuse to move to the new space. 

  The sellers turmed down the municipal body’s offer to take possession of blocks on the first floor of the market. They were also unwilling accept the municipal commissioner, Om Prakash Bakoria’s, request to even use the space on a trial basis. 
 
 Bashir Ahmed Qureshi, a leading fish sellers in the city and an office-bearer of the fish sellers association told TOI that he and his colleagues were not interested in setting up shops on the first floor of the new market building. “Responding to the municipal chiefs request, we had planned to occupy blocks in the building but we were not aware that the civic body would ask us to open our fish selling counters on the first floor. It is neither feasible for us nor the buyers. And thus we do not wish to occupy these blocks,” he said. 
 
 Qureshi alleged that the municipal authorities have already allotted the prime location blocks to other sellers. The market is meant for fish and thus the prime location shops should be allotted to fish sellers only. 
 
 The dealers, who have been shying away from the new market for more than a year, recently agreed to open their shops on an experimental when Bakoria assured them that the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation will take all possible steps to attract customers. “We will create awareness among the masses and motivate them to the visit the modern facility where different varieties of fish would be available,” Bakoria said. 
 
 For the past three years the civic body is working on the project to organise the fish markets and bring all the sellers under one roof. 
 
 The municipal body developed the market at Shahaganj under the special funding from the central government, . This is a state of the art market with modern facilities like air conditioned storage has been developed over three years with special funding from the National Fisheries Development Board. 
 
 There are 50 counters in the market and a 10,000-litre effluent treatment plant in a mutli-storied building. 
 
