KOCHI: Reports on chemical analysis conducted at the   (RFSL) and central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) at Hyderabad regarding the presence of insecticide in actor Kalabhavan Mani’s blood at the time of his death are contradictory, police have informed the high court. Police’s report said it has ruled out homicide and is considering the possibility of a natural death due to complication from multiple diseases.

 While the report from RFSL said an insecticide named chlorpyrifos was found, CFSL’s report said no poisonous substance was found, the court was told. Details regarding the absence of a pesticide named chlorpyrifos in the test conducted at CFSL was informed to the court through a statement filed by the investigating officer in response to a petition filed by Mani’s brother K R Ramakrishnan. Mani’s brother is seeking a court directive to CBI to take over the investigation.
 
 Police’s statement filed before the high court said, “Toxicological result in Amrita hospital revealed that Mani’s blood, urine, and gastric aspirates contained benzodiazepine (a tranquilizer), ethanol, methanol, cannabinoid, and opioid. Chemical analysis report received from RFSL Ernakulam of viscera contents of Mani contains chlorpyrifos (insecticide), methyl alcohol, and ethyl alcohol. Chemical analysis report received from CFSL Hyderabad of viscera contents and blood taken at Amrita hospital contains methyl alcohol and ethyl alcohol and there is no poisonous substance.”
 
 According to police’s statement, post mortem report too had confirmed the presence of insecticide. Police has quoted the post mortem certificate to have stated, “Death was due to chlorpyrifos and methyl alcohol poison. The pre-existing chronic liver disease (cirrhosis) could have accelerated death.”
 
 There is no history of using chlorpyrifos in the area where Mani’s outhouse is situated or nearby areas and no empty containers of poisons were found on the crime scene despite a detailed search, police said.
 
 Police has also ruled out the possibility of   to be a homicide, suicide, or due to accidental consumption of poison. Regarding the possibility of a natural death, police said an expert opinion is yet to be obtained as to whether a combined effect of the diseases that Mani had could have caused his death. As per the statement, Mani was suffering from diseases such as liver cirrhosis, jaundice, tuberculosis of adrenal gland, kidney dysfunction, and severe type two diabetes mellitus.
 
 
