Mohali: A contractor named in the Punjab irrigation department   failed to secure bail from a trial court here on Tuesday. The   claims Gurinder Singh made heavy cash withdrawals linked to the fraud and amassed illegal assets (wealth and 30 properties) worth Rs 100 crore in Chandigarh, Mohali, Ludhiana, Patiala, and Noida.

 In the financial year 2006-07, the contractor’s annual turnover was only Rs 4.74 crore, which swelled to about Rs 300 crore by the 2016-17 fiscal. “In connivance with officers of the irrigation department, he also compromised with the quality and quantity of the projects’ material,” a bureau spokesman stated. Keeping in view the gravity of the offence and the amount of money siphoned, the additional district and sessions judge of Mohali said the applicant deserved no leniency of bail, as the investigation agency had to find out how he had managed the cash withdrawals and profits, and why he had cleared his bank lockers after the registration of this vigilance case.
 
 The state vigilance bureau has submitted that at the police station of its flying squad-I in Mohali, it has registered a criminal case of cheating and corruption against contractor Gurinder Singh and four senior officers of the irrigation department. A bureau spokesman said the public prosecutor had referred to the investigation into the illegal allotment of multi-crore-rupee irrigation projects to a few favoured contractors.
 
 The investigation suggests that the officers concerned tinkered with the prescribed conditions in the contracts to give some of the bidders an unfair advantage, which accused Gurinder Singh used to rip off the state exchequer. The quotations were called online to eliminate all bidders except Gurinder Singh. In many cases, he was the single bidder, which gave him the liberty to quote excessive and inflated prices.
 
 After the recording of arguments, the district court pronounced that custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary to help police know how the tailor-made conditions had worked to his advantage.
 
 
