HYDERABAD: The alleged administration of expired injections by the staff of Gandhi Hospital in the city on Saturday night is just the tip of the iceberg. Drug expiration or use of drugs post expiry date is a major health nuisance in Hyderabad as in other parts of the country. Experts warn that though most of the expired drugs may not cause any immediate damage to health, but lead to drug resistance in case of antibiotics.

 Unlike in the advanced nations there is no concept of clinical pharmacy in Indian hospitals to keep a tab on prescription of drugs, drug-drug and food-drug reactions, drug abuse and quality of medicines given to in-patients. In the absence of clinical auditing in hospitals unscrupulous health staff rule the roost and blame deaths due to adverse drug reactions on “cardiac failure“ to cover up faults.
 
 According to general physicians and clinical pharma cists, use of drugs post expiry date do not benefit the patient.Instead, such drugs result in the patient developing resistance to them. The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 as amended in 2016 prohibits sale of drugs post the expiry date.The drugs lose their potency while a few drugs disintegrate. Resistance to drugs, particularly if they are antibiotics, is a serious medical challenge the world over.
 
 “Drug efficacy or potency may come down gradually after the expiry date. One cannot guarantee its safety either.In case of medicines like insulin and liquid formulations, the reduction in efficacy is fast, even before the expiry date printed on them,“ said senior consultant physician Dr   of Apollo Hospitals, Hyderguda.
 
 Dr Hari Kishan said no scientific body or doctor would recommend administration of medicines after their expiry . “We need to dispose of expired medicines carefully,“ he said.
 
 The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 defines the date of expiry as the “date up to which the substance may be expected to retain a potency not less than or not to acquire a toxicity greater than that required or permitted by the prescribed test“. This clearly shows that the use of drugs after the expiry date is harmful to patients.
 
 Senior pharmacist M Taher said certain drugs disintegrate on being stored for long. Some may develop bacterial or fungal growth. Instead of curing the patient, such drugs will only aggravate the problem. “Expired drugs should not be used at all. Some drugs expire earlier than the date of expiry printed on them. It all depends on how and where they are stored,“ he said. Many diseases have become drug resistant and the blame mostly goes to overuse or abuse of drugs, particularly antibiotics.
 
