ISLAMABAD: The foreign players of   announced on Wednesday that they would pull out of the final of the   ( ) in Lahore on March 5, citing security reasons.

 Three English players of the Quetta Gladiators -  , Tymal Mills and   - announced via their official Twitter accounts that they will not be participating in the PSL final. The trio took the decision after their team qualified for the summit clash by winning the play-off match against Peshawar Zalmi on Tuesday by just one run in Sharjah.
 
 “It's with a heavy heart I will not be coming to Lahore. I have a young family and for me a game of cricket is just not worth the risk,” Luke Wright said in a tweet. “I'm sorry as I know how much it means to you all and hopefully in the future the safety will not be in doubt to come and play there.”
 
 Saying goodbye to Dubai, Pietersen said in a tweet that he would be returning to his family in London. In a twitter note, Tymal Mills too said that he would not be playing in the final.
 
 “Amazing way to head to the final! One of the reasons we play the game for sure. Unfortunately, I will not be travelling to Lahore for the final but will be watching from home cheering on the boys who I know will fight just as much as they have all tournament. Massive thank you to everybody involved with the Quetta Gladiators and the PSL in general; I have had an awesome time and look forward to seeing everybody again soon!“ 
 
 Officials of the Quetta Gladiators also said that the three English players had informed the team management about their decision to not travel to Lahore for the final. “We had tried to convince them to play the final in Lahore but the recent attacks had cast serious doubts on their minds,” said a PSL official.
 
 The Federation of International Cricketers Associations (FICA) had also advised the players against travelling to Lahore. According to media reports, foreign commentators - including Danny Morrison, Alan Wilkins and Mel Jones - have backed out from covering the final, while  's contract is coming to an end. Reports suggested that PCB is in talks with Waqar Younis, who is in the UAE, to take up the job of commentator.
 
 The recent terror attacks across Pakistan had terrified the masses and forced the military to announce a launch of countrywide military offensives vowing to end the scourge of terrorism. Lahore, the cultural capital of Pakistan where the PSL final will be played on Sunday, witnessed deadly twin bombings this month within a span of 10 days leaving nearly 25 people dead and dozens of others injured. The fate of the eagerly awaited last match of the PSL had been hanging in the balance since the recent terrorist attacks once again highlighted security concerns in Pakistan.
 
