JAIPUR: Diwali may be known as the festival of lights. But  , an auspicious period which marks sun’s northward journey, upstaged the more popular festival on Saturday as a million floating lamps, accompanied by fireworks and music, rose to the city sky after day-long celebrations, highlighted by traditional kite flying.

 As the first rays of the sun brightened the sky, children along with whole families climbed to the rooftop for flying kites. The sky was dotted with kites throughout the day as the weather and winds favoured kite flying enthusiasts.
 
 And after the sun set, firecrackers and floating lanterns brightened the dark sky. The craze of lanterns is catching up in a big way as Jaipurites extended the celebrations well into the night.
 
 “It looks like a mini Diwali as firecrackers and lanterns are now adding more fun to Makar Sankranti. We bought lanterns this year for the first time,” Anita Rathore of Malviya Nagar said.
 
 Earlier in the day, the centre of attraction was Jal Mahal, where the state government had organised a kite festival. Cultural programmes were organised along with kite flying. Large number of foreign tourists also turned up at Jal Mahal for the festival.
 
 Throughout the day, good winds kept kite enthusiasts happy. “The weather was pleasant today. Kite flying in fun in this weather,” Ravi Kumar, a businessman from the   area, said.
 
 City roads saw fewer vehicles compared with regular Saturday traffic. Major markets also remained closed as business folk took a day off and flew kites along with family and friends.
 
 Kite markets, which had witnessed low footfalls over the past few days, saw a sudden spurt in customers. “People started coming in numbers to buy kites on Makar Sankranti eve. We kept our shops open throughout the night,” said Rafiq Ahmed, a kite seller in Handipura market.
 
 In different parts of the city, temporary kite shops cropped up and did brisk business.
 
 Public representatives, government officials and people from every walk of life made full use of the holiday. Health minister Kalicharan Saraf was also seen flying kites along with his relatives and friends.
 
