KOLKATA: A day after two second-year students of the   in   drowned in a pond inside the campus, the father of one of them on Saturday lodged a complaint with the police alleging that his son was murdered. He has also alleged that the boy was a victim of ragging and mental torture.

 While police handed over the dead bodies to the families after post mortem, the complaint, lodged around 7.30 pm, was not turned into an FIR till late night.According to sources, based on the complaint of Prasad Srivastava -the father of Angshuman Srivastava -police are likely to record the statement of two of his friends, including the third boy who survived the accidental fall into the pond. “A case will eventually be registered,“ said Meeraz Khalid, DC (south west division).
 
 On Friday afternoon, two second-year students -Angshuman, 20, and Animesh Raj, 20 -drowned in a pond inside their campus on Friday afternoon. A third friend -Amit Kumar Jha -who accompanied them had also fallen in the pond but survived.
 
 The survivor later told police that the three friends had decided to venture into the garden behind their hostel around 4 pm. They were busy searching for mangoes when they came close to the pond. The trio then decided to try some fishing. It was around 4.45pm when one of them slipped in the moss and fell in. His two friends tried to save him but they too fell into the water. The duo did not know swimming and drowned while the third friend managed to swim back. By the time he looked for help, his friends had drowned.
 
 While Angshu was rushed to the Port Trust Hospital, Animesh was rushed to the CMRI hospital. Both were declared dead on arrival. According to police sources, his father on Saturday complai ned that Angshu was a victim of mental torture by his roommate and the survivor. He had also alleged them of murdering his son. Police has already recorded statement of the survivor and tried to reconstruct the entire incident based on his statement. Cops are also likely to question other students to find out if there had been any incident of ragging in the past. Meanwhile, they have also taken the mobile phones of the accused to check their call records and messages to find the veracity of the allegation.
 
