CHANDIGARH: Adding a twist to the ongoing petition challenging the newly-amended clause of L-1BF licence in Haryana’s excise policy, the petitioner ––   –– on Tuesday claimed before the Punjab and   high court that the firm that had won the bid for being the single manufacturer was a sham company.

 During the resumed hearing of the case before a division bench headed by Chief Justice Shiavax Jal Vazifdar, the counsel for the petitioner association, Vikram Jain, alleged that the respondent firm was a sham company having equity capital of only Rs 1 lakh for the past six years and the director of the firm was an employee in   against which several FIRs in different cases were pending.
 
 Further arguing that it is a perfect case where “corporate veil” had to be lifted, the counsel claimed that he was in possession of the documents, which clearly revealed that the director of the licencee company (Ashir Marketing India Pvt Limited) did not have the capacity to do business of around Rs 62 crore because he was a salaried employee in another company.
 
 National Restaurant Association of India had challenged the amended clause 9.5 of L-1BF licence in the Excise Policy for 2017-18. According to the petitioner, the allotment of L-1BF licence to a sole entity would lead to escalation of prices of premium imported liquor brands as it would only sell the liquor brands in which it got maximum benefit, which would render the petitioners out of business.
 
 Meanwhile, defending one wholesaler for imported foreign liquor ( ) for all of Haryana, the state government on Tuesday told the court that the allegations of monopoly were totally misconceived and baseless.
 
 The affidavit filed by Amrita Singh, additional excise and taxation commissioner of Haryana, informed the court that the draft policy was not prepared in one sitting but culminated after several rounds of discussion among the officers of the department, and after taking past experiences and feedback from the field. She also told in her reply that the state could adopt any mode of selling the licence with a view to maximize its revenue so long as the method was not discriminatory.
 
 “L-1BF licence which allows trading in foreign liquor to only richest strata of society who would not hesitate to visit bars due to money considerations and thus, by and large, customers of the petitioners would not decrease. Business interest of the petitioner would not suffer as the higher price of liquor would be paid by the customers,” the state told the court in its reply.
 
 The private respondent Ashir Marketing India Private Limited through its director Sanjeev Mehta, which was given L-1BF licence by the department, however, sought time to file its reply.
 
 The case would now come up on March 30 for arguments.
 
 
 
 
 L-1BF licence is a wholesale licence for imported foreign liquor (IFL), which authorizes a person to import liquor including beer from other countries and supply it to L-1, L-4, L- 5, L-12Cs and L-12Gs of the state. The new excise policy had made the provision of only one licence holder for wholesale of IFL in the state, thereby creating monopoly.
 
 
