KANYAKUMARI: In a rare sighting, a team of   spotted a group of ground nests of   stilt in the wetlands of  .

 The team, led by environmental educator, S S Davidson, said though the birds are not rare, it was significant as the sighting of the nests was rare. Moreover, it is a ground nesting bird, whose habitat was being destroyed by the land mafia. Kanyakumari district once had 4,500 tanks and now only 1500 and seeing their nests is becoming difficult. “I am seeing a nest in Kanyakumari district after 25 years,” he said.
 
 A globally widespread wading bird, the black-winged stilt (Himantopus himantopus) is characterised by its extremely long, red legs, white stomach and, true to its name, jet-black wings. Its distinctive legs make up around 60% of its overall height, providing the bird with a feeding advantage over other waders in deeper waters. Young birds are distinguished by a dash of dark feathers on the usually white head.
 
 The diet of the black-winged stilt is variable according to season, but typically comprises aquatic insects, snails, crabs, worms, tadpoles, small fish, fish eggs and seeds of aquatic vegetations. “With its long legs, it can wade into deeper water, where it may be seen snatching insects that hover over the water’s surface, dipping its head below the water to catch small fish or pulling small worms from the mud,” he said.
 
 During the breeding season, parental commitment is high from both male and female birds, with males playing a major role in nest building and egg incubation. This parental team appears to be committed, as the male stays behind to tend the nest, the female forages for food. The nest is either a depression in hard ground or arranged on a floating mass of vegetation, preferably situated with all-round visibility.
 
 The black-winged stilt can be found on the shores of large, inland water bodies and estuarine or coastal habitats. Its breeding habitat is typically freshwater or brackish wetlands with a sand, mud or clay bed. It prefers small mudflats or islands in wetland areas.
 
 It builds its nests as a group and raises a hue and cry when anyone interferes or intrudes in its habitat while in breeding. All the birds jointly raise a loud alarm call and attack the intruders. But, they also fall prey to falcons, crows, eagles and street dogs because of their ground nesting nature, Davidson added.
 
