HYDERABAD: ‘Polluted’ Hyderabad can now breathe easy. Hyderabad may not compete with Tokyo on environmental matters, but it is certainly better than Moscow when it comes to soil and water contamination. The Telangana government wants to develop a clean and green Hyderabad on the lines of Tokyo, which it has taken as a model city.

 Till Hyderabad turns greener and cleaner, citizens can take pride at least in the fact that the city’s soil and water is not as highly contaminated as that of Russian capital city Moscow. A joint research by scientists from the   ( ), Hyderabad, and the  , Moscow, reveals that Hyderabad fares better on soil contamination levels.
 
 As part of the Indo-Russian collaborative research project, scientists took up Kukatpally, one of the top 100 pollution hot spots in India, and compared it with that of Maryino, a district in the federal city of Moscow. Incidentally, Maryino too is a pollution hot spot. However, Hyderabad has the least levels of soil contamination. The results were published in the latest issue of the journal,   and Planetary Science.
 
 The team took into consideration both natural (geogenic) and man-made (anthropogenic) contamination of the earth into account to arrive at the results. Nine heavy metals were studied. Of them, Hyderabad fails only on two counts – cobalt and arsenic. Moscow leads in contamination with regard to seven elements - lead, cadmium, copper, zinc, nickel, molybdenum, and chromium. Heavy metals in soil influence the quality of groundwater and may affect the rivers and streams in the vicinity.
 
 “The results prove that at the key site in Hyderabad the elevated concentrations of some chemical elements leading to soil pollution with heavy metals are related to technogenic and industrial activities. It also showed that the area of sewage influence on groundwater is limited and there is no hazard of river water contamination in the long term perspective,” the researchers said. The Indian team comprised K   and AK Krishna while IV Galitskaya, ON Eremina and GI Batrak formed part of the Russian group.
 
 Kukatpally is contaminated by high concentration of poisonous metals like thorium, uranium, zinc, and selenium too. The concentration is high in soils close to industries. Use of pesticides in the catchment is also blamed for the soil contamination.
 
 Also, groundwater samples from Kukatpally has a high alkalinity level (maximum 8.8 on the pH scale). Cadmium contamination ranges from 0.089 micrograms per litre to 4.974 micrograms/litre. Other heavy metals also slightly exceed the permissible level. “The groundwater chemistry is more influenced by industrialisation activities and urbanisation than by the aquifer rock type,” the study pointed out.
 
 
