CHENNAI: The split in the   became official on Thursday when the 
  from the election commission’s ‘free basket’ ahead of the RK Nagar byelection.

 The V K   faction, now called AIADMK (Amma), settled for ‘hat’ as its symbol for the RK Nagar bypoll; the   group that christened itself AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) chose the ‘electric pole’, with its forked arms, appeared to have an uncanny resemblance to ‘two leaves’, the popular symbol of the parent party. The settlement came hours before the deadline for filing nominations.
 
 Sasikala faction candidate T T V Dinakaran wore a hat – and a smile – when he went to file his nomination papers, but OPS and his candidate E Madhusudanan had a hearty laugh as the ‘electric pole’ appeared to have an uncanny resemblance to ‘two leaves,’ the popular symbol of the parent party.
 
 In the last Assembly elections, the AIADMK and its allies contested all the 234 seats under the ‘two leaves’ symbol and won 136 of them. This time, ironically, there will be no ‘two leaves’ symbol in the bypoll. This is not the first time the party is losing its symbol.
 
 The 
  in 1988 after MGR’s death when his widow Janaki Ramachandran fell out with J Jayalalithaa. The Janaki faction went to the polls with ‘two doves’, while the Jayalalithaa group contested on ‘cock’ symbol.
 
 This time, ‘hat’ was not the Sasikala faction’s first choice. Its preferences, as given in the application, were ‘autorickshaw’, ‘bat’ and ‘hat’, going by the order of serial numbers on the list. “When the election panel sought to know if autorickshaw was the first choice, the team pointed to ‘hat’ at the bottom of the list,” a party source said.
 
 The OPS faction chose ‘electric pole’, ‘gas cylinder’ and ‘ring’. “Our first choice was ‘electric pole’ as it looks a bit like ‘two leaves’, and we got it,” said P H Manoj Pandian, a former AIADMK legal secretary. On Wednesday, Pandian argued before the election commission that the OPS faction was the real AIADMK.
 
 The OPS faction submitted documentary evidences – more than 7,000 affidavits from office bearers, former and present elected representatives from across the state endorsing OPS’s leadership and sought the custody of ‘two leaves’. Sasikala faction leader and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai had said his group would go to the court against the EC ruling, but since it fell on the last day of filing of nominations, it had no choice.
 
 Thambidurai said there is no split in the party. “Cadres and people of   need not panic about the symbol being frozen. It is only an interim verdict and we don’t agree with it. We will defreeze two leaves symbol by April,” he said.
 
 
