PUNE: Footage from   that helped establish the identity of a criminal on record Rajesh Ram Papul alias Chor Raja and in the questioning of 35 witnesses in eight days helped the crime branch of the Pune police solve a Rs 35 lakh  .

 Police on Thursday announced the arrest of Rajesh's wife Jyoti Rajesh Pappu (25) from Hadapsar. Rajesh in on the run but his accomplice Ganesh Kathewade (32) from   in Khed was arrested on July 6.
 
 The duo's arrest led to the recovery of cash and ornaments worth Rs 25.26 lakh that was stolen from the flat of an online businessman on July 2.
 
 Rajesh had stolen cash and ornaments worth over Rs 35 lakh from the third floor flat of Suresh Dhoka (26) from Mayurgandh society in   between 1pm and 10pm.
 
 The society has six flats, but there are no security guards or   cameras. A CCTV camera installed some distance away from the society captured images of Rajesh and Ganesh riding pillion on a scooter.
 
 Apolice team under senior inspector Sitaram More (Unit III) visited his old residence in Mangalwar Peth slums, but they learned that the residents had shifted to accommodate a slum rehabilitation scheme. Investigations suffered a jolt as Rajesh's new address was not known. The team comprising assistant commissioner of police Suresh Bhosale and deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Dahane took up the challenge. They interrogated 35 witnesses, including people known to Rajesh like the hawkers and security guards.
 
 Their perseverance paid off after a witness tipped off the police about his current address at MHADA colony in Hadapsar. Police raided his flat, but he was not there. A search led to the recovery of stolen loot worth over Rs 23.98 lakh. His wife Jyoti was arrested after she failed to explain how she had the booty at home.
 
 Police had earlier arrested Ganesh and recovered Rs 1.28 lakh in cash from his residence. Police teams are looking out for Rajesh.
 
 A magisterial court on Wednesday extended his police custody till June 15. Jyoti was remanded in magisterial custody.
 
