JAIPUR: The delay in signing a revised MoU in April this with   and announcing plans to lay the foundation stone for the refinery in September just one year before the state assembly elections may have seeded substantial scepticism about the prospects of the project, but the government seems to be cracking the whip to expedite the project implementation.

 Senior officials in the petroleum department said planning and execution of the project is monitored regularly at the Centre, state and district levels.
 
 “It's a huge project and requires lot of approvals and clearances. HPCL has recently applied for environment clearance at the Centre.All these procedural approvals are being fast-tracked. On June 15, we had a task force meeting under the chairmanship of chief secretary where all the relevant government departments participated. We are setting clear-cut time-bound targets for the works to be done,“ a top official in the department said.
 
 When asked why the people in Pachpadra still do not believe in the project, he said there is nothing on the ground now to convince. But that situation will change very fast in the coming months.
 
 “This month,   will sign the land lease deed agreement with HPCL. That will be the launch pad for all the activities required for the construction of the project,“ he said preferring anonymity .
 
 The government has already announced that work on approach road, water pipeline and electricity connection to the refinery site will be started in three months and after that the construction of the refinery will begin.
 
 With regard to the financial feasibility of the project, he said that the financial commitments will not be a burden on the state. “Some people tend to doubt the ability of the government to mobilise Rs 1,123 crore for the VGF (viability gap funding). Actually, it will not be big burden now as it has come down from Rs 3700 crore as per the earlier MoU. VGF will be paid when the plant becomes operational. That means the government will have the cushion of receiving tax from the project. Since petroleum products are not included in the GST, the direct tax accrual on the sale of petrol, diesel and kerosene will be around Rs 400 crore. Besides, there would be many by-products like petcoke, lubricant oil, etc that will generate additional tax revenues of about Rs 700 crore. We don't see any issues with regard to fulfilling our financial commitments,“ he added.
 
 The by-products will be also used for making PVC pipes, plastics, cosmetics, and paints which will generate more tax for the government.
 
 For a 26% stake in the Rs 43,129 crore refinery, the state government's equity obligations come to around Rs 3,800 crore. The official said that land as part of the equity will contribute about Rs 200-250 crore and the rest will be tied up from other sources.
 
 In recent weeks, HPCL officials have started visited the refinery site to plan for developing necessary basic infrastructure to start work.
 
