NEW DELHI: A day after Congress Goa MLA 
  , another party leader, Savio Rodrigues, also resigned, saying he "can't accept Rahul Gandhi as my leader," Times Now reported today.

 "The Congress vice president (Rahul) is not taking responsibility, Digvijaya (Singh) is responsible for the loss," Rodrigues reportedly said. He was referring to the Goa Assembly floor test yesterday, during which the Congress was unable to get the requisite support to form the government, despite winning the most seats in the state election.
 
  Interestingly, Goa's BJP chief minister   also said Digvijaya was responsible for the Congress losing the trust vote. He implied the loss was because Digvijaya arrived in the coastal state days before the floor test "just to enjoy, not to work",
 
 Vishwajit Rane resigned from the Congress yesterday saying he too is upset with the party's central leadership. He quit hours after taking the oath as a legislator. 
 
 "This is the first step of rebellion against the mismanagement of the party. I don't have any intention to stay with this party. I am disillusioned with them (Congress). I will contest the elections again," Rane said yesterday.
 
 The Valpoi MLA had also written a letter to Congress vice president Rahul listing his grievances against what he said was the party's indecisive functioning two days before the floor test.
 
 Rane was absent during the trust vote in the Goa Assembly yesterday. Digvijaya said he had signed the whip to vote in favour of the Congress, before the trust vote.
 
 "Yesterday at 10 am he signed on the whip, and at 12 pm he was absent during floor test," Digvijaya said about Rane.
 
 Today, the senior Congress leader reiterated that the Goa governor was wrong in acceding to the BJP's stake to form the government in Goa, despite the Congress winning the most seats in the poll.
 
 "Going to raise in Parliament and petition to the President on conduct of Governor, Goa," he tweeted.
 
 
  
  
 
 The BJP-led combine won the Goa trust vote yesterday with 22 of 40 votes in its favour. The BJP was supported by the  , the   (GFP) and three Independents.
 
 Digvijaya tweeted today saying an alliance with the GFP would have helped the Congress win.
 
 
 
  
 
 
