Bengaluru: The erstwhile Mysuru royal family, which is set to part with a portion of the Palace Grounds land for widening of Ballari Road, will be the first beneficiaries of the revised Transferable Development Rights (TDR) scheme. The revised scheme is set to benefit land losers and create a demand for TDRs, as the value of development rights has been increased to twice the total area to be acquired, from the existing 1.5 times. A senior official from BBMP’s revenue division said that members of the royal family have been asked to give up about 10 acres of land to widen Ballari Road, and as per the old rules, they would have got TDR certificates worth Rs 1,800 crore. “Under the new TDR rules notified in March this year, the TDR certificate value translates to about Rs 2,400 crore, as the land owners shall receive twice the area of land surrendered, in lieu of monetary compensation as development rights (notional land), and one time the building area surrendered, as estimated by the value of the building area surrendered, divided by the market value of the land on which the building is constructed. The notional land can be utilized by factorizing it with the market value at the originating plot and receiving plot. The notional land is eligible for FAR and used as additional built-up area at the receiving plot, as per terms and conditions prescribed in the rules,” he added. In its earlier form, the TDR scheme drew flak from property owners in the city as it resulted in huge losses for individual owners whose properties were acquired by the government. The scheme benefited builders who made the most of TDRs by misusing provisions of the scheme. There were many cases of builders buying TDRs at cheap prices in the outer zones of the city (where guidance value is low) and use them to build more floors in prime localities in the core city. The revised scheme also gives property owners an option of monetary compensation, which will be fixed as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act). MK Gunashekar, chairman, standing committee on finance and taxation, BBMP, said the new TDR scheme is “attractive” and will boost the TDR market in the coming days. “From the civic body’s point of view, we hope it reduces the hassles of acquiring land for infrastructure and other development projects,” he added. Urban planner AS Kodandapani, however, is skeptical about how far the revised rules would help. “Not all property owners whose properties are set to be acquired for a project are interested in TDR. So for them, if the cash-strapped civic body fails to provide adequate compensation, the project gets stuck as is happening now. Also, allowing more floors (additional Floor Area Ratio – FAR) through TDR will lead to more congestion in the city centre,” he added. Dhananjay K, another urban expert, said that relaxation of FAR through TDR should be allowed only in outer areas of the city, where there is scope for growth.