BHOPAL: In yet another case of caste bias in the backward region of Bundelkhand in Madhya Pradesh, students of a government primary school have refused to take mid-day meals prepared by scheduled caste women in Tikamgarh district.

 Of the 89 students the government primary school, only 10 take the lunch. School principal Ramgopal Gupta says he has already reported the matter with the district administration. Caste tension is brewing in   village, about 19 km from Tikamgarh district headquarter, for the past one year. A small village with a population of about 10,000, it has a sizeable population of Vanshakar community, members of which deal in bamboo products. The self-help group of the community was awarded the contract for preparing mid-day meals in the village about a year back.
 
 Incidentally, besides students from upper caste community, the food prepared by the SC women is not even being touched by other students who belong to scheduled caste community, said Gupta. “I have reported the matter to the   and also the officials of the education department,” he told the local media. “The problem of the students is that the food is being prepared at the home of Vanshkar community members and not at the school. I have tried to persuade them, but to no avail,” he said.
 
 Students said their parents have “stopped” them from eating the food. Consequently, at any given day only 8 to 10 students who belong to Vanshkar community eat lunch. The remaining students are not benefitted from the government scheme, the principal said. Arti Ahirwar, a student of class V who belongs to scheduled caste category, said, “My mother has asked me not to take  . I bring my own lunch box.” Suhani Gupta, another primary student, echoed similar sentiments.
 
 District collector Priyanka Das said she would get the matter investigated. In March last year, the district administration in Damoh had cancelled the contract of a self-help group in view of allegations of serving chapattis to Dalit students by throwing them in their plates. The incident had taken place in Khamaria Kalan village of Tendukheda tehsil.
 
 
