TIRUVANNAMALAI: The mystery continues over deaths in a family of   in   district, where seven people have died, of seemingly unknown causes, in the last eight months. The latest, Anthony Vimalraj’s four-year-old son Prem Saran, died on Monday afternoon at Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College and Hospital.

 Collector Prashant M Wadnere said the boy had been admitted to hospital with fever three days ago. “His condition deteriorated suddenly on Monday morning and he started throwing up. He died around 3pm,” said the collector. Ruling out dengue as the cause of death, the collector quoted doctors as saying that Saran might have been suffering from acute diarrhoea and that were awaiting the postmortem report.
 
 The district administration has sent a medical team to the village to conduct door-to-door verification of seasonal flu or any other health issues. “There is not a single case of fever reported in the village. Saran’s death comes after a gap of eight months after the last member of Vimalraj’s family died,” said the collector.
 
 The state health department does not seem to have any answers to the series of deaths that began when A Christopher, 13, died on October 7, 2016. The same month, fiver others in the family — Vinod Kumar, 23, Nelson, 11, Krithika Merlin, 7, and Nelson’s grandfather Joseph, 70, and Merlin’s 65-year-old grandmother Christa — died. All of them vomited and complained of stomach ache hours before their death. Christa, who died on October 31, was Saran’s grandmother. Merlin was his sister.
 
 Citing the postmortem report of Christa, collector Wadnere had stated then that it was a case of “poisoning”. “Yellow phosphorous (rat poison) was found in the liver, kidney and blood samples of Christha,” said the collector, citing the final report of toxicology and histopathology. After the deaths in October, neighbours and friends distanced themselves from Vimalraj’s family believing it was cursed.
 
 The case was handed over to the police department for further investigation which, however, hit a roadblock for want of evidence.
 
 Police put the case on back burner stating lack of cooperation from family members of the victims. “Postmortem was done only for Christa, while the other bodies were buried by the family members. This made the case very challenging as we could not find sufficient evidence,” said a police officer privy to the investigation.
 
 After the demise of Christa, Vincent Prabhakar, who was admitted to the hospital with similar symptoms, recovered. “Prabhakar was admitted to the Government Rajiv Gandhi   in Chennai a couple of days after the death of his grandmother Christa. No trace of poison (yellow phosphorous) was found in the fluid samples that were taken from Prabakar. He was kept under medical observation for at least 45 days,” said an official in the health department.
 
 A team of health department officials sent an hourly update of   condition to senior health department officials and health minister during the period.
 
