BENGALURU: The chaotic   bus terminus, the derelict playground next to it and the unkempt surroundings of Russel Market and   nearby will soon get a facelift under the Smart City project.

 Development of the Shivajinagar bus station and Russel Market is one of the seven area-based development (ABD) projects proposed in the application made by BBMP to get Bengaluru into the Smart City list announced on June 23. The plan is to integrate mobility towards creating a vibrant destination.
 
 The ABD project for the locality will include expanding the usage of space in the existing BMTC bus terminal building, dismantling the building adjacent to it and revitalizing the playground that has shops lined up on the side facing the Meenakshi Koil Street. The project also plans to integrate the upcoming underground Shivajinagar   station with the bus station.
 
 There will be multi-directional foot overbridges linking the Metro, Russel Market, Bowring Hospital and the parking facility atop BMTC’s traffic and transit management centre (TTMC) with one another. 
 
 The revitalization plan is estimated to cost Rs140 crore and will have many civic agencies — BBMP, BMTC,  , city traffic police, Bescom and BWSSB — working together. The Jana Urban Space Foundation (USP) has prepared the smart city application and designed the ABD projects which have 10 interventions, out of which Shivajinagar bus station and Russel Market is one.
 
 “Initially, the BBMP wanted me to revitalize the playground next to the bus station but when we started working on the architecture, we found that the bus station and the shops have a major role to play. The dilapidated building can be put to use and we can open up the entry to the playground by making this whole area walkable. The commercial setups on the footpath will be moved to the upper floors of the building so that the playground becomes a vibrant public space. We will also break the wall between the dilapidated building and the TTMC. This will help add one more bus bays to the terminal and enable BMTC to add charging infrastructure for its electric buses in future,” explained Swati Ramanathan, chairperson of Jana USP.
 
 The total area to be restructured is over 7,000sqm and the project will only increase 50% of the floor area in all these buildings. 
 
 The BMRC is expected to take anywhere between 24 and 30 months to construct the station. “We will restore the playground after the construction of the Metro station. Typically, an underground Metro station is about 225m long and 40m wide. On the surface, we will only need space for entry/exits to the station, which is estimated at about 300sqm. We are also acquiring some space for the same on the other side of the Meenakshi Koil Street,” said Channappa Goudar, special officer, land acquisition and rehabilitation, BMRC.
 
 However, the retrofitting of Russel Market is likely to be done by another project management consultant/agency.
 
