HYDERABAD: Three youngsters rescued a minor girl from a sexual predator at Jeedimetla on Tuesday evening. They overpowered the culprit and later handed him over to police. The victim is a nine-year old class 4 student of a private school at Jagadgirigutta.

 At 4.30 pm, Nikhil, Mujeeb and Narasimha, teenagers from Shapurnagar, were strolling by Lal Sab Gutta hillock in Jeedimetla and noticed a school bag in roadside bushes. The teenagers became curious and walked into the bushes to see if someone had left it there. “The three youngsters found Satish, 30, a carpenter from Maqdoom Nagar at Jagadgirigutta, trying to force himself upon the girl.The trio raised an alarm, pinned down Satish and alerted us,“ Jeedimetla inspector C Shankar Reddy said.
 
 The youngsters also asked the girl for her father's mobile number and informed him about the incident. On interrogation, Satish confessed to have lured the girl to hop on to his bike while she was walking towards home after getting down from the school van at Jagadgirigutta.
 
 “Satish saw the girl walking alone in a lane and offered to drop her at home,“ the inspector said. As soon as the girl got on to the bike, Satish started riding towards an isolated area. When the victim raised doubts about Satish taking her in the wrong direction, he gave her vague responses and took her to Lal Sab Gutta.
 
 Police have registered a case against Satish under sections 376511(attempt to rape), 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the POCSO Act. “The three youngsters have done a commendable work. We will appreciate them in a suitable manner,“ the inspector added.
 
 
 
 
 Hyderabad: The LB Nagar police on Tuesday arrested a 50-year-old watchman for allegedly raping a minor girl at Hastinapuram earlier this month. LB Nagar inspector P Kasi Reddy said the culprit B Nahak, a native of Odisha, was employed to guard an open plot at Hastinapuram.
 
 “The victim, whose family hails from  , stays with her parents in the neighbourhood. On January 1 morning, he lured the girl into his hut and sexually abused her,“ he said.
 
