THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Want designer   in handloom, dyed with ayurvedic   and  ? Head to   here and be ready to shell out Rs 3.5 lakh for a single piece. 

 The gowns crafted by handloom specialists of this small town with a rich heritage of weaving are commissioned by fashion designers in the US and Italy. Despite the huge demand for value added products abroad, Kerala’s traditional   is struggling for survival. 
 
 Though the state had set aside Rs 300 crore for handloom promotion with a proposal for procuring school uniforms made of handloom, many people claiming as weavers are scheming to supply uniforms with China-made cheap cloth at Rs 10 per meter, according to the Kerala Handloom Protection Forum (KHPF).
 
 “The state had planned to provide two pairs of uniforms to school students free of cost. For that, 6.5 crore meter cloth will be required and it will provide jobs to 2.5 lakh weavers for a year. It will also help re-open the 26 defunct spinning mills and ensure jobs for another 25,000. It will also ensure functioning of 600 dyeing units and offer permanent jobs for 1,000 members and job security to over a lakh members in stitching the uniforms,” said KHPF member K Satheesh Kumar. With only few days to go for the new academic years, quacks are set to supply uniforms from Chinese made cloth. 
 
 A proposal to promote ayurvedic handloom products under the brand Ayurvastra submitted by the KHPF is still awaiting state government nod. The forum, three years ago, had also submitted a proposal to the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an ayurveda handloom village. The pilot project with an estimate of Rs 17 crore is yet to see the light of day. To realise such a village, 20 more spinning mills need to be set up with dyeing units. There should also be increased cultivation of organic cotton yarn and medicinal herbs said K Satheesh Kumar, expert member, KGPF.
 
 Around 20 lakh families spread across Kasaragod, Kannur, Thrissur, Kollam, Palakkad and Thiruvanthapuram are dependent on handloom sector for livelihood. Many handloom spinning mills are defunct and the weavers have left due to low wages and bad working conditions. 
 
 “Ayurvedic yoga mats are in demand in the US and Ayurvastra is sought after by the fashion designers from Italy, France, Germany and Japan. We have received Rs 100 crore worth dyeing work orders,” he said. Now a museum for display of ayurvedic handloom is being constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore with proceeds from KHPF. This will be the first of its kind in the world. But the government support is lacking,” he said.
 
 The Ayurvastra is organic cotton fabric dyed in natural herbs developed by traditional weavers at Balaramapuram-based Handloom Weavers' Development Society with help from ayurveda physicians. The initiative was launched by state handloom directorate a decade ago. Ayurvastra can be used for treatment for paralysis, rheumatism, hypertension, diabetes, psoriasis etc. This medicinal clothing is used as bed linens, mattresses, carpets, floors with satin, linen and silk textiles, said Dr KG Rajan, an ayurvedic physician.
 
