HYDERABAD: Hyderabad has emerged as a   for  , according to a recent study by a city-based NGO. A paper by   has identified alarming trends concerning the exploitation and forcing of girls into   and  

 “Hyderabad is a transit place, while the source areas are the smaller towns and rural areas of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,“ stated the research team, which conducted operations across the two Telugu states. “This is mainly because of high connectivity and good quality of highways, roads, trains and other modes of transport,“ they added. 
 
 Police sources told TOI that girls are brought from different parts of the country to Hyderabad and then trafficked. “The city is mostly a transit for coastal areas in Andhra Pradesh,“ said Mahesh Bhagwat, commissioner of Rachakonda Commissionerate, which has tackled the highest number of human trafficking cases in Hyderabad last year.
 
 “Girls are brought to the city, kept here for a few days, and then trafficked to cities like Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Goa and Chennai. It's also a transit point for girls getting trafficked to foreign destinations like Singapore, Malaysia, and the Gulf.“ While the city has very few commercial sex workers, the industry, say experts, is underground and spread across different areas.
 
 “The business is camouflaged,“ says David Raj, on   special assignment to the government of Telangana for children's welfare. “With the development of the city , traffickers have become more professional. While there are no brothels in the city, the trafficking runs in apartments and lodges."
 
 Bhagwat agrees. He said that during the last six months itself, 25 apartments and lodges in Rachakonda limits were sealed by police for involvement in trafficking or trafficking-related activities.“Apart from trafficking activities in apartments, online sex rackets, escort services from other countries, Mutha marriages (elderly people exploiting young girls into marriage) are also prevalent in the city,“ said Bhagwat.
 
