BHOPAL:  's state-wide publicity campaign ‘Modi fest' to mark three years of Narendra Modi government at the Centre, will be launched in all 56 organisational districts from May 26. The campaign name has been linked with the surname of the Prime Minister- 'Making of Developed India (MODI).

 On the inaugural day, chief minister Shirvaj Singh   will deliver a live message ‘Janta Ke Naam Sandesh’ at 7 pm in all the municipal head offices to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi led NDA alliance's three year rule.
 
 A series of events have also been organised during the celebrations which will run till June 15. In a similar programme, the chief minster will also address members of 23,040 village panchayats on May 31. 
 
 “The state-wide celebrations of ‘Modi fest’ have been planned in coordination with the party's central headquarters. During the 21-day festival Union ministers, BJP national and state office-bearers, MPs, ministers, MLAs, office-bearers of boards and corporations and intellectuals will attend various programmes to publicise the achievement of NDA's three-year rule'', said BJP state vice-president Ajay Pratap Singh.
 
 He said programmes based on the achievements of NDA government will also be held in all municipal bodies at 6 pm on the opening day. The party has organised two major events in all 29 Lok Sabha constituencies and urged the in-charge ministers to spearhead the publicity campaign, he added.
 
 “There will be farmer and women centric programmes. Conferences for youth, SCs, STs and beneficiaries of various welfare schemes will also be held to apprise them about government achievements. This would be followed by social harmony feast in all district headquarters,” Singh said.
 
 The party will also organise intellectual meets, cleanliness drive and family gatherings to attract voters. Party's youth wing has announced to organise quiz shows in all 56 organisational districts, he said.
 
 The state BJP has invited central leaders and Union ministers in the massive exercise to ensure that PM's message of growth and development reaches every district of the state. Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu will participate in a series of programmes in Bhopal and Ujjain on June 9. Similarly, union minister for social justice and empowerment, Thawar Chand Gahlot will reach Rajgarh on June 1 and Vidisha on June 3.
 
 Union minister of state (MoS) for rural development and Ganga rejuvenation Sanjeev Balyan and MoS for skill development and entrepreneurship (Independent Charge), Rajiv Pratap Rudy will also participate in local programmes. Senior party leaders Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Jyoti Dhurve, MP Anurag Thakur will also attend the publicity campaign.
 
 Singh said that important events organised under the campaign in all major cities would make the common people and the youth aware about the various path-breaking schemes launched by the Modi government.
 
