NEW DELHI: The vigil of   reached a milestone on Friday, this time one that filled them with a feeling of fulfilment. Having trudged to the court twice every week for five years, the Supreme Court’s confirmation of the death sentence for the men who raped and murdered their daughter was a triumph of sorts. As the mother of the girl, who would have been 28 in five days, said, “When the judge read out the verdict, I realised there is always hope for people like us if we keep up the struggle. It is a victory for all those who stood their ground even when lathis rained on them.”

 Since that horrific December night in 2012, Badri Singh and Asha Devi have tortured themselves with what might have been. “There are times when I wonder how different our lives could have been had she not boarded the bus that night — had she not gone for the movie or got late at work or she or her friend had called off the day’s plan,” Devi told TOI a few hours before the court verdict.
 
 And while he was quietly contented with the court’s decision, Singh went beyond his personal tragedy when he addressed the media in the evening. “Things have to change. Nobody listens to us, but the youth look up to the politicians and listen to them. These leaders can easily change people’s perspective if they want to,” said Singh.
 
 Because mindsets remain yet unchanged, both the   rued that women are still unsafe despite the mass outrage over their daughter’s fate. “This was a fight for all of us to create a safe environment for girls,” said Devi. That is why they were deeply disappointed that the   accused in the case had been let off  . “We sat on a dharna, carried out an agitation and even filed a plea in the court because we think that anyone who commits such a crime cannot be a minor,” said Singh.
 
 Rohit Goyal, general secretary of the   Jyoti Trust, saw the family go to pieces trying to cope with the trauma. 
 
 “I remember how close knit they were. After she died, they isolated themselves. They would all be at home, but nobody knew what the other person was doing,” said Goyal. Friday’s verdict, he added, would improve the domestic situation for them.
 
 Relating one aspect in how life has changed, Nirbhaya’s younger brother, an MBBS student, choked as he said that he no longer gets to eat the special breakfast that his sister always prepared for him on days he had exams.
 
 Now with the constant engagements over the legal case coming to an end, the parents will probably hope to remain busy with the activities of the Nirbhaya Jyoti Trust. Devi said that the organisation will assist all women victims through legal and other means. “We will ideate on how to prevent such crimes in the future,” she said. Having described the December 2012 incident as a “challenge to the system and a blot on society”, they are keen to do their bit to change things.
 
 
