AURANGABAD: Shiv Sena chief   and key party officials skipped the   of  's son Santosh on Thursday , further highlighting the strained relationship between the two coalition partners at both the Centre and the state.

 Sena ministers in the Devendra Fadnavis government, including Aurangabad guardian minister Ramdas Kadam, most party MPs and MLAs also chose to skip the event. Only two party officials from the area attended the marriage of Santosh, who is an MLA from Bhokardan.
 
 The entire Maharashtra cabinet, led by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, arrived for the mega marriage ceremony of Bhokardan MLA Santosh Danve, son of state BJP president Raosaheb Danve. The bride is the daughter of well-known musiciancomposer Rajesh Sarkate.
 
 The 30,000 guests for the ceremony ranged from an unprecedented number of VVIPs to bureaucrats and commoners from Aurangabad and Jalna. Among the politicians who turned up were two Shiv Sena ministers of state, opposition leaders and MLAs cutting across party lines. A structure resembling a huge medieval palace was set up on the sprawling Jabinda Estate on the outskirts of the city , where the marriage was conducted. The entrance to the estate was brightly lit with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling while a red carpet rolled from here to the stage where the couple was seated.
 
 Last week, on the eve of vote counting, the state BJP chief had gone to invite Thackeray at his residence, Matoshree, in Mumbai, triggering speculation about a possible patch-up between the two warring parties.
 
 A Sena official told TOI that following Danve's personal visit to Matoshree, the BJP was expecting the Sena to restore the alliance in the post-election scenario, as the Mumbai mayoral poll is scheduled for March 8.
 
 A Sena member said the absence of Thackeray and other prominent ministers from the wedding was indicative of the level of strained relations between the two parties. Several Union ministers, almost the entire state cabinet, the leader of the opposition, MLAs and bureaucrats turned up for the lavish function at the sprawling Jabinda Estate on the outskirts of the city.
 
 Sena MP  , who was among the only two party officials from the region to attend the function, said, “It's true that Uddhav saheb and other prominent ministers in the state cabinet have not come.“
 
