BENGALURU: Eleven-year-old Darshan stepped into a   to quench his thirst, but he slipped and fell into it. His elder brother Naveen, 15, and their father Sakshappa, 45, jumped in to rescue him, but they too got pulled in. 

 This triple tragedy that occurred seven months ago in Tumakuru's Sira taluk put the spotlight on safety aspects pertaining to farm ponds -- a drought-proofing concept popularized by the   under its flagship   scheme. The government's suggestion to fence farm ponds across the state has not yet been heeded. 
 
 Despite police threatening to register cases if ponds are not fenced, not many farmers have swung into action. The result: The number of farm pond deaths has touched 59 in the state. 
 
  The government has now hit upon a new plan to prevent ponds turning into death traps -- extending subsidy for fencing. An order to this effect was passed last fortnight by the agriculture department and it envisages providing 50% subsidy to all category of farmers for construction of shade nets around ponds. 
 
 "Farm ponds are basically designed to harvest and store water, it's not meant for swimming. The polythene lining that prevents water from percolating becomes slippery over a period of time and venturing on such watery surface is dangerous. A majority of the deaths have happened when people have ventured for a swim in these ponds," an official of the agriculture department said. 
 
 The highest number of farm pond deaths have been reported from Tumakuru (16), Kolar (12) and Bengaluru Rural (9). In Anekal near Bengaluru, four wild pigs were found dead in farm ponds. "We hope more farm ponds will be fenced and protected as the government will share 50% of the cost involved," the official said.
 
 In fact, the government has already been providing subsidy to farmers under the Krishi Bhagya scheme for construction of ponds, polythene lining, diesel pumpset, micro irrigation set and for crop demonstration.
 
 All the components pertaining to farm ponds, with sizes varying from 10x10 ft to 30x30 ft, add up to around Rs 1.75 lakh. The government gives 90% subsidy to farmers from scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and 80%subsidy to other farmers
 
 Agriculture minister C Krishna Byrego wda said: "We had been telling farmers that it's their responsibility to put protective measures in place. But most of them were not forthcoming citing costs." Though there are over 1 lakh farm ponds across the state, only 1,077 farmers had volunteered to secure their ponds - while 632 ponds were fenced, 445 were covered with shade nets. 
 
