NAGPUR: Every year there has been a constant decline in the government’s contribution towards the society and its health concerns, Dr Vedprakash Mishra, who headed the committee on   in 2009 and is currently the chairman of the academic committee of the Medical Council of India said on Saturday. 

 Dr Mishra was addressing at the eighth national conference ‘VAPICON-17’, organized by the   (Vidarbha Chapter), held at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. Apart from Dr Mishra, association President Dr  , association secretary Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, scientific committee chairman Dr Nikhil Balankhe, organizing Chairman Dr  , organizing secretary Dr Vivek Bhalerao were also present on the dais. The association also announced its new official website which can be soon accessed at vapi.in.net.
 
 Dr Mishra said, “The government contributed 6.3% of the total expenditure to societal health in the year 2013-14. It went down to 6.3% in the year 2014-15, while it further went down to 3.2% in the expenditure marked for the year 2015-16.”
 
 Mishra further went on to say that India stands at 142nd position when it comes to GDP, while it stands first in the entire world when it comes to ‘Out of pocket expense’ (expenses for medical care that aren't reimbursed by insurance). But even in that condition, a major share of expense is being channelled to the private sector as against public sector.
 
 Mishra also gave statistics to prove the same. He said, “In the year 2013, the ‘out of pocket’ expenses spent on public and private sector were in ratio of 42:58. The expenses in public sector further declined by 3-4 % in 2014, while as of now, nearly 70% is private whereas 30% is public.”
 
 He said, “In the last three consecutive years, our country’s GDP accounted for 4.2, 4.6 and 4.8, while the highest   (US) have reached is 74.6. India is 1/4th of GDP of US, while US is 1/4th of the population of India.”
 
 Concluding his addressal, Mishra said, “I am putting these statistics of macroeconomics, because I believe as a practising doctor, this reality has to be kept at the back of your mind. ”
 
