LUDHIANA: From the next   of 2017-18, private unaided schools cannot increase their fee more than 8%.Moreover schools will have to justify the hiked fee and if a school increases fee more than the limit, parents can complain to a fee regulatory committee formed by state government on the divisional level, which has also been given the power of charging fine from school for violation.

 In the view of regular protests of parents against the private unaided schools for unjustified fee hike and commercial activities, the Cabinet has passed the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Bill, 2016 in December.
 
 Under this, a new regulatory body for regulating fee of unaided   will comprise divisional commissioner, circle education officer, district education officer (secondary), district education officer (elementary), two educationists nominated by government, one educationists nominated by divisional commissioner.
 
 Key powers of the committee includes playing watchdog over schools, regularize unjustified fee hikes by them or charge fine for violation and ask respective boards to cancel affiliation of defaulter schools.Any parent or student can file a complaint with a regulatory body with a self-attested affidavit and committee shall scrutinize it within 15 days and would redress it within 60 days.
 
 Meanwhile, parents are pleased with the fee regulation Act introduced by Punjab Government and are hopeful that they would not have to come on roads for protest.
 
 It may be recalled here that during the beginning of 2016-17 academic session, parents of different schools had held a massive agitation for a long time against unjustified fee hike and commercial activities. Ajay Sharma, a parent, said, “I would appreciate that the government has restricted schools to hike fee not more than 8%. Moreover, they will have to justify the hike as the act says that for hiking fee school will have to justify it that if they are hiking salary of teachers or staff or making any development in school. Every year schools used to hike fee by 10-15% or more to earn profit, but 8% hike would be a relief for parents.“
 
 Another parent, Sandeep Singh from Chandigarh road said, “The school will have to display their fee structure inside the premises. It is a good decision as parents can easily compare and understand the fee structure of different schools.“
 
 Education Minister Daljeet Singh Cheema said, “The Punjab governor has given approval and by tomorrow, modification of implementation would be released with immediate effect.“
 
 Cheema added, “The power of charging fine from Rs 30,000 up to Rs 3 lakh and the authority of righting to respective board for the cancellation of affiliation would help parents to get justice. To make this act stronger, the decision of body shall not be challenged in court.“
 
 Principal of  , Sector 32,  ,   said, “We are hopeful that regulatory body will help resolve fee issues and will work for the betterment of school as well as students.“ 
 
