MUMBAI:   on Saturday declared that the Shiv Sena has severed ties with the BJP for ever. “Sena's politics of alliance is over for good. We will have no partnership with any party. Hereafter, the Sena will be entirely on its own... Hereafter, my Shiv Sainiks will strive to establish our rule in the BMC on our strength... No more politics of alliance... I have burnt my fingers (as BJP's ally)...The BJP should well remember that it has lost a good friend,“ he said on Saturday.

 In a 45-minute speech at a party conclave in Girgaum to flag off Sena's campaign, Uddhav slammed BJP and PM Narendra Modi on a slew of issues. “The BJP has no other leader, except Modi, to flaunt before people. Soon, the PM may become chairman of the city's gardens and markets committee (a BMC panel of not much consequence),“ said Uddhav, adding, “The BMC projects of the last five years have been planned and implemented by the Sena. The BJP hasn't played any role in our schemes.“
 
 Although Uddhav did not say in so many words, civic ob servers said he has slammed the door on the BJP which has of late been dropping hints of a post-poll partnership in the BMC. BJP minister Chandrakant Patil had recently said the two parties could join hands in Mumbai and other civic bodies after the polls.
 
 Uddhav lashed out at BJP for trying to showcase projects in the city to “fool“ voters. He alleged that Modi performed the `jal-pujan' of the Shivaji memorial in the Arabian sea when neither the work order nor tender for the project were ready . “The Dr Ambedkar memorial was flagged off last year. But not a single brick has been placed there,“ he said.
 
 Recalling that the late Bala saheb Thackeray had backed Modi when the latter was in the firing line in the wake of the Godhra massacre, Thackeray said, “Balasaheb had then behaved like a good friend...But BJP hasn't acknowledged our friendship.“
 
 Uddhav warned the BJP that its pet theme of creating a separate statehood for Vidarbha will meet tough opposition from the Sena.“We will turn into mincemeat anyone who tries to bifurcate Maharashtra... On February 21 (the polling day in Mumbai), you have to decide whether to vote for united Maharashtra or for those who are out to tear the state into small fragments,“ he said.
 
 Uddhav ridiculed BJP president  's recent statement that the   were engaged in “friendly contests“. “This is not a friendly contest, Mr Amit Shah. This is a fight to finish between Maharashtra's `asmita' (pride) and those who are keen on crushing it,“ Uddhav said.
 
