LUDHIANA: Four days after the killings of two Dera   followers at Jagera village, the victims’ kin and the sect management on Wednesday agreed to cremate the bodies and lift the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road blockade. The decision to end the protest came after an assurance by the state authorities for two government jobs and ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the family members of the father-son duo who were shot by masked assailants in the Naam Charcha Ghar canteen on Saturday evening. 

 The deadlock over the cremation of bodies came to an end after additional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Hardeep Singh Dhillon held a meeting with the protesters and representatives of the Dera committee at Jagera. “They (Dera followers) have agreed to cremate the bodies. The ADGP (Dhillon) had come for the meeting with the Dera management and family and accepted the demands, including compensation to the bereaved family, government job got two members of the family, fixed deposit in the name of daughter of deceased person (and treatment of her eyes,” said deputy inspector general (DIG), Ludhiana range, S K Kalia. 
 
 Satpal Kumar Joshi, 65, and his son Ramesh, 38, were cremated in Mandi Ahmednagar on Wednesday evening They lived in   in  . While Satpal was a brick kiln manager at Saiyan near Dehlon,   used to trade in men’s apparels. Both used to perform service at the canteen of Naam Charcha Ghar at Jagera and were working there when they were killed. A CCTV footage procured by the police showed that the assailants who had come on a bike were wearing caps and their faces were covered.
 
 Dera’s political wing member   said they agreed to cremate the deceased only after the authorities had agreed to their demand of arresting culprits within five days. He threatened to launch an agitation if the police fail to nab the culprits.
 
 “In a meeting with the leaders of state committee, family members of the deceased persons, they (police) were asking for two days time to arrest those behind the killings, but we gave them five days only. Also, they have agreed to give a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the family of the two deceased persons and government jobs to two family members. Besides, Rs 5 lakh will be given as fixed deposit in the name of the daughter of Ramesh and expenses related to her eye injury,” he said.
 
 Dera leaders said the decisions were taken in the presence of the family members of the deceased as they had left it for the leadership to take a call on the issue.
 
 On Wednesday, a special investigation team led by Kalia was formed to solve the murder case. Claiming that all efforts were being made to arrest the accused, Kalia added, “We have some leads in the case but we will not be able to share any information at this stage”.
 
 
