Expert view - Renu Singh

 NAGPUR:   paper is not a tough nut to crack. Only keeping certain techniques in mind can help you.
 
 When you get the question paper in hand, utilize the 15-minute reading time judiciously. The biggest mistake a student makes is not reading the paper properly and rushing to attempt the answers. Reading well can help you interpret the passage correctly.
 
 The comprehension part, which falls in section A, is quite easy but requires practice. You should read the passage twice. In the first reading, try to understand the topic and get a clear idea about it. In the second reading, divide the data into sub-headings, pick up relevant points and focus on details. This will help you in solving Q.3 i.e note-making. If you get through note-making, then summarizing becomes a cakewalk.
 
 The format of questions in sec B should be at your fingertips. This is the ‘creative writing’ part. Use the rough space to jot down the ideas which keep flowing in your mind. Be it debate, business letter, speech or advertisement, pen down the words popping in your mind that belong to the particular style of write.
 
 Also, make a note of the phrases and quotes you remember. For the literature part in Section C, you are required to read, remember, recollect and reproduce. Be thorough with the novels in your syllabus and focus on characters, events and facts. The approach to character sketches should be from ‘specific to abstract’. Some children tend to write the gist of the story which is useless.
 
 While writing about a personality, mention who he/she was, what he/she did and describe him/her with adjectives. Then elucidate them by giving examples about their strong traits.
 
 Your articles can be made attractive and interesting by using anecdotes and connecting the text to real-life experiences. Be precise in your work and do not exaggerate your answers unnecessarily. Try to keep the sentences short to avoid grammatical errors. Neat work is expected from you but don’t waste time in beautifying your handwriting.
 
 (The writer is vice-principal of Centre Point School, Katol Road)
 
 
