MUMBAI: Sahar cops who arrested eight foreigners—four   and four   nationals—with four   with Chennai addresses on Wednesday, have reportedly learned that the agents wanted in the   case demanded Rs 17 lakh each from the Lankans to help them reach the UK. The agents also provided the four UK nationals with month-long tourist visas that were to expire in March. 

 The Lankans had allegedly planned that if caught in the UK, they would surrender before the authorities and claim their lives were at risk from LTTE and they hoped to be “adopted” by the country.
 
 The agents introduced the UK and Lankan nationals at   airport on March 10 and got their boarding passes exchanged right outside the boarding gate, where they were eventually caught. They were handed over to Sahar police on Wednesday. Investigators are getting details of where the four fake   seized were made. 
 
 “The UK nationals may have successfully helped the agents act as carriers in the past because they knew the Lankans held   Indian passports,” said a police officer.
 
 On Thursday, the investigators sought help of a translator to communicate with the Lankans—Aruna Shuthakaran (34), Kannathasan Karththeepan (26), Gajan Chandrabalan (31) and Kandasamy Kaveenthiri (26)—to get details of the agents. Some of them are graduates and some college dropouts. “We learned the Lankans had paid a total of Rs 20 lakh (Rs 5 lakh each) to one of the agents in their country to help them reach the UK. They were to pay the balance sum later. They thought they could get shelter in the UK and a job,” said an officer.
 
 Investigators said the Lankans managed to skip immigration check because boarding gates for international and domestic flights are in the same corridor. After collecting the boarding passes to fly to Ahmedabad, they waited for the UK nationals—Bower Oliver (27), Quillian Alan (43), Fivehats Captain (56), Julie Ann (36). “The easier part for the Lankans was managing to skip the immigration check because they remained at the boarding gate number 28 from where they could easily take the flight (British Airways) for Heathrow. As planned, they handed over the boarding pass to the UK nationals who were to fly in an Air India flight that came from Thailand and was to fly to Ahmedabad, while the British Airways flight was at the next gate. This helped the Lankans skip the immigration check but a tipoff helped officials to nab all eight,” said the investigators.
 
 
