NEW DELHI: Congress Vice President   on Saturday ridiculed Prime Minister   for "peeping into others' bathrooms" and said he was a complete failure at the job.

 "The Prime Minister is fond of   searching, peeping into others' bathrooms. Let him do that in his free time but his main job is that of a Prime Minister in which he has been a cent per cent failure," Gandhi said while addressing a 
  here with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav. 
 
 The Congress Vice President also said that the Prime Minister will get a "jolt" once the results of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are out.
 
 His comments come against the backdrop of the Prime Minister's remarks in Parliament that one should learn the art of " 
  " from   as there was not a single taint on him despite so many scams having taken place during his regime.
 
 Modi had said in an election rally in Haridwar yesterday that BJP had a detailed dossier on the Congress leaders.
 
 "Mein Congress ke logon se kehta hoon: jabaan sambhaal kar rakho, warna mere paas aapki poori janampatri padi hui hai (hold your tongue, I have your entire horoscope).
 
 Reacting to this comment, Rahul today dared him saying, "You are the Prime Minister for over past two years...You can take out the janmapatri of Congress and go ahead with it."
 
 To another comment of Modi that 
  , the Congress Vice President hit back, saying, "...he likes to search Google and he can do so in his past time...but he has failed in his functions as PM...he will get a jolt from the results of these elections."
 
 "(Actually) Modi's policy is that of distraction...when he cannot give answers to issues like employment, security, demonetisation...he indulges in distraction and the whole country knows about it," Rahul said.
 
 He said Modi had promised to provide two lakh jobs every year and last year only one lakh youths were provided jobs and this year with the unemployment going high, things are back to square one.
 
 "Modi talks about security and terorism...the result of surgical strike has been that some 90 security personnel had to sacrifice their lives first time in seven years," he said.
 
 Speaking at the press conference, the UP Chief Minister said emotions and anger were not right as these were elections for growth and prosperity of the state.
 
 "Anyone's 'janmpatri' is just a click away in this age of Internet," Akhilesh said, asking the "PM and BJP not to mislead people and come forward and tell them as to what they have given to the state which has elected all prominent NDA leaders".
 
 To a question on prominent Muslim clerics like Maulana Ahmed Bukhari and Kalbe Jawwad extending support to BSP, Akhilesh said personal issues should not be manifested at the political level.
 
 "One maulana earlier used to seek votes for BJP and is now backing BSP. Is he working towards an alliance between the two parties? As far as the second maulana is concerned you can ask him personally he will give his blessings to the two of us," he said.
 
 To a question on whether this alliance will remain intact in the future too, Rahul said, "This is also an alliance of joint vision. We have not come together just for forming a government in UP but also to transform the state."
 
 Reality is that the voters understand that the alliance is going to sweep these elections and change Uttar Pradesh, he said.
 
 To a question on "lack of coordination" in the alliance, especially on certain seats where both parties are in contest, Rahul said, "On 99 per cent of 403 seats there is no problem and issues are being resolved on the remaining seats...we are fighting elections together...it is wrong to say there is no coordination in alliance."
 
 "We want that the government is a set up of youths with a vision...while other parties do not talk about foundation... these 10 points in the joint programme are foundations of development," Rahul stressed.
 
 "We also want that the state get a government of all and everyone feels that it is their government...we will help farmers and give jobs to youths," he said.
 
 Akhilesh said he was happy with initial voting trend in the first phase of polling. "First votes went to SP-Congress alliance and so the alliance will be ahead," he said.
 
 In a dig at BSP chief Mayawati, Akhilesh referred to statues of elephants and stone memorials built in her tenure and said, "Pattharwali sarkar bhi ab development ki baat kar rahi hai...yeh alliance ka impact hai."
 
 
 
