RAJKOT: Thousands of devotees belonging to the   on Tuesday began a  , in Kagvad village, some 60km from Rajkot, for the installation of the idol of their deity, Khodiyar Ma.

 The temple trust,  , expects nearly 50 lakh Leuva Patels to congregate at Kagvad on Saturday. “Community members have started arriving in Kagvad. More than five lakh people visited Kagvad on Tuesday alone,” said Paresh Gajera, one of the trustees.
 
 The five-day ceremony began early on Tuesday morning with a procession from Rajkot’s Race Course Road, that was flagged off by former chief minister and prominent Leuva Patel leader   along with Shree Khodaldham Trust president Naresh Patel.
 
 Thousands of community members set off in their vehicles towards Kagvad village to the temple where their deity is to be installed. Other community leaders including Raghavji Patel, Siddharth Patel and Vallabh Kathiria were also present during the flagging off event. State BJP president Jitu Vaghani attended the function at Kagvad on Tuesday evening.
 
 This being the largest gathering of a community, chief minister Vijay Rupani extended his best wishes for the event. “Best wishes for the grand Pran Prathistha Mahotsav of Khodaldham at Kagvad. May Maa Khodal Bless Gujarat with peace, prosperity and progress,” Rupani tweeted.
 
 Leuva Patel colonies across Rajkot city are lit up and girls are seen making colourful rangolis outside the houses to celebrate the event.
 
 According to an estimate, over 7,000 motorcyclists, 4,500 cars, 200 luxury buses and a number of floats were part of the 60-km long procession from Rajkot to Kagvad. The procession was greeted with community members showering flowers on participants along the route. One side of the highway was closed for the general public.
 
 In Gondal, jubilant women made one-km long rangoli on the highway to welcome the procession. As community members from across the state shut their business to attend the mega-event, Kagvad has turned into a mini-kumbh for Leuva Patels. The main event will be on January 21 at Kagvad.
 
 
