NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation has questioned former Delhi health secretary Dr Tarun Seem for alleged irregularities in hiring three private security companies for hospitals -a decision which was approved by the Arvind Kejriwal-led cabinet in just one day.

 CBI probe has revealed that the decision to hire the private security companies was in violation of tendering rules, transaction of business rules and   guidelines and it was taken without taking the then Lt Governor   in the loop. Seem is the second senior office bearer of Delhi government after former principal secretary of   who has been questioned by CBI.
 
 Sources said that CBI asked Seem, who was appointed health secretary by AAP government last year despite being an IRS officer, about hiring 245 security gu ards, 120 lady guards, 243 marshals, 80 supervisors and 21security officers through three private companies -Knight Watch Security Pvt Ltd, Innovision Limited and SIS (India) Limited for providing security for six months on nomination basis. To hire these companies, Delhi government removed the old guards of Director General of Resettlement, which is a forum of retired militarysecurity forces personnel and provides security to many government departments and PSUs.
 
 Seem, sources said, was asked questions about selection criteria and approval by the cabinet, which was taken within a day. The three private companies,   said, were paid in excess, which led to loss of Rs 10.50 crore.The anti-corruption agency is probing several matters related to Delhi government including three probes in which health mi nister Satyender Jain is under scanner. The probes against Jain relate to appointment of his daughter Soumya Jain in Delhi's health department, his OSD Nikunj Aggarwal and laundering of Rs 16 crore by him through alleged shell companies.
 
 According to CBI officials, there was no detailed justification by Seem for selecting three companies for providing the security and they were only called for a meeting and awarded the work contract. “Other agencies in the field of providing security personnel were not even contacted,“ said CBI officials. The CBI's FIR says that the finance department of the Delhi government had agreed to the proposal on April 26, 2016 subject to the administrative department obtaining the approval of the cabinet. “However, rather than seeking prior approval of the cabinet, contract was first awarded to the agencies and it was put up to the cabinet post facto approval“, it says.
 
