GANDHINAGAR: On Tuesday, around 2,000 members of Gujarat Congress   joined the BJP at Dharian village in Dahegam,   district. Among those who joined the ruling party were Muslim sarpanches of two villages located near Congress leader Ahmed Patel’s home village, Piraman. 

 The two Muslim sarpanches are Idrish Patel, 57, sarpanch of Paguthan and Rafiq Ahmed Bhagat, 48, sarpanch of Kothi.
 
 The former Congressmen switched loyalties in the presence of state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and BJP Minority Morcha president Mehboob Ali Chishti (Bawa). 
 
 The BJP had organised its first Minority Morcha Sammelan at Dahegam. Around 5,000 Muslim workers participated in it and took a resolution to bring as many Muslim votes as possible to the BJP in the 2017 assembly elections. 
 
 Idrish Patel of Paguthan village used to be a strong supporter of Ahmed Patel and had worked for the Congress for almost 30 years. After joining the BJP, he said he and his village had remained with the Congress all these years. 
 
 “But after Narendra Modi’s Sadbhavna Mission and participating in the Sarpanch Sammelan, we decided that our perception of the BJP was wrong,” he said. 
 
 “The BJP believes in ‘Sau no Saath, Sau no Vikas’. Hence for more development in my village I decided to join the BJP,” Idrish Patel said. 
 
 Rafiq Ahmed Bhagat, 48, of Kothi village in Bharuch district said after joining the BJP that his father had been a Congress member of Bharuch district panchayat for more than 35 years. 
 
 “But the Congress had just used us,” he said. 
 
 “Congress leaders came to us only during elections while the BJP was helping us in even small matters. As a Sarpanch, I felt that with the BJP, I can do more development in my village,” Bhagat said. 
 
 Gujarat BJP Minority Cell president Mehboob Ali Chisti (Bawa) that currently BJP gets 20% of the Muslim votes. “We aim to increase this considerably in the coming elections. We will now win all the 17 seats which the Congress had won only because of Muslim votes,” he said. 
 
 When asked whether the BJP will give tickets to Muslims, Chishti said the BJP gives tickets only on candidates’ ability to win and not on their community.
 
