NAGPUR: The number of judges in   courts are much less than its branches across the country. Moreover, a lack of   is leading to pendency of cases at consumer forums, said SM Kantikar, member of  .

 He was speaking to TOI on sidelines of lecture organized at   (MNLU) on its premises at   on Saturday.
 
 Kantikar added that the number of members at consumer courts are also less than the actual requirements. “Infrastructure must be provided by the central government in order to increase efficiency and avoid long pendency of cases at the consumer courts.”
 
 He said the judges are paid on daily basis and the wages are very low because of which judges also hesitate to take up this job.
 
 To increase acquittal and to provide instant results in consumer cases, the NCDRC member suggested that the technical members from every sector like doctors for medical claims, auditors for banking disputes must be recruited for efficient and instant results in cases. He also hinted that the political recruitments of members must be avoided and people must be recruited on the basis talents.
 
 While speaking about the spreading awareness among the citizens about their rights Kantikar said, “People must become more vigilant against incidents of being duped, they can approach consumer forums anytime and there is also a 24 hours helpline number 1800-11-4000 on which they can file complaint and get all the information they need”.
 
 He further suggested to start a weekly consumer forums at tehsil level for the rural consumers. “Most affected consumers are from rural areas as they lack awareness about their rights. Tehsil level forums will bring them close to the judiciary system. Awareness camps must also be conducted to spread awareness in the rural area by the consumer forums”.
 
 There are three district forums at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Pune for the consumers to file their cases. There is a three tier system of such forums in India, district level which handles disputes up to the amount of Rs20 lakhs, state commissions which handle cases from Rs20 lakh to Rs1 crore and national commissions which looks after disputes above Rs1 crore.
 
 While talking about the government’s plans to strengthen consumer forums, Kantikar said, “Talks are underway with the government to strengthen laws for the consumer commissions, an amendment is awaited”.
 
 
