JODHPUR: Former chief minister Ashok   said on Wednesday that government should give nod to   into the   without any hesitation and   around the matter in order to ensure peace in the state. 

 “Government should take a humanitarian approach and resolve the matter by first giving nod to the CBI inquiry and then funeral of the body in proper manner as per customs,” Gehlot said.
 
 Gehlot arrived in Jodhpur on Wednesday morning and received an overwhelming reception at the railway station by the party cadres and workers.
 
 Flaying the Central government for its haste in introduction of GST in the country and that too with heavy taxes. He said that today there is an atmosphere of an absolute confusion over GST in the country. “There is an absolute state of confusion in the entire country over GST and the business across the country have been badly affected by this confusion,” he said.
 
 While talking to the mediapersons, Gehlot said that the Congress had supported the GST on the condition that the rate of interest will be kept at 18% but the government has increased it to a whopping 28%.
 
 “This way, the government has imposed GST on the people of the country without any thought and preparation and the country is in a catch 22 situation. Businessmen and traders are completely clueless as what they have to do,” Gehlot said. He further said that there is an overall state of confusion in the country these days as there does not seem to any correct decision taken by the government, be it traders or the farmers.
 
 “Prime minister Narendra Modi had promised to carry out purchasing of the crop from farmers after adding the profit to the input cost but nothing has happened in this direction so far and the farmers are compelled to take up the path of protests,” Gehlot said.
 
 “Making the things further worse, the central government has forced the waver of the loan of the farmers on the state governments and has reneged upon her own promise of loan waver,” he said.
 
 From the railway station, Gehlot headed straight to the Gandhi Maidan to flag of the rally of the youth congress, organized in favour of the protest of the farmers against the state government.
 
 
