The season of college fests is back. Due to the sudden noteban, fest organising committees had to initially struggle for sponsorships, but the demon of   couldn’t scale down these campus fiestas. In fact, with many new competitions, bigger prize money, more celebrities and better promotions, the budgets have shot up this year. We bring you the lowdown on the scale of some upcoming college fests of the city… 

 
 The management of Yeshwantrao Chavan College of Engineering has ensured that college’s 28-year-old annual fest   does not lose its sheen, come what may. “We didn’t let demonetisation spoil our college fest’s reputation. Right from college décor to roping in celebrities and security arrangements, we did not compromise on the any aspect.” says fest in-charge Aniket Munshi and adds, “The festival budget has risen by 20 per cent this year. Also, last year we didn’t organise any celebrity event but this time, there will be two celebrity singers performing live on the last day; this factor has played a major part in catapulting our budget.”
 
 
 Kicking off the demonetisation blues, NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences too is all set to host a grand   college fest Josh. There are a lot of new events added in the fest itinerary this year for the students. Updating on the grandeur of the fest, faculty in-charge Dr Mohana Majumdar says, “We do not have to source sponsorships from outside, it is the college management that spends on the fest completely. We will be organising a grand fete this time along with a Vidarbha level personality contest. Adding a celeb quotient to the fest for the first time, a popular television personality will perform at Josh.” The   of GH Raisoni College’s Antaragni has also not scaled down. General Secretary of the fest, Aditya Sarda shares, “The fest’s budget this time has really shot up. We are spending bomb on light, sound arrangements for the mega event — fashion show. Another addition this year is a body building event wherein body builders from Vidarbha will walk the ramp. Apart from a celebrity singer, we are inviting actor Sunil Grover this year for a stand-up act.” 
 
 
 One of the oldest intercollege fest Aarohi of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology has raised its bar despite experiencing a few hiccups while sourcing sponsorship. The fest will kick-start with Marathi singer Swapnil Bandodkar’s renditions and it will end with Bollywood singer Papon’s romantic numbers. Elaborating on this, one of the coordinators Praful Patle says, “Students look forward to our celeb night and we can’t compromise on our standards. We found the way out of doing barter deals when sponsors refused to give cash. Papon’s concert is by far the most expensive event of our fest. In fact, to create a buzz about this concert, we have put up six hoardings at different hotspots.”
 
