   Sandeep.Rai@timesgroup.com    Jhansi / Jalaun: Calling a Dalit by his caste may be an offence under Scheduled Caste and scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, but the rigid caste-based society in Bundelkhand continues to observe archaic traditions that still focus on humiliating the backward classes in every possible way.    At a time when addressing someone by his caste can put one in jail, there are several localities and villages spread all over Bundelkhand named after the castes of people who live there. There has been a long-standing demand by Dalits to change the names of these localities but nothing has been done so far, even though candidates of political parties have also promised this in the past.    Just 20 km from Jhansi is Bajna village, where a large concentration of Dalits live in a locality called Chamarya. This term is generally associated with several Dalit communities like Jatan and Jatia, and are collectively known as ‘Chamaar’, which is a prohibited term and can attract action under the SC/ST Act. Another village in the same district is Chamroa. Even government records list the areas under these names. Jalaun district, too, has many villages with similar names, such as Chamaari and Chamed.    Satish Prakash, a Dalit activist, said, “Although there are 66 castes and tribes that have been declared Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, ‘bhangi’, ‘chooda’ and ‘chamaar’ are among the most derogatory terms used collectively for Dalits. Nowadays the use of these terms is prohibited and more respectable ones like Jatav, Balmiki and Dalit have emerged.”    “During each election we ask the candidates to get the names of these villages and localities changed, but we get only empty promises in return. It becomes really embarrassing when you are asked your village’s name. It immediately reveals our caste identity and the attitude of the people around us changes drastically in this caste-driven society of Bundelkhand,” says Budhh Prakash, a resident of Chamroa.    According to a young resident of Chamarsena village in Jalaun distrct, who did not wish to be named, “The name of my village is actually a curse for me. I can hide my caste status but when the name of my village is asked, I am subjected to an immediate humiliation that can be anything from a derogatory remark to a sort of social ostracism. From schools to markets, we face this discrimination everywhere.”    Deep Shikha, Chamarsena’s pradhan, said, “We had given an application to change the name of this village from Chamarsena to Amarsena but I doubt if the name has been changed in the records, because no one takes us seriously in the government offices.”    However, owing to extreme subjugation of Dalits in the region, name change of the village or locality often becomes secondary. It is the matter of survival for them. “Firstly, majority of people living in these villages are illiterate and downtrodden. There is always an element of fear, particularly during elections. Politicians and their strongmen often force these people to vote for specific candidates. So the question of demanding their rights does not even arise,” said Ganpat Kumar, a school teacher who lives in Chamarya in Bajna village.    Tilak Chand Aheerwar, senior BSP leader and ex-MLC from the region professed ignorance about the matter. “I am not aware of any such village or locality. But if it exists, we will certainly look into the matter,” he said.