If you thought that demonetisation has taken away the fun from engineering   fest, think again. While we earlier reported about how the fests are losing out on sponsors due to the cash crunch, the   money seems to have gone up at these fests.   Times finds out  

 
 
 
 The technical competitions at these fests which include robo race, bridge making, C-code and project exhibitions have gone grander this year. The prize money for these competitions begin at a not-so-modest `25,000 and go up to `1 lakh. Why? well, students believe that the bigger prize money will attract better participation.
 
  “Many engineering colleges organise technical fests and exhibitions during this time. ‘Bigger the competition, better the college’ is the general consensus, so it’s imperative for colleges to have a fest with competitions on a grand scale. It’s a prestige issue!” explains  , a mechanical engineering student from  . “When you organise a national-level competition in your college, you need participants who are not from just the 30-mile radius of your city, you need to get participants from other cities and states too. And the only way to attract better participation is having grander prizes,” says Darshan.
 
 Although many colleges lost their sponsorship due to demonetisation, they didn’t cut down on the prize money. Instead, they cut down on the expenditure on entertainment programmes. “Annual social event is an internal matter of the college. So we can curb the expenditure over there. However, we invite students across the state for our state-level techno exhibition and project competition. If we would have cut down prize money, it would have reflected poorly on our reputation. So, we increased our prize money from `15,000 to `25, 000,” shares Kunal Kabra, an engineering student and event co-ordinator of PVG Engineering College. 
 
 
 
 
 While students are appreciating the grander prize money, college professors believe that students should focus on what they can learn through such technical competitions. “Prize money should always come second to learning. Students should participate in as many competitions as possible to sharpen their skills. It’s my advice to them that they should never be afraid to innovate,” says MV Bhatkar, principal of Jawahar Institute of Technology.
 
  
 
  
 
 
