JAIPUR: ‘Rajasthan Festival’, hosted by state tourism department, will take place from March 27-30. The four-day event will witness a variety of rich cultural programmes to celebrate the historical establishment of Rajasthan.

 The opening ceremony will begin with lighting of Rajasthan Day Torch. Final matches of rural sports along with cultural programmes by theatre director Bhanu Bharti will be organised at SMS stadium. 
 
 A cycle marathon by sports department will also be held at SMS stadium on March 27, 28. On the same day, ‘Jaipur Kathak Samaroh’ by Jaipur Kathak Kendra in association with the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will be organized at Central Park. An exhibition called ‘Theatre of E Alkazi’ will be organised at   (JKK) from March 27 to April 5. A tattoo show by BSF and   has been scheduled on March 28 at Polo Ground.
 
 Next two days (Narch 28,29) will comprise of ‘Bhajas’, ‘Qawwalis’, ‘Gurbani’, ‘Vedic’ chanting at temple, church and gurudwara.
 
 The events will be organized in association with Sanskrit Academy. A children’s film festival has also been organized in Inox Crystal Palm. Similarly, International Festival of Short Films on Culture & Tourism will be held at Indralok Auditorium.
 
 An exciting Air Fly-Past and   (IAF) will be held on March 29. Furthermore, Army Pageant will showcase trick riding, massed pipes and drums show at Polo Ground. In evening, renowned Bangladeshi fashion designer Bibi Russell will present a heritage fashion show followed by a mega concert by Bollywood singer Mohit Chauhan at Albert Hall Museum. 
 
 ‘Rajasthan Day Celebration’ will witness an attractive projection mapping show dedicated to state people at Vidhansabha on March 30. Gangaur procession will also be taken out at the traditional route from Tripoliya Gate to the Talkatora on March 30 and 31.
 
 Earlier, Rajasthan Day Marathon will begin from each of the divisional headquarters from March 23 to 27. A rural sports festival will also be organized at SMS stadium.
 
