GHAZIABAD: The district administration and police in Ghaziabad have made elaborate security arrangements in the city ahead of UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s public meeting on Wednesday. Akhilesh, who will arrive on a copter at Police Lines at 11am, is scheduled to address an election rally in Masuri on the city’s outskirts at 11.40am.

 On Tuesday, senior   including DIG (Meerut Range) K Sunil Emmanuel and SSP Ghaziabad Deepak Kumar reviewed security arrangements across the district.
 
 The police force deployed to provide security cover to the CM’s motorcade and meeting includes 200 constables, 15 station house officers, seven deputy superintendents of police and four additional superintendents of police.
 
 Deepak Kumar told TOI that the security arrangements were found adequate during the review. “Directions have been issued to the traffic department to ensure there aren’t any vehicular jams in the city during the programme,” he said.
 
 According to the traffic department, the stretch of road from Police Lines up to the meeting venue in Masuri will be one-way while the meeting is on.
 
 The traffic department is, meanwhile, trying to make sure it is not embarrassed by traffic jams during the chief minister’s visit. 
 
 Massive traffic snarls were reported from several parts of the city on the occasion of Akhilesh Yadav’s visit to Ghaziabad for inaugurating the Haj House in September 2016.
 
 Ghaziabad SP (traffic) Rajesh Kumar said that since the venue of the CM’s meeting on Wednesday was outside the city limits there would be no restriction on or diversion of traffic movement anywhere in Ghaziabad. 
 
 “However, vehicular movement will be barred for five to seven minutes till the time the CM’s fleet travels on the carriageway of NH-24 towards Hapur. There will be no restriction at all on traffic movement on the other carriageway of NH-24,” Kumar said.
 
 Till Tuesday evening, there was no word on whether any senior leader of Congress will attend the meeting .
 
 
