PUNE: Joint commissioner of   has ordered an inquiry into the alleged extortion by some officers of the   from 12 college students staying in the vicinity.

 As per the orders, the inquiry is to be headed by deputy commissioner of police (north zone)  , who will have to submit a report into the matter in 15 days.
 
 Last month, some officers from the Deccan police station had visited the rented apartment of the students after receiving a complaint from their neighbours. One of the students told TOI, “On December 4, I was having a party at my rented apartment with my friends, including three women. Around 1:30am, two police officers came into our house and started questioning us. After seeing the women, they started asking what they were doing at my apartment so late in the night.”
 
 The officers threatened to call our parents and asked each one of us to give them Rs 1,500, the student alleged. “When we told them that we didn’t have that much money, they settled for Rs 5,000 and went away,” he said. 
 
 One of the students alleged that on December 25, when one of his friends was playing the guitar late in the night, the police officers visited their apartment once again and demanded Rs 1,500 to not pursue a case against them. 
 
 Fed up with the harassment, one of the students complained to the joint police commissioner after which an inquiry has been initiated.
 
 Ramanand said ,“I have forwarded the complaint. I assure that any misbehaviour on the part of my men (police officers) will be looked into. For the first time, we have also called the parents of the students so that they keep a tab on them.”
 
 Emphasizing that he doesn’t believe in moral policing, Ramanand said, “The control room received a call saying that loud music was being played and a ruckus was being created in the flat. This was relayed on wireless and a beat marshal went to check it. It was found to be true and they went in to check. Next day, one of the boys came and complained that police demanded money from them.”
 
 Ramanand said while partying was okay, there is a need for the youth to act responsibly. “You can do whatever you want within the confines of your home without inconveniencing others,” he said, adding that students can approach him if they face any problem from police. 
 
 
