KOLKATA:   was the first Indian   to become a civil servant. Rose Venkatesan was India’s first transwoman to host a TV show. Shabnam Mausi contested the elections while Manabi Bandopadhyay became the country’s first transwoman college principal. Yet for the large section of the Indian transgender population, finding employment still remains a big problem.

 One such case in point in Bengal is that of Atri Kar. Originally a male, Atri is now undergoing hormone therapy in the quest to transform into a female after undergoing sex realignment surgery. This year, the 27-year-old Tribeni resident was forced to move court after the State Bank of India (SBI) had turned a deaf ear to her pleas to furnish an application that had provision for the third gender. She had sought legal redress when there was no corrective measure forthcoming even after contacting the SBI chairman’s office.
 
 The situation had looked optimistic for Atri when the Calcutta high court had directed SBI to accept her application for the post of probationary officer as a transgender person. It had also directed the bank to treat her application in the reserve category as directed by the Supreme Court.
 
 However, when TOI met Atri at a panel discussion on livelihood discrimination towards the transgender community that was organised by US consulate general Kolkata in association with Bappaditya Mukherjee’s Prantakatha at the American Centre on Wednesday afternoon, she was still unsure about her future. On April 30, she is supposed to write the exams for the probationary officer of SBI as a transgender person. However, on April 23 SBI had moved court forcing her to walk legal corridors again instead of preparing for her exams.
 
 Speaking about the struggles in her life, Atri said, “At every stage in my life, I have been fighting court battles.” She had earlier moved court to be eligible for writing the   and  .
 
 Talking about her latest battle, Atri said, “The court had even ordered SBI to wave off my examination fees. But now I have to again fight a legal battle because SBI has moved court. Their argument is that since the Transgender Bill is still pending in the Parliament, I shouldn’t be allowed to write the exams. My advocates are trying to fight it out though there is little time to do much. With so much tension, how do I prepare?” asked Atri looking helpless.
 
 On Sunday morning, Atri was still not sure if she would be allowed to write the exam. “I will be going to the examination centre. But I don’t know what awaits me there. Perhaps, it will again be another battle,” she said.
 
 Though society has become transgender-friendly, employment challenges remain. That was a reality echoed by community members including fashion designer Diya Bhattacharya, dancer Sohini Boral, fashion makeup artist Suman Sarkar, theatre actor Tanushree Chakraborty. “People come to my boutique to see me more than my designs. They just stare at me but don’t buy my designs. Once a photographer told me that he would help me showcase my designs at a reputed fashion show in Mumbai if I agreed to sleep with him. Even if we have skills, society still has a problem accepting our works,” Diya said.
 
 Despite her talent as a dancer which was evident in her performance along with Karishma from the hijra community, Sohini said that getting regular shows in mainstream society isn’t easy. “Today, I work in a community based organisation. But, there have been countless times when I’ve not been given a chance despite my skillsets being better than those from mainstream society,” Sohini regretted.
 
 Tanushree, who has been associated for long with Nandikar, has never faced any discrimination while working with the group. “But I will be stereotyped once I ask for roles elsewhere. Since I don’t have a manly voice, I might not face a huge discrimination. Even then, I will not get to play the role of Sita. A feminine beauty is not what I will be asked to portray,” Tanushree said.
 
 The problem is more acute in the districts, said Jayita from Islampur. “Whatever little happens is always restricted to Kolkata. Nothing reaches the districts. When we apply for jobs, our admit cards never reach us,” Jayita said.
 
 Yet, there was some hope with   promising to offer training and guaranteed employment to two members of the transgender community in the health sector.
 
