COIMBATORE: Builders in the country are in talks with the   seeking changes to the decades-old rules pertaining to the award of  , a top official said. 

  "The agreements for government contracts are not fair. It is a legacy of the British era," said H N Vijaya Raghava Reddy, president, Builders' Association of India (BAI).
 
 Builders want the EMD (earnest money deposit) and the security deposits for contracts to be reduced, he said. BAI is urging the government to bring down EMD from 2.5% of the contract to 1% and the security deposit to 5% from 10%. 
 
 The mobilisation advance must be enhanced by an additional 10% to enable builders to purchase equipment, Reddy stated. The advance currently stands at 10%.
 
 The CIDC (Construction Industry Development Council) is discussing various aspects pertaining to the rules, Reddy, who was in the city to participate in the 'installation of office bearers' programme of BAI's Coimbatore chapter, said. 
 
 "They (government) are listening to us. We would be able to come to some conclusion (on the changes)," he stated. 
 
 The CIDC, which has representatives from the government including the director general of CPWD (central public works department), has already held meetings in this regard and builders are hopeful of reaching a mutually acceptable solution, Reddy said.
 
 Though escalation clauses are incorporated based on WPI (wholesale price index), many institutions do not adopt them, he said. Only some organisations like ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) honour escalation clause, he claimed.
 
 While the pace of projects executed by the union government is expected to gather momentum in the next few years, Reddy said that contractors based in the country alone would not be able to meet the requirements.
 
  "A lot of government projects are coming up. But we are not in a position to execute," he said.
 
 The affordable housing scheme of the union government, which aims to provide 'Housing for All' by 2022, alone is expected to generate business of close to Rs 90,000 crore, Reddy said. 
 
 "We need a lot of men and material. We have to augment our capacities," he said. The government, in its bid to give a boost to the real estate sector, had accorded infrastructure status to affordable housing segment in the budget this year. 
 
 
