Vadodara: Shortage of permanent and experienced teaching staff at M S University is lilely to impact the forthcoming MSU Students Union (MSUSU) polls as well. 

 Ahead of the students union polls scheduled on October 5, the university officials have appointed as many as 77 teachers, mostly professors from various faculties, in the centralised observation committee. A couple of deans including that of Faculty of Science and Faculty of Arts had, however, sent a missive to MSU officials asking the university authorities not to involve its teaching staff as they are already facing dearth of experienced teaching staff in organising their own elections for faculty level associations. 
 
 “We have around 5,000 students at our own faculty where the elections for the various posts for faculty level associations will be held on the same day,” said professor A C Sharma, dean of Faculty of Science, who had written a letter to the university before the university announced the formation of the centralised observation committee. 
 
 This time, the university has decided that counting of the votes casted for the posts of MSUSU general secretary and vice-president will be done at the faculty level instead of the earlier centralised counting system. The decision has added responsibility on the faculties which will now not only have to arrange for counting of this votes apart from handling their own faculty level elections. 
 
 The faculties had urged to spare its staff from the centralised duties as although they have temporary teaching staff, most of them do not have experience of handling or managing the affairs when it comes to students union polls. 
 
 Some faculties also had to postpone their exam dates due to the polls. For instance, exams of ATKT students at undergraduate level at Faculty of Science was supposed to begin on October 5 and continue till October 12. Now, the faculty has decided to postpone the exam on October 5 to October 13 and October 14. 
 
 Hoardings of ex-VP torn
 
 Vadodara: Former vice-president (VP) of MSU Students Union Priyanka Patel on Sunday submitted a complaint at Sayajigunj police station stating that some unidentified miscreants tore her hoardings late on Saturday night. Patel, who is running for the post of MSUSU general secretary, has complained that around six miscreants, who were roaming around in two cars, tore her hoardings which were erected at several spots in the city. She has demanded that police should check CCTV footage of the spots and take action against the miscreants. 
 
 Just one day for campaigning
 
 Vadodara: Student leaders and outfits who are in fray in the forthcoming MSU Students Union polls will get just one day for campaigning inside the university campus this year. After the break of Navratri festivities, when most faculties wore a deserted look, the holidays on Sunday and Monday on account of Gandhi Jayanti have led to a situation whereby the student leaders will be able to campaign inside the university campus only on Tuesday. With the elections scheduled on October 5, campaigning for the polls cannot be done on October 4 as the election code of conduct will be in place. 
 
 Cops take stock of the campus 
 
 Vadodara: Police inspectors of Sayajigunj, Fatehgunj and Raopura police stations on Sunday took stock of the security arrangements inside the university campus by visiting the rooms at all the faculties where the polling will take place. Earlier on Saturday, the cops also had a meeting with presiding officers of all the faculties to discuss the security arrangements needed for the elections. “Based on their Sunday’s visit, the necessary police force will be kept on the election day,” said Virendra Kher, returning officer for MSUSU polls. 
 
 
