KOCHI: Auditoria, convention centres,  ,   and major hotels, which contribute 25% of the garbage generated in Kochi, will now have to introduce green protocol and also set up plants for treating their own waste.

 Kochi corporation, which has sent notices to around 500 such establishments in this regard, will provide subsidies for installing solid waste treatment plants.
 
 The corporation authorities also convened a meeting of operators or representatives of such assembly halls. "The waste generated by such firms constitutes around 25% of total waste in the city. Plastic cups, plastic plates and other non-biodegradable objects and biodegradable items like food are being collected in same container. Then, authorities of such firms would approach some of the contingency workers who collect waste on behalf of the corporation and influence them. The wor kers would collect unsegregated waste as such and dump the waste at the corporation's solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram. This unsegregated waste creates headache for us," said  , chairperson, standing committee for health.
 
 Representatives of around 300 firms attended the meeting convened by the corporation."We have asked them to follow green protocol while allotting the auditorium or the hall for organizing events. Then, generation of non-biodegradable waste can be avoided. We have instructed them to set up their own waste treatment plants. The corporation will give 50% of the cost for installing the plant subject to a maximum of Rs 50,000 as subsidy," Minimol said. The corporation is planning to organize an exhibition of different types of waste treatment plants. "Operators of auditoria and conference halls will get an opportunity to watch functions of different types of plants.Then, they can select the plant which better suit their needs. If they are interested, they can enter in to agreements with manufacturers for purchasing the plant," she said. "Even if only a few firms come forward at the onset, others can be motivated," she said.
 
 The state government has introduced waste management policy which gives thrust on decentralized treatment of waste.The move by the corporation will be in tandem with the state government policy . Haritham project of the state government provides support for local bodies in treating waste locally . Once auditoria and halls switch over to their own treatment plants, the corporation can cut down on cost on hiring trucks and transportation. The workforce also can be decreased considerably .
 
 There are reports that waste from many of the convention centres and auditoria are being dumped in vacant plots in the city. According to health department, such plots would normally turn in to breeding ground of almost all contagious diseases.It is from such plots that rodents and mosquitoes are being hatched out. If the plan of the corporation becomes a success, then it would help control communicable diseases to certain extent.
 
