LUCKNOW: Its commitment to ensure round-the-clock power supply in the state notwithstanding, UP government has decided to either do away with or stop operation of as many as eight state-owned thermal power units citing their poor performance. The units, installed in four out of the existing five power plants in the state, account for a total installed capacity of around 800MW. Power generation from state-owned power plants is around 3400MW.

 The units in the radar of the state government include four units in Obra, two units in Panki and one unit each in Harduaganj and Paricha thermal power plants. The board of directors of UP Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam has already given its nod to ‘deletion’ of two 50MW units in Obra. A proposal to abandon two more units, of 100MW each, in the same power plant has also been mooted, confirmed UPRVUNL Director (technical) B S Tewari, while speaking to TOI.
 
 Likewise, a 110MW unit in Kanpur’s Panki power plant is likely to be done away with in March 2018. Another 110MW unit in Panki is proposed to be abandoned once the state government establishes a super-critical 660MW unit for which it has already received environmental clearance.
 
 Energy department has also stalled functioning of 110MW units in Harduaganj and Parichha, citing inefficiency. Both units, however, have undergone exhaustive maintenance at an estimated cost of over Rs 500 crore in the recent past. Tewari said the units have been “put on a reserve” by state government. “They will be operated only in times of power crisis,” he said.
 
 Principal Secretary, energy, Alok Kumar confirmed that the old and inefficient power units will have to be done away with. “The high heat rate and large consumption of coal by these units is taking a toll on state exchequer,” he said.
 
 The development has sent power employees in UP into a tailspin. Chairman,  , Shailendra Dubey said it was like killing state-owned utilities to facilitate the private sector. Employees in Panki too are up in arms against the state government decision to do away with power units. Convener of Panki Power House Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, Ajay Dwivedi, said the state government is yet to show any interest in setting up a new unit while abondoning the older ones. “This way, the Panki project would end entirely,” Dwivedi said.
 
 Energy department's merit order dispatch (MOD) document detailing cost of power procured from various power plants says it all. According to the document, submitted to the   (UPERC), the cost of power from units in Panki, Obra, Harduaganj and Parichha have been on the higher side.
 
 Power from Harduaganj costs Rs 6.15 per unit, while the one from Panki comes at the rate of Rs 5.43 per unit. Likewise, cost of power from Parichha and Obra is Rs 4.86 per unit and Rs 4.21 per unit, respectively. Dubey, however, argued electricity cost from the said power plants was comparable or even less than some projects like Dadri, Auraiyya and Tanda from where the state government continues to purchase electricity.
 
 Obra (Sonebhadra)
 
 * 2x50MW units established in 1969 and 1971 with the help of Russian (then USSR) companies Taganrog and LMZ
 
 * The other two units of 100MW each were established in 1973 with the help of BHEL
 
 Panki (Kanpur)
 
 * Two units of 110 MW were established in 1977 by BHEL
 
 * One unit is proposed to be suspended by March 2018
 
 Harduaganj (Aligarh)
 
 * A 110MW unit established in 1978 with the help of BHEL
 
 Parichha (Jhansi)
 
 * A 110MW unit established in 1984 with the help of BHEL
 
 State Sector Generation (As on September 12, 2017): 3403 MW
 
 Anpara 1705MW
 
 Obra 472MW
 
 Panki 65MW
 
 Parichha 671MW
 
 Harduaganj 49 MW
 
 * Plant load factor of the state-owned units have been varying between 70% and 90% 
 
 
