CUTTACK: After supervising  's light training session at the DRIEMS College ground on Saturday when coach   was confronted by waiting mediapersons, he seemed cool and collected.

 "Mohun Bagan are playing so well in the Federation Cup that they look capable of inflicting another Siliguri-like drubbing on  , isn't it?" a scribe hurled the first bouncer. After staring at the interrogator for a few seconds, the Mohun Bagan coach gave a cryptic reply: "I can't recall what has happened in Siliguri. I have a very poor memory." Before the scribes could react, Sen ducked into the team bus with a wry smile on his face.
 
 Sen may have tactfully evaded the question but there is no denying the fact that his team will be under pressure to deliver a repeat show of Siliguri in Sunday's second semifinal against traditional rivals East Bengal.
 
 Exactly five weeks ago, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal had arrived in Siliguri closely locked in the I-League championship race. Bagan emerged 2-1 winners, dealing a crucial blow to East Bengal's title hopes.
 
 Much has happened since that April 9 derby. East Bengal never recovered from the derby loss and their I-League campaign disintegrated spectacularly. Ironically, Bagan too could not capitalise on the derby victory and ended up as the second-best team in the I-League behind  .
 
 This is the third successive Kolkata derby that will be played away from the eastern metropolis this season. The two protagonists may miss the lung power of their legion of supporters at the   here, but the stakes are so high that either team can't afford to slip up. Unlike the I-League derbies, this one is a knockout match with a berth in the final on offer for the winners.
 
 Bagan appear to have taken the I-League disappointment in their stride and ticked all the boxes in the group league stage of the Federation Cup. East Bengal, on the other hand, are still in the process of rediscovering their earlier form that had seen them sitting pretty at the top of the I-League table at the halfway stage.
 
 Bagan will be buoyed by the fact that their strikers as well as attacking midfielders, including Sony Norde and Katsumi Yusa, have already got their names on the scoresheet.
 
 Having netted eight goals in their three Group B games, Bagan are the most prolific team in the tournament. East Bengal, on the other hand, have managed just one win in three matches and entered the last-four stage having scored the least number of goals (3) among the semifinalists.
 
 Both Sen and his East Bengal counterpart   (assistant coach), however, insisted that irrespective of how the two teams qualified, the semifinal will be a "whole new ball game".
 
 "A match is not won by how you approach the 90 minutes, but how you play in those 90 minutes," Chowdhury maintained, promising "a different" East Bengal in the derby clash.
 
 Sen also insisted on the match-eve that it will be all about "overcoming pressure" in the knockout stage.
 
 Sen, who had rested key players in Bagan's last group league match against   on Friday, is set to summon regulars like   in midfield, Anas Edathodika in defence and Darryl Duffy in the up front.
 
 For the East Bengal team management, it was back to the drawing board. Team manager and former India defender Manoranjan Bhattacharya had a special session with his players at the team hotel, emphasising the need to keep Bagan wingers Sony and Katsumi in check.
 
 East Bengal are also hoping that their main striker Willis Plaza will be able to shake off his poor form and seize the moment in what promises to be a high-voltage clash.   and Gurwinder Singh are available for selection after serving out their one-match suspensions.
 
 But with Ugandan defender Ivan Bukenya still recuperating from a head injury, Arnab Mondal may be brought back in a central defensive role.
 
 Incidentally, the last time East Bengal had played Mohun Bagan in the Federation Cup, they emerged 1-0 victors at this very venue in the 2010 final.
 
 History may point to East Bengal but form favours Bagan.
 
