JAIPUR: Fortune smiled on two minors, who are staying in a shelter home in Kota, after officials of the   (CWC) discovered gold and silver jewellery along with Rs 96,500 in old currency from their ancestral home.

 But the   (RBI) has not allowed them to deposit the money in a bank, forcing the CWC to take up the matter with the prime minister’s office (PMO).
 
 The minors—Suraj and sister Saloni—were thirteen- and nine-years old, respectively, when their widowed mother was murdered in 2013 at Saharwada village in   of Rajasthan.
 
 Since then, the two have been living in a shelter home run by an NGO. But their luck changed when new CWCs were formed across the state in December 2016.
 
 During a review, the new committee found that the orphans had an ancestral house.
 
 “Usually, in criminal cases when children are orphaned, the police are supposed to make an inventory of things recovered from the property. But, in this instance, the police arrested the murder accused and locked the house,” said Harish Gurbaxani, chairperson, CWC, Kota, speaking to TOI over the phone.
 
 Earlier this year, the committee traced their home and discovered that the brother-sister duo had ‘inherited’ a small fortune, including Rs 96,500 in old currency.
 
 “We had interacted with orphaned children living in shelter homes. In January, the boy Suraj told us that they had an ancestral home. We took them to their home and found some gold and silver jewellery, utensils and Rs 96,500 in old denomination,” Harish said.
 
 Initially, the CWC approached the RBI. “But, we didn’t manage to exchange the money. Both the children wanted the money kept in fixed deposit for the girl Saloni until she reached the age of marriage. A letter was written to RBI on March 17, 2017. However, they denied us by quoting some ordinance.”
 
 Suraj, who is studying in 9th standard, then requested the CWC to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Arun Jaitley.
 
 “His letter was sent to PMO on March 23,” he said.
 
 They have received assurances and are now awaiting confirmation on Monday.
 
 “The office of Union minister of state for finance, Arjun Ram Meghwal, has responded and assured us of a positive outcome by Monday,” he added.
 
 When contacted, Meghwal said, “The matter has come to our notice. Hopefully, we will expedite the matter on Monday and do the needful.” 
 
