HYDERABAD: Ramadan, the ninth month of Muslim calendar, is about a month away but many Muslims have already begun preparations for the Islamic holy month.

 This year, Ramadan, the fasting month, will begin in the last week of May. 
 
 While many rich and upper middle class Muslim families are busy calculating the quantum of zakat (fixed charity) to be paid by them over the net savings in the previous year, social and religious organisations have launched a massive campaign in Hyderabad, particularly in the  , urging the members of the principal minority community to stay away from obscenity including advertisements in newspapers and roadside hoardings depicting women semi nude. Yet another group of Muslim NGOs has been creating awareness in the community to focus more on devotion, charity and prayers during the holy month. Muslim scholars insist that Muslims should focus more on prayers rather than on shopping and feasting on mouth-watering dishes. The campaign against obscenity and nudity seems to have worked well as several shopkeepers have switched over to advertising their products, particularly clothes, using mannequins rather than female models. 
 
 Even jewellery shop owners are also using mannequins to sell the ornaments. Several hoardings have also come up with mannequins wearing footwear, designer dresses, jewellery and bangles.”Stop promoting nudity for selling your fabrics/products,” reads one of the campaign advertisements in social media. Another slogan goes thus,”Don’t promote obscenity by selling fabrics”. 
 
 “Ramadan is a holy month for Muslims. It is also a time for feasting and shopping. While there is nothing wrong in eating and buying clothes, the focus should be on devotion. Ramadan is primarily meant for prayers, fasting, charity, spread of love and humanity and staying away from all things bad and evil,” said religious scholar and social activist Moulana Abdul Rahman Khurram Jamai. 
 
 Affan Quadri, secretary of  , an  , said since many people will be busy with devotion during Ramadan, they will not get time to calculate the zakat.
 
