LUCKNOW: Agitated by the Centre's decision to add two new criteria for medical aspirants to appear in NEET-2017, aspirants in   (UP) have decided to vote for the party that takes up their career issue.

 Around 50,000 aspirants in UP alone have been affected by the sudden introduction of maximum of three attempts and upper age limit of 25 years for general and 30 years for reserved category candidates in the national level medical entrance exam. Over 1.21 lakh had appeared for NEET from UP last year. A group of around 15 aspirants who will be denied the opportunity this time have decided to take the matter to high court. Moreover, if no relief is provided until February 20, clarion call for on ground protests in streets across the state has also been given out. From all corners of the state, the Centre's decision has been criticised by students as one being made too late, with the last date for online application being March 1 and the examination scheduled for May 7.
 
 Just in his 25th year, Ghulam Nabi, a resident of   who has been preparing for the competitive examination for years now in Lucknow, has suddenly found himself ineligible to take NEET-2017. “Every election they promise employment and education and now in one rash move, they have rendered thousands of us without careers.The motto 'sab padhe, sab badhe' in reality is only, 'sab padhe, sab rukein',“ he said.
 
 “Strangely, so have they taken the eligibility criteria from May 8, 1992 and 1987 for unreserved and reserved category respectively, which is the date when NEET-2016 was undertaken. Shouldn't it be December or January when the session begins so that those born in months before May could have fulfilled the criteria?“ he asked.
 
 For   native Navneet Tripathi, who has been preparing by self for the examination in Lucknow, the issue will be deciding his vote and for all 50,000 like him. I am a burden on my farmer father now. Had it not been better that they in troduced these criteria last year only when NEET was taken up? Or at least informed about the decision in advance before we spent days and nights. Our vote will only go to the one who brings us jus tice,“ he said. Canates didates from the rural areas believe the inaccessibility to CBSE medium schools in their villages, making their education medium being UP board, only adds up additional preparation years.“There is no limit of age or attempts for   and JIPMER, but for their own state seats there comes a sudden clause. The issue will now be made into a movement,“ said   of Swaraj Andolan Trust.
 
