KOCHI: Though   (MVD) has issued a set of guidelines for   (EIBs),   transporting students do not come under their surveillance. Only EIBs are checked regularly by authorities including MVD, police and school management. In such circumstances, a joint effort is required to ensure the   traveling in private vehicles for which authorities, parents and school should join hands.

 MVD officials said that they inspect school buses so as to avoid accidents and ensure safety. “We have set guidelines for educational institution buses and their drivers and we ensure that checks are made at the right time. Thus, we ensure a safe journey for students. We can inspect these vehicles during special drives or when they are brought for fitness tests,“ said transport com missioner  .
 
 We had even amended the motor vehicle rules to accommodate certain changes to ensure the safety of students, he added.
 
 CBSE School Managements Association said that the number of private buses transporting students equals the number of educatio nal institution buses. “So, regulating such vehicles is very much important,“ said TPM Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE School Managements Association.
 
 “On our part, we have given instructions to our members to regulate such vehicles. We don't know how many schools follow the instructions,“ he said. “We have asked school authorities to collect the details of drivers of private vehicles. We have also given instructions to the parents to provide the details of drivers they engage for transporting their wards to school. We have made the registration of all such vehicles mandatory,“ Khan said.
 
 “In some schools, they follow our instructions. There, they have given separate timings to EIBs and private vehicles to enter the campus and pick up students,“ he said.
 
 MVD officers said that they have started a drive to inspect private vehicles transporting students. “The condition of vehicles, experience and background of the drivers will be checked during the drive,“ Ananthakrishnan said.
 
 But, parents also should be cautious while engaging private vehicles for transporting their wards. They should see that the vehicles and drivers they engage are good, he said.
 
