PATNA: In tune with the proposal of commencement of   from  , the Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL) has started the groundwork for construction of an elevated expressway from  . The new   will be a civil enclave at Bihta airbase. 

 The BSRDCL has initiated the biding process for selection of firm (s) for conducting feasibility study and preparing   (DPR) for development of the dedicated elevated expressway, which would connect the state capital to Bihta airbase, which is located around 25km west of the city.
 
 “While majority of the proposed expressway connecting to Bihta airbase is likely to be elevated, the feasibility study would explore more details of the proposed road. The selected frim would be given four months to conduct the feasibility study and furnish the DPR. The DPR would give the details on the fund estimates, requirement of land acquisition and utility shifting among other aspects of the work,” said a BSRDCL official.
 
 The proposal of upgrading Khagaul-Bihta road into four lane was included in the budget of road construction department for the fiscal 2016- 17 under non-plan head. The four-laning of the existing two-lane road is aimed at improving connectivity of Bihta with Patna. 
 
 Bihta is in fact, set to get three four-lane roads connecting it to Patna. The other two are Patna-Buxar NH-30 and Bihta-Sarmera state highway (SH)-78. Though work on both projects is delayed, sources said National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has lately expedited the work on Patna-Buxar NH-30. According to sources, NHAI has divided the Patna-Buxar NH-30 project in two parts – Patna to Koilwar and Koilwar to Buxar – and separate contracts have been awarded for each.
 
 The high speed transportation would boost real estate activities and overall development of Bihta, which is already labelled as an industrial and educational hub. “As per modern practices, a dedicated expressway is required for vehicular traffic coming to new airports and the four-laning of Saguna Mor-Bihta Road would serve this purpose,” said an aviation expert based in Patna.
 
