PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The turnout in the fringe areas of Pimpri Chinchwad that soared between 70 to 76% has buoyed the ruling   (NCP) and   (BJP). Both claim they will win more seats in this belt.

 The fringe areas comprising 18 villages of Wakad, Punawale, Kiwale, Ravet, Talawade, Chikhali, Moshi, Charholi, Dudulgaon, Dighi and Bopkhel were merged into the   (PCMC) limits in 1997. 
 
 These areas are located near the industrial areas of Pimpri, Chinchwad, Bhosari and others in Pimpri Chinchwad. Many big and small housing schemes are coming up in these areas providing houses to industrial workers due to which the fringe areas are witnessing large-scale urbanization. 
 
 This has increased the population in these areas in the past two decades but they still lack roads, adequate water supply and gardens.
 
 Talawade, Chikhli, Moshi, Charholi, Dudulgaon, Dighi and Bopkhel fall in the Bhosari assembly constituency which was a stronghold of former NCP Bhosari MLA Vilas Lande until the 2014 assembly election. 
 
 So more than 20 corporators in Bhosari assembly constituency are his supporters.  , a distant relative, defeated Lande to be elected as an independent MLA in 2014 who later supported the BJP in 2016. So, around a dozen corporators from NCP, MNS and Shiv Sena resigned to join the BJP in December 2016. This gave the BJP an opportunity to make inroads into the NCP bastions in the wards in Bhosari assembly constituency.
 
 Landge told TOI, “The increased voting percentage in the fringe villages is in favour of BJP. The ruling NCP could not make development of these villages in the past 20 years. So the people have expressed their anger against NCP in this election by voting for BJP.” Lande refused to speak about the impact of the massive surge in voting in fringe areas.
 
 Yogesh Behl, spokesperson for the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of the NCP, said, “The BJP has hurt its loyalists by not granting nominations in the election so they voted against the party. Further, they alienated the common man by taking in NCP leaders and corporators when they are crying hoarse about NCP being corrupt. This increased the vote percentage for NCP.”
 
