
 From the outside, it’s much the same — a replica of the Sanchi Stupa, a squat dome that has been a reassuring fixture for decades on the rapidly changing skyline of Chowringhee. 
 But when the MP   opens today after extensive renovations that stretched for 28 months, you will be hard-pressed to find too many vestiges of the old order. Among the biggest changes is the centrepiece of the daily shows — the projection system. The optomechanical contraption that did duty for 54 years has been replaced by a snazzy   hybrid projection system. So when the planetarium is thrown open on Saturday with six daily shows — two each in English, Bengali and Hindi, starting from 12.30 pm — expect a visual experience like never before. “The audience will have a whole new experience, and not only because of the new projector. There’s also a new gallery, an astro corner, a conference room and special classrooms,” said  , director of the planetarium.
  
  The facility was inaugurated back in 1963 by the then Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. It was and still is the largest planetarium in Asia and the second largest in the world, with laboratories, classrooms and an astronomy gallery that maintains a huge collection of paintings and statues of renowned astronomers. There is also an astronomical observatory equipped with a Celestron C-14 telescope, which has been dismantled for the renovation. “What many people do not know is that the planetarium is also a research institute and a lot of national-level work happens here,” added Duari. The old projector was capable of showing the Kolkata night sky as an exact representation of what one would see with the naked eye. 
  
  But the new projector will deliver much more, from minute visual details of a meteor to the colours of Saturn’s rings.The one-hour show — the English voiceover is by Hollywood star Robert Redford — should leave the audience awestruck. “We also have the option of making it 3D. All we have to do is change the format,” said Duari.
  
  
 Besides the show, the planetarium has a new gallery where six mini domes will show the Kolkata night sky during the six seasons. The gallery also has LED screens, digital charts and models of the surface of   and the moon. There’s also an astro corner that will sell books, memorabilia and even telescopes to budding astronomers. So go ahead, explore the universe!
 
 
