JAIPUR: The state government once again faced uneasy questions over its ‘Resurgent Rajasthan’ claims in the assembly on Monday. The ruling party legislator Sandeep Sharma said 16 MoUs were signed to get investments in Kota but none of these have materialised till date.

 Replying during the question hour, industries minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat said process to execute the MoUs was on. He said there was no government land available around Kota to establish an industrial area but added that existence of industrial areas was not mandatory to execute ‘Resurgent Rajasthan’ MoUs.
 
 Sharma quizzed the industrial minister for adding the eligibility condition of having an ITI diploma to avail benefits of ‘Young Entrepreneurs Incentive Scheme’. Shekhawat reasoned the government raised the upper age limit under the scheme to 45 years and the loan amount to Rs 1.50-cr (up from Rs 90 lakh).
 
 “We are hoping that under this scheme, young entrepreneurs of Rajasthan will be able to invest around Rs 500-cr this year and will be able to generate jobs for 5000 people,” Shekhawat the house.
 
 Food Security Scheme
 
 Food and civil supplies minister Babu Lal Verma too got cornered in the house over the issue of beneficiaries being struck out of the food security scheme list. On the question raised by   legislator Govind Singh Dotasra, BJP legislators too fired a volley of queries at the minister over alleged irregularities in name addition/deduction in the list.
 
 “Adding and deleting the names of beneficiaries is a continuous process. We received 5,80,385 applications of which 2,31,879 were accepted, while others were found to be ineligible under the scheme,” Verma told the house.
 
 Countering the minister, BJP MLAs   and Harlal Kharra alleged that even eligible people were not getting the benefits and this was bringing bad name to the government.
 
 Area based power charges
 
 Power minister   assured the house that rate of providing electricity connections would now be based on whether the household falls in a municipal corporation, Nagar Palika, Nagar Parishad, panchayat samiti or gram panchayat.
 
 The minister was replying to an attention motion moved by BJP MLA   to demand reduction in electricity connection charges in residential areas developed by colonisers in small cities, towns and rural areas.
 
 Illegal slaughter houses
 
 Outside the house, NPP legislator Kirori Lal Meena demanded action against illegal slaughter houses in the state. MLA Gyan Dev Ahuja also made the same demand. Later, Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoti told reporters that a drive would be initiated in April to identify illegal slaughter houses, if any, in the city and take action against them.
 
