ALLAHABAD: Now unemployed youth of the city could start their own business by opening   outlets at their house or shops to sell postal or philatelic items. The postal department has decided to extend franchise scheme to people or institutions through which outlets could be opened at every 1 km in urban areas and 3 km in rural areas.

 Universities, schools or professional colleges could also apply for opening the outlets for the students.
 
 As part of the scheme, institution or youngsters could apply for opening the outlet. They could earn from 5% to 40% commission on the sale of each registered article, speed post article or philatelic items like special day covers, commemorative stamps, special calendars or mugs. 
 
 The postal department would provide software, display board and other logistics while the individuals have to only arange for computer, printer and a spacious room.
 
 Senior post master RN   said, “The post offices have started a number of operations like sale of philatelic items and gift shops. So, it has been decided to franchise the basic services.” He said that the move has also been taken in view of the increasing queues at post offices with each passing year.
 
 The unemployed youth would be benefited as despite a network of over 1.55 lakh post offices, there is a constant demand of post offices in remote areas. The franchise outlet would also function as an agent for postal life insurance. The people working at the outlets would be trained by postal department. 
 
 “The franchisee will be responsible for only selling the products while department will deliver and transport the items. A team will survey the viability of the franchisee so as to bring sufficient returns for the department,” Yadav added. 
 
 He said educational institutions apart from owner of upcoming new industrial centres, upcoming urban townships, special economlc zones, major highway projects apart from others could also apply for the same. The franchisee would have to sign a memorandum of agreement with the department.
 
 
