NEW DELHI: A man was charred and three others received severe burn injuries when a huge fire gutted more than 40   near south Delhi’s   on Saturday night. The blaze started at a godown nearby and soon spread to Begampur village slum. 

 More than 30 fire tenders were pressed into service and it took nearly eight hours to douse the flames.
 
 The deceased was identified as Ashok Gupta, a scrap dealer from Bihar. He was asleep in the godown when the fire broke out. Gupta got trapped as he was unable to unlock the door in time. 
 
 Residents said six cylinders exploded in the slum, resulting in the fire spreading quickly. 
 
 Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia visited the site. The CM announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for Gupta’s family. He also announced a compensation of Rs 25,000 each for those whose shanties were gutted in the fire.
 
 “The   would be treated for free and all possible help would be given by the government. Financial compensation as per government policy would also be given,” he said.
 
 Some residents complained about lack of drinking water as the little they had saved was used in trying to douse the flames. Government officials who accompanied the CM were asked to provide relief to the residents.
 
 According to fire officials, Vijay Yadav, an auto driver, sustained severe burns while trying to help douse the fire. He was admitted to RML Hospital where he was battling for his life. Yadav’s wife, Pushpa, recalled how he risked his own life to save others. “We were later told that a cylinder exploded right next to where my husband was standing,” she said. 
 
 Some residents complained that fire tenders took a long time to arrive at the spot. Fire officials said haphazardly parked vehicles on the approach road made their task tough. “We received a call around 2.20 am and rushed more than 30 fire tenders to the spot,” said a Delhi Fire Service officer. He added that an electrical short-circuit could be responsible for the fire. Another reason that the fire spread quickly was the presence of inflammable material at the slum. Police said most residents of the slum were scrap dealers.
 
 Another person, Ajay Kumar, was injured while helping out others. “We have repeatedly told scrap dealers to stop using the area as a storage unit, but they don’t listen to us. The godown was filled with flammable material, which made it tough to control the fire,” said Kumar, a daily wager.
 
