Nagpur: In the first initiative of its kind, telecom service provider Vodafone India has completed a project of planting three lakh trees in the wildlife corridor between Pench and Kanha tiger reserves.

 The telecom service provider and Grow-Trees.com, UN’s India planting partner, implemented the project in 300 hectares on forest and community land falling in the tiger corridor over the last three years.
 
 Ashish Chandra, business head for Maharashtra & Goa, Vodafone India, and Bikrant Tiwary, CEO of Grow-Trees.com, said the mega project was initiated in August 2014.
 
 Grow-Trees has planted 21,78,000 trees so far through its website in projects across India, with support from over 300 companies and thousands of individuals.
 
 “The Kanha-Pench greening project involved planting a lakh saplings in 100 hectares every year for three years. In the just concluded final phase, a lakh saplings were planted near Karwahi near Turia (MP Pench). The first two phases were implemented at Rata and Dhodhara villages near Kanha,” said Chandra.
 
 “While doing business, one of our goals is to add value to society. This unique project has enabled Vodafone to offset 33 million kg of carbon footprint generated by our offices across the country. Now we have generated equal amount of oxygen by planting three lakh trees,” Chandra added.
 
 The project has also helped create livelihood opportunities, enabled reforestation and facilitated habitat connectivity in tiger breeding areas between Kanha and Pench reserves. This is a win-win proposition for all — the organization, community and environment, exemplifying the true spirit of sustainability, he said.
 
 This project has created about 25,000 workdays of direct jobs, mainly for women and tribal communities inhabiting the area, in addition to supporting several allied livelihood generating activities such as farming, fruit and honey gathering etc on a sustained basis.
 
 Tiwary said, “Around 45% of India’s land is degraded, primarily due to deforestation, unsustainable agricultural practices, mining and excessive groundwater extraction. More than two-thirds of this can be regenerated and our endeavour is to facilitate this by providing planting opportunities to individual and corporate customers.”
 
 “This novel project in strengthening wildlife corridor and enlarge wildlife habitats, that too by a private firm, is the biggest till date in the country. The planting process on site has been taken care by our local planting partners, and in the long term these locals will ensure survival of trees as they are going to reap benefits in the form of forest produce,” said Tiwary.
 
 Since Kanha-Pench corridor is already under threat from various development projects, such initiatives are needed to ensure population viability and habitat connectivity between different breeding areas. Without strong linkages, tiger populations isolated within individual tiger reserves face a higher risk of extinction due to poaching and loss of gene flow over generations.
 
 
