Mysuru: To assess the learning levels of children according to the   development,   will conduct a National Achievement Survey in September. It will be conducted under three different categories, Class III, Class V and Class VIII. The learning gaps will be identified to provide feedback to students and schools.

 Y Sreekanth, principal, Regional Institute of Education, Mysuru, said, “The  , Mysuru, a constituent unit of NCERT, has the mandate of catering to the needs of the southern region in school education. In terms of quality education, largely the southern region is ahead of other regions in enrolment, retention and students' achievement. However, within the region and across types of schools, including rural areas, there is a wide variation in educational quality. We need to identify low-performing pockets and undertake necessary measures to enhance quality of   in collaboration with states.” 
 
 He added, “For the first time, NCERT, as an academic authority at the national level, has developed Learning Outcomes which have been incorporated in the Right to Education (RTE). This document in Hindi and English has been translated into different southern languages in collaboration with the state departments of education, and has been shared with them. The National Achievement Survey (NAS) will be based on these Learning Outcomes. Also, for the first time, NAS will be conducted not just state as a unit but at the district level, thus providing a decentralised picture of the quality of school education. Earlier, we never had objectives but now with learning outcomes, it becomes amply clear in academic subject areas the goals and objectives for each class. The learning outcomes prepared for class I to VIII in academic subject areas will be the basis for monitoring the progress of students. Once students know what they have to learn and teachers know what they need to teach and teacher educators know how the progress has to be monitored, there will be much clarity. For example, when Pratham conducted the study, they mentioned that class 8 were not upto the level of class 5 students; so these problems will not be there once learning outcomes are implemented strictly. Another important aspect of learning outcome is more emphasis will be given to competence than content.”
 
 It can be brought to light that when India conducted a programme for international student’s assessment in 2009 among 76 countries, India stood last but one. The RIE will support states in developing curricular competencies across subject areas. 
 
 A three-day workshop is being conducted at RIE, Mysuru from July 10 to 12 which will further be taken up at the district, block and school levels by the states. “Learning Outcomes and National Achievement Survey will have a positive impact on secondary education. If our country participates in an international testing such as Programme for International Students' Assessment (PISA), the performance is expected to be better, as preparedness will be there” added Sreekanth, who took charge as principal of RIE, Mysuru a few days ago.
 
 
