NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   said on Saturday that the BJP does not believe in votebank politics and the party's sole agenda was the country's development.

 "For us, governance is not about votes or winning elections. The priority is the well-being of the nation. Our culture is different as for us, country is bigger than party," he said.
 
 The Prime Minister was addressing a gathering of farmers in Shahanshahpur on the outskirts of Varanasi and enumerated schemes introduced by the government for the benefit of UP's small-scale agrarians. 
 
 "Doubling of farmers income is an area in which significant work is being done. Schemes like soil health card are benefitting farmers," PM Modi said.
 
 Earlier, he'd visited the Pashudhan Arogya Mela. Commending UP chief minister   for organizing the cattle mela, PM Modi said it was a testimony to the state's commitment to cattle protection and animal health. He also criticized previous governments and said they hadn't focused on developing the dairy sector.
 
 "I want to congratulate the   Government and especially CM Adityanath for organizing the Pashudhan Arogya Mela. The focus on animal health is commendable. This focus will benefit the farmers across the state," he said.
 
 Referring to the mega animal fair being organised for the first time in Shahanshahpur , he said "these animals don't go to cast their ballot. They are not anyone's voters."
 
 Recalling the wonders cooperatives had done for the dairy sector in  , PM Modi said the cooperative system should be adopted and encouraged in Uttar Pradesh as well.
 
 "Let us build on the strides we have made in the dairy sector. Cooperatives can help in this regard, as they have in parts of the nation," he said.
 
 PM Modi is on a two-day visit to his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, his first since the BJP stormed to power in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in March this year. After flagging off the   connecting Varanasi to Vadodara in Gujarat, the Prime Minister gifted development projects worth Rs 1,000 crore to India's most populous state.
 
 Making a big pitch for the Swaccha Bharat mission, PM Modi said cleanliness must take root in our habits. He also recounted a recent experience: while he'd been helping in toilet construction at a village close to Varanasi, the people there had informed him of their decision to make the village open defecation free.
 
 "'Swachhta' has to become 'Swabhav', it is our collective responsibility. A cleaner India will also be a healthier India," he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
