VIRUDHUNAGAR: Ahead of the ‘Aadi Amavasai’ that falls on Sunday (July 23) thousands of pilgrims have started thronging the Sri   Swamy and Sri Sandhana Mahalingam Swamy temples situated atop the   in   district.

 However, this year, not all pilgrims would not be able to spend the night there or stay for additional days due to water scarcity that is prevailing on top of the hill. Instead, devotees who climb up, have to alight the same day.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Virudhunagar superintendent of police M Rajarajan said, “There has been water scarcity all the way up to the hilltop from the Thaniparai foothill. Only 1.2 lakh litres of water has been stored in the two temples, which will come for two or three days. There are some fountains in some places on the hill, most of which have become dry. Hence, we advise pilgrims not to stay there and return the same day.”
 
 On Thursday, 5,000 people went to the hill, of which about 200 only stayed back for the night. On Friday, about 15,000 people climbed up the hill, of which a few hundred people alone stayed back. There are about 40,000 people in the foothills, the SP said. 
 
 Both the temples – Sundara Mahalingam and Sandhana Mahalingam temples are famous for Lord Shiva devotees, many of whom throng during the ‘Aadi Amavasai’ (new moon), Chitra Pournami (full moon) and Maha Shivrathri. The hill, which is 5.5km away from the Thaniparai foothill, also has grizzled squirrel sanctuary. 
 
 “During  , the temple festival will normally take place for 10 days. There was no restriction in climbing up and getting down from the hill and providing free food (Annadhanam). This year, all that has changed,” said S Anandkumar, a devotee from Madurai. 
 
 Another devotee R Kumaravel said the number of days has been cut short for six days from July 20 and the timing for climbing up the hill is from 6am to 4pm. Annadhanam has been barred. Besides, police are advising us to get down the same day.
 
 However, Virudhunagar collector told TOI that all steps are taken for the welfare of the devotees. “Though, there is water scarcity, drinking water facility has been provided at every 500m on the hill path. The devotees need to ensure that they are not wasting drinking water,” the collector said.
 
 He also said that for the welfare of devotees, temporary parking lots have been set up in seven places in 14 acres in Thaniparai, where more than 1,000 vehicles could be parked. For Amavasai, 200 special buses would ply from Rajajpalayam, Srivilliputur, Sivakasi, Sattur, Virudhunagar, T Kallupatti, Usilampatti and Madurai, the collector said. 
 
 People will be allowed to Sadhuragiri till July 25.
 
 
