Gurgaon: There is lack of an efficient public transport system in Gurgaon, but residents of   in Sector 110 are the worst hit with no proper roads connecting them to the city.   and lack of streetlights are also persistent in the housing society.

 According to the residents, the only road present near the society has also been dug up for a flyover construction, leaving them with no other option but to travel through New Palam Vihar and the railway crossing, a narrow lane that gets congested during peak hours, to reach their homes.
 
 “Either we take the railway crossing and come to Najafgarh Road, which is also undergoing some construction work, and reach Sector 110 or go to Bijwasan, Chawla or take the   expressway to reach Gurgaon,” said  , who works with British Telecom and is also a road safety officer. 
 
 To make things worse, there are no autorickshaws or shared autos available in the area making it impossible for the residents to commute. Only cabs ply in this area, but since the flyover construction began even they avoid taking this road. Around 500 families living in the society have to rely on their own vehicles. 
 
 Yasheesh Yadav, a businessman living in the society has his office in New Palam Vihar, which is 2.5 km away from his residence. However, it takes him almost an hour to reach there. “If I walk to my office, I would reach in less time than when I drive. While driving, I have to cross Dwarka and Palam Vihar and then reach my office, which easily takes me more than an hour,” Yadav said.
 
 Besides, the residents also suffer from improper supply of water in their flats. Some claim they regularly need to pay from their pocket to get water tankers to store water in their tanks. 
 
 When contacted, a spokesperson for   refused to comment on the condition of the road, but said, “Mahindra Lifespaces is one of the leading real estate development companies in India, with a focus on customer centric practices. Our team at Aura is engaging with residents of the project and providing them with assistance in water supply. The issue on limited supply of water is not specific to Aura; it pertains to several parts of Gurgaon and Dwarka expressway. We have arranged for water tankers to supply potable water, in compliance with occupation certificate conditions.” 
 
 The residents also say there is no hospital in the vicinity. In case of an emergency, they face a lot of difficulty to reach the nearest hospital that is located in New Palam Vihar. 
 
 Security is also a nagging issue here. “There is only one PCR van for the entire area. We want that there should be more patrolling in the evening as the stretch has no streetlights. Women feel scared to venture out after sunset,” said Suman Dahiya, a homemaker and an RWA member.
 
 
