AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister   will again be in Gujarat, this time for two days, October 7 and 8, during which he will travel to Saurashtra, North Gujarat and Central Gujarat, and is likely to address a total of seven or eight lakh people at four different places.

 According to the official schedule received by the Gujarat government from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the PM has confirmed participation in programmes at Dwarka, Rajkot, Vadnagar (his home town in Mehsana district) and Bharuch. He may visit Somnath during his Dwarka visit as well. The government of India has given final clearance for the Rs 962-crore 3.75km permanent bridge between Okha and Bet Dwarka, which is major pilgrimage centre visited by lakhs of Shree Krishna devotees every year. Bet Dwarka island is believed to be the seat of Lord Krishna's kingdom. Located near Okha port, Bet Dwarka is currently inaccessible by road and pilgrims use a ferry service run by the Gujarat Maritime Board, which is not available after sundown. The PM will lay the foundation stone for the new bridge on October 7. On the same day , the PM will lay the foundation stones for a new Rs 2,500-crore international airport at Rajkot and the Rs 2,600-crore Ahmedabad-Rajkot highway development project.The PM will also address a major public rally near Chotila. On October 8, PM Modi is likely to inaugurate the new building of IIT  . He will then visit his home town, Vadnagar in Mehsana, where he will inaugurate the new Rs 500-crore civil hospital and medical college. He will also lay the foundation stone for the Rs 1,211-crore Devi Ni Mori International Buddhist complex near Sham laji in Aravalli district. At Vadnagar, he will dedicate the redeveloped Sharmistha lake to the people and inaugurate other public works, including the redevelopment of Vadnagar railway station, where he once sold tea as a teenager. Before the elec tions, to woo voters in Bharuch district -the home turf of Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Congress president So nia Gandhi -the PM will lay the foundation stone of the Rs 3,150 crore Bhadbhut barrage project. He may also lay the foundation stone for the Rs 650crore Dahej-Ghogha Ro-Ro ferry service.
 
 
 
 
 Gandhinagar:   national president Amit Shah on Friday had series of meetings with MLAs and ticket seekers from Ahmedabad district.Shah met Daskroi MLA Babu Patel, who has recently faced a lot of opposition within the party. Shah also met other ticket seekers like former Ahmedabad mayor Amit Shah.
 
 Shah had a long meeting with junion home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja and a few IPS officers like Himanshu Shukla. Shah also met state unit president Jitu Vaghani and party in-charge Bhupendra Yadav. Shah left for Delhi in the afternoon. He will return for the BJP's Gaurav Yatra, scheduled to be launched from Porbandar on October 2.
 
