It's a known thing that several people have preconceived notions about  .

 Given the impressive lineage she has, Shruti is not just expected to be a stupendous actress, but also judged constantly for what she does or speaks. After bagging a role in  's magnum opus,  , Shruti recently opted out of the project. While several stories are being circulated within the industry , the actress is in no mood to talk about it anymore. Though she has put in so much effort for the period drama by taking up training in sword fighting, Shruti says that she doesn't regret her decision, to not be a part of the film.“I never regret anything that I learn -I am a student for life. The most exciting thing for me is to keep learning. I have always been like that and I am most excited when I learn something new. Regarding Sangamithra, I really don't want to comment anything as it happened in the past. I learnt sword-fighting, which I really enjoyed, and that's the takeaway for me from this experience,“ she tell us, while sitting in her cozy office on Eldams Road.
 
 After she decided to opt out of this film, Shruti says that she has also learned to be choosy about the films she will do in the future. “I have done so many films in the last seven years. I have been working on three to four films in a year and in three different languages. But now, I have come to a stage where I only want to do things that I really like and also concentrate on music. For sometime, I had to completely put music on hold to achieve things in films.
 
 As an actor, I want to work with talented people, -interesting, new and experienced. Though I will focus more about the content, it will also be about the people whom I really want to work with.“
 
 So, what does she really look for when she reads the script? “The character and the story, but unfortunately that aren't always enough. You always need the right people to mount the film,“ she points out. Shruti also says that she has had odd experiences of reading something and shooting for a different thing altogether while working on certain films. She recalls, “I have experienced it several times. I am quite straightforward. But I don't think it goes down well with people. Sometimes, I go up and say , `I am sorry, I am confused.' If I don't get an answer, I finish my job and move on.“
 
 Sometimes, she believes this behaviour of hers makes one develop pre-conceived notions about her. One of the common things you hear is that `Shruti is a very difficult person to deal with'. Ask her what makes people think so and she's quick to respond, “I am sure you will agree with me as women -if you are straightforward, you are considered difficult. If I was difficult, I would not have been able to do so many films in different languages. In any industry , there will be people who like and dislike you. That, honestly , is not my problem beyond a point. You know what? I have even asked people what they mean when they say I am a difficult person. They say that I'm a little different. When I ask them what makes them think so, I do not get a proper answer. I can't help it and gave up long ago.“
 
 But does she think that women, in gen eral, are not taken seriously in our society when they voice their concerns? “I have been raised to stand up for myself and ask the right questions. That's how my father raised me. But I have also been taught to really trust, respect talent and people. My father has never asked me to respect people just for the sake of it.“
 
 Shruti also adds that she is waiting to explore roles which deal with the issues Indian women face often. “I want to play characters that are akin to a modern girl, which we haven't seen enough on screen. I think Indian women are such an interesting mix of modernity and values. I am waiting to play such roles as I haven't seen them much,“ she smiles. In fact, she will be seen essaying one such role in the long-awaited Sabaash Naidu. She says, “I play a fun-loving and rebellious character. Why we aren't talking much about the plot or the story is for a reason -for people to come and watch it in theatres. A few of my scenes were quite challenging, but I don't want to reveal much about it.“
 
 And working with her father, doesn't really translate to be chilled out session for the actress.
 
 “For me, it doesn't matter, if it's family or not.When I am in work mode, then it is all about work,“ says Shruti, adding, “Working with appa as a director was wonderful. He is very clear about his vision. So, he gives the actor so much space to explore and then take the best out of their per sonality . It was amazing. But I am glad that he has never shouted at me. He is happy about my work.“
 
 But considering the film is tak ing a long time to be made, espe cially after Kamal's accident and later he stepping into the director's shoes for the film, Shruti says that she is willing to wait. “Appa is busy with Bigg Boss. Once that's done, we will get back to shooting as only very few portions are left. Unexpected things happen, right? There are certain things that are not in our control and Sabaash Naidu is an example of that. Having said that, whatever we have shot has been really good, organised and I hope audiences will really enjoy the film,“ says the actress.
 
 Talking about the reality show hosted by her dad, she says she doesn't follow the show, but makes it a point to see her father's episodes. “I was in London when the show started airing, so I didn't get a chance to see the first few episodes. I saw a bit of papa's hosting. People have different perceptions about him because he is `Kamal Haasan'. But my friends find him chilled out, relaxed, sweet and a friendly man. I think that came across in all the questions he asked the contestants. He was really casual and being himself. I thought that was very nice,“ she says.
 
 Shruti, who went to Cannes recently , observes that that the festival was all about fashion. “Honestly , it was all about fashion, lots of pretty people and nice scenery .
 
 But I did catch up on Neil's (Gaiman) film as he invited me for the premiere,“ she says. Talking about her association with him, Shruti says, “He is an amazing writer. I have been a fan of his work for years. We met on Twitter. He is a wonderful writer and a nice person. I am just really happy that I could meet my hero.
 
 I want appa and him to meet. I would be really ex cited to see these two interesting people chat.“ Shruti is still guarded when it comes to her personal life. When probed about keeping in touch with Gautami or her daughter, she says that she isn't in touch with them. Ask her about her special someone and she says, “I never talk about my per sonal life. From the time when I was born, to where I went to school and to what I wear, every one has known everything about my life. At least now, I want my personal life to be personal.“ 
 
