With his muscle power (pun not intended), he can squeeze bozos like lemons. But beneath the tough exterior, lies an emotional man who can’t hold back tears. From being a sidekick in the movies to a go-to character actor and producer, Sonu Sood has come a long way. BT had a tete -a tete with him about his latest release, 'Kung Fu Yoga', influential showbiz friends and a newfound sense of wisdom. Excerpts…

 
 There’s a sense of fancy that people attach to our profession. I have larger apartments in some upmarket pockets of the city, but this is the first house I bought. I live here because I feel closer to my parents -- they lived here when they were alive. So, nothing matches the sense of attachment I feel for it.
 
 
 Very! It was a big feat for my team and me to promote the film, distribute it and make it Jackie Chan’s widest release in India. The onus was on the team and me. I was stressed because even as a legend, he was so professional. Yes, but when   said, ‘Well done, brother’, it felt like I had done something right. 
 
 
 (Cuts in) Many years ago, I boarded an express train to Mumbai on a chaalu ticket. I didn’t even have money to make a reservation. But today, I can afford to send a private jet to fetch Jackie, one of the world’s greatest stars, to India. I single-handedly managed his stay and a lavish event to celebrate the film and him. Life has come a long way. I wish that my parents were around to see this. To answer your question, yes, there is a sense of achievement that I managed something so big. 
 
 
 I was just happy to see a humble legend sitting next to me. When I was flying to Beijing for the shoot, I watched 'Police Story' on the flight. That was also directed by   with Jackie in the lead. It felt surreal that I was going to working with the same team. In 2007, I’d said in an interview that I wish Jackie works with me… It came true. 
 
 
 Maybe. I’m told that I’m too humble for my profession. I am supposed to be arrogant, but I can’t do that. I can act only when the camera rolls. It’s amazing how most people in this industry act even when the camera is not rolling. They act all the time; in fact, they are better actors off the camera. I don’t want to get into their shoes. 
 
 
 Not really. I asked Stanley why he had chosen me and he said that he wanted someone without any baggage, someone who would give the film time. He wanted an actor who’d surrender without any question. I remember I hadn’t asked a single question when I was offered the film. I had a video call with the team much later. 
 
 
 I work across languages now. 
 
 
 
 I can be assured that I will not be alone in my hour of need. This industry is about survivors, not achievers. It’s like holding your breath under water. You let go and you drown. No one else can do that for you, right? I know how to hold my breath till I reach the shore. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
