NEW DELHI: Rajiv   station, the busiest in the network, witnessed scenes of panic during the morning rush hours on Wednesday following a spark and what sounded like mini explosions in a train.

 At 10.17am, passengers on a train on the Yellow line (HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) — coming from the Central Secretariat side — saw the spark in its rear part and also heard two minor blasts. Smoke also started coming out from the rear part of the train, causing panic. 
 
 As the train reached the packed   station, all commuters were immediately evacuated as a safety measure. “Passengers were accommodated in the next train within eight minutes,” said a   (DMRC) spokesperson. None of the passengers was injured.
 
 The incident, however, resulted in disruption of train services on the busy line during the morning rush hours. In stead of the peak-hour frequency of two and a half minutes, the next train towards Samaypur Badli was available only after eight minutes. Normal train services remained affected for about half an hour.
 
 The spark and the explosions were caused perhaps by a short circuit in the airconditioning system. DMRC, however, remained tightlipped about the actual reason. “A minor smoke was reported from the airconditioning of the last coach of a train heading towards Samaypur Badli,” the spokesperson said. “The train has been sent to the depot for further analysis and investigation. Train services are running normal on the line,” he added.
 
 Short circuits and overheating resulting in smoke coming out of trains is not an unusual issue on the   lines. In December last year, a train had to be evacuated after smoke started billowing from its last coach at Patel Nagar station on the snag-prone Blue line (Noida/Vaishali to Dwarka/Dwarka Sector 21).
 
 Incidents of technical snags disrupting services have become common in the past one year, particularly on the Blue line that carries the largest number of commuters in the entire Delhi Metro network — more than 10 lakh per day.
 
 
