PUNE: In a city where cinema, drama and politics enjoy a symbiotic relationship, election campaigns are incomplete without the participation of film stars.

 Actors from the small screen, like Devdutta Nage of ‘Jai Malhar’ fame, as well as big screen stars, including Sai Tamhankar, Manasi Naik and Sanskruti Balgude, would hit the campaign trail soon garnering votes for political parties. 
 
 Most parties are currently busy scheduling the dates and areas for the stars to campaign. The actors are charging anywhere between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh per day for campaigning.
 
 With just about two weeks left for the voting day, candidates have decided to turn to popular on-screen faces to help them with their campaigns. Officials from political parties said the party itself had not hired any film or television celebrities, but individual candidates were free to do so. 
 
 An official said, “Candidates who are contesting from new wards or those who are totally new in the fray have taken the support of popular faces as the common man recognises these celebrities more. Some veteran candidates may also bring in stars from the film industry purely as a campaign stunt.”
 
 Independent candidate Suraj Bhosale said, “We have taken the availability dates from the three leads of TV serial ‘Jai Maljhar,’ and we will now plan our campaign accordingly. Celebrities add value to our campaigns; although it’s an expensive affair, I think it will pay off.”
 
 The city unit chief of  , Yogesh Gogawale, said, “Individual candidates have tied up with film stars for campaigning on their own at their ward levels. We have   on board, who would be campaigning for the party during the elections. With just 15 days in hand before voting day, the days ahead will be packed with several engagements. We are launching our campaign from Monday as candidates take oath on Sinhagad fort. We have sent our list of star campaigners, including party veterans and senior leaders who will come to the city in the next 15 days, to the Mumbai office.”
 
 Gogawale said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and other party leaders like  , Manohar Parrikar, Venkaiah Naidu, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi would join the campaign.
 
 ‘Jai Malhar’ actor Esha Keskar, who is also a Puneite, said, “Before agreeing to support any candidate’s campaign, I am studying profiles of candidates. Only if I really feel they are deserving would I support them.”
 
 City unit chief of  , Vandana Chavan, said, “With constraints on sabhas, we are limiting social gatherings. Besides, we would rather depend on social media this time to lead our campaigns. Of course, big sabhas would be held, where party leaders come for campaigning, but otherwise we would rather like to have media interactions and live streaming, among other technology aids, to reach out to voters. For us, star campaigners would be our own senior leaders.” NCP has also planned to launch its campaign on Monday from Saras Baug.
 
 Another familiar face from television, ‘Tujhyat Jeev Rangala’ actor Hardeek Joshi, said, “Yes, I will be campaigning from next week onwards, but I am yet to have final talks with candidates, so I cannot reveal the names yet.”
 
