Suffering from  , a physical condition that has rendered him immobile,   never faced too many hardships, thanks to his  

 Till Sunday happened. The 23-year-old techie was left helpless and hapless upon landing at the John F Kennedy International Airport in New York after he discovered that his motorised travel aid had been held back by Delhi airport’s security staff without his knowledge.
 
 Nalam, an IIT-Bombay graduate who reached the US to join Microsoft in Seattle where he has landed a job after completing MS in computer science from Columbia University, flew from Chennai to New York via Delhi on two   flights — AI-43 and AI 101.
 
 While the wheelchair made it to the flight from Chennai to Delhi (AI-43), it was surprisingly not loaded on to the aircraft (AI 101) from Delhi to New York.
 
 The security personnel at the airport did not allow the wheelchair on the flight, ostensibly because the batteries had not been taken out.
 
 Speaking to Mumbai Mirror, an enraged Nalam said, “No, you simply cannot leave behind a passenger’s motorised wheelchair halfway across the world just because you ‘think’ the batteries haven’t been disconnected. The least you could do was to contact the passenger before the flight took off.”
 
 Nalam said that the motorised wheelchair was his sole support for moving independently.
 
 “It is more than legs for me. Do you leave behind your aircraft’s landing gear because it didn’t clear security?” he asked.
 
 The youth, who was accompanied by his father Rama Rao Nalam, station commander at Indian Coast Guards station at Mandapam near Rameshwaram, had a tough time getting out of JFK airport.
 
 “Air India gave me a temporary manual wheelchair as they didn’t have a motorised one. It was very difficult for my dad as he had to handle the baggage and me, whereas I independently steer the motorised wheelchair,” said Nalam, who spends $165 (Rs 11, 000) per day to hire the wheelchair.
 
 The issue has reached the ears of Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation Jayant Sinha, who has asked the Air Seva team to immediately look into Nalam’s complaint.
 
 An Air India spokesperson confirmed that the wheelchair was held back by airport security in Delhi and not the airline. “The wheelchair is now on its way to New York without the batteries. It is not clear how the batteries will be sent,” the spokesperson said.
 
 Nalam refused to buy any argument, as a battery-less wheelchair would be of no use to him.
 
 “Those are dry, gel batteries that don’t spill and are allowed on domestic and international flights. As a frequent flier, I am well aware of civil aviation rules. They (the airline) also didn’t let me know about holding back the wheelchair until the flight had taken off from Delhi,” he said.
 
