Kolkata: Age may not be on his side but   hasn’t given up on his dream. A resident of   of Krishnaganj in Nadia, Halder will appear in the medical joint examination for the 17th time next month. 

 Halder is 48 but still dreams of becoming a doctor. The   judgment, which removed the age cap on candidates appearing for   2017, has come as a relief to Halder and many like him who are now gearing up to take the exam on May 7 with a new vigour.
 
 Halder lives in an obscure village that doesn’t have doctors in the vicinity. Even for minor illnesses, villagers have to visit a primary health centre 20kms away. The area has no medical support for pregnant women. It is to help his neighbours that Halder has decided to pursue a career in medicine. At the moment, he is a farmer ploughing a hired agricultural land.
 
 Halder has been attempting to crack the medical examination since 2000. However, his dreams could not be realised since every time his rank has only been good enough for a seat in private medical colleges or dental colleges that are far too expensive for him. “It would have been impossible for me to pay such a huge amount of tuition fee and study. But I have kept my dream alive. Every year, I have found a berth but never have I been able to make it to a government medical college,” said Halder.
 
 The Supreme Court decision allows him to keep pursuing his dream. His plans had suddenly had come to a halt after   decided to put an age bar. On Friday, the verdict has again opened a new avenue for him. “Now I am all the more determined to crack the exam and this time I am determined to bag a government college seat. 
 
 “Had I got the chance to concentrate only on studies, I may have done better. Last year, I had dedicated three months to preparations by taking off from my job of a daily farmer. I had gone to Kolkata and stayed in a rented accommodation and studied for three months. I had achieved a better score as well as rank. This year, too, I plan to shift to Kolkata and concentrate on the preparations till May 7,” said Halder. 
 
 His family of five comprises Halder’s two daughters, a son, his wife and mother. His family is his biggest support, he said. “They are extremely encouraging and are my strongest support system in my journey to become a doctor,” Halder added. 
 
 Halder will be filling up the online form on Monday. “I had appeared in   in 1986 from   with a 59.2% score. Thereafter, I had to take a long break due to the financial constraints. I was a topper in school. Yet, I had failed to pursue higher secondary immediately after completing Madhyamik. I again rejoined my studies in 1998 and then competed HS from National Open Schooling in 2000. 
 
 “The Supreme Court’s decision will give hope to a lot of such candidates who have still now kept their dreams alive. I will extend all possible help to him to see Halder coming out with flying colours,” said Maity, a former teacher at SSKM.
 
 
