CHANDIGARH: The benchmark of a strapping Punjabi with flexed-and-ripped-muscles may be a thing of the past. In fact, the state of health of people in the ‘food bowl of the nation’ presents a grim picture of stunted growth and wasting among children below 5 years, according to the   (NFHS) report released in April this year.

 Children under five years are severely stunted (low height for a particular age) and the number of such children has grown from 25.7% in 2005-06 to 27.6% in 2015-16 in cities and towns, putting more kids at risk of becoming anaemic in future.
 
 In fact, they are facing a double whammy. Apart from losing out on height, more Punjabi children under five years are wasting (low weight for height).
 
 The percentage of such wasted kids has risen sharply from 9.2% in 2005-06 to 15.6% in 2015-16.
 
 In fact, even adults are turning anaemic. The number of anaemic women in   has shot up from 38% to 53.5% in the last decade. The males, who are bigger bread-earners according to employment rates, are worse off. Their number has doubled from 13.6% in 2005 to 25.9% in 2015-16.
 
 The statistics raise a question mark over state's popular healthcare schemes and support over the last decade to the children of farmers and city's middle class and urban families.
 
 While India accounts for 33% of stunted children in the world, the latest NFHS report of Punjab is a reflection of the debt-ridden state, dismal economy and poverty in a state that ushered in the green revolution in the country.
 
 As part of   (NHM), Punjab has been receiving Rs 2,000-4000 crore per year for countrywide schemes such as Janani-Shishu Suraksha Karyakram,   and state-sponsored schemes such as Balri Rakshak Yojna.
 
 The same report has also raised an alarm over more obese women in cities (1.1% more) and men (4.3%) as compared to 2005, showing an unhealthy lifestyle in Punjab.
 
 According to paediatricians, both stunting and wasting are the most prevalent form of under-nutrition yet they goes largely unrecognized.
 
 "Poor breast-feeding, insufficient complimentary food availability under national schemes are the reasons behind this. Food habits in cities have changed, leading to less intake of iron, vitamins, and calcium. Unpalatable foods at government hospitals for kids and mothers is another concern," said Madhu, a former PGI pediatrician.
 
 
