NAGPUR: After keeping suspense for over four months, Indian   finally released its placements figures for its pioneer batch on its website. Last month, TOI had carried a report stating that not even 50% of students of the premier institution started with much fanfare by Union minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis were placed. It was contested by   officials.

 On Monday, IIM Placement Cell released an interim report on its website saying it had managed to place 27 student out total 53 in the first batch of Post Graduate Programme (PGP). Two students opted for fellowship with Tata Trusts to contribute to social sector while one opted out of placements. Out of 27 students placed, two are in same industries where they had interned. 
 
 The report stated placements were still underway and final report would be published once all students were recruited. 
 
 Later, IIM Ahmedabad communication manager Deepak Bhatt also sent an e-mail confirming that 23 students were yet to be placed. Ironically, IIM-N officials are keeping things under wraps since last four months and not allowing even the students to speak to the media.
 
 TOI had been consistently seeking replies to its queries in this regard from Bhatt since last four months through e-mails, phone calls and What’sApp messages. He kept delaying the matter while only giving assurances.
 
 Monday’s mail was sent only after TOI contacted him. He informed about 40 companies visited the campus of which 40% were from Nagpur. “The average and median figures of current offers is Rs13.05 lakh per annum (LPA) and Rs12   respectively, with a minimum offer of Rs9 LPA. The median for top and next quartile for students currently stands at Rs19.5 LPA and Rs13 LPA,” he said.
 
 The report on website mentioned the companies offered the students several challenging roles in various industry verticals. Those include consulting, marketing, analytics, finance, operations, and strategy.
 
 The industry spread are — Banking, Financial services and Insurance (BFSI) (30%), infrastructure (19%), IT/ITeS (11%), manufacturing (7%), public sector (7%), media and advertising (7%), retail (11%), consulting (4%), and not-for-profit organization (4%). With the process still on, the figures are likely to change.
 
 “With many companies lined up to visit the campus, the placement process is still going on. The process started with positive response from two companies that offered pre-placement offers to students who had performed exceptionally at the respective organizations during their summer internship last year,” the interim report mentioned.
 
