 Hello, I am in a long distance relationship with my beau, who happens to be serving in the Indian navy ! He's an engineer whereas I am a geophysicist! 

 He's 23 and I am 22-years-old! We have been in a relationship since the past four years! It's quite a serious relationship and our families are aware.
 
 The problem is while I never believed in the concept of marriage, he was very much eager to settle down with me! But now, when I have started restoring my faith in marriage I find him changing the topic! He is ready to move in with me, take up my responsibility and stay together with me for a lifetime! He prefers to have a live-in relationship rather than a marriage! He says he has already seen his parents fight in their marriage and he doesn't want to go through the same.
  I totally respect his views, but honestly I am looking forward to our wedding. What should I do now?
 
 
  The conflict of whether to live-in or to marry your partner; tests the very grain of your belief system and can be very confusing too. There is an element of social conditioning as you grow up, propagating the institution of marriage. Yet many couples are taking an ideological position that their relationship is not dependent on social sanction and are brave enough to live together without getting married. Both these leave you wondering what path would you like to take. There are emotional, social and legal challenges to consider for this decision.
 Instead of sliding into living together as a natural next step to your relationship, it is crucial to sit down with your partner and clarify your expectations about the future, early in your relationship, to enhance your chances of remaining in a committed relationship. Examine your fears and openly discuss what are your motivations for living together? Do you see cohabitating as a step toward marriage or a test drive? What are your long term expectations regarding living together? This includes your values regarding fidelity, marriage, having children, etc. And what will you do if it doesn’t work out?
 Socially speaking, families cringe at the idea of live-ins because it hints at sex for pleasure instead of for procreation, which marriage implies. They see marriage as commitment while live-ins as shirking away responsibility. The binding social factor is also missing since there is a limited involvement with families. If the relationship doesn’t work out, there is no messy divorce and legality of alimony etc.
 However, when it comes to emotional well-being – studies have shown that women seem to get as much of a boost from living with a partner as they do from marriage. Fundamental difference between men and woman according to a recent study is that many women view living together as a step towards marriage while many men see it as a test drive.
 The biggest emotional challenge is the lack of stability and commitment. Couples who cohabitate are substantially less certain about the permanence of their relationships than those who are married; they report lower levels of commitment to their partner, Experience lower levels of closeness, love, and satisfaction in the intimacy dimension.
 However, It’s essential to recognize that life doesn’t offer any guarantee; Married couples do get divorced too and some could live together, get married, and be absolutely happy for the rest of their lives. Thus in your case, reflect on whether you have restored your faith in marriage because you are seeking greater commitment and permanence? And has your partner changed his mind out of an ideological standpoint or is he escaping the commitment. Check his mindset of commitment in general, Does he prefer living in as he has a greater acceptance of divorce or is it a weaker commitment to the institution of marriage.
 A firm mindset of commitment and open communication will give you the greatest chance of success in your relationship. Every successful relationship is successful for the same exact reasons.
  
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
