CHENNAI: The stain is spreading a portion of the heavy fuel oil that spilled at Ennore 20 days ago after two ships collided washed ashore at Cuddalore, 200km away, on Friday, alarming fishermen and environmental activists.

 Near the accident site, off the   where the collision took place on January 28, at least two tonnes of oil were removed and more continued to leak out.
 
 Teams of experts continued to toil on the   beach, which was cleaned up during an 11-day operation by the   with assistance from a private firm.
 
 Most of the oil patches had been 20 days in the sea and had bloated and coagulated into cakes, making the mop-up cum bersome. While one team threw nets on to the shore to absorb the thick layer of oil, another team used high-pressure steamers to spray boiling water on oil-coated sea walls. Clean-up is also on at nearby beaches like the Kasimedu fishing harbour where sand mixed-oil was removed from the coast. The operation is set to last more than a week.
 
 The recurrence of the oil slick, say experts, is due to the delayed response by Ennore port officials. The port officials claimed to have laid containment booms soon after the accident, but a lot of oil had already spilled and spread by then, the experts added. The booms are still intact, but the impact of the delay is now being felt.
 
 Fishermen on   at Thiruvottiyur, 8km from Ennore, complained that they had not been able to put out to sea over the last three days due to the presence of the oil slick.One of them, Panjam, pointed to a row of oil-stained fishing boats on the shore, and said they had to discard fishing nets as they were coated with oil sludge. “The presisting fear about oil poisoning marine life has ruined our livelihood,“ he said.
 
 Two Mumbai-based oil spill response firms had taken charge of the clean-up operation from the coast guard more than a week ago. The coast guard coordinated the clean-up with participation from  , state fire and rescue services, collectors, marine institutes, nearby ports, local fishermen, NGOs, oil companies and other government agencies.
 
