 have come with its share of woes for Puneiites. Shockingly, the number of people who have fallen victim to this crime has gone up in recent months. Officials at the Pune Police   confirm that crimes related to   cases, which involve reading the data off the card's magnetic strip, are on the rise in the city, with an increase in the number of cases in the last two months.

  Cyber security expert   says, “Scammers often wait at ATM booths to assist elderly people or those clueless of how a card works. Once they complete the transaction, they swap the card with a similar looking card.”
 
  An IT professional, who had fallen victim to debit card cloning and lost around Rs 70,000 says, “I had received text messages on my cell phone regarding three transactions of varying amounts being made. I filed a complaint with the bank and cyber cell.” An inquiry revealed that the data of his card was cloned by cyber fraudsters either while withdrawing money from ATM or while purchasing or paying for food.
 
 
  
 In another case, the   while investigating the debit and credit card skimming racket, arrested two waiters working in a Pune bar. The investigation revealed that the gang's mastermind maintained a register of customers' card details and PINs, making it clear that several had fallen prey to the gang operating since 2016. According to the police, a laptop with special software to decode a card's details was also recovered.
 
  Just last Friday, the Cyber Crime cell arrested two   for using a magnetic card reader to clone debit and credit cards. They allegedly used the cards to withdraw huge sums of money from the ATMs. “We recovered 20 debit cards, seven cloned cards, eight mobile handsets, seven sim cards, two dongles, a laptop and a cash amount of Rs 1.8 lakh,” informed Radhika Phadke, senior PI, Cyber Crime cell.
 
  The cops were able to track them after Hemant Appasaheb Phalke lodged a complaint after getting duped of Rs 67,000. After enquiring with the bank, he was asked by the manager to lodge a police complaint.
 
  The Pune Police cyber cell has registered more than 540 cases from January 2017 till date. These include fraud during money transfer using the credit card credentials and cloning and spoofing of credit cards.
 
  
 
  
  Cloning, also called skimming, requires the copying of debit card information at a card terminal using an electronic device or software and then transferring the information from the stolen card's magnetic strip onto a new card.
 
  
 
 
  Skimming is a technique that involves attaching a data skimming device in the card reader slot to copy information from the magnetic strip when one swipes the card. Sometimes they set up cameras near the machine to get the PIN.
 
  Another trick used by the fraudsters is shoulder surfing. If you find friendly bystanders in the room who try to help you if your card gets stuck or peer over your shoulder, beware. They are there to get your PIN. Also if you are used to carrying out transactions on your smartphone, public Wi-Fi makes for a good hacking opportunity for thieves to steal your card details.
 
 
