NOIDA: It was a harrowing day for commuters on   on Saturday as a 400-strong crowd of Samajwadi Party workers virtually laid siege to the four lanes of the flyway in the name of welcoming the party’s   candidate  . In the end, the party invited the wrath of many voters who routinely take the flyway and landed in a mess with cops filing an FIR against the candidate and seizing his vehicle.

 According to sources, the SP workers started gathering near the toll plaza as early as 10.30 am to welcome Chaudhary. Nearly 100 vehicles also lined up along the flyway. Till 11.15, the workers remained on one side of the flyway. Fifteen minutes before Chaudhary’s arrival around 11.30 am, the workers covered the four lanes at right side with nearly 30 workers occupying the middle of the flyway. When Chaudhary arrived around 11.30 am, nearly 100 workers crossed the toll booths and reached his cavalcade. The police, meanwhile, reached the spot only at 11.40 am. However, they started videographing the incident soon after their arrival.
 
 Pankaj Parikh, who was travelling from Delhi to his office in Film City, asked a worker why the lanes of DND were blocked by them. “I asked them the reason but they said an SP leader is coming. I was not expecting a jam at this point. It was so disappointing,” he told TOI. 
 
 Many clueless office-goers could be seen negotiating traffic as workers covered the entire area. Baba Khan, who was travelling from Delhi to Sector 63, Noida wondered, “Is this the way to welcome any leader? Are there not enough halls and banquets in the city?,” he asked.
 
 For nearly 20 minutes after his arrival, Chaudhary walked along with workers till he left around 11:50.
 
 Since no permission was sought from authorities for the gathering, an FIR under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servants) has been lodged against a number of workers including Chaudhary. 
 
 SP (City) Dinesh Yadav said that details of all the vehicles which participated in the gathering have been collected and will be sent to the district election officer so that whatever expenditure was incurred, could be added to the party’s election expenditure.
 
 “Since Section 144 of IPC is imposed in the district, any procession of this sort is to be held only after getting due permission from the authorities. Action will be taken under Section 188 of IPC for violating it. An FIR has been lodged. Nobody has been named. The court will decide on the punishment on the basis of our records and videography,” he said.
 
 Five SUVs, three trucks and one tempo with DJ system, which were among the vehicles that lined up on the flyway, have been seized by Sector 20 police. The SUV includes Chaudhary’s Toyota Fortuner.
 
 SP district president Rakesh Yadav told TOI that he himself got late for the welcome due to jam, which caused vehicles lining up till Sector 16.
 
 
