New Delhi: Education minister  , in his blog on Monday, slammed 298 private schools on public land for running to the courts every time Delhi government enforces the terms of its allotment letter. 

 The blog comes a day before the directorate of education (DoE) and DDA are supposed to reply to the   regarding the petition filed by private schools challenging the admission guidelines.
 
 In his blog, Sisodia counters the private schools’ claims with the help of older court rulings, addressing arguments on disparity between lease deed and allotment letter, and the clash of SC rulings with the ccts laid down in the Constitution.
 
 Until now, schools have argued that while the allotment letter states that the schools must grant admission to those living in its neighbourhood, the lease does not say anything in clear words. In argument, Sisodia posted an excerpt of a high court ruling that says the two documents are supposed to supplement each other. “And this way the high court quashed their argument that the terms of the allotment letter are not there in the lease deed,” he wrote. It follows an excerpt of an HC judgment Social Jurists, A Lawyer Group Vs Delhi Government and ORS.
 
 He also countered the schools’ argument that a constitutional statute is cardinal and cannot be overrun. “The schools had posted a review appeal following the   ruling (that schools on public land are bound by the conditions of the allotment letter) but the court clarified that the ruling is as per rules and the schools must abide by it. In its ruling on the review appeal, the SC even said that the order passed in the matter of  , is to be taken as a gap-filler to the   and Education Rules’ number 177,” he wrote.
 
 “So far as the question is concerned, Article 141 of the Constitution unequivocally indicates that law declared by Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within territory of India,” he quoted from AP vs MR Apparao (2002).
 
 He also slammed the previous government for its inaction in enforcement of the allotment letter conditions. “Ideally, the nursery admission guidelines should have been created in three months of the passing of the 2004 order, as per the allotment letter conditions. But this never happened, for whatever reason. Now that the government has released guidelines keeping in mind the SC order, the 298 schools should abide by them. But these schools have gone to the high court to contest the guidelines created on the basis of order passed by the Supreme Court,” wrote the education minister.
 
