ROHTAK: Two accused Ajay and Sachin, who were booked for   and looting a   showroom and a liquor vend in Rohtak during 2016 February violence were acquitted by a local court on Friday for want of evidence. It was on the complaint of Kunal, manager of Woodland showroom at D-park in Rohtak, that a case was registered on February 25, 2016, under sections 436, 392, 148 and 149 of the IPC.

 The complainant had stated that many persons armed with sharp-edged weapons and sticks had barged into the showroom on February 19 and looted footwear worth Rs 46 lakh and garments and accessories worth more than Rs 1.05 crore. They also torched furniture causing losses of Rs 40 lakh before fleeing.
 
 Another FIR was registered on the same day by a Model Town chowki constable that the looted items had been stored in a shop near D-park. When the police raided it in the presence of the shop owner, they recovered Woodland apparels and liquor bottles from there. Shop owner Surender had claimed that he had rented the shop to Ajay and his friend   for four months and suspected their role in this.
 
 Manjeet turned out to be a son of a personal security officer of a Rohtak BJP MLA and minister Manish Grover while Ajay was a son of a local cop.
 
 After investigations, name of Sachin of Chhara village name was also added in the FIR and subsequently Ajay and Sachin were arrested. Later, a chargesheet was filed against both but there was no mention of Manjeet, son of Grover’s PSO Davinder Yadav.
 
 Pronouncing the judgment, additional district judge   acquitted both, who were already out on bail.
 
 This has brought the investigations by the police under scanner. Witnesses in the court stated that the shop, where the looted items were stored, was found unlocked while the police had claimed that it was locked. In the court the shop owner denied his statement that he had leased out his property to the accused. Moreover, the police had claimed that they had called up the showroom owner and complainant at the shop but the latter stated that he was shown the looted items in the police station and was not called at the spot. Besides, the cops did not seal the case property. 
 
 The police had registered 1,212 cases against 305 persons in Rohtak for the violence during Jat stir. 
 
 
