KOLKATA: Have some of the   got used to the good life in hotels? Kolkata   Rail Corporation ( ), the executing agency of East-West Metro, on Saturday found it an uphill task to make the residents of the unsafe building at 111, NS Road to return home. 

 Forty five members of six families residing in the building refused to leave the hotel where they were rehabilitated during the passage of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) below Brabourne Road. Eventually, after much persuasion and drama, the residents went back home. “We asked them to allow us to stay till Sunday. But they (KMRC personnel) threatened us with police action. So we had to return on Saturday evening,” said  , one of the evacuees. They claimed they didn’t want to go back to the building because it was unsafe. “We are scared the building will suddenly collapse on us,” added Shaw.
 
 KMRC officials said they carried out intensive structure-strengthening measures on the building while the residents and other occupants were away for the last eight days. “We asked them to go back to their respective homes only after we were satisfied with the building’s structural stability. Before that, engineers from KMRC and   carried out a joint inspection. The building is now structurally much better than it was. But the residents and occupants must carry out basic repairs. We cannot allow evacuees to stay in the hotel for an unlimited time. It is an expensive proposition and one set of evacuees must make room for next batch,” said an official.
 
 “Our experience with residents of other buildings was extremely good. When the residents of 111, NS Road were refusing to check out of their hotel rooms, we advised them to go and see the kind of structural strengthening work we did,” said an Afcons official. 
 
 From Monday, KMRC will organize fresh evacuation at 44 and 45, Armenian Street. This three-century-old building requires special strengthening task. Owner Prabhat Rohatgi will be living at his Ballygunge home, while his tenants at 44, Armenian Street will be shifted to the MG Road hotel.
 
 The TBM will now move below the city’s heritage zone. Apart from the two nationally protected monuments — Magen David and Beth-El synagogues — the TBM will move close to the oldest church of the city (Armenian Church), the second oldest church (Portuguese church), the Nevaeh Salon synagogue and the Old Parsee Fire Temple. “This is why we have started taking all possible measures so that no structural distress is caused to the buildings. The TBM, which is moving at full speed, is likely to cross this part of Kolkata in record time.
 
 
