NEW DELHI:   had approached advertisement sector watchdog, the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), against  , saying that the latter's claim of being "officially the fastest network" is "misleading" and done in "mala fide manner in collusion with" broadband speed tester Ookla. The   has asked now   to either modify or withdraw the TVC by by 11th April 2017.
 
 The Mukesh Ambani-led firm had alleged that Ookla, the owner of Speedtest app, charges money for giving such awards and the company has also approached Jio for the same for the very quarter it issued the certificate of fastest mobile network to Bharti Airtel. Jio had also alleged that the methodology used attributes speed result to the SIM used in the primary slot of mobile phones even if a Jio SIM delivering high speed has been used in the secondary slot
  
 The ASCI ruled in Jio’s favour and its Fast Track Complaints Committee considered the representation to be misleading. 
  accessed the order and it says: “The FTCC referred to the TRAI web-site with respect to the coverage of Airtel vis a vis   and noticed that there is a significant gap between Geographical dispersion of Airtel and Jio 4G subscribers which could impact the comparison. Based on this data, the FTCC concluded that the claim was not adequately substantiated and the basis of comparison has been so chosen as to bestow artificial advantage to the advertiser.”
 
  
  
 However, Bharti Airtel maintains that Jio’s complaint is a deliberate attempt to "malign the brand" and "misguide customers". In a statement to TOI.in, Bharti Airtel said: “We do not agree with ASCI’s decision and will file an appeal as per guidelines. Our campaign is based on findings by Ookla - the globally recognised leader in mobile speed tests and also a benchmark for reputed global operators. We have shared all supporting facts with ASCI and strongly believe that our campaign is compliant with all guidelines. We will be happy to provide more details, if required, and hope ASCI will reconsider its decision.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Ookla says it fully stands behind the accuracy and reliability of the methodology used to designate Airtel as ‘India’s Fastest Mobile Network’. In a statement the company said: “The award designation was validated using the IP methodology described above for all Speedtest results during the last 6 months of 2016 (Q3 & Q4). When analyzing the data for all of 2016, Airtel was still the clear leader. When analyzing data for 2017 to date, Airtel is still the clear leader. It is worth noting that after correcting for the Android limitation, Airtel’s lead over Jio increases for all aforementioned date ranges.”
 
 
