UDUPI: There were smiles, hugs, teary eyes around   Mendonca, 47, and her children, when she touched down in   after going through an ordeal as a slave in Saudi Arabia for about 14 months. It was all thanks to the   (HRPF),   and NRI Forum, Jeddah who fought tooth and nail to get her back. She was promised a job in Qatar for a salary equivalent to Rs 25,000 per month. In June 2016, she left Mangaluru, but landed in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia.

 “It was hell. I’m lucky that I’m alive and back to see my three children. I’ll never think of going abroad,” she said during a media interaction here on Saturday. However, bringing back Jacintha was not easy. Dr Ravindranath Shanbhag, president, HRPF, Udupi, whose team co-ordinated with several private and government agencies in India and Saudi Arabia, said they paid almost Rs 5 lakh to Jacintha’s employer Abdullah Mohammad Aoun Allah Almutairi.
 
 Shanbhag said HRPF contacted Roshan Rodrigues, head of the NRI Forum in Saudi in April 2017, and with the help of his team, Jacintha has now been reunited with her family. He said, “When the government machinery failed, we spoke to Kannadigas of the Gulf to come to our aid. The founder of the NRI Forum, B K Shetty, and current president of the forum Roshan Rodrigues immediately responded by contacting the foundation. They started to negotiate with Jacintha’s kafil (employer) to reduce the amount he had demanded. With the combined efforts of these Good Samaritans, Jacintha successfully reached Jeddah on September 16.”
 
 Though she was freed by her employer, Jacintha could not return to India since she did not have the work permit. Shanbhag said whenever they tried contacting the Indian embassy in Saudi, officicials pointed out that Jacintha had a two-year contract and they cannot intervene. In an email to this reporter, the embassy stated, “the embassy and our consulate in Jeddah took up the case with the lady and requested her to send Jacintha to India but she categorically refused and stated that she will send her to India only after completion of the two-year contract period.”
 
 Shanbhag said: “The embassy never checked whether she had a contract or not. It did not do anything to bail her out. We have learnt that she (Jacintha) had landed in Saudi with a three-month visitor visa. She was brought to India at the right moment otherwise she would have been jailed forever in Saudi for illegal entry.” He added that Roshan and his team contacted labour department officials to obtain the work permit. “She returned to India on Friday evening through righteous and lawful measures,” he added.
 
