PUNE: The   will announce the schedule for admission to the 25% reserved seats under the Right to Education (RTE) act in the second week of January. 

 The schedule has been delayed by one month and with   schools completing admissions, activists fear that many eligible students might lose out on these schools.
 
 As per the act, 25% seats are reserved in the entry-level class of all primary schools for students belonging to socially and economically backward classes and specially-abled children. The fees for these students are waived till standard VIII.
 
 Last academic year, the erstwhile director of primary education had stated that admissions under RTE will be held in December. However, the admission process got delayed and started only in April. Activists felt that going by the pace at which education officials have been moving, with respect to the current year admissions, it will be a repeat of last year.
 
 Mukund Kirdat of   who has been assisting the beneficiaries in getting admissions to private schools under this scheme stated, “The admissions should have started by December, but like every year there is a delay this year too. We approached education officials, but there was little response on the exact date. This delay brings parents to a ‘no choice’ situation. As per procedures, the education department should have started data enrolment of eligible schools by now.”
 
 The delay in starting the admission process led to a lot of chaos last year as many private schools hold their admissions between December and March in the city. As a result, many parents who could have benefited from the RTE scheme, ended up admitting their children in private schools.
 
 Regional deputy director of education   said, “The online admission process will be common across the state The schedule will be out by next week and actual admission process will begin in 8-10 days. We are aiming at completing the admissions by April this year and five rounds of admissions would be held.”
 
 In the first phase of the admission schedule, schools will be asked to enter details in the admission website regarding the intake capacity and other details.
 
 
