Gurgaon: Seven key Gurgaon roads will be free of street vendors soon with the MCG planning to remove encroachments and earmark ‘no-vending’ zones in different parts of the city for traffic flow to improve.

 At a meeting on Monday, MCG officials discussed various issues that must be taken into account before imposing a complete ban on all kinds of temporary or permanent shops, stalls or carts on the seven busy stretches.
 
 The stretches identified include those from Sikanderpur Metro station to Iffco Chowk on MG Road; from   to   and from Subhash Chowk to Badshapur traffic signal on Sohna road; from Shankar Chowk to Sector 56 on Golf Course Road; from   bus stand to Mor Chowk via Mahavir Chowk and Civil Lines; from Atul Kataria Chowk to Mahavir Chowk on Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, and the stretch surrounding Pataudi Chowk.
 
 “Some roads and sites are so congested that   cannot be developed there. Street hawkers not only hinder the traffic but also cause inconvenience for the commuters … may consider declaring these sites as  ,” reads the minutes of the MCG meeting (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 
  
 
 These seven stretches apart, the corporation may convert more roads/stretches into no-vending zones. “The police, Huda and MCG may identify more such congested sites and inform this office so that further action may be taken,” said Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner (STP), MCG.
 
 The corporation is expected to finalise the proposal as soon as the vendors are rehabilitated to designated vending zones. Around 1,100 vendors have already been rehabilitated in nine sectors across the city. New vending zones will be set up in another 20 sectors soon. 
 
 Experts, dealing with civic issues, feel that the step, if implemented, will go a long way to decongest the city roads. “The move will make the roads encroachment-free and snarl-free,” said Samendra Dixit, a Faridabad-based road safety expert.
 
 Malik Chand, a street vendor near Iffco Chowk, said, “It is a good idea… we will get a permanent place to operate and get regular customers. We pay bribe to cops to work here every day. I will be happy to pay some amount to the corporation instead.”
 
 However, not all street vendors are in favour of moving to the dedicated vending zones. “Those who have been rehabilitated by MCG are not getting enough customers. You get customers only when you are located near a Metro station or a bus stand. I know many rehabilitated vendors, who are not happy with the response. I think MCG should establish vending zones on key stretches, like MG Road,” said another vendor near Sikanderpur.
 
 
