NAGPUR:   (IDA) has revealed that the rural population is not getting proper dental health care since there is only one dentist available for 50,000 people. The numbers fare slightly better in the cities as there’s one dentist for every 8,000 people.   President Dr Vishwas Puranik stressed on the need for a dental unit in all the government district hospitals to bridge the gap. 

 Puranik was in the city to inaugurate the conference   17, on Saturday, organized by Indian Dental Association (IDA), Nagpur Branch, at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. IDA treasurer Dr Deepak Mucchala, IDA president (Nagpur branch) Dr Manoj Chandak, IDA secretary (Nagpur branch) Dr Vaibhav Karemore and conference coordinator Dr Jaya Joshi were also present.
 
 He said, “The government hospitals hardly have enough dental surgeons who can cater to the huge population. There is a need to set-up a full fledged dental unit in every district hospital. Moreover, dentists hesitate practising in the rural areas, they need to get over this tendency.
 
 While talking on medico-legal issues at the conference, he said, “Dentists across the country have a bad habit that they only take care of patient’s dental aspect and don’t consider their medical history while giving treatment.”
 
 Describing a case, Puranik said, “A diabetic patient at Delhi had undergone dental transplant. The patient later filed a case against dentist and the dentist had to pay compensation of Rs2 lakhs. At a certain level of diabetes, a patient isn’t supposed to undergo such implants. The dentist wasn’t aware of him being diabetic just because he didn’t check his medical history, in fact dentists don’t feel it’s important to check it since they only take care of the teeths.”
 
 During the inauguration ceremony, Puranik also appealed that more and more dentists should come and join the association. 
 
 He also said, “Giving local anaesthesia on chair is prohibited and is also a common practice across the country. It’s a form of negligence.”
 
 During the ceremony, Nagpur branch of IDA also launched their website at the hands of Dr Puranik. All the upcoming activities organized by the association can be accessed through it.
 
 He also announced about the association holding its annual conference at Navi Mumbai between 17 and 19 February and appealed all the dentists to attend it.
 
 
