Chandigarh: If your car or scooter is low on fuel, get that tank full by Tuesday night. With Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association (CPDA) observing Wednesday as a ‘no purchase, no sale’ day in protest against the “loss-causing” dynamic fuel pricing system introduced by the Centre, all petrol pumps in the city will be closed for the day.

 Only company-owned and operated (Coco) petrol pumps — the Bharat Petroleum Pump in Sector 21C and the ones in sectors 21 and 9 — will remain open. On July 5, petrol pump dealers had observed a no-purchase day to protest.
 
 Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers’ Association general secretary Amanpreet Singh said they had taken the decision in a meeting on the issue. “Our profit margins have been squeezed by the new pricing concept,” he said.
 
 He added that the protest did not mean that were against dynamic fuel pricing. “But the government must find a solution to depleting profit margins due to the introduction of the concept. Overall profit margin per litre has come down drastically; now it is not possible to maintain staff and sustain other expenses. This will lead to reducing manpower and will directly affect the customer service,” he said.
 
 Amanpreet said they had decided to join the nationwide, 24-hour protest from the midnight of July 12. “No petrol pump will function on these dates in city,” said Amanpreet.
 
 Daily price change of petrol and diesel across the country by public sector oil companies like Indian Oil, BPCL and HPCL started from June 16, following the “success” of a pilot implementation in five cities.
 
 There are around 42 petrol pump dealers registered with the association in city. UT may suffer around a Rs 80-lakh loss due to the protest. The administration charges VAT at the rate of Rs 14 per litre on petrol and Rs 8 per litre on diesel. As a matter of fact, the state exchequer loss due to single-day closure of petrol pumps will cost Rs 28.57 lakh on petrol against total single day sale of 400 kilolitres and Rs 62.5 lakh on diesel against sale of 500 kilolitres, said Arjan Singh, president of Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers’ Association. “The government has created a tough situation for dealers. We just want the government to find a way out to safeguard our commission; the rest is acceptable to us,” he added.
 
 Petrol dealers say they are not against “daily price change”, but want protection of commission.
 
 Dealers’ commission comprises reimbursement of all expenses and 0.14 paisa as remuneration
 
 Want oil-marketing to absorb increase/decrease in prices, saying that they we would not be able to pay staff salaries and electricity bills if this is not done
 
 
