Nagpur: While Mahametro may be able to achieve a record if   begins commercial operation in December, it will still miss chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ deadline by one month. Fadnavis had told TOI in October 2016 that Nagpur Metro would roll out by November 2017. The flag off of the trial run will be held on Saturday afternoon.

 Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit had set the target for commercial operations in November. The trial by Research Design and Standards Organization (RDSO) was to begin in mid-September. However, this has got delayed by a month postponing the commercial operation. 
 
 Nagpur Metro will begin commercial operation assuming RDSO completes its oscillation trial in one month, Railway Board clears the project on time and then commissioner of Metro rail safety (CMRS) completes its trial in the stipulated period. Otherwise, the commercial operation of the 5.4km at grade section will get further delayed.
 
 Mahametro is competing with Lucknow Metro to begin commercial operations at the earliest. The latter had started a 8.5km stretch in record 36 months.
 
 The agency has hired six coaches from Hyderabad Metro for operations on the at grade section. Three of them have already been painted as per Nagpur Metro design. The remaining three are expected to arrive next month. The coaches have been leased for three years.
 
 Mahametro has fixed the deadline for completing the entire project by December 2019. However, due to delay in commencement of construction work on Kamptee Road Metro stretch, the project will be complete only in first quarter of 2020. Mahametro officials, however, say that they will try their best to expedite works on Kamptee Road stretch. It is another thing that union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has been claiming that the project will be completed by December 2018.
 
 While delay in completion of the project will increase the cost by Rs50 lakh per day, Mahametro officials say that they have reduced the project cost by 8.5% through various measures. The delay will therefore not increase the project cost beyond the detailed project report (DPR) estimate prepared by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).
 
 A major way in which Mahametro saved money was by outsourcing the automatic fare collection (AFC) system. DMRC had estimated that installation of ticket counters, ticket gates, printing of tickets, etc would require Rs200 crore. However, Mahametro tied up with SBI for installing AFC system and now the bank will bear all the expenditure. In addition it will pay the Metro agency a royalty of Rs30 crore.
 
 
