Madurai: Dhan Foundation, a city-based NGO through its TATA – Dhan Academy launched a biennial event, Madurai Symposium on Wednesday. Once in two years, the NGO organises the symposium on various developmental issues and this year theme is “Building resilience for sustaining development.”

 From its inception in 2003, a total of seven events were organised and the present symposium is the 8th edition. In all, there will be 54 events including conventions, stakeholder forum, workshops and training.
 
 Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao inaugurated the event and said that humans have to live in harmony with nature and protect our mother earth like our ancestors for sustainable development. All our solutions and thoughts have to be more practical that can be applied directly at grass root level. The ground water recharge and soil conservation has to be given importance, he said.
 
 Touching upon Vaigai river, collector said the district administration with various stakeholders constituted Vaigai River Restoration Trust with five key actions like boundary marking and encroachment eviction, removal and stopping solid waste and sewage dumping, conducting mass cleaning event using college and school students to clean the garbage in the river, prosopis juliflora removal, ground water recharge through construction of rain water harvesting structures and tree plantation and maintenance. He also requested the community to keep their residing areas clean and healthy. Collector also released a book of DHAN’s collective and their works towards resilience and released an audio CD about the coastal resilience aspect.
 
 Executive director of Dhan Foundation M P Vasimalai presented an overview about the symposium and this year’s theme. He said that this a knowledge building event where various stakeholders and community members from across India are participating. Resilience will be under three pillars namely coping mechanisms, adaptive and transformative mechanisms, he said. S Suresh Kumar, chairman and managing director, Pallavan Grama Bank, Salem gave a key note address on how various products and schemes will help to build resilience at household and community levels. Various resilience schemes like Jan Dhan Yojana, accident insurance, life insurance and Atal Pension Yojana are available at very low rates, he said.
 
 
