CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the notification issued by the Haryana government through which it had ordered affiliation of all colleges running B Ed and engineering courses in Panipat and Sonipat district to Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, from the 2017-18 academic session. These institutes are currently affiliated to Kurukshetra University, Kuruskhetra ( ).

 With these orders, all the institutes which were to be affiliated to DCRUST by virtue of the state government decision would remain affiliated to KUK.
 
 A division bench headed by Justice Mahesh Grover passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology and other institutes. Petitioners had sought directions to set-aside the Haryana government’s notification issued on June 21, 2017 through which the decision to shift the affiliation of colleges under Panipat and Sonipat from KUK to DCRUST.
 
 The bench has also issued notice to the state government seeking response on the contentions raised by the petitioner.
 
 The petitioners claimed that they are running various technical courses including B Tech, BCA, diploma courses in engineering and M   in Panipat district and had been duly approved from   (AICTE).
 
 It was further stated by the petitioners that for the purpose of grant of degrees in B Tech, BCA and M Tech, they are required to be affiliated to a university and they were affiliated to the KUK from 2008 to the current academic session-2017-18.
 
 The petitioners informed HC that on June 21, the technical education department Haryana issued a notification stating the all the colleges running B.Ed and Engineering courses in Panipat and Sonipat district shall stand affiliated to DCRUST. Petitioners have objected the notification in respect of the engineering courses only.
 
 It was further contended that in a subsequent notification on June 21, the state government ordered that all the co-educational colleges in Panipat district continued to be affiliated with KUK. Main plea of the petitioners was that since they are also running the co-educational colleges in Panipat districts, they should also be allowed to continue with KUK.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on December 1.
 
