HYDERABAD: The father of Alok Reddy Madasani, who was   in the  , though shaken, was beyond relieved that his son survived the horrific episode. He is planning to leave for the US soon.

 “What can I say. I only thank god that my son is alive and is out of danger. My sympathies are with his friend’s family. Alok and Srinivas are best friends, they used to meet regularly, and I spoke to him many times. It’s bad luck that we lost him,” a shocked Jaganmohan Reddy said. “The US is not the same any more and I advise Indians staying there not to get into arguments and risk their life,” he said. 
 
 Speaking about the phone call that he received from his elder son Surender Reddy, he said, “When my elder son said Alok was injured in a gunshot, the ground beneath my feet began to crumble, I was so shocked. But he pacified us saying that Alok was fine now and out of danger. I want to go there as soon as possible,” said Reddy. He was relieved after learning that his son was safe and back at his house. 
 
 Commenting on the current situation in the US, he said Indians should mind their own business and should stay away from troublemakers. “As situation is not favourable these days, Indians abroad should take a lot of precautions. It would be better if they stay indoors as much as possible,” Reddy said. 
 
 “Americans think that Indians are snatching their jobs. A message needs to be sent out saying how the US is benefiting because of Indians and it is not always just the other way around. My son’s works for 11 to 12 hours a day, how many people are ready to work so long?” he asked, adding that both countries should try and sort out the that enmity between Americans and Indians.
 
 Explaining how his son got injured, he said, “Alok and his friends had gone out as usual, but at the restaurant, a man started saying 'you Indians should not stay here’ and ‘leave our country’. Alok took the matter to the restaurant manager and he asked the man to leave. He left the place and came back with a gun and started shooting before anyone could realise what was happening.” 
 
 Alok went to   in 2006 to pursue his MS from  . From 2008, he started working there and is currently placed as aviation program coordinator at Garmin International.
 
