For Odia superstar  , acting in Telugu films is like reconnecting with his half-Telugu self. 'I have a big Telugu connection. My forefathers hailed from   (Andhra Pradesh) and I still have relatives there. As a kid, I used to visit Anakapalle during vacations and have many fond childhood memories of the time I spent there. Both my parents and I speak Telugu, so I actually consider myself 'half Telugu',' says the actor who is set to foray into Tollywood with two Telugu films,   and  . 
His stint as the brand ambassador of Team Hyderabad in   last year, is what paved the way for his Tollywood debut. 'I used to travel with the team for promotional activities in various cities across South India. That's how I got the opportunity to meet a lot of filmmakers and producers from Tollywood. A few of them showed interest in working with me and here I am,' he says. 
 Incidentally, Sabyasachi owes his   (Odia Film Industry) fame also to Tollywood. 'My 2007 Odia debut Pagala Premi was a remake of Allu Arjun's Arya. The film became a hit and that's how my acting career kick-started. Later, I also did remakes of Magadheera and  , both of which went on to do well,' he says, adding, 'Trust me, it's a dream come true to work in Tollywood. I was always an   fan and was fascinated by Tollywood ever since I did the Arya remake. I like the way films are made here; they are larger than life. I'm excited about the fact that I'm in talks with a few more filmmakers for future projects.' 
 Although he's acted in more than 30 films in Ollywood, Sabyasachi believes that every film is like a new beginning. 'It doesn't matter if you have thousand fans or if your films have all done well or you've got many awards to your credit. With every new movie, it's like you are starting from scratch.' 
 Well, with Neerajanam, a tri-lingual, Sabyasachi will be testing waters in Tamil cinema as well. 'It will be in Tamil and Odia and will see me playing an aimless singer who's not serious about his life. I am paired opposite Karunya Chowdary, who plays a girl who suffers from a mental disorder. how my character falls for her and our love story is the crux of the film, which also stars Sana.' 
 His second film, Sitaramula Kalyanam Chuthamu Raarandi directed by GNS Prasad, is a family drama. 'In this film, I got a chance to work with actors like Suman, who plays my father. Set in a village backdrop, the film has a lot of situational comedy. The film has a witty premise where you have a modern day ram and Sita who are fighting all the time. Imagine a Sita-Ram story set in kalyug,' he says, adding, 'We shot in Rajahmundry, Talaku and Tanuku, apart from foreign locations and it was a blast! Now, my only aim is to capture the pulse of the audience and win their hearts.' 
 
