HYDERABAD:   whose party has seven seats in   is looking for big gains in  . At every `jalsa', Owasi's strategy is clear -be vitriolic about Modi, poke fun at Mulayam-Akhilesh and be dismissive of  . And eat into the Muslim-Dalit vote.

 In the three well-attended public meetings he has addressed so far, the 47-year-old Owai si got a rousing reception.“Dekho dekho kaun aaya...sher aaya,“ the crowd roared when he held a rally at Sambhal on Jan 15. He addressed a huge meeting attended by enthusiastic crowds at Moradabad on Jan 14 and Kairana the next day. A massive rally has been planned for January 19 at Saharanpur, home to Darul Uloom. Both Moradabad and Kairana have been communal flashpoints recently. “A saduddin Owaisi spe aks not just for Mus lims, but for Dalits and all sections for people.We witness that in Parliament. People have reposed trust in him,“ president of MIM's Uttar Pradesh unit, Shaukat Ali, told TOI from UP. MIM cadres and leaders from party's national headquarters at Darussalam in Hyderabad are not only providing Owasi backroom support, but workers have also trooped to UP to boost his campaign.
 
 Polls to the UP Assembly will be held in seven phases beginning February 11 for 403 seats. MIM declared candidates for 11 seats. A total of 130 seats will go to polls on February 11 and 15. It is learnt the party has got applications from 100 Assembly constituencies and Asaduddin will decide where to field candidates. Though the list for the first and second phases consists of Muslims only , there will also be Dalits in the lists for the other phases, it is learnt.
 
 “No, we are not here to play spoiler. How did MIM play spoiler in the Secunderabad Lok Sabha elections in 2014,“ countered Shaukat Ali when asked to respond to allegations that MIM was in the fray as part of a strategy to help or defeat some party .
 
 The third-time MP from Hyderabad, Asaduddin him self is countering propaganda against him in public meetings. “What have the socalled secularists done for the Muslim community all these years? They have only treated them just as votebanks. We should not allow this to happen now,“ Asaduddin said at the Sambhal public meeting. He urged Dalits and other backward classes to support MIM.
 
 The MIM leader is particularly poking fun at chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his father Mulayam Singh. “If father and son cannot get along well, how can they take you along with them for development? The SP is meant to benefit only its family members and they are enacting a drama,“ he said. “UP kise ke baap ki jagir nahin haiin (UP is nobody's family property),“ Asaduddin remarked.
 
 “In this election, it is no time to ride a bicycle. We have to go in a rocket to reach our goals for development,“ he said referring to the bicycle which is the symbol of the SP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being specifically targeted. “Because of demonetization, eight crore people in the country have lost jobs,“ he said.
 
 Countering Modi's stand against triple talaq, Owasi asked, “Does Modi know anything about Shariat that he speaks on such issues?“ Owaisi is adding a bit of humour to also counter propaganda against Muslims.“Ham ek mein hi pareshan hain (We are burdened with even one marriage),“ he remarked to drive home the point that it is wrong to say Muslims marry many times.
 
