BHOPAL: Prisoners should look well groomed, a committee constituted by   believes. It has recommended  , hair oil toothbrush and toothpaste for every convict — all at state expense.

 This comes in the wake of protests in prisons across Madhya Pradesh after stringent curbs following the controversial SIMI jailbreak and encounter. Prisoners were barred even canteen food. Even undertrials were denied food or any other item from home. This triggered outrage behind bars and inmates in some jails staged protests, leading the DG-prisons to set up a committee to make recommendations for prisoners’ well being.
 
 The committee, comprising senior officials, interacted with prisoners and has submitted its recommendations to the government. Among other things, the panel wants the state to provide ‘skin  , toothbrush, toothpaste, salad, fruits and snacks’. Bangles and sindoor are to be given to female undertrials, and things that are needed for religious worship must be provided, it says. The cost for all this has to be borne by the exchequer, sources say.
 
 The DG-prisons, Sanjay Chaudhary, issued orders on January 12, making certain changes in the norms and provide some of the “essential goods” recommended by the committee.
 
 “Accepting certain recommendations, orders have been issued to provide undertrials with certain things. For instance, they are now given ‘dalia’ for breakfast. It has been instructed that they get snacks on some days and different breakfast on other days. One of the recommendations was for salad so we have instructed that there should be plenty more vegetables in their staple food,” Chaudhary told TOI.
 
 “They wanted hair oil. As per manual, 5 gram hair oil should be provided to them. It will be given. If required, small sachets of hair oil that are available in the market could be utilised,” he added. “These are things that do not require any budget or additional expenses. But for other things, like toothpaste, skin cream, bangles and sindoor, and things of religious worship like incense sticks, we need a budget. For this we have requested the state government for around Rs 90 lakh,” Chaudhary said.
 
 On October 9, the DG-prisons banned undertrials from receiving goods from their relatives.
 
 The orders have come in light of the jail-break by alleged SIMI operatives. On October 30, eight alleged SIMI operatives killed a jail guard and escaped. However, they were killed in an ‘exchange of fire’ with police a few hours later. Now, the state government is working on a string of initiatives, including construction of ‘anda cell’ to host dreaded criminals.
 
