KOLHAPUR: Enraged with the frequent questioning over coming home late, a 30-year-old man allegedly killed his father with sharp weapon on Sunday night at   area of city. 

  Mohammad Mulla (55), resident of Shahu colony, was allegedly killed by his son  . The incident was reported with Rajarampuri police station and the police later arrested Rafiq from the same locality in the wee hours of Monday. 
 
 Arvind Choudhari, inspector in-charge of Rajarampuri police station, said that Rafiq and his father Pirsab used to work at building construction sites in city. Rafiq used to come home late at around midnight or 1am every day, which led to daily quarrels between Pirsab and him. 
 
 “On Sunday night, Rafiq reached home at around 11.30pm. When he knocked the door, nobody responded from inside. Angry over this, Rafiq started kicking the door. When Pirsab opened the door and questioned him about coming late, Rafiq pulled out a knife from his pocket and stabbed Pirsab multiple times,” said Choudhari. 
 
 Their family members, including Rafiq's wife and mother, raised an alarm. Their neighbours reached the spot and caught Rafiq. “One of the neighbours snatched the knife from Rafiq's hand, but he managed to escape from the spot. The neighbours immediately rushed Pirsab to the   (CPR) civil hospital for treatment. During treatment, Pirsab succumbed to his injuries,” said Choudhari.
 
 “At around 2am, Rafiq again returned home and broke some material, including utensils from kitchen, cupboard, ceiling fan, and again escaped in the dark. After we got information about the incident, we rushed to the spot and found Rafiq hiding behind a house in lane number 3 of Vikramnagar area. He attempted to fight with the police but we nabbed him,” he said.
 
 The police have seized the knife used in the crime and have booked Rafiq under section 302 of Indian Penal Code for murder. The police said that Rafiq is criminal on police record and six months ago, he was arrested under section 307 of IPC for attempt to murder another person from a gang in Vikramnagar area.
 
