It is easy to miss the dilapidated building in middle of innumerable important institutions on  . But the young and aspiring theatre persons easily find their way to   premises to hang out, practice or perform their freshly minted dramas. Though there is no proper stage, auditorium or the other infrastructure required to hold plays or events, yet it has been the go-to place for theatre persons since the last three decades.

 Formed as a public trust in 1956, the purpose of   Parivar was promotion of Hindi. “But the relevance of this agenda has diminished over the years,” says Suresh Agarwal, one of the trustees who is fondly addressed as   by the milling crowds of actors, directors and writers visiting the place.
 
 “It all started with theatre person   who began visiting the place and many more like Vivek Kher, Ajay Ghare, Sanjay Bhakre and Girish Pandey made it a practice to come here to discuss their plays or stage them,” says Agarwal who hails from a business family. 
 
 The practice continued over the years and youngsters trying to carve a niche for themselves continued to make it their springboard. “The presence of young people keeps the place buzzing and gives a youthful look to this otherwise old and crumbling premises,” says Agarwal.
 
 In terms of infrastructure, the place offers nothing. The mosquito-infested hall on the first floor is split into two whenever a play is to be staged. One half becomes the stage with black curtains hung on the sides serving as wings and the other half has a rug spread on the floor and a couple of random chairs for the audience. 
 
 “Jugaad is what we do here,” says actor, director Rupesh Pawar who now coordinates theatre activities here. Pointing to a long bamboo pole which runs across the hall Pawar says, “We use this to hang the lights which are manually controlled. The lights are second hand and we have pooled in the money won by us at various competitions to buy them. The background scores are played on our laptop and microphone has never been used by us while staging a play here.” 
 
 Everything on the premises which can be put to use has been utilized by this group. “We even used the chair on which babuji sits as a prop in one of our plays,” says Pawar.
 
 But nobody is complaining. “Around 10-12 of us interested in theatre required a place where we could go and practice or stage a play at minimum cost,” says Pawar elaborating upon the formation of theatre group First Bell on Stage in 2004 which functions from here. 
 
 “Soon our numbers swelled to 80,” says Pawar about others like Piyush Dhumkekar who later went to National School of Drama, Abhay Nawate, Dhananjay Mandoakar and Vijay Pawar. “Our aim was to create directors here but most of them went to Mumbai later to pursue their careers which created a lull in the activities here around 2012,” he says.
 
 But the buzz once again picked up at Rashtrabhasha premises in 2014 when NSD graduate Mangal Sanap returned to the city. “We realized the significance of professional training and so brought this concept of conducting theatre workshops to bring in fresh talent,” says Pawar and adds that now every summer a theatre workshop is conducted here. 
 
 The effort to add value to the activity went as far as to get the famous Thespo group of Mumbai to conduct a workshop. “So inspired was Thespo by our methods that they introduced an activity called ‘Fringe’ on our pattern for Jugaado plays,” informs Pawar.
 
 What has kept this movement thriving is the total freedom to pursue one’s interest says Ruturaj a young director associated with Rashtrabhasha for four years. “There is no restriction of who would do what and nobody here is opinionated. There is so much of interaction among ourselves and as a director I can also find scripts,” he adds.
 
 The lack of even basic facilities is of no concern to these people. The trustees too have not made any effort to bring improvement. “Commercialization of this space would destroy this movement. I have seen how people get embroiled and lose sight of the cause. At the moment these young people here add a lot of value in terms of putting their labour and emotions. This innocence has to be kept intact,” feels Agarwal.
 
