BERHAMPUR: Visitors will feel themselves in the lap of nature in the   when they visit the newly-developed   at Mula Gudari, which was inaugurated by secretary,  ,   on Friday. The centre will start functioning in a full-fledged manner by first week of next month, said divisional forest officer (DFO), Phulbani, Prakash Chand Gogineni. 

 Constructed inside the mega nursery of forest department along Phulbani-Bhubaneswar road, the eco-tourism centre has well-furnished five rooms and a Japanese garden. Besides, a sitting Buddha statue, various plantations in garden, including bamboo, different fishes in aquariums and lighting system are other major attraction of the garden located in front of the rooms. 
 
 The eco-tourism centre has been developed inside the 10-acre nursery with an expenditure of Rs 44 lakh, said the DFO. 
 
 While Rs 34 lakh was spent for developing the well-furnished rooms with open dining system, Rs 10 lakh was spent for the development of the garden. 
 
 "We hope visitors will enjoy the atmosphere when they visit the eco-tourism centre," he said. 
 
 The eco-tourism centre would be managed by an 18-member self-help group (SHG), consisting of three males and 15 females. The male members of the group would double up guides. They would accompany the visitors to other picturesque and attractive sites in the district, said the DFO. Forest staff and members of the vana surakshya samitis would extend all help like preparation of food to the visitors in the respective destinations. Female SHG members would prepare food and render other hospitalities-related services to the visitors. 
 
 Several visitors from far-off places of the state, outside and foreigners visit different locations of   to enjoy its picturesque and cool climate. Most of them visit sites like Daringibadi, Belghar, Phulbani town and Pokajhara especially during the winter season when temperature plummets to as low as two degree Celsius. The newly-developed eco-tourism centre will provide them accommodation, said a forest officer. 
 
 
