Finance Minister  , while delivering his budget speech, referred to the cruel patriarchs in writer MT  's novels, who failed to see the tears of their sisters. Allocating Rs 68 crore to prevent atrocities against women, he said that government would ensure their safety.

 Reinstating gender budget, he set aside Rs 2,326.5 crore for women development schemes, which is 11.5% of the total plan outlay. He also allocated Rs 1,593.39 crore for child development plan, 8%of the state plan for 2017-18.
 
 Of the Rs 68 crore allotted to various schemes for prevention of atrocities against women, Rs 12 crore was for pink control room and self-defence training, Rs 34 crore for awareness campaigns, Rs.19.5 crore for shelter homes, short stay homes and one stop crisis centre and Rs 3 crore for two SOS model homes.“Women battalion, taluk-level women police stations, panchayat-level visits by women police officers, public register of sexual offenders are novel initiatives,“ he said.
 
 Isaac also announced that a special department for women will be formed in 2017-18 that will take over all social welfare schemes which are now implemented by the social justice department. For this, 14 officer posts will be created at district level along with posts for law and admin istrative officers with support staff.
 
 Isaac said the gender statement prepared by the planning board had divided allocation into two parts. Part-A included schemes whose beneficiaries were only women. An amount of Rs.1060.5 crore has been allocated for 64 schemes (5.23% of the total outlay). Part-B of the statement covered general developmental schemes with a special component for women.
 
 The total outlay for the 104 schemes under these components would be Rs 13, 400 crore. He said utmost importance is given to wom en development projects and schemes in various departments.The total outlay of these schemes is Rs 506 crore.
 
 The budget has set aside Rs 8 crore for women development corporation that plans to set up amenity centres with support from Kudumbashree and local self-government institutions. Sanitary workers employed in these centres will get allowances in addition to the user fees collected. For this, the minister has set aside Rs 10 crore from the advertisement expenditure of Kerala Lottery. The budget has earmarked Rs 11 crore for gender parks.
 
 
 
 
 An amount of Rs 30 crore is earmarked for the state welfare corporation for forward communities. Also, Rs 4.4 crore is set apart for the renovation of agraharams
 
 
 
 
 A social security scheme for girls belonging to scheduled castes will be launched. It ensures insurance coverage of Rs1 lakh, to be given either on completion of Class X or at the age of 18
 
 
 
 
 An intensive programme will be implemented for eradicating leprosy and elephantiasis. An amount of Rs 1 crore is earmarked for providing aid to ailing elephantiasis patients
 
 
 
 Around Rs 40 crore and Rs 60 crore allocated to state sports council and directorate of sports & youth affairs respectively.   to get Rs 1 crore
 
