Get ready for a night of drama, glamour, camaraderie, scintillating performances and passionate speeches from the winners. 

  
  
 Shah Rukh Khan,   and Kapil Sharma were in their element as the night's hosts. Their witty asides kept everyone in splits along with their qawaali, which was about the differences in arthouse films and commercial cinema and became the talking point of the evening. SRK, known for his split second timing, brought in the laughs as he serenaded Shabana Azmi with his song, 'Janam Janam' from 'Dilwale' as she came on stage to take her Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Female) trophy for Neerja. Husband Javed Akhtar, who was presenting her with the award, joined in the fun as well.
 
  
  
 Emotions reached a high point as   went on stage to present the Lifetime Achievement Award to his lifelong friend and colleague, Shatrughan Sinha. Bachchan was all praise for Shatrughan's indelible ways while Shatrughan admitted how Bachchan is unique to the industry.   couldn't contain his elation as his lovely daughter   joined him on stage too. 
 
 
  
  
 On the Filmfare stage   was visibly shocked when director Prantik Vivek Deshmukh, winner for the Best Short Film (Non-Fiction) award for his film 'Matitali Kusti', bent down to touch her feet while receiving his award from her!
 
 Salman Khan's performance won the most applause and all the girls, including the actresses present in the audience, went wild cheering for the superstar and his stellar dance moves.   was a revelation as she danced to 'Yeh ishq Hai' from Jab We Met ' which is very close to her as it originally features her favourite actress Kareena Kapoor. Tiger Shroff, set the stage ablaze with his high octane moves and also shared an emotionally charged moment when father   joined him on stage during the closing of his act. The senior Shroff played the iconic flute tune from 'Hero', needless to say, leaving the fans in frenzy. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 Varun Dhawan set the crowd on fire with his electric performance and Alia Bhatt's surprise inclusion in his act got the most whistles and claps. Sushant Singh Rajput, a decade ago, graced the Filmfare stage as a backup dancer and hence was emotional during his performance with   . As expected, the duo scorched up the stage in top form.
 
  
  
 
 The 62nd Jio Filmfare Awards show promises to be more spectacular than ever, get ready to be entertained like never before. The much awaited awards will be telecast at 9 pm on February 18, 2017 only on Sony Entertainment Television.
 
