PUNE: The upcoming municipal elections would require nearly 2.5 lakh electronic voting machines, including both the control and ballot units. To meet this, the state election commission has requested an additional 50,000 EVMs from  .

 On February 16, elections for 15 zilla parishads and 165 panchayat samiti will take place. The remaining 11 zilla parishads, 118 panchayat samitis and 10 municipal corporations in the state will go to polls on February 21.
 
 To ensure the process is smooth, the state election machinery is making all necessary back-up arrangements and checking the existing EVMs ahead of the polls.
 
 “All machines have been checked and they are 100% tamper proof. We are confident about these machines and necessary checks have been put in place. The additional stock from MP will be a back-up,” state election commissioner J S Saharia told TOI. 
 
 He said they have 70,000 EVMs of their own, and nearly 1.1 lakh control units and 1.3 lakh ballot units from the Election Commission of India.
 
 State election commission officials also told TOI that the machines have been allotted to the corporations and zilla parishads as per the number of candidates contesting elections. The state election commission’s machines have the technical advantage of accommodating multiple members, so there could be two control units and eight ballot units for municipal corporation elections depending on the number of candidates contesting. 
 
 “Each EVM can accommodate 15 candidates and I think not more than two units will be required for each ward. These are being utilised in all corporations except Mumbai,” an election official said.
 
 Though this has led to confusion among parties and voters, the officials said officers at polling booths will guide the voters and there is no need to worry.
 
 There is no permission to have a verified paper audit trail for these elections. Election officials said it was on trial stage.
 
 Officials from the central election commission who checked these machines said they were in use since 1998 and no case of tampering has been reported.
 
 
