Noida: Noida’s entrepreneurs have been reassured by T Tonsingh Prasad, principal commissioner of income tax, in the city, that phone calls they have been receiving from callers threatening them with I-T raids over the past week are fake.

 When a group of industrialists from Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA) met Prasad on Wednesday to apprise him of their concerns, the commissioner clarified to them that the income tax department had not made any such call. 
 
 He said that any entrepreneur receiving such a call should inform the I-T department and lodge a police complaint.
 
 The entrepreneurs complained that over the past week, calls were being made to them from two numbers 8750622547, 9810901243 with a True Caller ID of Governmental Public Services, threatening them with raids unless immediate disclosure of assets was made. According to the entrepreneurs, the callers were also asking them to settle for a sum so as to avoid a raid.
 
 Vipin Kumar Malhan, president, Noida Entrepreneurs Association, said that about 100 calls have been received by entrepreneurs across Noida. 
 
 “Many of them are so perturbed that they came rushing to NEA with the complaint. So we met the principal commissioner of I-T. We have been assured by the officer that the numbers from which the calls are being made are from a fake, personal ID and should be ignored,” Malhan said.
 
 “If anyone receives a fake call or anything bordering on extortion in the name of the department of taxes, a report can be filed with the income tax department at 0120-241286,” Malhan said. The entrepreneurs have extended their complaint in writing to SSP GB Nagar and SP City, Noida.
 
 “We have informed all the key offices about these calls. We will lodge a formal police complaint on Thursday. The city’s businessmen often fall prey to extortion bids. Because these calls were being made so frequently and from the same numbers, we could take a collective complaint,” Malhan said.
 
 Noida has 9,000 manufacturing units, with a maximum concentration of small and medium enterprises. NEA is an umbrella association which extends support to the city’s entrepreneurs.
 
 
