When we are young, we believe that we will forge our own destiny. In an effort to discover ourselves, we often take the road less travelled, and believe that it will lead us to a sense of self. Sometimes, however, our search for our identity can lead us to make surprising discoveries. Science works the same way too, at times. A search for answers to certain questions can often reveal alarming results. 

 While   is on the rise in the general population, it is particularly alarming to see the increase in the diagnosis of new cases in the youth. Type 1 diabetes is caused by an insufficient production of insulin, and as such cannot be avoided as it has a genetic component. Type 2 diabetes, on the other hand, results from an inability of the body to utilize insulin. This means that while, there are certain people who may be at higher risk of developing diabetes, it is possible to prevent it through  . This study highlights the fact that the youth has the power to take their destiny into their own hands, and lead a diabetes -free life, if preventive measures are taken at the earliest. 
 
 The SEARCH for Diabetes in a youth study, for example, evaluated the incidence of new cases of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in children and youth under the age of 20. This study was recently reported in the 
 . The study included five groups in the Unites States: Caucasians, African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, and Native Americans. The results of this study showed that the incidence of both types of diabetes increased dramatically in the ten-year period between 2002 and 2012. The incidence of type 1 diabetes increased by 1.4% each year, while that of type 2 diabetes increased by 4.8% every year. Young Hispanics between the ages of 0 and 19 showed a greater rise in the incidence of type 1 diabetes (4.2%) and type 2 diabetes (3.1%) than any other group. While type 1 diabetes is most common in younger people, the incidence of type 2 diabetes in this population has increased globally. Younger people are more likely to develop diabetes-related complications at an early stage in life, and suffer for a longer duration due to the early onset of the disease. This in turn reduces their life expectancy and their quality of life. Due to these reasons, several studies are under way to help identify youth at risk and to enable preventive measures. Screening methods such as Type 1 Diabetes TrialNet can assist to achieve these goals.
 
 With these roadmaps at hand, it may be possible for the youth to pave the road to a healthy future.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
