MUMBAI: The  's revised transaction fees, which start at Re 1 per trade for up to 5 lakh monthly transactions, will hit  , smaller traders as well as  , say   participants.
 
  Earlier, the BSE charged a flat fee of Rs 275 for a gross turnover of Rs 1 crore as against Rs 325 by the NSE. The new charges will come into effect from April 3.
  
  According to a BSE circular, the exchange will charge Re 1 per trade for up to 5 lakh monthly transactions, 70 paise for 5-10 lakh monthly transactions and 60 paise for 10-20 lakh monthly transactions and so on. The lowest rate is 30 paise for over 40 lakh monthly transactions.
  
  “From an exchange perspective, it will help them attract volumes and lead to significant savings for highvolume players, but it will be a source of hardship for small and marginal traders, and to some extent, algo traders,“ said  , manging director, Churiwala Securities.
  
  Another broker, who did not wish to be named, said: “A lot of traders, jobbers, small traders and arbitrageurs will get affected as costs will go up significantly . They will shift to the NSE.“
  
  Arbitrageurs purchase and sell the same security at the same time in different markets to take advantage of the price difference. A jobber, on the other hand, trades in a particular stock and does so mainly in the cash segment.
  
  Market participants said the BSE, through this exercise, is looking to increase volumes and attract more bulk and block deals on the stock exchange.
  
  “The proposed change in the method of levying transaction charges at BSE from April 3, 2017, is in line with best-in-class practices in world markets," a BSE spokesperson said, adding: “The BSE had held several discussions with its members over the past year. The BSE expects to observe the effect of the same over a period post imple mentation and finetune it based on feedback to make it attractive to all section of participants.“
  
  The average daily (cash and derivatives) turnover on the BSE in the last three months stood at Rs 5,315 crore, while NSE recorded an average daily turnover of Rs 73,460.15 crore.
  
  Deena Mehta, managing director at Asit C Mehta Investment Intermediates, said the impact on small traders would pave the way for consolidation in the broking industry .
  
  “This will pave the way for consolidation and it is high time consolidation happens in the broking industry . Those who are not serious about the business and punch in orders for the sake of it will get most affected,“ said Mehta of Asit C Mehta Investment Intermediates.
