THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala   (Bevco), one of the biggest revenue generators for the state, is in a race against time to relocate their outlets from state and national highways in view of the recent   order.

 The apex court directive, dated December 15, 2016, that banned sale of liquor near state and national highways has hit the government owned corporation hard. The corporation has 270 liquor outlets in the state, out of which 183 are located within 500 meters limit of state and national highways.The order says that the license of liquor outlets and restaurants that serve liquor cannot be renewed after March 31, 2017. This means all 183 outlets of the Bevco have to be relocated.
 
 Despite being a government enterprise, the corporation officials are facing stiff resistance from locals when it comes to opening new liquor outlets in their neighbourhood. Quite a paradoxical situation, considering the fact that tipplers here have helped them set new sales records year after year.
 
 For example, Kuttoor Grama Panchayat in Thiruvalla has passed a resolution not to allow Bevco to open a new outlet anywhere in their limits.Their contention is that the new outlet in their neighbourhood would adversely affect the peaceful life of the residents here.
 
 In Thiruvananthapuram, residents of Njarakkavila near Kallambalam, outside the city limits, staged an agitation fol lowing which a new outlet had to shut down. The agitation was called off only after MLA B Sathyan intervened and promised them that he would do everything in his capacity to prevent the opening of new outlet.
 
 These agitations have support of political parties too, making it even more difficult for the authorities to overcome the resistance.
 
 Bevco MD H Venkatesh said that there were at least six places where they are facing resistance from local self governing bodies. The number of places where residents are up in arms against them is even more.
 
 “The main argument of the agitators is that it would affect the peaceful life of the neighbourhood. But it is a baseless argument. Bevco outlets are just shops that sell liquor, not a place to consume liquor,“ Venkatesh said.
 
 But the agitators beg to differ. According to Niji N G, a resident of Njarakkavila, the topography of the neighbourhood too was a reason for their opposition. "It is a rural area with deserted spots in between houses. We fear that tipplers would camp on these plots and eventually would become a nuisance to the public, especially women," Niji said.
 
 H Venkatesh said that they were trying to overcome the obstacles through talks and if it failed they would take the legal way since they were bound to implement the government policy.
 
 “Our main concern is that even if shops have to be shut even for a few days owing to this problem, it could affect the business greatly,“ he said.
 
