With just one day to go in  , the housemates are in serious discussion about   getting evicted. Later, they are also seen having a chat about life after   in the dinning area.   opens up talking about   and how he feels bad about being judgemental about him. He regrets for being a part making Bharani leave the show. 

 In the afternoon, the four final housemates are given a task named 'Lesa Lesa' on the account of World Heart Day. The housemates write what they feel on the balloons allotted for them and then cut the string and let the balloon fly. 
 
 Another task named 'Freeze and Release' is given by   Boss. While the all the housemates a frozen, the same person who entered during a similar task previously enters the house and applies cake on each and every contestant. Just while he is about to leave the house, the housemates are released and they rush to him and reciprocate the same. 
 
 In the evening, the housemates share their thoughts about their experience in the show with Bigg Boss in the confession room. Snehan break down into tears while sharing his thoughts. Afterwards, while the contestants are resting, they are frozen and two men enter the house playing 'thara thappatai'. Once the housemates are released, they start dancing to the music in celebration. 
 
 Snehan doesn't miss a chance to showcase his talent for poetry and shares a poetry on their journey in Bigg Boss Tamil. The other housemates too join him in singing a song thanking Bigg Boss. 
 
 Later in the night, the housemates are given a daily task called 'Autograph'. Each contestants given a t-shirt and the housemates are asked to write their message for the other person on their t-shirt. They are also asked to read out the message they have written for each contestant. 
 
 On day 97, Snehan and   discuss about staying in Bigg Boss show for 100 days. Later while preparing for lunch, the housemates are very tired with the all the tasks and not being able to sleep much. They all discuss about the stealing the diamond task and Bindu eating chillies, garlic and bitter gourd task.
 
 Meanwhile, Snehan is worried about how people will react once the final four contestants come out after the grand finale. 
 
 
