LUDHIANA:   are using   and uploading their selfies on their  right under the noses of   Yet another such incident has come to light in the  , Tajpur Road, in which three jail inmates uploaded their selfies -clicked inside the jail -on their Facebook accounts.

 On Tuesday, Division No.7 police booked two murder convicts -Gurpreet Singh and Raghuwinder Singh -and one murder undertrail, Govardhan, in this context. Sources said jail officials made a formal request to ADGP-Jail, Gaurav Yadav, to shift the accused in a hig her security jail.
 
 On 4 May, Gurpreet Singh had uploaded selfies of the trio on his Facebook account. After getting information, jail officials immediately inquired about it and also conducted checking. Although the accused admitted to have uploaded pictures, they failed to recover any mobile phone from them.
 
 Confirming the incident, jail superintendent SP Khanna said: “On 4 May, we got an alert that Gurpreet has uploaded some pictures three hours earlier on his Facebook profile. We probed into the matter and informed Division No. 7 police, af ter which all three inmates have been booked.“ When asked about the failure of recovering a mobile phone from their possession, Khanna replied: “Now, further investigation would be done by Division No. 7 police.“
 
 This is not the first time the inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail have kept officials on toes with their activated Facebook accounts, and the use of mobile phones in the premises.
 
 In March too, four jail inmates -Manish Kumar, Deepak Ghai, Rajinder Singh, and Amandeep Singh -were booked for allegedly stripping and thrashing a co-in mate Vicky.
 
 The inmates had also captured the entire incident on mobile phone, and one of them had uploaded the video on his Facebook profile.Jail officials had come to know about the incident only after the video was uploaded on Facebook.
 
 On Monday too, jail superintendent recovered four mobile phones from inside the jail premises. The mobile phones were found buried in a ground near the barracks.
 
 Sources said it was being probed if these mobiles were used by inmates who had been recently booked by Division No. 7 police.
 
