Taking the board exams is usually stressful, more so, because of what is at stake. We have all been through it and know how the weight of expectations from our families, teachers and relatives to crack it, actually affects us before the exams and the   post it, weighs us down. Unnerving questions like, ‘Are my preparations enough for this exam?’ ‘What if I am unable to attempt all questions in the given time limit?’ and ‘Will I fulfill my parents’ expectations?’ bother most  . 

 Clinical psychologist and author Seema Hingorrany states, “Stressing before the exams is bound to happen. This is not surprising — in fact it is quite normal to feel some apprehensions about exams.” Of course, many believe that the pressure to perform might actually end up egging students to do better. However, too much of pressure on them could lead to an unhealthy mental state and fill them with doubts, negativity and lack of confidence and concentration. 
 coping with the stress 
 
 Seema elaborates, “The best method of dealing with   is to learn how to manage the stress that comes along with any new challenge. Positive mindset is a cherished asset at any given point of time and acts as a magic wand during exams. If you think positive, you will never fear exams as you will be confident of giving your best.”
 
 
 
 Stress seems inevitable and needs to be dealt with effectively. Educationist Raghav Podar tells us about practical strategies that can help students deal with exam stress.
 
 
 
 Parents, families, society and peer put pressure on the kid to outdo the next child. Discussing in detail — about how much portion the child has revised, what marks he or she is likely to achieve, how the final exam is the only shot to the child’s chance at a successful life — will not help him/her succeed. Instead, it might result in more anxiety, remorse and eventually failure for the child.
 
 
 
 Unduly stressing out the child’s brain by pressurising him/her too much, leads the body to release a chemical called cortisol. While small amounts of cortisol is fine, with constant pressure for exams, you are stressing the child’s brain with unhealthy amounts of cortisol. The pre-frontal cortex, or the CEO of the brain, which controls the executive functions of the body, gets flooded with cortisol, thereby reducing its optimal capacity to perform or execute tasks well.
 
 
 
 Parents need to give the child’s brain A-DOSE of happiness. We need to get the body to release chemicals like: A:Adrenaline, D:Dopamine, O:Oxytocin, S:Serotonin and E:Endorphins (A-DOSE). These happy hormones will make the child feel confident, secure, positive and self-assured of his or her capabilities and skill sets. First of all, parents need to stop finding fault in what the child is not doing, and find things that are praiseworthy; recognise and appreciate these things, in private, and in front of others. Children are far more likely to listen to you through positive reinforcement rather than nagging or complaining.
 
 
 
 Even the day before the exam, encourage your child to spend some time doing his favourite activity. Let them play cricket or football or go out for a coffee with friends or even watch their favourite show. 
 Brain mapping done at the University of Illinois by Dr Chuck Hillman shows that children who had just a 20-minute brisk walk in the garden had brains that were far more active and receptive to learning than children who were quietly sitting and studying for hours. It is important to focus on the quality of learning more than the number of consecutive hours your child is sitting in front of a text book.
 
 
 
 In a study done in the UK, it was found that only 10 - 20 per cent of students are in the right mood before entering the exam. In India it might be even less. Indian students are typically anxious, nervous, tensed, stressed, going through last minute notes as they are asked to scurry through to their seat. Parents have made this out to be such a big deal — with mothers fasting, or the pen with which the child will write the exam being blessed by their God. They should stop making such a fuss and questioning the child’s abilities. Neither fasting nor getting the writing instrument blessed by God is going to change the child’s abilities. The mood the child enters the exam in, is critical to set the tone for the rest of that paper. The child must enter the exam hall confident, positive and happy that he has done a good job preparing for the exam and knowing he will do his best. The marks will automatically take care of themselves.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
