MUMBAI: Transitions are mostly uncomfortable in any walk of life. However, thanks to a beautiful guru (master) and shishya (pupil) relationship between them, the passing of the baton of being the strike bowler for the   from the traditional 'toecrusher'  , to the upcoming 'death overs-specialist'  , has been a smooth exercise.

 So, when Bumrah bowled an incredible super over to clinch a thriller for MI against the   at Rajkot, one of the first pats on his back came from none other than Malinga, who was overlooked by MI at the crunch for perhaps the first time in his nine-year career, which has seen him become the  's highest wicket-taker (149 scalps @18.69).
 
 "He's very happy, saying that I've given the responsibility to you. I'm saying no, you still have to take it. He's very happy because he's seen me evolve since 2013. I'm still learning from him, so there's a long way to go," Bumrah tells TOI in an exclusive interview.
 
 During that magnificent over, which saw Bumrah defend just 11 runs successfully while bowling to explosive batsmen like   and  , Bumrah displayed remarkable composure despite bowling a no ball and then a wide at the start itself. "In the IPL, this was the most high-pressure situation I've faced so far, because I've never bowled a super over in my life. However, I spoke to myself: 'Keep calm. Don't panic. Stick to your plan.' This is what I try to do whenever I'm in a pressure situation," he says.
 
 Interestingly, even as he kept his calm, his family wasn't able to watch Bumrah's heroics due to the tension involved. "They weren't watching, because whenever such a thing happens, my mom can't watch, she starts to pray all the time! My family wasn't able to watch it, because it was too much tension for them to bear.
 
 "My friends ask me all the time: 'How do you deal with so much pressure? We'll faint if we were in your place.' I tell them that this is my job, this is what I get paid for.'" The young gun from Ahmedabad elaborates on how he developed his unique ability to bowl yorkers consistently, which make him perhaps the best death-overs bowler in the world. "I started playing with the 'season-ball' quite late. I used to play a lot of tennis-ball cricket till my tenth standard, which I enjoyed. Over there, there's no length or slower ball. There's only ball which you've to bowl to get wickets - the yorker, otherwise you'll get hit because of the bounce. I was playing day in and day out there, bowling with the tennis ball. That could be a reason I'm able to bowl sometimes in the pressure situations."
 
 During that magical over, he also unleashed a few slow full tosses and yorkers. Surely, that's something he would've learnt from his senior pace bowling colleague at MI, who made life hell for the batsmen with exactly the same mix?
 "You constantly evolve your game. You've to bring something new because sooner or later the batsman will come to know what you are bowling. This is a new delivery which I'm still learning. Malinga usually bowls these kind of balls," Bumrah reveals.
 
 Did he train specifically with Malinga for this ball? "Not really, but usually I've a chat with him about what kind of situations can come up during the death overs," he replies.
 
 A decade separates them in age (Bumrah is 23 and Malinga 33), but there's a special chemistry between the Lankan ace and the India's rising star. "I share a good relationship with him. In 2013, when I came into the MI team straight from the Under-19 set-up, he himself came up to me and taught me many things.
 
 "Earlier, I didn't know how to bowl an outswinger. He taught me how to do it. He gave me the confidence that even though I've a different action, that doesn't mean it won't work. 'It will work and have confidence in that,' he told me. Even when I'm not playing the IPL, I still talk to him about what kind of things I should do to improve myself," says Bumrah.
 
 Being preferred to a man who was MI's trump card not so long ago, for the most important six balls of that game automatically makes the Gujarat lad the leading bowler of the team.
 
 "I don't think like that. If he would've bowled, I would've been happy and vice versa. It's a great feeling that the team has so much of faith in me. One or two years back, if you've Malinga in your team, nobody else will bowl at the death or the Super Over," the youngster acknowledges.
 
 The influence of Malinga on him reflects when he tells you why he doesn't sledge batsmen. "If I start to do that, I think I lose control. I don't want to drift away from the situation. I want to focus on the things which I have to do. I'm aggressive, I always look to contain the batsmen, but I don't sledge. I've learnt that from Malinga.
 
 "When I started playing cricket, I used to get angry, aggressive, I used to do stupid things in front of the batsman. I could go and say anything. But as I played more cricket with him, I realized that the more calmer you're the better you're, because at that time your brain starts to work and you come to know what things you've to do. Malinga told me not to get very angry. You've to keep a calm head and focus ahead," he elaborates.
 
