
 
 
  I have no enemies. Everybody is my friend.   I am fighting them politically.
  
  
 
  It is nothing but propaganda, dikhava.   don’t decide on dikhava. They decide on development. AAP is not a political party. What has its contribution been to nation? They did not fight in our Independence struggle. They did not go to jail during Emergency. I have been fighting a political battle for last 70 years. We Akalis have been in jail for 19 months during Emergency. People know our sacrifices.
  
  
 
  I have come to Malwa only yesterday. But I know these are just propagandists. At the end of the day they are from Delhi. Dilliwalahs don’t understand the culture and problems of Punjab. And Punjab knows who to trust.
  
  
 
  Everybody was hurt. Baat hee aisi thi. We took the incidents seriously and handed over the probe to  . I agree, some delays may have happened but we were always serious in catching such mischievous elements.
  
  
 
  What is the meaning of Panth? It does not   radicalism. It means manas dharm (humanity), guru ka kaam, guru ka raasta. There is a difference between radicalism and religiousness. As a chief minister, I have worked towards communal harmony.
  
  
 
  We are fighting these elections on overall development and communal harmony. Nobody can fault us on development.
  
  
 
  This election has become personal vendetta. Politics has now become an exercise of digging personal dirt – be it here in Punjab or at the Centre. It is no longer a war of ideologies. They have made it very personal with baseless charges. They say such disrespectful things ‘Badal ko andar karna hai’ as if there is no law of the land here. We have done no wrong things.
  
  
 
  It ( ) is very high. But it is high all over India. That would be our priority.
  
  
 
  There is no drug problem in Punjab. It is nothing but an attempt to paint Punjab in a poor light. First, we have borne the tag of terrorists. Now they say drug addicts. There is no such problem.
  
  
 
  It is essential to concentrate on technical  . We would have to work our courses and institutes to train children after they pass out of school. These have to be in different vocations, fields.
  
  
 
  There is always scope for work in nation building. And I mean not just Punjab but in the entire nation. Every government has scope for improvement. Whatever work we do is always less for the welfare of scheduled castes, farmers and the financially vulnerable sections of the society. We are committed. And people of Punjab know this.
  
  
 
  No. Everybody faced problems, there is no denying that. But when a sewerage line is being laid inside a town or a highway is being constructed through it, everybody faces problems for years. But once it is done it gives relief to everyone. This was required to remove black money from the  . Surely there were problems faced by the people but once the benefits become visible they will realise that this step had to be taken.
  
  
 
  No there has been no such thing. Sharaab ka sawaal hee nahin hai (There is no question of seizure of liquor). We are committed to free and fair elections. We don’t want any malpractices here.
  
  
 
  You wait till next week. You would yourself see which way the electorate is turning.   with   would ride back to power in Punjab much to the shock of these  .
  
  
 
  Punjab will vote for us. The youth respect our experience and our vision for Punjab. 
