NOIDA: After broaching the subject to newly elected MLA   on Sunday, the   members met   Inspector General of police, Meerut on Tuesday over deteriorating law and order situation in the city. They also discussed the alleged use of drugs by Nigerian students in college campus as well as residential areas of Greater Noida and the recent resultant hostility against them.

 “We met IG Anand in his office in Meerut today and discussed the need for better policing in the city. Rampant kidnappings, thefts, chain snatchings, murder etc. have risen to alarming proportions in the recent past which is why we urged for this meeting,” said N P Singh, president Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) who led a three-member team including Sanjeev Kumar, RWA general secretary sector 51 and Mahipal Singh, member FONRWA.
 
 Singh apprised Anand that while crime in the city is continuously on the rise, there's a need to enhance the strength of a dedicated police force, equipped with latest electronic gadgets and vehicles to tackle the daunting task. “The existing force (be it local, traffic or women personnel) and measures are extremely meagre for a large population as that of Noida city. Crimes on women have been quite enormous which require trained women personnel as there’s only one women police station for the city with hardly any women personnel in it,” said Singh who demanded that the district Gautam Budh Nagar should be upgraded to the commissionerate level with the creation of the posts of DIG and IG.
 
 “Noida comes under NCR region and hence has its own pressures. Also, since elections are over, it’s time that attention be drawn to strengthening the law and order of the city,” said Mahipal Singh, member FONRWA.
 
 While maintaining shortage of police force, IG Anand assured the RWA delegation that he’ll take up the matter with chief secretary and the state government.
 
 Further, given the recent attacks on Nigerian students in Greater Noida, the FONRWA delegation apprised IG Anand that “most Nigerian students have been reportedly found to use and distribute drugs on college campuses and residential sectors of Greater Noida and that their activity needs to be checked. There have been many complaints against them by residents regarding their drinking in open, consuming drugs, aggressive behaviour and playing loud music etc.,” said Singh.
 
 IG Anand however maintained that since investigation on the matter is currently underway by SP Sujata Singh and SSP Dharmendra Singh who have been subsequently asked to file a report on the matter, he will wait for their report.
 
 In the meantime IG Anand has agreed to visit FONRWA office on Saturday (April 01) on the request of the visiting delegation to meet sector RWAs and hear their individual issues regarding law and order of the city and take corrective action.
 
