JODHPUR: With the   already getting into election mode, the Congress too has started its preparations. Close on the heels of BJP’s “win the booth” strategy, the Congress leaders have also geared up to galvanise the   by holding whirlwind meetings with block workers.

 Party strengthening activities witnessed a surge in Jodhpur, home town of former chief minister Ashok Gehlot, with the arrival of   Vivek Bansal and national secretary of Mahila Congress Veena Deshwal in Jodhpur.
 
 The party leaders told the workers that Gehlot has been entrusted with the responsibility of Gujarat elections and will not be able to concentrate on and participate in party activities here.
 
 “Though he will certainly be joining us later, we should do our own bit as honest and dedicated party workers and strengthen the party to ensure victory in next assembly elections,” the party leaders called upon the workers.
 
 Bansal, who arrived in Jodhpur on Thursday, went on a meeting spree on Friday. He began with a meeting of DCC members, followed by a meeting with Jodhpur Mahila Congress officials in presence of national secretary of Mahila Congress Veena Deshwal and Pradesh Mahila president Rehana Riyaz. 
 
 Addressing the party leaders and workers, Bansal called upon them to bury all the differences and gear up for the upcoming elections.
 
 “We all should bury our differences and work with unity and determination to strengthen the party and uproot BJP from state in the next election,” said Bansal. 
 
 He later held separate meetings with the heads of six blocks in a whirlwind manner taking a stock of the party’s position in the blocks.
 
 Similarly, Deshwal, while addressing a separate meeting with the women workers of the party from Jodhpur unit of Mahila Congress, called on them to go to the people and tell them about the anti-people policies and activities of the present government.
 
 Recently,   suffered a loss in the form of death of ex-MLA Jugal Kabra. 
 
 It faced another setback when a case was lodged against Rajendra Singh Solanki. Kabra and Solanki were two important lieutenants of Gehlot.
 
 
