BENGALURU: With the   ban on sale of liquor within 500 metres (220 metres for Karnataka) of national and state highways coming into force later this year, Karnataka could be staring at a huge revenue loss. This is primarily because nearly 45% of the liquor vends, including bars, pubs and high-end hotels, in the state are along the highways. Excise officials said the state government may lose Rs 4,000 crore as a result of the ban on liquor sale along highways. Of the 10,149 establishments, at least 5,957 are likely to be hit in Karnataka.

 While the government lost around Rs 1,500 crore in revenue due to demonetization in the last financial year, the excise department was hoping to make good the shortage by bumping up its   for this financial year by 9.32%. The department, which expects to meet its target of earning Rs 16,510 crore in revenue for the previous financial year (2016-17), has set itself a target of Rs 18,050 crore for the current financial year. In fact, to mop up more money, the state has declared 17 slabs of additional excise duty and increased the same by 6% on some slabs and by 10% and 16% on others.
 
 A senior official with the finance department said the reason they chose to increase the slabs was because they were confident that excise revenue would remain unaffected, but the Supreme Court order came as a bolt from the blue.What's worse is that the ban comes a time when revenue from stamps and registration has been dipping due to a slow down in the realty sector post demonetization, he added.
 
 The ban may also put thousands of jobs at risk in the hotel and   if many five-star hotels, restaurants, pubs and liquor vends stop serving liquor. Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad and Belagavi will be the worst hit as many bars, restaurants and liquor outlets are along the highways within city limits.
 
 OPTIONS AHEAD
 
 To minimize the impact on revenue, various states are already considering denotifying state and national highways within cities and towns and turning them into urban roads. However, official sources said Karnataka cannot tread the same path as it'd hugely burden the municipal corporations, especially BBMP, as the move would involve huge cost of maintenance and development of these highways within the city.
 
 State excise commissioner  , who is facing flak for inept handling of the crisis, said, “We held a meeting to find the alternative routes but cannot share information with the media.“
 
