NEW  : Thousands of   in the city would abstain from work on Thursday to   against the stringent suggestions made to the Law Commission by Bar Council of India for lawyers who go on   or abstain from court work. 

 The March 15 suggestions also spoke about debarring and fining advocates. “These arbitrary suggestions would only curtail our rights and freedom with which we practise,” said New Delhi Bar Association president Santosh Mishra. 
 
 He said there would be a protest march around noon outside BCI’s office. “We are expecting somewhere around 3,000-4,000 lawyers,” Mishra said, adding that they would be from all the six district courts at Patiala House, Tis Hazari, Rohini, Karkardooma, Saket and Dwarka. 
 
 When asked about the inconvenience the strike was likely to cause, Mishra said the lawyers would have other counsel proxy for them in court. Rajiv Khosla, former president of Delhi High Court Bar Association and Delhi Bar Association, said the strike was not restricted to NCR. “They (BCI) are saying no association can strike. When they don’t strike, lawyers are accused of corruption. According to the suggestions, we will be fined, but it can lead to extortion and open a Pandora’s box. A formula has to evolved where corruption in judiciary lessens and grievances of lawyers are addressed,” said Khosla, adding that imposters should be punished. 
 
 “BCI does not have majority in about 16 states, where elections to bar councils have not taken place. Whenever rules not in the interest of people are brought in, dissidents hold strikes. Lawyers from various cities will be striking on Thursday,” said Jaiveer Singh Chauhan, honorary secretary of Delhi Bar Association and official spokesperson of the coordination committee of all bar associations.
 
 BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra said, “A totally baseless rumour is being spread by some people. Bar Council of India is to protect the interests and rights of the advocates. Supreme Court has been telling BCI and the state bar councils to take steps to curb unjustified strikes. Some people have no interest in the profession and indulge in unruly activities, resulting in the maligning of the image of the bar and affecting the poor litigants.” 
 
