GURUGRAM: Two persons, including an engineer, were killed in separate accidents in the city on Tuesday.

 Satish Upadhyay (45), an assistant GM with Emaar India, died in a   near Ireo Victory Valley in Sector 67, barely 1km from his Park View Spa residence on Sohna Road, around 8am. Satish, originally from Ghaziabad, is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. 
 
 Police said Satish had apparently gone out for a morning walk when the accident took place. Some local residents found Satish lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to Civil Hospital in a serious condition. Satish, who had sustained serious injuries in the head and was bleeding profusely, was subsequently referred to Safdarjung Hospital but he succumbed on the way. On the other hand, as he did not return home even after a few hours, his wife called his office to find out whether he went to work straightway from the morning walk. When she did get any information about his whereabouts, she called her brother Vijay, who, in turn, lodged a complaint with the police. 
 
 ASI Baljeet Singh at Badshapur police station said he had received a call from the Civil Hospital and came to know of the accident late on Tuesday morning. “We are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to find the vehicle that hit Satish. Since it was early morning, not many people had been out on the street,” Singh added.
 
 Emaar has expressed its condolences to the bereaved family. “All efforts made by general public and authorities to help him failed, thereby leaving us all in grief of losing a dear colleague and a wonderful human being,” a statement issued by the company read. A few hours later in the day, a bus conductor was hit by a Volkswagen Polo car on the highway near Ambience Mall.
 
 Anil Lal (22), originally from Chamoli in Uttarakhand, was crossing the road as the bus had stopped to pay toll when the speeding car hit him. In the impact, he landed awkwardly on the road and his head hit the concrete. Lal was taken to the Civil Hospital, where doctors referred him to Safdarjung Hospital. But, his condition deteriorated on the way and he succumbed to his injuries. 
 
 Bus owner Sudhir said the vehicle was carrying schoolchildren for a trip to Manesar. 
 
 ASI Surender of DLF Phase III police post said after the accident, the car driver fled the spot, leaving the four-wheeler behind. “Lal died due to brain hemorrhage. The body has been handed over to his relatives after the post-mortem,” he added.
 
 An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence). But, the police are yet to zero in on the driver, he added.
 
 
