CHANDIGARH: A day after   (PU) senate gave final approval to the fee hike by 12.5% for different courses in the teaching departments and regional centres of PU from the 2017-18 session, different student outfits of the varsity came out to protest and submit a memorandum to oppose the move. While the student parties with political affiliations, including NSUI and SOI, submitted memorandum to the office of vice-chancellor, SFS following its style of protest marched across the campus and burnt effigy of PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover. The student outfits are demanding rollback of the decision and have threatened to intensify the protests otherwise.

 “In the  , decision of fee hike was approved for different courses. This is the   in the history of university as it is against the very concept of university itself. The university has been under financial crisis due to insufficient funding from the Centre and Punjab government. Last semester, the authorities also doubled the examination fee,” said SFS president Daman Preet. 
 
 He added that the authorities have been implementing the agenda of the   to privatize and commercialize the higher education. Over 150 students marched from the Arts Block 1 to Student Centre and burnt the effigy of the VC there. SFS will also submit a memorandum to VC to rollback the decision and “struggle will be further intensified”, said SFS president.
 
 National Student’s Union of India (NSUI) on Monday submitted a memorandum to the office of vice-chancellor on the hike in the university’s fee. “The massive fee hike by 12.5% will jeopardize the future of students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS). The burden cannot be borne by the families of such students and they will be forced to withdraw their wards from studies,” said NSUI state president Gurjot Sandhu. NSUI demanded a complete rollback in the fee hike and constitution of a committee with department representatives to debate on the issue. Besides NSUI, Students’ Organization of India (SOI) also submitted a memorandum to the office of the vice-chancellor opposing the same.
 
 While the student parties said they were concerned about the EWS students, the senate on Sunday had also decided to create a separate budget which will be allocated for giving scholarships and fee waivers to EWS students. For instance, students, who have qualified their class XII examination from government or government-aided schools with annual family income up to Rs 5 lakh, will be eligible for up to 50% concessions in the tuition fee.
 
 Interestingly, while the matter of fee hike was discussed in the senate meeting on Sunday, dean of University of Instruction, PU, prof Dinesh Gupta had informed the House that the exercise was done by keeping the student council of PU in the loop. Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president Nishant Kaushal said the body would ensure that enough scholarships and freeships are provided to the students so that no meritorious student is denied education because of his economic background.
 
