SURAT: If Baben village, which is located 2km from Bardoli town in Surat district, is today considered one of the best villages of the state, then some credit should go to this couple too. Baben was declared the best village in the state when   was its sarpanch in 2010-11. And this year, his wife   has been elected sarpanch of the village. What is so special about a couple becoming sarpanch of a village? This is a common question of people. The speciality lies in their dream of bringing about social development in their village, which they had nurtured during their courtship of two years until 1993 when they got married. 

 In 1991 when they were studying in a college in Bardoli, Bhavesh and Falguni fell in love and decided to get married. However, there was stiff opposition from their families. Bhavesh and Falguni told their parents they will not marry anyone else and would wait for their consent which finally came in 1993. During this two years, they wove dreams for all-round development of Baben that had a population of 7,000, which now has grown to 15,600. 
 
 On the day of their marriage, Bhavesh and Falguni took an oath to bring about social development in Baben with love. Bhavesh said, “We love our village and so decided to make it best in Gujarat. Our motto was to have all the facilities of a city in Baben, but people continue to lead a simple life of village without losing our age-old values.” 
 
 Bhavesh achieved his aim in 2010-11 when Baben was declared the best village in the state.
 
 “I learnt social service from my husband. He organizes many events to raise money for poor. We never neglect them. We have built a hospital in the village and it will be inaugurated soon. Baben already had good roads, electricity, water supply and school,” Falguni, who is also director of  , said.
 
 Bhavesh is Bardoli taluka BJP president and vice-chairman of  . He also runs  . 
 
 The couple says like on all previous Valentine's Day, this time too their love remains Baben only.
 
