MUMBAI: Doubting a   accused’s claims that he had undergone a series of   tests on court premises in the presence of strict security, a sessions court on Friday rejected his plea for temporary release to donate his   to his ailing cancer-stricken younger brother. The court was alarmed on how the accused, Muzammil Kirkire (21), who has been in jail since January last year, had submitted a certificate, dated November 26, received from a reputed city hospital, showing that he was the only match in the family for his brother.

 Stating that the version given by Muzammil’s relatives and lawyers was false, the court said that if a strange pathology technician had come to the court and taken blood sample with a syringe, needle and using spirit, the guards who produced the accused from jail would have objected and brought it to the notice of the court. “Even otherwise, the entire City Civil Court is surrounded by security of police. If anyone, even a doctor, has to enter the court campus with such syringe, needles, etc, certainly security would have objected the same and first of all would have directed him to obtain the permission of the court to enter,” the judge said.
 
 Muzammil and four other family members were arrested for the murder of Asif Akhtar (40) at Mahim in January 2016. In June 2016, his bail plea was rejected. He then filed a plea in the Bombay high court.
 
 Filing the plea for temporary release before the sessions court on December 23, he submitted that the doctor’s certificate mentioned that the patient needed stem cell transplantation as soon as possible and that Muzammil was the only suitable   who was a 100% match. Pointing out that there was nothing to show that any court had ever permitted him to undergo such tests, the court, doubting the hospital report, called on the doctor to find out how and when they were conducted. The doctor in turn told the court that the certificate submitted to the court was based on the reports brought in by the relatives of the accused.
 
 When the court sought a reply from the accused and his family on how the tests report sent to the hospital were conducted, they said that during an earlier hearing, they had arranged for a pathological technician who came to court and took the samples.
 
 Doubting Muzammil’s intentions, the court said that he would have taken the court’s prior permission to undergo the tests. The court also pointed out that the application was moved almost a month after the doctor had issued the certificate.
 
 
