KOCHI: As eight mouth and foot painters assembled their brushes and canvases at   on Sunday evening, people swarmed around the venue in awe to watch a rare event unfold before their eyes. And as the brushstrokes continued, little by little, the crowd stood stock still as if in a trance. The painters were busy; but unknown to them their works were weaving magic among the crowd of happy onlookers. 

 Ganesh Kumar, a noted mouth painter, drew a simple but unambiguous work - a wheelchair stuck at the bottom platform labelled 1800 and the top of the stairway was labelled 2017 with Biennale and IFFK. This simple piece pointed to the issue of disabled-friendly venues for art even after the world had progressed tremendously over the centuries.
 
 "Biennale, IFFK and other such big art and culture events are away from our reach. How can we access such art aspects of our society which are our tools of liberation, if it is held in such a disabled-unfriendly setting? It is easy to create a disabled-friendly system in the modern world," Ganesh said.
 
 He added that he was using the opportunity to register his protest and convey an important message that remains unaddressed at such massive platforms. Another mouth painter,   also painted a flight of stairs at the bottom of which a person on a wheelchair stays clueless while the rest of the world skips and dances in colours while climbing the stairs.
 
 The event, which was organized by Indian Mouth and Foot Painting Artists (IMFPA), with the support of   (KBF). Eight artists from south India gathered for a live painting show.
 
 "What these exceptional artists really need is exposure because all of them are on par with world-class artists, yet they are not equated with regular artists despite their calibre. We need such kind of platforms to bring them up to the same credit as other regular artists are served with," said  , who heads IMFPA.
 
 The association founded in 1963 has 800 members worldwide and provides stipends to member artists while digitalizing and replicating their artworks. The group also helps such artists to feel at home by giving them a fraternity they can identify with.
 
 "Initially I had a reticence in painting with mouth instead of hands as I was apprehensive about how people might be viewing it. However, once I found an entire community of people who function just like me, the passion overcame with inspiration and I have worked unremittingly," Raveendran said.
 
