NAGPUR:   do not feel that they are different at the summer camp. Such camps help them to become a part of the mainstream, said  .

 Her son Naitik Pudke, who is orthopaedically handicapped, is one of the participants at the summer camp for special kids organized by Nagpur Minicipal Corporation (NMC) under the umbrella of ‘Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan’ (SSA) at Dhantoli. 
 
 More than 170 special children have signed up for NMC’s summer camp which started form April 25. The theme of the camp is ‘Ability before Disability’.
 
 The camp is being held at three centres, Yashwant Stadiuma at Dhantoli, Lal Bahadur NMC School at Medical Square and Ramabai Ambedkar School at Indora Square.
 
 Abhijeet Raut, project coordinator of SSA, said that the camp aimed to create awareness among parents about their children’s potential. “Parents only focus on the condition of their ward and neglect their creative side.” 
 
 He further added, “Disability has overshadowed ability of these children and we aim at breaking this stereotypes.”
 
 Raut said that children suffering from various disabilities have enrolled for the camp.
 
 Activities like singing, dancing, swimming, yoga, meditation and computation skills, designed as per the needs of the children, are being taught at the workshop.
 
 Surekha Dehare, a parent whose daughter suffers from cerebral palsy, said that special children are neglected by the society. “Children become introverts because of such attitude and treat themselves as disabled. Such workshops boost children’s confidence and help them develop interpersonal skills.”
 
 Stressing the importance of developing children’s emotions, Raut said “The camp has helped some children become professionals.”
 
 He further said children’s parents are also being encouraged to participate in activities. It gives them a break from everyday activities, he added.
 
 Additional commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare said that the civic body aimed to engage maximum special children under the project. “Our focus is on developing their abilities. We want them to dominate the disabilities.”
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
