KOLKATA: The proposal in the state budget to reduce stamp duty on various transactions related to stock exchanges is likely to give a boost to financial business in the city and would help in the long run to make Kolkata the second financial hub after Mumbai, feel financial experts. 

 State finance minister Amit Mitra has proposed to reduce stamp duty on proprietary transactions through exchanges, currency, interest, debt securities and bonds. This has assumed significance because Kolkata has a long financial history and at one point of time,   (CSE) was the second biggest stock exchange in the country after BSE. 
 
 A source in   (NSE) said the City of Joy has a daily turnover of a whopping Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore on account of equity, commodity and currency transactions and is among top four in the country in financial transactions. In proprietary transactions, where an investor is buying securities directly from the market, Kolkata is the leader. Currently, there is a stamp duty of 50 paise for every Rs 5,000 transaction. But, considering the volume it is huge. 
 
 When asked about the implication of the proposal, Mitra told TOI that this relief would incentivise and stimulate the transactions in Kolkata. “It will be a special attraction for the proposed finance hub where 27 banks and financial institutions have already taken space. I hope that Kolkata would return to its original glory of being the financial hub of India,” he added. 
 
 The stamp duty in stock exchanges related transaction in the state was one of the highest. Ajit Khandelwal, director of   and former director of CSE, said ANMI (Association of National Exchanges Members) had given representation to the state finance minister a few months back for rationalisation of stamp duty on securities transactions because it was in the higher side compare to other states. “High stamp duty leads to export of transaction to other states where it is less,” an ANMI member added. 
 
 He said in the city lot of high networth individuals do proprietary transaction (transactions for themselves without any broker). High stamp duty was a disincentive for such transactions.   of Shriram Insite pointed out that the reduction in stamp duty will incentivise transactions here.
 
