NAGPUR: The Road Safety Week event seemed limited to speeches by government officials. Promises of enforcement agencies strictly dealing with offenders seems to be just an eyewash.

 The latest example is the   where TOI found a majority of two-wheeler riders entering the premises without helmets in blatant violation of traffic rules. 
 
 The office on January 9 inaugurated fortnight long   to create  . In the past too, the then RTO S Shelke had issued a notification making helmet compulsory for his subordinates while entering the office. 
 
 On Wednesday, TOI spotted hundreds of two-wheeler riders without helmets and few four-wheelers with the banned dark film too were spotted entering the premises and RTO officials preferred to turn a blind eye. The department’s apathetic attitude has exposed its casual approach towards traffic violation. 
 
 “The Road Safety Fortnight is being observed all over India but the RTO and   have totally ignored the basic cause of road accidents,” said traffic expert Vinay Kunte.
 
 Traffic expert and lawyer Tushar Mandlekar too said that the awareness week was organized as a mere routine. The traffic rules should be enforced from both RTO and police department, he said. “Do they wear seat belt or helmet?” Mandlekar asked.
 
 With increasing traffic and rising accidents, the use of helmets has become important, he said. Even officials of the department could be sighted entering office premises without helmet. The question is: why no action is taken against such violators by the traffic police and regional transport officials?
 
 The department, however, consider the RTO guidelines on helmet while conducting driving test. A candidate is given a permanent licence only if one follows all the rules, which includes wearing helmet. Moreover, from 2015, the transport department had started talking an indemnity bond from two-wheeler riders which says that the department would not be held responsible for any untoward incident caused to the rider for not wearing headgear. Despite attempts, Rural RTO Sharad Jichkar, was not available for comments.
 
