TRICHY:   across the delta region have expressed disappointment at the allocation of Rs 7,000 crore as   in the state   presented in the assembly on Thursday saying it was inadequate. They wanted the amount to be enhanced to at least Rs 15,000 crore which could be disbursed to all needy farmers. 

 The Rs 137 crore announced as ‘Ways and Means Advance (WMA)’ to sugarcane farmers had already been distributed to cane growers last year. Instead, there was no mention about the remaining Rs 117 crore to be released to them, they alleged. However, the farmers welcomed the announcement to set up Farmers Producer Group which would enable them to get the required price for their produce. 
 
 Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to CPI, said that Tamil Nadu was reeling under severe drought and the entire farm lands were being kept vacant. “In these circumstances, how can the government attain the target of 100 lakh tonnes of food grains for 2017-18,” asked Sangam district secretary Ayilai Siva Suriyan. He ridiculed the announcement that 3.5 lakh “economically weaker” farmers would get free plots saying only the numbers had changed as similar schemes were being announced every year. “Had the scheme been implemented effectively every year, almost all beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu would have been residing in their own houses today,” he stated. 
 
 Crop loan allocation should be raised to at least Rs 15,000 crore to be disbursed to all needy farmers, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R Vimalnathan. “Minister P Thangamani had earlier said that there will not be power cuts anymore as the state has surplus energy. If this was true, why didn’t they start providing new power connections for irrigation purposes to the farmers as the scheme had been suspended since 2010”, he asked. However, he said that farmers wholeheartedly welcomed the announcement of setting up Farmers Producer Group. 
 
 Raja Chidambaram, general secretary of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, Perambalur described the budget as a mirage as everything was remaining only on paper and in reality no farmer would benefit. “Minister said that the area of sugarcane cultivated earlier has come down due to water shortage. But the reason behind it is non-settlement of dues by sugar mills in crores of rupees. So, the government should sanction the required fund to the ten cooperative and two public sector sugar mills in the state”, he stated.
 
 Without allotting fund for establishing the required infrastructure and strengthening the existing ones, the government would not attain the target of producing 100 lakh tonnes of food grains, says the president of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association Cauvery S Dhanapalan. He added that 36,000 water bodies and 24,000 kilometres of water ways had to be desilted and bunds strengthened across delta districts alone. 
 
 “Out of one rupee allotted for agriculture sector, 0.65 paise is spent for salary while the remaining 0.35 paise goes for free power, incentives and insurance schemes. Nothing remains for the development of agriculture.,” he said and demanded that 65 per cent of the budget allocation be set apart for agriculture.
 
 Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of  , expressed disappointment at the budget and accused the finance minister of neglecting the drought situation prevailing in the state and the plight of farmers. “Farmers in the drought-hit state have for long been demanding waiver of all crop loans sanctioned by nationalised banks. But the budget has not mentioned a word about that”, he said.
 
