The solution to the political and administrative crises that have gripped Tamil Nadu lies in the governor finding answers to three pertinent questions. 

 First, should he give credence to O Panneerselvam's claim that he was made to resign under duress and is that reason enough for him to rescind his own order of accepting OPS' resignation?
 
 Secondly, should V K Sasikala's claim to form the government be given primacy as she has submitted a list of MLAs supporting her?
 
 And finally, is stability of the government the prime concern if Sasikala has numbers, should she be sworn in immediately or should he wait for the verdict in the disproportionate assets case against her, expected in a few days?
 
 There are no two opinions on the governor's discretionary powers enshrined in Article 163 of the Constitution. The Article says “the decision of the governor in his discretion shall be final“ and the validity of that “shall not be called in question on the ground that he ought or ought not to have acted in his discretion.“
 
 But the Constitution does not give any guideline on how the governor should act. Many things are done as per healthy precedence, said retired judge K Chandru. Law is clear that “any test of strength of MLAs should be done only on the floor of the assembly,“ he said. Since the TN crisis was one week old, any delay in the governor's decision would lead to horse trading, said Chandru.
 
 Union home minister Rajnath Singh has said the decision would be that of the governor, but sources said the governor would not decide in a hurry. OPS' claim that he was forced to resign would not hold much wa ter, felt Chandru. “If he had signed under du ress, he was not under prolonged illegal con finement after that.
 
 What prevented him from informing the governor about it immediately after he came out of Poes Garden,“ he asked.
 
 Law does not mandate that CM sumbit hisher resignation to the governor in person, said political analyst M Kasinathan. Only in the case of an MLA or MP resigning his or her post, the law mandates that the speaker meet the representative in person before deciding.
 
 Having accepted OPS' resignation, allowing him to withdraw the resignation may set bad precedence, said Kasinathan. Still, if OPS provides proof of majority support, the governor is well within his right to give him a chance to test it on the floor of the House.
 
 S Prabakaran, designated senior advocate and cochairman of Bar Council of India, said the governor had to satisfy for himself the stability quotient of the government before swearing in someone as chief minister.
 
 “He is entitled to take a reasonable time to process the claim of candidates before inviting them to form the gover nment. There should not be any administrative vacuum, and those having a majority among MLAs must be facilitated to form the government. After all, a democratic government runs under the seal of the governor“.
 
