BHOPAL: Former chief minister and the seniormost legislator in the State Assembly,   said on Tuesday said that   to him or even take his phone calls. The veteran BJP leader made this allegation during Question Hour after observing that the government had not replied to queries raised by him on acquisition of land for a garbage-dumping enclosure by the   (BMC).

 “The government hasn’t replied to my second question. I called Vivek Aggarwal, but he does not pick up my phone. Bureaucrats do not listen to me, and they don’t even talk. This is the situation of the bureaucracy in the state,” an irate Gaur said. Aggarwal is commissioner, urban development department and secretary to chief minister  . Till June 30 last year, Gaur was home minister in the state. He was asked by the BJP high-command to step down as minister under an internal party rule.
 
 Gaur’s allegation against bureaucrats immediately drew support from the newly-elected Congress leader of Opposition Ajay Singh. “A former chief minister and most senior MLA of this House says he calls bureaucrats and they don’t speak with him. If this is his condition, imagine what the other MLAs are facing,” Singh said.
 
 The octogenarian former CM had asked minister for urban development Maya Singh: “How much land has been acquired for the garbage dumping yard in Bhanpur by the municipal corporation?” He asked for details regarding the measurement of the plot and its revenue record numbers. He also asked for the number of habitations, residential colonies and population in these areas. He also inquired if pollution from the garbage-dumping yard was spreading diseases among the residents in nearby areas.
 
 Gaur said that 93% of the population living around the garbage dumping yard were suffering from serious ailments. To that the department’s reply was: “There is no scientific report on this matter.”
 
 When contacted by TOI, Aggarwal refused to comment on the former chief minister’s charges. He, however, said that Maya Singh has proposed a joint visit by department officials and Gaur to the Bhanpur garbage dumping site.
 
