NEW DELHI: The   can now set up campuses abroad. After advocating more autonomy to the premier management institutes and giving them the power to grants degrees, HRD Minister   introduced the   in the   on Thursday, which would confer statutory powers on them. 

  The Bill enables the institutions "to set-up centres of management studies and allied areas outside India in accordance with guidelines laid down by the   and in accordance with the provisions of the laws in force in such foreign country". IIMs would be declared as "institutions of national importance" with Board of Governors (BOG) as the principal executive body of each of them. The bill also empowers IIMs to appoint their own chairperson. 
 
  The BOG will appoint the director (now termed Chief Executive Officer) of IIMs, who has so far been appointed by Centre. The search-cum-selection committee to be constituted by the board will consist of chairperson and three members chosen from eminent administrators, industrialists, educationists, scientists, technocrats and management specialists. The BOG of each institute shall consist of a chairperson, one nominee each of Centre and state government, four eminent persons (including a woman) distinguished in fields of education, industry, commerce, social service or public administration. 
 
 Two faculty members, one member from SC or ST and up to five persons co-opted from the alumni or who are members of the society of the existing institute would also be members of the Board. It will have at least three women members. 
 
 An earlier draft of the Bill had the provision of the President being the Visitor and choosing the director, but the HRD ministry removed the provision to grant more autonomy to the institutes. IIMs till now had been registered as societies and unable to grant degrees, including PhD, to their students.
 
 In the "statement of objects and reasons", Javadekar said while PG Diploma in Management Programme (equivalent to MBA) was relatively unaffected, the Fellow Programme in Management (equivalent to PhD), without the formal degree nomenclature, has not been able to attract enough students required to develop a strong research base in the country.
 
 In the statement, he said reservation in admissions will be provided as per Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006.
 
 The Governing Board of IIMs will evaluate and review the performance of the institute within first three years of establishment and thereafter at least once in every three years.
 
 The bill also lays down that there would be a Coordination Forum, with an eminent person as its chairman. This forum would discuss issues which are of common interest to all the IIMs.
 
 
