On a sultry Wednesday evening,   billow up from  , which, like many others in Bengaluru, is being dug up for the nth time. Little seems promising about this dusty,   so common to the city now – until you turn into a nondescript little kachcha road. At the end, like manna, lies   Four years ago, it was rescued by residents from the jaws of death – filth, unsavoury elements, dirt and degradation. Today, an 800 metre walkway borders the lake, which is surrounded by trees and various flowering plants; the lake itself is frequented daily by 1,700 people – parents, children, walkers and joggers – and a senior citizens’ area and a children’s park see hectic activity. Unfortunately, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) consistent failure to deliver on the conditions of a three-year Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with the Chinnappanahalli Lake Development Trust might mean that this haven in an unforgiving summer may no longer remain so.
 
 Prabhashankar Rai (59), President and Managing Trustee of the Trust, has been somewhat of a lone crusader for the lake for over four years now. But today, his mounting frustration with the civic body and apathetic residents has led to him deciding to exit the Trust, and with it, give up all stake in the lake and the MoU by the end of the year.
 
 In 2011, Rai was living in a building just behind the then-defunct lake. “There was a board listing a contractor and a commissioner’s number, but when I called them about the upkeep of the lake, I didn’t get a favourable response. That was it. I decided I wanted to develop and rejuvenate it,” he says. A man with an agricultural background, he brought 25 workers from Gulbarga. For two months, they worked to restore the lake — deweeding it, desilting it and cleaning it. He roped in his contacts with corporates to sponsor expenses such as the painting of the curbstones (United Way); installation of 21 solar lamps (donated by Simens); farm implements worth Rs 1.5 lakh (General Motors sponsored Rs 1 lakh) while contributing his own money and asking friends to pitch in. He carted 2,500 plants in his car to the lake, employed people to desilt, deweed and rescue a forgotten water body, supervised the construction of a senior citizens area, a children’s park, the walkway, the fence, the 32 granite benches, the gate and much more. Since he is also a fisheries technologist, he submitted a report on the turbidity of the lake (which was unsustainable for a marine ecosystem) to the Department of Fisheries, to stop the fishing that was going on there.
 
 Soon the lake acquired its present character and a Trust was set up and registered. The BBMP decided to incorporate the lake under a citizen-civic authority partnership. Under the conditions of the first MoU signed on April 24, 2013 (a copy of which is with Bangalore Mirror), the BBMP is supposed to provide for ‘round the clock security of the lake and its environs’, ‘ensure that the footpath, structures, idol immersion tank and other civil works are maintained and repaired as necessary’, ‘supply water for the toilets, security cabin and for watering the plants through pipes laid around the lake’ and ‘supply electricity to the security cabin and general lighting’, among others.
 
 In a classic case of dereliction of responsibility, however, the civic body has provided only security – three home guards (as opposed to the sanctioned strength of six in three shifts per day for 24 hours) – which Rai says was after much hand-wringing. Repeated requests, letters and calls for electric supply and cleaning of the idol immersion tank (into which people dump garbage) have not been heeded.
 
 Despite this, the MoU was renewed for a second time, on August 19, 2016 (Bangalore Mirror has a copy). This time, the responsibilities of the BBMP were enumerated as ‘Ensure that no sewage or chemical pollutants enter the lake’, ‘Ensure that the footpath, structures and other civil works are maintained and repaired as necessary’ and ‘Supply electricity free of cost to the toilets, security cabin, general lighting etc’, among others. Needless to say, it has not been done.
 
 Today, after the battery for the solar lamps was stolen, the lamps along the walkway have no lightbulbs in them. The painting of the curbstones and the footpath is undertaken by corporates, as a result of Rai’s goodwill. And so far, 75 per cent of the annual salaries of the staff have been sponsored by TCS, United Way and General Motors each year, the difference being made up by Rai and his friends’ personal contributions. This, in addition to spending on organic manure and neem cakes. And six months after Rs 50 lakh was sanctioned for proposed capital expenditure on a diversion drain, earth filling, desilting, solar pumps, a compound wall and two water tanks, no money or work has seen the light of day.
 
 When contacted, a BBMP Executive Engineer in charge pleaded, on condition of anonymity, that the civic body was overburdened and could not pool its limited resources into one lake. Saying that they were responsible only for “big infrastructural costs”, he passed the buck for the maintenance of the idol immersion tank to the zonal ward office, while stating that any complaints with regard to water and electricity supply would have to be taken to the   and Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited.
 
 It is an attitude Rai is familiar with. Even though he moved out of the area in 2012, he remains attached to the lake’s welfare, spending at least Rs 50,000 every year on its upkeep, and regularly soliciting contributions from friends and corporates. He visits the lake every morning and evening to supervise, and executes all decisions, as the man on speed dial for all things related to Chinnappa­nahalli Lake, whether it is encroachment attempts or maintenance problems. But efforts to co-opt new members into the Trust and ensure regular voluntary contributions and initiative have not borne fruit. 
 The MoU also stipulates that the Trust cannot charge an entry fee into the park, which further reduces avenues for earnings.
 
 Not that his contribution has gone unnoticed. Harinath Yammanuru (78) comes to the lake every day since 2012, and recounts that it was a dilapidated, dirty, garbage-ridden area that has been transformed by Rai’s efforts. He contributes Rs 10,000 “now and then” as a “moral responsibility”.
 
 Ramesh Puttanna (60), who has contributed Rs 20,000 to its upkeep also lauds the transformation – “it was unsafe and frequented by a bad crowd, didn’t have a fence, smelled bad and attracted mosquitoes”, he says. But efforts such as these are few and far between, and now, Rai, who is self-employed, is tired, which has prompted his decision to exit the arrangement. “For four years, I have given this all my attention. It is now time to focus on my second innings at work. I cannot carry on like this any longer,” he says.
 
 Meanwhile, children squeal delightedly inside the children’s park. Joggers run along the lake’s boundary; walkers and other visitors soak in the relief this patch of oasis provides; egrets perch picturesquely in the trees in the island right in the centre. But for how long?
 
