LUCKNOW: Not too long ago,   of Reveri village in Lucknow district was a really worried man. A farmer who barely made Rs 1 lakh annually, he found it tough to run the household and manage the education of his children. But what really gave him sleepless nights was the dream of getting his daughter married—a particularly difficult task in a region where “status” is closely related to matchmaking prospects. 

 Then in 2013, it came to light that the 302 km   announced by the chief minister would pass through the agricultural fields of several  , and Awdhesh would be one of them. In a sudden change of fortune, the farmers got 5-10 times the actual market value of their land, giving way to the   and opening up new nuptial possibilities. 
 
 Awdhesh says, “In a tiny village like Reveri, marrying one’s daughter into a big farmer’s family is a huge honour. The compensation helped me match the status of the groom side and change my daughter’s fortune forever. I gifted my daughter a four-wheeler, which is the most expensive marriage gift in my village till date.” 
 
 The government paid lucrative compensation to farmers ranging from Rs 16-52 lakh per bigha. The growth in their socio-economic conditions, reflected in improved standard of living and pucca houses, also shows in the form of improved match-making prospects for both boys and girls of the villages surrounding the expressway. 
 
 Mohd Anees of Lucknow’s Baratikheda village, who is a dairy owner, says, “We spent our entire life in a kuchcha house. But as soon as we got the compensation, I built a pucca house. Suddenly, there was a deluge of proposals for my son. After years of struggling to find a match, the house finaly got a bahu from an affluent family in Naktaura village last year.”
 
 The money has helped many boys begin independent businesses and reduced dependence on agriculture for livelihood. Tabassum’s parents in Ganj Moradabad village of Unnao district were happy to marry her to Sayyad Adil Fatmi of Nasirapur village after he set up a dhaba with Rs 16 lakh compensation his father got against the land acquired. Tabassum’s family says the dhaba is giving more returns than what agriculture could have ever given. 
 
 Many far-off villages are now a lot more accessible. Vipin Kumar, a flour mill owner in Bangarmau had been looking out for girl who would be compatible with his postgraduate son for the last 3 years. In December last year, while travelling to Kannauj on a business trip, he found a good match in BTC student Neha.
 
