AURANGABAD: The   on Friday suspended district superintendent of land record  , who has been found guilty of issuing wrong orders for a waqf land during her tenure as the CEO of the  . She now faces a departmental probe. 

 Patel was found to have stated in her order that the Nashik-based waqf property attached to Masjid Dudadhari in Kathda alias Kazipura of Nashik district did not belong to the waqf board. 
 
 The woman officer had been given additional charge of the waqf by the then revenue and wakf minister Eknath Khadse. It was dubbed as a political appointment from many in the waqf board.
 
 A waqf member told TOI that the order in the Dudadhari Masjid land scam was drafted by an advocate from Mumbai and Patel signed it.
 
 The said property, about 53 acres of land in Nashik is a registered a waqf property, currently worth Rs 2,000 crore with a development potential of over Rs 5,000 crore. 
 
 After the order was passed by Patel, the property is being developed by a Pune-based builder. As per the waqf records, the said property is notified in the government gazette published on June 30, 1927.
 
 The state minorities department took a serious cognizance of the matter after Central Waqf Council member Mohammed Hamid raised an objection to her move and lodged a written complaint against her on May 27 last year. 
 
 Hamid, in his letter, stated, "The waqf property which is notified in the government gazette published o June 30, 1927 and the inquiry of which is pending before the waqf board in view of the order dated March 2, 2015, of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, has been allegedly transferred by the CEO of waqf board in favour of a private player, land mafia."
 
 Many parties first approached the Waqf Tribunal claiming ownership of the said land. However, the claimants moved the high court challenging the tribunal's decision.
 
 In 2015, the high court disposed of the writ petition and directed the waqf board to conduct an inquiry under section 40 of the Waqf Act, 1995. The claimants then challenged the HC decision in the Supreme Court, which sent a notice to Patel.
 
 Central Wakf Council's assistant law officer, Mohammed Afzal-ul-Haque, in his complaint dated January 25 this year to the state waqf board pointed out that Patel, in her affidavit before the Supreme Court, stated that she could not conduct an inquiry (ordered by the HC) into the ownership of the property under the Waqf Act, as its powers are with the members of the waqf board."
 
 "Contrary to the provisions of the Waqf Act 1995, she allegedly transferred the aforesaid waqf property," he said.
 
 The law officer, in his letter, went on to state that it is requested to kindly take immediate necessary action for filing of affidavit in the Supreme Court to this effect and withdrawal order of the then CEO. He also said that the same is a cognizable offence and non-bailable in nature. 
 
 Taking a serious cognizance of the series of complaints, the minorities welfare department conducted a primary probe against Patel and issued the suspension orders.
 
 The government order, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, "Masjid Dudadhari, Kathda alias Kazipura in Nashik district owns the property in survey number 980 and 981, which is registered as a waqf property. In the preliminary probe carried out by the minorities development department, the then wakf CEO Naseem Bano Patel has been found guilty of irregularities and misconduct by issuing (an) order dated February 4, 2016 declaring the said property to be not a waqf property."
 
 The order further reads, "As the then CEO waqf, who is currently holding charge as district superintendent of land record, Aurangabad, is responsible for it, (a) departmental probe is being ordered against her."
 
 In the order signed by state joint secretary M A Gutte, the woman officer has been suspended until further orders and she has been refrained from leaving Aurangabad district without prior permission.
 
 The woman officer took additional charge of waqf on September 2, 2015 after Syed Aejaz Hussain, a chief judicial magistrate then, refused to continue with the post and requested repatriation back to judiciary.
 
