THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ambitious   hopes to take the state's health sector into new heights. The mission aims at making the hospitals patient-friendly by offering quality treatment but the biggest challenge before them is inadequate staff.

 Unless there are more doctors, paramedical staff and nurses the target of the mission is not going to get accomplished. “The LDF government has ensured creation of more posts in the health sector unlike in other departments. For primary health centres alone 200 new posts of doctors have been created,'' said Dr  , state planning board member and chairman of the committee which is framing the health policy.
 
 The state health sector is following the staff pattern which was implemented in the early 1960s. “This has to be completely revamped. The hospitals need more staff including doctors. I believe in the next budget there will be some concrete decisions to improve the staff strength in the hospitals,“ said Ekbal.
 
 At present 70% of the expenditure in the health sector is divided between human resources, drugs and consumables. But still it is not sufficient. “The aim is to make the hospitals patient-centric,“ said Rajeev Sadanandan, additional chief secretary, health department.
 
 “At present a doctor attends to at least 200 patients between 8 am and 1 pm. But in European countries a doctor attends to only a minimum of 20 patients a day. We should adopt a policy where doctors devote more time for patient care. The Ardram Mission focuses on this,'' said Dr  , state secretary elect of IMA.
 
 Since 1996 there has been a rapid increase in the flow of the patients to the government hospitals after decentralisation was implemented.“This is because we have much stronger primary and secondary health care providers. If 25% of the people were dependent on the government hospitals in late 90s now it has increased to 37%. The government has to ensure quality treatment with more facilities to increase the patient flow,'' said Dr Ekbal.
 
 For this the government needs to increase the professional strength than that of administrative employees. “By bringing down the excess employees in various departments we should increase the professional strength in emergency service sectors like health,“ said Dr Ekbal.
 
 Apart from the existing staff pattern another challenge in accomplishing this mission is  .“There is no doubt we have to increase the budget allocation for the health sector. There has been no increase in the budget allocation for the health sector in recent years,'' said Dr N Sulphi adding that the budget would have more funds for improving the facilities in hospitals.“Since the LDF government is firm on accomplishing the mission the funds will not be a problem,“ said Dr Ekbal.
 
 For Ardram Mission 75% of the funding is by the state government.The remaining will be by   (KIIFB). Apart from this the funds from local bodies will also be utilised for improving the facilities of hospitals. At present district level hospitals, taluk hospitals, community and primary health centres are under the control of the local bodies. Hence the local bodies will have a key role to play in improving the infrastructure facilities.
 
 Ardram Mission has also plans start Cath Labs in all the 21 district hospitals. A proposal in this regard has been submitted before the KIIFB. “The high end machines and setting up of Cath Labs needs heavy investment. Hence the government has decided to source fund from KIIFB,'' said Dr B Ekbal.
 
