MELGHAT(AMRAVATI): Deep inside the mountainous region of  , 49 women of the   have turned into  . Nabbing notorious poachers, facing wild animals and   of aggrieved villagers opposing relocation — these are everyday happenings for the young women brigade.

 There was a time when they didn’t know a world outside their kitchens and backyards. Today, the women jawans of Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) know every nook and corner of one of the most vital tiger habitats of the country.
 
 Based on a camp at Gullarghat, the women make up to more than 50% of the force. “Out of 92 jawans, 49 are women. They were recruited last year from nearby tribal villages after undergoing physical training for six months,” said their Range Forest Officer Kalpana Waghere.
 
 Most of the women jawans are in their 20s. “We come from very poor families. Initially, we applied for the post just as government job gives us some security. But, now, we think of forest as our own,” said 25-year-old forest guard Savita Jamunkar.
 
 Soon after sunrise, their day begins with warm-up exercises. Walking 18 kilometres everyday through difficult mountainous terrains, many-a-times they come face-to-face with wild carnivores.
 
 Forest guard Tara Patankar shared her encounter with sloth bears. “In June last year, three of us were on regular patrol (along with male members). It was raining heavily and we had just started climbing a mountain when we saw two huge black boulders. Going close, we realized that they were sloth bears digging the ground. We had a close shave.”
 
 Some months back, wild boars started disappearing from a village in Dhakna range. Local sources of the forest department tipped-off about the poaching activity and women jawans of the force were sent to investigate. “We learnt that mentally deranged servant of a cattle owner was behind the killing. Late in the night, we received information through wireless that they were cooking a boar,” said Savita Dhikar.
 
 On raiding the house, the women found a huge cauldron set on a stove. “We removed the lid and saw that the tip-off was correct,” said Savita. The accused were arrested and handed over to senior officials.
 
 Illegal extraction of gum from trees is a common practice in the hilly forests of Melghat. A group of women jawans along with a senior official recently caught hold of such intruders. “Five men were on top of trees, extracting the gum. Seeing us, they panicked and took out a knife and axe. Though frightened, we strategically gheraoed them,” said Tara.
 
 At times, these women have to go against their own people too for the sake of duty. Few months back, some woman jawans had a narrow escape during relocation of a village in Sipna division. “The villagers were opposing relocation. A mob got so angry that they surrounded us started pelting stones,” recalled Priya Belsare.
 
 Despite all the risks, the women guards continue to be fearless and dedicated. Leaving their families behind is not easy, specially for the married ones. “We get to go home once in every two months or so. Last week, my husband turned up at the base camp and created a scene. He was upset as I was not giving time to the family,” said one of them.
 
 All that they hope for is service quarters so that they get to stay with their families.
 
