MANALI: Tourists visiting Manali can now enjoy a stay in an igloo. Inspired by the concept of staying in   in  , two local youths have built two igloos at a village near Manali.

 The igloos at Sethan village, near Prini, where former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee has a house, have become a centre of attraction for both tourists and locals. The two snow structures, equipped with bedding, table and lights, were thrown open in January end. 
 
 Tashi and Vikas, the two enterprising youths who are offering the igloo experience, expect the structures to last for one more month, when rising temperature could melt the snow. Tourists coming in for overnight stay are being provided meals, snow dresses and skiing kits. They can also try a hand at building their own igloo at an elevation of about 9,000ft, just below the Hampta pass which opened recently for tourists.
 
 “The concept (of igloo) had come into my mind many years ago but I could not execute my plan. This time, we received good snowfall and temperature is also low, so we decided to give it a try. We have received an extraordinary response,” claimed Tashi. 
 
 Calling it as a completely eco-friendly concept, which has been promoted big abroad, he added, “It does not require timber or any construction material. Everywhere, it is just snow, which will melt away on its own. Persons staying in igloos themselves feel so close to the nature.” 
 
 Already, they’ve had a couple of bookings for stay and the response has been overwhelming, they claimed. More and more people should think about introducing new things to promote tourism, but they should first consider environment, said Tashi. 
 
 “This year, we have introduced two igloos on a trial basis and it has been successful. Lower areas of Manali, including the town, are warmer than Sethan. We plan to to get this concept registered with the tourism department so that they (officials) can also help us promote it, especially in rural areas,” he added.
 
 Both Tashi and Vikas claimed that they feel like having mastered the art of building igloos. They said that they wanted to help other youths to make igloos in their villages and promote winter tourism. 
 
 “When we discussed this concept with our friends, they were so excited that they spent hours with us and even helped us build them. A lot of tourists are enquiring about staying in an igloo. Our only problem is that such structures can be built only in winter months, which is very short,” claimed Tashi.
 
 Igloo stays are generally available in cold areas like Finland, Iceland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden and Canada. 
 
 
