PUNE: The   (PMC), which provides amenities like roads, drainage and lights in public places, will also extend the same to  .

 “People residing in old societies and in core city (goathan) areas are paying tax regularly. But they are not getting facilities due to a number of reasons, including non-registration of their societies by the developers. The work in such societies can be carried out by using the funds allotted to MPs or MLAs after receiving the permission from the district collectorate. Similarly, a process should be started to enable the civic body to disburse funds for carrying out development activities in such premises," stated the proposal. It added that a no-objection certificate can be obtained from the residents.
 
 “A policy has to be put in place as the aim is to help old societies. Steps can be taken so that only genuine citizens benefit. A special budget provision is needed,” said Avinash Bagwe, a corporator, who has given the proposal.
 
 He said that riders can be added so that only old societies, buildings that are 25 or 30 years old and dilapidated, can benefit from the scheme. A search and ground survey report can be made mandatory before extending the benefit to these buildings.
 
 According to civic officials, if the decision in this regard is taken by the civic body it will have number of implications. Problems such as lack of funds for major projects will arise. “Approval for proposal will have long term impact. If a precedent is set for using funds for private work, controlling fund distribution will be a tough task,” an official told TOI.
 
 The Rs 5,600-crore budget for 2017-18 is the highest-ever presented by any Pune municipal commissioner. Last year's budget was for Rs 5,199 crore. Citizens will have to pay higher property tax and water tax if municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar's proposal to hike both taxes are cleared by the standing committee and general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Kumar has proposed a 12% hike in property tax and 15% in water tax in the annual civic budget for 2017-18, which he tabled on Thursday.
 
 “The legal provisions will have to be checked. If the law allows for such spending then it can be done,” said Ulka Kalskar, head of PMC’s accounts department.
 
