Bhopal: A commuter was stabbed to death by pickpockets in a packed low-floor bus in the posh Koh-e-Fiza area on Tuesday morning.

 The public murder will make every commuter shudder because it’s one thing to be pickpocketed but quite another if thieves are willing to stick a knife into you for a few hundred rupees, that too a hundred metres from a police station. What makes the murder even more tragic is that the victim, 25-year-old Kamal Singh, was on his way to the chief minister’s house to seek aid for his ailing baby, and had boarded the wrong bus.
 
 Despite the bus being crowded, police said they haven’t found a single witness willing to give a statement. There are no suspects. And the CCTV camera in the bus is a dud.
 
 Kamal lived with his family in Tanda Berasia locality of Gunga on Bhopal’s outskirts. He and his brother-in-law Himmat Singh came to the city on a bike on Tuesday, and parked it near LMB Hospital to take a bus to the CM’s house. “We saw the SR-5 coming and Kamal wanted to get in. It was too crowded and I suggested we wait for the next one but he was in a hurry. How I wish we hadn’t boarded the bus,” said Himmat.
 
 The bus had rolled barely 100m when Kamal realized someone was pinching his wallet. He turned around and grabbed the man’s wrist. The scuffle lasted a few seconds with Kamal refusing to give up the few hundred rupees. Suddenly, two other gang members stepped up, and surrounded him. The trio stabbed him repeatedly in the thigh and lower waist.
 
 Blood spurted out, probably from a severed artery. Passengers screamed in horror, forcing the driver to halt. Two of the pickpockets quickly jumped off, unchallenged by anyone.
 
 Himmat carried his dying brother-in-law off the bus alone. No one helped him, he says. Passersby in the Royal Market area also stepped back in horror. A couple waiting for their daughter’s schoolbus immediately called police, but they took 20 minutes to arrive though Koh-e-Fiza thana is barely 100m away. A few people helped bandage the wounds to stop the bleeding but by the time Himmat could find an autorickshaw willing to take him to Hamidia Hospital, 300m away, about half an hour had passed. Kamal was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Cops denied they were late, saying they reached as soon as they got information. Police have impounded the bus and handed over Kamal’s body to his family after autopsy. Officials said there are CCTV cameras in the bus, but they are believed to be defunct. There are CCTV cameras at Royal Market square and may have caught the killers escaping on foot. Police are examining the footage to identify them.
 
 Kamal was a farmer and was the sole earner in the family. He leaves behind his mother, wife and a six-month-old daughter. He and Himmat got on the wrong bus because SR-5 goes to Bairagarh not Kamla Park, which is the nearest bus-stop to the CM’s house. They should have got off at Hamidia stop and taken the TR-1 or TR-4.
 
 
