MYSURU: With an intention to build a healthy society, the government has taken up anti-rubella and measles vaccination drive across the country. On completion of day two of the vaccination campaign, more than 1,40,000 children were vaccinated and none of them fell ill or was hospitalized across the district, said Dr B  , district health officer. He also said that the vaccination does not have any side effects.

 Speaking to mediapersons at a district health office here on Wednesday, he said, “There were rumours that some schoolchildren were hospitalized post vaccination. It created panic among the parents, especially those residing in Shanthinagar, Ghosianagar and Kyathmaranahalli areas and in few other villages in the district. The vaccination is a part of the central government’s drive to eliminate measles-rubella by 2020 and it will not harm the health of the children. If children take any injection, there are possibilities that few of them may suffer from light fever. Hence, parents should not fall for rumours and get their wards vaccinated. As per the central government’s decision, the three weeklong immunization drive will cover schools in the first week followed by anganwadis, villages and health centres in the next two weeks.” 
 
 He also alleged that the rumour originated through WhatsApp from a Kolar-based councillor. 
 
 “On the first day of the vaccination drive across the district, among 7,95,788 children, 74,678 of them were vaccinated; 10,044 children between the age group of nine months and five years, 29,913 children between 5 and 10 years and 34,721 children between the age group of 10 and 15 years. On Wednesday, 65,000 children were vaccinated. For every one lakh children in the world, nearly 150 of them suffer from measles every year,” added Dr Basavaraj. 
 
 Privacy should be maintained while giving injection to the students, he said. On Tuesday, at many schools, students were vaccinated in front of other children and because of which, many kids were visibly disturbed. Hence, Dr Basavaraj has given instructions to all the vaccinators not to expose the students while giving injections. 
 
 Disposable syringes must be used for vaccinating children. Dr Basavaraj also mentioned that autodisposable syringes are being used for this purpose. Once it is used, it gets stuck and can’t be used again. 
 
 Dr Krishnamurthy, dean and director of   and RI, Dr Narayanappa, Dr Gopinath, nodel officer of the campaign, Dr  , district family planning officer were also present.
 
 
