Ludhiana: Traffic came to standstill on National Highway 1 for over an hour near Basti Jodhewal Chowk when the local residents of Tibba road and people of the Muslim community staged a protest demanding the arrest of murder accused on Wednesday late night. They staged a protest keeping the body of Mohammad Irshad, a resident of Tibba road, on the highway.

 Protestors blocked traffic for hours and allegedly vandalized one car, one three-wheeler and three motorcycles and also pelted police personnel with stones. Reportedly, five cops suffered injuries. Reportedly, police used mild force to disperse the protestors and restored the traffic.
 
 It is alleged that 40-year-old scrap dealer, Irshad, was kidnapped by a financier, his son, and aides on Wednesday night from outside his house. Reportedly, the deceased had failed to pay the borrowed amount to the financier.
 
 Pawanjit Chaudhary, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP, East), said that police have registered a case of murder against financer Mohan Chand Sharma of Tibba road, his son Inder Sharma and aide Kala Ram. Kala Ram has been arrested. He further added that police have launched a manhunt for the arrest of the rest of the accused.
 
 Tahir, the nephew of the deceased, said his maternal uncle had borrowed Rs 10,000 from financer Mohan Chand Sharma. He claimed that Irshad has returned Rs 6,000 to the accused. However, given their poor financial condition, he was unable to repay the debt. Tahir also informed that the financier used to harass Irshad to pay the remaining money.
 
 “On Wednesday night, the accused turned up and took Irshad in the car and fled. The accused took Irshad to an unidentified place and thrashed him brutally. The accused also poured boiling water on him. After his death, the accused dumped the body near the house,” alleged Tahir. He also added, “Irshad has burn injuries all over his body besides other injury marks.”
 
 One of the accused, who came to dump the body, was nabbed by the kin of the victim. He was handed over to the police after thrashing.
 
 
