NEW DELHI: If you don't have a smart card to travel on Delhi Metro, chances are you'll have to stand in a queue at the station, waiting to buy a token. With 71 of the 154 Metro stations doing away with ticket counters,  's move towards digitisation is proving to be a burden for those without smart cards. 

 A case in point are stations like Preet Vihar, Chandni Chowk or interchange stations like Rajiv Chowk etc, which see long lines for tokens during peak hours. While the Delhi Metro says it has introduced token vending machines at several stations, lines in front of token counters are a common sight during peak hours or some holidays. 
 
 Anuj Dayal,   (DMRC) spokesman said: "At present 502 token vending machines are installed at 154 metro stations of the existing network." The reason is to promote automation and avoid manual interface, he added. "That's why, out of 154 stations, 71 stations are already ticket operating machine free, and adequate TVMs have been installed at these stations for token purchase." 
 
 However, many commuters who are not frequent riders of the Delhi Metro prefer buying tokens, admit officials. It's a fact that Rupashree Gupta, a rider who prefers to buy tokens, corroborates. "I prefer to buy tokens as I don't take the metro every day. For the days I do, I will rather buy a token than hold that money in a smart card," said Gupta. It's a reasoning that many agree with. 
 
 Delhi Metro's attempt to avoid manual interface makes such commuters uncomfortable. For many riders not familiar with digital operations, the ticket vending machine is uncharted territory and intimidating. Thus, lines at counters with manual operators see more riders than TVMs, a fact even officials admit. It is especially apparent during peak hours. The number of ticket counters is decided as per the size, footfall and utility of the station. However, Delhi Metro is planning to make more stations ticket operating machine (TOM) free. For instance, on the Airport Express line, three stations - Shivaji Stadium, Dhaula Kuan and Delhi Aerocity - have been made TOM free. Said Dayal, "For phase III, 500 more TVMs are being installed at all 93 stations." 27 stations of phase III -line 7 and 8 - are being planned as "TOM free", said Dayal. 
 
 
