KOLKATA: Amherst Street,  , Camac Street. Traditionally, these areas are associated with   and   during the rainy season. But there has been a radical change in the monsoon scene this year.   and revamping of pumping stations have worked wonders in these areas. So has been the case for several pockets in Salt Lake and New Town. Otherwise prone to waterlogging, places like Chinar Park crossing, City Centre II and DLF More have remained more or less dry this year. 

 “Regular desilting and a round-the-clock vigil at drainage pumping stations have yielded excellent results. Now we can assure that stormwater will recede quickly even if it rains heavily,” said Tarak Singh, mayor-in-council member overseeing the KMC sewerage and drainage department. 
 
 On Monday, a TOI team found the Chinar Park crossing dry, something the locals only dreamt of till last monsoon. “The place used to be under knee-deep water during the monsoon but this time, there is still no waterlogging,” said Anil Mondal, a rickshaw puller.
 
 At City Centre II and DLF More, rainwater was seen getting flushed out. At Karunamoyee, there was hardly any waterlogging. “The situation is better this time so far,” said Dinesh Raj, a road-side stall owner. 
 
 “The civic authorities are doing a good job but they should remain on their toes till rain stops,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, the secretary of Bidhannagar Welfare Association.
 
 “There has been no waterlogging anywhere in Salt Lake till now. We will be able to prevent any waterlogging for the next 48 hours even if it rains this way,” said Bidhannagar municipal corporation mayor Sabyasachi Dutta.
 
 The civic authorities are operating 16 electric pumps and another 16 to 18 diesel pumps in Rajarhat area to keep waterlogging at bay. “All the drainage pumping stations in Salt Lake are operating in full gear. The old pumps have been replaced with new pumps and the rainwater is being drained out through Kestopur, lower Bagjola and the Eastern Drainage canals,” Dutta said.
 
 In New Town, NKDA along with Hidco and the state PHE department are keeping round-the-clock vigil this monsoon.
 
 
