SURAT: Private airlines carrier Spice Jet has proposed restarting Surat operations, which were suspended after the buffalo-hit incident in November 2014, with two 72-seater Bombardier Q400 aircraft. 

 However, the airlines is studying feasibility of the routes to and from Surat that were proposed by the aviation committee of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) in the meeting held on January 5. SGCCI sources said that SpiceJet’s  , head of sales for Gujarat proposed the 72-seater aircraft in the meeting that was also attended by the office bearers of the Travel Agents Association (TAA).
 
 “Jani asked us to offer the best and most viable routes to and from Surat. Considering the SpiceJet network and limitation of Q400 flying time, viable ticket fares as well as sales for those sectors and routes were finalized,” said Manoj Singapuri, co-chairman of the committee.
 
 SpiceJet is among the first airlines this year to approach the SGCCI to recommence operations and take suggestions for routes. Jani’s visit came a day after the airline’s security team visited the airport on January 4.
 
 The suggested routes include Surat’s connectivity to Udaipur, Jodhpur, Jaipur Goa, Kochi, Pune, Hyderabad, Tirupati, Coimbatore and Mumbai. The minimum fare agreed upon for Mumbai is Rs1,500 and for other destinations Rs3,300. Depending on the sectors, TAA president has assured minimum commitment of 40-60 seats of the 72 available.
 
 The aircraft could be stationed at Surat or Jaipur for furthering connectivity to other cities.
 
 Shilpa Bhatia, senior vice-president, commercial, SpiceJet, said, “We will review the suggested routes and revert with an action plan regarding the same shortly.”
 
 SpiceJet had indicated restarting Surat operations on its Twitter handle earlier this month. Moreover, the infrastructure at the airport too has been upgraded and technical requirements have been met. Even with its limited connectivity, the total passengers travelling from Surat airport in the past nine months has crossed 1,32,000. 
 
 “There was a crisis of confidence regarding Surat airport until now. But we were constantly updating the private airlines about all improvements. SpiceJet needed clarity on certain technical and security requirements at the airport,” said  , chairman, aviation committee, SGCCI.
 
