KOLKATA: The Centre’s circular that all transgenders be allowed to use public toilets according to their sexual identity has divided activists in the city. While some have welcomed the move, a majority of people from the   community thought that a separate, gender neutral, toilet would be better.

 The department of social welfare, which has set up the   Transgender Development Board, the only one of its kind in the country, was already pushing for gender neutral toilets in the state. Members of the board will be meeting again on April 20 to discuss the issue. The board members said they were aware of the Supreme Court’s order that has directed the Centre and the states to make it possible for transgenders to be treated with dignity and equality, and the right to choose a toilet according to their sexual preference was part of that.
 
 “I feel it is a welcome move. But it is quite a bold step to allow them to use a toilet according to their choice of sex rather than their anatomy. It is universal for transgenders to get hounded in public toilets,” said Manabi Bandyopadhyay, the first transgender college principal of the country and the vice-chairperson of the board. She insisted that the Centre and the states should take up a programme now to educate other public toilet users and the workers who man them.
 
 Reseracher on transgender issues Sutanuka   said it is best to create separate third gender toilets alongside the existing ones and equip them with commodes. There could be reserved toilets for transgender men and women, she said. “There is no need for urinals in either. Commodes can serve all needs. The condition of transgenders vis a vis public toilets is pathetic. They are scared of visiting these restrooms because they are harassed and abused. Most don’t drink water the whole day to avoid using the toilets” Bhattacharya said.
 
 Another board member and third gender activist  , too, voted for separate toilets for the peace and safety of all concerned. “I am anatomically a man, but my sexual orientation is that of a woman. Naturally, I cannot mentally get myself to use a men’s restroom. But when I go to a female toilet, my male exterior puts them off. This can be solved only when I go to a reserved toilet for transgenders,”   said.
 
 The toilet that has been built just behind the board mentions that it is a transgender toilet.
 
