BENGALURU: The  's decision to roll out a registry of   has led to demands for the same in Karnataka as well.Recent incidents of alleged   by a city preschool staffer has also resulted in parents petitioning for a similar registry. They are also citing the existence of a similar system in the US.

 But is the registry approach enough to rein in marauding sexual offenders?
 
 The registry can contain only the names and details of those who have been convicted of sexual assault. That the conviction rate in child sexual cases in the state was less than 10% till 2015, and most culprits accused of the depravity are first-time offenders, only point to the larger issues that need to be considered.
 
 Another issue with the implementation of the registry is the availability of informa tion. Policing is a state subject, while the states themselves act in silos. Sharing of information still remains a handicap. Several questions were raised about the inability of   and Karnataka in not finding the infamous ATM attacker from their records, though he was a convicted criminal.
 
 Currently, no state in the country has a registry of sexual offenders. Even if Karnataka creates such a registry , they will have no way of identifying a sexual offender who has moved to the state recently. Migration in search of a job is a phenomenon that cuts across classes and there is no way a sexual offender from a northern state can be tracked in Karnataka by his past, if his home state has no registry.
 
 The central government has, however, proposed a plan to launch a national sex offenders' registry. Although buried in paperwork, the project was resurrected following the arrest of a serial child abuser in New Delhi.
 
 The proposal is to put in public domain photographs, addresses, PAN card details, Aadhaar card number, fingerprints and DNA samples of sexual offenders. Although promising, there is one roadblock for the problem. This project will be implemented using the Crime and   (CCTNS) platform. CCTNS aims to link all state police forces under one network but it is yet to be implemented.
 
