LUCKNOW: The city was agog with hectic activities as the counting got underway and trends started going in favour of the BJP. While Modi fans took to streets, cheering aloud his success march, elders remained glued to TVs, discussing factors which led to the landslide victory of the   after a gap of around 14 years and why Akhilesh could not win despite all the development works he kept counting on.

 Excitement was at its peak as passers-by stopped at Gomtinagar’s 1090 and at GPO crossing to witness and analyse live results on LED screens. Commenting on   blaming EVM tampering for her party’s poor showing at the hustings, Chander Singh, a passerby, said, “When people lose, they start making silly excuses. Had it been so how Congress could have registered victory in Punjab and how even her party could win a few seats in UP? Actually, people were fed up with successive governments in UP for increasing crime rate and corruption. Hence, they have unanimously voted for the BJP.”
 
 While some people criticised Akhilesh for joining hands with the Congress, others termed the SP family feud as a reason for their defeat. Mukesh Verma, a contractor, said, “While Akhilesh was not capable of checking corruption and crime, Mayawati wasted public funds in erecting memorials which are now only adding to city’s temperature. We have voted BJP to power because Modi has a clean image and he speaks about development and promotes idea of ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas.’ Such is the confidence of people in the Modi-led Central government that they do not even mind non-declaration of a CM face for the state.”
 
 Expressing similar views, Atul Kapoor said that whoever would be the CM he or she would always follow Modi’s instructions. This would help UP in registering a tremendous growth rate in no time. “It’s not the CM’s face which matters, but the party’s overall ideology,” said another local Ram Naresh Yadav.
 
 Most of the city’s ‘mithai’ and floral shops were flooded with orders from BJP supporters. Holi stalls, displaying ‘Modi masks’, attracted people and were sold like hot cakes. While BJP office saw people playing Holi with ‘Kesariya’ colour and flowers, other party offices wore a sullen look.
 
 Popular eating joints too saw Modi supporters holding discussions on how the PM succeeded in putting India on world map by receiving praises from heads of various nations. While a daily visitor at the famous ‘Raja thandai’ shop in Chowk, jokingly raised a demand for 12 glasses of ‘thandai’ in ‘Modi’s name’, another fan said, “The PM’s ‘notebandi’ decision was the first step towards checking corruption and he got full success in keeping inflation under check. Besides, surgical strike after the Uri attack showed his decision-making powers. I am confident he would lead UP on the path of development.”
 
 Students and youths were also in an upbeat mood. Youngsters riding motorcycles raising slogans of ‘Modi Modi’ were a common scene on city roads. Office-goers were seen doing threadbare analysis of the poll verdict.
 
 
