PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   has started surveying the scheduled trees along the Pune-Mumbai highway in   Cantonment Board limits to identify trees that need to be cut or relocated for road widening.

 More than a dozen environmental and social organizations in Pimpri Chinchwad staged an agitation near Nigdi along the highway on Wednesday morning to protest against the proposed tree felling. 
 
 They also formed a human chain around a big tamarind tree that will be cut for road widening. Later they submitted a memorandum of demands to the contractor of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).
 
 Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, DD Ruplag-Punde, range forest officer, Bhamburda range, Pune said, “The stretch of highway in DCB limits from Bhakti Shakti chowk in Nigdi to Dehugaon lies in Bhamburda range. A forest guard is conducting spot surveys and will submit a report in four - five days, after which I will do a verification visit.”
 
 She said the stretch from the fork in Dehugaon towards Mumbai lies in the Vadgaon Maval range and officials there will conduct their own survey of trees that need to be felled or transplanted.
 
 Neelam Chavan, forest guard, Bhamburda range, who will survey the trees said the forest department gives permission to cut trees that are in the scheduled trees list like mangoes and tamarind. 
 
 The nearly 7 kilometre stretch of the highway in Dehu Road town from Dehu Road police station to Bhakti Shakti chowk in Nigdi is narrow and has only two lanes due to which there is traffic congestion. 
 
 Local residents and social organizations have been staging agitations over the past two decades to press for the widening of the stretch. As a result, the MSRDC started the highway widening work around a month ago.
 
 An MSRDC official said one contract has been allotted for four-laning of the highway from Y junction to the border of DCB limits with neighbouring   (PCMC) limits at a cost of Rs 39.06 crore. Another contract for construction of railway over bridge and elevated road at a cost of Rs 43.20 crore has also been allotted . 
 
 The elevated road will be built from Babasaheb Ambedkar Cantonment   to the petrol pump on the other side of railway tracks which includes the railway overbridge.
 
 Some environmentalists have suggested exploring the option of creating a median along the stretch to protect the trees. 
 
 Rajeev Nagarkar A Nigdi resident said Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had created a wide median dividing the grade separator and service road on the highway, saving old trees. Such median must be created in this case too.
 
