Crazy   is a   prankster who went too far with his prank videos – kissing unaware women in public places and recording them has gotten him into legal trouble now, with the   going after him now. They finally registered an FIR against him after seeking advice from legal experts on Monday evening.
 
 
 
 The Delhi Police initiated a probe three days back, but they didn’t file an FIR till Monday. Why this delay? A senior official told us, “When we contacted YouTube and   for his information, they told us that they can’t share any data unless an FIR has been registered. Then we asked our legal experts about what should be the section of the FIR, as we didn’t want to go wrong in this case, since we can’t rule out the possibility that he knows the women and had asked them to be part of the videos.”
 
 
 Deepender Pathak, the Delhi Police spokesperson, confirmed that an FIR has been filed. He told us, “We have registered an FIR in the Crazy Sumit case. And now we will access his social media accounts and trace him.” The FIR has been filed under Section 345 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the   and Section 67 of the IT Act (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form).
 
 
 
 The police is also not sure whether the name of the person is Sumit or not. However, the founder of a YouTube channel, who makes prank videos told us, “Sumit Verma is his real name. I met him 10-15 days back and I told him that what he is doing is not good. When he (Sumit) started doing videos, he used to do quality fun videos, but to gather more ‘likes’, he has now brought down the quality. It’s for the first time we have heard that the Delhi Police is probing a case against a prank video. However, if they take action in this case, many people will stop making such videos. A number of people have already restricted the access to their videos in the last few days, fearing action,” he adds, continuing, “In one of the pranks that he plays on his mother, she tells him, ‘Tu galat kaam kar raha hai’. I also told him the same thing, only if he had listened to us.” Sumit has 1,55,000 followers on his YouTube channel. Apart from posting videos of his fans, he has also been uploading apology videos. However, the Delhi Police doesn’t seem to be in the mood for any apology, as an official puts it, “More the posts, easier it will be for us to trace him.” 
 
 
 
 
