KOLKATA: The new tax regime introduced by the   ( ) on April 1 was supposed to end property owners' woes and simplify tax-paying. But going by the initial response, the introduction of the unit-area assessment has been anything but helpful.

 The plight of  , a senior citizen from  , is a classic example of how property owners are finding it difficult to master the new tax system. On Friday , TOI spotted Sen pleading with civic officials in charge of the help desk set up at the KMC headquarters to help citizens calculate the tax amount under the new scheme. She looked perplexed when she was told that she needed to visit the tax department at   to get her queries answered.
 
 “No questions will be entertained here as your property falls beyond our jurisdiction. You have to go to our Gariahat office to get all her queries answered,“ a KMC employee told Sen. All her attempts to get information about some grey areas in the KMC website fell flat. Sen is not alone in her suffering while trying to shift from the rent-based property valuation to   scheme. Subrata Ghosh, another senior citizen, had a similar experience last week. On Thursday , he was turned down by the civic employees twice before being told that he would have to pay 40% additional tax for his two-storied building at Kankurgachhi. When a bewildered Ghosh reminded the KMC employees about the 20% `cap' (under the new scheme, no hike or reduction in property tax should be greater or less than 20%), the men at the help desk asked him to calculate the tax on his own.
 
 Senior civic officials conceded that a section of assessment department officials lacked proper training in UAA rules and regulations. “Unfortunately, a section of employees assigned to look after the help desks do not understand the subject and hence the property tax-payers are seldom getting the assistance,“ a senior official in the KMC assessment department said.
 
 “Lack of training among the KMC employees in the UAA scheme has compounded the problem for the civic guardians,“ the official admitted. According to him, KMC was supposed to hire professionals on contract to interact with property owners.“We are yet to get in touch with the agencies that will bail us out of the crisis,“ a KMC official said.
 
