NEW DELHI: The menace of   returned to haunt the city on Sunday, when a BMW SUV rammed an   from behind near Ber Sarai in south Delhi, killing the cabbie almost on the spot. 

  The SUV was being driven by a 24-year-old food analyst-turned-entrepreneur, who left the car and fled to his home in Panchsheel Enclave. He was later arrested after police tracked the BMW's registration details and reached his house. 
 
  The victim, Nazrul Islam, 37, the sole breadwinner for his family, was on his way towards Vasant Vihar around 11.30pm, when the crash took place. 
 
 The cabbie was at the Aurobindo Marg-Outer Ring Road intersection when the BMW X5 hurtled in from the direction of Panchsheel Park. Eyewitnesses said such was that the impact of the crash that the Wagon R spun on its axis twice before coming to a halt. Islam's head hit the steering wheel and he fell unconscious.
 
 "When people gathered around both vehicles, the BMW driver stepped out of his car and enquired whether the cab driver was okay. He then immediately left the spot," said Mohammad Mukhtar, who owns a shop nearby.
 
 "When we pulled Islam out of the car, he had no visible injuries but was not responding. A passerby even tried applying CPR on him, but he lay still," says Mukhtar.
 
 A passerby took the cabbie to a private hospital in his car. He was declared dead on arrival by the doctors.
 
 It was found that Islam had dropped a passenger at a restaurant near Shahpur Jat and was waiting for another call when the BMW hit it. Locals said cops informed Islam's family in Gurgaon about the tragedy after reaching the hospital. The body was, meanwhile, sent for an autopsy.
 
 Later, locals said another SUV driven by a woman rammed the BMW car that had been left on the road after the accident. Though no one was injured, both cars were damaged in the second crash.
 
 Police said the BMW car, which costs upward of Rs 70 lakh, was registered in Chandigarh in the name of a woman. Investigations revealed that his son, Shoaib Kohli, 24, was driving the car, heading to a friend's house in Vasant Vihar.
 
 Kohli told police that the cab had suddenly slowed down and could not control the BMW, which was at high speed. Kohli said he had tried to enquire about Islam's condition, but the angry crowd started threatening him. He then hailed an autorickshaw and went home fearing he would be thrashed by the crowd.
 
 "We have arrested the driver and registered a case under section 304 A (causing death due to negligence) and 279 IPC (rash and negligent driving) against him," said Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP, south.
 
 On Monday morning, cabbies from app-based taxi services gathered outside the Vasant Vihar police station demanding the arrest of accused driver and compensation for the victim.
 
