Tucked away in the leafy neighbourhood of Malcha Marg, just two kilometres from the Chinese embassy in South Delhi, is Amour Bistro that serves Italian and Mediterranean cuisine. Next to it is Fujiya, a Japanese and Chinese restaurant.
 
  Bistro, flaunting a rustic look, iron chandeliers, distressed wood décor and with Ariana Grande’s Love me harder wafting in the background, may seem the unlikeliest of places to hunt for tandoori chicken. Or, think about Bollywood. But Amit, who insists on being addressed by his first name, wants to talk about Aamir Khan’s latest movie  .
  
  “Aisi dhaakad hai achha gaana hai (Dangal has a nice song),” he says. “Kya aapko pata hai China main kitna business kiya hai Dangal ne (Do you know how much money the movie has made in China)? Over Rs 1,500 crore. Kamaal ki baat hai (It’s amazing).” Amit’s fixation with Bollywood and tandoori chicken is surprising, considering his real name is Li Jian. ‘Amit’ Li Jian is a Chinese expat living in India since 2007. After graduating from Peking University, Amit came to Agra as an exchange student and did a course in Hindi in 2006. He then worked as a public affairs manager in Huawei India for five years, and in 2013 turned entrepreneur when he founded Draphant, a consultancy to facilitate the entry of Chinese companies into India.
  
  
  
  
  An angel investor, Amit also heads the Chamber of Chinese Enterprises in India, as secretary general, since 2013.
  
  
 
  “When the Chinese dragon and Indian elephant come together, you get Draphant,” grins Amit, who has invested over Rs 1 crore as an angel in Indian startups. “Indian startups with Chinese jugaad can do wonders.”
  
  Draphant, claims Amit, has helped attract roughly $137 million in foreign direct investment to India over the last four years.
  
  Overall, investments from China have been increasing across a range of sectors, including mobile and ecommerce, and have gathered steam over the past couple of years.
  
  
  
  
  “In the last two years, the total investment that the Chinese made in India is over $4.2 billion, including investments made by Chinese nationals in Southeast Asia. It’s a staggering number,” he says.
  
  How does this increased enthusiasm to do business juxtapose with the shrill political rhetoric over the last few weeks?
  
  Last week, the Chinese embassy in India issued an advisory to Chinese citizens in India and those planning to travel to India to improve personal safety and avoid unnecessary visits. Amit prefers not to dwell on the nitty-gritty of the standoff, but insists it’s business as usual for Chinese expats. “Let both countries resolve the issue at a political level. Let’s not mix it with business.”
  
  Amit is counting on plain economics to prevail. “$4.2 billion is not a joke.” Do you think, he wonders aloud, once any country has pumped in so much money, it would harm the interests of the host nation? Both the countries, he argues, are ancient civilisations, have witnessed the same pattern of growth, crisscross each other strategically and are two big, growing economies.
  
  Japanese and American experiences don’t suit India. China, he reckons, should be the best partner for India to grow. “India can make cars, but the real technology is chips, and China can help India graduate to that level,” he says, building a case for deeper engagement by both the countries. Chinese companies in India are more givers than takers, and it makes immense sense to focus on business rather than think about distractions, he says.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  Amit is not alone in adopting a laser-focused approach. His compatriots are doing it to perfection. Over 25 kilometres from Malcha Marg is Time Tower in Gurgaon, the headquarters of Alibaba’s mobile business in India that includes UC Web, UC Browser, UC Union and 9 Apps.
  
  On a humid Thursday afternoon, a couple of Chinese expats are out for a cigarette break. Of the over 160 employees that work in the Gurgaon office, a fourth are Chinese. On the first floor sits Constantin WU Haoran, head of marketing and branding, international business, at   Mobile Business Group. For Constantin, who worked in Oppo Electronics for over one-and-a half years in India, nothing matters but business.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  “The India journey so far has been terrific. It has helped me build my career,” says Constantin, who joined Alibaba’s India operations in 2015. “We have a bright future here.”
  
  Constantin lists out the factors that make India attractive to investors: growing population, inclusive culture, aptitude to try different apps and a steadily rising economy.
  
  “Anybody who doesn’t consider India a big market is making a fool of himself,” he says, adding that there are a lot of similarities in the way both India and China have gone about economic development.
  
  Constantin adds that a deeper economic cooperation between the countries might help in fostering more trust. While China is flush with money, India too needs investment as a growing market.
  
  Take, for instance, ecommerce. From just $464.8 million in 2016, Chinese investments in this sector have leapfrogged to $1.9 billion so far in 2017. Top Indian startups, including the likes of Flipkart and  , are flush with Chinese money, and investors from China have been increasing their presence over the last few years. “It’s a win-win if they work together,” says Constantin.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  Meanwhile in Mumbai, Nazia Vasi, CEO of Inchin Closer, is making the most of a boom in India-China trade. Vasi started the language and cultural consultancy in January 2010, when she realised that there were a lot of misconceptions among people from both countries. The aim of Inchin Closer, she points out, is to create a people-to-people platform for Indians and Chinese to communicate and understand each other better.
  
  Having lived in China and studied Mandarin, Vasi has seen her business grow 20% year-on-year, and she recently opened a new centre in Powai, in addition to South Mumbai and Bandra. Over 80 students are enrolled in Mandarin classes taught by three native Chinese. Her students include lawyers, diamond merchants, traders, bankers, entrepreneurs and businessmen.
  
  The demand for learning Mandarin has increased manifold because of rising job opportunities. As Chinese companies grow in India and their Indian counterparts expand their business with China, communicating with each other has become an integral part of working across the border, avers Vasi. Since demand is high and supply is still low, salaries are high for Indians who can be translators and interpreters between Indian languages and Mandarin.
  
  
 
  The anti-China undercurrents, however, are getting stronger. Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convener of RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), has prepared a blueprint to challenge the Chinese financial clout in India.
  
  “Paytm hatao,   apnao (Uninstall Paytm and use BHIM),” he thunders, as he reveals his plans to hit the Chinese companies that have been making inroads into consumer-related industries such as ecommerce, mobile wallets and handsets. BHIM is a UPI-based digital payments application promoted by the Indian government after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation last November.
  
  Even cricket is a target. “We are soon reaching out to BCCI, requesting it to remove Chinese mobile handset companies as its sponsors,” says Mahajan, adding that a door-to door campaign is being rolled out across the country to garner people against Chinese products. BBK Electronics, the holding company of mobile brands Oppo and Vivo, sponsors the Indian cricket team and is the title sponsor of IPL. Paytm, which has Alibaba as its largest shareholder, owns title sponsorship of all cricket tournaments being played in India.
  
  The SJM, says Mahajan, has declared 2017 as “Year of the boycott of Chinese goods and companies”. In the first phase of this year’s campaign, SJM has organised a signature campaign, under which over one crore people have pledged to boycott Chinese goods, claims Mahajan.
  
  “Chinese imports need to be curbed to save the country from a mounting trade deficit with China,” he says, adding that a campaign against Paytm and Flipkart and other ecommerce startups with Chinese funding is on the cards. Paytm declined to comment.
  
  Indian entrepreneurs, for their part, sound a word of caution, and contend that it’s better to hedge one’s bets. “Investment is definitely important, but one should also have measures built for an adverse scenario,” says Jitendra Gupta, a fintech entrepreneur.
  
  Conceding that Chinese investors have become an integral part of the Indian startup ecosystem, and are helping startups leverage with experience from China, Gupta maintains that funding is also creating competition, which Indian counterparts may not be ready to face. China, he adds, didn’t allow many American and Japanese companies into its market and created an environment to block players such as Facebook and Google.
  
  “That gave a chance for home-grown companies to survive and grow over the long term,” he says. However, the Indian market is fairly open. Back in Gurgaon, Amit still bats for a deeper India-China engagement.
  
  China, he avers, is transferring manufacturing technology to India, the Chinese expats here are honest and pay taxes and don’t create any trouble for local citizens and always stay under the radar. “We don’t like publicity, positive or negative,” he says, which might explain why all Chinese handset players in India as well as Chinese moneyfunded startups declined to comment for this feature. Married to Zhao Fei Yun in July last year, Amit had an Indian wedding last December.
  
  “Panditji kept saying svaha for so long,” he laughs. “I want India and China to come closer and stay together,” he says. Svaha to that? 
