LUCKNOW: Gorakhpur’s dream of an   inched closer to reality on Thursday with the   entering into a formal memorandum of understanding (MoU). 

 Close to the hearts of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and   Aditya Nath Yogi, the project is to be readied by 2020 at an estimated cost of Rs 1,749 crore.
 
 Of this, Rs 1,101 crore would be taken care of by the Union government. The state’s component includes the cost of land which is estimated to be Rs 738.6 crore. Expenditure on construction of four-lane approach road, water supply and establishment of an independent power feeder will also be borne by UP government. 
 
 Officials in the state medical education department headed by additional chief secretary Anita Bhatnagar Jain represented Team Yogi and joint secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, Sunil Sharma signed on behalf of Pradhan Mantri Swastha Suraksha Yojana under which new   have been set up in the country. 
 
 Jain said AIIMS will come up in Mahadev Jharkhandi village of  . An area of 42.326 hectares has been identified. “The land will be provided to the Union government on a lease of 90 years. The institution will be constructed, maintained and managed as per AIIMS Act,” she said.
 
 The project entails construction of a hospital building of 750 beds, academic block, attendant accommodation, auditorium, guest house, accommodation for 172 faculty members and hostels for 360 undergraduate, 599 post graduate and 432 nursing students. In terms of services, AIIMS Gorakhpur will begin with surgical, medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology but will eventually add 29 other departments. It will also have a trauma centre.
 
 “The out-patient department will be readied by March 2019 while patient care will take a few more months. Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation has been engaged for moderating initial work related to the institution,” she said.
 
 Expressing happiness over the MoU, chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath said that the move will accelerate establishment of AIIMS in Gorakhpur.
 
 “BRD Medical College is the only medical institute in eastern UP which caters to an immense patient load. The burden translates into shortage of beds and hands which compels people to go to Lucknow or Delhi. An AIIMS in Gorakhpur will cater to a large population in eastern UP districts,” he said.
 
 
