BENGALURU: Switching career paths after years of learning and training isn't easy. But alumniof B-schools across the globe have hailed their business programmes for opening doors to new and unexpected career opportunities.

 A study conducted by the   (GMAC) earlier this month reveals that   or non-MBA graduates cited three broad reasons for choosing a business masters' degree - to advance their current status in the career to a higher level, to start their own business enterprises or to switch their career paths. Choosing an industry after the degree, on the other hand, could be attributed to more opportunities within the chosen industry.
 
 Parthasarathy S, an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB), from the 1992-94 post graduate programme, vouched for the findings, citing his experience. After working in Vizag Steel Plant for three years, he joined the MBA programme at IIMB. "I had job security, a reasonable quality of life and few reasons to explore opportunities outside of my comfort zone," he said.
 
 "After a brief two-year stint in ITC Classic Finance in their merchant banking function, I became an entrepreneur and continued exploring, ideating and executing ideas for over two decades. The MBA helped me look at the bigger picture and move away from the confines of narrow definitions of abilities and contexts. It allowed me develop integrated perspectives of a business," he added.
 
 The study, which sought responses from 14,651   of over 1,100 graduate B-schools from over 300 universities in 46 countries, found that more than half (52%) of the respondents were employed in a career they did not have or think of before entering the graduate programme. While job satisfaction was a key determinant, 88% of the respondents said they were satisfied with their new career paths.
 
 Venturing into different career paths after a graduate business degree has tangible perks too, the study found. High employment rate, salary growth, advancement in career and acquiring new skills and experiences are just a few to name. While 91% of the respondents said the choice was personally rewarding, 75% reported that it was financially rewarding.
 
 "I chose the company more than the industry. The company had a high quality leadership development programme in my discipline, the work culture fit me and there were opportunities for international assignment," a respondent, who graduated from a full-time MBA programme in 2015, said.
 
 The survey also focused on the different career paths chosen by most graduates. 
 
 A majority of the alumni filled positions in finance and accounting (24%), marketing and sales (21%) and general management (15%). While MBA graduates were more likely to join work in marketing and sales, operations and logistics and general management functions, non-MBA alumni tended to choose finance and accounting and human resources fields.
 
 Two in five alumni (39%) now work in an industry they had never considered before starting business school, the survey found. However, some respondents stated that they would have never pursued a degree in business had they known it would be of less use to them.
 
 "I went in with a general notion of 'well it can't hurt to have one', which is still true, but for the cost, I don't think it was the best financial decision to make," a part-time MBA alumnus said.
 
 Sapna Agarwal, another alumnus of IIMB (PGP 1991-1993), said, "My MBA education prepared me to experiment with and adapt to diverse job roles. Before IIMB, I worked as a systems analyst. Post IIMB, I worked at various sales and marketing roles in the technology sector and handled a wide range of products and market segments. After 17 years and four organizations, including Intel and IBM, I moved into something entirely different in the education space. The MBA from IIMB equipped me with a much wider comprehension enabling me to switch sectors and functions with relative ease."
 
 However, the ones who did take away a lot from their degrees said the employment after graduation was personally rewarding (93%), professionally rewarding (91%) and financially rewarding (76%).
 
 "Year after year our research has shown that a graduate management education offers significant personal, professional and financial rewards. We're now seeing strong evidence of how valuable the degree is with regard to changing careers," said Sangeet Chowfla, president and CEO of GMAC.
 
 "Given the current pace of change in the economy and the workplace, candidates can be confident in the knowledge that a graduate management education can prepare them with the skills and flexibility they need to be in a better position to pivot and adapt their careers when opportunities present themselves and industries are disrupted," Chowfla added.
 
 
 
 
 The study also reported that over 1,500 alumni respondents are entrepreneurs, most of who have businesses in consulting and products and services industries. Interestingly, no matter how big or small their ventures may be on scale, these businesses tend to employ less than 25 employees. A majority of the respondents (82%), said their ventures are run by less than 25 employees.
 
 While 42% of the respondents said they were very satisfied with their entrepreneurial ventures, 4% were unsatisfied. "I pursued a graduate management education programme to run a better business in my medical practice and be able to collaborate better with biomedical corporations and startups to be the link between the medical and industry sides," a 2011 graduate of a full-time MBA said.
 
