CHENNAI: When the Pandava brothers of the Mahabharata are given ‘Kandava Prastham’ -- a wilderness -- as their share of the kingdom, they set out to burn down the forest to build a city. In a recent production, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award winning   director   goes a step beyond the mythological tale by recasting the narrative into a statement on deforestation and displacement.

 The play, being performed in  , is Prasanna’s 24th directorial venture. In her earlier productions, she had no central text. Her style of direction is to bring in various narrative strands together, using the help of varied elements like painting, music and choreography.
 
 But in this production, Prasanna works around the play   by the master of modern Tamil theatre,  , and weaves in her interpretation of it which, she says, is a major departure in her career.
 
 “I don’t believe in a built-in text,” says Prasanna. “I bring in a lot of resonances to the narrative.” In the play, she uses drawings by M Natesh, Carnatic and folk music, curtains, cutouts and choreographed sequences to develop the narrative. But the major directorial additions are the interlacing sequences where she gives her reading of the central text.
 
 The play begins with the actors introducing themselves as construction workers from various parts of the country. They wander in search of a job, when they hear the call for building a city for the Pandavas. They then move on to play characters from the Mahabharata, placing mythology in a contemporary context. The epic that speaks through Muthuswamy’s text and Prasanna’s reading of it offers two views of the narrative at once.
 
 The twin themes of deforestation and displacement run throughout the play. Reading the plight of displaced construction workers into the tale of the Pandavas and Krishna destroying a forest and building a city is not far-fetched, but is something that stares at us, adds Prasanna.
 
 Kandava Vanam will be performed every evening from March 26 till April 2, at Koothu-P-Pattarai in Virugambakkam.
 
