NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi   said “greed” propels mushrooming of   in the capital, residents of   are preparing to appeal against the verdict.

 “This court would like to emphasise the distinction between an unauthorised colony and jhuggi jhopri cluster. While jhuggi jhopris are born out of need and necessity for housing, unauthorised colonies are a result of greed with an intent to secure unmerited benefits,” Justice Manmohan observed, while dismissing the plea of Utsav Vihar residents on Tuesday.
 
 The residents had approached court against DDA’s plan to construct a road, arguing instead that the colony should be regularised. But HC dismissed their argument, stressing that legalising such colonies has emboldened purchasers of acquired land and encroachers apart from leading to manifold problems.
 
 Both DDA and Delhi government presented a united stand in HC that the colony can’t be regularised and backed plans to construct a road in the area. The government, through its counsel Siddharth Dutta also informed the court that it has already rejected the colony’s plea seeking regularisation in 2014.
 
 HC pointed out that even for civic agencies, unauthorised colonies become a challenge to provide adequate sewage, drainage and roads after an unplanned colony has been constructed and occupied, as construction would have been carried out in a “haphazard manner without adhering to any scientific norms”.
 
 Advocate A K Dey, who represented the RWA in court, told TOI they intend to appeal against the judgment. “We are fully covered by the new Land Acquisition Act of 2013 and will appeal before a division bench. The Act makes it clear in case compensation for acquired land was not paid by government or its agencies then the acquisition strands lapsed,” Dey maintained. 
 
 The single judge had dismissed this argument, saying members of the RWA can move individual petitions in the high court for relief under the Land Acquisition Act of 2013. HC order is likely to impact other colonies seeking regularisation such as Sainik Farms.
 
 
