Mumbai: In its efforts to have better control over its listed arms,   — the holding company of the   — spent a little over Rs 3,200 crore (about $500 million) on Tuesday to increase its stakes in  ,   and  . The stake purchases were though a series of block deals on the BSE, official data showed.

 According to disclosures on the BSE, Tata Sons spent Rs 1,634 crore to buy an additional 1.34% stake in Tata Motors, taking its total holding in the auto major to 32.4% now. The shares were bought through the open market route with multiple parties selling to Tata Sons. On Monday evening, the company had mandated   to spend about Rs 2,000 crore to buy additional stake in Tata Motors. The stake buy by Tata Motors’ main promoter led to a sharp spike in the price of the stock, which closed 4.6% higher at Rs 424 on the BSE.
 
 Through another block deal, Tata Sons spent Rs 673 crore to purchase an additional 4.1% stake in Tata Chemicals. The stake was bought from group company Tata Global.. After the purchase, Tata Sons now holds 23.4% in Tata Chem. The salt manufacturer’s stock got a boost from the news of the acquisition and it closed 2.2% higher at Rs 657.
 
 Tata Sons also spent Rs 922 crore in another block deal to buy 6.84% stake in Tata Global. This was bought from Tata Chem, taking Tata Sons’ total holding to 30.3%. The Tata Global stock, too, jumped after the deal was executed, closing 1.2% higher at Rs 216. Interestingly, Tata Sons’ 6.84% stake purchase in Tata Global from Tata Chem would have triggered an open offer in normal circumstances (it exceeds the 5% limit under creeping acquisition). But since it bought the shares from a group company, it was exempted from making an offer to public shareholders.
 
 Sebi rules state that if both the buyer and seller entities are related to the promoter, then the buyer is exempted from making an open offer, provided both the parties have been holding the target company’s shares for three years, have made proper disclosures and that the acquisition price is not more than 25% of the target company’s 60-day average trading price.
 
 The stake purchases by Tata Sons disentangle cross-holdings in Tata Global and Tata Chem, with control directly moving with Tata Sons, which is the ultimate holding company. Tata Sons had once said that it would like to hold 50% in operating companies.
 
 For Tata Global and Tata Chemicals, the sale of each other’s shares frees the companies from dead stocks on their books and gives them the required cash for business expansion or debt reduction.
 
 
