NEW DELHI: A late surge in   is expected to bring rain over the next few days to several states in central and north India that are facing the threat of  , and may 
  .

 The met office said Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Haryana —states that have moderate to high rain deficits — along with Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra are likely to get rain this week under the influence of a low pressure system currently over Chhattisgarh.
 
 “The system will move west-northwest bringing showers over MP, UP and parts of Vidarbha before interacting with a western disturbance that will cause rain in more areas of north India, including Haryana, Delhi and Uttarakhand from Friday,” said M Mohapatra, head of services,  .
 
 Mohapatra said another low-pressure system forming in the Bay of Bengal is expected to bring more rain into central India after the current system dissipates in the next four days. 
 
 Already, rainfall brought on by the low-pressure in the past three-four days has reduced the countrywide monsoon deficit from 6.2% to 5.3%. This may reduce further and even touch normal levels, depending on the strength of the two systems. For the monsoon season (June to September), the normal rainfall range is 96%-104% of the long period average (LPA). At 94.7% of LPA, monsoon is currently in the below-normal range.
 
 Met officials expect rain activity in the coming days to make some dent in the large deficits in UP, MP and, to a lesser extent, Haryana. These are states facing a threat of drought in many districts. The rain shortfall in UP so far is the highest in the country, 34% below normal, with west UP at 39% less than normal. Haryana has a 30% shortfall and MP 23%.
 
 Monsoon in August and September has fallen far short of expectations. Rain deficit in the two months put together is over 13%, which is the main reason for large deficiencies opening up in parts of central and northwest India. 
 
 However, this period has also brought good rain to other regions facing large shortfall, such as south India and the northeast.
 
 “Kerala and south interior Karnataka are two subdivisions which had deficient rainfall till a few days ago but have now come into the green (normal range). The current rain spells are expected to reduce the deficit in some other states with big shortfalls,” Mohapatra said.
 
 This activity has also further delayed the process of monsoon’s withdrawal from the country. “Conditions for the withdrawal may start becoming favourable from next week and monsoon’s retreat from west Rajasthan is likely to begin only by the month-end,” Mohapatra said.
 
 The normal date for monsoon’s withdrawal to begin is September 1. The rain system retreats from the country in stages. It is usually out of northwest India by October 1 and from central India by October 15.
 
