BHOPAL: The three suspects in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blasts refused legal aid when they were produced before district court by Madhya Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad (ATS), on Wednesday. 

 Mohammed Danish, 27, son of   resident of Kanpur, Syed Mir Hussain, 19, son of Syed Ahsan Hassan, Kannauj and Mohmmed Atif Muzaffar, 22, son of Muzaffar Haq Nadvi, resident of Kanpur were produced before the court of additional district and session’s judge, Gireesh Dixit.
 
  requested the court to send the accused to police remand till March 23, 2017, which was accepted by the court.
 
 Court in its order while sending the accused to police custody till March 23, 2017 said, “It is evident by going through the case diary that the accused have been arrested by MP ATS on March 8, 2017. Seeing the seriousness of the crime and for recovering the materials used in the crime the accused are being sent to custody of ATS Indore till 4 pm of March 23, 2017.”
 
 Court also instructed that medical tests of the accused should be conducted before and after the custody and also instructed the police to inform the kin of accused about their arrests. 
 
 Case number 47/17 was registered by GRP police after the incident, later the case was transferred to ATS. An FIR with case number 4/17 has been registered at STF police station Bhopal after the arrests of the accused by MP STF. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh ATS, in its remand application informed court that the accused have been connected with the terror outfit ISIS and were connected with the outfit via social media applications Twitter and Telegram. 
 
 The ATS also claimed in the application that they have admitted of killing more people and also admitted that they were involved in the   train blast. 
 
 The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Explosives Act and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. 
 
 Accused were arrested by police from a bus near Pipariya in Madhya Pradesh's Hoshangabad district on March 7.
 
 The accused were then produced before the court. 
 
 On March 7, an IED blast took place in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train near Jabdi railway station in Shajapur district, injuring at least 10 people. 
 
