KOLKATA: The city woke up to a smoggy New Year's Day on Sunday, and not much of a chill. But the weatherman says there's some chance of rain in the next few days, which would drag the temperature down, and also bring down the pollution count by a few notches.

 A cyclonic circulation developing over the Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh and Jharkhand region may bring rain to the city. Weathermen are keeping a close watch over this developing system.
 
 “We expect a cyclonic circulation to form over that region by Monday or Tuesday ,“ said G K Das, director (weather), Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. “In that case, there is a chance of rain in some parts of Bengal, especially the western districts. Kolkata too may get some rain,“ he added.
 
 The first day of the new year saw the mercury rise four degrees above the normal mark.The minimum temperature on Monday was 16.6°C. The rise in temperature over the past few days has been attributed to moisture-laden easterly winds, instead of dry westerly winds.This wind, with its high moisture content, is headed towards the eastern region via the city , pushing up the mercury .
 
 “Once the cyclonic circulation triggers rain, it will drag the mercury down. Even if it does not rain in parts of Bengal, rain in the eastern region will have an impact on the city. So, we are expecting a drop in temperature from January 4 onwards,“ Das added.
 
 The city's ambient air quality continued to be alarming on New Year day , with the finest respirable particulate matter (PM2.5) at 335gm3. “The haze that covers almost the entire city throughout the day is due to suspended particulate matter,“ said environment activist Su dipto Bhattacharya.
 
 For the last few days, Kolkata's ambient air has been worse than Delhi's. “We have moved a petition in the national green tribunal on the city's worsening ambient air quality . The state environment department should put remedial steps in place to counter the pollution,“ said environment crusader Subhas Dutta.
 
 “The particulate matter is so fine that it can can travel straight to the lungs to choke it,“ said Dr Debasish Basu, a preventive healthcare expert.He advised people against taking morning walks, saying evening walks would be more prudent for some time.
 
