KOLKATA: On a day   took   in confidence to thrash out Teesta water sharing problems,   leaders in Bengal went the whole hog against the   government to reassure its ranks that there is no let up to the political offensive.

 Coming down on the law and order situation in Bengal, BJP national secretary in charge of Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya, also identified certain areas of concern where the Centre may intervene if it wants. “Bengal tops the list when it comes to criminalisation of politics. Police here act under the instructions of the ruling party. This apart, there are some grave issues such as infiltration and pumping of fake currency in India. The Centre may intervene if it wants,” he said.
 
 The hint was construed as a veiled threat to the state government under provisions of Article 356 1(a) of the Constitution that allows the President to assume all or any of the functions of the state government. Trinamool secretary general   reacted sharply. “Those who are carrying arms in the open now want to teach the Mamata government a lesson. Let them try that route. They will meet with a rebuff from people,” Chatterjee said.
 
 As part of preparations for the BJP rally in Kolkata on April 12, state BJP president  , now accused in the Arms Act, led a motorbike rally from Khardah. When police stopped the bikers on BT Road, Ghosh and his men took a detour via Titagarh and Barrackpore and emerged on BT Road near Chiria More.
 
 Vijayvargiya didn’t justify Ghosh’s carrying a sword during the Ram Navami celebrations. Instead, he wanted the Trinamool government to take steps during the Muharram processions too. “We have nothing against the government if it takes a neutral stand. If the government debars BJP from taking traditional arms, it has to do it on the occasion of Muharram. We have photographs that some Trinamool leaders had joined us with arms. What action has the government taken against them?” the BJP national secretary said. However, the Hindu rallyists and the saffron bike brigade didn’t carry any arms during the showdown from Golpark to Kalighat temple on Saturday.
 
