MADURAI:   Dhanush appeared before the   bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday, as directed by the court in connection with a couple’s claim that he was their son. When the actor appeared before the court, Justice G Chockalingam directed government doctors and the registrar of the high court bench to verify his identification marks. 

 Accordingly, verification was done in the registrar's chamber, and the case was adjourned to March 2 for final hearing.
 
 Dhanush filed a petition in the high court seeking to quash the proceedings initiated by the judicial magistrate court in Melur based on a case filed by R Kathiresan (65) of Madurai and his wife Meenakshi (53). The   sought maintenance from the actor claiming that the he was their son.
 
 The actor stated that he was not their son and also that somebody was behind them to extract money from him. 
 
 The couple claimed that their son had a mole on the collar and a scar on the forearm. The actor clarified that he had no such identification marks.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The couple’s side said that the actor’s denial of the identification marks could not be believed. The actor had submitted a birth certificate, according to which he was born on July 28, 1983. The couple side claimed that the birth certificate was not genuine because his name was not mentioned in the certificate. 
 
 On June 21, 1993, the birth certificate was issued. It means the certificate was issued ten years after the birth of Dhanush.
 
 If the certificate were genuine, the actor should be studying in Class 5 at that time. The couple’s side asked how a birth certificate, issued after ten years of his birth, could be issued without mentioning the name of the child.
 
 Besides, it was mentioned that the name of the father in the birth certificate is Krishnamoorthy. The records showed that Krishnamoorthy changed his name as Kasturi Raja on February 18, 2015. However, it was clear that the Tamil movie Thulluvadho Ilamai, released in May 2002, was directed by Kasthuri Raja, the couple’s side said.
  
 The actor said his birth name R K Venkatesh Raja was changed to Dhanush K Raja in 2003. But, the typed set of papers filed before the court said that his name was mentioned as Dhanush in in 2002, the couple’s side said.
 
 
