It’s been 28 years since Mollywood’s nithyaharitha nayakan (evergreen hero)   walked away from the stage of life after close to four 
glorious decades in the limelight.
 
 Mollywood’s first superstar and a world record holder, who was born of April 7, 1927 as Abdul Khader, has given Malayalam cinema too many reasons to hold his memories dear. On the occasion of his 90th birthday, Kochi Times walks down memory lane with his peers and co-stars, reminiscing the trailblazer and one of the founding pillars of Malayalam cinema.
 
 
 
 Handsome, suave and charming — Prem Nazir made running around trees more romantic than any hero in Mollywood. He probably has played the romantic hero for most number of films, running into hundreds, in world cinema. And yesteryear diva   would know it best, having starred in a record 107 films with the superstar as his heroine.
 
 The duo has worked in movies such as Thumbolarcha, Kallichellamma, Kannappanunni and Kadathanattu Maakam. Sheela says, “For the world he was this romantic hero, but I never saw an ounce of it in his conduct. He used to come to the set, did his share of romantic scenes with dedication, but once outside the frame he was just a regular guy.”
 
 Actress  , who has acted with him in numerous films including Chirikudukka, Inale Innu and College Girl, recalls, “Since the age of 12 I had acted with him and never did I feel any starry airs about Prem Nazir, despite being the much-loved romantic hero. Only when I attended an event for College Girl, when I was 20, did I see the adulation for real and understood that he is the Amitabh Bachchan of Malayalam cinema!”
 
 She also recalls an instance, “My sister-in-law, who studied in St Teresa’s, once told me how girls went crazy when he visited their campus, soon after the release of his first film Marumakal. Screaming ‘Balettaa…’ the girls apparently rushed towards him as he reached the campus,” says Vidhubala.
 
 
 
 Having made his debut in 1952 with Marumakal, Prem Nazir enjoyed a lengthy stint as an actor with 38 years in the film industry. It’s no wonder that Nazir became Malayalam cinema’s first superstar.
 
 Acting legend Madhu, who worked with Nazir in movies such as Padayottam, Kuttikuppayam and Sindhu, says, “I entered films 12 years after he had started acting. There’s no doubt that he’s the first superstar of Malayalam cinema. Even when the industry was weak and in its nascent stage, he acted without taking any remuneration and gave his money to make films. He’s one of the few people who actually helped sustain this industry.”
 
 Scriptwriter John Paul, whose film Vida Parayum Munpe that earned Nazir his only Kerala State Award(Special Jury mention), says that Nazir knew very well his responsibility as an actor in building up the film industry and sometimes had to keep his ambitions at bay for a bigger cause.
 
 “Even when he was stereotyped as the romantic hero at the peak of his career, he never tried to swim against the tide. If he had tried, it would have affected the industry. Malayalam cinema was banking on him. He knew very well that the industry’s equilibrium depended on him and he took up the responsibility as well,” says John.
 
 
 
 With a filmography of over 700 films, that include 55 Tamil movies, versatility should have been the key. However, Prem Nazir was stereotyped as the romantic hero for most part of his career— apart from some films like Iruttinte Atmaavu and Kuttikuppayam.
 The actor though had ensured that once in a while he played varied roles. Sheela says, “Despite being a romantic hero, he was not image conscious. He had also acted as my son, father, son-in-law and in a variety of other roles in our movies together.”
 
 The film that truly paved the way for the transition from a romantic hero to a character actor in the 80s was Mohan’s Vida Parayum Munpe. In fact, his role wasn’t even as the protagonist in the film as that was played by Nedumudi Venu.
 
 John says, “If Nazir considered himself to be a superstar, he would have insisted that he be given Venu’s character. Instead he said, ‘This is going to be a different film, I love it and let me be part of it.’ He was also ready for any preparations that director Mohan had asked of him.”
 The movie earned him a special jury mention at the Kerala State Awards in 1981. “His aura as a youthful hero was fading and this movie allowed a smooth transition to character roles. The movie also had an impact on his casting in the later years — with him doing more father, uncle and elder brother roles,” says John.
 
 
 
 What probably set Nazir apart from a lot of stars was that he never considered himself a ‘superstar’ and would go any distance when it came to doing his job. John Paul recounts how Nazir once convinced MT Vasudevan Nair to cast him in 1967 for P Bhaskaran’s Iruttinte Atmaavu when the scribe was against it.
 
 “MT wanted someone like Nellikode Bhaskaran to do it. But Nazir desperately wanted to be part of the film,” says John. “So one day he walked up to MT and told him, ‘I heard you don’t think I can play the role. I am willing to do anything.’ After the film, MT was convinced. For the shot of the man’s leg that was chained, everyone said they could use a body double but Nazir insisted that he do it and he was bleeding by the end of the film. Nazir had that dedication for his work right from the beginning of his career.”
 
 Cinematographer Ramachandra Babu, who had worked with the actor in seven films including Padayottam, recounts how Nazir would never complain.
 For Randu Lokam in 1977, Babu says, the team shot a song sequence in Vattakayal, Alappuzha, that had Nazir on a coracle and Jayabharathi and her friends on a bigger boat. The crew with the camera and generator was on a third boat.
 
 “We went round the lake for about four hours. Nazir sir couldn’t sit in the coracle because there wasn’t space for that. There was no one to hold an umbrella for him or do his make-up. He couldn’t even hear the song because of the sound from the boats. He would just start acting when we played the track,” he says. “Anyone else would have at least once asked to come back ashore for rest and refreshments. But he stayed on till we finished filming the song.”
 
 
 
 Despite drawing flak for overusing his signature style in majority of his films, John says Nazir’s biggest asset was that ‘he never brought theatre to cinema’. “He had acted in a lot of Shakespearean plays before coming to films but he tuned his acting style to what is required for cinema,” he says.
 Director TK Rajeevkumar, who had spent two days with the actor when he had come to watch the shooting of My Dear Kuttichaathan, says Nazir had a clear assessment what he could do and not.
 
 “When people used to cast him for a role, he would ask them, ‘Am I that good an actor? Aren’t there better choices?’” says Rajeev. “When opportunities come, people ignore their weakness and stardom clouds their judgment. But Nazir sir knew his limitations. He was never insecure of failing because he had confidence in his strengths and full faith in his directors,” he explains.
 
 
 
 Nazir’s co-stars unanimously agree that the actor never had any starry airs about him. Sheela narrates an incident that shows how the actor never considered himself privileged.
 
 The actress says, “Those were the times when you would spend your breaks sitting on benches or tree shades with your colleagues. Once I came across a comfy chair on the set. I found out where it was sold and bought one each for me and him. I also got our names stitched on two different towels, which could be hung from the chairs, and gave him.”
 
 However, Nazir was reluctant to use the chair. “He told me ‘Ayyo koche! Bringing our own chair? How can I use it when others don’t have it? It’s not fair,’ and kept it away in his car’s boot at least for a month. Even when he had to use it once on the set, he was so shy! Such a simpleton, he was,” she recounts.
 
 Vidhubala too says he was never the one to make a fuss on the sets. “I have never seen him even getting angry with anyone. Once when a shoot got so delayed that the light wasn’t set right even by 1 AM, he just walked up to the director and said, ‘I guess it’s better we start off tomorrow then, I’m leaving,’ and he quietly left.”
 
 
 
 
 Nazir’s co-stars span generations. However, they all maintain that he was a breeze to work with – even at a time when he was shuttling between three film sets a day during the 60s and 70s.
 
 Madhu says, “He was quiet at home with any role given at any time of the day. He was versatile and hardworking. Working with him was always fun like playing a game.”
 
 Vidhubala, who had acted with him as a daughter and then as a heroine, recalls how he was always accommodating of his co-stars. “We used to be neighbours in Chennai. When there were films for which we shoot together, he would tell the production guys, ‘You don’t have to spend too much money for separate cars. I will pick up Vidhu.’ Air conditioned cars weren’t common then, but I used to go to set in Nazir sir’s air-conditioned Benz.”
 
 Sheela says that his biggest attribute despite being such a big star was that he wanted to be around his co-stars. “On the set, he would spend time with the rest of the actors. He won’t talk much, but will be intently listening to others and laughing his heart out,” she says.
 Even during the latter portions of his career, Nazir exuded a ‘special warmth’ when he was on the sets, says Balachandra Menon, who had acted and directed the superstar in Karyam Nisaaram and Prashnam Gurutharam.
 
 Menon says, “He handles every problem with a smile on his face. He was open to any amount of corrections by the director. He never lost his patience and would always strive to improve.”
 
 
 
 Surviving in the film industry required a particular amount of tact and Nazir had oodles of it, says his colleagues. Scriptwriter John Paul tells us an instance on the sets of Vida Parayum Munpe where the superstar made Bharath Gopy, his close friend within a span of a few minutes.
 
 John says that Gopy was reluctant to be part of the film because Nazir was acting in it. “He was oversensitive and he told us, ‘If Nazir showed any airs of being a superstar, I will storm off this project.’ We were also circumspect about what would happen. The two first met while Gopy was doing his make-up. Nazir walked up to him and said, ‘Gopy… I met your uncle’s wife’s brother’s uncle a few days ago at the airport.’ Gopy had only half the knowledge of the relationship mentioned and here Nazir, who was also from Gopy’s hometown Chirayinkeezhu, was explaining the entire family tree – who is married to whom and what they were doing. That was the ice breaker. That evening, Nedumudi Venu, Mohan, director Bharathan and I had a small get-together and we asked Gopy to join us. He said, ‘No. Nazir invited me for dinner.’ So, that’s the tact the man had. He was also a very friendly and genuine.”
 
 Ramachandra Babu too says that Nazir would always diffuse any tension on the sets with his words. “Even when the food served on the sets were bland, he would shake his head and ask, ‘Ithu kollaam ale?’ When Nazir sir is not complaining, then why would anyone else,” he laughs.
 
 
 
 Prem Nazir was the only Malayalam celebrity to be featured in a set of limited edition stamps, released by India Post, to commemorate the centenary of Indian cinema in 2013. The collection featured 50 of India’s most prominent singers, actors, directors and music composers who won national acclaim.
  
 
 
 Before the CID and CBI franchise featuring Mohanlal and Mammootty spread their wings, CID Nazir was at the forefront — brandishing his James Bond-like gimmicks. Prem Nazir featured in two movies — CID Nazir and Taxi Car — as the stylish character. He has also acted as a CID officer in the 1955 movie CID, 1969 films Kannur Deluxe. Rahasyam and the 1971 movie Lanka Dahanam.
 
 
