HYDERABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) may be looking forward to upgrade passenger amenities in various stations across the zone, but when it comes to providing security on trains it seems to be all at sea. As many as 1,100 thefts were recorded on trains till November last year. Of these, only an abysmal number of cases were cracked. 

 Data from the   (GRP) records reveals that property worth Rs 1.64 crore was stolen in 2016. Property worth only Rs 23 lakh could be recovered, making for just over 14% recovery percentage. Interestingly, almost none of the railway property lost (engineering materials, scrap metal, electronic devices) could be recovered, sources said.
 
 Loss of jewellery tops the list of thefts in running trains, followed by theft of luggage.  , well-organised luggage lifting and chain snatching gangs too have contributed significantly to the high figures, the data revealed. Mobile phones and laptops have become the favourite targets of these gangs, say insiders.
 
 "The main reason for the recovery being low is that the information chain gets cut off. It's usually so well organised that in case of robberies, the target (luggage or person wearing gold) is identified and the information passed on through social media. Even after the theft, the stolen goods pass through various hands, making it difficult to trace them," said a GRP official.
 
 Of the total thefts, only 38-40% are detected despite CCTV surveillance at stations. "In many cases, especially luggage or laptop thefts, the victim realises the loss much after the robbery. The gangs operate in multiple cities or towns and even exchange the luggage with look-alike bags, resulting in the delay. By the time the victim realises and informs the cops, the material might have been sold off," said Gurushankar, a   (RPF) officer. 
 
 Passengers who approach the policemen for help also rue how they regularly face hesitance to register petty cases. "I had lost my wallet while travelling in  , but when I went to the cops, they questioned me for almost an hour. I felt as if they did not believe what I was saying. I finally left the spot frustrated," said a complainant P Venkatesh Rao. 
 
 The drugging menace on trains, however, is on the decline, as per GRP records. From 15 cases recorded in 2015, the numbers have come down to 12 in 2016. Of these 12, four were reported in the Secunderabad division.
 
 
