In the   for 2017-18, while spending on rural health, Swachh Bharat in rural areas, rural housing and the rural job guarantee scheme is up considerably, urban counterparts of these schemes are sidelined. Significantly, Budget allocations for education, especially higher education, and various other social welfare policies ranging from pensions for elderly to nutrition for children, crop insurance and drinking water have not seen a significant increase, though the need remains as dire as ever.

 The BJP-led NDA government appears to have come around to the same conclusion that the UPA did a decade ago during its rule - that it is good politics to provide a 'human face' to its fiscal policies. This may have been spurred by the recent demonetisation that affected the poorer sections in rural areas most but it also carries the stamp of Prime Minister Modi's own priorities. And, there is perhaps a desire to earn the goodwill of rural people in the forthcoming elections.
 
 Allocation for the National Health Mission has seen a jump of 20% over the previous year's revised estimate. This will help in ironing out some of the wrinkles in the vast network of healthcare delivery in the country's hinterland. However, as a share of total expenditure it still languishes at about 2.2%, compared with last year's 1.9%. Experts have repeatedly said that health expenditure needs to be pushed up to around 6%.
 
 Central spend on education has, however, not received the boost that was expected, with the government perhaps looking at the private sector to take up the slack.   spending is up by just 4.4%, and surprisingly, higher education allocation is at a standstill at Rs 1,300 crore. Spending for the all-important Mid Day Meal scheme is up by a small 3% over last year and it is actually below the level reached in 2014-15.
 
 Swachh Bharat, the PM's favourite programme of building toilets, has received another boost with spending slated to touch nearly Rs 1,400 crore in 2017-18, up by almost 33% over the current year. But bizarrely, allocation for the urban counterpart is stagnant at Rs 2,300 crore.
 
 The rural job guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) has received a boost with allocation reaching an all-time high of Rs 48,000 crore compared with the Budget allocation last year of Rs 38,500 crore. It remains to be seen how the deficit (between expenditure and allocation) being faced at the gram panchayat or block levels will be tackled. With two months to go, gram panchayats have spent Rs 3,469 crore more than they received as per the government's own data. Activist Aruna Roy said another Rs 10,000 crore may be spent in the remaining two months of this financial year.
 
 The child nutrition programme, ICDS, which faced a funds cut last year has received a minor increase of about 5% bringing its allocation to just short of what it was two years ago. A related scheme of maternity assistance has, however, received a massive boost with allocation zooming up from Rs 634 crore this year to Rs 2,700 crore for the coming year. This was promised by Modi in his post-demonetisation speech on December 31.
 
 One of the biggest let-downs in this Budget is pensions for elderly and a clutch of related programmes under the National Social Assistance Programme. Allocation for these has remained rooted at Rs 9,500 crore although the case for a respectable pension to society's most vulnerable sections like elderly, widows etc, has been repeatedly pressed over the past few years.
 
 Although total expenditure of the central government is to go up by 6.5% in 2017-18 compared with the current year, allocation for dalits and adivasis through various schemes and special provisions for the respective ministries is up by only 5.6% for dalits and 4.7% for adivasis. Activists have repeatedly pointed out that even this spending is mostly of generic nature and not directed at real transformative results.
 
 
 
 
 Rural job guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) spend up by nearly 25%.
 
 Health budget up by 24% but still 2.2% of total expenditure.
 
 Education budget up by 8% but still 3.7% of total expenditure.
 
 Higher education allocation at a standstill at Rs 1,300 cr.
 
 Spending on Mid Day Meal scheme up by only 3%. Swachh Bharat (Rural) up by 54%; no increase in Swachh Bharat Urban.
 
 Drinking water programme spend up by just 0.8%.
 
 No increase in spend on pensions for elderly, widows.
 
