GURUGRAM:   on Wednesday threatened to move the National Green Tribunal ( ), claiming authorities had failed to follow   for   under way on the  .

 At present, construction of underpasses is in full swing at three important places — Shankar Chowk, Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk — on the highway.
 
 For the past 15 days, air pollution level in the city has been unusually high. According to the data provided by the Central Pollution control board ( ), the city recorded the worst air quality index (AQI), topping the charts of India’s most polluted out of 28 cities. While the 24-hour average concentration of PM2.5 touched the 240 mark,   crossed 350.
 
 “Be it a building or an infrastructure project, construction norms must be followed. Authorities have reduced green cover near Iffco Chowk by cutting trees for developmental work and are violating all construction norms. As a result, dust pollution has gone up drastically in the city. If the authorities themselves fail to comply with the norms, we will have to approach NGT to intervene,” said city-based environmentalist Vivek Kamboj.
 
 Some activists said while undertaking an infrastructural project, not just construction norms of MoEF, but also guidelines of the Indian Road Council (IRC) are required to be followed.
 
 Sanjeev Saxena, another activist, said, “There are certain specifications and standards to be maintained while carrying out construction of roads, flyovers or underpasses. The agency responsible for construction is not only required to maintain the road, but also ensure that dust pollution remains under control.”
 
 Giving example of construction projects in Delhi, Niranjan Raje, former member of Environment Pollution Control Agency (EPCA), said, “Look at DMRC construction projects near Delhi Haat — the site is well covered with metal barriers, and sprinklers are used to control dust pollution. However, there is no such mechanism in place at construction sites on NH-8 in Gurgaon. Further, the authorities have also cut trees that hold the soil. This has led to increase in not just PM2.5 level, but other pollutants such as oxides of nitrogen and carbon monoxide.”
 
 Activists blamed Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) for not keeping a check on violation of construction norms on the national highway. 
 
 “Three major spots on the national highway have been dug up, which leads to dust flying in the air. The pollution board has turned a blind eye to these violations,” alleged Kamboj.
 
 Some of the construction norms include regular use of sprinklers at construction sites, use of metal or tarpaulin barriers and maintenance of the road to contain dust pollution.
 
 
