COIMBATORE: It's hard to miss the colourful rows of pots on either side of the road as one drives through  . However, there is nothing   of their owners, who face a severe water crisis.

 It has been 16 days since any part of Poosaripalayam, in Coimbatore Corporation's Ward 21, received a drop of drinking water. It is one of five city wards completely dependent on  . “They are not connected to Pilloor or Athikadavu,“ a corporation engineer said.
 
 Though it has been only a little over four days since water supply from Siruvani stopped completely , it was earlier reduced to a third of the supply. Three weeks ago, residents got 95MLD, but supply is now just 30MLD.
 
 The areas worst hit after water supply from the dam came to a halt are PN Pudur, Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Seeranaickenpalayam and Poosaripalayam.
 
 “We have supplied these areas with lorry water for the past 10 days,“ a corporation engineer said . “We are trying to send water lorries at least once every seven to 10 days to these localities.“
 
 Ground realities, however, are a far cry from the rosy picture the civic body is trying to paint. On Friday morning, 200 residents from Poosaripalayam with plastic pots blocked Sundapalayam Road for half an hour. They said their water pots had been empty for at least two weeks.They refused to disperse until an AIADMK functionary and the Saibaba Colony po lice rushed to the spot and somehow managed to bring two water tankers to the neighbourhood.
 
 While residences close to Thadagam Road get water once in 16 days, as you drive farther away , the supply reduces to once in 21 days.
 
 Coimbatore Corporation says they have set aside 10 lorries for the five wards.
 
 “We send at least two lorries on multiple trips to each ward every day,“ said Rajesh, assistant engineer in charge of drinking water in west zone.
 
 “They made more than 43 trips on Thursday , but since residents take six to 10 pots each, the supply is not adequate. We will regularise supply soon,“ he said.
 
