HYDERABAD: Dalit scholar, Rohith Vemula’s suicide at the University of Hyderabad, which led to widespread debate over caste discrimination in India — both on university campuses and outside — has found a prominent mention in the   International’s ‘State of the World’s   2016-17’, released on Wednesday. 

 The 26-year-old PhD student was found hanging in his hostel room on January 17, 2016. This was days after he, along with four others, was suspended from the varsity following a spate with members of the  .
 
 Along with the Vemula incident, the NGO, in its annual study, has compiled cases of human rights violations reported from across 405 countries. Among them, 12 are from India.
 
 While detailing the Vemula case, which led to protests across the country and violence faced by Dalit communities last year, the report stated: “In January, the suicide of Dalit student Rohith Vemula led to nationwide protests and debates on the discrimination and violence faced by Dalits in universities. In March, the police arrested students and faculty peacefully protesting at the University of Hyderabad, where Rohith Vemula had studied.”
 
 The other cases that are highlighted in the report are the protests that broke in Una, Gujarat in July last year “following the public flogging of four Dalit men by a vigilante cow protection group for skinning a dead cow — a traditional occupation for certain Dalits” and the alleged rape of a Dalit girl Jisha, in Kerala. “In May, a Dalit law student from Kerala was found raped and murdered at her home. The police had failed to investigate previous complaints of caste-based discrimination by the family,” the report stated.
 
 Highlighting extensive abuse faced by Dalits and Adivasis during 216, the report upheld official statistics (released in August) that showed “more than 45,000 crimes against members of Scheduled Castes and almost 11,000 crimes against Scheduled Tribes were reported in 2015”. “Dalits in several states were denied entry into public and social spaces, and faced discrimination in accessing public services,” it read. 
 
 The report also touched upon the harassment and intimidation faced by human rights defenders and organizations by cow protection groups. “Vigilante cow protection groups harassed and attacked people in states including Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka,” stated the report, highlighting the Jharkhand incident where bodies of two Muslim cattle traders were found hanging from a tree. 
 
