NEW DELHI:Young Gokul Das, holding on to his father’s shirt, is awestruck by the busy roads of the capital as he struggles to carry massive drums slung from his shoulder. Das and his father will provide a vital service during the Durga Puja, which is incomplete without the almost continuous and hypnotic beats of huge drums, better known as dhaks. 

 The drummers, or dhakis, are struggling to earn money during the five-day festivities in the capital. Das and his father are among the 200-odd drummers who have arrived here from tiny villages in   districts of Malda, Murshidabad, Midnapore and Birbhum. They are struggling financially as the floods last month destroyed their rice crop and fields. 
 
 Playing dhaks at various pandals in the capital could help these part-time drummers recoup financially. Train services in north Bengal were severely affected by the floods since August and this forced the dhakis to hire buses to travel to Delhi this year, spending an exorbitant amount of money on travel. “My father and my younger brother too came to Delhi to earn more. We need money badly,” reveals Gokul, a resident of Egra in Midnapore. 
 
 With people struggling to cope with the aftermath of devastating floods, many drummers could not even decorate their dhaks with the distinct feather frills that give the Bengal drums their unique look. “There are no more feathers available and we are completing some of our work here by replacing feathers (usually dropped by Siberian cranes during winter season) with pieces of plastic. It has been really bad for us these days, some of our drums were also damaged due to the floods,” says Malda resident Rabi Das, who is waiting on a footpath outside the   for a Durga Puja organiser to offer him a contract. Perhaps, this is the last time Rabi will play the dhaak during Durga Puja as he plans to sell his instrument to meet his expenses. 
 
 The floods also forced some of the dhakis to cut trees growing on their land to make new drums. They usually save Rs 5,000 through the year for travel and stay in Delhi. “We are staying at the New Delhi   Bari to save on expenses this time,” says  , who has been hired for Chittaranjan Park B-block Durga Puja. He and his fellow drummers will earn Rs 12,00015,000 for five days. 
 
 The traditional musicians are struggling as younger people are not keen on following a poorly paid career and competition from recorded music is eating into their income. “Playing the dhak needs a lot of energy and also calls for a lot of movement and dancing, which most people do not wish to pursue. This is a dying profession, which even my children would not pursue until there is some incentive,” says Prashanto Das, resident of Bolpur in Birbhum district. “We’ve agreed to pay them more due to their plight. This is afestival of happiness, we don’t want them to go back with gloom,” said  , from the New Delhi Kali Bari Durgotsav Committee.
 
