   Last December, “smart” Jhattipur in Panipat district was hailed by media reports as the first Haryana village to go cashless. It already boasted of CCTV, Wi-Fi, e-toilets and a solid waste management system. Nestled between towering palace-like banquet halls and import-export industries, just 90km from Delhi, Jhattipur became a symbol of India’s rural hinterland embracing a digital future. But the vision of people swiping away effortlessly to make their atta-dal purchases is still far from real.    The village, which has around 1,050 households and a literacy rate of over 80%, is nowhere near its goal of going completely cashless. Panipat deputy commissioner Chander Shekhar Khare now prefers to call it “cashless-enabled”. Though nearly the entire adult population of over 4,500 people, as well as some children above 10 years, have accounts in one of the two banks there, ICICI and Sarva Haryana Grameen Bank, there are no point-of-selling (PoS) machines in the village yet. Even when they do get the machines, Wi-Fi provided by the panchayat is limited to an hour a day, restricting use of digital wallets.    Only a few retailers like the neighbourhood barber, Atal Sewa Kendra and the small grocery store have digital payment apps like Paytm and SBI Buddy. Even there, the urgent need to use digital options has receded with cash back in ATMs. Grocery owner Sandeep Garg says that only Rs 500-Rs 600 of his total daily sale of Rs 2,500 comes through Paytm. “The app was used more in November and December. Now only when people want to spend Rs 100-500 they use the app, not for small purchases,” he says. Nationwide too, cash is creeping back. According to RBI data, the volume of digital transactions fell by 10% in January compared to December. These were also 7% lower by value.    Yashpal Dhanda, who runs a pharmacy, says that he does not have a smartphone. During the cash crunch after demonetisation, he, like the others, managed on credit. “When they got money, they paid,’’ he says.    Though people have managed to tide over the currency shortage for their daily needs, for some the struggle continues. Former state electricity board employee Ram Kumar Ahlawat recounts his troubles. “My daughter is getting married in a week. Every week for the last one month I have lined up at the bank to withdraw money. I have given credit where I can but everyone wants cash. It has been nerve-wracking since I can’t postpone the wedding.”    Jhattipur is a fairly prosperous village, with most households owning land. While the rich may have fallen back on cash out of habit, for the poorer families lack of means dictates the choices they make. Soman Sirswal, a housewife and mother of three, says she continues to use cash for her daily needs. “Mujhe to laage, aise to na hon laage (I don’t think it can work),’’ she says candidly when asked if it was possible for her to go cashless. “Neither my husband nor I have a smartphone. We had some problem with cash for a few days in November but we managed somehow. We barely have any money in the bank, how can we use a phone or a card?’’ she asks.    But some progress towards banking has been made. ICICI manager Aman Kaushal says that when the bank adopted the village a year ago, there were only 400 bank accounts. “We have opened 1,700 zero balance accounts in a year by going door-to-door. We have also opened three current accounts for a PDS shop and two grocery stores and will be providing them with POS machines within a few days,” he says. Sarva Haryana Grameen Bank also vouched for about 4,000 accounts from the village.    Despite the poor level of acceptance, sarpanch Ashok Kumar is optimistic. “PM Modi has taken a great initiative and it is our responsibility to do our part. Once the POS machines are installed I am sure that there will be a sea change,” he says as he gets busy organising a “cashless” mela over the weekend.    Clearly, for the government’s vision of cashless villages to be realised, it will take more than a few swipes.