CHANDIGARH: The Union budget got a mixed response from businessmen and industrialists gathered at the headquarters of the   ( ) in Chandigarh on Wednesday.

 Most industrialists called it a progressive budget that provided tax relief to middle class and would bring transparency and boost growth in all sectors.
 
 Rumjhum Chatterjee, chairperson, CII northern region, termed it a smart and positive budget. She said, "It is a comprehensive and smart budget. Each sector is given consideration. This budget brings positivity and the best part is the relief given to micro small and medium enterprises (MSME). It would help in economic growth and would create more job opportunities."
 
 R M Khanna, former chairman, CII northern region, called it a progressive budget, saying demonetisation has turned out to be a blessing for the country. He said, "The government wants to encourage growth in almost every sector. We cannot say that we got all what we wanted but we can progress with what is announced. Demonetisation has proved to be a blessing for the country as black money and corruption will be curbed."
 
 Sanjay Khurana, chairman, CII   council, said, "The highlight is the increase in infrastructure, reduction of tax rate of MSME is definitely going to boost economy and this long pending demand is fulfilled this time. Digital India and Skill India would set course of better India."
 
 However, some were not impressed with the budget. 
 
 K S Bhatia, chief executive officer (CEO), Pumpkart, said, "It seems government is not encouraging women entrepreneurs. We were expecting something for them as well. They should have been given 10 years of tax holiday. Ignoring women is like ignoring half of population and by ignoring them, overall growth is not possible."
 
 Similarly, R S Nibber, chairman, Mohali zonal council, CII, said, "Reducing tax rate for MSME is proposed for the first time but it could prove more negative than positive. MSMEs are already in a bad shape and capping them could hinder their growth and development."
 
 Rumjhum Chatterjee, chairperson, CII northern region
 
 Clubbing general and railway budget is a welcome move. The government approach is integrative and various proposals would clean up the system and bring growth
 
 Manmohan S Kohli, former chairman, Chandigarh council, CII
 
  minister rewarding the honest taxpayer is never heard off before. This is an indicator of a change indicator We expect more tax collection and more growth
 
 K S Bhatia, CEO, Pumpkart
 
 Half of the population has been ignored. No importance has been given to women entrepreneurship
 
