CHARMINAR: Even as Prime Minister   landed himself in a controversy over his 'bhed-bhav' remark during electioneering in Uttar Pradesh, AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi fired a salvo at Modi. 

 Modi's remarks made during a public meeting at Fatehpur on Sunday attracted the ire of many political parties who described the speech as communal. 
 
 The Prime Minister at a rally had said that if electricity was provided during Ramazan, it should be the same during Diwali too and there shouldn't be any discrimination. He also followed it up saying, "if there is a graveyard in a village, a Hindu cremation ground should also be provided". Sharply responding to the 'bhed-bhav' remark on his twitter handle immediately, the AIMIM leader whose party is also contesting the   polls, fired a series of tweets against the Modi's remarks. Asaduddin's first tweet says: "Goa mein beef available Maharashtra mein beef ban, bhed-bav nahi hona chahiye Mitro." Using the Prime Minsiter's now oft-repeated word in his speeches 'Mitron' (friends), Owaisi asked why beef is available in Goa and it is banned in Maharashtra. "There should be no discrimination," he said using the Prime Minister's words in the UP rally. "Zakia Jafri aur Najeeb ki Maa Ko insaf Milna chahiye Yeh Bhed-bhav nahi hona chahiye," he said in another tweet. The 77-year-old Zakia Jafri, it may be mentioned here, is the widow of  , a former Congress Rajya Sabha member who was slain in the Gujarat riots of 2002. 
 
 Najeeb Ahamad, a bio-technology student from Bihar who has been reported missing since October 15, 2016 from JNU, Delhi and his mother   is alleging that his son disappeared after an altercation with ABVP activists. In his tweets, Owaisi said in both cases, justice should be done and they should not be discriminated against.
 
 The MIM leader's another tweet reads: "Anganwadi Ka Budget minus Hogaya Desh ke Masoom Ghareeb Bachaon se Bhedbav nahi hona chahiye." Owasi said the budget for Anganwadi education and poor had fallen driving home the point that 'there should be no discrimination'. Signing off, Owaisi fired another salvo at the Prime Minister saying: "400 mein Ek bhi Musalman candidate nahin. Bhedbhav nahin hona chahiye".
 
  The MIM leader pointed out that the BJP had not fielded a single Muslim candidate in the 400 assembly seats it is contesting in UP. 
 
 "There should be no discrimination," he remarked once again responding to the PM's speech.
 
 Responding sharply to the 'bhed-bhav' remark on his twitter handle, the AIMIM leader fired a series of tweets against Modi's remarks. Asaduddin's first tweet says: "Goa mein beef available, Maharashtra mein beef ban. Bhed-bhav nahi hona chahiye Mitro."
 
