NEW DELHI: By questioning the constitutional validity of  , the Centre had contradicted the stand taken in 2001 by the then   government which had said that personal law could be a legitimate basis for discrimination, counsel for All India Muslim Personal Board   told the   on Wednesday.

 Sibal had argued that personal law practice like triple talaq could not be termed either right or wrong as it is a matter of faith and hence fell outside the purview of the test of constitutional morality. But attorney general Mukul Rohatgi said since the board claims it to be part of personal law, it must meet gender justice, equality and women’s dignity as mandated in the Constitution.
 
 Sibal said after the SC in the Shah Bano case ruled that a divorced Muslim woman was entitled to maintenance under Section 125 of CrPC beyond the ‘iddat’ period if she had not remarried and was unable to maintain herself, Parliament had enacted the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 to step around the ruling in 1985.
 
 This law was challenged by Danial Latifi and the SC judgment in this case in 2001 recorded the then NDA government’s submissions through its solicitor general, who had defended the validity of the Act saying, “Personal law is a legitimate basis for discrimination, if at all, and, therefore, does not offend Article 14 of the Constitution.”
 
 Sibal said, “The governments have changed and the law officers have changed. And, there is a change of stand now. Then they had argued what AIMPLB argues today that perceived discrimination in personal law practices could not be termed to be violative of Article 14. But the NDA government now argues that triple talaq, a personal law practice, must be struck down because it is discriminatory.”
 
 Sibal did not mention that matters of a community’s faith, depending on the exigencies of a situation, had always been a matter of convenience for any government, be it NDA or UPA. In September 2007, the UPA government had filed an affidavit in the SC in the case relating to dredging of Rama Sethu in Palk Strait, which was challenged by petitioners, including Subramanian Swamy, arguing that the Sethu is a place of worship and matter of faith for Hindus.
 
 The UPA government and Archaeological Survey of India in a joint affidavit had said: “The petitioners while seeking relief have primarily relied upon the contents of the Valimiki Ramayana, the Ram Charit Manas by Tulsidas and mythological texts, which formed an important part of ancient Indian literature, but which cannot be said to be historical records to incontrovertibly prove the existence of the characters or the occurrence of the event, depicted therein.” Doubting the existence of Rama and Ramayana had created a furore that had forced the UPA government to withdraw the affidavit.
 
 Though Sibal was right in arguing that the SC, in its 67-year history, never struck down any personal law practice, the Bombay HC had brushed aside the practice of Hindus not allowing entry of women into Shani Shingnapur temple and directed the government to permit women’s entry into the temple in March last year.
 
 A similar order by Bombay HC allowing entry of women into the sanctum sanctorum of Haji Ali Dargah was initially stayed by the SC, which later virtually forced the Dargah management to agree and make arrangement for women’s entry to the innermost chamber.
 
