Whether a decadent nawab, a night of mirth, a handsome lover or a mid-rung government official, Hindi cinema about the heartland has always completed the picture with a paan. With UP's mitti so soaked in betel juice, can removing it from its office walls be that simple?

 Ever since the new UP CM showed the writing on the wall to government offices – it's not a pretty picture – it has been a subject of public wonder whether our paan-demic can ever truly be contained.   came to Lucknow's Secretariat annexe, he saw the lashings of betel juice on its walls, and is now trying to conquer UP's paan addiction. For a habit as old as time (maybe, we’re not sure) and solidified for UPwalas as nawabi by the said gentry and their cinematic representation, will the Yogi succeed? 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 It looks like an uphill task, and not just because panwaadis think the cogs of the UP government "run on paan, cigarette and chai". Paans and their patrons are so inseparable they have inspired generations of songs, most unforgettably  's "Paan khaye saiyyan hamaro, saanwari suratiya honth lal lal". For some reason, a paan-stained pout on saiyyan was supposed to be sexy, or a mark of class ("Poore Raipur se alag hai, saiyyan ji ki shaan...", sang a much older Ms Rehman). And having a minion to carry around your spittoon so you don't have to deliver the contents of your mouth just anywhere meant even more class, if all the mujra-watching or chess-playing Awadh aristocracy from cinema is anything to go by. But is it time the saiyyans realised that tobacco-stained lips don’t look anything to sing home about, or at least restrict the 'chheeth' to their mulmul kurtas instead of their surrounding walls?
 
  
  Whether gori's yaar or saiyyan ka pyaar, they wouldn't be complete without a paan-stained pout to complement their handsome, saanvli surat. It even adds to their 'bushirt'-sporting shaan!
 
  
  
 
 The panwaadis near Noida's government offices, too, are confident that the paan ban isn't going to affect their business. Sellers in the   area, ARTO office and LIU office area catering to those who just want to survive the day, say these government offices are their lifeline.
 
 A paan seller near Sector 15 Metro station tells us, "Paan chewers buy in bulk. Most who work in nearby government offices buy six-seven paans in the morning after they get off the Metro. Ab paan jise jahan se khaane ki aadat ho jati hai, who jagah badalta nahin hai." When asked if the ban will affect his business, he says, "For a few days, it might if there are inspections, but not after that. Paan, cigarette, chai pe toh office ka kaam chalta hai." Another seller near the Excise office tells us, "If people can't chew paan inside office, they will come out for more short breaks and it might even increase our sales. Jo log paanch lekar jate thay, woh paanch baar aenge, teen aur cheezein lenge. Who knows, it could be even profitable for us!"
 
 
 
 While the Secretariat in Lucknow had to face a surprise visit by the CM, Noida's offices might be safer thanks to the 'Noida jinx' in UP chief minister-dom. A paanwallah outside the parking lot of Noida Authority tells us, "Yahan Noida Authority ke andar kitni paan ki dukaan hain, itni jaldi band nahin hoga. CM nahin toh DM visit kar sakte hain, so we are alert, but our customers will tell us if any such raids are planned. We get to know these things.
 
 
 Office-goers admit it's tough to get their paan-loving colleagues to not spit on walls and in dustbins unabashedly.   (name changed), a junior staffer in Noida Authority, says, "It's an annoying habit. Sometimes they even use the office dustbins of other colleagues without asking." Anand Gupta, a government employee, says, "Wherever there are additional spittoons, they are not used, so there is no point in assuming that placing spittoons will prevent spitting into dustbins or on walls."
 
 
 As many offices in Noida are on a wall-cleaning spree currently, contractors say getting the red stains off is not easy. Dilshad Khan, a contractor who works in Sector 137, says, "Painting a betel-stained wall requires lots of extra work. It needs to be cleaned, the stains scratched out, and at least three-four coats of white-wash are required. Labourers are not always ready to paint such walls and it requires a lot of pampering and 25-30% over their daily wage to get them to do it. You have to sweet-talk them. It costs 30-35% more to clean a paan-stained wall."
 
 Curious to know why no one has yet developed paan-resistant paint if this is such a chronic habit in the state, we put the question to paint sellers. Suresh Sharma, a salesman at a paint shop in Sector 18, says, "Trust technology to find betel-resistant paint. If we can find solutions to turn paan-stained teeth to white, we will also find a solution for walls. Demand aayegi toh supply bhi ho jaega. There is a kind of paint called enamel paint, and if washed every few days, betel stains too will go. But it is high-quality paint aur sarkari office mein kitna whitewash hota hai, yeh toh sabko pata hai."
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  From the serious chess-playing in 'Shatranj Ke Khiladi' to the mujra halls of movies like 'Pakeezah' and 'Umrao Jaan', the spittoon or 'peekdaan' has been an important prop to set the scene – if you were an aristocrat (or even an influential madam as played by Shaukat Kaifi (below) worth your salt, you didn't just have your personal spittoon, but an attendant to carry it around for you
  
  
 
 
 
 The Banarasi paan, perhaps the city's greatest definer in cinema, is an object of perfect craftsmanship.  , a popular paan seller in the Lanka area, says that "few people know that none of the ingredients in Banarasi paan are grown here. The raw material is brought from different parts which we process through a special technique handed to us from our forefathers."
 
 "We cook the raw betel leaf in a coal fire, which gives it a yellow tinge and added softness. The melt-in-the mouth quality of the Banarasi paan comes from this process. We mix kattha with pure itra and herbs for a special taste. Instead of black surti (tobacco), we use plain or yellow surti, which is treated and mixed with ingredients like cardamom and rosewater. It takes several hours of work to prepare the ingredients," explains Jagdish Prasad Chaurasia, owner of one of the oldest paan shops in Banaras.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Paan-chewing being a way of life in Banaras, some fight many odds for their daily fix. "A customer travels 15km daily to buy paan, battling traffic. Iss shahar ka ek riwaaz hai ki har paan khane wale ki apni fix dukaan hoti hai. Agar woh uss dukaan par nahi ja paya toh woh uss din paan nahi khayega," says seller Umesh Chandra Chaurasia. 
 
 --with inputs from Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
