BENGALURU: The two-day annual   event ` Calling' at Presidency School Bangalore North, saw dance and musical performances aplenty , each of them emphasizing India's rich cultural diversity and its endurance through centuries. Fitness expert, youth icon and socio-environmental activist Wanitha Ashok, and recipient of the National Nritya Shiromani award   were the chief guests at the event, held on January 12 and 13.
Explaining why India was Atulya (without an equal), Presidency College principal Pushpy Dutt said the essence of India could be heard in the Ganga's gurgling waters, the soft tune of the flute, the chiming of temple bells, the delicate movement of Kuchipudi and Kathakali dancers and the abiding respect for elders among the young.
 
 The rustic ethnicity of India found expression through a host of musical and dance performances, which left the audience spellbound. A play, Fight For the Throne, took the audience through a wide range of emotions. A satire on the society and system, the play initially had the audience in splits before the raucous laughter was replaced by a contemplative silence when the soldier took centrestage. The commitment of the solider to his nation and protection of countrymen was portrayed with a rare poignancy .
 
 
 
 
 Pratispardha 2016, the sports meet at Presidency School in RT Nagar that was held on December 22, 2016, saw discipline and fun coming together, as the students pushed one another to excel at a wide variety of track-and-field events.Deputy commissioner of police, Bengaluru northeast division, PS Harsha was the chief guest at the meet.
 
 Director of Presidency Group of Schools G Thangadurai, Presidency School Bangalore North principal Pushpy Dutt, a trustee on the Presidency board of management Shah were the other dignitaries present at the event. The proceedings commenced with the NCC cadets offering a guard of honour.
 
 Captains of the school's four houses presented a salute to the chief guest. To the rhythmic beat of the band, the students marched in perfect harmony . School captain Akshay Koshy , vice-captain Deepika N, sports captain Chaitra R and sports vice-captain Manish N led the school in marchpast. The torch was lit after the four house captains took oath.
 
 Presidency School, RT Nagar principal   and DCP Harsha declared the meet open. In his address, the chief guest highlighted the need to respect individual freedom. He advised parents not to impose their wishes on their wards. “They should be allowed to enjoy their childhood,“ he said.
 
 Besides track and field events, the sports meet also saw a wide array of other performances from the students, who showcased their skills in Laido, a Japanese martial arts form, Jian Wu, Chinese sword dance and   among others. Panchabhutham, a yoga display by students of class V particularly came in for praise from the spectators. The meet ended with the distribution of awards to the winners. Red House bagged the rolling trophy as the champion at the meet.
 
 
 
 
 In an attempt to instil entrepreneurial spirit among students, Market Day ,a special event was held on December 23, 2016 at the National Public School, Chikkabanavara.
 
 Students organized an orientation programme for parents to seek their support for Market Day . Students from classes VI to VIII made many items that were put on sale ­ hand-made jewellery , potted plants, key holders, etc. Students of classes IX and X, meanwhile, put up food and game stalls, which were abuzz with activity throughout the event. The event, supported by both the school management and parents, ended on a promising note, with students getting a hands-on experience of entrepreneurship.
 
