NEW DELHI: Despite CM   throwing his weight behind Meira Kumar, who was the Opposition’s pick for the presidential race, two of his party MLAs cross-voted on Thursday. It is also believed that out of the four   MPs, two had voted for NDA candidate Ram Nath Kovind, who finally won the election. 

 AAP MP from Punjab, Harinder Singh Khalsa, told TOI that he had not gone by the AAP’s line of thought and followed his “conscience” while voting. The other rebel MP Dharamvir Gandhi could not be reached for his comments. 
 
 Meanwhile, AAP dismissed the view that the cross-voting reflected the discord within the party. The party said 55 AAP MLAs had voted for Kumar.
 
 According to the voting tally, out of 69 MLAs, two AAP legislators were absent on the voting day. Of the 67 votes, six were declared invalid. Of the remaining 61 MLAs, 55 voted for Kumar votes and six votes went to Kovind. With four BJP MLAs voting for Kovind, it becomes apparent that two AAP legislators also cast their votes in favour of Kovind.
 
 An AAP spokesperson said the two MPs, who may have cross-voted, had already been suspended by AAP and hence, their voting for Kovind cannot be seen as a sign of rebellion within the party. In the case of MLAs, the obvious suspects are the rebels and those MLAs who have been suspended from the primary membership but still remain part of the AAP legislature party. 
 
 After casting his ballot, Karawal Nagar MLA Kapil Mishra told the media that he had voted for the person, who will reach Rashtrapati Bhavan, hinting at his backing for Kovind. 
 
 The second AAP MLA remains a mystery but party leadership cites that the person could be anyone from among those who were suspended from the primary membership. Another vocal rebel MLA, Devinder Sehrawat, did not cast his vote.
 
 Saurabh Bhardwaj, AAP’s chief spokesperson in Delhi, said the party was happy to see that without a whip, 55 AAP MLAs voted for Meira Kumar. “This outcome is good and those who have voted for Kovind are the usual suspects and their actions only prove that they are with BJP,” Bhardwaj added.
 
 
