LUCKNOW: The coffer of freedom fighter  , in which he stored funds for the Quit India Movement of 1942, is still revered by the villagers. That his house, family and village Rattu Chakbaina in   are suffering in neglect for the last many years is another story. 

 The villagers give such respect to the coffer that when British police came to seize his house and belongings during freedom struggle, villagers had to pool in money to get back the coffer from the police during the auction. The coffer is still placed in Pandey’s house and daily being worshipped by his family.
 
 His great grandson Vinay Pandey tells TOI, “My grandmother told me that once when our forefather Chittu Pandey was escaping from British police to continue his freedom struggle, the police raided our house and took away everything including utensils and clothes. His coffer was also seized by them. The villagers were so disappointed that they pooled in money to get back that coffer from British at a cost of Rs9 in the auction.” 
 
 While locals respect the coffer so much, Pandey’s house has fallen prey to extreme poverty and negligence by the government. His other great grandson Gyanendra Pandey says, “We didn’t get any sort of help from last many governments though they have always been asking for our support during elections. We didn’t get government jobs, nor did we get any kind of financial aid from them. We are surviving on the little earning we make through agriculture.”
 
 Recalling an instance as to how Chittu Pandey, also known as Shere-Ballia, was emotionally attached to this coffer, Vinay says, “My father told me that once when he was a kid, he wanted to buy a pair of shoes. So he asked his grandfather Chittu Pandey for some money to which he refused saying he doesn’t have any. My father checked his pocket playfully and found some coins inside it. To this, our forefather Chittu Pandey said that it’s not for his family but funds collected from people to support the freedom struggle.”
 
 
