TOI Follow up

 Kamini.Mehta@timesgroup.com
 
 Chandigarh: This year, the result of Class IX in government schools will be better with the education department clarifying that 15   are to be given after taking out one third weightage from the total of 180.
 
 On Tuesday, TOI reported that for the first time, the UT education department decided to give 15 grace marks to students studying in Class IX at government schools for the 2016-17 session.
 
 The decision led to confusion as the circular did not mention that grace marks were to be given when pass marks are 45 (when marks are calculated out of 180) or when they are 15 (when marks are calculated out of 60, which is one-third of 180). Due to this, there was no uniformity in result in government schools.
 
 On Tuesday, the education department called a meeting of cluster heads and informed them about the decision, which was communicated to school heads. According to officials, the decision was taken following CBSE’s directions that no chance for improvement is to be given to students sitting for internal exams, including those of Class IX.
 
 But the circular drew flak from teachers, who fear that giving grace marks to students this year will lead to poor results next year, when they appear for Class X board exams. Tuesday’s decision has disappointed them all the more.
 
 “Teachers are not in favour of the decision. When CBSE has taken the hard decision to improve standards of education and increased pass marks in the theory paper from 25 % to 33 % in the 2017-18 session, it would not be wise to give grace marks and that too out of 60. Teachers have already evaluated papers moderately and now grace marks increase the result from average 30 % to 70% to 80 %. Everyone will have to pay the price in the next session when the overall result of UT government schools will be in the range of 30% to 50 %,” said Arvind Rana, president, Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan Teachers’ Association of Chandigarh, who informed the education department about the confusion on Monday.
 
 Also, private schools say they are surprised at the decision. “I feel 15 marks is too much. Giving such high grace marks won't make the child work hard. This year, it's again board exams so we have to make them work hard,” said Jaya Bhardwaj, principal of Hansraj Public School, Panchkula.
 
 “Giving grace marks like this is making a mockery of the examination system. It is going to hit the foundations of the child’s future and promote mediocrity. Extent of grace marks is also questionable,” said Gurpreet Bakshi, administrator of St Kabir School in Sector 26, Chandigarh.
 
 “I would never allow 15 grace marks like this in any school-based exam. It is better to give students another chance to improve their grades. At least they will have to work harder. The role of schools and examining bodies is not to pass students. But to make them capable of passing,” said A B S Sidhu, director principal, Saupins School in Sector 32, Chandigarh.
 
 BOX—How the grace marks were given. 
 
 Out of 180 marks (being followed by certain schools)
 
 Marks in Maths –0
 
 Grace marks—15
 
 Total—15
 
 Result — Fail
 
 BOX: How it will be given--
 
 Out of 60 (one-third of 180, as being followed by other schools)
 
 Marks—0
 
 Grace marks— 15
 
 Total—15
 
 Result —Pass
 
 As a result, school’s result will improve.
 
 
