MUMBAI: The  , in an uncommon order in an organised crime case, granted bail to two accused in a foodgrain scam even as it held that “public distribution system (PDS) has failed miserably at the hands of public servants”.

 “They avail services of third persons who can be easily prosecuted,” said   in her order granting bail to accused Arun and Vishwas Ghorpade, accused in 2015 of   in Nashik and selling them in open market. They were arrested for offences under the  . The prosecution case was that Sampat Ghorpade, original accused number one and brother of the accused, used to buy reserved foodgrains stock meant for PDS from godowns of   and distribute them to 18 companies floated by other accused persons for three years. The accused “voluntarily surrendered before police in 2015, the HC said. 
 
 “The papers of investigation would reveal this is a scam,” said the court but found that “except for statements of witnesses, who are either porters or fair price owners there is no cogent evidence to throw light on the fact that Ghorpades had indulged in the activities”. Slamming the government for its sloppy attitude, the judge in her 22-page order, passed on December 22 but made available on Friday, said, “Government authorities were fully aware of these activities for over three years and could have saved further damage being done but for reasons best known to the state, no action was taken.” 
 
 After hearing submissions of counsel M S Mohite and Rajiv Chavan for Ghorpade brothers and public prosecutor SK Shinde, the court said, “There was no enquiry about the   in Nashik.” Holding that no specific role was attributed to the duo, the HC said, “The accused deserve to be enlarged on bail.” The bail was granted for a bond of ₹5 lakh with a direction that they cannot leave Nashik. 
 
 The HC also observed that the statements of fair price shop owners clearly revealed that all of them used to fabricate records to show that grains were transported for distribution under the PDS. The Nashik police had lodged a case under MCOCA after showing two prior chargesheet against the accused under the essential commodities Act. But the HC observed that the accused were not licence holders nor dealers of any essential commodity yet there were two chatgesheets filed against them in 2012. A Bhiwandi court had discharged them in the 2012 case. 
 
 The HC said that the question is whether merely because of two prior chargesheets —a requirement for a MCOCA case—can the prosecution be permitted to invoke provisions of the stringent law.
 
 “The public servants and fair price shop owners had allowed Ghorpade brothers to misappropriate foodgrains meant for PDS. The public servants are neither accused not witnesses. The officer's of Zilla Parishad and FCI had feigned ignorance about activist of Sampat Ghorpade," said the HC wondering why there was no police probe into FCI office bearers and district supply office. 
 
 “In a MCOCA case it is incumbent on the police to clearly indicate direct nexus between accused and the offence,” the court said. There is no violence or intimidation shown either, the HC said. 
 
 "This is a serious case where implementation of PDS has failed miserably. The public servants would claim negligence, be subjected to a departmental enquiry and ultimately get exonerated. It becomes easier to prosecute persons working at behest of license holders, public servants and transport agencies and make a farce of prosecution.”
 
 The HC lamented saying “prosecuting people like the applicants would not be sufficient” and said grimly, “It is incumbent upon the state to go to the root of the matter.”
 
 
