BHARUCH: Skill education together with textbook teaching can put the students on the path of real education as this would give a boost to their creative intelligence. 

 The   at   has started vocational education for class VII to IX students from Friday with this belief. 
 
 “We have started regular classes in carpentry, masonry, plumbing, gas and heater repairing, basic   for our students,” said N K Navadia, trustee, Sanskardeep School. 
 
 “We have decided to teach basic skills about different trades to our students as these would help them to become independent in their lives. Education can’t be limited to textbook syllabus alone. It is important that we teach life skills to our children so that they are able to solve their problems themselves,” he said.
 
 Bharuch district collector Sandip Sagale said “Developing household skills in students from class VII to IX is an innovative approach to education. This will help the students to think and work independently.”
 
 District development officer Anand Patel said, “This school always comes with some or the other innovative ideas. Other educational institutes need to learn from Sanskardeep School.” 
 
 The skill development centre and a planetarium on the school premises were inaugurated to mark the 80th birth anniversary of late D A Anandpura, an industrialist, who had played a key role in planned development of the residential area of GIDC Ankleshwar. 
 
 The skill development centre and the planetarium had incurred an expense of Rs50 lakh towards their construction. The funds were contributed by local industries. 
 
 The facilities shall be made available to all students of any school after 3pm daily, Sanskardeep School sources said. 
 
 Saumaiya Nathani, an Indian Foreign Service officer, is from Ankleshwar and an alumna of Sanskardeep School. She is currently deputed at Indian High Commission in London. 
 
 She said, “In European countries, students are taught many skills from the very beginning itself. People there have no hesitation in doing any household work. This is a very good initiative by the school.” 
 
