Mysuru: Against the backdrop of the University Grants Commission refusing to renew accreditation for Karnataka State Open University’s ( ) courses, , administration officials of Karnataka State Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University have approached higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddy to allow them to utilise KSOU’s infrastructure to run its classes.

 Since its inception in 2009, the music varsity, which has a student strength of 400 students, has been operating without a building it can call its own, and functioning out of the temporary campus that has been arranged at the government primary school building at Lakshmipuram. Students of the varsity are often forced to practice music under the trees within the school campus.
 
 The first music varsity in South India, started off by offering few courses in Carnatic and Hindustani Music with 45 students in 2009. However, the varsity’s portfolio has expanded considerably since, with courses now being offered in violin, flute and light music, among others. Many of these programmes are also offered at the varsity’s Mandya Research Centre. Courses in Yakshagana, drama and Gamaka, which were discontinued owing to poor response, have now been reintroduced as well.
 
 The music university’s vice-chancellor Sarvamangala Shankar, has been trying hard to get 100 acres of land at Varakodu village sanctioned from the government. Meanwhile, she is also making attempts to get the government to allow thevarsity to take permanent possession of the Lakshmipuram school, which is a heritage building and currently owned by the public education department.
 
 Sarvamangala told TOI, “The number of students at the varsity has increased over the years, and the infrastructure at the school campus is not sufficient. We need a bigger building for Yakshagana classes, while we are conducting drama classes in a car shed. Some students practice music instruments under trees and Veena classes are being held in the corridors.”
 
 The VC also lamented that the varsity had neither a staff room nor a Vadyagruha, where the instruments are housed. Pointing out that a four-member review committee headed by governor Vajubhai Vala had rated the music varsity ahead of other academic institutions such as the Janapada University, Sanskrit University and KSOU, Sarvamangala added, “All of them have their own buildings, but we don’t.”
 
 She said that permission to use the KSOU building to run the varsity’s classes would greatly benefit the students, apart from helping in the promotion of music and the arts. “We are planning on holding the convocation either in January or February, and waiting for the governor’s approval,” the VC added.
 
 8 years on, and no permanent building yet
 
 In 2009, the music varsity started out of a room at the University of Mysore, before being shifted to a building owned by Mysuru Urban Development Authority. It was subsequently moved to a heritage building belonging to the public education department at Lakshmipuram in 2010. Lack of adequate infrastructure has forced the university to hire 12 rooms at the Gana Bharathi Veene Sheshanna Bhavan, and a private auditorium at Kuvempunagar.
 
 
