BENGALURU: A whistleblower has sent a fresh email complaint to the chairman of stock market regulator   alleging several issues related to Infosys’s $200-million acquisition of Israeli software company   in February 2015, including that it was significantly overvalued and that some of Infosys’s top executives had personal interests in the acquisition.

 Asked about it,   categorically denied and refuted the allegations. “The insinuations being made are false, malicious and defamatory,” the company said in an email to TOI.
 
 Specifically on the point about over-valuation, Infosys said a third-party valuation was done by  , and the price at which Panaya was acquired was within the band recommended by them.
 
 The whistleblower’s mail, which was unsigned, follows another anonymous mail a few days ago that made charges about the excessive severance pay to former CFO Rajiv Bansal. That mail hinted at a connection between the payment and the Panaya deal, which Bansal was allegedly not happy about. The latest mail goes into some length on the Panaya deal. It alleges that the $200 million paid for it was nearly 25% more than the valuation that the firm got in a Series E funding round just a month prior to the acquisition. That funding, of $20 million, came from Israel Growth Partners (IGP), a private equity firm founded by two of Israel’s most experienced global tech leaders.
 
 The letter also points to some public information that suggests that all was not well with Panaya in the run up to the acquisition. The company did undertake a restructuring over 2013 and 2014, but it’s likely that by the time the IGP investment happened, the company was on surer footing.
 
 Panaya has a strong SAP connection, the firm where Infosys CEO   was CTO, prior to moving to Infosys in August 2014. Panaya automates SAP upgrades, and SAP co-founder and chairman Hasso Plattner is an investor in the firm. But Sikka had dismissed any personal interest in an interview to TOI last week: “Hasso Plattner was an early investor in Panaya. That makes no difference. We were aware of the company many years before that. This is a man worth more than $10 billion. And 5-6% in a $200 million deal is nothing.”
 
 Shriram Subramanian, MD of corporate governance research firm InGovern Research Services, said the onus is on Infosys to put out convincing material in the public domain to assuage shareholder concerns.
 
 Infosys said it takes any whistleblower complaint seriously and there is due process to investigate any complaint that comes to it. “If we do receive any query either directly or from the regulatory authorities, we will respond to it as per the due process,” it said.
 
