MUMBAI: With queues outside   getting longer by the day ahead of the July 31 deadline for filing  , the   has stepped in to provide 267   for Mumbai. These units or kits—computer systems with biometric scanners—are likely to be operational from Friday for the benefit of people who don’t have Aadhaar or want to link it with their PAN. Officials say there are around 15 lakh such people in Mumbai.

 Principal secretary (Information Technology)   told TOI that since it’s mandatory to link Aadhaar with PAN for filing I-T returns, the government is providing 267 enrolment kits – 85 for Mumbai city and 182 for Mumbai suburban—for expeditious updating of Aadhaar cards (linking with PAN). “We have worked out a plan with BMC. Most of these kits will be set up at facilitation centres of the BMC. We expect that most of the Aadhaar cards will be updated as early as possible. Nearly 270 kits have been provided for Pune,’’ Gautam said.
 
 Gautam said that in the initial stage, the 3,929 state-owned kits were deployed at common service centres-SPV of enrolment agencies across the state, following which all were deactivated. In the meantime, UIDAI came out with revised policy of having state-run centres, since CSC-SPV failed in activating the kits in a reasonable time. Now, a decision has been taken to deploy these kits through MahaOnline as an enrolment agency under the state registrar.
 
 Based on the state’s estimated population in 2015, around 92.76 lakh people are still out of the Aadhaar net, officials said adding that a majority of them were in the the age group of up to 5 years (52 lakh) and 5-18 years (39.78 lakh). 
 
 Gautam pointed out that the permanent enrolment centres (PECs) established across the state are mapped with nearby schools, where they conduct periodic camps. “MahaOnline has taken up providing Aadhaar service, all the 3,929 state-owned kits are deployed by it as an enrolment agency. We have provided one PEC per 25,000 population in urban areas and one PEC per revenue circle in rural region,’’ Gautam added.
 
