I am rocking,"   responds when asked how he is doing. The 45-year-old   commandant, who recovered from a coma after weeks, was being wheeled out of AIIMS in Delhi on Wednesday to continue his long journey to recovery. 

 An eye is covered in plaster, both arms are in casts and he's in a wheelchair but Cheetah says he plans to celebrate his release with his favourite Scotch whisky. He's upbeat and the one-liners come thick and fast from the man who had a close brush with death.
 
 "I am planning a big catch," Cheetah told his wife   on February 13, hours before he set off on an operation. On February 14, Uma waited by the phone for his customary 7.15 am phone call. It never came. Instead, she heard that he'd been shot when she called the control room.
 
 A few hours earlier, the CRPF commandant had led his team on a cordon-and-search operation in Hajin in Bandipore district. Militants began firing from a building and officers say Cheetah gunned down a dreaded militant, Abu Haris. But he faced nearly 30 rounds of fire and received nine bullet wounds, including one to the head.
 
 Uma describes it as "the worst time of her life". "I heard ' goli lagi hai'. I imagined the worst, but somewhere I believed if I could see Cheetah breathing, everything would be alright," she says, sitting in her house on the CRPF campus at Jharoda Kalan in Delhi. 
 
 The sentiment is echoed by her brother-in-law, Devender Kumar, who is also in CRPF. "I knew that if he survived the initial treatment, he would be OK. Cheetah has extraordinary willpower," he says.
 
 Cheetah was airlifted to AIIMS' critical care unit. Doctors say he was brought in a coma. "He responded to my voice and touch by either pressing my hand or a slight lip movement. I believed his determination would pull him through," says Uma.
 
  Cheetah has lost a lot of weight, has several fractures and is battling an infection. When a colleague asked him how he was, Cheetah replied, without missing a beat: "Put on some music, let's dance."
 
 
