HYDERABAD: With scams already gobbling up acres of prime government land, vacant parcels in Hyderabad district worth crores now face a serious threat from land sharks. All because the Hyderabad district administration has no money to protect these parcels by putting up compound walls and installing signboards warning tresspassers. 

 "With the   land scam already rocking the government, we are worried about land sharks eyeing more parcels of vacant land as land prices are shooting up in the city. " a senior revenue department official said, admitting that the department does not have enough funds to deploy private security or put up signboards to prevent encroachments.
 
 "Government prime land in 16 mandals of the city and it is our duty to protect it by constructing compound walls but we don't have the funds to do so," the official added.
 
 According to revenue records, there are 131 parcels of litigation-free, vacant government land spread over 59.13 acres. Though the district administration had estimated a cost of 9 crore for constructing compound walls it was able to only secure 68 land parcels at a cost of 3 crore. It is still awaiting the release of the remaining 6 crore from the chief commissioner of land administration ( ). 
 
 "The construction work was allotted to the Education and Welfare   Development Corporation (EWIDC) and the Telangana Housing Corporation. Compound walls were constructed at 68 locations (24 in Hyderabad and 44 in   revenue sub-divisional offices jurisdiction) only. We could not secure the remaining 63 land parcels due to fund crunch," said Hyderabad joint collector and in-charge collector, M Prashanti .
 
 "Post the creation of new districts, the flow of funds to us has totally stopped. The government is not even sanctioning the outstanding Rs 6 crore," she rued.
 
 With the compound walls construction coming to a complete halt, the administration has instructed tehsildars of all the mandals to keep a close vigil on vacant lands t, Prashanti added.
 
