When the   observed the birth anniversary of Bharat Muni as 'Theatre Day' on February 11, and a local theatre group staged the popular play ' ' by noted playwright Shankar Shesh, no one would’ve expected a controversy. But some members of the Haryana Kala Parishad objected to a certain line in the play by the titular character, saying that it projects   in a negative light. While the officials have asked for a change to be made to the script of the play by removing the line in question, the group that staged the play has called it "unnecessary censorship", refusing to cut anything from the play.

  The event was organised by the cultural organisation Sanskar Bharti as part of a nationwide program, in which various plays were organised by different groups in 400 cities at the same time, under the aegis of the Haryana Kala Parishad, a government body. The Gurgaon event was held at Bal Bhavan in Sector 4, where Gurgaon-based theatre artist   and his troupe performed the play.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 In a scene in the play, Dronacharya denies   the chance to learn from him, saying that his teachings are "only for Brahmins and Kshatriyas". Ajay Singhal, president of the Haryana Kala Parishad, has objected to this dialogue, saying that it projects Dronacharya as casteist. "Nowhere in the Vedas or even in the Mahabharata does it say that Guru Dronacharya discriminated against Eklavya on the basis of caste. He was a learned man who was above all this division. He was the teacher of princes, which is why he denied Eklavya a chance to learn under him – he could only teach royalty. This dialogue projects him in a negative light unnecessarily, and it should be removed from this play," he tells us.
 
 
  
  A scene from a previous staging of the play 'Ek Aur Dronacharya
 
 
 
  
 
 However, the play's director, Mahendra Kakkar, has said that there is no question of cutting anything from the play. He says, "I chose this play because it is relevant to the issues we face in today’s times. The audience also liked it when it was staged. But there is no question of any change or reduction in the script of the play. Entertaining such a thought is doing injustice to the playwright’s memory. I cannot disrespect the playwright and curb creative independence like this." 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Kala Parishad officials had earlier expressed interest in staging this play in all the districts of the state. However, after Kakkar's refusal to cut the 'offending' dialogue, officials say that in the future, the play will not be staged in any of the events sanctioned by the body unless the changes are made. Singhal, however, is optimistic that a solution will be reached soon. He says, "We will look at the script of the play and remove the objectionable part. After that, the play will be fit to be staged in all the districts of the state. In fact, it is a good play with a solid social message and we would want to stage it across the state, but only after this dialogue is removed. I'm sure a consensus will be reached soon."
 
 
 
 
