Surat: Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel has dashed off a letter to Union minister of road transport and highway, Nitin Gadkari, on Wednesday asking to issue a clarification on his allegations that the cable-stayed bridge on Narmada river was sanctioned by him in May 2014.  Gadkari, who accompanied Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the inauguration of the extra-dosed cable-stayed bridge and the petrochemical complex project at Dahej on Tuesday, had stated during his public address that the previous contract to build the bridge was terminated due to the non-performance of the agency and a new agency was appointed in May 2014, which completed the bridge construction at much lower price of Rs 380 crore. This was done when the Modi government came to power to counter the delay on the bridge construction by the UPA Government. The Congressmen in Bharuch had started a war on social media giving credit for the bridge to Patel and former PM Manmohan Singh. On the inauguration day, Patel had tweeted, thanking former PM Manmohan Singh and former FM for building bridge on EPC basis and thereby protecting people from toll costs. In his letter to Gadkari, Patel said that the first tender to build the bridge under BOT basis was awarded to Hindustan Construction Company (HCC) in 2012. This contract was terminated and fresh tender was issued on an EPC basis in 2013. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs under the chairmanship of the then PM Manmohan Singh cleared the project on EPC basis on December 28, 2013 with an allocation of Rs 503.16 crore.  Subsequently on February 25, 2014, Larsen and Toubro (L&T) signed the agreement at a far lower price of Rs 379 crore and construction work of the extradosed cable-stayed bridge on Narmada river began on March 3, 2014.  Patel also mentioned about the error committed by Gadkari’s ministry in sending the reply on the date of commencement of construction work of the bridge, which was mentioned as March 3, 2015.  Patel wrote, “I have always held you (Gadkari) in high esteem and hence, I am disappointed by your altering of facts to suit a political agenda. The PM’s rich track record of relying on half truths seems to have had a profound influence on you.”