Bhopal: The state government on Saturday launched   programme to help needy people. Chief minister   launched the programme, an initiative of the newly-formed happiness department, at a function organised at Tatya Tope Stadium.

 The state government claims that MP became the first state in the country where such a programme was launched. Under the programme, places have been identified in each district where citizens can donate whatever they want for needy people.
 
 The Anandotsav will be celebrated across the state till January 21, during which activities like traditional games, dance and music are being organised. Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country to constitute the happiness department.
 
 Anand Sabhas will be organised to bring positive approach in people’s life. Students will be taught how to live a stress-free life. Moreover, lessons related to make life joyful and meaningful will be included in the school syllabus, said CM Chouhan. “The lessons will help students adopt a positive approach and inculcate values among them for helping and taking care of needy people. Anand Sabhas will also be organised in schools,” he added.
 
 Chouhan has appealed to the citizens to get them registered as volunteers, who will be called Anandak. They will be imparted training to play an important role in publicising the Anandam programme.
 
 Chouhan said that anyone, who wishes to make other people happy, can visit website www.anandsansthanmp.in to become an Anandak volunteer. NGOs, government employees, cultural and business organisations can participate in the programme.
 
 Chouhan appealed to citizens to give away their belongings, which they have in excess, to needy people. Such items could be clothes, blankets, books, utensils, furniture or other material. He said that Anandam has been started initially at district headquarters and will be expanded in towns and panchayat level also. He clearly said that the Anandam programme was a voluntary programme.
 
 In the state capital, arrangements have been made at Tatya Tope Stadium, Concept School South TT Nagar, Sanjay Swimming Pool- Koh e Fiza, Govindpura Industrial Area and Swarna Jayanti Park Kolar Road. Similarly, arrangements have been made at all district headquarters.
 
 
