Chandigarh: To ensure no police complaint goes unheard, the Haryana government is planning to come up with helpdesks at 282 police stations and 18 public-contact points in the state that would be manned by para-legal volunteers to help complainants. 

 Each helpdesk, to be named ‘Police Mitra Kaksh’, will be built at a cost of Rs 15 lakh and be open round the clock in three shifts. To begin with, the contact points will come up at all major police stations. The state is also reviving the non-functional Haryana Police Complaints Authority (HPCA) to address complaints against misuse of powers by police.
 
 Apart from having a para-legal volunteer, each contact point will have a graduate, computer-trained volunteer. The volunteers would first listen to the complainant and only then refer the case to police officials for further action.
 
 Haryana additional chief secretary (home) Ram Niwas said the government wanted to put an end to grievances raised by people about police officials not listening to them. “People often talk about police not listening to them, the SHO tearing their complaint, and them having to make numerous rounds of police stations to get justice. We want to do away with this,” he said.
 
 The home secretary said time would be recorded as and when any complainant enters ‘Police Mitra Kaksh’ along with the police-response time. The decision has been taken in two meetings chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday and then on Wednesday.
 
 Ram Niwas added all ‘Police Mitra Kaksh’ will be air-conditioned with drinking-water facility. He said volunteers would be trained to be friendly with people. He said apart from police stations, ‘Police Mitra Kaksh’ would be opened at the mini secretariat and other public-contact points.
 
 Constituted in August 2010, HPCA has been lying defunct for years and now the state government has decided to make it functional soon so that police personnel are made answerable to people for their wrongdoings, added Ram Niwas.
 
 Questioned about harassment of youngsters by police in the name of ‘Operation Durga’, Ram Niwas clarified, “Directions have been issued to cops not to indulge in moral policing. The main purpose is to check those culprits who indulge in eve-teasing, harassing, chasing and trolling women.”
 
 On the issue of filling up vacant police posts, the home secretary informed, “We have already sent requisition for 5,400 posts to selection board and within a week requisition for remaining around 4,000 posts would be also be sent to the board.” However, there is stay from the High Court on the selection process of earlier advertised 5,000 posts of constables.
 
 
