GUWAHATI: Weathering all storms, political and otherwise, the Dalai Lama concluded his week-long visit to   on Tuesday with a promise to return to the border town of Tawang next January. 

 Chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh Pema Khandu has extended an invitation to the Tibetan spiritual leader to be back for a Kalachakra ritual - a complex practice in Tibetan Buddhism considered the embodiment of all Buddhist teachings in the world. The last initiation was held in January at Bodh Gaya. "The chief minister has invited His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama for the Kalachakra initiation here, which is the birthplace of the 6th Dalai Lama. He said he will discuss and positively look into the invitation by the chief minister," the CM's office said. 
 
 The Tibetan spiritual leader, who ignored a fuming China, drove more than 500 km from Guwahati to Tawang through Se La, the highest point in the region at an altitude of 13,700 ft, left this town - located just 37 km from the imaginary McMahon line that acts as the border between India and China - on Tuesday morning by a chopper to Guwahati. Later in the day, he flew to New Delhi and then to Dharamsala.
 
 During his stay in the state, he not only rubbished Chinese allegations that he was being used by the Indian government, but also called Beijing's attempts to take a call on the next incarnation as "nonsense". He announced that the relevance of institution of the Dalai Lama would be reviewed and people of   will take the final decision on this. He also expressed his willingness to return to his homeland once he gets the "green signal" from Beijing.
 
 The Tibetan leader spent four nights at Tawang, which had served as his first home after he escaped from Tibet in 1959 following an uprising against Chinese occupation. During his stay at Tawang, besides holding religious teachings for more than one lakh devotees over three days, he also made a 'homecoming' to the Urgelling monastery at Tawang, the birthplace of the 6th Dalai Lama.
 
