Almost the entire state cabinet, led by chief minister  , descended upon Aurangabad for the lavish wedding ceremony of Bhokardan MLA Santosh Danve, son of state BJP president Raosaheb Danve. A structure resembling a medieval palace was set up on the sprawling Jabinda Estate on the outskirts of the city.

 “Over 30,000 guests attended the marriage ceremony,” said state BJP spokesperson Shirish Boralkar.
 
 The bride is the daughter of well-known musician-composer Rajesh Sarkate. The entrance to the venue was brightly lit with chandeliers while a red carpet rolled from there to the stage where the couple was seated. The guests ranged from an unending list of VVIPs to bureaucrats and common people from Aurangabad and Jalna. Among the politicians who turned up were two Shiv Sena ministers of state, opposition leaders and MLAs cutting across party lines.
 
 The police kept a watch on the proceedings with drone cameras hovering over the venue.
 
 The ceremony was reminiscent of the wedding function of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s daughter in Nagpur in December. At least 10 chartered or special flights with VIPs were flown in to the city. There was Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Fadnavis, Mohan Bhagwat, Maneka Gandhi and Baba Ramdev.
 
 It may be mentioned here that a private member’s bill in the Lok Sabha seeks to put a limit on the number of guests to be invited and dishes to be served at weddings to check “show of wealth”.
 
 Many felt the celebrations could have been toned down given the severe drought in Marathwada for years, with several farmers ending their lives out of desperation.
 
 Non-VIPs who attended the wedding were upset that the dinner fare was not standard for all. While they were served chapatis, puris, dal, rice and vegetables, the spread for the VVIPs included several Maharashtrian, south Indian, north Indian and Chinese dishes. The VVIPs were served five or six types of sweets.
 
 The administration shut the major flyover linking the Beed bypass localities to the public and two-wheelers. Only VVIPs travelling in cars were allowed to take the flyover.
 
 Shiv Sena minister of state Arjun Khotkar, who is from Jalna district, addressed the gathering. Others who extended the their wishes former CM Narayan Rane, opposition leader Dhananjay Munde and BJP MP Sambhajiraje Bhosle.
 
 Shiv Sena chief  , key party functionaries and party ministers, including Aurangabad guardian minister Ramdas Kadam, skipped the wedding. Only two leaders from the region attended the marriage of Santosh, who is an MLA from Bhokardan.
 
 Last week, the state BJP chief had gone to invite Thackeray at his residence, Matoshree, in Mumbai.
 
 
