It may be a Ganpati or Durga Puja pandal, a social gathering or a cultural event, chances are that there would definitely be one or more stalls dedicated to health related services. The adage prevention is better than cure was never so supreme as it is today. Healthy diet, yoga exercise, fitness,is playing on the minds of young and old alike as non-traditional and holistic healers gain ground in the city. Fun too is being mixed with   as many are taking to Zumba to cut the fat and learn to shake a leg too.

 “Till a decade back only those in their sixties came to our mandal for doing yoga,” says Ram Khandwe, who heads the fifty year old   in Ram Nagar. “The young would either go for brisk walking or some sports. But that concept has changed and now even the youth feel that they need to do yoga for better health and fitness,” says Khandwe. In today’s competitive environment the perception is that Yoga strikes the perfect balance between physical and mental fitness. “We are now getting a lot of youth who want to start on yoga from an early age,” he says.
 
 When a pan India gym brand opened two gyms here the city rushed to enrol. “It was godsend as a well-equipped gym is the place for a full body workout,” says   who spends three hours in a gym every day. “Here I can adjust my timings and work out as per my convenience,” he says. “The city was waiting for such an opportunity and we found that people here were very health conscious,” says Jyotsana Shende of Talwalkar who opened two facilities in the city eleven years back. “Today people look beyond regular workouts so we keep adding group activities like Zumba or kick boxing and ensure that our personal trainers remain updated,” she says.
 
 The good old brisk walk got a shot in the arm when morning walkers clubs began to be formed in the city and a walkers’ street was created around Ramgiri the chief minister’s official residence. But that soon gave way to runners as youngsters who travelled extensively and took part in marathons brought in the trend. “I and a friend of mine participated in a full marathon and we could complete it. So on our return we created Orange City Runners group with six members just to keep that experience going,” says 42 year old businessman Amit Panchmatia. “Today the club has over 200 members and it’s still growing. We chalk out a calendar of all the marathons happening around the world and help interested persons to register for it,” says Panchmatia. The club also meets four days in a week and organizes training sessions with physiotherapists.
 
 Cycling too is a new fitness fad and people are investing money on high end bikes. Sitting on a bicycle and peddling is not enough feels 70 year old Trilokinath Sidhra a veteran cyclist. “The right posture and breathing through the nose and chest is important. If done properly, preferably in the early morning hours, it is the best way to keep healthy and de-stress,” he says. Many middle-aged men and women in the city are giving up on television and leisure time for exercising. "In last two years some 1000 international cycles have been sold in the city. My firm has sold 600," says   of Ncyclopedia. "Most of the buyers are in their mid-40s and are cycling for health," he says. Tarique Sani, a medico and IT professional who had trouble walking, took to cycling on his 49th birthday last year. "I couldn't walk for long and so once I took out my son's cycle and began to pedal. With ease I could cycle 10 kms. Encouraged, I began increasing the distance," says Sani who has already cycled for 400km brevet and is now aiming for 600 kms.
 
 Health activities are not confined to just workouts or physical exercises. Also gaining ground are meditation and what is now termed as soul engineering and emotional hygiene. Doing an activity which she terms as ‘Quiet Time’, psychotherapist Anushka Karira says that nearly 150 persons attend her guided meditation activity which she conducts free of cost at   in the morning hours. “I focus on transforming negative emotions into positive ones and the response has been excellent,” she says. “Meditation is the best way to destress and I now find it easy to cope with day to day problems and take things easy,” says Nirmala Pradyum who practices it every day. It’s the mind and soul too which has to be fit. And so students, professionals, housewives and senior citizens all thronged for the Inner Engineering sessions conducted by   recently. “Negativity emerges from the mind and if not checked it affects our physical health,” says Sharad Kumar a senior government employee who attends these sessions.
 
 
 
 Yoga: From the traditional to modern like power yoga, all formats are available. Those with medical issues, the obese and young students are all practicing it.
 
 Cycling clubs: Do Brevets which involves cycling 200, 400 and 600km in one calendar year. Many took to it for physical exercises but are now participating in competitive events
 
 Running: Runners clubs which help members to enrol for marathons across the country and around the world. Ultra-marathons, marathons in hilly terrains are being tried out by people in the age group of 30 to 60.
 
 Zumba: The high impact Colombian fitness dance is a big favourite with overweight housewives and young girls and boys.
 
 Gymming: High intensity workouts under guidance of personal trainers for those who want a sculpted body
 
 Meditation: For inner engineering and emotional hygiene. Sessions are attended by students, professionals and retired persons.
 
 Falun Dafa: High level cultivation of mind and body through meditation helps in developing tolerance through truthfulness.
 
 Tai Chi: A North Korean form of slow boxing which gives strength and helps in focussing better and enhances concentration.
 
 Pencil Therapy: A form of acupressure where a pencil is pressed between fingers. Is tried out for aches and pains in arms and neck.
 
 Twisting and spiral exercise: Improves the DNA of blood which is in spiral form.
 
