VISAKHAPATNAM: By the age of 13 years, these two talented twins from Vizag have become recipients of many national and international awards in  . Meet Pratham and Priyam Tated, class VIII students of   and ardent skaters.

 The twins started skating since 2006, when they were just three-years-old and received their first medal in the very next year. Since then, there is no looking back with the twins winning several medals in the district, state, national and international level as the years passed. Now, they are adept at roller, artistic and figure ice skating.
 
 Pratham and Priyam have won a total of 66 and 54 medals so far, respectively. While Pratham’s medals included 15 national level medals and one bronze medal in the international level, his younger twin Priyam has won 19 medals in the national level and four in the international level besides dozens of medals in the district and state level. 
 
 Pratham had won a bronze medal in 11th Malaysia Open National Figure Skating Championship held in April 2016 at Kuala Lumpur. Priyam has four international medals in his kitty, including a gold medal from Asian Open Figure Skating Trophy held at Manila Philippines in August 2016 and two silver medals in 17th Asian Roller Skating Championship in October 2016 at Lishui, China and another silver medal in the 11th Malaysia Open National Figure Skating Championship held in April 2016 at Kuala Lumpur. He had also got a bronze medal in ISU World Development Trophy at Kuala Lumpur. 
 
 Their elder sister Divya, a skater who had represented India, has been their motivation, claim the twins. “Our coach P Satyam and K Chittibabu also guide us besides our father  ,” said Priyam. 
 
 About their upcoming events, Pratham said, “In March, we have All India Invitational Cup at Delhi and in April Malaysian National Championship at Kuala Lumpur and Golden Cup at   are coming up. Between May and September, we have Selection Trials for Worlds, Dijon France Inline World Championship and World Championship at Nanjing China.” 
 
