GUWAHATI: The  , which has plunged into   following the resignation of its chief ahead of the  , may be shunned by   in the coming years due to its internal rift. 

 The apex literary body of the state, which was once guided by doyens of Assamese literature like Lakshminath Bezbaroa, Padmanath Gohain Barua and Maheswar Neog as presidents, has become the centre of controversy in its centenary year and is drawing flak from litterateurs and leading citizens for being allegedly run by people who haven't made any significant contribution in this field. 
 
 Citing its democratic set up, the Sabha said unless noted litterateurs come forward to join the Sabha, not just any literary stalwart can be made the president. Selection of a new president is turning out to be the most debatable issue after noted author   resigned from the post following differences with executive body members of the literary body. 
 
 "A permanent president of Sahitya Sabha has to be elected. Without fresh election, it is not possible to get a permanent president," said Sabha secretary general  .
 
 The crisis deepened when Borah had to resign from the president's post after he went against Rajbongshi, whose name figured in the 'suicide' of a former employee of the Sabha. Though some former Sabha presidents accused Rajbongshi of controlling the literary body by lobbying with some influential office-bearers of the organization, the secretary general rubbished the allegations. Despite the charges against him, Rajbongshi continues to enjoy the support of the all-important executive body. 
 
 Four noted writers, including two former presidents of the Sabha, recently resigned from a committee constituted for compiling the 100-year history of the literary body, which many believe was the crux of the ongoing crisis. 
 
 Many litterateurs and leading citizens have staged protests against the literary body's decision to extend the term of its present executive body by another year in 2016. The Sabha, later, revoked the controversial decision. 
 
 An outcry against the Sabha was witnessed after the reception committee of the centenary session banned the entry of Rajbongshi at the venue of the centenary session in Sivasagar in February. Eminent litterateurs feel that the Sabha should clear its name from all controversies for restoring its old glory. 
 
 Acclaimed writer and National Book Trust director Rita Chowdhury described the current developments in the Sahitya Sabha as 'unfortunate'. She said the president of the Sabha should be a distinguished litterateur. 
 
 
