Mumbai: India’s largest housing finance company   and the largest private lender   have slashed interest rates and are now offering home loans of up to Rs 30 lakh at 8.35% — the same rate which State Bank of India offers. 

 In terms of the new schedule of rates, salaried women borrowers will get home loans at 8.35% and others at 8.40% for loans up to Rs 30 lakh. In the case of ICICI Bank, loans above Rs 30 lakh will be available at 8.5% and 8.55% for women and other borrowers respectively. HDFC Bank offers uniform rates for men and women at 8.5% for loans between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 75 lakh, and loans above Rs 75 lakh at 8.55%.
 
 Last week,   intensified competition in the   segment by reducing its home loan rates by 25 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 8.35%. While ICICI Bank has reduced interest rates by 30bps from the previous rates, HDFC’s rate reduction is 15-20bps as the mortgage company had already brought down rates to 8.5% last month. ICICI Bank customers taking home loans in the affordable segment will also have the option to choose either a floating interest rate, or a fixed interest rate for the initial two/three years followed by floating rate.
 
 According to ICICI Bank officials, the last time home loan rates were at current levels was in 2009. However, at that time, deposit rates were lower and the bank was offering 3.5% return on savings deposits. Bankers say that interest spreads have come under pressure as there is no demand for  .
 
 “Customers who want to protect themselves from any possible hike in interest rates can choose the fixed rate option,” said an official. Further, borrowers can also choose to link their home loans with either the six-month benchmark or the one-year benchmark.
 
 ICICI Bank MD & CEO   said, “ICICI Bank is committed to support the government’s vision to provide housing for all by 2022. In line with this commitment, we have reduced the home loan interest rates for the affordable housing segment. With this announcement, customers of economically weaker section (EWS) and low income group (LIG) can avail the dual benefit of low interest rates from us and the credit-linked subsidy under the  .”
 
 
