BENGALURU: A 25-year-old man suspected of poaching was killed during a skirmish between the forest department and a group of four in Darshanakuli forest, near Uyyamballi village,   taluk, Ramanagara district in the small hours of Thursday.

 The victim has been identified as Guru Siddaiah aka Gurumurthy Siddaiah, a resident of Doddalhalli in Kanakapura.   alleged that they were shot at by the poachers. “But we fired in the air,” they said.
 
 While his three associates took to their heels after shots were fired, Guru died on the spot. “He died of a wound on his right chest,” Sathanur police said.
 
 A part of the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, Darshanakuli forest is about 70km from Bengaluru. The incident occurred around 2am on Thursday. Forest department officials claimed that it was a bullet from one of his associates’ guns that turned fatal for Guru.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests P Ramesh Kumar said that they had been aware of poachers being active in the area for the past week. “Late Wednesday night, the torches drew the attention of forest officials on patrol, who rushed to the spot,” he told TOI.
 
 A four-member forest department team, with an assistant conservator of forests and guards, was on patrol in a jeep when they stumbled upon four men with rifles in the forest, with electrical torches tied to their heads. “On getting close to the quartet, the foresters found that the members were carrying carcasses of two animals,” cops added.
 
 Forest officials informed police that they asked the poachers to surrender. “Instead, they turned their torches off, and started to fire at us. We fired in the air to scare them. When the firing stopped after some time, we found one youth dead,” foresters told police.
 
 Police recovered the carcasses of spotted deer and porcupine from the spot, besides a country-made rifle near Guru’s body. While forest officials lodged a complaint of trespassing against the gang in the afternoon, Guru’s brother-in-law Shivaraj filed a complaint with Sathanur police. In his complaint, he alleged that Guru was killed by forest officials.
 
 Ramanagara superintendent of police Ramesh Banoth said that they would question the forest guards to ascertain the exact sequence of events. “We ’ll scour the place carefully for evidence. I will then have to question the guards who opened fire. Statements of the three men who were with Guru will be vital to arriving at a conclusion,” he said.
 
 Woods a contested area
 
 Located between Kanakapura and Ramanagara, the Darshanakuli forest in Cheelandavadi belt often witnesses conflicts between the forest department and the local villagers. While officials are entrusted with protection of the forest, the jungle is a source of firewood for the villagers.
 
 “Forest officials don’t allow us to enter the jungle. Where should we go? We have no other means of livelihood. Under the pretext of protecting the sanctuary, the officials harass us,” said Siddaraju, Guru’s close relative.
 
 “We understand their situation, but under the guise of collecting firewood, many poachers are active in the forest. Whenever an animal death is reported, we get pulled up by seniors,” said a forest official, adding that the large number of deer and neelgai made it an attractive hunting ground for poachers.
 
 Spread across Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Ramanagara districts, the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary is a protected area under Section 18 of the Wildlife Protection Act. The sanctuary spans 1,02,753 hectares (2,53,910 acres).
 
