Edited

 Madurai: Local residents in certain wards of Madurai Corporation have been crying for basic amenities like regular & clean drinking water and good roads for quite some time, but their call have fallen on deaf ears, it seems.
 
 Meenabalpuram and Sathyamoorthy roads in wards 5 and 6 of Madurai Corporation continue to be god-forsaken places lacking all basic amenities, despite many petitions filed in this regard.
 
 R Abubacker, water bodies’ protection movement and public welfare trust founder, who lives in Sathaymoorthy main road, says that they live in one of the worst wards in Madurai Corporation. 
 
 “So much is being done about the clean India movement, but ours continue to look like a garbage dump, with the channels and drains clogged with trash and sewage. I once met the commissioner and told him that no action was being taken on the WhatsApp photographs we sent to the corporation when he assumed charge. But even then no action has been taken,’’ he says. 
 
 A Manimegala, G Vijayalakshmi and Mahadevi of Sathyamoorthy main road, say that Madurai Corporation authorities have ignored their requests to complete the road. “It was paved with paver blocks for some distance and then they stopped abruptly. People take away stones from this partially laid road for their personal needs, thus making the roads a nightmare to travel,” says Manimegala.
 
 The channel which carries excess water from Sellur tank when it overflows into the river and other channels have sewage being discharged into them directly, thus polluting further the Vaigai River, says Abubacker. 
 
 The channel in the Sathaymoorthy 6th street is also a waterway that has turned into a sewage channel. 
 
 Sharmila, a student, says that they cannot leave the doors open in the evenings because mosquitoes swarm in and it is difficult to study and sleep.
 
 These women lament that another important aspect of their ward that the corporation continues to ignore is the water supply. “The water supply is very irregular. In some places like Alagapuri street only 20 of the 200-odd houses get the supply, while others have to purchase water from private suppliers.”
 
 T Parvathy of Jeeva street says that to make things worse, waste water comes through the taps, while some taps in Sathyamoorthy main road have not had water flowing through them for the past five years.
 
 Madurai Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said he would visit this ward, take stock of the situation and take corrective measures.
 
 
