KOZHIKODE: The youth from   in Kasaragod who have joined the   (IS) in   have communicated their resolve to continue their fight to ‘establish the laws of Quran on earth’.

 This was conveyed to their families through a Telegram App message sent on Thursday afternoon. The message was in reply to a query from the family about IS chief   al-Bagdadi’s direction to the non-Arab fighters to either return to their respective countries or blow themselves up.
 
 It was reported that Bagdadi had admitted defeat after the Iraqi army made significant advances in the IS strongholds. “I sent a message to Ashfaq Majeed (one of the youth) on Thursday asking him whether they would like to return, heeding to Bagdadi’s call. But he said they will fight till the last person is alive,” said B C Abdul Rehman, the relative of T K Hafeesudheen, who was killed in a drone attack in Afghanistan.
 
 “Our aim is to establish the laws of Quran on earth. With Allah’s help we will strive to elevate His words above all other things. To achieve our aim, we will utilize everything at our disposal. No one can block us. We will continue to fight with our body and wealth till the fall of the last person,” said the message.
 
 Another post in the message is against placing the forces of Shirk (polytheism) above the laws of Allah. “They (the polytheists) call their gods as president, king, member of parliament etc. They call Shirk as democracy, secularism, international law or freedom of speech,” said the message.
 
 The two messages clearly spell out the IS belief in the supremacy of the laws of Allah over all man-made ideology and institutions. The IS has declared that it is fighting for the demolition of all the forces which are against the words of Allah.
 
 The relatives of the youth from Padne believe that it was  , the former staff of the   in Kozhikode, who radicalised the entire group. Rashid had arranged classes for the youth at various places in northern Kerala. He had contacted his former colleagues and asked them to join the IS in Afghanistan.
 
 “Rashid spoiled the lives of the rest in the group. The families of the youth had a good reputation in the society. Hafeesudheen’s grandfather had donated 50 cents of land in a prime locality in Padne to set up a government hospital, which would now cost crores of rupees. With Hafeesudheen’s death, the family has lost the sole male member,” said a relative of the youth.
 
