PATIALA: Shortage of funds has blocked the project of the   municipal corporation ( ) to cover the 2.5-km   with concrete. 

 The former SAD-BJP government had asked the corporation to raise funds for the project under which the drain was supposed to be cleaned and beautified. The proposal was made in 2007. 
 
 The MC was also supposed to construct the side-lining of the drain running from Mohindra College to   and passing the office of the municipal corporation (MC) from the rear.
 
  The MC had recently floated tenders for the project under which some drains of the city would not only be covered but a walking path constructed over them. Last year, the drainage department had spent around Rs 25 lakh over the cleaning of the drain, with residents complaining that de-silting had not taken place. In 2011, the then Congress MLA, Preneet Kaur, had raised the matter in the state assembly following which a committee was formed by the speaker of the house to look into the issue. The committee had then visited the drain and interacted with local residents and reported that de-silting had not been carried out for years. 
 
 The MC also used to discharge sewage into seasonal rivulets and the drain and also polluted the ground water, violating pollution norms and the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. 
 
  Residents of villages like Shermajra and others living near the Jacob Drain have for long complained of suffering from water-borne diseases. 
 
  MC mayor Amarinder Bajaj said, "The work has not started despite the proposal in 2007. Lack of funds has stalled a number of projects. However, the beautification of Jacob Drain and others will start soon." 
 
  Executive engineer (drainage) Devinder Singh said, "There are no funds with the department to start any work. Last year, we had got it cleaned by removing weeds and other obstructions and spent Rs 25 lakh. We have come up with a fresh proposal under which the drain will be cleaned while a cemented path laid over it." 
 
 
 By Bharat Khanna
 
 
