GHAZIABAD: Residents are unhappy with the state government for spending more than Rs 20 crore to lay an estimated 55-km network of   across the city that they can’t use. 

 In the absence of an enabling environment for people to cycle, the tracks have ended up narrowing roads, aggravating snarls and worsening parking woes, residents alleged. Some residents also said the tracks have turned into a hazard for both pedestrians and cyclists because bikers tend to use them to break lane rules and there is no policing. Others claimed it was merely a ‘PR stunt’ for the ruling Samajwadi Party to endorse its election symbol.
 
 The GDA, in response to an RTI query filed by Alok Kumar on December 21 last year mentioned that it had invested nearly Rs 23 crore for setting up cycling tracks spread across 55km.
 
 Several residents in Indirapuram, on their part, blamed the government for wasting crores of rupees of public money and failing to ensure proper implementation of the project. Referring to the narrowed roads around  , a housing society in Indirapuram, Sandeep Shukla, a resident, attributed the traffic woes in the area to the cycle tracks.
 
 Owing to lack of space and and recurrent traffic jams on the road, a lot of motorists use the cycle tracks which can prove to be dangerous for both cyclists and pedestrians, said Ashok Gupta, a resident of Shipra Sun City in Indirapuram.
 
 Kumar, founder of the  , said that with a constant increase in population, the city needed wider roads. “On the contrary, the government is narrowing the roads,” Kumar said.
 
 Highlighting the parking woes stemming from the cycle tracks, another resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “Earlier, people used to park their vehicles beside the road. After the cycle tracks were set up, people park their cars on the road, further narrowing it.”
 
 Cyclists said they were also unable to use the tracks owing to lack of enabling infrastructure and obstacles like electricity poles, trees, large stones which were not removed while setting up the tracks.
 
 Amit Upadhyay, founder of  , said cyclists like him were frustrated by encroachment issues. “We seldom use these tracks as they are always occupied by street vendors,” he said.
 
 However, in some areas like Kavinagar industrial area, cyclists asserted that the tracks have been laid properly and encourage the cycling habit among citizens.
 
 Yusuf Aziz, a resident of Indirapuram, said that the cycle track in Kavi Nagar ran along a green patch in the middle of the road. “The 200-metre-long patch in Kavinagar Industrial area is green with decorative plants and cycling there is a good experience," Aziz said.
 
 
