Of the several fort legacies from Goa’s colonial past, the   fort at   forms a part of the citadel triumvirate that straddles the mouths of the Mandovi and Zuari rivers. The fort, along with the ones at Aguada and Mormugao, once guarded Portuguese interests in the region.

 Today, this fort built sometime around the mid-17th century may not have much more than a ruined wall to show. Nevertheless, every stone of the dilapidated structure exudes a past magnificence.
 
 “The first line of defence of the Mandovi were the forts of Aguada and Cabo, situated on opposite hills and located on the mouth of the river. The Cabo fort served a dual purpose and defended the Mandovi on one side and the Zuari river on the other side along with the Mormugao fort, which was very powerful,” says historian Percival Noronha, 95.
 
 Positioned high above on the cape on the southern side of the mouth of the Mandovi river, the fort, now known as Cabo Raj Bhavan, offers a panoramic view of the Indian Ocean towards the west, the bay of the Mandovi and Fort Aguada to the north, and the Mormugao port to the south. 
 
 This uninterrupted view holds the clue to why the location was chosen for the fortress. Repeated threats from the Dutch and constantly changing equations with the British, made the Cabo one of the most essential defences for the Portuguese.
 
 “The site (Cabo Raj Bhavan), a viceregal seat since 1918, used to be a Portuguese fort, erected in the 17th century to guard the entrance to Goa harbour, whose cannons crossed fire with those of Aguada to the north and Mormugao to the south,” David Abram writes in his book ‘Goa’.
 
 Though there is some uncertainty over the precise date the citadel was constructed, it is understood that the idea of building it came up in 1540, during the tenure of then Portuguese governor, Dom Estevao da Gama. While it took long for the idea to materialise, a chapel was raised on the spot immediately.
 
 It has been reported that there was a proposal to locate a Franciscan priest in 1541 at the chapel located within the fort, thus indicating proof of its existence then. 
 
 In 1594, the chapel was extended to include a Franciscan convent, which, from the 1650s, served as temporary accommodation for the archbishop and, in 1773, it was used as a school of artillery.
 
 In what could be considered to be a game of thrones, when the British forces made their way to Goa, they occupied the Cabo fortress under an agreement with the Portuguese. The British took it over in 1798 and stayed in residence, apart from a brief break, until 1813. They built some more edifices around, which were razed in 1848 by the Portuguese.
 
 “These days, nothing remains of the old citadel (Cabo fortress), but you can still visit the small Our Lady of Cabo Church, founded by the Portuguese in 1541, while from the road beyond the National Institute of Oceanography you can see the ruins of the small military cemetery built by the British at the time of their brief occupation of the Cabo during the Napoleonic wars - a move intended to deter the French from invading Goa,” Abram writes.
 
 Later, in 1855, the count of Torres Novas and his successors used the estate as a summer residence for governor-generals. It was only after 1918 that it became a permanent dwelling for the governor-general, then known as Palacio do Cabo.
 
 Today, owing to security for the Goa governor, access to the fortress is limited to the general public only on select days, most importantly on August 15, when the feast of the chapel at the fortress is celebrated. Locals can attend mass at the chapel on the day. 
 
 FROM FORT TO PALACE
 
 1540
 
 Idea of building a fort came during governor Dom Estevao da Gama’s tenure
 
 There is no clarity on the date the fort was actually constructed
 
 1650s
 
 The Franciscan monastery in the fort served as the archbishop’s residence
 
 1773 
 
 Used as a school of artillery
 
 1798 to 1813 
 
 British took it over during the Napoleonic wars to deter the French from invading Goa
 
 1813
 
 Archbishop once 
 
 again took over the fort
 
 1855 onwards Governor-general’s summer residence
 
 1918 
 
 Palacio do Cabo became the governor-general’s permanent dwelling
 
 The 400-year-plus palace is among the finest residences of Indian governors and the oldest
 
 
