KANPUR: People should completely   to save their children from asthma. Also, carpets, doormats and mattress should be dusted outside the house so that dust particles are not inhaled by children, said doctors of   (IPA) on the occasion of   on May 2. 

 The doctors were addressing a continuing medical education (CME) programme at Ganesh Shankar Vidhyarthi Memorial (GSVM) medical college on the occasion.
 
 Dr Asish Srivastava, secretary, IPA said   has emerged as the most common cause of   in kids. In many homes people regularly smoke in the presence of their children. Due to continuous exposure of smoke, several children fall prey to asthma, said the experts.
 
 Head of the Paediatrics department of GSVM medical college, Dr Yashwant Rao said around 30 crore people in the world are suffering from asthma and the number of patients in India is approximately three crore. In this total figure there are around 10 to 15 percent children, he added.
 
 Talking about high level of air pollution in the city due to industries, Dr Rao said people should take extra precautions where there is a change in weather. "Wear a mask while moving out, avoid sitting with people who smoke, eat healthy food and do regular exercise," he suggested.
 
 Talking about the other causes of asthma and precautions, Dr Sunil Agarwal of IPA said one should take care of pets like dogs and cats as they have mites on their body which cause allergy and many a times lead to asthma, he added.
 
 The best way to help against asthma is to take precautions. There are many children who are genetically prone to asthma. If a child is regularly getting cold, cough and develops breathing disorder, it is the first alarming sign of asthma. Parents should consult a doctor immediately in such a case, said Dr Agarwal. Also a clean environment should be given to them so that problem does not aggravates, he added.
 
 He even laid emphasis on breastfeeding of newborns as it boosts the immunity of children and protect them against many medical problems including asthma.
 
 
