KOCHI: The   is officially in retreat but Sunday was an unusually wet day in Kerala, with most parts of the state receiving heavy and incessant rain since morning. Meteorological authorities confirmed that the average rain fall on Sunday was 100mm, a ten-fold increase from the norm during this time of the year. "Mannarcaud recorded the highest rainfall of 220mm," MET centre director S Sudevan said.   State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), which coordinated the response to the unusual weather, has initiated standard operating procedures (SOP) for level two (L2) disaster preparedness across the state. "As part of L2 disaster preparedness, taluk level control rooms will function round the clock in addition to the district level control room which is integrated with the state level control room," SEOC head scientist Sekhar Kuriakose told TOI.
A low pressure formation in the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra and Kerala and cyclonic circulation in   off Odisha were identified as the reason for the heavy rain in the state. The KSDMA warned that, "Heavy rainfall (7-11cm in 24 hrs) is most likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala till Tuesday. Please note that the South West Monsoon has gained strength ... it is advised that the preparedness measures as prescribed in the Monsoon Contingency Plan 2017 may be followed meticulously". Only one death was re ported on Sunday ­ in   ­ but ceaseless showers brought life to standstill across Kerala. Several roads and streets in all major cities and towns were waterlogged, while power supply was disrupted.Landslips were reported from   in Kottayam district and Nadukani Ghat in Malappuram district. The road to Munnar was closed at Neriyamangalam as per direction of Idukki district collector. Shutters of Sholayar Dam were opened after four years, while authorities said that shutters of Karappuzha and Banasura Sagar dams in   would be opened if heavy inflow into the reservoir continues.
 
 The incessant downpour flooded low-lying Kuttanad, where three houses were partially damaged and many trees uprooted. In Ernakulam district, which recorded 58 mm early on Sunday, water logging was widespread especially in Kochi, with the roads in Infopark in Kakkanad resembling a river. Thrissur district received the second highest rainfall since June, with Kerala Agriculture University's meteorological station recording it at 118.1 mm on Sunday. The state capital too witnessed heavy showers triggering tree falls and minor accidents in various parts of the district.The water level touched the highest so far this year in Neyyar dam -84.5 metres -forcing authorities to open the shutters.The district collector issued an alert to residents living along Karamana river.
 
 According to IMD, Kozhikode recorded 31.8 mm rain from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm on Monday. The worst hit by water logging was Mavoor Road in the heart of Kozhikode city. Most parts of Kannur and Kasaragod districts too witnessed heavy rain from Sunday morning onwards.
 
