BHOPAL:   veteran  , who has in the recent past left no chance to embarrass the ruling party, has once again raised a matter close to the saffron party - cow protection. This time the former chief minister shot a missive to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on paltry sum released for cow shelters and cow protection initiatives.

 His letter raises many questions on the BJP's promises for cow protection.
 
 “I raised some queries on subsidy given to cow shelters, mostly private-owned, and was taken aback to know that the amount was a meagre Rs 1.61 to Rs 2 per day.
 
 State animal husbandry minister Anter Singh Arya told that this year too, the government had sanctioned an annual subsidy of Rs 679, which comes out to be Rs 1.86 per day and is insufficient. “I asked the minister to increase the subsidy but, he said that it was decided by the committee headed by chief minister  ,” Gaur told TOI.
 
 To draw the attention of chief minister Chouhan on the issue, Gaur wrote a letter in the recently held state working committee meeting about the pitiable condition of cow shelters. When he was told that it was Central government that refused to allot funds for cow protection, Gaur decided to write to Prime Minister Modi.
 
 “I tried to draw Prime Minister's attention towards this sensitive issue. I requested that cow shelters and non-government organisations working in the field be given adequate funds to cater for the purpose with dedication'', said Gaur.
 
 He said organisations involved in dairy farming and cow protection are managing funds on their own and paying them a subsidy of Rs 1.61 to Rs 2 per day is unjustified. The state government has no clear policy on dairy farming and cow protecting while, the subsidy also varies in different districts, he added. 
 
 As per the official data released in the state assembly, the government has so far given annual subsidy of Rs 635 (Rs 1.73 per day) in financial year 2014-15, Rs 591 (Rs 1.61 per day) in 2015-16, Rs 577 (Rs 1.58 per day) in 2016-17 and Rs 679 (Rs 1.86 per day) in 2017-18 fiscal.
 
 This shows how the BJP government differ on its promises and fulfilling them. The government welfare schemes for farmers and implementation of pro-farmer programmes have been severely affected with the paucity of funds, said officials in the secretariat.
 
 However, Gaur said he was waiting for PM's response on the issue and was hopeful that governments both in the state and at the Centre would take up the issue as early as possible.
 
 Babulal Gaur, who had been shunted out from Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on the 75-year age bar rule, has been vociferous against his party for its failure in fulfilling promises made during 2013 assembly elections. Gaur believes that his raising important public issues, is a part of his duty towards public who has elected him to the assembly.
 
 
