NAGPUR: Impressed by their work in Karanja (Ghadge), the state government has handed over the abandoned orange processing unit at Mayawadi in Morshi to Maha Orange, a growers’ association.   revolutionized the orange marketing by selling the fruit after grading grading, wax coating and packaging at the Karanja (Ghadge) last year, as well as exported it to Sri Lanka.

 The plant was relaunched on Monday by Chairman of the local municipal council Sheela Rode and her grandson. MO director Shridhar Thakre told TOI the state government had announced formal transfer of the plant/unit to MO during the winter session of legislature in Nagpur. “The actual paper work got completed only a few days back. Hence, we started the project today with beginning of next orange crop that would yield fruits till April. We also launched export to Bangladesh and first consignment of 18 tonnes was released today from Karanja mandi (farmers market). The biggest support for this venture as well as motivation has come from the union transport minister   and state agriculture minister Bhausaheb Phundkar,” Thakre said.
 
 Manoj Jawanjal, another MO director and an organic orange grower from Katol, said the basic purpose of relaunching and running these units was to generate more profits for farmers and reach better quality fruit to consumers at a cost less than going through middlemen. Mayawadi unit was established about 25 years back during   government in the state but was launched formally by BJP-Sena government that followed. The plant actually never took off. “Now both these plants are being run successfully by MO. This year we plan to export 500 tonnes to Bangladesh and sell 550 tonnes in domestic market. The unit should not be confused with a processing (juice or other product making unit),” said Jawanjal.
 
 MO officials said the two units at Mayawadi and Karanja would not be just grading, waxing and packaging units. They would also have a soil testing lab, a leaf analysis lab (used for identifying various deficiencies in the plant). The aim was to create a Citrus Estate like Punjab where farmers not just grow orange but also are involved in every step from cultivation to processing and selling.
 
 “Farmers would be given higher price than market rate. We would give at least Rs42,000 per tonne. We have tied up with All Fresh from Delhi and Juber Fruit Company. Our Bangladesh consignment was sent without any mediators,” said Thakre.
 
 Morshi district deputy registrar of cooperatives Ajay Kadu, Prashant Kukde, farmer Arun Pete, Gajanan Badbudhe and Ajit Joshi were also present.
 
