BHUBANESWAR: The annual state budget for 2017-18 to be presented by   Pradip Kumar Amat on February 27 would touch a new high as the total amount would touch Rs 1 lakh crore against Rs 94,000 crore in 2016-17. 

 Though the details of the budget are kept under wraps, social sectors like rural development, agriculture, irrigation, health, education and rural electrification would get substantial allocation in the state budget, official sources said.
 
 Instead of making budgetary provision for new schemes, the focus will be on completing the ongoing infrastructure projects with adequate funding, said an official privy to the development. 
 
 In health sector, government would earmark fund for construction of five ongoing medical colleges at Balasore, Baripada, Puri, Koraput and Balangir. 
 
 Besides, fund would also be allocated for boosting infrastructure of the three existing medical colleges in Cuttack, Berhampur and Burla. 
 
 As the state government claimed of receiving   assurance of Rs 3.64 lakh crore after successfully organizing three industrial summits in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Bhubaneswar, the state government is going to make provisions for providing subsidies to the industrial houses as promised in the industrial policy resolution, 2015.
 
 With the state government going to implement the recommendations of the 7th pay commission, there would special allocation for the purpose. 
 
 There would be an additional financial burden of Rs 5,000 crore on the exchequer for implementation of the pay panel, said an officer.
 
 The revised pay structure will be implemented retrospectively with effect from January 1, 2016. Nearly seven lakh employees and pensioners would benefit due to the move. 
 
 The state government expects to receive over Rs 31,000 crore for 2017-18 as central grant according to the recommendations of the finance commission. 
 
 To get a clear idea about allocation for Odisha under different central schemes, secretaries of different departments have been asked to be in touch with their line ministries so that provisions would be made accordingly.
 
 As the demonetization drive has impacted revenue generation severely, the state government would go for more open market borrowing to fund the ongoing social and infrastructure projects. 
 
 
