NEW DELHI: A man accused of rape and his wife accused of abetting the crime were   after the victim supposedly died in the Nepal earthquake a year ago. 

 The trial court relied on the statement of the woman’s husband and pointed out the importance of the victim’s testimony. “The summons to the prosecutrix were sent a number of times but she did not appear in the witness box at any time....
 
 In the absence of the testimony of the prosecutrix, many questions remained unanswered. She was the only witness to the incident. Other witnesses came in motion at her instance after the incident,” observed special fast-track court judge Sanjiv Jain.
 
 The husband of the victim, who had in August 2014 told the police that her neighbour had raped her with his wife’s help, informed the court that the victim was from Nepal. He said that she had gone to Nepal a year ago to see her parents. That is when the earthquake took place and her house was destroyed. The husband said when he went there to look for her, someone told him that his wife and her family members had died in the  .
 
 The court also pointed out that the accused couple were not medically examined. In the absence of the medical examination, the court did not see any evidence that showed that the nail marks on the accused man’s body were because of the incident. “Further, nothing incriminating came in the FSL report,” the court said.
 
 The case also revealed a previous history of litigations between the parties. It was found that the accused woman in the present case had in the past filed a rape case against the victim’s husband. “Looking into the history of litigations between the parties and material contradictions in the statements, the case against the accused persons cannot be stated to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. I am of the view that the accused persons deserve the benefit,” the court ruled while acquitting both the accused.
 
 While the accused man was chargesheeted for rape and housebreak, his wife was tried for abetment and housebreak. Both of them were also booked for the offence of having a common intention, along with other charges.
 
 
