KOCHI: A drill to inspect the safety arrangement at   stadium, which is the venue of   U-17 World Cup matches, was conducted on Tuesday . The drill led by district disaster management authority checked the compatibility of arrangements to carry out rescue operations in case of accidents like fire or an explosion.

 According to the officials who led the operations, the arrangements in the stadium have been proved to be compatible. The team could carry out “rescue operations“ and provide “medical aid'' to those injured without fail, the officials said.
 
 Audience could be evacuated from the stadium and taken to the common assembly point within five minutes of occurrence of the accident. Those required medical aid could provide the same within time limit. During the drill, the technique of evacuating persons using ropes, was also displayed. The functions of medical team and ambulance have been tested during the drill, the officials informed. Medical emergency of the inured are being detected ion the basis of ribbons with different colours.
 
 District disaster management aut hority has prepared a detailed and effective crisis management plan for the stadium which host matches of international teams.
 
 A total of 320 volunteers have been trained to carry out rescue operations.All of them attended the drill on Tues day . Specially trained 25 police officials will supervise the volunteers. The stewards have been imparted training on first-aid, fire training and training on providing medical aid. A total of 400 persons including members of national disaster response force, medical team, police and fire and rescue services officials attended the drill.
 
 Another drill will be organized on October 3 and 4. A team including district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla, city police commissioner M P  , deputy police commissioner  , GDA officials and Organising committee members of the event evaluated the arrangements at the stadium.
 
 The stadium will host eight matches as part of the World Cup. The stadium is fully ready with the first two matches scheduled to take place on October 7. All the tickets for these two matches have been sold out.
 
 In the first match in Kochi, Brazil will take on Spain.
 
