The best things in life, they say, are free. For organisers of an event as enormous as the   U-17 World Cup, the concept of volunteerism is priceless.
 
  Set to work without wages, this legion forms a vital interface between the action on the pitch and its audience, both at the stadia and in living rooms all over the world.
  
  Fifa’s volunteer functions for the 24- nation tournament cover every facet of organisation — venues, competition, marketing, media, doping control, transport, logistics, airport, security, accreditation and information technology, overlays, administration and their own volunteer management.
  
  Volunteerism, in essence, is a symbiotic relationship saving organisers huge labour costs. More than 29,000 above 18 years of age, applied for positions irrespective of gender, ethnic background and physical ability with 1,500 selected after three rounds of interviews.
  
  In return, they will avail of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to rub shoulders with players, officials and administrators at a Fifa event, imbibing work experience and skills transferable to any walk of life. Not to mention friendships and memories that could well last a lifetime.
  
  Among those making the grade is Siddun Khwaja whose talents and energies gained him the role of stadium announcer. The 25-year-old engineering graduate performed with aplomb at the AFC U-16 Cup and the Brics Cup in Goa last year, bringing him an offer for the Indian Super League which he declined because of college examinations.
  
  “The Fifa U-17 World Cup will be an even bigger operation and it will be a striking entry on my CV,” Khwaja said. “Like in the events last year, I will be called upon to co-ordinate with scores of people, obtain lists of players and officials and most importantly get the pronunciation of names correct,” Khwaja said.
  
  For 65-year-old Carlton Gomes, it’s a dream come true after nursing disappointment lasting decades albeit in a different sport and context. Ignored by the selectors for the 1982 World Cup hockey in Mumbai, the former goalkeeper’s joy knew no bounds when he received a favourable call from the organisers.
  
  Age certainly is no bar for Goa’s Lucas Cardoso. At 72, the Candolim resident is the oldest volunteer at the event and will serve in the tournament operations section where he is likely to work with staff more than two generations apart.
  
  Like the ecstatic Bonkar twins from Ponda — Rohan and Rahul — who will join 248 other workers at the Nehru Stadium in  , ready to render service with a smile.
  
  The 18 year olds made the grade in the competitions management section and Rohan, for one, will bring to the fore experience garnered at the AFC Cup U-16 tournament last year. From helping teams carry their kit around to serving players drinks, he hopes to do the same on a grander stage. “The certificate I will get after the event will be one to treasure,” said the engineering student, now undergoing training for the event.
  
  And there are some whose patience and humanness will go a long way. Manoj Karmakar, who teaches sports for the specially abled, could be counted upon to lend a sense of calm in high-pressure situations. An invaluable lesson to those around him as this, Fifa’s 25th team, aims for a podium finish even after the winning captain holds the trophy aloft on October 28.
