GURUGRAM: After an eight-year legal battle, a 45-year-old Indian-origin British citizen and his family members have been acquitted of charges of cruel treatment to his now-estranged wife by a Gurgaon court. The charges were slapped by police in 2009, following the woman’s complaint of   against the man, Gurusharan Lal Awasthi, and his family members after he found out that her parents had lied about her academic qualifications.

 The court ruled in favour of Awasthi and his family members, saying the woman —  , a resident of Gurgaon — resiled from her statements many a time and the prosecution also failed to prove its case against the accused. And that Gurusharan produced enough evidence to support his claims that he was cheated on account of his wife’s educational qualifications.
 
 “In the light of arguments made and in totality of circumstances, prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt, therefore accused Gurusharan Lal Awasthi, his brother   and mother Shiv Dulari are hereby acquitted of the charges framed against them,” judicial magistrate   said in her order on March 29, 2017.
 
 It was in 2008 when Gurusharan flew down from London and married Shalini in India. At the time, he was told his wife was a graduate in arts from Networked University, Bhilai, Chhattisgarh. However, when he asked for a copy of her educational degree for visa processing, he got no response from her family. Moreover, he found out there is no such university after going through the   (UGC) website.
 
 “I was okay with her not being a graduate, but they were just not ready to reveal the truth. My family and I also got threats from a lawyer that we would all be all put behind bars on charges of dowry harassment,” Gurusharan told TOI on Friday.
 
 Realising she has been exposed, Gurusharan said, Shalini filed a complaint against him and his parents at Sector 56 police station. After two further complaints, an FIR was registered in 2009 against him under sections 498A (husband or a family member/relative subjecting woman to cruelty), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.
 
 In her complaints, Shalini accused Awasthi and his family members of harassing her, beating her up and demanding dowry worth Rs 5 lakh as well as a house in Gurgaon. 
 
 The trial began in 2009 and in 2014, when Gurusharan came to India, he was arrested and his passport was seized. He underwent a seven-day police custody and spent 31 days in Bhondsi jail as an undertrial, before getting bail. Between 2014 and 2016, he shuttled between London and Gurgaon for the trial.
 
 In 2016, he pleaded for a speedy trial. “I literally wept in front of the district and sessions judge   that either they announce the verdict or put me behind bars as eight years of trial had cost me enough emotionally and economically,” Gurusharan said. “Finally, I got justice last month,” he added.
 
 
