HYDERABAD: The healthcare market in the city is growing at an unprecedented rate with the entry of almost all major  . Also, the growing population of insured professionals in IT hub and the city is fast transforming into a lucrative market for healthcare startups. 

 "The boom in the number of large, mid-sized, speciality as well as super speciality hospitals in Hyderabad has spelled a clear advantage for city-based startups working in this space. Even smaller clinics and diagnostic centres are looking to avail the services being offered by startups," said Anu Acharya, founder and CEO of MapMyGenome, a city-based personal genomics and biotechnology startup that offers   services. It has tied up with around five large city hospitals, including Care and Maxcure Hospitals, and many standalone clinics.
 
 "The rise in the number of hospitals will only continue to spur the growth of startups in this space. It is hospitals and doctors who refer patients to us. While a few are sent to undergo genetic testing for a particular reason, a few patients are sent for genetic counselling. Individual consumers too sometimes come to us to better understand their genetic predisposition in order to lead healthier lives," said Acharya. 
 
 Harish Manian, chief operating officer of Continental Hospitals in the Financial District, said that hospitals of all sizes and specialities are seen availing the services of smaller startup companies, be it simple IT-enabled services for hospital management or at-home patient care.
 
 "Hospitals are increasingly using the services of startups to consolidate their businesses in a more efficient manner. From hospital management to intermediary care, and patient tracking and engagement, business models for startups in the healthcare space are aplenty and growing in number everyday," said Manian, who added that   has tied up with around 10 such startups.
 
 CallHealth, a city-based medical services startup that provides integrated at-home healthcare services to patients, has raised about $19.06 million investment so far. "We bring healthcare to patients' homes. From virtual consultations to physiotherapy and diagnosis, we work with labs, radiology clinics and speciality hospitals to provide the best of preventive healthcare at home," said Hari.
 
 CallHealth has tie-ups with 67 hospitals, including Continental Hospitals, Rainbow Hospitals and The Birthplace.
 
 
