COIMBATORE: The   is considering a proposal to allow farmers to manufacture ‘neera’, a   derived from coconut trees, said chief minister   here on Saturday. He said neera and allied products could bring a   to  .

 For more than a decade,   from the western parts of the state have been demanding   to tap toddy from coconut trees. A group of coconut farmers from Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode has demanded that the government allow them to manufacture neera. AIADMK ministers, MPs and MLAs also pressed the demands and finally the government started to consider the demands.
 
 “The AIADMK government is always with the farmers,” he said.
 
 Palaniswami, who inaugurated several government buildings and launched schemes for Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Nilgiris district through videoconferencing at the CODISSIA here, alleged the DMK’s only focus is to capture power in the state. The opposition party is trying to create an impression that the state cannot function without it, he said and added that the AIADMK is like a river and DMK cannot block it at any point.
 
 Addressing party workers and officials, Palaniswami said he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently and requested the Union government to approval the Athikadavu-Avinashi project. The state government has sanctioned Rs 250 crore for the project, which will help recharge ground water in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts. A total of 31 tanks belonging to the public works department, 40 tanks belonging to panchayat unions and 538 ponds in the three districts will benefit.
 
 “The AIADMK government has allotted Rs 162 crore to construct a flyover on Dr Nanjappa Road to reduce traffic congestion. Over 90% of the construction work from Dr Nanjappa Road to 100 Feet Road junction was completed and the flyover will be opened in April. The construction work on another flyover from Chinnasamy Road to 100 Feet Road will be over in December 2017,” said Palaniswami.
 
 He said the state government planned to construct a flyover from Upplipalayam-Chinniyampalayam on Avinashi Road and Rs 340. 53 crore will be allotted for it. A western ring road will be built in Coimbatore and the government will allot Rs 320 crore for the project.
 
 Municipal administration minister SP Velusmani, assembly speaker P Dhanabal, deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman, minister for school education K A Sengottaiyan, ministers, MPs and MLAs and chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan and other top officials participated in the function.
 
