NAGPUR: A   titled ‘Komsam’, organized at Dharampeth on Sunday, saw the participation of several people. Conducted by   Samir Gangakhedkar, the quiz saw a set of 42 questions with two written rounds with questions from diverse fields of interest. 

 A little bit of toughness made the participants more engrossed in the quiz who fought it out with the questions and it also lessened the number of pounces. Some interesting questions required the participants to refresh the missing links in their grey matters.
 
 What made the entire quiz contest interesting was that each question had a story behind it which Gangakhedkar explained, after their answers were revealed.
 
 The Sartaj   was about the Jog family who have contributed to more than 35,000 films. The question that was put across was how they have contributed to the cinematic world and it went unanswered. Quizmaster Gangakhedkar then revealed that the Jogs manufacture the Migration Claps which are used in launching films, videos and albums. 
 
 The audience was amazed and gave a thundering applause to the answer. Similarly, a schoolboy, Advik gave an answer to a question of which nobody else was aware of, which made Gangakhedkar exclaim that this is the beauty of quizzing. Age is no barrier or benchmark for knowledge and that is what NQC stands for, he added. 
 
 Teams A, C and E were neck to neck till the last question which was a question on theme, Blossoms in which Team C made a remarkable score of 50 points. A special mention must be made of the school kids — Spandan and Aadvik for answering some brilliant questions for their teams which nobody else in the room could get. Starting from this quiz,   has introduced a ‘Quiz Master Rating System’ where every participant gets to assign a number from 1 to 10 to the quizmaster’s proceedings in the entire quiz. A secret ballot system with points and feedback was taken in the end. . All the participants and the audience thoroughly enjoyed the event.
 
 The prize distribution ceremony took place at the hands of Mrs Nath and the final standings were as follows:
 
 Winners: Team C — Vandana Chitnavis, Ashwin S, Devevrata Dharkar, Manoj Chopkar, Dhruv Aggarwal, Amol Krishnani, Aman Mishra with a total of 140 points. 
 
 1st Runners-up: Team E — Paddy, Ripu Uberoi, Sukhada C, Rabiya Shabbir, Jose Benny, Spandan with a total of 105 points. 
 
 2nd Runners-up: Team A — Tanmay C, Mrinmay Meshram, Vikrant S, Akhil B, Krishna Kela — 100 points. 
 
 3rd Runners-up: Team D — Anup Manchalwar, Shiju Smauel, Pankaj Yadav, Milind Patil, Dhruv Chandak — 90 points and Team B - Aniruddha Morarka, Arpit Aggarwal, Vrushabh Gudade, Kaushik Biswas, Aadvik Bhatia, Nayan Saraogi — 90 points. 
 
