NAVI MUMBAI: The   has affected several villagers and primates in the   since early this year, killing seven farmers and 80 langur monkeys since January.

 All these farmers lived either inside the forest or its periphery in the Banda region, in southern Maharashtra, around 350 km from Mumbai. They used to collect cashew nuts from forest for their livelihood.
 
 Hemant Chajad, a former member of the State Forest Land Committee, said: “This is the second time in two years that monkey fever has struck two districts in Maharashtra.Last year, the viral disease had killed seven humans and several monkeys in the neighbouring Sindhudurg district. Forest officials must show high alertness to spot this illness at the earliest and take remedial measures.'' Sawantwadi assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Subhash Puranik said: “The situation is now under control and medical teams are distributing vaccines and spreading awareness among the villagers.“ Puranik added that those showing symptoms of monkey fever (Kyasanur Forest Disease) are being immediately admitted to the primary health centre (PHC) at Banda.
 
 State medical officer at the Banda PHC, Dr Jagdish Patil, told TOI: “The residents of Satmat Wadi village have been af fected by monkey fever since mid-January. The population of the locality is 535, of which 34 people have tested positive. Four persons from the locality have succumbed and three others from nearby areas." Dr Patil said monkey fever basically spreads from infected parasitic ticks which first target black-faced monkeys in the forests. The ticks suck the blood of the host monkey and pass on the viral infection to it. Once the host monkey starts suffering from high fever and dehydration, the ticks multiply by sucking up the blood nutrients and later abandon the ill monkey and wait near water bodies to latch on to other hosts, which include human beings. “The farmers normally venture into the forest between January and May to collect cashew nuts and later sell them in the local markets. These infected ticks climb up their bare legs and thereby infect humans,'' said Dr Patil.
 
