HYDERABAD: There was perhaps not a single earthquake that was not left unrecorded by Osmania   during the Nizam's Hyderabad and the first two decades after Independence. Long before the birth of the prestigious   (NGRI) in Hyderabad in 1961,   recorded the seismological data for Hyderabad state and the British government. The university's   supplied data to Oxford and Harvard too. The OU data formed part of the international seismological summary for the benefit of humanity at large. The OU did not leave any quake - minor or major without reading its mind. Moving back in time to1925, the university team recorded as many as 84 tremors over a period of 365 days. Apart from tremors, the OU researchers recorded several microselsms - continuous motion in the earth that is not related to an earthquake. Microselsms last for a second to nine seconds and are caused by several non-earthquake factors. Osmania University had linked the microselsms recorded in Hyderabad to the distrubances caused by the monsoon season. The phenomenon was prominent in the seismographs of the university for full 26 days during the monsoon that year.

 The university team was capable of recording the direction of the waves triggered by earthquake not only from east to west, but also from north to south. It conducted considerable research on the seismological data obtained from the Milne-Shaw horizontal pendulum installed in the observatory. There were only four seismological centres in the British India when the Nizamia Observatory launched its earthquake research in early 1920s.
 
 “The records to end of September 1925 have been studied and the readings of the principal phases have been forwarded to Oxford for incorporation in the International Seismological Summary,“ Osmania University registrar said in his official report for the year 1925-26 submitted to the education department of the Nizam government in 1927. It also shared with international bodies the information on air temperature, humidity, rainfall, and wind velocity.
 
