NEW DELHI: The next time you have an argument with a fellow driver on the road, make sure to amicably settle it. A   incident took a nasty turn when a man’s new Fortuner SUV was set afire by two men a couple of hours after they had had an argument with him.

 The incident took place in west Delhi’s   early on Tuesday. The victim, Vineet Makol (25), was returning home to be in time for dinner with his family when two men overtook his car in their Chevrolet Cruze. He kept driving towards his house and soon the men came next to his SUV and hurled abuses at him. They said he was driving slowly and blocking the road.
 
 The men then signalled him to stop his vehicle near Bindra Park and had a verbal fight with him. “They started arguing with me as to why I was driving slowly. As traffic was queuing up behind us and people were honking continuously, I preferred to leave the argument and head home. I had no clue that the men were following me,” Makol said.
 
 The accused followed Makol to his house to see where he parked his vehicle and then left.   footage shows that two hours later, the men slowly drove towards the victim’s house and parked the Cruze in a corner.
 
 The footage shows two men stepping out of the car, one dressed in black and the other in white, their faces covered with mufflers. The man in white rushes towards the Fortuner and pours petrol on one side. The man in black then lights a matchstick and sets the SUV on fire. The duo then runtowards their car and speed away.
 
 “My wife and I were awake as our newborn was not asleep yet. Our room is next to the main gate of the house. My wife noticed the flames and alerted me. We first thought there was a short circuit in the wiring outside the house, but when we rushed outside we saw that our SUV was on fire,” said Makol.
 
 Makol immediately called the PCR and fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The blaze was doused within 20 minutes after the fire tenders reached the house, but most of the damage had already been done by then. “There were over 20 cars standing near our house, but they were saved due to timely action,” he added.
 
 “The CCTV footage installed at the victim’s house gave us the clues and we registered a case. One of the accused men, Saurabh (25), was arrested from his house. He is a resident of Subhash Nagar,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
