Patna: A day after making a rare move to examine an evidence in the courtroom even after poring over a forensic report on it, the Patna high court on Wednesday granted bail to Lebanese nation Fadi Fadel, who had been languishing in the state’s Sitamarhi jail for over a year now.

 Fadel of Zahle in   was working as a rehab volunteer in Nepal after the Himalayan country was devastated by an earthquake in mid-2015. He crossed the Indo-Nepal border and was arrested by the Sitamarhi police on June 7, 2016 as he allegedly did not carry valid documents to move inside the Indian territory.
 
 According to defence counsel Shama Sinha, a single bench of Justice Sanjay Priya granted bail to Fadel after the Lebanese embassy in New Delhi took the responsibility of arranging the documents to make his stay in India legal. 
 
 Fadel will not be allowed to go outside India till the hearing on his deportation concludes in the high court, the counsel told TOI.
 
 Earlier, the court on Tuesday examined the evidence in the form of the clone of a 500-GB hard drive, recovered from the possession of the 36-year-old foreigner at the time of his arrest. 
 
 Courts usually rely on the FSL reports on evidence and do not examine the evidence. The FSL report in this case talked about the presence of photographs of explosives, arms and ammunition on the hard drive. 
 
 However, the defence counsel pleaded before the court that the visuals were part of popular gameplay ‘Counter Strike 1.1’. 
 
 According to Sinha, the videogame contained photographs of bomb-diffusing kit and weapons as well as the tag of their manufacturing countries. The game’s manual was also on the hard drive apart from a copy of Fadel’s passport and other documents, Sinha said.
 
 The advocate’s plea prompted the bench of Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice S Kumar to examine the evidence in the courtroom. The court had on July 12 this year gathered information about the videogame through the internet in response to the plea made by the defence counsel. 
 
 Later, the court rapped the FSL, asking it why its report did not make a mention about the videogame. The court also asked the state government and the FSL to explain the delay in the forensic test ordered by the Sitamarhi court last year. 
 
 Meawhile, the case’s investigating officer, SI Vijay Kumar, has been suspended for making an international call to Fadel’s brother in Lebanon to pressurise him to reach India. 
 
 Sinha said the Lebanese government informed the Indian embassy in Beirut about the call. It surfaced in the departmental investigation that the SI had not informed his seniors about his move to contact Fadel’s family. Nor did he mention anything about it in the case diary or station diary.
 
 
