GURUGRAM: As controversy rages over the true ownership of 464 acres of prime land in Gwalpahari, Gurgaon's BJP MLA   on Thursday questioned his party's and the CM's silence on the issue. 

 He also alleged chief minister  's name was being "misused" by certain officials to shield themselves. "The Gwalpahari case is a serious one and involves senior bureaucrats. It is surprising that the chief minister has not spoken about this case so far, he said. 
 
 The MLA referred to the TOI report published on February 9 on a probe in 2014 indicting five senior officials to add, "The media has highlighted reports in which some officials have been indicted and a probe has been recommended against them, yet the state government does not seem to be doing anything in this regard, which is both surprising and strange."
 
 Asking Khattar to set an example by taking action, Aggarwal said, "Since Khattar heads the government, it is all the more important that he speak about this case so that people know the intent of the government and the fact that this government is against corruption gets underlined. The CM should also take strict action against all those officials who are involved in this case," he said.
 
 TOI reported on February 9 that   (revenue)   had indicted five officials involved in the Gwalpahari land mutations. However, the government has neither taken action against these officials nor has it challenged his order in the high court. All five officials now occupy senior positions in the Haryana bureaucracy.
 
 A senior government official, who did not wish to be named, said, "The government is unlikely to challenge the order as this step is likely to boomerang and in all probability help the private owners in the longer run. "
 
 The controversy revolves around the 464 acres which, in official records, are referred to as Mutation No. 610. On July 2, 2012, a new mutation was done to recognise the MCG's ownership over a significant portion of the land. This new mutation is referred to as 3110. In his order, Malik had observed that "mutation records appear to have been manipulated, fabricated, forged and ante-dated", and the "entire process stinks of connivance and conspiracy, perhaps up to the levels who are expected to be the guardians and watchdogs of the entire process". The MCG has, meanwhile, issued notices to all private owners of the disputed land in Gwalpahari, saying they have illegally occupied government land.
 
