Year: 2007. It was pitch dark, but he was rather sure about the way to his home. After all, he had taken the same road many times and knew exactly where and how to cross that footbridge. Sadly, he was mistaken and fell into the small waterbody below. He tried to get up, like how he used to pick himself up when he was a kid, but he couldn’t.

 Cable TV operator M B Pramod from Kottayam had many dreams about his life, just like any other 26-year-old would have nurtured at that age. Marriage, better business, a better home and so on…but that tragic fall left him paralysed below the waist and put paid to all such plans. After moving from hospital to hospital, he returned home in a wheelchair. 
 
 Fast forward to 2017. Pramod is dreaming once again and sharing them with a girl called Meharunnissa, whom he had first met over Facebook. Last month, they got married legally and the couple is starting life in their ‘little nest’ in Kottayam. 
  
  
 With a coy smile, the 32-year-old B.Ed graduate from Guruvayoor says, “I want to be his legs and take him wherever he wants to go (ettanu nadakkanulla kalukalayi enikku jeevikkanam).” Pramod counters passionately, “I wish to be her wings and support her to realise all her dreams.”
 
 It wasn’t easy for Meharunnissa, who hails from an orthodox Muslim family from the outskirts of Thrissur, to become the wife of Pramod, a paraplegic and what was more important to some, a Dalit. “From peer pressure to mental conflicts to family’s emotional blackmailing, I had to cross many obstacles. We have been talking for the past two years and we had a transparent relationship. Ettan had told me about his disability and also about the situation at home,” she says. 
 
 Soon after Pramod’s accident, his parents, Mangattukunnel Balakrishnan and Saraswati were diagnosed with cancer. His father, who was a BSNL employee, passed away in 2013 and the family was surviving on a meagre pension. “We were good friends and while talking to him, I always felt that his family needs someone to support them and ettan can become better through physiotherapy. I felt that more than a wife, he needed a companion.” 
 
  
  
 
 Their friendship grew stronger when Meharunnissa came to Kochi for her B.Ed. “We used to speak over the phone and one day, when the course was getting over, he invited me to his life. I had no clue what to say. He told me to take my time.”
 
 She slept over it for many days and even discussed it with her friends. “They were all dead against it. 
 
 
 Some made nasty comments and while listening to their opinions, I realised that it is my life and it should be solely my decision.”
 
 Meharunnissa finally took the decision and left her home on May 11 telling her sister, “I know a person and I like him.” The family had no clue that the daughter, who stepped out of the gate purpotedly to collect her B.Ed certificate in Kochi, would never return. “I didn’t disclose it as I was sure that there will be a lot of objections and discussions over my decision and it may torpedo my plan.”
 
 Their marriage ceremony on May 12 at Pramod’s home was a small affair. Then started the hubbub. Religious outfits and Meharunnissa’s family members barged into Pramod’s home to rescue her. “They thought I was trapped. However, my family members understood there is no point in trying to take me back. But organisations from my community had a big issue with me getting married to a paraplegic, that too from a different religion. They gave me hour-long lectures on heaven and hell and about the repurcussions my decision will invite. Interestingly, I always had an impression about them as a progressive organisation as I had heard them earlier lecturing about the need to support the physically disabled,” she says. 
 
  
  
 
 She stood her ground. “The entire episode of ‘trying to make me understand’ was based on religion and caste. I told them that my decision was well thought out and that I wished to live life according to my wish. And that, more than religion, society needs humanism,” she says. 
 Pramod was all but a silent spectator as this drama played out. “I was upset but I knew that it is a testing time for us and it will only make our bond stronger. What disappointed me the most was that the hullaballoo was in the name of religion. Neither my physical condition nor my financial status were of much consequence to them,” Pramod says. 
 
 According to Meharunnissa, Pramod is a highly self-reliant. “He does everything by himself and needs support only when he goes out. For that, he has many good friends. I think physically sound people should fill the lives of the disabled ones with joy.” Pramod finds her a very mature human being. “The uncertainty in my life has vanished after she came. Our family has a companion now. There is happiness and hope all around.”
 
 Pramod and Meharunnissa are animated as they explain their future plans. “I will find a job for her…” “...I will work hard and buy a car so that I can take him all over the world…”
 
