NEW DELHI: In the third serious crash involving a luxury car within a week, a drunk youth at the wheel of a BMW went on the rampage in south Delhi's  , ramming a cab and an auto-rickshaw before breaking through the boundary wall of a residential area.

 Four persons, including a couple on their way to the airport and a senior citizen, were grievously injured and at least three vehicles mangled in the Sunday morning incident.
 
  
  
 Police said the driver, Rajat Prabhaker, 28, is the son of a businessman and was found to be driving the BMW registered in the name of a company, Daily Food India Koundli, in Sonipat. He was found to be drunk way beyond the permissible limit.
 
 Earlier last week, two Mercedes cars were involved in separate crashes in the city that left a 16-year-old boy dead and a man seriously injured. Both drivers were later arrested. Police said Prabhaker was speeding down the wrong side on Major Somnath Marg near R K Puram sector 9 around 8.30 am.
 
 
 
 
 After hitting two vehicles, the silver-coloured BMW came to a stop by crashing through a boundary wall and damaging another vehicle parked on the other side.
 
 "We have arrested him and charged him under sections of causing hurt due to negligence and dangerous driving, and challaned him under sections of the MV Act for drunk driving. Liquor bottles have also been recovered from the car," said additional DCP (south) Chinmoy Biswal. Eyewitnesses said Prabhaker was visibly drunk and couldn't stand straight after the accident.
 
 Police said Prabhaker is a resident of Karol Bagh and was returning from an allnight party in Vasant Vihar. He had gone to R K Puram to drop a friend.
 
 Police said Prabhaker is an alumnus of Shimla's Bishop Cotton School and completed his BCom from Delhi University in 2007 before joining his father's business. Eyewitnesses told TOI that they came out of their houses after hearing a loud crash. "When I stepped out, I saw a neighbour's car was broken from one side as heavy stones had landed on it after a BMW car broke through the wall," said Neelam Gupta.
 
 The BMW first hit a Swift Dzire cab being driven by Pradeep, 35. He was taking a couple, Munni Dutta, 28, and her husband Bitoo Pal, 32, to the airport.
 
 The couple, from Assam, are critically injured and doctors at the AIIMS trauma centre had not declared them stable till Sunday evening. The car then hit an autorickshaw parked on the side of the road with its driver Ram Chander, 60, inside. "I saw him a few minutes before the crash. He was peacefully reading a newspaper. After I heard aloud sound, I went out only to see him lying outside his auto, with his head bleeding profusely," said Tanuj Prabhaker, another eyewitness. "The driver of the BMW was coming from the wrong side and had a head-on collision with the cab and auto," said a senior police official.
 
 "I was leaning against the wall, next to my car, barely a couple of minutes before the crash and was preparing to go to our village in Haryana to celebrate Holi. I had forgotten the car keys inside the house and went back to get them. That was when the BMW broke through the wall and damaged my car," said Subhash Chander Yadav. "It was a close shave for me. Even though my heart cries out for the people who have been injured, I thank God that I wasn't one of the victims," he said.
 
 Police said they have informed the family members of the couple, both of whom work at private companies in Noida. Auto driver Chander's wife Ramvati said her husband had been driving an auto for the last 40 years without a mishap before Sunday's incident. "He had never as much as got a scratch on his body during all these years of driving. Today he is suffering for no fault of his. I hope he recovers soon," said Ramvati.
 
