Ludhiana: Ludhiana Management Association (LMA) organized its 39th annual day function ceremony at a city hotel on Wednesday. Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore was the chief guest of this event who gave away awards to six recipients. General Bikram Singh (retd), former chief of army staff, was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Year 2016 by LMA.

 Addressing the audience, Badnore said Ludhiana had a very rich culture of entrepreneurship, and had made immense contribution in terms of producing national and international level business leaders. He strongly advocated that industry and companies build strong brands so that they sustain in the long run, and also insisted that business leaders need conviction and strong will to succeed in a highly competitive business scenario.
 
 Delivering the keynote address on India’s security concerns, General Bikram Singh said: “India is strategically very sound and competitive with its neighbours on all the fronts. Pakistan is trying to destabilize the peace and stability of the nation by promoting terrorism. But Pakistan cannot fight directly with India, that is why it is indulging in a proxy war.” Speaking about China, he said: “India and China have very strong diplomatic relations and strong mechanism to tackle border disputes.” Singh also talked about internal security, naxalism, and cyber security issues. 
 
 LMA ANNUAL AWARD WINNERS
 
 1. Sat Paul Mittal Lifetime Achievement Award of the Year 2016: General Bikram Singh, former chief of army staff. 
 
 2. Vardhman Award for Entrepreneur of the Year 2016: Daljeet Singh, executive director, Amber Enterprises.
 
 3. Dayanand Munjal Award for Manager of the Year 2016: Jatinder Singh, manager, HDFC Bank, Ludhiana.
 
 4. Trident Award for Young Innovative Entrepreneur of the Year 2016: Abhimanyu Munjal, owner, Hero Fincorp.
 
 5. Hari Chand Award for Corporate Citizen of the Year 2016: Rajinder Sharma, convenor, Noble Foundation.
 
 6. Sohan Lal Pahwa Award for Emerging SME of the Year 2016: Dr Ravinder Verma, chairman, Ganga Acrowools Limited. 
 
 
