DEHRADUN: The main railway station of the state, Dehradun, has scored an abysmal rank of 309 out of the 407 major   in the country, in a   cleanliness report. Surprisingly, Kathgodam has been ranked 34, which makes it the cleanest station in the state. Union railways minister   released a third party audit report on station cleanliness besides inaugurating the Swachh Rail Portal this week, in which, Uttarakhand stands on sloppy grounds.
 
  Not just the state capital, the audit report portrays a sorry state of all the stations in the state with Roorkee standing at 167, Haridwar at 108 and only Rudrapur and Kathgodam making it to the top 100 in the list, with decent ranks of 96 and 34, respectively.
  
  The rankings shared on the ministry of railways’ Swachh Rail Portal also shows an overview of the analysis based on different factors that were considered for each station. The parameters include platform cleanliness, availability of dustbins on the platforms, cleanliness of toilets, waiting rooms and drinking water facilities. The auditors also checked if there were any instances of pests or rodents (rats, cockroaches, flies, mosquitoes) being spotted at the station premises. Besides, apart from the trains, cleanliness of the parking areas, main entrance, main platform, waiting rooms and cleaning staff were also considered.
  
  “We hold cleanliness campaigns at the Dehradun railway station at regular intervals and work is on for washable aprons to help in keeping tracks cleaner apart from putting up dustbins at several places. Also, the elevators should be ready soon enough. Maybe we will fare much better in the next set of rankings. As of now, we are working towards making our station cleaner every day,” said a railway official.
  
  A day earlier, Prabhu had said, “Indian Railways started the third party cleanliness index of stations last year and the railways have accomplished a significant improvement of the stations. This index instils a competitive spirit among the stations who try to outdo each other. The biggest challenge for authorities at the platforms are visitors from outside apart from the passengers. These people also use the toilets in large numbers, even though they are not travelling. The focus is on platform, coach and toilets cleanliness and track cleanliness. The railways have also introduced ‘Clean My Coach’ services which has received an overwhelming response. I urge civic bodies dealing with encroachments to come forward and cooperate in eliminating human waste from the tracks.”
  
  The survey was conducted by   (QCI) using questionnaires on cleanliness indicators. This was carried out by survey teams, who conducted face-to-face interviews with passengers after visiting each of the 407 stations across 16 zones, wherein every passenger was asked to rate the cleanliness of the stations objectively on 40 parameters.
  
  Meanwhile,  , a tourist who is a regular in Uttarakhand said, “Dehradun is a gateway to the best tourist spots in the Himalayas. It is high time that the station is given due importance and focus is shifted on its cleanliness. Any station getting an overall ranking of 309 out of 407 needs to buck up.”
