Amid rising concerns over depleting green cover in the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) launched the “Green App”, with the aim to distribute 10 lakh  . Within five days of its launch, there have already been 50,000 requests for saplings, with 5,000 citizens having downloaded the app – a clear indication that Bengalureans are keen on seeing the city recover its green blanket. 

 While individual citizens can collect saplings from BBMP nurseries in their respective zones or parks, after making a request on the app, organisations such as resident welfare associations (RWAs) can also place bulk orders. BBMP has also ensured that these bulk orders are delivered free of cost. Citizens get an acknowledgement on each request they make.
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad dubbed the response to the   “tremendous”. “We have plans to get more saplings in the coming days to meet the rising demand,” said Prasad.
 
 While the maximum number of saplings that an individual can request is 50, RWAs, NGOs and other organisations can request up to 200 saplings. BBMP nurseries across the city house saplings of 16 trees, including pongam (honge), mahogany, kadu badami, blackberry (nerale), gooseberry, that are best suited to the city’s environment. An official with the BBMP’s forest cell said, “Demand for pongam saplings is the highest, followed by sampige and blackberry.”
 
 How to green your neighbourhood?
 
 The saplings are nurtured at six BBMP nurseries located in Kempapura (east zone), Attur (Yelahanka zone), Sumanahalli (west zone), Jnana Bharathi (Rajarajeshwarinagar zone), Kudlu (Bommanahalli zone) and Hesaraghatta plant field (Dasarahalli zone). Those keen on procuring saplings, which are supplied free of cost, can download the app from GooglePlay, and enter their name and mobile number. Once the request is made, an SMS is sent to the number informing citizens that they can collect their saplings from either the nursery or a nearby park. Saplings procured through the app can either be planted within the premises of one’s house, or in public spaces, by working in coordination with the local staff of the BBMP.
 
 
