Gurgaon: Thousands of   rushed to their nearest automobile showrooms on Friday, hoping to cash in on steep discounts and freebies offered by   to clear leftover stocks of   compliant with the older BS-III   norms.

 However, many prospective  , who had queued up in front of the showrooms across the city since early morning, had to return home empty-handed as dealers either ran out of stocks or downed shutters to avoid excessive rush.
 
 On Wednesday, the Supreme Court banned sale of   compliant vehicles from April 1. To clear the stocks, automobile dealers reportedly announced big discounts on BS III bikes to lure customers. Some companies offered discounts of as high as Rs 20,000 on BS III models. 
 
 Hearing about the discounts, when people turned up in large numbers for the clearance sale, dealers shut down their stores, refusing to offer any  . Some dealers also put up banners to inform customers about non-availability of BS-III complaint bikes.
 
 “The companies made official announcements about discounts. I took a day off from work to available the benefit. But, now dealers are refusing to offer any discount. It has created a lot of confusion,” said Deepak Arora, a Sector 10 resident who works with a private firm on Sohna Road. 
 
 Surender Jha, a student of Guru College in Old  , spent around two hours in a queue at a showroom in Sector 14 only to return disappointed. “I thought my dream of riding a bike will come true as the manufacturer offered Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 discount on my favourite bike. I had to miss my classes to stand in the queue, but the shop was shut down even before noon,” he said.
 
 While a few two-wheeler dealers claimed that no discount was offered by the company, others said they ran out of stocks two weeks ago. “We have seen the advertisements, but never got any intimation about the discounts from the manufacturer. We had to send customers back. Definitely, people were frustration, but we couldn’t help them,” said Jitender Kumar, the owner of a showroom on Sohna Road.
 
 Another dealer from MG Road Harish Pahuja claimed they had cleared the BS-III stocks on March 24 itself. “How can we offer discounts when there is no   of BS III models? Now customers can only buy BS IV models. Since, there was no discount on BS IV models, so many appeared keen to buy the new variants,” he added.
 
 
