I joined the   (JNTU) in 1982. At the same time I was doing my B.Com in evening college. I used to go to   by 8 am and evening college at 6 pm. So from 8 am to 10 pm I used to be completely busy. But with no cell phones, Internet, social networks and unnecessary socialising we had enough time for everything, despite our busy schedule. We even had time for our friends. Life was wonderful. 
When I used to study in JNTU, we used to work late in the evening, though it used to close by 2 pm during those days. The authorities used to lock the doors the moment the clock struck 2. We used to request the peon to keep the studio open and let us work till 5 pm; sometimes we even bribed him with ‘chaipaani.’ Fortunately, we never landed in trouble because of that.
 We also used to go out for sketching with a typical jhola that is the identity of an artist, in crowded places like Charminar, railway stations, bus stops, even busses. We had enough space to sit and sketch. Now when I see those places I wonder what I would have done had I belonged to the current generation! There’s hardly any place to stand peacefully, leave alone sitting and sketching. 
 Then, I went on to do my post-graduation in UoH in SN School of Arts and Communications in 1989. I belonged to the first batch of students from the university. Even Laxma (Goud) sir joined the university as a faculty. We used to fight with each other almost every day. Unlike my classmates, I used to question a lot. He used to say, ‘Fawad, you talk too much. Tu zyada baat karta miyan.’ Many a times I used to be sent out of class for my attitude. In those two years we never had a single pleasant day. Now, I am glad that he was so strict with us. I used to work till 10 pm just to match his expectations. During that time, I also got married. Sometimes my wife used to come to meet me in the evening because I used to come home very late.
 Soon after I finished my post-graduation, I travelled abroad for shows and my resident programme in Europe. I lost touch with most of my classmates. I miss my college days. Life was hectic back then, but peaceful. Life wasn’t marred with politically motivated agitations and dharnas. You can’t match today’s lifestyle and those days. It was pure dedication — no commercialisation. 
 
