Bhopal: After the ‘Chai Pe Charcha’ fiasco, ‘Bhopal Choupal’, mayor’s initiative for direct dialogue with residents turned out to be an instant hit. At the inaugural Choupal on Monday more than 2,000 people turned up.

 Residents from posh colonies like Arera Colony, Shahpura, and those along Hoshangabad road to the narrow by-lanes of walled city turned up with a hope to get civic issues addressed.
 
 “Despite paying hefty taxes levied by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), we are struggling to get basic amenities,” said Anshu Gupta. Many others echoed her sentiment, as Sharma assured the citizens that their problems would be solved.
 
 In over a dozen cases, like cleaning of a drain at Shahpura, JP Nagar and BHEL swift action was directed. By the time the public meeting was over, Sharma went on to announce that some of the tasks were completed. 
 
 Mayor Alok Sharma said, “An open forum to resolve public issues with direct access to the BMC administration is an opportunity for the people and a challenge for the corporation to live up to the people’s expectations.”
 
 “Many of the requests relating to bulk water connection and transfer of some societies to BMC would take time,” he added. 
 
 After the less than enthusiastic response to ‘Chai Pe Charcha’ started last year, Sharma’s latest move was a success. ‘Chai Pe Charcha’ were centered around Swachh Bharat mission and held across various locations in Bhopal. Then, in some areas Sharma was cornered by supporters of other elected representatives, many of them from the BJP itself. In sessions outside his comfort zone of walled city, Sharma left the local MLA’s to hold ‘Chai Pe Charcha’.
 
 On Monday, about 250 complaints were received during the six hours of interaction with citizens. Mayor’s residence was open for public from 8 am to 2 pm. 
 
 ***
 
 TOUGH CALL: HANDOVER OF SOCIETIES
 
 Residents Welfare Associations (RWA) from Hoshangabad road brought to focus their long-standing demands over water supply, street light, issues with builders and pending request relating to handover of their societies to BMC.
 
 Danish Nagar colony is one of the many colonies in the state capital that has been demanding a takeover by the civic body. Every time they are turned down by the corporation officials on one pretext or the other.
 
 However, these RWA members carry stack of files relating to pending requests to counter any question by BMC officials to circumvent their demand. Striving to get off the leash of private builders, these RWAs are legally on a strong footing. For the BMC officials, who have best tried to evade any new takeover of societies, they were caught off-guard on Monday.
 
 “We do not want assurances ‘mahapour-ji’. We want resolution to our demands within a set-timeline,” said Danish Nagar RWA president, Anshu Gupta. “We have been told to meet BMC officials in the next few days,” she added. The RWA demanded linking of their colony to Narmada pipeline and handing over the society to the civic body. They claim that their request has been pending for over a decade. 
 
 BMC officials later clarified that in many instances private builders have not fulfilled requisite norms and until they are addressed, many private colonies cannot be taken up by BMC. Interestingly, the very civic body has given many of these builder’s project completion certificates and most of the builders are still operating in the municipal limits engaged with different projects. 
 
 MANAGING THE STORM DRAINS
 
 Residents of Aryan Wings colony at Hoshangabad road had a horrifying experience last monsoons as rain water gushed in their houses up to four feet damaging furniture and electronic good and appliances. Almost a year on, they fear a repeat. “The builder is oblivious to our concerns,” said Sangeeta Upadhyay, a resident and RWA member of Aaryan Wings colony.
 
 We pay civic taxes and other cess that is levied. All we demand is minimum basic civic amenities in return. We have repeatedly requested the corporation officials, but to no avail, said Manju Tyagi, also a resident of the same colony.
 
 LIGHTING UP THE STREETS
 
 RK Enclave colony residents are living in the dark. For some the sense of insecurity is such that they forbid their children not to travel alone after sunset. These residents have been demanding a very basic amenity - street lights. “BMC talks about smart city and intelligent street light system. We have been urging the BMC to provide street light along the streets that lead up to our colony gates,” said Kavita Prasad, a housewife and RWA member.
 
 Angha Deshpande, an RWA member of Kaushambi colony in Bagh Mugalia urged the mayor to take note of the civic issues in her colony. The residents have been complaining about need for better sewage water management system. Over the last few months, the BMC has initiated a pilot project to survey the extent of property development in the area. Those who have erred are expected to cough up levy hefty penalties for building permission violations.
 
 COURT DIRECTIVES
 
 Interpretation of court directives by the BMC has been a contentious issue over the last few weeks. Most recent case being BMC action to demolish a private property near Polytechnic Square for smart road development. Owners claimed private property was under litigation and they later obtained a relief from the MPHC, but only after damage was done. On Monday, Anand Vihar RWA led by society president Satish Agarwal cited a court order that would lead to development of an approach road to the colony. Earlier, the land was claimed by a local resident and MPHC vacated the stay in a decision. “An approach road project was held up due to the MPHC stay order. Now that the stay has been vacated, BMC should take the initiative and develop the approach road,” said Agarwal.
 
 In another issue, Vinod Kumar Gogiya claimed his private property near fish market in Itwara has been illegally encroached upon and converted into a parking space by the civic body. Called ‘Paiga building’ it was allotted to his forefathers through an ‘Inayat-nama’ by the Bhopal Nawab in 1904. The place was constructed to keep horses of the royal family. It was adjacent to two other buildings. Now, with just a huge banayan tree. Gogiya cited a court order that granted a stay with directives to maintain status quo. “BMC has illegally encroached upon land and converted it into a parking,” he alleged.
 
 
