MUMBAI: A prime sea-facing   plot in south Mumbai will be developed by Pune-based   Realty, which had earlier partnered with Donald   to build Trump   in Pune.

 The 2.2-acre land belongs to Marine Drive Hospitality and Realty, part of DB Group headed by developers Vinod Goenka and Shahid Balwa. Jinxed for a decade, a plan to construct India’s tallest luxury hotel on the land, the 125-storey Park Hyatt, was cancelled after DB Group found no demand for a hotel in that area.
 
 TOI learnt that Panchshil will soon sign a project management agreement with DB to build two 60-storey residential towers. Atul Chordia of Panchshil and Goenka refused to comment.
 
 Panchshil, through the law firm Wadia Ghandy, recently issued a public notice to investigate the land title. According to the agreement, Panchshil will develop and market the property and receive a percentage of the profits (around 15%). Panchshil will construct the four lakh sq ft built-up area at an estimated cost of Rs 10,000 a sq ft.
 
 DB Group had been scouting for a partner to develop the plot for the past few years. It was earlier in talks with Mumbai-based developer, Sheth Creators, to jointly develop the land.
 
 Two years ago, Piramal Realty, an Ajay Piramal group company, was in talks with DB to take over the project for close to Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 DB acquired the plot near S K Patil Udyan in Charni Road in 2005 from Suresh Estates Pvt Ltd.
 
 In 2011, BMC issued a stop-work notice to the hotel project for failure to pay Rs 200 crore in arrears. It charged a premium for building concessions the developer had sought. DB challenged it in court.
 
 One of the biggest beneficiaries of the state coastal body’s decision to designate Backbay in south Mumbai as a “bay” instead of a “seafront” is believed to be this prime sea-facing plot.
 
 The land falls under the coastal regulation zone (CRZ), which had put restrictions on its development. Till 2011,   norms had limited construction activity up to 500 metres from the sea’s high tide line. But an amendment that year reduced the minimum distance for construction activity near a bay from 500m to 100m, while retaining the old protection for seafronts.
 
 
