Although it has been two months since the Centre’s sudden and dramatic decision to withdraw the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes from circulation, there appears to be no end to the troubles of the agrarian community in the state. Cash deficit, coupled with lack of adequate infrastructure to conduct cashless transactions, threw life of farmers in Karnataka into disarray; more than 60 days after demonetization was announced, the farming community is still struggling to come to grips with the altered circumstances.

 Eshwaraiah Toragalmath, 48, owns four acres in Devanagav village in Sindagi taluk, Vijayapura district. Two weeks ago, he sold 25 quintals of red gram (thogaribele) at the Afzalpur market in Kalaburagi, and received an advance for his produce, in cheque. However, he has not been able to encash his cheque. 
 
 This is because Toragalmath has his account in a cooperative bank that is also facing a problem of cash shortage. Restrictions imposed on district   — they are not allowed to exchange or accept the scrapped notes — by the   (RBI) has affected farmers the most, since most of them have their accounts in these banks, and also take out loans from the same. 
 
 Kenchappa, a farmer in Nagamangala in Mandya, opined that the RBI should focus on printing more Rs 500 notes. "It is very hard to transact with the new Rs 2,000 note," he added.
 
 Besides adversely impacting transactions at wholesale markets, shortage of cash has made it hard for farmers to pay wages to labourers. "It’s become very difficult to maintain workers on the farm," said Revanna, a farmer from Hebya village in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru.
 
 On the other hand, those farmers, who succeeded in reaping a good harvest despite the failure of the monsoon, have also been left in the lurch. "Despite the drought, I was able to grow 800 quintals of onion. But, the prices crashed after demonetization was announced. I took a huge risk, but I did not get my due,"
 
 said Nagaraj, a farmer
 
 from Jagalur taluk in Davanagere district.
 
 The script is not dissimilar in the coastal district of Dakshina Kannada, where farmers focus largely on horticultural crops such as cashew, rubber and coconut.
 
 The Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Limited (Campco), which boasts 1.26 lakh arecanut growers among its members, has imposed a cap on daily purchase. "Since we are not receiving money from the point of sale, we have restricted purchase of arecanut to one quintal per day. As a result, in December, the procurement was 30% to 38% lesser in comparison to what was purchased in the same period in 2015," said Suresh Bhandary, managing director, Campco.
 
 Demonetization only compounded the woes of the coffee cultivators, who were already reeling under the consequences of a second consecutive drought in 2016. Besides, demonetization coincided with the coffee picking season. The crippling cash shortage has made it really hard for cultivators in Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan to hire labourers for harvesting the crop. 
 
 Agents and merchants, however, are capitalising on the farmers’ distress. Farmers alleged that merchants refused to lift their harvested crops, which consequently forced the ryots to sell their produce at throwaway prices. "They complain that the cap on daily withdrawal hampers their activities," the farmers added.
 
 However, the e-mandi facility available at the APMC yards has helped some of the farmers cope with demonetization. Joint director of APMC, Mysuru, Mahesh said, "We have seen more business this year. During November and December 2015, we saw transactions worth Rs 15 crore, while the figure for the same period in 2016 was Rs 22 crore."
 
 Money In Account, Not In hand
 
 Kariyappa, 48, is a paddy farmer at Genekehal village in Kurugod, Ballari district. "I sold one portion of my harvest to pay the labourers, and to make some purchases, such as buying pesticide. Although the local grameena bank gave me a cheque, I have not been able to encash it for the past 60 days," said Kariyappa.
 
 Thippeswamy, 32, who is involved in the cultivation of chillies in Kolur, Ballari district said, "At the market, I sold three quintals of my crop. But I had to furnish my Aadhar Card, voter ID and bank account details before the money was transferred to my account. But, owing to cash shortage at my bank, I was not able to draw money. I cannot stand in a long queue the entire day waiting to get cash. I was forced to take out a loan to celebrate the village festival, which is commemorated once every four years."
 
 Double jeopardy for the ryots
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sudden decision to scrap two high denomination notes couldn’t have come at a worse time for farmers. The timing of his move coincided with the harvest of the kharif crops, and the sowing period of the rabi crops. Moreover, after two successive droughts, agriculture was showing signs of recovery, following intermittent showers in December – a consequence of the cyclone, Vardah.
 
 Sowing for the rabi crop starts in the last week of October, and lasts till December. The target set by the state agriculture department for sowing during this   was 2.4 lakh hectares. However, data provided by the department shows that sowing has taken place in just 34,000 hectares.
 
 Inadequate processing and storage facilities has only added to the problems of fruit and vegetable cultivators. Those involved in the cultivation and sale of these perishable commodities have been hit the hardest as a result of demonetization.
 
 Although there has been a drastic drop in the wholesale price of vegetables, the retail prices have skyrocketed, largely because farmers appear to have stopped cultivating them in the past one month. "We expect vegetable prices to go up further in the next two months, particularly in Bengaluru," said Ravikanth, a wholesale vegetable trader.
 
 Fish industry in M’luru hit
 
 The price of fish has nosedived in the aftermath of demonetization. Mohan Bengre, president of Mangaluru Purse-Siener Boat Owners Association, said, "Demonetization, coupled with the hike in diesel prices, has really affected our business. The price of fish, which is sourced by meal companies, has gone down from Rs 20/kg to Rs 9/kg. Nearly 90% of the trawlers have not ventured into the sea lately."
 
 Old habits die hard
 
 Farmers are largely accustomed to cash transactions, and they do not readily accept cheques, even if they may have bank accounts. Old habits die hard
 
 Ganesh Shetty | rice miller in Gangavathi
 
 Banks refusing to give our money
 
 Cooperative banks have been the lifeline of the farming sector. But the restrictions imposed by the RBI has proved to be a disaster. Leave alone loans, they are refusing to give our own money
 
 Mallesh | former leader of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha
 
 (With inputs from Stanly Pinto in Mangaluru, R Uday Kumar in Mysuru, Gangaraju Siddagiri in Davangere, Sushilendra Naik in Vijayapura, H M Mahendra Kumar in Ballari and Mounesh Sonnad in Kalaburagi)
 
