CHANDIGARH: The   signaled the slog overs of the Punjab elections on Wednesday giving parties just 30 days between now and February 4 when votes will be cast. And despite being in election mode for nearly 12 months now, none of the main players in the state can claim that they have no sed ahead of the rest to be in a position to get a winning majority when votes are counted on March 11.
If anything, uncertainty is the central theme of the 15th election in the state since Independence.
 
 A special characteristic of this election is that for the first time it is a three-cornered fight, thanks to AAP's popularity here since the 2014   elections.
 
 Of the major players, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and AAP have announced most of their candidates with only a handful seats left undecided.Both parties had expected a rebellion when tickets would be announced and used the extra time on their hands to quell protests and tempers. surprisingly , the Congress is yet to announce candi dates on as many as 40 seats. This despite the fact that it had suffered heavily in the last election in 2012 when it had announced all its candidates after elections were declared and was left with very little time to placate rebels. The   had to contend with rebels on a number of seats who heavily cut its vote share and ensured that it finished second despite being in pole position earlier.
 
 It could well be left with a similar situation this time as well as there are many contentious seats where it want to field SAD and BJP turncoats but fears traditional Congress men will not appreciate the move.
 
 BJP , which contests on only 23 seats leaving the rest for SAD, has so far not declared as single candidate.
 
 AAP , which had taken lead by announcing 19 candidates in its first list on August 4, 2016, has named 109 contestants so far while its alliance partner Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) has named candidates for all five seats of its share. AAP still has to finalise candidates for 3 more seats in Amritsar district, said party insiders.
 
 While many see the Punjab elections as a triangular contest among SAD-BJP , Congress and AAP , there are many fringe players also in the fray like former AAP leader  's   (AAP), Patiala MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi's Punjab Front and BSP .
 
 Leaving out the smaller parties and independent candidates, it is a crunch political battle for the ruling SAD-BJP combine, which is trying drum up achievements of its 10-year rule in Punjab especially postdemonetization, and the Congress, which is itching to cover up the lost political ground in the country after its drubbing in the 2014 general elections. Many feel this is Congress's best chance to win a state and revive its sagging fortunes nationally.
 
 Even for AAP , which had sprung a surprise by winning four seats in Punjab during in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the assembly elections will offer it a chance to expand its footprints beyond Delhi where its government doesn't enjoy full powers like the governments in other Indian states.
 
