AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old man from Gwalior convinced the   to shut down a   on the ground that its   had afflicted him with  . In Gujarat, however, in the last three years, there has been just a single incident where mounting public pressure and intervention of the high court had led the civic body to order the shifting of a mobile tower from a community space. In other cases, citizens’ apprehensions on cell tower radiations affecting health have largely been overruled by the court or the administrative authority.

 In February last year, Gujarat high court issued a notice to the state government, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and ATC Telecom Tower Corporation Pvt Ltd after residents of Gulbai Tekra opposed the installation of a mobile tower in a public garden in the vicinity of an education campus and highly dense residential area. The petitioners had argued that the gesture of snatching garden space away — where AMC was the custodian -- to enable a private company to install a mobile tower should be discouraged. The court had issued notices, but with mounting pressure outside court the AMC took a decision to shift the tower.
 
 Between January 2015 and October 2016 the AMC had received around 33 complaints from citizens apprehensive of harmful effects of radiation from 3G and 4G cell towers installed in nearby buildings and even near educational institutions. “A decision to install cell towers in municipal schools in the city was also reversed in September 2014 after public outcry,’ said a senior estate department AMC official.
 
 Interestingly, in September 2014, Gujarat high court had directed the state government and the Centre to create public awareness that citizens have no reason to fear the emission of radioactive waves from mobile tower. 
 
 The HC had directed for widespread publicity in response to a PIL filed by residents of Mukti Park Society near Sola railway crossing who were opposing erection of a 4G tower by Reliance Jio Inficom Ltd.
 
 The bench of chief justice Bhaskar Bhattacharya and Justice J B Pardiwala had said, “The authorities should through TV, radio etc. bring it to the notice of people at large that there is no reason for them to fear the erection of the Base Transceiver Station, known as the Wi-Fi Mobile Tower.”
 
 “The reason why we are saying so is that the impression in the mind of a common man is that the Wi-Fi mobile towers erected all over the state has the potential to cause health hazards due to the emission of radioactive waves from the said towers.”
 
 In August 2014, Gujarat high court, while hearing a similar petition filed by residents of Kanakpur municipality in Surat, has said that there is no specific rule prohibiting installation of mobile towers near schools, hospitals or playgrounds.
 
 
