GREATER NOIDA: A 20-year-old BTech student was killed and five other students were injured when their speeding car crashed against a divider on Noida-Greater Noida Expressway on Thursday morning. The students were returning to Greater Noida from a late night party in Noida Sector 18, sources said.

 According to police, Paras Ahluwalia, a fourth-year computer science student of  , was at the wheels of a Ford EcoSport car with five other students. When the car reached Sector 144 at around 3am, Paras lost control of the vehicle and rammed against a divider. “Prima facie it seems the car was speeding and the driver suddenly applied brakes. The driver lost control of the vehicle and rammed against the divider. The car was badly damaged and the occupants were injured,” said a police officer. The injured have been identified as Lavneet Tomar (23), Aman (24), Dhruv (22), Himanshu Kumar (24) and   (23), all students of different colleges in Greater Noida. The car was registered in the name of Prince.
 
 A Maruti Swift car trailing the EcoSport could not apply brakes on time and rammed the EcoSport. There were four persons – Sanju Kumar (53), his wife Anita (51) and their two sons Ajju (15) and Akku (13) in the Swift car. The family from   was on the way to Agra when the accident took place. They escaped with minor injuries and were rushed to Felix Hospital, Noida.
 
 The police rushed the students in EcoSport to Kailash Hospital where Paras was declared dead on arrival. A doctor said the victim had received head injuries and also suffered blood loss. The other injured were discharged from hospital after preliminary treatment.
 
 Anuj Kumar, SHO, Surajpur police station, said that the body had been sent for post-mortem. The police said it was difficult to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. “We do not know whether the students were driving under the influence of alcohol,” Kumar said. The police have informed family members of Paras who live in Pathankot.
 
 Sharda University on Thursday held a condolence meet on the demise of the student. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson of   said that Paras was a fourth year student of B-Tech programme. “He used to stay in a private hostel outside the University campus. The University conveys heartfelt condolences to his family,” he said.
 
 
