NAGPUR: The   has cleared the decks for Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Sokta citizen facilitation centre cum shopping complex at  . The 68,358 sq ft (6,353 sq m) area notified for the project will also house Vidarbha’s first revolving restaurant.

 NMC received the notification issued by the state’s urban development department (UDD) for the project a few days ago. NMC sources said the government had notified 10,000 sq ft for construction of Sokta Bhavan on South-West corner of Gandhibagh garden in November 2003. The bhavan housed a library and NMC’s   office till a couple of years ago. The bhavan is lying abandoned since both were shifted to other locations.
 
 NMC had planned to construct a nine-floor citizen facilitation centre cum shopping complex after demolishing the existing structure of Sokta Bhavan. Corporator and former ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari had planned the project during his tenure as standing committee chairman in 2012-13. The new project required 68,358 sq ft are but existing area of the bhavan was only 10,000 sq ft.
 
 Now, the UDD has notified the entire area required for the project as citizen facilitation centre cum shopping complex, covering existing structure of bhavan and vacant land on South-West and North side corners of the bhavan.
 
 Project consultant Prashant Satpute said a revolving restaurant on 9th floor will be a highlight of the project. “We have ensured all clearances for revolving restaurant, including a special NOC from fire services office, Mumbai. The restaurant will be on the lines of two such locations in Mumbai, and will seat 70 persons. It will not be open to sky, but will be fully air-conditioned. It will be a unique project with garden and swimming pool on the upper floors,” he said.
 
 Tiwari said now project can come up within four years. “Project was delayed as it required too many formalities. Project will be executed on BoT basis. BoT operator will construct the Rs120 crore project and recover the investment by leasing out commercial shops etc for 30 years while operating and maintaining the complex. The project will be handed over to NMC after 30 years,” he said.
 
 Tiwari added that the hall coming up in the project will be used for public purpose. “BoT operator will have authority over commercial shops, garden, and swimming pool. NMC will also get hefty upfront premium from the project. Citizens will get all types of facilities in the project. Gandhibagh is a congested area, so we will also ensure enough parking facility in the project,” he said.
 
 Tiwari said tendering process to appoint BoT operator will start soon after building plan is approved by the town planning department. “A huge area of the garden was going to be lost as per earlier plan, but will now be saved with the latest notification. We were planning to incorporate   rail station in the project, but that was not possible,” he said.
 
