The song Jimmiki Kammal is what will spring to the mind of the audience when they recall Velipadinte Pusthakam. However, the film also had a duet  , which somehow went unnoticed in all the hoopla surrounding the energetic track that has become the rage all over the country.
 
 Neeyum was its singer Vrinda Shameek’s debut track in feature films and for her, the song’s feedback has been encouraging. “Obviously, you can’t compare it to the popularity of Jimmiki Kammal that has become an international hit but it was like winning the lottery for me, when music director   told me, among the movie’s playlist,   sir’s favourite is the duet,” says the self-confessed Mohanlal fan.
  
 On getting the opportunity to sing for a film, Vrinda, who has been doing TV programmes and devotional albums, says, “I had sent a demo to Shaan and he called me for another movie. However, that song couldn’t be used as it didn’t match the situation in the film. Based on my voice, Shaan had a clear idea of what I could sing and that’s how he asked me to sing this track.”
  
 Working with Shaan was a breeze, she says. “I was not tense at all. His only instruction was that it was a sweet melody and rather than paying attention to the finer details, I just had to ensure that I convey the emotions of the song.”
  
 The feedback was also heartening after the jukebox was released. “A lot of people called me up when the audio was out and told me they liked the song. Jimmiki Kammal and Neeyum are of two different genres. Every fast number has a shelf life. When another such track releases, people switch to that. However, I like to believe that melodies always endure,” she says.
  
 Vrinda has also sung in Kannada for a film titled Happy Journey and for music composers 4 Musics for their upcoming Malayalam film. The singer has been trained in classical music and says, “The offers and programmes that I have been getting are all film based. However, I also want to practise classical music and strike a balance between both.”
 
