NEW DELHI: In a dim, unfurnished room, Pankaj Kumar scribbles a few lines of political dialogues. He smiles as he imagines a character declaiming that a certain party has decided not to renominate its sitting councillors for the coming elections because it wants freshers to have their chance at looting the government treasury. Kumar knows this is harsh even as criticisms go, but it will please Swaraj India candidate Sarvesh Kumar in Chhawla. Kumar, a Najafgarh-based theatre artiste, himself has nothing against the political party he is so bitterly disparaging. If need be, he will nonchalantly change the tone and target of his dialogues depending on which among BJP, Congress and Aam Aadmi Party hires his skills.

 Clearly, it is time to add melodrama to the usual drama of elections. With candidates hiring actors and theatre groups for campaigning, a wit would be wont to describe the situation as “netas relying on abhinetas” to win over voters. Already, theatre experts have trained Youth Congress and NSUI volunteers in the way of the flash mob. So don’t be surprised to find a motley group clad in Congress T-shirts swiftly descending on a spot out of nowhere, put up a political performance that endorses the party’s views and disappear just as abruptly.
 
 Dramatists and actors too are out to make the best of poll season. Under the shade of a tree in Najafgarh’s Gopal Nagar park, members of Dharma Theatre Group defy the afternoon heat to rehearse. “Street plays can be politically devastating,” said Dharambir Mishra, who runs the group. Mishra has been paid an advance by Surya Kant, the Lok Janshakti Party candidate in Vikas Puri, to put up street plays from April 11. Mishra has also given a demo to Sunita Khanna, AAP candidate from Uttam Nagar, but is yet to clinch the deal.
 
 Can street performances deliver in the age of social media? Mishra thinks so. “I organised over 10 plays for BSP candidate Ram Achal Rajbar in Akbarpur during the recent UP elections. He won when his party lost badly across the state,” he pointed out.
 
 Amit Kumar Singh, who was in the theatre group that kick-started Swaraj India’s municipal campaign at Ramlila Maidan in February, explained, “Social media content does not have much credibility, but something said dramatically in street plays remains embedded in the mind for a longer time.” Such spectacles are also big crowd pullers in the poorer quarters that are home to a large number of voters.
 
 After actor Prabhat Yadav visited the BJP headquarters for a demo on Wednesday, Rajesh Bhatia, the party’s city general secretary said the leadership would soon take a call on yoking theatre groups for campaigning. So expecting more work in the coming days, Manoj Tyagi, who heads Fourth Wall Arts & Entertainment, said, “The demand for actors will increase as election day approaches.” And before the curtains come down on the election process, Tyagi and his ilk will have played their role on the political stage.
 
