LUCKNOW: Several persons, including three policemen suffered injuries in a   between two   in Para police station area, holding the city literally to siege for hours on Thursday. The irate mob also opened fire on one another during the clash and vandalised a   vehicle.

 Police registered three FIRs against nine named and 100 unidentified persons for rioting armed with deadly weapons, damaging public property, murderous assault and other counts but denied that the victim had suffered firearm injuries. The police also slapped section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act on the warring and 10 persons were  .
 
 According to police, gram pradhan of a village of  , Jamshed Ali was returning on his SUV to his home from Saadatganj and when he reached at Buddheswar Crossing (near Janta Property office), the SUV hit a school van driven by Babli who happened to be brother of Ram Kumar alias Guddu, pradhan of Salempur Pataura village, from behind. This led to a verbal spat and both groups attacked one another.
 
 Soon, it was a free-for-all with each warring faction attacking the other with sticks, iron rods and pelting stones. Some of them opened fire indiscriminately and there was complete chaos on the road. The brawl scared commuters so much they started returning to escape getting shot and there was a jam.
 
 On receiving information, a police team (dial 100) consisting of sub-inspector Shailendra Kumar, constable Sarvesh Pratap Singh and constable driver Mohammed Shahnawaz reached the scene on an SUV to control the situation. Seeing the police van, the warring groups mistook their rival might have called them. The irate mob turned the police vehicle upside down and damaged it. They also pelted stones and attacked the policemen and did not spare them even when they were pleading for mercy. One of the injured cops somehow managed to come out and informed seniors .
 
 Circle officer (Alambagh) Amita Singh, said it was a battle for   between two groups. “We have arrested 10 persons and heavy police force and PAC was sent to the troubled zone to contain the mayhem.”
 
 Para police station officer S N Singh said three FIRs have been registered by us and in the first Jamshed Ali lodged a case against Ram Kumar alias Guddu Pradhan, for firing and attacking his driver Rizwan, and looting Rs 2,500.
 
 In the second FIR, Ram Kumar alias Guddu lodged a case against Jamshed Ali, his kin Sadiq, Tariq and more than 36 persons alleging Jamshed Ali and his goons who attacked him and his brother Ram Baksh and Babli with intention to kill.
 
 One more FIR was registered against the above named persons and under charges of section 7, CLA Act. The police also lodged a case under Public Property Prevention Act against the miscreants.
 
 
