NASHIK: Make sure to keep your fuel tanks full Nashikites as the Nashik District Petrol Dealers’ Welfare Association (NDPDWA) will start close petrol pumps in the district on every Sunday starting May 14.

 Not just that, all fuel stations will operate on a single shift — from 9am to 6pm starting May 15. 
 
 The association has decided to implement these extreme step as a way of showing their displeasure to their long pending demand of increasing commission from the oil marketing companies which has not been done despite several requests.
 
 “The association has decided to   petrol pumps in the city on every Sunday, starting May 14. This is a pan-India decision taken by our parent association. Currently, petrol pumps are operational in two shifts between 6am and 10pm. Now, petrol pumps will run only in single shift between 9am and 6pm from May 15,” said NDPDWA secretary, Vijay Thakre. 
 
 From May 10, the petrol pumps dealers will also not purchase fuel. “We are taking these steps in a bid to meet our long pending demand of increasing commission on fuel by the oil marketing companies,” said Thakre. 
 
 Currently, the petrol pumps are getting a minimum commission from the oil marketing companies which is difficult for them to manage considering the daily cost of operation for the   dealers. “So, we want oil marketing companies to increase the commission. It’s been two years and they are yet to take a call on the issue,” added Thakre.
 
 The petrol pump dealers across the state had observed a two-day ‘no purchase’ strike on November 3 and 4 last year to press for their demand. Oil companies like HPCL, BPCL and   had reportedly incurred business losses to the tune of Rs 600 crore across the state in those two days.
 
 There are a total of 4,500 petrol pumps across Maharashtra, including 2,500 petrol pumps located along the highways. A total of 319 petrol pumps are located in Nashik district, including 74 in the city. Around 154 petrol pumps are along the Mumbai-Agra national highways and   highway in the district.
 
