CHENNAI: Students can look forward to an extended summer break, with the state government on Friday extending the annual vacation by a week, till June 7.

 The government said schools will not reopen on June 1 as scheduled because of unusually high day temperatures in Tamil Nadu.
 
 School education minister K A Sengottaiyan, participating at a function in Ambattur on Friday, announced the decision to postpone the reopening of educational institutions across the state.
 
 But CBSE schools plan to open between June 5 and 8.The government hasn't clarified if the extension is applicable to CBSE schools. Representatives of teachers' associations met the minis ter on Wednesday and requested that he defer the reopening of schools because of recurrent heat waves in several districts.
 
 The government had on April 18 ordered all schools, including CBSE-affiliated institutions, to close by April 21 due to an early spurt in temperatures ahead of summer.
 
 
 
 “I have in the past pressed school officials to extend vaca tions when summers have been very hot,“ said  , a parent. “This is a good decision and parents who want their children to get back to school as scheduled should be thankful that the government is taking precautionary measures.“
 
 The Met office said solar radiation, which peaks around noon every day, will be on the rise till the second week of June. The city already recorded its hottest day for the month in three years on May 18, when the mercury touched a maximum of 42.6oC. Weathermen expect the maximum temperature to cross 40oC on several days in June. SBOA School principal   said the institution's class rooms, especially those on the second and third floors, get very hot mid-summer.
 
 “There are also problems due to depleting groundwater,“ she said. “Morning sessions are fine but afternoon classes can be intolerably hot.“
 
 Many private schools in the state were planning, ahead of the government's announcement on Friday, to reopen only toward the end of the first week of June.
 
 “We were planning to open on June 5, so [the official postponement] does not change our schedule by much,“ MCC Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Chetpet, principal   said.
 
