PANAJI: Twelve  , two BJP, 16 MGP and 38 AAP candidates are among 166 contestants who have forfeited their   in the 2017 assembly elections after failing to secure at least 1/6th of the votes in their constituencies.

 Despite emerging as the single-largest party, winning 17 seats, Congress forfeited its deposit in four constituencies in North Goa and eight in South Goa. Candidates from this national party came in third place, losing to BJP and   in the constituencies of Pernem, Bicholim, Mapusa, Marcaim, Dabolim and Sanvordem. In Saligao, it was defeated by Goa Forward and BJP candidates and in Curchorem, by BJP and Goa Suraksha Manch. It came in fourth place, securing fewer votes than even some independents, AAP and NCP candidates in Priol, Vasco, Fatorda and Benaulim.
 
 Former Union law minister and Congressman   says elections are not only about parties fighting it out. “More than 50% of a candidate’s win depends on the candidate” he says.
 
 The BJP, that won 21 of the 28 seats it contested in 2012, didn’t forfeit a single deposit then. It wasn’t as lucky this time.
 
 Thanks to MGP supremo Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar’s triumph in Marcaim where he garnered 73 percent (17,093) of the total vote share, all the other four candidates forfeited their deposits.
 
 In Velim, that witnessed a fight between 12 contestants, only the winning candidate Filipe Neri Rodrigues and independent candidate Benjamin Silva were able to secure their deposits.
 
 In St Andre, eight candidates from the MGP, AAP, NCP, Goa Su-Raj party and independents failed to secure one sixth of the votes.
 
 The MGP, that fielded 25 candidates compared to seven in 2012, saw 16 candidates forfeit their deposits in Porvorim, Aldona, St Cruz, St Andre, Poriem, Valpoi, Ponda, Vasco, Cortalim, Fatorda, Margao, Navelim, Curtorim, Quepem, Sanguem, and Canacona.
 
 Former chief minister Churchill Alemao’s comeback in Benaulim helped the NCP save face as the party forfeited deposits in all the rest of the 16 constituencies it contested in. NCP’s 
 
 Congress candidate and former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes who contested from Saligao and MGP's sitting MLA Lavoo Mamledar in Ponda were among those who forfeited their deposits.
 
