BENGALURU: Notwithstanding the diktat from the party’s central leadership to end his squabble with BJP state president  , opposition leader in the   continues to remain defiant. In an interview to TOI on Monday, Eshwarappa likened his tussle with Yeddyurappa to the struggle depicted in the Hindu myth Samudra Manthan, where those churning the ocean first got poison before tasting the nectar of immortality.

 What prompted this sudden rebellion, particularly after the round of talks with Yeddyurappa and national president Amit Shah on January 27 to iron out differences?
 
 Let me make this clear: the recent spat with Yeddyurappa is not to boost my individual glory. It’s an effort to save the party. Despite clear instructions from Shah to set up a committee for recommending changes in state leadership, no action was taken in this direction. Yeddyurappa was supposed to call meetings to discuss these changes, but they were either postponed indefinitely, or held only with his close confidants. M Bhanu Prakash, Nirmal Surana, Sogadu Shivanna and Nandish were removed from party posts without reason or rhyme. These are people who have dedicated 20 to 30 years of their life to the party. How can you replace faithful party cadre with those who joined it from the erstwhile KJP?
 
 Yeddyurappa said you were only a stooge for BJP national secretary (organisation), and RSS man, BL Santhosh…
 
 These allegations that I am a frontman for Santhosh, or that I have been coached by him is a story concocted by Yeddyurappa. Santhosh is an RSS pracharak, and an allegation against him is an allegation against the organisation itself. So, is Yeddyurappa doubtful of RSS’s intentions now?
 
 Do you not think that washing the party’s dirty laundry in public has dented the BJP’s image?
 
 I know that this public tussle has damaged the party’s image ahead of the 2018 assembly elections. But, as was the case in the Hindu myth Samudra Manthan – churning of the ocean – you first get poison, and only then will there be nectar. I am hoping this fight gets resolved at the earliest, and BJP remains a dominant force in Karnataka’s political sphere.
 
 So, what is your agenda?
 
 I want to ensure that the party doesn’t go back to resort politics, which tarnished BJP’s image during the 2008-13 period. I want to restore people’s faith in the BJP, where there is internal democracy and which does not encourage nepotism.
 
 Why are you raising the issue in the state, when you could have spoken on the issue at the national executive meet? Will you speak to Shah on the matter again?
 
 The agenda for the national executive meet was fixed, and we could not deviate. Shah is already aware of developments in the state, and I am certain the issue will be resolved at the earliest.
 
 But the central leadership has asked you to end the spat with Yeddyurappa, and not indulge in activities of the Sangolli Rayanna Brigade…
 
 When Shah himself has given me the green signal on the brigade, where is the question of defying the leadership? Shah told me to continue with the brigade for a social cause, and push our political agenda along with the BJP’s OBC morcha. Muralidhar Rao announced this to the media on January 27. If he is trying to say something contrary, what can we do?
 
 
