COIMBATORE: A day after a video of two private buses being driven rashly on the   went viral on social media, the district police registered cases against more than 30   drivers plying on the route and also detained the buses. 

 On Sunday, the Ukkadam Bus Stand was virtually deserted. No private bus was allowed to travel to Pollachi. Ten were held at Kinathukidavu and more at Pollachi, Gomangalam and Mahalingapuram.
 
 Cases were registered against the drivers in the video under the Motor Vehicles Act. “ABS Ayyappa Bus Service driver V Nagaraj and SVT Sreevelavan Transport's Chakravathy were identified and their licences were suspended,“ said an official.
 
 District superintendent of police V Ramya Bharathi told TOI that more than 30 buses were detained on Sunday to ensure similar incidents didn't recur. The officials had detained 20 buses on Saturday . “We have only detained buses against which we got complaints. We have booked a few for speeding and the drivers who caused accidents will be remanded. The other buses were detained under the Motor Vehicles Act.“
 
 The buses were returned to the owners after they approached the officials. “It is unfair for the officials to punish everyone because of the fault of one or two drivers. We are not trying to justify the drivers who indulged in rash driving.
 
  By not allowing any private bus to conduct service, they are not just affecting our business, but also causing huge inconvenience to the public. There are 32   from Coimbatore to Pollachi, each doing nearly 10 trips a day . Buses plying to Palani have also been detained,“ said   secretary of the Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (south).
 
 RTO officials said they would conduct a meeting with private bus owners to find a solution.
 
 Pollachi sub-collector   said since the road extension work had begun, they were getting a lot of complaints against private buses. Bus drivers allege that they are asked to complete a trip within 60 minutes, which is “impossible“. “The timetable was set nearly two decades ago. Increasing traffic has made it difficult for the drivers to cover the distance of 40kms in 60 minutes. If a driver does not rush, he will lose his salary. There should be a permanent solution,“ said Durai Kannan. “At least, until the extension work is over, we should be given extra time,“ he added.
 
 However, RTO officials said it was impossible for them to alter or revise the timings. “Even if 10 minutes is increased, we will have to reduce the number of trips.We are hopeful that, once the train service commences between Pollachi and Coimbatore, a section of passengers would shift to the rail service and then we will be able to revise the timings,“ said an official.
 
