HYDERABAD: Lights. Camera. Lot of action. There will be a lot to remember as the   Formation Day celebrations are set to be on a large scale and exciting across the state from June 2. And guess who's coming to participate in the celebrations? A police contingent from Harayana. They will be part of the display being planned at   in Secunderabad on June 2 in which chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will participate. Harayana and Telangana have come together to forge ties as part of the `Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat' initiated by the Union ministry of culture. The idea is to exchange cultural vibrancy.

 “Sometime ago, cultural troupes from Harayana had performed in Hyderabad. They also learnt our Lambada dance,“ said director of culture  .
 
 Chief minister   has asked officials to plan week-long celebrations for the 3rd anniversary of the state beginning with a cultural extravaganza at   on the evening of June 2. Like the previous years, People's Plaza on Necklace Road will turn into a venue for the celebrations. Thousands of people are expected to make a beeline to the place to enjoy cultural programmes that are being planned there.“Telangana cuisine is everybody's favourite. There will be food stalls this time too offering mouthwatering items,“ Mamidi Harikrishna said.
 
 Illumination of all government buildings, monuments and important roads will prominently reflect the spirit of celebrations.With Chief minister K Chandrasekhara Rao directing that the celebrations be organized on a grand scale, officials have planned programmes down to the mandal level.
 
 In every district, 10 eminent people from different walks of life will be honoured and also given a cash award. At the state level too, 50 people who have distinguished themselves in their fields are to be honoured.
 
 Like the previous years, Pe ople's Plaza on Necklace Road will turn into a venue for the celebrations.
 
 Thousands of people are expected to make a beeline to the place to enjoy cultural programmes that are being planned there.
 
 “Telangana cuisine is everybody's favourite. There will be food stalls this time too offering the state cuisine,“ director of culture Mamidi Harikrishna said.
 
