NEW DELHI: Describing a magisterial court order as “bad and unsustainable”, a sessions court on Thursday discharged   MLA   of the charge of preventing a corporation engineer from demolishing an unauthorised building, causing damage to state property and beating up a government official.

 The court set aside the order which had taken cognisance of the chargesheet and framed charges against him on technical grounds. Additional sessions judge   said the magistrate court had not followed the provisions of the law while framing charges against Singh. “Since in this case, the necessary compliance with Section 195 CrPC has not been made, the cognisance as well as the charge framed subsequently, vide impugned order, is bad and unsustainable,” he said.
 
 The judge said as per section 195 CrPC, no court shall take cognisance of any offence punishable under sections 172 to 188 of the IPC except on the complaint of a public servant. The court argued that to proceed against Singh for the offence under Section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the IPC, the magistrate could not have taken cognisance on the basis of a police report and should have treated it as a complaint case.
 
 “Since in the instant case, the chargesheet was filed under various sections, including Section 186 of IPC and cognisance has been erroneously taken therein, the impugned order is liable to be set aside,” said the court.
 
 On the point of there being other sections besides Section 186 of IPC against Singh, the court said the facts have to be considered “as a whole” and there cannot be any splitting. “Considering the acts as a whole, if these disclose an offence for which a special complaint is necessary under the provisions of Section 195 CrPC, the court cannot take cognisance of the case at all unless that special complaint has been filed,” it observed.
 
 The prosecution had alleged that Singh and his associates obstructed   engineer Athar   and the demolition squad while the latter were discharging their public duties. It was also alleged that Singh and his associates “wrongfully restrained, assaulted, used criminal force and also voluntarily caused hurt” in order to prevent Mustafa from exercising his official duties.
 
 
