NAGPUR: Ghazal maestro late   has many fans in the city and his legacy remains in people’s hearts. This was proved when several ghazal lovers assembled on Friday evening at Mor Bhavan, Sitabuldi, to attend ‘Ek shaam Jagjit Singh ke naam.’ The programme was held by Sanvedana music group to commemorate  .

 The event was headlined by singers Bhanu Kumar Raut and Sushma Bhagat. Raut also designed the concept for the show. The duo together sang a medley of about 25 songs. They began the event with a bhajan, ‘Tum karuna ke sagar ho.’ It was a befitting tribute to start with Singh’s most popular ghazal from the movie Saath Saath, ‘Tumko dekha toh yeh khayal aaya.’ 
 
 ‘Duniya jise kehete hai,’ a ghazal which Singh sang with his wife Chitra, was the second on the list. It was followed by another song sung by the couple, ‘Duniya ka pehla khat.’ ‘Kal chaudavin ki raat thi’, ‘Humko dushman ki nigaho se’, ‘Bahut pehele se un kadmo ki’ and ‘Yeh tera ghar yeh mera ghar’ were the other songs presented. Vicky Nimje operated the synthesizer, Sudhir Gosavi played violin while   accompanied on tabla. Ashok Thewre played octopod and   supported with dholak. Vinod Pande took care of the sound. 
 
 The audience clapped and cheered the artistes who then went on to sing ‘Tum itna jo muskura rahe ho’ from the movie Arth. Another hit from Singh’s career, ‘Hosh waalo ko khabar kya’ from the movie Sarfarosh found immediate cheer. Raut kept three classic songs for the last — ‘Tum sunao mujhe woh kahani’, ‘Hothon se chhulo tum’ and ‘Jhuki jhuki si nazar’ — to leave audience with nostalgia and memories. 
 
 Raut said, “I keep listening and re-listening to about 40 ghazals sang by Singh. They never get old. Unlike other songs, one can connect with it and his songs speak to the heart.” 
 
 Sanvedana has completed over 15 years in Nagpur and often conducts free music programmes for the public. “We earn our living my singing at marriages and occasions. On other days, we conduct programmes solely for the public,” says Raut.
 
