NEW DELHI: Before today, the name   would most probably have drawn quizzical looks from most cricket fans outside of Australia. The 27-year-old allrounder had previously played a solitary ODI for Australia in September 2015, scoring 4 and going wicketless, and one T20I in the same year. A consistent performer in all formats for Victoria in Australian domestic cricket, Stoinis would perhaps have been known to the Indian audience from his stint with Kings XI Punjab in last year's IPL, in which he played six matches and took eight wickets and scored 146 runs. 
 
 But on Monday, Stoinis smashed his way into the global audience's conscious - despite the absence of the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy being aired publicly in India and the subcontinent - by hitting a most remarkable 146 not out from 117 balls, with 11 sixes and nine fours, to take Australia to within seven runs of what would have been an epic, against-the-odds ODI win over New Zealand at Auckland's  . 
 
  
  
 The scorecard will show that New Zealand made 286/9 and kept Australia to 280 all out in 47 overs to win by six runs, but to understand Stoinis' incredible impact on this match needs closer inspection. In the first half of this match, he bowled ten overs on the trot to finish with 3/49, the best figures by an Australian bowler on the day. What happened later was astonishing. 
 
  
  
 Stoinis, in just his second ODI innings and first on return to the team, walked in to bat at No 7 with the visitors in trouble at 54/5 in 13 overs when set a target of 287. The sixth wicket to fall was that of debutant Sam Heazlett, leaving Australia 67/6 and the inexperience Stoinis with only the lower order to bat with. The odds were heavily stacked against this depleted, almost experimental Australian side led by  , who having been recalled with   rested, had been promoted to captain with Mathew Wade not fully fit. 
 
 What played out was an extraordinary example of physical and mental prowess. Holding his composure and backing his attacking instincts, Stoinis targeted Eden Park's notorious small boundaries and shoved New Zealand backwards. Stoinis only hit three fours in his first 56 balls faced, but then accelerated. From 37 off 59 balls, he jumped to 55 in 65 with a four and two consecutive sixes off  . 
 
 He found support from   (25) and Pat Cummins (36) but when Australia lost their ninth wicket, the score was 226 and victory was 61 runs away. Undaunted Stoinis kept running singles when he felt they were required and chose what deliveries and which bowlers to target.   was clubbed for three sixes in the 42nd over, in which New Zealand captain   dropped Stoinis on 91 at long-off, though it was a very hard-hit shot. 
 
 Stunningly, Stoinis put on 50 for the last wicket with No 11 Josh Hazlewood who did not face a single ball in that partnership. Stoinis' sixth six gave him a century off 96 balls, and he thus became the first Australian to take three wickets and score a century in an ODI. The seventh six came off the next ball he faced, before Southee was clouted for two more sixes and a four in the 44th over. 
 
 On 134, New Zealand went for a review when a caught-behind appeal was turned down, but replays showed there was no bat involved. In the 47th over, sixes off the fourth and fifth balls bowled by Southee reduced the equation to seven runs needed, but on the final ball Williamson under-armed the ball from short mid-on onto the stumps to run out Hazlewood for 0, leaving Stoinis not out on a stunning 146. New Zealand thus won the first ODI by six runs. 
 
 This is the 15th time in ODIs that a player has scored a century from the No 7 spot. Stoinis' unbeaten 146 is the second-highest individual score from that spot, behind  's equally excellent 170 not out off 99 balls in a famous New Zealand victory over Sri Lanka in 2015. Faulkner, with whom he added 81 on Monday, is also on the list for his 115 off 73 balls against India in Bangalore in 2013, a century which came from the depths of 132/5 and took Australia to 326 in 45.1 overs in pursuit of 384. 
 
 Of the 15 centuries by No 7 batsmen, only seven have ended up in winning matches. Stoinis came agonizingly close. His innings will surely rank as one of the most exciting maiden hundreds by anyone in ODIs. 
 
 In List A cricket, this was Stoinis' second century. His previous best of 109 had come for Victoria. Overall, he has played 39 List A matches.
 
