Tempers ran high at the Miraj circuit house in   when public works minister   walked in and found that the   reserved for visiting cabinet members was occupied by the wife of a former chief minister. Patil was on a tour of western Maharashtra. His contention was the norms state that in every circuit house, the VIP room is reserved for cabinet members and that another room should have been allotted to the former CM's wife. Officials of the district administration and public works department attempted to explain to Patil the circumstances under which the room was allotted to her, but he was not ready to accept their arguments. Patil insisted it was a mistake on the part of officials of the public works department. Apparently,   activists had put pressure to get the VIP room allotted to the woman. Patil eventually agreed to move in to another room, but at the same time a probe was ordered against the official who allotted the VIP room to the wife of the ex-CM. 

  Unchecked corruption? 
 
 A section officer in the Nashik information commissioner's office has been arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) while accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. A Dhule-based   activist had sought information from the principal of an aided school. When the principal submitted that the information sought by him was not available, the activist filed an appeal before the education officer, who too rejected the appeal. The activist approached Nashik information commissioner K L Bishnoi. While the case was in progress, section officer Ravindra Shyamrao Sonar called the principal's husband and said that the commission would impose a fine of Rs 25,000 for failure to provide the information, but he would settle for Rs 15,000. Ultimately, Sonar agreed to accept Rs 10,000. The principal went to the ACB and demanded action against Sonar. A trap was laid and Sonar was arrested in the commission's office while accepting the bribe. According to an IPS officer, the appeal had been dismissed and there was no question of imposing a fine of Rs 25,000. However, Sonar ensured that the order was not communicated to the RTI activist and the principal. 
 
  Let there be light! 
 
 Cabinet members, their activists and relatives and family members of bureaucrats are upset over Prime Minister Modi's order on beacon lights. A notification issued by the ministry of transport and shipping states that except emergency vehicles belonging to the police, ambulances and defence personnel, red or amber beacon has been completely banned; even a covered beacon is not allowed. A week ago, when a senior cabinet member was travelling in a private car, his vehicle was stopped at the toll plaza on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. He did make an attempt to explain to the toll staff that he was a cabinet member and hence exempted from payment of toll, but was unable to establish his identity and he had to pay the toll. In fact, after Modi's decision, at least half a dozen cabinet members in the Fadnavis government have had to face a similar situation. Besides cabinet members, their relatives, personal staff, OSDs and relatives of bureaucrats have all been moving in private vehicles with a red or amber beacon to avoid payment of toll.
 
