HYDERABAD: NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao urged   ministry of external affairs to pursue Saudi Arabia to set up a consulate in Hyderabad. The minister made this request at the first MEA-State Outreach Programme - dialogue on consular, passport and diaspora issues held in the city on Saturday. 

 Considering the plight of stranded migrant workers in Saudi, KTR told Union minister of state for external affairs V K Singh to explore the possibility. A similar request was made by MIM leader and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, who met V K Singh at the programme.
 
 Asked whether it would be feasible to pursue the idea, the Union minister told TOI the Saudi Arabian government should also feel the need to open a consulate, but reiterated it would be discussed at the highest level. 
 
 Singh, however, was quick to pick up on another idea floated by K T Rama Rao, who said all Indian embassies and missions across world should encourage   to invest and generate employment opportunities back home. "We will ask embassies to tell NRIs about investment opportunities in India. This would be done on August 15 and January 26 and other occasions," said V K Singh. 
 
 KTR pointed out that 20 tech companies are in the process of setting up operations in  . On its part, state government would construct two IT Towers at a cost of 50 crore there. 
 
 "I understand the minds of NRIs, who have lived abroad for eight years. They want to do something for their country, state and village," he said.
 
 The state government also expressed eagerness to organise the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2019, in Hyderabad. Going by what V K Singh said,   is in competition with many states which have offered to host it. "It has been organized in Hyderabad once. I suppose NRIs would naturally be interested in seeing other places in the country," he said.
 
 External affairs ministry officials, including Protector General of Emigrants (POE) M C Luther and V K Singh were appreciative of the fact that Telangana government was cracking down on illegal agents. KTR said 746 illegal agents were booked for duping workers after they were taken to Gulf. An MoU was exchanged between the state government and MEA for construction of Videsh Bhavan in Hyderabad. KTR also asked Telugu lawyers to be appointed in Gulf countries to help Telangana workers in distress. 
 
