NAGPUR: Even a day later, the anger over being denied their   remains and is festering. From allegations of sheer callousness to conspiracy stories, theories are flying thick and fast.

  have blamed people for not searching the voters lists properly. But voters, for whom exercising their vote became a real ‘exercise’, retorted that the administration is giving flimsy excuses to cover up its lapses.
 
 During the 1990 state assembly elections, Congress candidate Anees Ahmed lost to Janata Dal candidate Yashwant Bajirao by just six votes from the then Nagpur Central constituency. “If six votes can make such a huge difference when lakhs of people voted, imagine the impact of losing out on hundreds of votes in civic elections,” said businessman Ashwin Mehadia. His mother has been casting her vote for the last 45 years, but her name was missing from the electoral rolls this time.
 
 Unable to vote because their names were missing from the list, chartered accountant couple Sandeep and Shweta Agrawal deliberated “how such goof-ups could happen in the age of technology”. Stating that it isn’t the voters’ job to cross-check data, Sandeep said, “When a mobile network operator is verifying data by linking Aadhaar cards, why can’t the government do it? Complaints of voters should be addressed online.”
 
 When it comes to extracting money and taxes from people, the system never fails and technology is used at its best, said 42-year-old chartered accountant Aditya Kothari, who adds “there are loopholes only when it comes to letting us exercise our basic rights”. Aditya checked all the voting centres of his ward but couldn’t find his name.During last Vidhan Sabha elections too, his name was missing, after which he had filed a complaint. “Two years back, I received a call from the collectorate and was told that corrective action will be taken. Do they expect us to run pillar to post again?” Kothari added.
 
 Residents of a building in Dhantoli alleged names were deleted from the rolls because of a political conspiracy.
 
 Many managed to vote but had to face many problems. Leading lawyer Shyam Dewani, a resident of Byramji Town, voted at a centre in Mecosabagh while his wife had to go to Jaripatka. “Our next door neighbour went to a centre at Katol Road. The civic body should have done a synchronized sampling,” said Dewani.
 
 Stating that the four ward system couldn’t be executed successfully, ex-MP and Congress leader Vilas Muttemwar said, “Three of my family members were sent to different polling booths. What is the point in dividing families? Voters were made to vote in prabhags where they don’t even stay.” Muttemwar called it a political plot. 
 
 On Wednesday, members of two organizations raised voters’ problems in front of civic officials. A delegation of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) submitted a memorandum to State Election Commissioner, divisional commissioner, district collector and municipal commissioner. “Spelling blunders, gender change and deletion of names was a common scenario at every centre. Though this time there was enthusiasm to vote, the voting percentage dropped due to these shortcomings,” said VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu. 
 
 Members of Parivartan — The Citizens’ Forum too met additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare and submitted a memorandum. “We had set-up an assistance centre at ward no 9. Despite using different applications and software, we found that there were many discrepancies in the available data,” said secretary of the NGO Dinesh Naidu. 
 
 With the expansion of wards, use of effective technology becomes mandatory, Naidu added. “As the database is not in English, it becomes impossible to search using English alphabets due to disadvantage of ‘matras’. Also, names in voting list should be matched with Aadhaar cards,” Naidu suggested. 
 
