The dispute over a 10-year-old advertisement featuring Sandalwood star Ganesh has now snowballed into a major controversy between the actor and director S  . The 2008 case, which started as a dispute between the actor and a private company, has now spiralled to personal allegations by the director, who thinks Ganesh filed the case against him.
 
  The issue relates to the use of Ganesh’s image in the   agarbatti products of the  . The company had a tie-up with   (2006) to use the images from the film for its advertisements. Narayan, who directed the film, was also its producer. However, Ganesh found out that his images that were not from the film were also used by the company in its advertisements.
  
  After reportedly confirming from Narayan that these images were not from the film, he filed an original suit for damages from the company for `75 lakh in 2008. The company dragged Narayan to the dispute and made him a party in the case. The court issued notice to Narayan at the request of the company. However, Narayan has turned his ire on Ganesh rather than the company. The director attended court on Monday.
  
  His advocate,  , has issued a legal notice to the actor. The notice says, among other things, that Narayan introduced Ganesh to producer E   and recommended him for the lead role in the film. Narayan was also supposed to direct  , the notice says.
  
  The notice says, “You had begged my client to introduced (sic) you in   industry and hence my client has recommended your name to act in Mungaru Male as hero and introduce (sic) you to E Krishnappa, producer of Mungaru Male and who is the close friend of my client and who is also present MLC. As my client was busy with some other film he could not able (sic) to direct Mungaru Male. Hence by considering your obedience selected you for the next movie and accordingly, my client has selected you as a hero for the movie Chulina Chittara.”
  
  Among other things, the notice also says that it was Narayan who boosted Ganesh’s career early on. Narayan has demanded that the case be withdrawn else he would be forced to file a suit for damanges for `10 crore. Narayan’s notice says that he made films with Ganesh in 2011 (Shylu) and 2012 (Munjane) but the actor did not mention the Cheluvina Chittara issue. The case was filed by Ganesh in 2008 against the company and Narayan was made a party by the company only recently.
