New Delhi: Beleaguered   said on Thursday that it is looking to nearly double loan recovery to Rs 9,500 crore, cut costs by around Rs 75 crore and sell some of the lowly-rated loans but may still find itself grappling with weak finances this financial year. 

 It had earlier announced plans to sell its stake in   and  , which is on course, a senior executive told TOI.   is grappling with losses as well as a massive pile of non-performing assets (NPAs).
 
 On a day when Moody's downgraded the bank, its managing director MK Jain disclosed the broad contours of the plan. "We are looking at all avenues to improve our capital position and bring the bank on the recovery track. We will look at aggressive recovery and cost-cutting measures and plan on churning our corporate book and risk-weighted assets which should also ease the pressure on capital. The government of India, our principal shareholder, continues to support the bank," he said in what was seen as an attempt to comfort employees and shareholders.
 
 The bank executive said IDBI is not expecting significant slippages and expects to maintain its capital requirement around the regulatory prescription of 5.5% of risk-weighted assets. But fresh accretion to NPAs as well as provisions for bad and doubtful debt made at the behest of RBI during the last 15-18 months is expected to keep the pressure on the bank, with executives acknowledging that the erstwhile financial institution may stay in the red in 2017-18.
 
 The sale of BBB or lower rated loans is expected to free capital as these assets require banks to set aside more funds to provide for possible losses.The bank is shutting down several of its offices such as Delhi regional office near Parliament as well as shifting many to   and Belapur to cut down operating costs. Similarly, the excess space available with branches is being reduced, with the size of some outlets going to be halved. These steps are expected to help the bank save Rs 70-75 crore and the full benefit will be realised next year. 
 
 Executives, however, said IDBI Bank is not selling its real estate assets, such as apartments in prime locations in Mumbai, to raise capital.
 
 It is, however, in talks with the government to get   and some other state-run institutions to buy its 30% stake in Sidbi, while its remaining 1.5% holding in NSE would be offloaded via the exchange's proposed public offer.
 
 
