MUMBAI:   are here for the   U-17 World Cup after featuring in a 'Mini World Cup' earlier this year in Croatia. After all, it's never easy to excel at the UEFA U-17 European Championships -the path to the World Cup -with some of the finest countries vying for only five berths available to Europe.

 This time Spain, Germany, England, France and Turkey are the teams from Europe to have made the 24-team competition that gets underway on Friday. To put Turkey's achievement in perspective, it would be prudent to recall that mighty footballing nations like The Netherlands and Italy have missed the flight to India.
 
 The Turks, who have been in the city for the past few days, are determined to continue building upon their good show in Croatia and are pooled with New Zealand, Mali and Paraguay in Group B.
 
 "We are well prepared for the tournament that is going to witness some really tough matches over the coming weeks," their coach Meh met Hacioglu, said on Sunday. Hacioglu has been at the helm of the U-17 squad since 2014. Born in Bulgaria, he represented top Istanbul club Fenerbahce as a player before taking to coaching post retirement.
 
 Turkey spent a few weeks in Qatar's capital Doha before coming here in order to brace for the heat and humidity they are likely to en counter in the next three weeks. Hacioglu feels there is little to separate the top teams and only those in supreme shape on any given evening will be able to progress.
 
 "We have a clear policy. We focus on every match as it comes and hope to get the best results," he said. So what does he make of his Group? "It is definitely tough. I have been trying to inculcate the habit of respecting every opponent among the boys. Only then can we think of beating them," insisted Hacioglu.
 
 A majority of the Turkish squad has been training together for the past four years, and the coach believes it's going to play an important role if his team are to march ahead. Also, Hacioglu believes he is up against some teams that are going to have players of superior physical built. But, he has plans to neutralise their overtures, he claimed.
 
 While every team around the globe was gearing up for the tournament when the European transfer window was still open in August, sports pages across the world dedicated reams of space to the sums that the likes of Brazilian striker   fetched in the market.
 
 So, do these kind of numbers fascinate the boys, who are barely months away from attaining adulthood and on the verge of breaking into the pro leagues? Do they fire their dreams further? Turkey captain  , a midfielder, who is part of the Galatasaray youth academy, said: "It is definitely exciting to know of these developments. It is interesting to talk about them. But for us, doing well for Turkey is the only important thing at the moment. Everything else can wait. Also, if we perform well at the World Cup, I am sure players will get some very good offers." 
 
