HYDERABAD: The   Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned   from indulging in any   ahead of the commencement of the next   

  TSBIE on April 25 released the tentative academic calendar for 2017-18. In the official notification issued to all junior colleges, the secretary of intermediate board, A Ashok directed the managements of all private unaided junior colleges to avoid promotional activities, including advertisements in newspapers. “No college should employ marketing strategies like appointing public relation officers or any such personnel for canvassing their case. No advertisement should be carried out through hoarding, pamphlets, wall writings. No advertisement should be made through electronic media or print media,” reads the official notification.
 
  The board has decided to take stringent action against managements which violate norms. “All the managements of private un-aided junior colleges are hereby informed that, if any deviation is noticed, the Telangana   of Intermediate Education will take action including disaffiliation of the college,” said Ashok in the notices. 
 
  While the board has decided to crack whip on errant colleges, corporate colleges seem to be unaffected with the move with many indulging into marketing activities. “The college has turned us into a tele-callers by setting targets for us. We make almost 100-150 calls per day to prospective students to fill seats once the admission process begins,” said Prathima Reddy, teacher at a corporate junior college in Mehdipatnam.
 
  The secretary has also warned colleges to take admissions in accordance with the schedule announced by the board. According to sources, the admission schedule will be declared by the board in the first week of May. All admissions have to be made online. However, random check on various junior college websites reveals that several managements have already commenced the admission process. 
 
  As per the academic calendar, junior colleges will have 222 probable working days out of 301 days. Students will get 79 holidays including Sundays, second Saturdays, public holidays and vacations. Maximum number of holidays is 16 days which is allotted in the month of September for the first term holidays.
 
