LONDON: Everybody is complaining about the raging London sun. Too hot, too harsh. Don't include two-time   winner   in that growing list.

 The 31-year-old Spaniard, seeded four, said, “Is always better (for me) when the sun is out. The conditions become a little bit more drier and the court is more firm. I hope the weather continues like this."
 
 Nadal, who won a record 10th French Open crown last month, taking his major tally to 15 titles reminded the press that while he was the king of clay, he could play on grass too. “I always had the passion to be a better player. Wimbledon is one of the most important events of the season. My dream always was to play well here. That's why I worked the right way to play well here in the past,“ he said, adding, “But I tell you one thing, because I've been winning a lot on clay people forget other things. When I was 16-years-old I played the junior tournament here. I didn't lose in the first round. I played the semifinals. I was not that bad on grass."
 
 Nadal, a five-time finalist, is into the second week of The Championships, where he plays another lefty Luxembourg's   on Monday, dominated the early rounds, winning in straight sets. “Is something that is little bit different when playing a left-hander for me. Is true that he is an opponent that has a special style, a lot of serve and volley, serving so good. I need to be very focused with my serve and try to be aggressive on the return to try to have chances,“ he said.
 
 The Spaniard, who has comeback strongly from the injury ravaged seasons of 2015 and 2016, said confidence was everything. “When you have problems is always that you don't have confidence with your body , then is much more difficult to play well. If you feel that you are healthy you feel confident, you can do whatever you want in terms of practice, you can move without thinking."
 
 “That's very important,“ Nadal reasoned, “because you're losing time in a match, thinking about how you have to put that leg there because it can be painful.“
 
 Nadal, who also plays football and golf, said he had a good short game and drive. Wimbledon's fourth seed, however, stressed that his best attribute as an athlete was that he was a trier. “The best skill I have is that when I do things I want to do it well. I put all my effort to try to do it well,“ he said. “I don't understand sport without trying your best. I don't understand go to play golf, and don't try your best. Sport is about competition."
 
 
