HYDERABAD: A motor vehicle inspector (MVI) working at   was caught by   (ACB) sleuths for being in possession of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income on Monday. They recovered properties worth about 3 crores, including a Mercedes Benz, from his possession. The tainted officer might just be an inspector, but he reportedly leads a lavish life and has a fleet of cars, including the Benz, a Volkswagen Polo, a Skoda Octavia, a   and a Mahindra Scorpio. 

 The ACB officials said raids were conducted on the properties of MVI Ghouse Pasha after surveillance was kept on him for the past several days. The ACB officials conducted simultaneous raids at 10 different locations in the state, including LB Nagar, Malakpet, Moinabad, Bandlaguda in the city, Karimnagar and Kothagudem. 
 
 The ACB officials said during verification it was found that most of his properties were registered in the name of his wife, son and daughter. At the Bandlaguda house in the city, the officials seized 1.7 kilo grams of gold ornaments, documents related to an 18-acre farm house at Moinabad, 70 acres land in Jangaon, a shopping complex in Warangal and several open plots. 
 
 "Pasha started his career as an assistant motor vehicle inspector in Adilabad in 1994 and worked at various checkposts at Warangal, Khammam and other areas. The officer has a reputation of extorting money from motorists passing-by through checkposts citing some shortcomings. He reportedly has a strong nexus with touts and collects bribes while processing applications for driving licence and travel documents,'' sources in the ACB told TOI. 
 
 All the cars and most of the properties owned by his family were registered in the name of his son, who discontinued his MBBS studies. His son, who has not been filing his  , gave inconsistent answers to questions about his income. Once he claimed that he was into real estate and later on he said that he had a dairy business, the ACB sources added. 
 
 The officials said most of his ill-gotten money was invested in land and buildings. He also receives big amounts of rent every month. Though the ACB officials pegged the value of properties seized till Monday evening at 3 crore, the sources said their market value would be much higher. 
 
