New Delhi:   has announced an academic partnership with   for its industry-oriented   programmes. The association is aimed at MBA aspirants nationwide and comes as a game-changing proposition in the fast changing and ever growing banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) industry. The program not only helps one get a good grounding of the fundamentals, but also gain insights that can help build a rewarding career in the   industry. Now in it’s fourth year of existence, TimesPro’s MBA graduates in BFSI have seen over 90% placement rates with prominent banks and financial services companies. 

 The MBA programme, conceived after analysing existing skill gaps and the growing demand for managerial talent, aims to tackle the unique challenges facing the industry. Designed to benefit the industry at large, the faculty will include prominent industry practitioners to provide necessary guidance to MBA aspirants.
 
 With intensive project-driven classroom training in the first year and full-time placement opportunities with leading companies in the second year, the programme is focused to hone the candidate’s managerial skills to effectively navigate the workplace and add value to the organisation.
 
 Commenting on the alliance, Anish Srikrishna, president, Times Centre of Learning ( ), said, “We are delighted to be associated with Bennet University. It brings together the rich BFSI training and placement experience of TimesPro and the futuristic learning resources and infrastructure of Bennett University. The USP of the MBA programme is its industry-vetted curriculum coupled with experiential learning through full-time employment opportunities in the second year. The MBA programme in BFSI is a premier course that has seen wide acceptance among prominent employers and will benefit every participant whose focus is to chart a career in the BFSI sector in the years to come.”
 
 Dr Yaj Medury, vice-chancellor, Bennett University, said, “Bennett University’s main goals are driven by the larger aim of enhancing India’s higher education sector, by providing every student a premium Ivy League learning experience. Our USP lies in the courses we offer in partnership with prestigious global institutions such as Georgia Tech (USA), Johnson Cornell (USA), Babson (USA), edX. We eagerly look forward to our engagement with TCLL as we share our aspiration for creating new educational programmes and identifying ways to bridge the gap faced by academia and current employment opportunities.”
 
 For details about the programme, interested candidates can visit www.timespro.com/mba or contact 1800-102-2326 for any query about the course offered/admissions.
 
 
