AURANGABAD: The city   will observe a pen down agitation on June 6 as a part of their national level movement that aims to bring the attention of policy makers towards the alleged atrocities faced by medical professionals, among various other demands.

 The protest is part of a call for national movement ‘Delhi Chalo’ called by the   ( ) to highlight the pressing issues and demands.
 
 Asserting that enough is enough, IMA national president   shared a set of demands in a communication addressed to the members, including opposition of criminal prosecution of medical negligence and clerical errors. The IMA has also initiated online petition to garner maximum support for its agitation to be held in Delhi on June 6.
 
 IMA’s Aurangabad chapter secretary   said city doctors would check the patients but would not issue any prescription, except in emergency cases, as a mark of protest on June 6.
 
 “Around 1% of IMA members from Aurangabad will participate in the protest planned in Delhi, while others will observe pen-down agitation between 10 am and 1 pm. It is high time that all doctors should unite and raise voice against injustice meted out to them at different levels,” Ranjalkar said.
 
 Besides expressing dissent over invoking criminal prosecution of medical negligence and clerical errors, the national body of health professionals has sought capping on compensation in Consumer Protection Act on doctors and professional autonomy in treatment and prescriptions.
 
 Pressing for stringent Central act against violence in medical profession, the IMA has stressed upon the need for amendments in PC PNDT Act and other legislations. Recommending One drug-one company-one price policy, the IMA has advocated for central anti-quackery law and no unscientific mixing of systems of medicine.
 
 Regarding students pursuing health science courses, the IMA has demanded that the government should empower MBBS graduates, scrap proposed exit examination for passing out students, creating 25,000 post-graduate seats in family medicines and facilitating single window registration of doctors and medical establishments.
 
 Ranjalkar said students from government medical college and private college from Aurangabad would be also roped during the June 6 protest.
 
 “The local IMA members who will be taking part in agitation at city-level would also hold special meeting in the evening to express solidarity with the national movement. The future agenda to be given by IMA would be discussed during the meeting,” he said.
 
 
