NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is investigating complaints from three journalists who have allegedly been receiving messages and calls from an unknown phone number threatening their lives. 

 The journalists have complained to the police that they had received messages and calls from a person who claimed they would face the same fate as slain journalist  . Police have registered an FIR and two NCRs based on the complaint and the cyber cell has been asked to track the caller.
 
 Police officers say they had received three complaints and registered a FIR in two of them. They said they are yet to identify anyone in connection with these threats. An   was recorded at the   police station, while the other two were reported at the IP Estate police station. “We initiated the legal process to register an FIR based on the complaints by the journalists immediately after we received the complaints. The cyber cell has been asked to probe each complaint,” Delhi police spokesperson   said.
 
 In their complaints, the three journalists claimed the threat messages they had received were somewhat similar and that they were threatened not to write anything against a political party or its leaders.
 
 One of them, working with a news portal, said he had initially received two WhatsApp messages but that he ignored them. Later, he got a call in which the caller mentioned the same threat. When he tried to call back, he found the number unreachable. Police suspect the caller might have been using a   connection. Sources say the messages were received by a television journalist and that he had informed the police.
 
 Senior Delhi Police officers say they have appealed to everyone to reach out to them if they receive such messages. A probe has been initiated to learn the source of the messages. Preliminary investigations suggest the caller might be someone the journalists know. 
 
 A case under appropriate sections of the law has been registered. Police have asked the journalists to submit copies of the threatening messages they received, and the numbers from which they were sent, so they can track the sender.
 
