THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The vigilance court will pronounce verdict on the case pertaining to joint venture of   and Heather constructions for construction of flat at Punnen road on April 25. 

 The case was registered following a complaint filed by   in which he cited that the college authorities entered into an agreement with Heather constructions violating norms and obtained permit for the construction of a nine storey flat. 
 
 In his complaint Navas said that corporation authorities issued permit to the construction without assessing documents. He also pointed out that the Law Academy Law College misused the status as a charitable society to avail relaxations during purchase of land and in construction of flat. 
 
 The complaint was submitted on February 1. He also said that the college purchased land during 1972-73 and since it was purchased in the name of a trust, the college authorities managed to avail relaxations in documentation cost and registration. In March the chief town planning officer ( vigilance ) submitted a site inspection report on the eleven storey residential cum commercial construction at Statue near Secretariat; a joint venture of Law Academy Law College and Heather constructions following a directive from local self government department. The government directed the   vigilance to conduct a site inspection report after it came to the notice of government that city corporation had issued building numbers to the construction after assessing that all the violations regarding the building have been rectified by the builder.
 
 TOI had earlier reported citing reports filed by CTP vigilance, urban affairs and local self government department which pointed out that the building constructed by the college was in violation of six rules of Kerala municipality building rules (KMBR) which pertain to mandatory open spaces,access for fire-fighting, boundaries of the plot intended for the proposed construction and any contiguous land belonging to the same owner. The LSG department directed the corporation to regularize the construction as per unauthorized construction regularization rules if the construction satisfies the regularization criteria.
 
