Suchitra Kamath, a 54-year-old conservative college professor in Mumbai, till recently knew and trusted only one way to secure her financial future — bank fixed deposits. Three decades of satisfactory returns with guaranteed return on capital is giving way to worries about whether she is on the right path to secure her future given that monthly bill payments are on the rise.
 
  The rapid fall in deposit rates in the last one year has shaken her belief in her favourite instrument for investments. Although she has been contemplating a shift to alternative ways of parking her surplus, the process quickened after   as banks sharply reduced deposit rates.
  
  What has been a no no in her family is now becoming a reality. The Kamaths are veering towards equity and bond investments like thousands of other Indian middle class families, and also to fixed income  , which are more tax efficient and yield better than fixed deposits.
  
  "You won't progress in life with only bank fixed deposits," says Kamath, who has scaled her bank fixed deposits to just about 10% of her total   from 90% about 8 years ago. "Fixed deposits will not help if you put bulk of your investments in those over a long period. Mutual fund investments yield much better if you hold patience. And I save for my retirement life."
  
  
 
  Kamath is a classic example of a quiet revolution taking place in India's retail savings space. The slow and steady change in the savings profile of the country could in the next decade ensure a steady flow of funds to other asset classes such as stocks, bonds, and even real estate   trusts which are slowly becoming a reality after a decade in the making.
  
  The change is already visible. Household financial savings in shares and debentures increased to 0.7% of GDP in fiscal year ended 2016, from 0.4% in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015. The proportion of fixed deposits dropped to 4.7% of GDP in fiscal 2016, from 4.9% in fiscal 2015 and 5.8% in fiscal 2014, central bank data shows.
  
  Even physical assets like land and gold, which used to be dominant assets in an Indian family's portfolio, are losing their weightage. These are down at 10.8% of gross financial savings in 2014-15 from 15.5% in 2011-12.
  
  Other data also points to a preference for financial assets though it may be a bit skewed because of the bullish sentiment. Net inflows into domestic mutual funds and the equity market are on the rise. In the three calendar years ending 2016, a whopping Rs 1.43 lakh crore has come into the local market through mutual funds compared to a net outflow of Rs 27,070 crore in 13 years starting 2001.
  
  Data from the insurance industry also shows a similar trend. Assets of the insurance industry are up 75% at Rs 28 lakh crore in the past five years.
  
  Dilip Nachane, a professor at the Mumbai-based Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR), says a favourable tax policy, urbanisation and a new breed of young investors are driving this push towards high yielding investments.
  
  "To a large extent what is driving this change is an uneven tax policy because of the double taxation of bank FDs, which effectively depresses the returns compared to a marginal tax or almost an exemption on dividend income," says Nachane. "More and more investors are seeking higher post-tax returns. Younger investors, in particular, are more entrepreneurial and risk-taking. They prefer stocks and equity instead of FDs because interest rates do not match their expectations of real returns."
  
  Interest earned from bank fixed deposits is treated in the same tax slab as the investor's income, which can be as high as 30%. But equity returns are tax-exempt after one-year holding period. Returns from equity mutual funds are tax-free after one year, and debt funds have a tax rate of 20% after indexation benefits after three years.
  
  Nikhil Naik, a Mumbai-based financial distributor, says the sharp drop in bank deposit rates in the last one year along with demonetisation has forced small investors to think about alternative investments to park their savings.
  
  In the last two years, one-year bank deposit rates have fallen 135 basis points, while five-year deposits are down around 150 basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Even the taxfree public provident fund rate has dropped to 8% in 2016, from 8.7% in 2014 mainly in response to interest rate cuts by the RBI. In contrast, the 30-share BSE Sensex has delivered an eye popping 32% return in the last one year.
  
  "We are observing a new trend not seen in the last two decades," says Naik. "Many traditional investors, who were earlier confined within bank, corporate fixed deposits and PPFs, are now shifting to mutual fund debt schemes that offer higher rates. Demonetisation has added to this momentum as the move has made people realise that cash lying idle at home does not yield anything."
  
  It is not as if all small investors are moving towards equities en masse. Some investors, particularly senior citizens, who have seen many such interest rate cycles are staying put because they prefer safety of investments to sky-high returns, and rightly so.
  
  "India has seen wider movements in interest rate cycles," says Manoj Nagpal, CEO of Outlook Asia Capital, a Mumbai-based wealth manager. "The 6 to 7% one-year   rate of SBI is not an alltime low because we have seen a 5% FD rate as well. Senior citizens who have been investing in FDs have also seen this cycle, so they are not shifting."
  
  Nagpal says it is the younger investors in the age group of 20-45 years and not fussed about guaranteed returns, who are rapidly moving towards equity investments.
  
  Banks also do not want to have excess investments flowing into their kitty. Because the nature of funding of businesses is also changing. After the bad loans blow-up, the regulator wants banks to reduce risks by forcing big borrowers into bond market rather than remain in the comfort zone of bank loans. Furthermore, banks’ high cost due to losses from bad loans is also making borrowers look towards mutual funds and insurers.
  
  "We are going to see a lot of stock-oriented companies raise resources from the market. It is already showing in the bank credit data, in which industrial credit, which was 80% to 85% more than twenty years ago, has come down to 50-55% now," says Nachane.
  
  Sustained investments from these converts will be under test when tide turns in the the market. As in previous stock market downturns, investors could flee market in droves and not return at all for the rest of their lives.
  
  "I had invested Rs 50,000 at the peak of share market nine-ten years ago," said 41-year-old Ashish Nahar, who works for a technology company in Mumbai. "I lost the bet badly as I incurred losses exiting investment after three years. I am not really looking at share market investments irrespective of any lure now."
  
  But this time may be different given investors' attitude. More than 50% of money flowing into equity funds on an average is through systematic investment plans, which gives it a feeling like the US' 401K retirement plan, which some believe was key to their (US plans) performance. History may be a guide, but may not necessarily repeat. 
