NEW DELHI: A 57-year-old   owner and his   were   dead after an argument with a group of customers over switching on an   at Nangli Sakrawati village in Najafgarh on Wednesday. 

 The miscreants fled after the incident, but one of them was caught at night. The dhaba   died on the spot, while his son succumbed to his bullet injuries during treatment on Thursday.
 
 The incident took place around 10pm. The dhaba owner, Shyam Verma, ran the eatery named Sangeeta Hotel near a bus stop with his son Mayank. Around 9.30pm, five men on two motorbikes stopped at the hotel and asked Mayank to serve them dinner. When Verma asked them to wait, the men hurled abuses at him. Verma did not react and asked his son to take their order.
 
 After some time, one of them asked Verma to keep the air cooler near them. When Verma refused saying there were other customers at the eatery as well, one of them walked up to the cooler and kicked it. The cooler fell and got damaged.
 
 In the ensuing argument, one of them pulled out a pistol shot Mayank in the neck. When the bleeding Mayank fell down, the men started walking out. Hearing the gunshots, Verma, who was at the cash counter, ran out and tried to stop them. One of the men then held him by the throat and shot him in the forehead. They shot him three more times and sped off.
 
 Locals rushed the father-son duo to a private hospital in Dwarka where Verma was declared dead on arrival, while Mayank was admitted in a critical condition. He died of his bullet injury on Thursday morning.
 
 “We registered a murder case on the statement given by the eatery staffers. One of the shooters, Karim Khan, was arrested after a nightlong hunt. A search is on nab the rest,” said DCP (outer) MN Tiwari. A team led by inspector (special staff) Sukhbir Malik has been tasked to track down the remained accused, who have been identified.
 
 The hotel staffers said that the men were drunk and had even got into an argument with other people outside the dhaba. Verma’s nephew Sahil alleged that Mayank would have survived, but the first private hospital they went to refused to admit him fearing harassment by the police.
 
 Verma and Mayank used to stay in a two-room apartment at Anand Vihar colony in Najafgarh. Verma has set up the hotel in his wife Sangeeta’s name, who had died four years ago. Mayank is survived by his wife and two-year-old son.
 
