NAGPUR: “Patients suffering from   must increase   in their diet. Also, they must reduce the intake of salt in their daily food,” said dietitian  . 

 He was speaking during a one-day rehabilitation programme organized for paralytic patients, on Sunday. More than 20 patients were assessed for their paralytic condition and received training to deal with their conditions in a better way. 
 
 The camp was organized by Vayodha Wellness at Pande Memorial Hospital. “There is a great need to train the patients hit by paralysis as their mind needs adjust to their condition for a fast recovery,” said Wankhede, who is also the CEO of Vayodha Wellness. 
 
 The patients were first assessed for their condition and then guided accordingly by a team of doctors. “The patients, even those who have been in critical condition, must be ready to do basic exercises as soon as possible to increase the chances of better recovery,” said Dr Miten Mohta, physiotherapist. He added that the aim of the rehabilitation camp was to try and make the patients independent. 
 
 During the guidance programme, the patients were instructed about strength, balance and trained for walking. Families of the patients were also guided about ways of caring for a paralytic patient and informed about safety precautions for them. “Patient’s safety is very important and for that families must be trained properly,” said Dr Mohta.
 
 The camp was divided into five sections. In the first, physiotherapist Dr Manisha Nazareth undertook the walking assessment of the patients. In the second, occupation therapist, Dr Bhagyashali Suryavanshi conducted upper body assessment, while the lower body and muscle power assessment was done by physiotherapist Dr Sneha Ramteke at the third section. The fourth section was of body balance assessment and the fifth for guidance. The last two were led by Dr Mohta and Wankhede respectively. 
 
 “The programme was good and I think it has helped me. But, the onus is with the patient to take the efforts and follow the advice of the doctors to better one’s condition,” said Nagesh Gaskeshwar, one of the patients.
 
