NAGPUR: Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers who try to wriggle their way out of transfers using political connections are now on notice, with the commissioner taking strong exception to the “unethical” practice.   (IAS), commissioner of   ( ), has issued directives to all employees against using pressure on authorities, failing which they “will have to face the music”.

 Mall’s hard hitting directive sent in December minces no words and makes his anguish known, because KVS employees (teaching and non-teaching staff) seem to have clearly ignored his earlier letters. Mall wrote, “I am once again constrained to write to you regarding the unofficial and unethical approach being adopted by some teachers and employees of KVS to bring political influence or recommendations from high dignitaries for getting their transfer.”
 
 Since KVS operates institutes across the length and breadth of the country, transfers of teachers happen as and when administrative requirement arises. Each year KVS implements a transfer process, in what many say is a transparent method, to fulfil staff requirements.
 
 While it is said that KVS does work to resolve genuine issues of teachers getting transferred, not everyone ends up happy. It is common practice for teachers and non-teaching staff to get letters from their local MPs or other prominent figures addressed straight to union ministry of human resource development (HRD) officials, seeking an exemption from transfer orders. This has irked Mall even more because it happened despite his previous warning.
 
 “In spite of our consistent efforts to address all genuine grievances of KVS employees, many of our teachers and employees are still sending their representations to HRD minister, KVS chairman and other higher officials of the department regarding their transfer. It is highly objectionable and a gross violation of conduct rules and officials procedure meant for all KVS employees. This bad practice is not only hampering the work of other offices of MHRD but also bringing a bad name for the whole KVS family,” wrote Mall.
 
 The angst in Mall’s letter gets more aggressive as he makes it clear that those violating the rules will be dealt with strictly now. “KVS will no longer accept this practice. Hence, it needs to be curbed immediately. Those employees who are making such representations regarding their transfer or other service matters without following established official procedure must be dealt with suitable disciplinary action. KVS has viewed this practice very seriously and decided to take disciplinary action against such teachers and employees,” wrote Mall.
 
 To ensure that no teacher claims ignorance of Mall’s directives, every school has been asked to take a signed acknowledgement. Mall wrote to his subordinates that “the content of this letter must be brought to the notice of every teacher and employees of your school by handing over a copy of this letter and obtaining his/her signature as an acknowledgement”.
 
 
