The   between the two women was recorded on a   shot by an  . A   (NC) was registered by the advocate at   on Monday night. It is unclear what the provocation for the fracas was.

 The video shows Deputy Chief Commercial Manager, FOIS, Swati Sinha assaulting a female advocate, Delilah Fernandes. In the video, available with Mirror, Sinha is seen slapping, pushing and hurling Fernandes across the floor by her hair.
 
 "I was shocked at the incident. My clothes were torn and I had multiple injuries. However, due to the intervention of the railway staff who came to my aid, I managed to survive," Fernandes said, adding that the video had captured just a part of the ordeal.
 
 "She slapped me around and threw me on the ground by tugging on my hair. She then kicked at my neck and chest," a distraught Fernandes said. "I was standing in front of the ground-floor lift in the admin building at CST, when Sinha approached me from behind. She asked if I was Delilah Fernandes; when I said yes, she started hitting me."
 
 While Fernandes said the attack was unprovoked, Sinha had a different story to tell. Sinha said the issue dates back to 2015, when she was the deputy chief claims officer.
 
 
  
 
 "She (Fernandes) had behaved very inappropriately while dealing with her duties in the Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT), for which I had asked her to not attend court. Bearing a grudge for this, she had gone ahead and filed a representation against me. In response to that, and to her inefficiency in dispensing her duties, I had asked the senior authority to remove her from the railways panel, and had even suggested that a letter to debar her be sent to the Maharashtra Bar Council," Sinha told Mirror.
 
 Sinha said since that time, Fernandes had been trying to cause "mischief" and had been harassing her. She claimed that matters reached a head on Monday, when Fernandes made a lewd gesture with her finger at Sinha. "Even though I regret it now, I was too angry and her gesture pushed me to take the extreme step," Sinha said. "It is the 2015 incident she is talking about, when I had done nothing wrong and that is why despite her multiple attempts to get me out of here, I am still on the panel. The reality is that she is jealous of me. She wants me out of here for her personal gains, nothing else," Fernandes said, in response to Sinha's claims.
 
 On Wednesday, Fernandes wrote to the commissioner of police, asking him to lodge an FIR against Sinha. "The way she was hitting me, I could have been seriously injured, or even died. She needs to be punished," Fernandes said.
 
 Not only Fernandes, but the entire RCT advocate community is up in arms after the incident.
 
 The RCT bar council has threatened to take serious action if the GM doesn't institute an internal enquiry against Sinha in the next seven days and order her immediate suspension.
 
 "We are going to conduct an inquiry by nominating a senior lady officer to investigate this," said Narendra Patil, chief PRO, Central Railways.
 
 
