A 20-year-old has kicked his job as a   to follow his   after his   that went viral has made him an overnight sensation.   who has no formal training in music renders a   in the almost two-minute video. The video recorded on a cellphone in an   in Bavla where he worked as a guard has since attracted 6,100 likes and 4,000 retweets from a single tweet.

 Bollywood celebrities Anupam Kher, Riteish Deshmukh and singer Shreya Ghosal have praised his singing skill in their retweets. Ratan has also started getting offers to sing in Gujarati movies. Bollywood musicians Sachin-Jigar who heard the youth’s song has expressed a desire to record a song with him in a radio interview.
 
 Talking to Mirror, Ratan said, “A week ago my friend Dev shot the video casually and another friend Mayur Devmurari floated it on social media. I never thought that I would become so popular overnight. I learnt singing by watching TV and listening to music. Singers like Sonu Nigam, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, Kirtidan Gadhvi and Osaman Mir are my inspiration. I now want to participate in a reality show to prove my talent. A career in singing will make Gujarat proud of me.”
 
 Since the video went viral, Ratan, who hails from the Balasinor in Mahisagar district, has left his job as guard that earned him Rs 12,000 to follow his dream of making it big in singing. The 20-year-old, who had to discontinue studies after class 12 and became his family’s sole bread earner following his father’s death, said, “Now, I want to fulfil my dream. As friends are supporting me, I won’t look back.”
 
 Folllowing his online popularity, offers of singing from Gujarati movies have started pouring in. Dhimir Pipavat, a Gujarati film producer whose big budget film starring Amar Upadhyay and Tiku Talsania will be released soon, has assured Ratan of a song in his film. “Ratan is a big talent which should not be wasted. We are going to train him so that he can start his professional career in singing at the earliest. He has such a great range of voice that he can be successful even in Bollywood. I have assured a song in my next film. We are also planning to make a music album with him.”
 
