NOIDA: Pravish Chanam, the 22-year-old student from Manipur who went missing from a concert in Greater Noida on September 8, was found   around 5.30pm the next day near Noida’s Nithari village. He was found unconscious near a gate of the venue following the concert that night and admitted to Noida’s district hospital, but is believed to have fled the following morning.

 Police kept his body in the mortuary for three days and cremated him on Wednesday, claiming his identity had not been established. The youth’s family alleged police negligence and lack of coordination as a missing person’s complaint was filed at Knowledge Park police station on September 9.
 
 The family said Pravish came to Delhi on September 7 and stayed at his friend Ashok’s place in Safdarjung area. They planned to attend the concert of international artistes,  , at Greater Noida’s Expo Mart with two other friends, Sachin and Teresa Karam, all from Manipur.
 
 His brother Ravikanta Chanam said the four friends met around 15-16 other friends at the venue. They then consumed liquor. Pravish’s friends did not notice when he went missing. His friends launched a search after the concert but failed to trace him. The next day at 12.30 pm Ashok informed Ravikanta about his disappearance.
 
 Ravikanta filed a missing person’s complaint on September 9 at Knowledge Park police station. 
 
 Lin, Pravish’s cousin, said the family continued visiting the police station but they did not get updates for several days. The police said they had put the missing info on zipnet and distributed pamphlets for the search.
 
 On Wednesday. the police informed the family that Pravish was admitted to the district hospital on September 8 but later fled.
 
 Dr  , emergency medical officer of district hospital, said Pravish was found at gate no 1 on the day of the concert. “The hospital staff admitted him to the emergency ward at 10.30 pm after someone brought him there. He was drunk and had fits,” he said. The entry in the register records his arrival at 12.45 am. At the time of his admission, he only had some minor injury on his legs. There is no information on who took the youth to the hospital.
 
 Renu Aggarwal, acting CMS of the district hospital, said Pravish fled from the hospital without informing the medical staff at 7.30 am on September 9. “In the evening some locals found him lying near a car market in Nithari village. The police brought him to the district hospital at 5.30 pm where he was declared brought dead,” she said.
 
 Failing to establish his identity, the police cremated him on Wednesday. On Thursday, the family members reached Nithari police chowki where they were informed about the cremation and were shown Pravish’s clothes. The postmortem report stated the death was due to shock and haemorrhage due to head injury. It also mentioned blunt force injury on the face, skull, thighs, ankle joint, etc. But the victim did not have such injuries when he was admitted to the hospital. It is believed he received injuries after he left the hospital.
 
 Ravikanta blamed the lack of response of the police and the hospital. “We suspect this could be a murder. The officers of two stations failed to make any contact even after five days of disappearance. What was the hospital administration doing when my brother left the premises? The police also posted the info on zipnet two days after the missing. We demand a fair probe,” he said, adding Pravish’s three friends who went to the concert should be questioned.
 
 Love Kumar, SSP GB Nagar, admitted there was lapse in police response and investigation. He suspended three cops — sub-inspector   and constable Sanjeev Kumar of Knowledge Park police station, and Rakesh Babu, sub-inspector and Nithari police chowki in-charge — in this regard. SHO of Knowledge Park police station, Akhilesh Tripati, was also sent to police line for dereliction of duty. “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” Kumar said.
 
 A deputy resident commissioner of Manipur also met the SSP and demanded swift investigation.
 
 
