NAGPUR: Orthodoxy continues to prevail around us, and one must fight to exercise one's freedom, which is a so-called right in today's society. Taking this theme, the   was staged in 2008 and it showcased two   coming together to spend the rest of their lives in companionship. But, later the companions, Major Sudhir Vaidya and Ramabai Gokhale, played by Dr Girish Oak and   respectively, are forced separate owing to rejection by their children. The play was written and directed by Anand Mhavsekar.

 U-turn 2 carries the story of the two estranged friends forward, who meet again after the gap of one year. 
 
 The play begins with Vaidya visiting Ramabai at her Pune home after a check up at city's  . The set shows Ramabai's living room and she is visibly surprised to see Vaidya. Te quirks of the couple to engage the audience and the acting and chemistry between the two leads is natural and lively. Smooth flowing dialogues make the audience laugh and giggle. 
 
 Meanwhile, ill health prolongs Vaidya's stay at Ramabai's house, and the two eventually decide to reunite. But again, it's not easy. They are mocked, harassed and asked to leave Pune by the so called ‘guardians of social culture’. The play hits bang on the topic of companionship also alternatively used explained in the term ‘live-in’. It also raises various issues like whether the society has the right to decide with whom one should live, whether marriage is necessary for two people of opposite sex to live together and whether marriage is the only yardstick for a civilized culture.
 
 The play sees the couple giving a tough fight to the society’s established norms. But they are again confronted with the question of whether they should legalize their companionship.
 
 Certain dialogues made a mark during the play. The dialogue ‘A man should know how to live in the present’ sums up the core idea of the drama. While the dialogue ‘When you feel that the society is standing against you, turn your back towards them and try to take a selfie. They will come close to you for a picture,’ left the audience in splits. The play is laden with wit and humour and also has its moments of seriousness.
 
 Videos interspersed between the acts enhance the experience of the viewer and adds to the narration of the story. All in all, the two-character play is complete and a befitting answer to those who live by rigid values and enforce their opinions on others.
 
