NAVI MUMBAI: The state government aims to commission the   (NMIA) by 2019-end, but work at the ground level is at a “standstill” even two months after  , nodal authority for the Rs 16,000 crore project, closed the finance deal with   (MIAL) and sent it to the government for its approval.

 The reasons: Cidco is yet to get the   from the Union ministry of environment and forests ( ), without which “no work can be done even in the non-forested land of the core airport area”, and the state government is yet to convene the cabinet to give approval to the deal.
 
 Cidco and the stakeholder are concerned about meeting the deadline for the first take-off. “A one-month delay is understandable, but two months? Yes, there is concern,” the stakeholder said referring to the delay in nod from the state cabinet.
 
 Currently, only the survey work is going on for the third package of Rs 530 crore -work for Ulwe hill blasting, cutting and river diversion. Sources said the hill blasting and cutting and further land filling —for the runway—will take 18 to 24 months. 
 
 Cidco has submitted a certificate to the Centre stating there’s no claim of tribals on the forest land and is awaiting MoEF’s approval under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 based on which it will issue orders for diversion of forest land. 
 
 Besides, Cidco is yet to appoint the consultant for the hill operations. It said it would do so soon.
 
 Pointing out that project affected people who need to vacate as many as 10 villages for the airport operations have stuck to their homes, sources said the delay in approvals could have emboldened their stance with individual demands—a viewpoint that’s growing on Cidco as it wants them to move out by May-end. 
 
 Cidco has expressed the hope of getting the MoEF green clearance soon. It expects the the project management implementation committee, headed by the state chief secretary, to be convened “any time this week”, for the cabinet to complete the formalities by giving an official stamp to the project. Cidco can hand over the letter of award to the stakeholder only after the cabinet nod.
 
 
