KOLHAPUR: Two years have passed since the daylight murder of rationalist Govind Panasare but his   for the masses is still very alive in the minds of his comrades and the people for him he had waged the battles. 

 The leader of the   (CPI) was attacked by gunmen on February 16, 2015 and succumbed to injuries four days later. He had led various struggles, from the workers unions’ agitations to the anti-toll protests. He had also found various organisations for justice in the industrial, social, and cooperative sectors.
 
 Today, the   office at Bindu chawk , the hub of his political activities, displays a citation honouring Panasare as Kolhapur Bhushan for his work in social and workers welfare sector. 
 
 Elder party workers and members of the Dhudh Sangh Karmachari Sanghatana (milk cooperative workers union) and communist organisation in the district cooperatives remember him: “The late comrade Anna (Pansare) sowed and nurtured seeds of collective leadership among the members. But, he never took credit for collective success. Therefore, the struggle for justice for the masses is still alive. He laid down the foundation of struggle. The party could have collapsed, if collective leadership was not there. We are continuing the struggle.”
 
 “We don’t want to destroy industries. The late comrade put down some principles for negotiation with industries. We look for maximum welfare of workers,” they say.
 
 Dilip Powar, Kolhapur district general secretary of the   and member of the state working committee of the Communist Party of India, say, “Panasare had distributed the responsibilities among party workers and gave autonomy. He had belief in collective leadership and constitutional struggle to achieve justice for common masses. But, the situation has changed much in the past two years. The government is not sensitive on various issues. It is mulling over closure of kerosene supply over environmental issues, would not continue the ASHA workers. We have launched agitations against such injustice. We have carried the baton of struggle forward.” 
 
 Megha Pansare, daughter-in-law of Govind Pansare, said the state government does not have the political will to probe Pansare murder and bring the culprits to book. “The government is not serious about the probe. We are raising voice against the delay in probe. But the government is deaf. The people have started questioning the credibility of the government. We have adopted the constitutional way of protest. The failure in probe puts the security of other public figures at risk. It also encourages anti-social elements.” 
 
 She further said, “The trade unions and other organisations have continued their work. It is true that we feel the vacuum created by his demise. But, the ideological base of the party and vivacity of workers have kept them intact. It will take time to develop leadership among workers. Pansare did not become leader in one or two years. He spent his life for the party and people.”
 
 Another party worker said, “Pansare was the highest authority in the party and trade unions. His word was the last word in all disputes. He used to take decisions after consultation with party workers. But, after his death, differences started surfacing on issues such as policies on agitations. The old generation need to give space for youngsters.”
 
