BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to sensitize people to problems arising from  ,   a   will showcase films on the theme from across the globe. Set to commence at the Institute of Engineers from Monday, the two-day festival will see the screening of 23 award-winning films. These will include shorts, documentaries and full-length feature films 

 "The festival has received an overwhelming response not only from filmmakers, but also interested viewers. I can safely say that it has helped change the perceptions of people about disability and inclusion," said  , secretary of Aaina, a voluntary organisation that has been holding the festival here, in association with Brotherhood, for the last six years. 
 
 The main attraction of this year's festival is the competition of one and five-minute long films celebrating diversity. This year, the focus is on cerebral palsy and mental retardation. Experts on the subject will discuss various aspects of the disease and also talk about their treatment and management. 
 
 Odia film actor Anu Chowdhury and disability rights activist Jitendra Biswal, who has also acted in the acclaimed film, 'Two Desires One Dream', will attend the inaugural session. 
 
 "I am a regular at the 'We Care' film festival. It not only throws light on the pathetic life conditions of disabled persons, but also highlights the special skills and abilities that they possess," said Rashmita Pati, mother of a 12-year-old differently-abled kid. 
 
 Among the films to be screened at the fest are 'The Steps of One Hand' by Iranian filmmaker Kioumars Samadi Tari. It is based on the story of a severely paralyzed young man. Despite having no legs and a hand, he aspires to climb up the stairs of Milad tower, the sixth tallest highrise in the world, and seal a pride of place in the Guinness Book of Records. 
 
 Similarly, a film from Myanmar called 'Traveller' tells the story of a young woman who becomes disabled in her early childhood. Her story is about the triumphant human spirit.
 
