In a city like Bengaluru, which is bursting at its seams owing to the vehicle population on its roads every single day, what will the consequences be if   are shut even for a day? That has been the discussion everywhere, after some petroleum dealers associations in south states decided to shut shop on Sundays, starting May 14. The decision came after PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to cut down on fuel consumption. While the petroleum ministry later denounced the decision of dealer associations, the Karnataka State Federation of Petroleum Associations is yet to take a decision on this. Will bunks here follow suit? We catch up with 
 Bengalureans on this matter... 

 
 
 If pumps are shut down on Sundays, it will not only be inconvenient for motorists, but also lead to major queues and a mad rush to fuel up on Saturday evenings and Monday mornings. Rajeev Krishnan, a businessman, says that the nature of his job is such that he has to transport heavy products in his car all day across the city, even on Sundays. He rues, “If pumps are shut on Sunday, I’ll have to store fuel in cans for that one day, which is inconvenient. The demand for fuel is not going to go down by having pumps shut for a day.” 
 Ramesh K, a mini-cab driver, says that if this move comes into effect, drivers with small cars like him will have a tough time on Sundays. “Every 150-200 kms, we will have to fill fuel again. Filling the tank the previous day will not help even regular cab services within the city, and we can completely forget making long trips to other southern states if fuel stations everywhere are going to be shut.”
 
 
 
 Manoj M, an ambulance driver in the city, says that such a situation will not be ideal for those in his position, but considering that he is part of emergency services, this is again something they will have to plan in advance and prepare for. “This will put us in a tricky situation when we have to attend to more than 3-4 emergencies. But considering most of our vehicles’ tank capacity is huge and if we fill it fully, we will have sufficient fuel for a day. Still, to be on the safer side, we will have to keep reserves at the hospital or our homes,” he says.
 
 
 
 “No,” says environmentalist  , and adds, “It is utter nonsense. As the PM, Modi is supposed to make policy changes and not be preachy, and urge people to reduce fuel consumption. You look at the amount of smoke emitted every day from petroleum corporations. Can he do something about that? If saving the environment is the agenda and he wants people to reduce using petrol, he should start by removing big automobile companies from the country. We’ve destroyed our water, land and air, and have literally played with the climate. Not using fuel once a week is really not going to make a big difference. We should be cutting down on fuel usage all seven days a week, but for that the government should bring in strong policies. Trying to inspire people by urging them to stop using fuel once a week won’t work out.”
 
 
 
 “Officially, we’ve not been told anything, and my dealers also haven’t confirmed whether they will close on Sundays or not. They are the ones who run the outlets. Dealers have an association which has recommended that they stop fuel sales on Sundays, but we will have to wait and see how many of them will comply with it, even if the association takes such a decision,” says a sales manager of a leading oil company. However, she says that the company hasn't heard anything from the dealer association after the ministry has come hard on such a decision. “Though the association initially said that they will close the pumps on Sundays, they remain mum after the ministry has made its stand clear. But if dealer commission is their issue, that’s a different matter altogether. They already have some discussions lined with our senior management in Mumbai,” informs the official. 
 
 As the confusion looms large, the public can only hope that things will be sorted out before May 14, and that the pumps will continue to function normally.
 
 
 
 
