Being excessively hygienic, keeping your children from playing in the soil and taking antibiotics from a young age could do you more harm than good. In fact, according to gastroenterologists of the   (WGO), the ‘hygiene hypothesis’ has brought down the immune system of people, making them more susceptible to inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) which are Crohn’s disease and Ulcerative Colitis (UC). 

 With symptoms such as diarrhoea, blood in stool, weight loss, fatigue, abdominal pain, increased bowel activity and others, the IBD is generally caused due to an abnormal activity of the immune system. Explaining the same, Prof Uday Ghoshal, senior gastroenterologist, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), said, “Normally, the immune system protects the body from infections caused by bacteria or viruses and once the infection has been cleared, the immune system “shuts off”. In people with IBD, the immune system overreacts to normal bacteria and once it starts working, the immune system fails to ‘shut off’; causing inflammation which damages the digestive tract.” To spread awareness of the same, May 19 is observed as World   Day, the theme for this year being World IBD Day. 
 
 “In India, there used to be more infections so people’s immune systems were accustomed to bacteria, hence there were fewer allergies. Now, there are more such cases reported. Of 800 patients that come to our department every month, at least 25 have either of the IBD conditions,” said Prof Ghoshal. 
 
 He said the reason lies in the population getting more urbanised and losing its connection with natural elements like soil, being overly hygienic and popping medicines often.
 
  Two types of IBD:
 
 Ulcerative Colitis : Affects the inner lining of the large intestine (colon)
 
 Crohn’s disease : Can affect any part of the digestive tract — from the mouth to the anus
 
 What IBD patients need to remember:
 
 1. Smoking is extremely dangerous as it nullifies the effect of medicines
 
 2. Routine painkillers should be avoided as they trigger an IBD attack
 
 
