SURAT: Four complaints of rioting and unlawful assembly were lodged in Kapodara and Sarthana police stations in connection with the violence that broke out after Patidar groups protested outside the venue of BJP Yuva Morcha event late on Tuesday. 

 Two BRTS buses were set ablaze in Varachha within 15 minutes by 10 pm and rampaging mobs also damaged the glass doors and windows of Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) community hall at Yogi Chowk late in the night. They also damaged a cabin of Shramik Annpurna Yojna Bhojanalay near Savaliya Circle. 
 
 The rioters first stopped a BRTS bus near Green Park Society 3 and forced the driver and three passengers to get down. They pelted stones at the bus and then set it ablaze by throwing some inflammable material. Another bus was torched opposite Pushpak Row House. Four persons each on a motorcycle came there and stopped the bus. Soon, nearly 30 persons started pelting stones and then torched the bus
 
 Police said that total damage to public properties is estimated to around Rs 46.75 lakh. While three complaints were lodged in Kapodara, one was registered in Sarthana police station by the community hall’s watchman.
 
 Police also detained 38 rioters from the spot of rioting and were brought to Umra police station at night. Soon, a group of   followed them to the police station and forced cops to release them. The rioters were also booked for damage to public property, wrongful confinement, mischief by fire or explosive substance and assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty. 
 
 The trouble began when around 300 Patidar members gathered outside BJYM event on Vallabhacharya Road, where the outfit’s president Rutvij Patel was present. They started pelting stones and hurled eggs and tomatoes at police too. After torching the buses, the mob shouting slogans of ‘Jay Sardar Jay Patidar’ reached the community hall and resorted to vandalism. The damage to the the hall was estimated to be around Rs 60,000.
 
 On Wednesday, the situation remained peaceful in Varachha and other Patidar-dominated areas even as police stepped up bandobast in the areas. 
 
 “We have started detailed investigation in all the four cases registered against the hooligans. We are collecting evidences and have got some strong clues of those involved in instigating the crowd. Those involved will face actions,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 
