KOLKATA: After months of turmoil, the Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute ( ) has finally got a director. Dr  , who has joined as the director on January 27, has already drawn up some interesting plans for students of this institute as well as film school aspirants in the northeast, north Bengal and Sikkim.

 Mitra told TOI: “I am enjoying my new work profile to the fullest.” A designation that has room for her to look into both the academic and administrative functioning of the institute is an advantage for Mitra. As her first initiative, she plans to introduce a six-month integrated course at the SRFTI’s extension campus in Arunachal Pradesh’s Itanagar. “The course should start in April. Debasish Ghoshal, professor of the sound recording and design department of SRFTI, is the nodal officer for this project.”
 
 An Itanagar campus of the film institute is coming up on 52.2 acres of land at Jollang Rakap — 74km from Itanagar. This campus will be larger than SRFTI which is built on 40 acres in Kolkata. “We got the land for this over Rs 200-crore Itanagar project in August last year. We from SRFTI will be in charge of this campus. We are expecting the campus to be functional in another two-three years. It is being designed in a scale that matches up to SRFTI and FTII. We have also taken up a space close to 10,000 sqft in an existing building at Vivek Vihar in Itanagar for starting the integrated course,” Ghoshal said.
 
 Incidentally, a feature film directed by an alumnus of SRFTI (Haoban Paban Kumar) from Manipur has made it to the prestigious Berlin Film Festival this year. Paban’s success story makes it all the more relevant to have a course for film aspirants from this part of India. “Those who have cleared Plus Two will be eligible to apply for this integrated course,” Mitra said.
 
 Back on the Kolkata campus, there are plans to introduce a new television department. With TV being an important space offering career opportunities, having a separate department will go a long way in helping interested students. As of now, SRFTI has six departments — direction and screenplay writing, motion picture photography, editing, sound recording and design, animation cinema and producing for film and television. “We might even introduce this department from the current academic session,” Mitra added.
 
 The day Mitra joined the institute also marked the commencement of the Clapstick 2017 — the international students’ film festival. If all goes well, Mitra also has plans to revive the National Students Film Awards.
 
 
