SURAT: Thousands of textile traders in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market in the city hit the roads to participate in a mammoth rally to protest against central government for not accepting their demand of keeping MMF fabrics out of the purview of Goods and Services Tax (GST) here on Saturday. 

 Leaders of traders’ community claimed presence of over one lakh people at   on Ring Road. The 2.5-kilometre stretch from Salasar Gate to 451 textile market was packed with traders. The rally was organized under the leadership of Hitesh Sanklecha, a textile trader who is on an indefinite hunger strike for the past eight days. Sanklecha told TOI, “I have never witnessed such a mammoth rally in my 30 years. The traders hit the roads voluntarily to demand removal of GST on fabrics. I am sure the central government would take note of the traders’ unity and announce its decision at the earliest.”
 
 The traders shouted slogans against Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, Navsari MP CR Paatil and the Central Government for imposing 5 per cent GST on fabrics. The traders were carrying placards stating that they do not want GST. A group of traders removed their shirts and walked half-naked. 
 
 Meanwhile, about 165 textile markets on Ring Road, Sahara Darwaja and Salabatpura remained shut for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday.
 
 Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) president   said, “This is first time that such a huge rally was organized to protest against GST. The entire traders’ community stands united. We demand that the government keep the GST till yarn level. At present, the traders are staring at the losses to the tune of over Rs5,000 crore. It is a crucial time for business in view of upcoming Rakshabandhan and Durga Puja festivals in the country. But the traders are compromising on their businesses to fight against the GST.”
 
 Textile   convener  , who was dancing on the song criticizing GST on traders and Arun Jaitely, said, “You can hear the traders shouting slogans against Arun Jaitely. They are unstoppable and will not open their shops till the government comes up with a positive response.”
 
 “Police have made tight bandobast to ensure that no untoward incident takes place in the rally. We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 
