JAIPUR: The fall of Pink City in cleanliness ranking in the recently concluded   has attracted the attention of Centre.

  M Venkaiah Naidu, who was in the city to review   on Tuesday, said that he was disappointed at Jaipur dropping to 215 position in the Swachh Sarvekshan Survey 2017.
 
 “I was disappointed to see the ranking (Jaipur). Only Bundi from the state was at 171 position (under 200). Jaipur could not make it,” Naidu said at a press conference.
 
 The Union minister, who represents the state in Rajya Sabha, said his department has reviewed the situation to ensure improvement in the city's upkeep. “The officers have promised to work to make all the cities clean,” he said.
 
 During his visit, Naidu reviewed the six ongoing schemes under urban development ministry in state and found the work “Satisfactory”.
 
 “In the recent Swachh Survekshan, urban areas of the state have got low rankings. This was on account of the higher weightage given for the ODF status achieved. It was told that 20 cities and towns of the total 190 in state have been declared ODF. CM has assured that with Atal Mission and Smart City Mission in the state now being on course, her focus now would be on cleanliness in urban poor and all the 190 cities and they would be made ODF at the earliest,” he added.
 
 After reviewing the waste to energy project, he said, the work for setting up plants in Jaipur and Jodhpur will start in August and partners for these projects have been identified and power purchase agreements are being worked out. The Union minister advised the state government to ensure effective liaison between cities and nearby cement factories to that solid waste is used as an alternate fuel. Also, agriculture department should promote large scale use of compost derived from solid waste.
 
 Naidu has released funds of Rs 206 crore, including Rs 184.83 crore for Swachh Bharat Mission and Rs 21.38 crore for National Urban Livelihoods Mission.
 
 The minister applauded state’s effort for implementing all six urban missions, including the Hertiage City Development and Augmentation Yojana ( HRIDAY) in competition with 11 states.
 
 Underground pedestrian way in Walled City: After receiving a proposal from chief minister Vasundhara Raje to construct an underground pedestrian way in the heritage Walled City, Naidu directed to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for which funds can be released by the Centre under counter magnet city grants.
 
