Nagpur: Usually considered a tough paper, HSC’s   subject threw up a surprise on Monday.

 Analysing the paper, Vinayak Bhujade, a member of Maths Teachers Association for Junior College, said that questions were straightforward and easy.
 
 “Section 2 usually comprises long questions and also tricky ones, but those were also familiar. Nothing was unusual or say out of syllabus. It all depends on how you practised,” he said.
 
 Student Meenal Tikale was very happy with her performance. She said, “The paper was very easy and totally straightforward. I was so scared before the paper. But the time I saw the paper, I was relieved. Right from short questions, especially objectives, to the long ones, everything was easy. After physics, which was very tough, this paper was much better.”
 
 Meenal said some of the long questions were tricky, but she was fine with it. “It would have been great if there was some more time. Then, I would have been able able to attempt all the questions,” she added.
 
 Another student who did not wished to be named said the paper was not at all good as he had not prepared for it. “The most disappointing thing was that I found the paper easy, but I was unable to solve all the questions due to lack of study. Also, I was unable to remember the steps. But it was my fault,” he added.
 
 Purva Gattani and her brother Priyansh both found the paper easy. Purva said, “The paper was very good and all the questions were familiar. I even managed to get 10 minutes for checking. Long questions were lengthy but I had already divided time accordingly.”
 
 Priyansh said he solved all the questions and also finished paper before time. “Digits were changed but the method was similar. So, everything was from the textbook. I am expecting good marks this time,” he said.
 
 Another student Himja Bisht said her paper was neither too good nor bad. “It was an OK one, above average I should say. I solved what I practised. But yes, it was definitely much better than physics. I am relieved,” she added.
 
 (Reporting by Megha Tiwari)
 
 
