HYDERABAD: Central government-owned   (PFC) has agreed to provide Rs 4,009 crore financial assistance to fifth phase of the Yadadri Ultra Mega Thermal Power Plant. With this, funds for the 4000 MW project have been secured. Officials of the PFC handed over a letter in this regard to   at Vidyut Soudha on Friday. The Yadadri project is being set up in   comprising five units, each having a capacity of 800 MW with super critical technology. The Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) is providing the Rs 16, 950 crore needed for the first four units. Including the fifth unit of Yadadri, the PFC's financial assistance to Transco and Genco has touched Rs 28,210 crore.To overcome environmental concerns, the Telangana Genco has asked  , the engineering-procurement-construction contracting agency, to install low emission and less polluting devices including flue-gas desulfurization (FGD) and electrostatic precipitators (ESP)s in the project.

 Sources said the BHEL has agreed to install advanced environmental-friendly equipment in this project to meet the guidelines stipulated by the Centre.
 
 According to Prabhakar Rao, the Yadadri plant would be crucial for irrigation projects, supply of 24x7 quality power to the farm sector and to handle future requirements. The first two units of Yadadri are likely to come up in the next two years. “The Yadadri thermal project is one of the two major projects planned by the Telangana Genco to make the state selfsufficient in power generation. I am confident that Telangana will become a power surplus state soon,“ Prabhakar Rao told TOI.
 
 The thermal power project is one of the two power projects announced by the TRS government after the formation of the state. Chief minister   had laid the foundation stone for the Yadadri project on June 8, 2015.
 
 In all, about 2,800 acres have been acquired for the project, of which 2,095 acres is forest land and 704 acres patta and government land. At a cost of `17,950 crore, BHEL is expected to complete the project in 48 months from the date of receiving approvals.
 
