Big moment | 23 students from city receive scholarships to join dream courses in France

 Chandigarh: Stepping closer to their Freudian dreams and   fantasies, 23 students from the city landed scholarships here on Tuesday that will take them to different postgraduate courses in France.
 
 Most of the   winners are engineering students, who received this foreign help during Chandigarh round of the ‘Beinvenue en France 2017’ pre-departure orientation session and award ceremony in 10 Indian cities between June 29 and July 11. Of the students, 15 won the Charpak scholarship for master’s programme, which carries a monthly stipend of 615 euros along with assisted accommodation. Eight students get to study in   public universities free of cost.
 
 The interactive and instructive session educated the students about the visa application procedure, accommodation in France, and daily life in Europe, besides the French culture and language. “France attracts many Indian students every year for higher studies, and to take this number to 10,000, it offers a year’s extended stay for acquiring professional experience,” said Vidya Suresh, country manager of ESIGELEC (The École supérieure d'ingénieurs en génie électrique, a French school of engineers located in Rouen).
 
 The engineering and management students were positive about the decision to choose France for higher studies. Robin Prinja, selected for Universite de Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, will study   Mechanism for a year. “This public university is one of the most prestigious in the world. It was to explore its culture that I chose France as my master’s course destination,” Prinja said.
 
 Arti Kalra, picked for Institut superieur de l’aeronautique et de l’esapace, Toulouse, said: “Being the hub of aerospace science, France is the best destination for my master’s programme in aerospace engineering.” Ayush Jain, who won a Charpak scholarship for EDHEC Business School in Paris, said: “If you want a good cultural mix and global exposure, go to France.”
 
 Rashika Jain, who got full tuition-fee waiver along with a monthly stipend of 615 euros under Charpak scholarship for master’s in aerospace engineering at Toulouse, said: “It is my childhood dream to become an aerospace engineer. I am lucky to pursue it through a prestigious university.” The selection was based on academic grades, skills, and talent.
 
 
