Trichy: Friday’s job fair conducted by the district employment office turned out to be a successful platform for job aspirants, especially the differently-abled, to launch their career in private companies. The job mela also provided an idea on the employment opportunities available for the special people.

 Out of the 58 physically-challenged people who participated in the mela held at Seva Sangam School in Cantonment, 11 candidates got placed on the spot in eight companies - Mahindra and Mahindra Insurance, Vasu Garments, New Life Service Centre, Anjappar Hotels, Worth Industries, Orbit for the Visually Challenged Oxford Catering Institute and Airtel. They were recruited in various sections including mechanical, catering, tele-calling and tailoring.
 
 Unlike previous years, more companies offered employment to differently-abled who had qualifications ranging from SSLC to master’s degree. “Job opportunities for the differently-abled are abundant nowadays with many companies overlooking their disability, since many of them are skilled. At Friday’s job fair, several companies were interested in recruiting them based on their qualification,” joint director (in-charge) of district employment office V Vasudevan told TOI. The salary offered to them ranged between Rs 7,000 and Rs 18,000 and the candidates were satisfied as they preferred jobs in their home town. 
 
 The district employment office had sent call letters to to around 800 candidates for the job fair, out of which 636 candidates participated from Trichy and its surrounding villages. A total of 102 candidates including 11 differently-abled persons received the placement order.
 
 While there was stiff competition among people with post-graduate degree, the fair also witnessed private companies recruiting candidates with lower qualifications like 10th, 12th, ITI training and diploma.
 
 Many candidates who turned up for the camp were ready to join the private companies until they got a government job. “Graduates who want a government job either take up competitive examination or wait for an opportunity. The candidates who appeared for the camp came forward to join private companies until their turn for a government job came,” said Vasudevan. 
 
 
