MADURAI:  , 19, says that she hopes to work in a bank, something she could not dream of six years ago when she was a   She has secured 1037/1200 in the recently-held Class XII examination the results of which were declared on Friday. 

 She is among 640 former child labourers who were rescued in   between 2009 and 2010 by the volunteers of National Child Labour Project and enrolled in regular school about six years ago. Channelising their energy towards studies, several of these children have now scripted a remarkable success story. Aged just 12, Munieswari was found making cases for fireworks at her home when the authorities reached there to enrol her in the special training centres of  . Later, she was enrolled in the regular stream at the government higher secondary school in Reserve Line. Her father S Velmurugan and mother continue to work in a fireworks unit in Lakshmiyapuram. 
 
 Munieswari was among the 30 former child labourers identified and brought into the regular school system by the NCLP who have passed the examination with flying colours. Like her, M Vetrikondan has secured 1053 marks with a percentage of 87.75 per cent and scored good marks in his subjects too. He says that he always wanted to do well in studies while rolling cracker cases at home. That was before his special tutor Mary identified and enrolled him in the special school at the age of seven. "My brother and sister were also enrolled in the special school. My brother completed his B.Sc in Botany but I would like to enter a prestigious institution like Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal college in Sivakasi and do my B.Com. But then I don't know if we can be choosers,'' he said.
 
 The National Child Labour Project (NCLP) is being implemented in Virudhunagar district since 1987. Children in the age group of nine to fourteen years are identified under the project from industries like match manufacturing, fireworks and brick kilns and imparted training at specialised centres till standard five. They attend school from their homes but attendance is ensured before being introduced into the regular school system from standard six where they pursue the  
 
