AHMEDABAD: It was a blind murder case for Durg police in Chhattisgarh for two years as it could not find   against the suspects.   then sought help of Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) in Gandhinagar to conduct   tests on two suspects earlier this year.

 The results helped police arrest three women, including the two who underwent polygraph and brain electrical oscillation signature (BEOS), tests at DFS on May 24. Durg police said that the prime accused  , 23, had hit the 65-year-old woman with an iron rod repeatedly on head and body leading to her death.
 
 As per Durg police, Siliya Bai, 65, a resident of Kundrapara area of Durg city, was found murdered on June 13, 2015 when her daughter Tarabai and other relatives returned home in the evening. There was no eye-witness and no evidences on the spot that could point towards one person. 
 
 Police, however, had doubt on Manju, daughter-in-law of Tarabai, who was living at her mother Uttara’s residence nearby as she was pregnant. She denied having any knowledge of the incident. Uttara and her relative Sonbai, who was living with her, also claimed ignorance. Tarabai had mentioned in her statement to police that there used to be an iron rod in the house which was missing.
 
 While Manju refused to undergo tests citing her pregnancy, the tests were performed on Uttara and Sonbai earlier this year in the form of structured questionnaires prepared on the basis of the points provided by the investigators. 
 
 “During the tests, the women confessed that they had knowledge of Siliya Bai’s murder and it was Manju who had killed her with the iron rod. The rod was hidden in Uttara’s residence. The reason for murder was Siliya Bai’s constant nagging which had irked Manju. She had attacked her with the rod and when she fell down after the assault, she strangulated her to death,” said a DFS official. Armed with the information, police confronted Manju after which she confessed to her crime and also recovered the murder weapon. 
 
