PUNE: A sugar co-operative employee allegedly strangled his wife and two daughters to death before committing suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan in his house at Telco colony, Duttanagar, Katraj, on Sunday. 

 The Bharati Vidyapeeth police identified the deceased as Deepak Sakahari Hande (42), his wife, Swati (35), and daughters Tejas (15) and Vaishnavi (12). Hande is suspected of having killed his family and then himself early on Sunday. The Handes, who were originally from Vankute village in Sangamner taluka of Ahmednagar district, were staying in Telco colony for more than two decades, police said. 
 
 While a suicide note found in the house did not reveal much about why Hande took the extreme step, the police believe he was frustrated with life.
 
 The family lived in one of the flats of a ground-plus-two-story apartment which Hande and his co-owned. Swati ran a beauty parlour at Dattanagar near their house, which was doing good business. Tejas was a tenth standard student of a prominent school located at Sadashiv Peth while Vaishnavi was in the fifth standard at an international school on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass.
 
 The incident came to light around 10am when a neighbour checked on them after being told by the milkman that their milk bag was lying unattended outside the flat. 
 
 Senior police officers, including assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar and senior inspector Vijaysinh Gaikwad, visited the spot.
 
 Pawar told TOI, “We have recovered a single page, five-line suicide note from the clothes Hande was wearing. The note mentioned that it was written at 5am on Sunday. We suspect Hande killed his wife and daughters while they were asleep.”
 
 Gaikwad said the note purportedly written by Hande is addressed to his parents, uncles and aunts. It states, “We were destined to live only this much. No one is responsible for our act.” 
 
 A diary, which Hande would use for noting down daily expenses, was also recovered from the house, police said. “What we could gather from it is that Hande owed Rs 64,000 to his friends and well-wishers. The loan amounts varied between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000. However, this loan does not seem to be the cause for the murders and suicide,” Gaikwad said.
 
 Police investigators said a Rs 100 note was found clenched in the fist of each deceased person and they had a ‘tilak’ (kumkum) on their foreheads.
 
 Hande’s brother lives in another half of the building on the first floor. The ground floor and second floor accommodation have been given out on rent.
 
 “On Sunday, Hande’s nephew visited his flat but got no response. The milk bag and newspapers were lying outside the door. Soon after, Hande’s brother and the other residents broke the glass window of the flat and saw Hande hanging from the ceiling fan. They called the police who broke open the door,” Gaikwad said.
 
 Hande’s neighbour, Ganesh Dhere, said he was a good man who stayed away from trouble. “He loved his daughters and was happy. I met him on Saturday evening and he did not look troubled or tense to me. The daughters were good in studies and the older one was preparing hard for her board examinations,” he said.
 
