HYDERABAD: A pack of good-quality   was only a phone call away in the city less than two months ago. This is not the case any more. Police crackdown in  , one of the largest sources of Hyderabad's supply of ganja, has created a   across the twin cities. 

 "Most ganja peddlers in the city buy the   in bulk, from various places in Andhra Pradesh. It is then transported to the city, mostly by road, and sold in packs of 1,000 or 500 in Hyderabad. Over the last two months, however, the phones of most of the peddlers in the city are unreachable," said a ganja addict who finally decided to settle for the lower-grade variety ganja sold by peddlers in Dhoolpet. 
 
 While many indulging in the contraband are found making the 'inevitable' trip to Dhoolpet, a few are taking longer trips in hunt for the contraband and flocking to places known for ganja cultivation. This includes places located on the outskirts of Rangareddy district and Zaheerabad in Sangareddy district.
 
 "The quality of ganja cultivated in farms and forest areas, located a few hundred kilometres away from Hyderabad, is a lot better than the quality of the same in Dhoolpet. Also, in Dhoolpet, one runs the risk of being supplied with ganja, spiked with other harmful materials," said another ganja addict who travelled more than 100km to procure ganja from a farm in Zaheerabad. 
 
 When TOI contacted the Hyderabad police, officials explained that the decision to keep a tight vigil in the districts surrounding Hyderabad was a way to cut the 'source' of ganja. Areas such as Sileru and G.Madugula in   and Malkangiri district in Odisha have been identified as the biggest 'sources' of ganja, said B. Limba Reddy, deputy commissioner of police of the Task Force for Hyderabad police. 
 
 "We discovered that arresting peddlers in the city was not having any effect on the ganja trade in Hyderabad. This is why we have decided to cut the supply at its source. It is mostly in areas with dense forest cover that ganja is cultivated. Peddlers in the city are simply transporters, who bring ganja into the city mostly in fancy private vehicles, so as not to raise any suspicions while on the road. While we have been working in this fashion for almost one year, it is in the last couple of the months that it has shown actual results," said Reddy, who overlooks the task force activities in the Central, West, and North zones of Hyderabad.
 
 
