PANAJI: The   (ISL) has put 199 players up for sale at the domestic player draft with annual salaries ranging from Rs 4 lakh to a mouth-watering Rs 1.10 crore. 

 Not, everyone will be sold, though. 
 
 With eight of the nine participating franchises retaining 16 players and franchises needing to have a minimum of 15 domestic players in their teams, a total of 134 players will be selected through the draft, leaving at least 65 of them nervous when the draft concludes in Mumbai on Sunday.
 
 The unselected players from the draft can be signed by clubs after the draft process as additional players. Each club is allowed to sign up to three additional players, only one of whom can be a foreign player.
 
 According to sources,   and   are the costliest players in the draft with both commanding a price of Rs 1.10 crore each. Interestingly, Eugeneson had negotiated hard with FC Pune City, who were keen on retaining him but not at that price, while Anas could not agree terms with Delhi Dynamos who believed his over Rs 1 crore price tag was unreasonable. Subrata Paul (Rs 87 lakh),   (Rs 75 lakh) and Arindam Bhattacharya (Rs 73 lakh, which includes Rs 9 lakh transfer fee for Pune City) are among the other highest grossers.
 
 Not every player will make a killing at the domestic player draft. The organizers have included a lot of unheralded players in the list with these younger players settling for Rs 4 lakh to Rs 6 lakh.
 
 "The list is not complete. A few players have been listed but their price has not been communicated to us as yet. Probably, the organizers are still negotiating with them, or with their existing clubs if they have no secured a release," said a franchise official.
 
 The franchises have been encouraged to spend freely at the domestic draft with no cap on spending. The ISL has a salary cap of Rs 12.5 crore for foreign players ­ excluding a marquee signing ­ and Rs 18 crore for the entire squad.
 
 Jamshedpur FC, the newest team owned by Tata Steel, will get the first pick in the first and second rounds of draft, in accordance with the guidelines, while Delhi Dynamos will get the second pick in the first round of the draft. FC Pune City will join in the second round having retained just one player, while Chennaiyin FC will only join the domestic draft in the fourth round.
 
 The ISL is being expanded to 10 teams for the first time since inception in 2014 and will kick off on November 18.
 
