PANAJI: Much like calculators are being used to answer certain exams today, the Internet, too, must be made use of, eminent educationist   said on Wednesday, even as he rued that teachers are preparing students to live in the 1920s. 

 Mitra, well-known for the 1999   experiment wherein   were allowed to access a computer embedded within a wall, was speaking at the 10th D D Kosambi  .
 
 Speaking on the future of learning, Mitra cited the example of the 18-year-old experiment which resulted in  , engaging in discussions and using the PC to discover the wonders of the Internet. Hole-In-The-Wall later travelled throughout India and the world. 
 
 Mitra condemned the system of examination that doesn’t allow students to talk to their neighbours or use any assistive technology. He went on to display an image of an office in the 1920s, which had rows of clerks monitored by a supervisor and juxtaposed it to a picture of Indian students answering exams.
 
 “The clerks must never question an instruction and under no circumstance be creative. The world used to need people like that to run the nation at that time. But later, a system was built to make billions of these identical clerks: called school,” he said. “Teachers follow the model of 1920s which is prone to memorization. But children have to grow up for this world which requires discussions, unsupervised groups and access to the Internet,” he said.
 
 He further added that learning becomes more efficient with the use of internet and groups. “If we use the internet 24x7, why should the examination be the only day in our life when we don’t use it?” he stressed.
 
 He also questioned the system of a degree. “I have a PhD in theoretical physics from 1979. I should be put through an exam every year to revitalize my degree. It must therefore be redefined and recharged every so often so that you can still call yourself somebody.”
 
 Stressing on the need to redefine subject areas, he said that comprehension, communication and computing need to be key concepts that include reading, writing and arithmetic. “We need a curriculum of questions, not facts; a pedagogy that encourages collaboration and use of the Internet, and an assessment that looks for productivity over process and method,” he said.
 
