
 
 Don’t go asking your fabric vendor at Mumbai’s Mangaldas Market for his best bolts of ‘greenery’ just yet. He’ll point to the bushes. Mr Vendor may not yet have tuned in to Pantone LLC, the global colour authority that declared Greenery to be the Colour of 2017 —“Nature’s neutral,” they call it. In a flowery note, Pantone says Greenery “is a fresh and zesty yellow-green shade that evokes the first days of spring when nature’s greens revive, restore and renew…” 
 
 Mr Vendor will soon catch up, because everyone else has. They’re rattling off colour names with the speed and savoir faire of a South Delhi parvenu itemising lipstick shades at Sephora. “I tried Nars’ Pink Cantaloupe, but it was Deep Aubergine for me.” So colour-savvy have we become, it’s almost anathema to call a red a red. “Are you colour blind? I said Cerise, not Carmine. It’s a cardinal sin if you can’t tell them apart. What! You can’t spot Cardinal!” 
 
 There are apparently 10 million distinguishable colours, and infinite iterations of them under varying conditions of light, viewing and surfaces. In the good old days of Vibgyor, we’d call the sea, the sky, and Sam Eagle from the Muppets, unitedly blue. An onion was pink, but pink was no ‘Onion’. Now Onion’s probably the colour of your kitchen. 
 
 Some extant colour names go centuries back —orange, which derives from the Sanskrit word for the fruit, narangi, transformed into the English word for colour by 1512. Prior to that the English word for orange was geoluhread, which literally translated into yellow-red. Try wrapping your tongue around that. 
 
 While colours are typically assigned alpha-numeric codes by different colour notation systems, you would hardly tell your confectioner you’d like an S 1050-R90B icing on your wedding cake. Try Robin Blue. 
 
 
  
 
 
 Today, our linguistic colour palette is as broad as our consumer culture — and a result of it. We are immersed in a rich retail experience that markets its multi-coloured wares to us. “The whole point of throwing 500 colours at you is to give you a sense of unlimited choice,” says Som Sengupta, founder of Zeppelin Design, a design consultancy in Delhi. He adds: “We’re living more and more in a media-immersed environment and are consuming a lot more of the larger popular culture, subconsciously absorbing carefully curated colour trends.”
 
 The globalisation of these trends creates a common colour vocabulary across cultures. Products ranging from cellphones to treggings hawk hues like Rose Quartz, Buttercup and Lilac Gray. Incidentally, the hot new ‘colour’ of 2016 was a blend of several: Ombré, the name for a colour gradient. Think Instagram’s new logo. Even wedding planners have been approached to plan colour schemes around it. 
 
 Traditionally, colour names were coined from distinct cultural experiences, and were often colloquially unique. “The Oriya ‘Godhuli’, for example, is suggestive of gold dust, and refers to the dust rising up in the evening sunlight from the feet of cattle as they return from pasture,” says linguist and author, Dr Mahendra Kumar Mishra. Then there are the colour variants: “Khair is maroon, the colour of the paste added to paan; Rakat lal, the colour of blood, and Bim lal, the colour of the Bimba fruit (an ivy gourd) and used to describe the colour of a woman’s lips, ” he continues. “There must be at least a dozen names for red, blue, and green, the dominant colours in Orissa,” he points out. Urbanisation has supplanted these indigenous colour-names with English words, so a child no longer says she wants a shade of Jam-kala but simply ‘black’. Soon, it may even be Vantablack — the newly developed ‘blackest black’ cornered by sculptor Anish Kapoor. 
 
 Colour names in the market are meant to evoke a sense of colour and product personality. Francois Nars, founder of the eponymous cosmetic company, explains his choice of titles: “I wanted them (women) to remember the product. It’s no longer just a tube of lipstick — it’s a movie or a character that you can identify with, a destination you travel to through products and colours.” Makes you wonder what British paint company Farrow & Ball had in mind when they named a shade ‘Elephant’s Breath’! 
 
 Back home, paint brands like Kansai Nerolac say they’ve observed consumers across urban and rural arears requesting for out-of-the box shades for their walls other than the usual primary colours. “For example, we introduced Wild Berries last year (inspired by Bor — wild fruit) which is a variant of Burnt Brick,” says Ram Mehrotra VP Sales and Marketing, Decorative Paints at Nerolac, “This colour is grounded in our culture and crafts — from the red soil of the Western Ghats, to traditional Indian pottery and the sloping roofs of South of India.” 
 
 Of course, your teal could be my turquoise. Colour perceptions can vary (and vary vastly in case of colour blindness). Enter colour-naming apps. As far back as 2007, computer science graduate from Rutgers, Chirag Mehta, created Name That Color. “Being a typical guy, I have no clue what the colours lavender and mauve look like. You can show me indigo and I won’t know if it’s more like violet or purple. So I made this little app,” he says. So you can tell your Japonica from your Mojo. 
 
 That day of spontaneous discernment may soon arrive. But there are some who’ll continue to share David Suchet’s prosaic sentiment regarding colour. In an episode of Hercule Poirot, a smitten Hugh Fraser as Hastings turns to Suchet’s Poirot blubbering about the colour of a woman’s eyes. “Have you seen anything like it?” he asks, “I can’t quite place the colour.” To which a po-faced Poirot replies, “The colour, my friend, is called blue."
 
