NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) ruling party leader   has said that action will be initiated against private water operator   Water Private Limited ( ) for the increase in water arrears since it was handed over water works five years ago. He has also proposed to bring in a five-year demand note for property tax instead of one year.

 The NMC launched   for defaulters of property tax and water bills on Monday. Joshi said 1,108 property taxpayers defaulters paid arrears of Rs76.12 lakh on the first day. Also, 1,202 water consumers paid arrears of Rs40.24 lakh.
 
 “It being the first day of the scheme, the response was less. We will stage Gandhigiri on Tuesday and Wednesday in front of the defaulters’ properties. We have selected 10 defaulters of property tax and water bills each,” said Joshi.
 
 As part of the Gandhigiri, the NMC will erect a banner in front of the properties of the defaulters. “Drums will be played and roses presented to them,” said Joshi.
 
 Saying that OCW cannot escape responsibility for the mounting water tax arrears, Joshi said, “Its officials as well those from the NMC’s water works department should have collected it.”
 
 Joshi said property taxpayers should not wait for demand notes to be issued by the NMC and pay the tax at the start of the fiscal year. “The tax system has been revised in the current fiscal as per the new ready reckoner-based system. Now tax will remain unchanged for the next five years. I have asked the civic chief to issue a single demand note for the next five years,” he said.
 
 Joshi also said an FIR will be registered against the defaulters if their cheques get dishonoured. “Cheques of around 350 persons who availed amnesty scheme last year were dishonoured. We have given a last chance to them too,” he added.
 
 The NMC released names of 10 defaulters of property tax and water bills for Gandhigiri. The list included Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd. However, the NMC’s PRO department called TOI in the evening and asked the name of Tata Realty be deleted as it is not a defaulter.
 
