MUMBAI: The   has decided to rework norms for   of old and   in the city, chief minister   said in the   on Wednesday. The decision comes against the backdrop of the  .

 While replying to an adjournment motion moved by the opposition, Fadnavis said the government has decided to include a special provision in the   (DCR) for redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in the city and suburbs. He also said the co-operation department has decided to give deemed conveyance to societies that do not have an occupancy certificate so that they can benefit from the redevelopment schemes, which currently they cannot.
 
 "There are several societies in the city that will not get an OC, so they cannot get deemed conveyance, because of which their redevelopment too is stuck. We are in the final stage of formulating the new deemed conveyance rules. This will help redevelopment of many such societies to speed up," said Fadnavis. Nearly 5,000 societies in the city will benefit from the new rule, said officials. 
 
 The CM said in the new rules will also have a provision for tenants to appoint a builder for redevelopment of a building if the owner doesn’t.
 
 Fadnavis said that prima facie damage to the columns and beams of the ground floor nursing home owned by a Sunil Shitap was the reason for the building collapse. "The photos that the fire brigade has taken clearly shows damage to the beams and columns. However, investigations are being conducted and if proved then action under sections of culpable homicide will be invoked on the accused," said Fadnavis. He said that the licence of the nursing home had expired earlier this month. And its owner was renovating it. 
 
 Members of the assembly said it takes a lot of time for BMC to give permission for minor repairs and renovation, so people start work without permission. “Now renovation and minor repairs will be given permission online. If the application has a certification from an architect and structural consultant that the renovation will not have a bearing on the structure, then permission will be given in 24 hours,” said Fadnavis. He also said that if anything happens to the building due to repairs then the certifying consultant will be held responsible.
 
 He further said a new system for removal of encroachment was being put in place in BMC to keep a track of the work— from the time a complaint about illegal construction is filed till it is removed. “This will provide for fixing of responsibility on the officers,” said Fadnavis.
 
 BJP MLA Raj Purohit said there were many illegal structures in his constituency but complaints to the BMC fell on deaf ears. “And then you have people like Shitap who have a revolver so people are scared to complain,” he said. Purohit also said that residents were reluctant to move out of old buildings because they had no assured alternative accommodation.
 
 The Shiv Sena’s Sunil Prabhu struck a cautious note. “We need to probe why the building collapsed. If Shitap is found guilty after the probe, we will not defend him,” he said.
 
 He also said that the BMC had not received any written complaint about the alleged illegal alterations carried out by Shitap. Prabhu also said that the state needed a new law which would assure people who vacate dilapidated cessed buildings that they would be accommodated once again in the same building.
 
