JALANDHAR: With a few days remaining for Punjab polls, the political discourse has suddenly shifted from development to  .

 Initially, the SAD-BJP combine had claimed that development would be its main poll plank ‘as Punjab witnessed an unprecedented development during the 10 years of its tenure’. But with AAP presence looming large in the polls, leaders of the ruling parties have started raking up issues of national security.
 
 Though earlier it was just Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal who would accuse AAP of colluding with radicals or separatist forces, the issue was pushed into the centre stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi (in his election rally on Sunday) underlining how election in Punjab is important for national security.
 
 He laid special emphasis on communal harmony even as there have been no instances of communal tension. “It is not just Punjab’s election, but it’s an election for nation’s security as well,” the PM said. 
 
 “If a government of outsiders (read AAP) or those who are used to lavish and leisure life style (read Congress government led by Captain Amarinder Singh) come to power, then not only Punjab will suffer but entire country will also pass through a phase of danger. For security of India, elect a government which can guarantee national security also,” he said in his address.
 
 Incidentally, when the issue of drugs was at the centre stage just after parliamentary elections in 2014, Sukhbir Badal led dharnas near the border alleging that it was BSF which was responsible for stopping smuggling and Punjab Police had no role in guarding the borders.
 
 BJP president Amit Shah on Monday also linked the issue of national security with Punjab elections. 
 
 Sukhbir Badal used more explicit words to target AAP. He not only accused AAP chief   of staying at a “terrorist’s house” –– who had actually been acquitted by a court and had leased out his house to somebody –– in Moga, but also said that Kejriwal visited the residence of R P Singh, a leader of Akhand Kirtani Jatha, which he said was political front of Babbar Khalsa. Interestingly, the jatha was founded by Bhai Randhir Singh –– a freedom fighter who was also charged for waging a war against the British –– who passed away in 1961 while Babbar Khalsa was founded between 1978 and 1980.
 
 R P Singh had also been participating in meetings convened by chief minister Parkash Singh Badal with leaders of Sikh groups spearheading release of Sikh prisoners who had completed their life terms. 
 
 Union minister Harsimrat Badal had accused AAP of mingling with those “terrorists and radicals” who were behind desecration of temples and gurdwaras in early 1980 and killed innocents. She said two youths who were arrested by the police in Bargari sacrilege case had also extended support to AAP. Incidentally, Punjab Police did not press charges against these two youths after arresting them and after quite a few months of probe, Punjab government shifted the case to CBI which has yet to come out with a report. 
 
 Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh too has accusing Kejriwal of colluding with radicals. 
 
 On Tuesday, Punjab BJP president Vijay Sampla termed Kejriwal as leader of traitors while SAD general secretary and MP Prem Singh Chandumajra termed him a CIA agent.
 
 “This is height of desperation and SAD-BJP leaders are not even able to hide it. There was no communal tension when thousands of Sikhs were on roads after Bargari sacrilege incident and subsequent firing on protesters in October 2015. These are the recent statements by SAD-BJP and Congress leaders who are trying to polarize the state,” said author and political commentator Gurbachan Singh.
 
