Pune: The surcharge on revenue stamps would come as a relief to the Pune Municipal Corporation vis-à-vis its losses in income this fiscal following the downward revision of the   subsidy.

 The state government would give the corporation Rs55 crore as surcharge on the stamps. A government resolution (GR) was issued in this regard on Thursday.
 
 The state government announced that it would disburse Rs218 crore as “surcharge payment” to municipal corporations. Pune would get the highest share. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, the state government gives 1 % of the total revenue generated from the revenue stamps’ fee collection as the surcharge.
 
 “As many as 25 municipal corporations will benefit from the funds. Pune will get Rs55 crore, while PCMC (Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation) will get Rs33 crore. Thane will get Rs24 crore,” said Vivek Kumbhar, a senior official of the urban development department in the GR.
 
 It stated around Rs1,000 crore had been set aside in the municipal budget for 2016-17 to pay the surcharges to the corporations. Of it, around Rs647 had been paid.
 
 The civic body collected LBT (Local Body Tax)) between 2013 and 2015, wherein 60,000 traders were taxed. On August 1, 2015, the state government had partially introduced LBT in the state for traders whose turnover was more than Rs50 crore. Earlier, the tax was levied on those earning more than Rs5 lakh per year. After partial abolition, only around 300 traders pay the tax.
 
 The LBT subsidy was introduced to meet the losses caused because of the drop in the number of taxpayers. PMC was getting around Rs78 core per month as subsidy. It will go down by Rs15 crore following the cut, effective from the last month. The PMC would suffer a loss of about Rs45 crore this fiscal because of the subsidy cut.
 
 The state government had introduced LBT after abolishing the octroi system in all the civic bodies except Mumbai. The decision was implemented on April 1, 2013, but traders objected to it with strong demonstrations in the city.
 
 
