KOLKATA: A centralized placement could soon replace campus recruitment across private and government engineering colleges in the state. Considering the dismal state of campus placements,   Azad University of Technology — the university that has as affiliates all private engineering colleges in   — wants to put the new mechanism in place from the current academic session.

 It plans to introduce a centralized placement system through six nodal centres, apart from three placement offices in major metro cities outside Bengal. It is also set to flag off a staff training   on Haringhata campus and a soft skill training cell. A centralized placement mechanism will be developed based on six zones that will give an impetus to the hiring of budding engineers. 
 
 The centralized placement will be activated with the help of the Association of Professional Academic Institutions (APAI). 
 
 “There will be six centres acting as nodal agencies. In North Bengal, the centre will be at Siliguri Institute of Technology, in Howrah at Seacom Engineering College; Supreme Knowledge Foundation will be the zonal centre for Hoogly and Midnapore. At Nadia, the   will facilitate campus placements for technology colleges in North 24-Parganas as well as Nadia. The colleges at Asansol, Burdwan, Birbhum and Durgapur will hold placements at BC Roy Engineering College and the colleges in Kolkata will be assisted for placements by the university itself,” said Saikat Maitra, V-C of Maulana Abul Kalam   of Technology.
 
 The resources at the selected centres will be used to assist students during placements. “The major focus of the zonal centres will be district colleges, government colleges and some technology colleges in Kolkata. The placements will be expanded to the non-AICTE programs as well. There are several colleges with BBA, BCA, hospital management, hospitality management and media courses which can run only with the university’s approval alone. They will be benefited. There is a huge demand for such courses and in some cases it is even more than engineering graduates,” added a source.
 
 The main purpose of the zonal centres will be to make arrangements for bulk recruitment, as required, by the recruiters. Companies like TCS, WIPRO, Cognizant, CTS, Infosys and many PSUs offer jobs in bulk. They mostly approach the individual colleges or the parent university. In many cases, the required capacity of students can’t be mobilized. Hence, the jobs fall through. 
 
 In such cases, the zonal centres will act as facilitators.
 
 Another decision taken by MAKAUT was to set up regional placement offices in three major metros — Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. “We will make our pan-India presence felt,” pointed out the VC.
 
 
