Ayesha Begum, 25, gave birth to a baby boy within minutes of walking into Mila Chowdhuri Para camp in Teknaf in  . 

 She was in an advanced stage of pregnancy when everyone alive in her village in Myanmar’s   were forced to flee. As she struggled through the hilly terrain and jungle tracts, she constantly worried about the fate of the life she was carrying in her womb. Now, 11 days after a healthy boy has been delivered, the worries have not ceased. Like her, the child has been condemned to a stateless existence.
 
 Not just her, an estimated 16,000 unborn children face the same fate. That is how many pregnant   women are believed to have crossed into   from Myanmar since August 25. “On an average, we have been performing two deliveries and attending to 65 mothers in advanced stage of pregnancy,” said Tania Akhter, a midwife working at the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)’s sub-centre at Balukhali, Ukhia.
 
 While Bangladesh has extended support to over 4 lakh Rohingya refugees, the country has refused to grant citizenship to children born to them. Constitution experts in Bangladesh reasoned that the country’s Citizenship Act, 1951, does not have the provision of citizenship based on birth. US and Canada are the only first world countries that provide unconditional citizenship to children born in the territory. In the subcontinent, only Pakistan grants citizenship on the basis of birthplace. 
 
 In Bangladesh, those who were permanent residents before the country was formed on March 26, 1971, are citizens. So are children born of a Bangladeshi woman. If the identity of parents of a child in Bangladesh is unknown, it is assumed to be born to Bangladeshi nationals and granted citizenship. Bangladesh also offers citizenship through naturalization. 
 
 Bangladesh I&B minister Hassan-ul-Haq Inu said: "We are going by the Citizenship Act which mandates that if parents are of foreign origin or they are in Bangladesh for diplomatic purposes, their children will not be granted citizenship by birth.” "We have therefore demanded that Rohingya refugees be repatriated to Myanmar and given citizenship by the country. This can only be done through a tripartite initiative of United Nations, Myanmar and Bangladesh," he added.
 
 That though appears unlikely in the near future as the refugees are so traumatized by the situation back home that they can't even imagine returning there. Nur Begum, 28, who gave birth to a girl is unwilling to risk her life and that of her child on the promise of citizenship.
 
 Tasnuba Nourin, a doctor working with the International Organisation for Migration (IMO) who has been attending to patients at the Mila Chowdhuri Para camp and delivered Ayesha's son, is more worried about the immediate needs of the mother and child: nutrition. 
 
 Samir Kumar Howlader, national programme officer (health) of IOM, the coordinating body for the agencies working at camps in Cox’s Bazar, explained the challenges for newborns. “Lactating mothers require iron and folic acid supplements. So they need a balanced diet after giving birth. In many cases they shift from one place to another and that makes it difficult for volunteers to monitor whether she is getting necessary food. Add to that the anxiety of the mother and vulnerability of the newborn to infections. These situations add up to make it tougher for the newborn,” Howlader said.
 
