 Panaji: Eleven untouched and less tread upon birding trails have been identified in Cotigao by the Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN) over the past year. Through these, the groupwhich has been surveying the area to sample information about various birdshas identified over 300 species so far. Birding trails are essentially routes with stops at places where birds of various kinds are most likely to be seen. Through the 11 new trails at the Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary, GBCN members have identified approximately 350 species of both, resident and migratory birds. GBCN secretary Rajiv D’Silva said the four-season data sampling process is under way to keep track of these trails. The process involves collection of information in summer, winter, monsoon, and fall. The first two seasons have been already covered. As a hotspot of ecology and biodiversity, some of these birding trails will be used during the upcoming Goa Bird Festival likely to be held in October.  Sources from the forest department said while the festival’s dates have not yet been fixed, it is expected to be held before the International Film Festival of India (Iffi). “The ongoing survey will help us get the best possible cross-section of birds when visitors go birdwatching. Some of these are tough trails and it won’t be possible to take the guests through all of them. We’ll possibly have three or four of these trails for the visitors according to our logistics,” D’Silva said. Besides giving visitors an opportunity to spot rare and beautiful birds, organisers are also contemplating setting aside a day during the three-day festival for Goa’s pelagic birdlife. Surveys done in the past by the GBCN before and after the monsoon revealed that a number of marine birds come close to the shore during this time, giving enthusiasts a visual treat. “Visitors are most likely to be taken from the Talpona jetty to Grande Island for spotting. If plans materialise, we will organise the festival for two days at the Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary and one day by the sea,” a forest official said.