Like any other burial ground, the one at  , too, has a pall of gloom clinging to it. But that doesn’t faze  , who is currently the caretaker of the graveyard. She goes about her job, dealing with the unruly behaviour of the local people who try to create ruckus inside the crematorium, and looking after the other activities.   chose this profession almost four years ago. “I hail from a middle-class family and got the job through the city-based NGO, Indian Community Welfare Organisation (ICWO). I had worked for the welfare of transgenders, HIV-affected people and other marginalised sections of society, whom the society cares for very little for. When I came to know about the vacancy of a caretaker in this graveyard, I immediately expressed my interest, in spite of many raised eyebrows. Their concern, mainly, was about a woman effectively handling a job which only tough and daring men could manage. But I proved them wrong,” says an elated Esther. 

 
 Esther asserts that unlike in earlier times, she has ensured complete professionalism in this job. She explains, “Earlier, many people used to bring bodies without prior information. After I took charge, I have made it clear that the concerned people should book in advance, so that each body gets a pre-allotted time. On an average, seven or eight bodies are brought here every day.” She says that though there are watchmen, gardeners and assistants, there isn’t any specific job assigned to workers here. “All of us do everything and work like a family. There have been times where I had to manage huge crowds single-handedly following the arrival of a body. Some people create a ruckus and come up with bizarre demands, like carrying out the rites at a time convenient to them. I have faced threats and abuses, though I now understand that it is part and parcel of this job. One of the major reasons why I could be successful in this profession is because of the support of the workers and a few people around. I want to keep this place as sacred as a temple, and will always strive to do that,” she says.
 
 
 
 Quite unsure of how they would take it, Esther didn’t have the courage to tell her family that she had taken up a job in a burial ground. In fact, it was only when one of her sons dropped her at the place one fine day that she opened up about it. “I didn’t know how my family would react. I was not that courageous, as I was scared of my husband or others asking me to resign. But they understood my intention to serve people, and agreed to it. I leave home at 7am and I am back home by 7pm. But it is almost 10pm by the time I am actually done with the work of maintaining the records and the paperwork. My family members, and I myself, are particular about taking a bath as soon as I reach home. I get vaccinated once in a year. My native is at  , but I stay at Vadapalani. Even today, many in my locality do not know that I work in a burial ground,” she laughs.
 
 
 
 A woman helming the cremation procedures is a rare sight, and it is this fact that sometimes has people taking advantage of the situation, passing sexist remarks, etc. She says, “I have had experiences where people who accompanied the body showed disinterest in talking about the procedures with me because of my gender. I have also been a victim of character assassination as people believe that a lady who works in a burial ground should obviously be ‘bad’. In fact, I lost six kilos due to stress in no time after choosing this job. But I never lent my ears to what others say, as I have never wanted to stoop down to the level of those prejudiced and uncultured people.”
 
 
 
 Despite the several odds, which have made her a bold woman, Esther, of late, has been receiving appreciation of people from different walks of life. According to her, the sense of satisfaction, too, is something which keeps her going. She smiles, “With great courage, I have spoken to a few anti-social elements and requested them to stop their practices. A few listen, while some do not realise that what they are doing is wrong. But I’m happy that I have changed a few people. We have installed six cameras to monitor the happenings in different parts of the premises. I get immense respect and trust from many people these days. The officers at G5 police station here have offered unconditional support, which has boosted my confidence.” 
 
 Esther adds that she has no plans to quit this profession even if she is offered a ‘safe’ job with a better salary. “From the moment I took up this job, this burial ground has become my responsibility. I have to do my duty in a satisfying way and win the hearts of all the people here,” she smiles heartily. Pointing at a few small pots carrying ashes which are kept in the store room, she says philosophically, “No matter how much a person achieves, no matter what life a person leads, he/she finally ends up inside this,” and signs off.
 
