VARANASI/LUCKNOW: Six days after the molestation of a girl student at BHU which led to violence on the campus, the   have not recorded the statements of the complainant--a pre-requisite to start investigations into the case.

 In-charge of Lanka police station SI Sanjiv Mishra claimed the crime took place on September 21 and the FIR was lodged the next day. 
 
 “Before we could reach out to the complainant, she had left for her home in Delhi on September 23,“ Mishra told TOI. 
 
 Though police were aware of the molestation and its fallout since September 21, the men in uniform did nothing to trace the culprits and waited for a formal written complaint, which reached them the next day. Police lodged an FIR but did nothing to arrest the accused who misbehaved with the girls.
 
 Protesting BHU students said police apathy had added to the crisis. 
 
 “Had police acted promptly against the accused on September 22, the situation would not have deteriorated to such an extent,“ said an undergraduate who is a classmate of the complainant in the molestation case.
 
 Though police claim to have questioned security guards present on the campus at the time of the crime, sources said their statements had not been recorded formally. Senior officers claimed it was because of the law and order situation on the campus and outside that the police failed to focus on investigations into the molestation case.
 
 Varanasi SSP RK Bhardwaj said now that the situation is under control, officers will focus on probe into the molestation case.
 
 “I have already transferred all the cases related to the BHU incident to the crime branch for speedy investigation,“ said Bhardwaj. 
 
 Police, however, were not sure if probe into the molestation case would gain momentum before BHU reopens on October 3 after the Dussehra break and whether students would return to hostels for regular classes. 
 
 DGP Sulkhan Singh said investigations into the case would be completed in time and guilty would be punished. 
 
 “We are confident we will be able to zero in on the accused and none of the guilty will be spared. It is just a matter of time before they are arrested,“ said the DGP.
 
