KOCHI: Dumping of pollutants has brought about a massive change in the quality of water in  , including Kochi backwaters. The entire estuary, which is also a  , has been affected, says a new study published in the   of Marine sciences.

 The study was done on water samples from the Vembanad Lake. “The water has been polluted by the sewage generated from the Kochi city, which contains high particulate organic matter discharges. Kochi city alone produces 2550 million litres per day of urban sewage. The waste enters the waters without any treatment,” said Professor Bijoy Nandan, school of marine sciences, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) who led the study.
 
 The Cusat team found that excessive supply of organic matter had disturbed the entire environment. “The process called eutrophication puts the system under stress. The most polluted were the southernmost and northernmost stations with the Kodungallur–Azhikode estuary on one end and Alappuzha on the other end,” he said.
 
 While the organic waste and agriculture waste increases nutrients in the coastal areas, it also leads to distressing events like fish kill. Though septic tank sewage systems are used in most parts, numerous toilet discharges are emptied openly into the estuary leading to direct faecal contamination.
 
 The unregulated operation of houseboats has altered the natural estuarine characteristics of the water body. Backwater tourism forms the backbone of the Kerala state’s major revenue source, in which Vembanad estuary contributes a major share. The sewage discharges from resorts, houseboats and exhaust from motor boats form an important source of biological and chemical pollutants. Vembanad estuary is being used by over 1.6 million people directly or indirectly for various purposes such as drinking, bathing, cooking, recreation, agriculture, fishing and transportation; waterborne diseases are very common in this region, especially in young children.
 
 Irrespective of the salinity variation, the increasing total coliform value indicates the prevalence and survival of multi-drug resistant enteropathogenic bacteria like Escherichia coli and Salmonella paratyphi that persist throughout the year in Vembanad estuary. Faecal contaminants from house boats, garbage from Alappuzha town and organic pollutants from nearby agriculture fields might be the predominant reasons for higher proliferation of coliform in southern region.
 
 
