KOLKATA: Is Bengal’s   changing from Ramakrishna to Rama? So it seems if one lends an ear to  , buses and tea stalls. They all begin with the concern over   sneaking into India and invariably end with Muslim bashing and the need for the Hindus to come together.

 Such a feeling fuels the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s plan to celebrate Ram Navami in the districts and the city for five days beginning with Lord Rama’s birthday on April 5. The programme will end with a rally in Kolkata on April 11 to mark Hanuman Jayanti. “Few people in Bengal know that April 5 is Lord Rama’s birthday. What’s wrong if we do it? This is not Pakistan,” said VHP media in charge of Bengal Sourish Mukherjee. VHP has appealed to the sadhus to come with their religious motif — Trishul along with religious Hindus from across the city, days after Srijato’s using Trishul as a metaphor in his poem created a controversy.
 
 Some of these yatras have been planned in areas — Kharagpur, Suri in Birbhum — that have witnessed communal flare ups in the preceding months, particularly after the Durga Puja. Even in Kolkata, rallyists coming to a Hindu Samhati gathering at Rani Rashmani Road had fanned up tension among communities on the southern fringes of the city.
 
 If you discount this as a “passing phase”, a saffron euphoria after the UP assembly polls, think again. It appears to be the build-up of a new narrative in which Hinduism stands for patriotism and secularism means Muslim appeasement. Unlike in 1992, when the city saw a surge in Hindu passions after the Babri Masjid demolition, the VHP’s rallying for Ram Janmabhoomi this time has got some sort of a legal and social sanction. It has touched the minds of a section of the educated middle class that feels insecure with the rise of jihadi Islam. The insecurity deepened after US president Donald Trump took some decisions like never before. 
 
 “This is true for a section of the middle class, but not all. It’s true that the other secular voice such as historian Tanika Sarkar to name some has an impact still, though on a much lower scale. The middle class is in disarray. Most of the times they go unheard,” said Presidency University emeritus professor Prasanta Ray.
 
 Problem is that the cultural nationalism espoused by the saffron has little space for the other view. “It is often said Muslims who do not respect the Bharat Mata should leave this country. I am an Indian and I make my students sing the national anthem daily. But some want us to sing Bande Mataram which I can’t enforce,” said a Muslim history teacher from a central Kolkata school. 
 
 Knee-jerk reactions to the saffron are only adding to the polarisation. A mindless change in the Bengali word Ramdhanu (rainbow) by the Mamata Banerjee government in a school textbook is one such instance. Environment lessons in Bengali in the government approved textbook for Class-III has changed the name of ramdhanu to rongdhonu to get rid of Ram. If this is one facet, the other move is just the reverse. The same school text of Class-X has raked up a political controversy saying that peasant leader Titu Mir who fought against the British “killed” many Hindus and destroyed several temples.
 
 
