HYDERABAD:   remains a big favourite of city folk who would prefer living in  .

 What are the factors that one needs to consider while buying a home? A house that comes under your budget, unit size that suits your requirements, adequate water and electricity supply, connectivity convenience, and closeness to social and physical facilities. Hyderabad's Marredpally covers all requirements and offers much more to the buyers.
 
 
 
 
 The locality is situated at a distance of 2km from Secunderabad and is known as a residential suburb in the city of Secunderabad. The locality is further divided into   and  . The main USP of the locality is its connectivity, affordability and the varied options it offers to buyers in both its West and East areas.
 
 
 
 
 
  East Marredpally is well connected with other parts of the city and within the city via E Marredpally road, Marredpally Tukaram gate main road. The area is close to Secunderabad cantonment Board at 2 km and NH 44 at 3 km distance.
 
 
 In terms of infrastructure, the area offers good education facilities via affiliated schools and colleges such as Government Institute of Electronics, Sri Chaitanya School, Government Institute of Printing Technology, Auxilium Primary School, etc. The social fabric also includes hospitals, grocery stores, petrol pumps and other day to day convenience stores.
 
 
 As per data, the area offers various housing options such as apartments, plots, builder floors, land and residential house.
 
 
 As per   data, buyers have rated the area 4.5 out of 5 on the basis of offering great environment to live, commuting facilities and infrastructure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 West Marredpally enjoys good connectivity though road ways and railways. The Hyderabad airport and nearest station is located between 2 to 5 km radius.
 
 
 The area is developed with the presence of parks, schools, hospitals, function halls, super markets and banks, says Ravi Kumar, a resident in the locality. Moreover, the presence of commercial markets such as Begumpet and the suburb, Thirumalgherry is also contributing to the rising demand.
 
 
 As per data, the area offers varied housing types such as apartments, residential houses, studio apartments, plots, residential houses.
 
 
 As per data, West Marred ally has been rated as 4.8 out of 5 which mean the environment, facilities, commuting facilities and physical infrastructure facilities.
 
 
 
 
 
