Aurangabad: Fed up with the non-availability of tap water in their locality for the past 12 years, residents of Sara Vibhav Colony at Harsul on Friday resorted to an agitation in front of the civic body’s main administrative block in the Town Hall area.

 Highlighting the pathetic condition of water supply in the colony, the residents, including housewives, demanded the municipal body to start regular supply before the summer. They also warned of more severe agitation from Monday if their demands were not met.
 
 Sara Vibhav Colony, with about 350 households, is one of the large number of housing colonies in the city where the civic authorities have not been supplying water. But what irked the residents most is the unavailability of tap water despite their proximity to the civic body’s water filtration plant at Harsul.
 
 “Our colony is barely 100 metre away from the plant; so, it is technically feasible for the civic authorities to supply water. But the authorities are neglecting the colony,” said Kishan Biradar, a local resident. 
 
 Another resident, Kailash Sutekar, said all the residents are regular tax payers but the civic body has been failing to provide water. “We are solely dependent on a private well in the area but its water is not safe for drinking. All residents in the colony have to buy filtered water (for drinking) from private suppliers, which is burning a hole in their pockets,” he said. 
 
 Yogita Gaikwad, a housewife, said she has to spend more than Rs 1,200 per month on water. “We arrange water through tankers every three to four days. It is a costly affair. Lack of water has become a main cause of worry for all of us. It is going on for the past 12 years but the municipal corporation is doing nothing,” she said. 
 
 Despite of repeated attempts, Sartaj Singh Chahel, in charge of water supply and executive engineer in the civic body, could not be contacted. However, a senior official in the AMC told TOI that the due to lack of infrastructure and shortage of water, the civic body is unable to supply tap water in many localities, including Sara Vibhav Colony. 
 
 
