MUMBAI: In the biggest-ever action to be taken against obstacles in the flight path of aircraft that enter and leave the Mumbai airport, India's   regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has ordered about 70 buildings in surrounding Vile Parle, Santacruz and Ghatkopar to reduce their height in 60 days flat. This list of “obstacles“ includes not just relatively new buildings but quite a few two storey ones that were built over 50 years ago, reveal notices issued by the DGCA in June. Most of the old buildings have copies of height clearance certificates issued by the then relevant authority (the government-controlled Airports Authority of India or AAI started giving no-objection certificates only in 1978).Most new buildings on the list have bigger portions to demolish as they are taller. The orders were issued on different dates in June and the deadlines would be in August.

 Another 45 buildings, which also have NOCs for height, might be served similar notices as it has now emerged these were fraudulently issued by certain AAI officials.
 
 The old buildings have been ordered to reduce height by anywhere between 1 and 6 metres, the newer and taller ones by a lot more.
 
 The order, which comes after the Bombay high court asked DGCA to submit a list of obstacles in the flight path, threatens to render thousands of residents, many of them senior citizens, homeless. Representatives of 10 buildings gathered in Vile Parle last Thursday to discuss future course of action. They said they were all residents of two-storey structures constructed in the 1960s--about 20 years after the Mumbai airport, with its two cross runways and one terminal building, was built in the neighbourhood to serve a city of four million residents, less than a quarter of its current population.
 
 For five decades, they had received no communication from the government, they said. In 2016, they got a DGCA letter seeking information on building height, distance of the building from the Aerodrome Reference Point (ARP), date of construction, etc. All these years, living next to the airport had only meant suffering the intermittent high-decibel roar of jet engines, but now they have been forced to grapple with technical terms like ARP and   (Inner Horizontal Surface), they said. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has ordered about 70 buildings in Vile Parle, Santacruz and Ghatkopar to cut their height in 60 days flat as they are “obstacles“ in the path of flights coming into and leaving the city's airport. Some of the buildings have only two storeys.
 
 All along, the perception of those living in the smaller and older buildings was that the taller, newer constructions around the airport were the obstacles and not the two-floor structures which were anyway surrounded by “bigger obstacles“ like the Milan flyover and even many palm trees which are taller than their buildings. “I've been staying here from 1967. Why is it that they have suddenly found my building to be an obstacle?“ asked a senior citizen. “Where can we go? Is it possible for us to buy a new flat at our age?“ said another. “Can our old buildings withstand demolition by   to 6m? If they collapse after demolition, who will bear the responsibility?“ said a third. The questions were many . (They requested that they not be named in this report.) In June 2014, advocate   questioned the NOCs issued by AAI to certain builders in a public interest litigation filed in the high court. The petition cited the example of Chouhan Builders' 11 buildings in Khetwadi, Santacruz, built on 21 acres, with the closest plot located 668 metres or about six seconds away by aircraft from Mumbai airport's main runway . The allegation was that AAI had fraudulently allowed four metres' extra height to each building. Before the plea, the CBI had in 2011 begun an inquiry into NOCs obtained by the same builder. It was common knowledge in aviation circles that there were many other buildings with heights that violated aviation safety norms.
 
 Addressing this issue, the petition said: “AAI has given illegal height clearance for about 200 buildings in vio lation of their own and DGCA   safety regulations.The illegal height clearance has resulted in conversion of the Mumbai airfield into a `minefield'... If any of the aircraft crashes into any of these buildings, the result will undoubtedly be catastrophic... Even a small overrun by an aircraft, as has happened in Mangalore, will result in deaths of thousands of people living in the slums of either side of Mumbai runway .“
 
 In the hearings that followed, the respondents, Mumbai airport's former owner AAI and the current operator, Mumbai Airport Pvt Ltd (MIAL) along with the DGCA were asked to submit a list of obstacles along with action taken. On June 13, DGCA submitted an affidavit stating that AAI and MIAL had submitted a list of 137 obstacles. Based on the list, DGCA issued final orders to 35 building to reduce height; 38 buil dings were to be given a hearing before issue of final orders; and then there were 45 other buildings. These would be dealt with according to AAI norms, the regulator said.
 
 A few days after the affidavit was submitted, J S Rawat, DGCA joint director ge neral, gave a hearing to representatives of 38 buildings and these were issued final orders in June to reduce height. In the coming weeks, more such notices are expected. Rawat was not available for comment.
 
 But a major issue is that the list of obstacles submit ted to the HC doesn't tell the full story. Shenoy , the petitioner, said, “They have only submitted the list of the tallest obstacles among a cluster of obstacles. So if one has to calculate the actual number of obstacles within the approach path and out of it, it would be in thousands.“ GoSoft, a private firm, was commissioned in 2015-16 by the airport operator to do a survey of obstacles in the approach path and beyond it.
 
 S Mangala, AAI DGM, aviation safety, western region, said: “The GoSoft study with the full list of obstacles hasn't been submitted to co urt yet. That would have brought transparency and revealed which are the buildings that have received demolition notices and why , and whether there are any that have been left out. Also, there are many more obstacles outside the approach funnel.“
 
 Lack of transparency has been a big issue. A resident of a two-storey building that came up in 1964 said: “The DGCA notice orders us to demolish 3.6m from the top floor. But in the airport operator's 2010-2011 survey , only 0.10m was listed as an obstruction. Then again, in their 2015-2016 survey , our building doesn't feature on the list of obstruction surfaces at all. We pointed it out during the hearing and they (DGCA) had nothing to say .“
 
 The residents have just a few more weeks before their deadlines come to pass. “We can't even afford to hire expensive lawyers to fight the case,“ a resident said.
 
 
 
 
 There's no reason why residents of so many buildings should lose their homes for no fault of theirs. Even if some of the NOCs were issued fraudulently by AAI officials, t's those officials who must be held to account and not those who bought flats there.And how is it that 2-storey structures standing for over half a century are suddenly deemed as `obstacles'?
 
