NEW DELHI: A   was arrested for mowing down a Class XII student with his Mercedes in Mianwali Nagar. Savneet Singh (27) was picked up from his house along with his cousin Hashmeet (26) who was present that night in the car that Singh drove.

 “Singh has admitted to hitting the teenager and then hiding the car at a friend’s house,” said joint CP (crime) Praveer Ranjan. 
 
 Singh owns a furniture shop named Jeet Furnitures at Rajouri Garden and stays with his parents at Meera Bagh. Hashmeet works at a BPO in Cyber City, Gurgaon.
 
 Singh told the police that he had gone to GH market on Sunday night with Hashmeet for food and drinks. While returning home, he had received a call from someone about a fire at his shop. Singh hurried back. He overtook a goods vehicle from the left and rammed the scooter of Atul Arora who was coming from the opposite side. Arora’s head got smashed against the windscreen of the Mercedes but he held onto the bonnet. “But instead of stopping, Singh sped on due to which Arora fell on the road. He could have been saved had the car stopped,” said DCP Madhur Verma. 
 
 The cousins then drove into an open plot where they first relieved themselves, and then removed the rear numberplate and put it in the boot. They then drove to the house of Gurpreet Singh, the friend, and parked the car. The cousins then phoned another friend and asked him to take them home. Singh stopped at his shop midway and went home only around 2am. 
 
 Singh told his family about the incident the next morning when he saw it on TV news. His father Dharwinder Singh said the family was sad about the whole episode and he had asked his son to surrender. 
 
 So, how did the police crack the case? They traced down a Mercedes matching the description given by witnesses and which, too, had met with an accident. Then the crime branch was alerted about another similar car being parked at a colony in Rajouri Garden. The police traced the history of the car and found out that it was a second-hand vehicle purchased a year ago. Singh was traced and arrested along with Hashmeet. 
 
 The duo was handed over to the Mianwali Nagar police station, who were trying to find out if Singh was drunk at the time of the accident. Charges of causing death due to negligence and destruction of evidence were slapped on both cousins. 
 
 
