NEW DELHI: The   government will showcase   as a revolutionary step that helped uproot corruption, black money and terrorism in the run-up to its third-anniversary celebrations.
 
  The government is also planning a meticulous offensive in an attempt to tackle the Opposition with statistics on its achievements. As first reported by ET on March 30, the government is not shying away from counting demonetisation as an achievement. The literature being prepared would talk about demonetisation as a step taken to ensure corruption-free good governance. “A revolutionary step where entire nation came together to uproot the cancer of corruption, black money and terrorism,” reads the note prepared on demonetisation. “It broke the backs of the corrupt and those who threatened national security,” it says.
  
 
  
  The Modi government is also preparing 10-odd booklets, which would be used by BJP to take the message to the masses, to disseminate how it had improved governance across board. The booklets would be on decisive, bold and action-oriented governance; corruption-free good governance; government for gaon, gareeb, mazdoor, kisan; harnessing youth and nari shakti; samvednasheel governance (caring and considerate governance); government of the people, by the people and for the people; development of infrastructure and economy; vision for long-term development; and securing India’s future and promoting brand India.
  
  The government is likely to initiate the offensive on May 26 and it would spread across the country. A beginning is likely to be made with a press conference on May 27 by senior ministers Arun Jaitley and M Venkaiah Naidu. After this, other Cabinet ministers would fan out to state capitals and important places in poll-bound states to take the message across to the electorate. A senior minister told ET: “In poll-bound states of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat, the Centre would also concentrate on tribal-dominated areas.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation from Guwahati on May 26.
  
  Modi has always celebrated his government’s anniversary outside the national capital and uses the occasion to send out a larger message. This time, the occasion coincides with the first anniversary of BJP government in Assam. 
