LUCKNOW: Police and forensic experts recreated the crime scene on Saturday even as the family of  , who was found dead at home under mysterious circumstances two days ago, submitted an application to the police insisting that the incident was a suicide.

 Station House Officer, Mahanagar, SK Singh said Dr  , victim’s brother, submitted an application late on Friday stating that his brother was depressed due to health issues of a family member and shot himself with his licensed revolver on the terrace of their house at Krishna Colony in   on Thursday. He also narrated the sequence of events which was corroborated by Anuraka Sircar, wife of the deceased, in her statement to the police. 
 
 According to the application, Dr Joydeep returned home after picking up his daughters and nephew from a coaching centre at around 5.15pm and asked Anuraka to make a cup of tea for him. Anuraka asked  , who works as compounder for the Sircars, to serve it to Joydeep. However, Chauhan could not find Joydeep. Anuraka tried calling Joydeep on his mobile but he wouldn’t take the calls. 
 
 Then Anuraka heard two gun shots in quick succession from the terrace. As she had recently had a knee surgery and couldn’t climb the stairs, she sent Dharamvir to the terrace where he found Joydeep lying in a pool of blood with a revolver lying close by. Anuraka then called her brother-in-law Dr Sudeep who was at a mall. Dr Sudeep advised her to rush Joydeep to KGMU trauma centre where the doctors pronounced him brought dead. A suicide note was found in one of his pockets in which Joydeep had said he was taking the extreme step because despite being a doctor he could not help a family member who was suffering from an ailment.
 
 While police initially bought into the suicide theory, the post mortem report found two gun shot injuries on Joydeep’s body. Ballistic experts said it was highly unlikely for a person to shoot himself twice on the head. 
 
 On Saturday, a team led by ASP (trans-Gomti) Durgesh Kumar with experts from the forensic lab reached the Sircars’ house to reconstruct the incident. Compounder Dharamvir was asked to play Joydeep. The cops gave him an empty revolver to put to his left temple and then in the middle of the forehead. In both the cases, the cops noted down the angle at which he could put the gun and its possible projection on a graphical chart. 
 
 “The findings will come out by Tuesday,” said ASP (trans-Gomti) Durgesh Kumar said.
 
 
