HYDERABAD: Patients undergoing knee and hip replacement surgeries in the city are not too happy. As many as 10% of such surgeries in a year are conducted on those returning for the procedure due to flaws in implants or infections.

 The latest trend being witnessed in the city is patients returning for a surgery within five years. A re-surgery is generally required only after 15 years.
 
 “Exact numbers are missing as there is no national data on orthopaedic surgeries. But the numbers gathered from various companies that supply implants show that the infection rate in the city is one of the highest in the country. Other metros like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai have about 6% infection rate,“ said Dr KJ Reddy , president of Indian   (joint replacement surgeons).
 
 In medically advanced countries, hospitals halt the surgeries and do a review to identify reasons if the infection rate climbs to more than 2%, said Dr Sudhir, secretary of  . “There is system of maintaining a national registry on orthopaedic surgeries. Hospitals have to submit the data, which makes any review easy. We have taken up this issue with the   (MCI) several times,“ he said.
 
 It is not just the quality of implant that brings patients back on the operating table. Sometimes, an infection that occurred at the time of the surgery lingers and becomes acute over the years. To bring in more accountability, most orthopaedics agree on the need to maintain a national registry of surgeries.
 
 “Another worrying trend is that 10% of joint replacement surgeries are being done on patients below the age of 60. A national registry will help in providing better remedies and care for patients,“ said Dr Vijaychandar, secretary of South Indian Arthoplasty Association.
 
 Statistics available with joint implant companies show that nearly 7,000 knee and hip replacement surgeries were performed in the city last year. Females formed the major chunk of patients - 64% for knee replacement and 70% for hip replacement - in the age group of above 60 years.
 
