Nagpur: Gone are the days when candidates used to bank on rallies and public meetings during civic elections.   has taken up voter outreach far more effectively.

 Such is the impact of social media that political parties and their candidates are using WhatsApp and Facebook for campaigning. From posting pictures of visits, uploading videos on Facebook pages and using WhatsApp, candidates are trying it all.
 
 With expansion of constituency from two wards to four as one prabhag, sitting corporators and aspirants have adopted social media campaigns to reach out to voters in the ensuing Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections to be held on February 21.
 
 BJP corporator Ashwini Jichkar, who has created a Facebook page to interact with people from VNIT prabhag, is also planning to use WhatsApp for campaigning this time. She has been promoting her work done in her prabhag on social media.
 
 “I am not so tech-savvy but I am using different social media websites as it is easier to connect with people. This medium also helps you as it is not a very in-your-face kind of campaigning,” said BJP corporator Sanjay Balpande.
 
 According to him, his party workers have created Hansapuri prabhag group on WhatsApp to keep in touch with residents of the locality. “Even my friends have prepared a five-minute short film which would highlight developmental works carried out by me during my five-year tenure,” he said.
 
 Another aspirant Shubhangi Chintalwar from prabhag no. 29 too is using social networking sites to reach out to voters. “I have already formed 30-40 groups and using these to convey messages of mohallah meetings,” he said.
 
 Earlier, political parties used to make use of mostly public meetings, newspapers/posters and banners to attract public, but now they are adopting new strategies in the wake of the upcoming NMC elections as smartphones are popular among youths.
 
 “Keeping in view its benefits, we too have decided to go campaigning on social media,” said sitting Congress corporator Yogesh Tiwari.
 
 A corporator from GMCH ward, Tiwari said WhatsApp and Facebook have helped him reach a large audience. “I have created area-wise WhatsApp groups such as Chandan Nagar, Mahesh Colony, Somwari Quarter, Raghuji Nagar etc, which helps me connect with people from the constituency,” he said.
 
 Senior BJP corporator Sadhna Barde has prepared a webpage www.sadhnatai.com, which contains details like developmental works carried out by her and works in progress, besides having her detailed profile information.
 
 Independent corporator Ravindra Dolas differed on using social media. He said, “I still believe on door-to-door visit to connect with my voters.”
 
 This time, the election department too has set guidelines for candidates using social media. As per the new set of rules, the candidates and parties will have to inform the Media Certification and Content Monitoring Committee or the election department about the details of their accounts on social networking sites.
 
 They will also have to specify the total amount being spent on the creative team working for their social media campaign and provide a declaration of expenditure and sponsorship related to these accounts and pages.
 
 If a political party or any candidate wishes to post any promotional video online, then he/it will have to seek a pre-certification from the committee. Such online postings should follow the poll code guidelines. The election department too will keep a close watch on parties’ online activities, stated an official from the election department.
 
 
