Fine particles emitted by burning of crop residue and garbage play a major role in increasing density and duration of   in north India, according to recent research from   in Kanpur.

 Looking at several years of data on air pollution and fog in Kanpur, scientists found that winters with dramatically higher levels of fine particulate matter experienced more frequent incidents of fog. These fog spells also lasted longer.
 
 For instance, in the winter of 2012-13, when average levels of PM1 hit 135ug/m3, there were 21 fog events lasting an average of 8.8 hours. The next year, when PM1 levels were lower with average around 94 ug/m3, there were only 6 fog events lasting an average of 4.8 hours.
 
 A separate analysis of fog water samples, by professor S N Tripathi and PhD researcher Abhishek Chakraborty, points to a possible explanation. Fog is formed when moisture condenses around particles in the air. 
 
 At high levels, fine particulates lead to the formation of lots of small fog droplets. Small droplets persist in the air for longer, said Tripathi, and also scatter light more efficiently, leading to greater declines in visibility.
 
 By contrast, larger droplets result in fog that is less dense and dissipates faster. Fog in the US and Europe tend to be dominated by large droplets, Chakraborty said.
 
 While industrial emissions also produce fine particulates, the studies found that particulates from biomass burning dominated high pollution days in Kanpur. Big sources of biomass burning include local garbage burning as well as crop residue fires in Punjab and Haryana in pre-winter months.
 
 Small biomass particulates are also hygroscopic or water-friendly, and thus prone to forming fog droplets, said Tripathi. These droplets get processed further during the fog and produce more particulates that are also water magnets. In effect, “biomass burning may be facilitating formation of fog and fog in turn is processing those particulates to make them more fog-friendly,” Tripathi said.
 
 Another cycle is at play, notes Chakraborty. As fog increases, the temperature drops, and poor people burn more trash or wood to stay warm. Those fires then emit particulates that could trigger the next local haze or fog.
 
 Fine polluted droplets are also more toxic to human health, the scientists noted. They are more concentrated and, because of their small size, enter lungs easily.
 
 While studies have previously linked the increasing incidence of winter fog in north India to rising pollution levels in the region, IIT Kanpur’s ongoing research highlights the role played by the size and type of particulate matter. 
 
 “Once meteorological conditions for fog are met—low temperature, moderate wind, calm conditions and so on—then the density of fog and its persistence seems to depend on the amount of and chemical nature of the particulate matter,” said Tripathi.
 
 
