When it came to making his debut full-length feature film,  , who couldn’t connect with typical commercial films, chose a subject that has left an impact on him.  , produced by  , releases today, and the director, who started off as an engineer, speaks to us about his journey into films and why he feels the film happened to him. Excerpts…

 
 
 Like everyone else, my intention, when I decided to pursue an engineering degree, was to get a good job and perhaps go and work in the US. But then, when I began involving myself in cultural activities, around the 6th and 7th semester, I found that is where my heart lies. So, I skipped campus interviews intentionally and opted for a BPO job instead so that I could work at night and train for films during the day. When I was young, it was a ritual in my family to watch a movie every week. My father and grandfather were theatre artistes, so I think that somewhere, there was always that connect.
 
 
 
 When I was working for a BPO, I used to watch at least one movie a day, and upto six during the weekends. I did this consistently for three years, and that was my biggest lesson in filmmaking. I then decided to pursue a degree in filmmaking, so, I quit my job and enrolled at the  . The academy was in the same campus as Universal Studios, so I got a chance to shoot there, which is not something that everyone gets to do. That was the most memorable time of my life.
 
 
 
 When I returned from the US, I had to start working again, which I did for three years. In the meantime, I made a short film and a mini feature film that wasn’t released. Shuddhi happened post that. I tried a few different things and even thought about doing a commercial film, but it didn’t appeal to me. I began writing the script in 2013, after struggling for six months to figure out what to write about. The film has certain high-profile incidents that were reported widely in the media, but the plan was never to base a story on them. I was consistently watching movies, reading newspaper articles and watching videos online, all of which took me to Shuddhi. So, in that sense, Shuddhi found me.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I am strongly influenced by three filmmakers —  , Steven Soderbergh and  . Before I went to the US, I used to think that the standard of   films is high because of the equipment they use. Once I went there, I found out that we are as advanced here in terms of technology; what is different is the passion. Everyone wants to become a director or hero here, but there, people remain in the same department for life. That affects the outcome.
 
 
 
 To be honest, I expected the kind of reaction that the trailer has received. I have dreamt of everything that is happening now and I very strongly believed that it would come true. I have worked very hard and for long to get here, and everything is happening the way I imagined. Since nothing is unexpected, it keeps me grounded — all this feels normal.
 
 
 
 The screenplay is certainly something to look out for in this movie. The characters are portrayed realistically and the performances by all the actors has already been appreciated; everyone’s done a great job. There is also tact in the way real incidents are dealt with. We were worried about showing certain incidents in the film, but we have taken them head-on and made a film from them. The producer is bold to have invested in such a story. The background score and the cinematography by   are sure to get people talking. The last 10 minutes of the movie is poetic. All of this come together to make the movie stand out.
 
 
 
 When producer Madesh Bhaskar was approached by Adarsh, he was convinced that he wanted to be onboard as he was floored by the content of Shuddhi. “I believe that it is the story and content that make a movie. I am a strong believer in hard work, and Adarsh and his team are good examples of that. People have been telling me that I have taken a bold step with producing such a film, and I am thankful that this movie has been accepted as I feel that it will encourage other producers to back such films in the future,” he says.
 
