AHMEDABAD: New rules framed under The   (Regulation of Fees) Act-2017 provides for 1%   per day if schools fail to pay any penalty or if they fail to refund excess fees within 15 days of the order. School managements are irked by the rules. “When the government frames rules, it should frame them in such a way that they are not challenged in the high court,” said Sudhir Nanavati, a senior high court counsel and trustee of the  . “In my 45 year of practice, this is the first time that I am hearing of the government charging penal interest of 1% daily. This interest is higher than what even a moneylender would charge.”

 Nanavati, who spoke on behalf of school managements, said that schools need clarity on the new   structure. According to the provisions of the Act, students would be paying the same fee they paid at the entry point, or say, when they were admitted to class I. “We want the government to clarify whether the revision made after three years will be applicable to all students or only to new students?” Nanavati said. He said that fixing of fees will be a mammoth task and hence the fee regulation committee should pass an interim order so that schools do not face a liquidity crisis as they have to pay salaries to teachers and staff.
 
 Nanavati said that the government has to create a friendly environment. “Several schools charge more than some MBA institutes do,” said Nanavati. The managements say in order not to burden students they were charging Rs 5,000 as admission fee and Rs 500 per month as fee. The managements say now that they cannot charge admission fees, one option could be to charge Rs 1,000 per month — which would burden students with additional Rs 500 per month. The managements want to know if the government can work out some system to deal with such situations.
 
 A representative of the management of   said, “Fixing the same fee for three years would mean no increments for teachers and staff. Will government employees follow the same trend?” 
 
