The events that unfolded in the last couple of days in connection with the   case was the kind of denouement that we don’t see often even in thrillers. Actor Dileep’s arrest sent shock waves across the film industry.  , the actors’ association, tried to do damage control by expelling   but it is to be seen whether it will act as a face-saver for the outfit which was seen siding with him. While anger and disbelief are the predominant emotions prevailing within the film fraternity, the sense of apathy towards films in general from the audience is more of a concern, especially for the progress of the industry.

 
 
 
 
 The immediate whiplash of Dileep’s arrest on charges of criminal conspiracy will be borne by the actor’s upcoming projects — Ramaleela, Kammara-sambhavam and Professor Dinkan.
 
 Ramaleela, which was supposed to hit theatres at the end of June, was postponed several times and now it looks like the release will be delayed further. Its director Arun Gopy says, “We are yet to decide on the status of the film. Obviously, we are all gutted because the film is not just about the actor; there are hundreds of others who have also worked behind it.”
 
 The movie has reportedly been produced with Rs 14 crore budget, and as G Suresh Kumar, producers’ association official, says, “Releasing it now would only sting its producer more as the audience’ sentiments are totally against Dileep. His fan base have been the family audience and they won’t be forgiving.” 
 The makers of Kammarasambhavam, which was also supposed to mark Siddharth’s Mollywood debut, are also in dire straits, with the shooting of the mega-budget film being stalled midway after Dileep was called for questioning last month. For Professor Dinkan though, there is a silver lining as its director K Ramachandra Babu says, “We have only shot for a few days with Dileep, so there is always a possibility of continuing with another actor. However, we are yet to take a decision on that.”
 
 
 
 
 It’s not just Dileep’s films that would come under a cloud as a result of his arrest, say industry experts. Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce official and filmmaker Anil V Thomas says, “There’s been a sudden loss of confidence in the film industry and that’s evident from the footfalls in the theatres, which are lower than expected. This would continue for another two months before the industry recovers and wins back the audience’ trust.”
 
 Supporting him, director Vinayan says there’s a negative opinion among the audience about those in the movie industry. “When someone who is a big part of the industry falls, the ripples would affect films too. But that perception would change eventually,” he says.
 
 The general audience clearly seems to be in no mood to rush to the theatres. Arya Sugathan, a homemaker, says, “When actors insult our intelligence and trust, why should we shell out our hard earned money on their films? I think it would be better spent watching a circus or going to a zoo. Animals are better than this.”
 
 
 
 
 In a bid to minimise the loss of image, various film associations including AMMA, FEFKA and the Kerala Producers’ Association, in which Dileep was an office-bearer, has revoked his membership and condemned his involvement in the case. This comes just weeks after AMMA members had expressed their full support to the actor.
 
 Meanwhile, director Vinayan blasts the associations and says that hopefully the arrest would lead to a more congenial working atmosphere in Malayalam cinema. “I am hoping it would end the mafia style of working in   industry once and for all. The clout of superstars and the unjustifiable acts of their fans are what have led to nasty revenge tactics. There were also so many crimes which were overlooked because those involved were from the film field. After the arrest, I hope there’s more transparency in how Malayalam cinema works,” says the director.
 
 Others in the industry have also called for infusing new blood into the associations. “Let the movie organisations like AMMA and FEFKA be headed by youngsters like how it’s done Tamil film industry. Let them be the vanguard and usher in a change that would also give a makeover to this industry so desperately needs,” says a new-gen filmmaker, on condition of anonymity.
 
