MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu ministers who spoke at the inauguration of the 56th annual Kodai festival in   on Saturday had stated that steps would be taken to establish a helipad to enable helicopters and small planes to land at the hill station. However, experts say that the ministers were clearly unaware that the state government has passed a government order (GO) to form the Kodaikanal sanctuary, an eco-sensitive zone, banning operation of aircraft within it.

 Speaking to TOI, founder of  , V Asokan, said that ministers, including Dindigul Sreenivasan and N Natarajan, who were speaking of additional facilities for Kodaikanal to enhance  , were clearly unaware that the GO No. 143 (Sept 20, 2013) notified Kodaikanal as a wildlife sanctuary under Section 26A1(b) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.
 
 He said that though the government order was passed, it is now awaiting the central government to declare it a sanctuary. The ministers who were talking about promotion of tourism in Kodaikanal seemed to be unaware of the details of this declaration as most of the proposals for promotion of tourism could not be implemented once the region is declared a wildlife sanctuary, he said.
 
 There are many activities that have been identified which cannot be done within a sanctuary which will be completely under the control of the department of forests. They include commercial mining, felling trees, discharge of effluents and solid waste in natural water bodies or terrestrial area and undertaking activities related to tourism. “When even flying over it is prohibited how can the talk about establishing helipads,” said Asokan. Also vehicular traffic has to be regulated within a wildlife sanctuary. 
 
 “Hence, when it comes into effect, it remains to be seen if Kodaikanal would even remain a tourist destination if the central government makes the declaration to announce it as a sanctuary,” he added.
 
 The notification states that Kodaikanal, Palani in Dindigul and Periyakulam in would come under the Kodaikanal wildlife sanctuary which would be spread over an area of 60,895.482 hectares.
 
 Asokan says that the people of Kodaikanal were against the move to make the region a sanctuary as it would affect their livelihood, which is agriculture and tourism. The Ministers do not seem to have taken these into notice while making their speeches, he added.
 
 
