GUWAHATI: The Kohima bench of the Gauhati high court spelt brief relief for   chief minister  , staying till Monday governor P B Acharya's directive that a floor test be held on or before Saturday to prove the CM's majority. 

  The matter will come up for hearing on Monday. 
 
 Acharya had asked Leizeitsu to prove his majority after his predecessor T R Zeliang staked claim to form the government, claiming the support of 33 NPF MLAs and seven Independents.
 
 In his petition before the court, Liezietsu said the decision of the governor was "ex-facie unconstitutional, illegal, arbitrary and violative of the... basic features of the Constitution".
 
 Liezeitsu pointed out that the process of byelection - through which he is seeking election - is already under way, and that it was "imperative and incumbent upon the governor to call upon the petitioner to prove their majority on the floor of the House only pursuant to the bypoll wherein the petitioner is a candidate". The bypoll is scheduled for July 29. 
 
 Meanwhile, Acharya asked Leizeitsu to reconcile with dissident Naga People's Front (NPF) legislators, the CM's office said. 
 
  The CM has already set the ball rolling for the reconciliation process by revoking the suspension of 10 MLAs, including Zeliang, and the state's lone Lok Sabha member Neiphiu Rio. "The party decided that all of them are NPF members and hence their suspension should be withdrawn. This is a crisis in the family... NPF... and not in the alliance where BJP is our partner," he told TOI on Friday mornin g. He added that he was ready to step down if the governor asked him to. "The governor has absolute powers to sack my government, but I believe he will do justice. If the governor wants me to step down, I will listen to him. But people are happy with my governance," Liezietsu said. 
 
 The rebellion in NPF has reduced Liezietsu's government to a minority, and he had recently accused ally BJP of engineering the crisis to grab power in the state like "they did in Arunachal last year".
 
 
