BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   gave away   to 20 startups for their business ideas at the   (MSME) Trade Fair which began here on Sunday. Among the awardees four startups received Rs one lakh each for developing prototypes, while 16 young men and women were awarded Rs 50,000 each to work on innovative and out-of-the-box ideas. 

 "Today we are celebrating the birth anniversary of the great leader Biju Patnaik. Biju babu is the original inspiration behind industrial and entrepreneurship development in Odisha. With an objective to promote MSME sector and maximise avenues of employment for our youth, the budget provision of the MSME department for the coming financial year has been increased by more than 48% vis-a-vis the budget provision of last year," said Naveen, during the inauguration of the fair. "The development of ancillary and downstream industries with the help of Central and State PSUs should be accorded priority," he added. 
 
 Over 250 small and medium enterprises, including 50 startups, showcased a wide-range of products at the fourth edition of the trade fair aimed at highlighting credit, technology and marketing in the MSME sector. The fair will showcase a wide range of products which include electrical equipment, chemicals and petrochemicals, pollution control devices, agro-based and food processing equipment, polymers, IT products, textiles and handicrafts.
 
 Naveen said, more than 2.5 lakh MSME enterprises have been established in the state with a cumulative investment of more than Rs 12,000 crore and these have provided employment to over 11 lakh people. 
 
 Over 251 products worth Rs 661 crore have been approved by the district level single window committees since April 2015. "The single window committee should ensure that MSMEs are provided the same facilitation and ease of loans," Naveen pointed out. 
 
 During the six day fair, workshops and business meets will be held on various topics. "The objective of the fair is to elevate the state's economy by fostering the entrepreneurs of the state and provide a platform where they can express their ideas and concerns. The fair is a platform to encourage new players," said MSME secretary,  . MSME minister   echoed Gupta when he said, "The state government has prepared a road map for the development of MSME and growth of the startup companies."
 
