LUCKNOW: Having already lost the post of chief minister through a stinging defeat by BJP in the recently concluded elections, Samajwadi Party chief   is in no position to become even the   in either of the two Houses.

 Since Akhilesh Yadav cannot become Leader of the Assembly as he is not its member, he will have to choose from among the two senior most members of his party,   or Mohammed   to be the Leader of Opposition.
 
 Akhilesh will not be comfortable in naming either as given to the bitterness with his uncle Shivpal Yadav after the widely reported family feud. By expressing his views on his Twitter account, Shivpal Yadav has hinted at patch up with Akhilesh and a unified struggle to return to power in the state. But Akhilesh Yadav, it is learnt, doesn’t want to allow Shivpal to play any key role in the party.
 
 On the other hand, Azam Khan will also be a difficult choice for Akhilesh, given the former’s unpredictable temperament. Besides, not being a member of the Assembly, Akhilesh would not be there to make any impact in the house. In the legislative council too, Akhilesh faces dilemma as at present the Leader of the Samajwadi Party in the council is Ahmed Hasan.
 
 To assume that post, he will have to remove Hasan, which might hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community.
 
 The defeat of SP in the assembly elections has already raised questions over his leadership and now he faces dilemma of who leads the party and opposition in the assembly.
 
 Soon after the results, Akhilesh Yadav tendered his resignation to governor Ram Naik who requested him to continue till the new chief minister takes over after Holi.
 
 The BJP which has won 325 seats with its two allies is likely to elected leader of the legislature party and the new chief minister by tonight or after Holi.
 
 AkhileshYadav addressing a press conference soon after accepting defeat of his party yesterday had promised to play the role of construction opposition in the state and it would be first time when he will be in the Opposition in the House.
 
