PUNE: Police rescued a 16-year-old orphan girl from Wai in Satara and brought her back to her college hostel on   on Sunday, two days after a 27-year-old youth allegedly kidnapped her. 

 The Deccan police has booked the youth, a science graduate working in a private company, for kidnapping the girl. 
 
 The youth allegedly kidnapped the girl on Friday and took her to Wai. The cops took them in custody there out of suspicion on Saturday. The girl and the youth were brought back to Pune on Sunday evening in police protection.
 
 According to the police, the girl’s hostel rector on Friday evening lodged a complaint, stating that the girl had gone missing from her hostel room in the morning. The girl allegedly had a fight with her roommates over a trivial issue. In a fit of rage, she left her room and went to the   (ST) stand. After wandering aimlessly, she boarded an ST bus heading towards Wai without even noticing its destination.
 
 The girl met the youth in the ST bus. During the journey, they started interacting and alighted from the bus at Wai. The youth then took her around the famous temples of Wai and they stayed in a lodge on Friday night.
 
 On Saturday evening, the girl and the boy came to   stand after the youth urged her to return to Pune. “The Wai police became suspicious about the duo when they saw them at the ST stand. They took the duo to the Wai police station and questioned the girl. The girl narrated everything to the police. The Wai police then contacted the Deccan Gymkhana police station, where her kidnapping case was registered,” a source in the police said.
 
 The police have recorded the girl’s statement. But she did not mention anything adverse about the youth. She neither complained about any physical abuse, nor molestation.
 
 A police team went to Wai and fetched the girl and the youth to Pune. “We are questioning the youth as to how he came in contact with the girl and why he took her to Wai instead of contacting the police,” the source said.
 
 The rescued grew up in an orphanage in Lonavla. After completing her schooling, the orphanage authorities decided to shift her to Pune for further studies.
 
 
