CHANDIGARH: For city-based students and  , playing and learning in Chandigarh's first multi-discipline   continues to be a dream even after three months of its inauguration.The multidisciplinary sports structure at Government Model High School had cost the administration Rs 8.49 crore and was inaugurated on January 2. It, however, is still under lock and key.

 The delay in opening of the sports complex has further affected the plan of   to turn the school into extended school from the new academic session that began on Monday. The idea of having extended school was given by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore last year and this said school was one of the two selected since it had a sports complex that could be utilized. Under extended school, classes will be taken till 4pm and the extended hours would be used for sports and  
 
 On the delay, director (school education)   said, “The sports complex is under the control of the sports department. We are also waiting for the complex to open. We will take up the issue again with the authorities concerned to start the complex at an earliest as it is to be used for extended hours.“
 
 However, the sports department has a different story to tell. Secretary (sports) SB Deepak Kumar said, “The entire project was executed by the education department and has been handed over to us only two weeks ago as they didn't have the wherewithal. We are trying to get it operational at an earliest in lines with that of best sports complexes in the country.“
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the main reason behind the delay was that the administration had not decided on who will maintain the complex and had also not appointed staff beforehand.The question was pointed at them even during the inauguration to which MP Kirron Kher and Badnore had assured that the issue would soon be resolved.
 
 The administration had also not decided on who will train the enthusiasts under different sports disciplines before inaugurating it. Also, they did not work out a procedure under which the residents would be allowed to use the facilities.
 
 As a result, the complex has remained under lock for the past three months. As per the plan, the sports complex was to be made available to students during school hours and would remain open for the neighborhood early in the mornings and in the evenings.
 
 During the inauguration, big plans were shared by the MP and the administrator that are yet to see the light of the day. “It is a New Year's gift for Chandigarh. It is in itself a blessing for the city. We want that students should get trained here and go for nationals and Olympics also,“ Badnore had remarked during the opening ceremony. But that is possible only after the sports complex opens.
 
 Kher had said, “To promote sports and fitness activities in the city, the Chandigarh administration has decided to provide better sports facilities. One of the initiatives was taken by inaugurating the sports stadium at Sector 43,“ TOI had reported.
 
