GURUGRAM: Directors of three developers, who did not send their representatives to attend the meeting of the sub-committee of the Allottee Grievance Redressal Forum (AGRF) on Tuesday, have been summoned to appear before the department of town and country planning ( ) on April 6 and 7.

 The AGRF sub-committee on Tuesday heard grievances of homebuyers against 14 different developers. However, representatives of Universal Buildwell building Universal Aura in Sector 82, ILD Millenium Pvt Ltd building Spire Green in Sector 37C, and Today Homes and Infrastrucuture developing Canary Green project in Sector 73 were conspicuous by their absence.
 
 As a result, the sub-panel could not take up homebuyers’ issues related to three of these companies. 
 
 “All developers concerned were informed in advance about the date and time of the meeting. They were asked to be present for the meet with all relevant details of their respective projects. But three of the developers failed to send their representatives,” said a senior official of DTCP, adding that directors of these defaulting companies have been summoned. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts to contact them, the developers concerned did not respond.
 
 “We urge the department to take strict action against the developers. If the builders do not take these meetings seriously, one can imagine the plight of the homebuyers,” said Chandrika Jaitely, president of Universal Aura Welfare Association. She further said that stringent rules should be framed to nail defaulters. 
 
 The remaining 11 developers against whom the homebuyers had raised grievances presented their views during the meeting and some of them assured to address the buyers’ issues. 
 
 District town planner Mohan Singh said that most of the issues discussed in the meeting were related to delay in possession. “The developers have been given directions and the department will review their progress from time to time,” said Singh.
 
 Assistant town planner RS Batth said that some homebuyers have complained against Satya developer for increasing the super build-up area in the Hermitage project in Sector 103. “The developer was directed to give details of the parameters for calculation of the super build-up area and give logical explanation for the increase,” said Batth, adding that the developer was also directed to hold joint inspection of the site by buyers and the department.
 
 In a case related to delay in possession in Parsavnath Exotica project on Golf Course road, the developer explained that out of the 19 flats in the tower, 12 were ready and they were working on completing the remaining part of the project. “The developer was directed to give a time line for completion of the formalities related to possession,” said Batth.
 
 
