SHIMLA: Even as the state government is contemplating to bring in a scheme for regularizing encroachments on government land by conferring proprietary rights to a maximum of five bighas, green activists are claiming that the government had failed to address real issues and seemed to be confusing the legal aspects involved.

  from  , an environment research and action collective, said the issue of encroachments gained momentum with the formation of a high-powered   by the state government to deal with the matter of providing relief to small and marginal farmers with forest land occupations of less than 10 bighas, as they were facing the threat of eviction because of a high court order dated April 2015. 
 
 She said before its meeting on February 7, the committee was supposed to be looking at legal and policy options for this relief. “The two major options it was examining were: the provisions of the Forest Rights Act, 2006, and working on a new state policy on regularization. Committee has chosen to push for a policy on regularizing encroachments, a major mistake that holds no legal ground. Let us examine first why this is not tenable,” she added.
 
 Another green activist,  , said that a state policy of regularisation had already been attempted by the BJP government in 2002. He said the reason why earlier attempts made at regularisation of forest land “occupations” by communities had failed was because of central forest laws. 
 
 He said earlier it was the Indian Forest Act 1927, which declared massive areas as forest land under the governance of forest department. But the process of settlement of rights of people on these lands was incomplete in many areas. “Before this issue could be addressed in 1980, the Forest Conservation Act ( ) was passed due to which diversion of any forest land for non-forestry activities could not be done without the permission of the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change,” he added. 
 
 They said it was because of the FCA that “regularization” or settlement of rights on forest land became next to impossible through state policies (like Nautor) or any state legislation which was always over-ridden by the provisions of the FCA.
 
 
