KOLKATA: The agency that administers   in Salt Lake   is exploring the possibility of turning the core area into an   to   and   

 If Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) manages to implement the proposal mooted during a discussion at its recent board meeting, it will become the first such initiative in Kolkata. Elsewhere in the state, the Mall in Darjeeling is a pedestrian-only zone. Though a decade-and-a-half years ago, it was suggested that the twin heritage precincts of Dalhousie Square and New Market be turned into   zones, the plan fell through with key stakeholders—state government, KMC and the police— putting it on the back burner. 
 
 But NDITA now appears to be set on the project and appointed an expert from IIT-Kharagpur to carry out a feasibility study that will outline the advantages and problems of making the internal streets of Sector V free of motor vehicles. Around 1.5 lakh people work in the IT hub and commute there by public transport as well as personal and pool cars. “The jams in Sector V came up for discussion at the board meeting. It was felt making the central zone pedestrian friendly could help solve the problem. We are examining the possibilities,” NDITA chairman Debasish Sen said. NDITA, with the help of the Bidhannagar Police, has made some roads one-way, easing snarls partially. 
 
 Among the proposals are drop-off points along the peripheral roads of Sector V from where commuters can walk to office; curbs on vehicles powered by fossil fuel (petrol/diesel/LPG) on some internal roads; creating cycle stands near drop-off points and office clusters from where bicycles can be hired; and electric golf carts to help the disabled and the aged travel in the no-car zone. 
 
 D Pandit, associate professor at IIT architecture and regional planning department, said the idea could be implemented as it had a young workforce that was increasingly becoming health conscious. “During the change of shift, Sector V sees a terrible congestion. To solve it, we need more people to commute by public transport and then do the last mile on foot or cycle. Also, comfortable buses have to ply to encourage the shift to public transport,” said Pandit, who has done the New Town cycling track project.
 
 
