MUMBAI: The year 2017 is proving to be a lucky one for Manoj Tiwary. The Bengal batsman led East Zone to the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 title at the Wankhede in February and after being injured last year which caused him to miss the  , he got picked by the   in the third round for his base price of Rs. 50 lakhs. Tiwary, who has scored 317 runs in 12 innings at a strike rate of 139.03, played a key role for RPS in their 20-run win over   (MI) in the first Qualifier on Tuesday, scoring a skillful half-century. He also added 80 for the third wicket with   to help RPS recover from 9 for 2 which allowed MS Dhoni to tee off in the final overs.

 It has been a roller-coaster career for Tiwary, nicknamed Chhota Dada, in Bengal cricket circles. 10 years back, on this very ground, it seemed as if he was taking Bengal to a famous win in the company of   in the Ranji Trophy final against Mumbai. He had backed up his 42 in the first innings with a sublime 94 in the second and for a while it seemed as if Bengal would chase down Mumbai's 472. It didn't quite work out that way as   bowled an inspired spell with the second new ball.
 
 The selectors though took notice of his talent and sent him for the ODI series against Bangladesh in Bangladesh. However, a freak injury in the nets ruled him out of the tour. He was picked again for the Tri-series against Australia and Sri Lanka in early 2008 and had to play in Brisbane almost a few hours after landing there. The debut turned out to be inauspicious as   cleaned him up with a searing yorker. 
 
 Since then, the 31-year-old has made sporadic appearances for India and despite being a quality batsman and good fielder, has played just 12 ODIs in nine years, the last of which came against Zimbabwe in July 2015. He even scored a match-winning 100 against West Indies at the Eden Gardens in 2011 but no one remembers.
 
 In the IPL, he has represented Delhi Daredevils and Kolkata Knight Riders and hit the winning runs for the latter in the 2012 final against Chennai Super Kings in Chennai as MS Dhoni watched helplessly.
 
 But a twitter rant after being left out for a game against MI, again at the Wankhede in 2013, prompted the franchise to let him go.
 
 On Tuesday, it was the Wankhede again that allowed Tiwary to showcase his skills. He has been given the finisher's role in the team and has often played crucial cameos like the 13-ball 22 he scored against MI here in the round robin stage, or the 11-ball 27 against Royal Challengers Bangalore at the Chinnaswamy, which kick-started the campaign for RPS after suffering three losses in the first four games. Since then, they have won their last nine of the 11 games.
 
 In the Qualifier, he had to do a rebuilding role. Was it difficult to adapt? Tiwary explains that the requirements from him were explained clearly by coach   and skipper Steve Smith. "If wickets fell in the Powerplay, I was told to bat at No.4 which I did today, but if there was a partnership, my role was to come down. We had players like Ben Stokes and Mahi bhai to hit," he said after the game.
 
 Tiwary says that he had planned to improve his strike rate before this IPL and takes pride in adapting to different game situations. He had not scored in the couple of games prior to the Qualifier and familiar self-doubts had started entering his head. "The franchise has backed me though and it helps a player like me who missed the last IPL due to injury," Tiwary stressed.
 
 Perhaps his luck is changing for the better.
 
