BHOPAL: With   at the door,   (BMC) dilapidated structures   to the people. Last year the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) had identified 900 buildings as dilapidated but most of them are still occupied and no action was taken. Of the 75 buildings identified as ‘unfit for human habitation’ last year only a few could be razed by the BMC officials. 

 Now, as its pre-monsoon activity civic body has started survey of dilapidated buildings in the state capital. It is to be seen how the civic body will rehabilitate residents from these buildings and repair or raze these structures in the next three weeks, before onset of monsoon.
 
 On Monday, a building in Old Bhopal collapsed killing a woman and injuring several people.
 
 The BMC issued notices to the owners of these structures and even razed some of the buildings that were posing threat.
 
 However, this year the works are still at the survey level. 
 
 “Survey is on at zone levels and the data is being compiled. Action was taken against many buildings that were served notices last year. Some of them were left. A detailed list is being complied,” public relation officer of BMC, Harish Gupta told TOI. 
 
 He added, “We will be completing the survey and entire work of identifying and issuing notices before the onset of monsoons”. 
 
 However, sources said during heavy rainfall, there is a possibility that some of these old buildings may collapse. Despite the threat to life, BMC had been reluctant in acting against the   in the city, said sources.
 
 Several incidents have been reported in the past regarding the collapse of residential and official structures claiming lives of residents, sources said. 
 
 A list of such structures is prepared every year by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation as its pre-monsoon activity. 
 
 Last year, the wall of NITTTR collapsed in Bhopal damaging several vehicles that were parked along its side. In October 2015, two people were killed after the boundary wall of a flyover collapsed near railway station area. Likewise, in 2014 a couple were killed after a wall collapsed in Lalghati area. 
 
 The most fatal of such accidents took place in November 2012 when seven persons were killed and more than 30 injured after an overhead water tank collapsed in Sai Baba Nagar of the city. 
 
 During last year, the BMC faced severe problems due to water-logging in several parts of the city after heavy rain. Illegal constructions on natural drains were said to be the major reason for water-logging. The corporation had undertaken a drive to remove illegal constructions and are clearing the natural drains in vulnerable areas under its pre-monsoon activity.
 
 Situation is bad in some of the government quarters in TT Nagar which are declared dilapidated, but are still occupied. The structures are to be razed down in view of state government’s re-densification project. 
 
