AHMEDABAD: Around 2500 farmers from 15 villages near Sanand took out a rally from Nalsarovar crossroads on Tuesday morning demanding a fair share of Narmada water for drinking and irrigation.

 The procession’s destination was Gandhinagar but when it arrived near Rethal village, Ahmedabad rural police stopped it and asked the agitators to disband as they had no permission for the rally. This led to heated arguments between the police and the farmer leaders. At around 12:30 pm, protestors began throwing stones at the police.
 
  Ahmedabad (rural) SP Rajendra Asari was injured when a stone hit him on the forehead. He had to be given five stitches. Four other police personnel sustained similar injuries. 
 
 Soon after, police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd. Protesters alleged stone-pelting by the police as well. As the violence threatened to go out of hand, police asked for anti-riot vehicles and enforcements from nearby police stations.
 
 Asari told TOI that the police had tried to reason with the leaders of the agitation but they were adamant on marching towards Gandhinagar. “We had to use force to bring the situation under control. We had videographers with us and the footage will be used to identify the rioters,” he said.
 
  Officials of the Ahmedabad rural police said 38 teargas shells were lobbed to disperse the mob. Around 12 vehicles — belonging to the police and protesters — were damaged in the violence. Later in the evening on Tuesday, Sanand police registered an FIR against the agitators for rioting, obstructing government officials from performing their duty and assault on government officials.
 
 A total of 70 protesters were taken to Ahmedabad rural police headquarters at Makarba as part of preventive action.
 
 Farmers keep protest non-political
 
 Ahmedabad: Members of Nalkantha Samiti had organized the rally to protest failure of the state government in providing them water from nearby canals. The Samiti is a group formed by 15 villages around Nal Sarovar.
 
 Amarsinh Solanki, participant in the rally and vice-president of Ahmedabad district panchayat, said the farmers from Viramgam, Sanand and Bavla had recently held a meeting and decided to take out a rally from Nalkantha to Gandhinagar. 
 
 “The villagers had formed a committee and decided not to include political persons. We were with the farmers but the political parties were not allowed to use their banners,” he said. Solanki further said that there are certain villages wasting the water that has led to the current conflict.
 
 Patidar and OBC leaders also opposed the lathicharge on farmers in Sanand on Tuesday.
 
 Alpesh Thakor, convener of  , gave a call of Sanand bandh on Wednesday.
 
 “Government used force and conducted atrocities on farmers when they were demanding for water. We oppose and condemn such brutal act and therefore we have given a call of bandh in Sanand town area,” Thakor said.
 
 Hardik Patel, convener of  , said that BJP-ruled state government is against the farmers. “The way police resorted to lathicharge on farmers who were holding a rally in Sanand, it shows that this government is against the rights of farmers and youths. The government is only interested in instilling fear in mind of people.” 
 
