What Kamal Haasan started, some others in the Tamil film industry have taken forward. But many, including Rajinikanth, are yet to give their opinion on the ongoing tussle between O Panneerselvam and V K Sasikala. Associations of actors, directors, producers and technicians that are heavily influenced by state politics, have chosen to wait and watch as the drama continues to unfold.

 After Kamal Haasan, Vijay Sethupathi, Arya, Gautami Tadimalla, S Ve Sekar and a few other stars backed Panneerselvam for the big job, action-heroine and former MP   threw her weight behind Sasikala. Many prominent names in the industry, when contacted, chose to reserve their comments.
 
 S P Jananthan, director of national award-winning film `Iyarkai', said Sasikala is a more able administrator as she had managed to gain support from a majority of   legislators. “The democracy we practise is purely a numbers game. When Anna passed away, Nedunchezhian was next in command, but Kalaignar who held eight positions in the DMK went on to attain the top post. The appointment of Sasikala as CM could give rise to a new leader,“ said Jananthan.
 
 Actor-director R Parthiban, who favoured Panneer selvam, compared the political developments to a thriller film.“It is an engaging drama. But the kind of politics playing out in the state is disdainful,“ said   who felt Panneer selvam's outburst on Tuesday night came from his heart.
 
 Raghava Lawrence, a key player in organising the jallikattu protests, refused to pledge support to either of the leaders. “I can't speak of something I don't understand,“ he said.
 
 Film director Gautaman, one of the jalikattu protest organisers, said the state should be ruled by a Tamil. “I would welcome someone with a resolve to protect the language and culture. The people need a self-made leader.“
 
 Vijayshanthi appealed to Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu to ensure no subversion of the Constitution took place.“Naidu must ensure Sasikala, who has the majority support, becomes chief minister.“ Calling Panneerselvam an opportunist, the action star said, “By stating that a probe will be initiated on the death of Jayalalithaa, Panneerselvam is creating confusion.“While Parthiban said the situation in TN was ‘disdainful’; Vijayshanthi said OPS was ‘creating confusion’ 
 
