Times News Network

 Ropar: Senior SAD leader and Punjab education minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema is facing a tough fight from Amarjit Singh Sandoa, a taxi driver in Delhi and Aam Adami Party (AAP) nominee.
 
 Amarjit, a resident of Sandoa village in Nurpur Bedi block of Ropar, was given a ticket by AAP in its first list released in August, 2016. Cheema has contributed to the development of local roads and has also provided other facilities, like educational institutions. But issues such as sacrilege, Behbal Kalan and the Kotkapura firing remain deciding factors.
 
 Former Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh student leader and Congress nominee Barinder Singh Dhillon resonated with a large number of university and college students, who had been campaigning for him. Cheema, meanwhile, won the 2012 state assembly elections, securing 41,595 votes and defeating Romesh Dutt Sharma of the Congress by a margin of 8,882 votes.
 
 But AAP emerged strongly in the 2014 parliamentary elections, when it secured around 30,000 votes. The present candidate appears to have made the most of it. Village residents said in the past six months, AAP candidate Sandoa reached out to each and every voter of the constituency, striking a chord with his aam aadmi (common man) image.
 
 Sandoa, 38, went to Delhi in 1997, where he worked as helper in a taxi stand. Later, he learnt driving and worked as taxi operator. “It was only after he worked rigorously for AAP in the Delhi assembly elections that Kejriwal and Sisodia recognized his potential and announced his name in the first list. Nobody in our family was in politics, he owns 3-acre land and a two-bedroom house in the village. We are sure he will change the equations in these elections,” said Amarjit’s uncle and former soldier Prem Singh. A number of taxi drivers from Delhi also came to support him, he added.
 
 All this does not convince Gaurav Rana, a staunch supporter of Daljeet Cheema in Nurpur Bedi. According to him, Cheema’s contribution the development of the area couldn’t be ignored. He said Cheema would win by a higher margin this time.
 
 Gurinder Singh Gogi, a senior AAP leader of Ropar, said people were already angry over the sacrilege issue and the situation had been exacerbated by the dera Sacha Sauda’s support to SAD-BJP. He also said the Congress had lost ground in the past three days. 
 
 BOX: Voter turnout in 2012 assembly polls
 
 Total votes: 1,48,365
 
 Votes polled: 1,14,591 (77.24)
 
 Men: 58,868 (74.83%)
 
 Women: 55,723 (79.95%)
 
 Sidelights (Ropar)
 
 -- Voters in villages were enthusiastic about casting votes
 
 Madhopur village near Nurpur Bedi had 475 votes and 400 were polled by 1 pm
 
 --Sacrilege, firing and support announced by Dera Sacha Sauda were key issues of discussion
 
 --A few women in the rural areas of Ropar only recognized the symbol of the party they voted for and were unaware about the name of the candidate
 
 -- A few voters in rural areas said SAD workers appealed to them saying “Takdi nu ni pauni taan Congress nu paa deyo” (if not willing to vote SAD, vote for Congress)”
 
 
