HYDERABAD: The condition of people residing near storm water drains has worsened this monsoon. Raising an alarm over the menace, locals living in the vicinity of Hussainsagar Surplus Nala and Khairatabad storm water drain alleged that the authorities' complete lack of apathy has only made matters worse.

 Coupled with the rise in mosquito menace, a rancid smell and unattended garbage dump has made the lives of these residents difficult.
 
 “To add to that, trees that have grown inside these drains have not been cleared since three years. These trees are restricting the free flow of water as the garbage and plastic bags get stuck to them,“ said M   a resident of Street No 1, Himayathnagar who has been adversely affected by the Hussainsagar Surplus Nala.
 
 Another resident from the same area complained of rancid smell and requested the authorities to cover the drain completely to bring some respite to people.
 
 “The stench worsens after every spell of rain. Several politicians have promised us that they will fix the issue during their election rallies but have never fulfilled the promise,“ said Kamal Goyel.
 
 Similar grievances were aired by residents living near the Khairatabad stormwater drain who accused the authorities of risking their health.“Despite taking all measures like spaying pesticides and using mosquito repellents, we have not been able to control the mosquito menace,“ said  , a resident.
 
 On the other side of town, those staying near the storm water drains in Champapet and   in LB Nagar circle, complained about the stretches near the drains turning into a dump yard.
 
 “Seeing the existing dump near the drains, people are further littering the place by throwing garbage. Bandicoots are also a cause for concern in our locality,“ said a resident from Lingojiguda.
 
 GHMC officials, however, maintained that work was on to widen the drains and construct retaining walls.
 
 “We have taken up nala widening work phase wise to ensure free flow of water in the drains. It is not advisable to close the nala from the top, as we may not see if anything is stuck in it like trees, branches etc,“ said   , chief engineer (maintenance, housing & admin), GHMC.
 
