MANGALURU: Though the district as a whole recorded 485 dengue cases in 2016, 20 cases more that the previous, the cases in   have seen a decline. 

 While the highest number Elisa and NS1 cases have been recorded in Puttur taluk at 116, Bantwal taluk has reported 105 cases, Belthangady 77 and Sullia taluk 70. However the city corporation area has recorded just 64 cases while   taluk has recorded 53 cases.
 
 In 2015, the highest number of Elisa and NS1 cases were reported from Bantwal taluk (113 cases). That year saw Mangaluru taluk dengue figures hit a high of 101 followed by Puttur at 92. Belthangady taluk reported 71, Sullia taluk 41 and the city corporation area of Mangaluru 47.
 
 District vector borne disease control officer Dr Arun Kumar said the effective vector control measures in urban areas have seen the cases decline. “This programme cannot be replicated in rural areas and that’s why the cases are high there,” he added.
 
 More cases of dengue are being reported in Puttur, Bantwal and Belthangady taluks in the district. Kumar said that increased breeding of mosquitoes in arecanut, coconut farms and rubber plantations is the main cause for this in rural areas. “The plantation workers or those who visit plantations get bitten by the vectors causing dengue fever, where there are natural sources for water stagnation and mosquito breeding and it spreads in villages. That’s the cause for increase. People have to venture into work areas with adequate mosquito protection, lest they will get some or other form of vector borne disease,” he cautioned. As opposed to rural areas, in urban areas, there is a better protection against vectors due to regular fogging, clearing of mosquito breeding sites, Kumar added.
 
 
 
 
 The incidence of H1N1 is on the rise in DK and Udupi districts with the latter recording two deaths since January this year. Udupi district surveillance officer (SO) Dr   confirmed the deaths saying that there were five   and two deaths since January. 
 
 The latest death was on Saturday, with a bank manager Laxminarayana C Salian,43, succumbing to fever. He was suffering from high fever for the past 10 days and was admitted first at a hospital in Udupi and then shifted to Mangaluru. Dr Upadhyaya said both the patients had asthmatic history and late diagnosis of H1N1 had led to complications. 
 
 In DK district, five positive cases of H1N1 have been reported since January out of the 40 blood samples tested for H1N1. Dr Rajesh, district surveillance officer, said the peculiar weather pattern may be one of the causes for the rise in cases. Dakshina Kannada district had recorded its first H1N1 death in March 2015 with a 62-year-old person succumbing to the flu.
 
 
