Mohali: A portion of airport road in the middle of the busiest crossing of Mohali has caved in posing threat to commuters. 

 Three-feet-deep   in the middle of Radha Soami Satsang Beas crossing on the busy airport road awaits GMADA attention. Though the crater has been cordoned off with traffic police barricade but absence of any reflective coating makes the spot prone to accidents during nights. The crossing is the busiest in the city as it connects Mohali with the rest of Punjab and is also the passing road to Derabassi and Delhi. If the data obtained from the Mohali administration is to be believed, over 1500 vehicles cross the spot every day.
 
 The responsibility to maintain the airport road still lies with GMADA whereas that of other roads have been transferred to MC.
 
 Mohali deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra showing concerns about the caved in road said, “I just saw that the road has caved in, when I was crossing the spot last night. We almost banged into the barricade as it was not at all visible in night. This has really become an accident-prone spot which thousands of vehicles cross every day and that too at a very high speed. I will talk to GMADA CA over the issue.”
 
 The craters have become common in Mohali after the heavy rains during the monssoons and since then the authorities, instead of repairing them instantly, have just fenced them hindering smooth flow of traffic on road.
 
 Another such spot is at the traffic light point near the Forest Building in Sector 68, where half of the road, has been blocked by the authorities for nearly past 13 days. A tree got uprooted during the recent downpour, which resulted in a big pit at the spot.
 
 Residents fume over the fact that GMADA takes laxity in repairing such death traps and awaits some mishap before acting. Gurminder Singh, a resident of Sector 71 said, “Airport road is the worst road in the city. Tagged as the most prestigious road and constructed by spending crores of public money, it actually has become a true example of corruption.”
 
 However GMADA chief administrator Ravi Bhagat was not available for his comments on the issue. 
 
 
