COLVA: In many ways, the 2017 assembly elections are going to be nothing like what’s been experienced before. 

 Interestingly, this year, the trend of die-hard supporters challenging their leaders, or better framed as bête noires matching the popularity of their mentors, has been giving many senior politicians sleepless nights. This scenario is prominent in the Christian-dominated Salcete taluka and in some of these constituencies, chances are that the former will not have to play second fiddle anymore. 
 
 Nuvem is experiencing an electoral battle between Francisco Mickky Pacheco and Wilfred D’Sa. The latter had worked very hard in 2012, to ensure a resounding victory for Mickky. But, in 2017, D’Sa has bagged the Congress ticket, ironically, the party he helped defeat, and is contesting against Mickky from Nuvem constituency.
 
 Five years ago, current Congress candidate Joseph Silva was an ardent fan and staunch supporter of Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai. Prior to 2012 assembly elections, Sardesai had ensured D’Silva’s victory at the MMC polls. Now, D’Silva is contesting the Fatorda constituency on the Congress ticket. In Benaulim constituency, veteran politician Churchill Alemao’s bête noire Maria Rebello is contesting against him. Maria is a second-time sitting zilla member and the veteran Varca politician had campaigned hard for her victory during both terms. In turn, she campaigned for Alemao during the 2014 parliamentary election. 
 
 Velim will see a contest between former MLA Filipe   and  . During the last election, independent candidate Benjamin D’silva trounced   due to an anti incumbency wave against the Congress. Then, Anthony stood by Filipe Neri, but this year, he is contesting against him on the GFP ticket.
 
 Clafacio Dias could be Joaquim Alemao’s nemesis in Cuncolim constituency. For the two terms that Joaquim was elected to power from Cuncolim constituency, Dias has been his backbone. This time, Dias has managed to win the first round of the battle by winning the Congress ticket. 
 
 Will sidekicks steal the limelight this time around?
 
