JODHPUR: The   on Wednesday cleared legal hurdles for the appointment of school lectures. While disposing off over 100 petitions, challenging the results of the   Recruitment Examination 2015 by the   (RPSC), the HC gave a go-ahead to the state government to proceed with the appointment of successful candidates on these vacant posts.

 With this dismissal of the petitions, the state government will be able to fill 1,398 posts for 19 subjects from science and arts, the examination for which was conducted by the RPSC in July 2016.
 
 The petitioners   etc. had objected to the deletion of 18 questions as recommended by the expert committee and the issues pertaining to it and had moved the high court seeking setting up of an independent committee to look into the deletion of 18 questions and the bonus marks thereon.
 
 Allowing this petition, the high court had stayed the appointment last year and had sought replies through notices from the RPSC and the state government.
 
 Replying to these objections, the counsel for the RPSC J P Joshi argued in the court that entire recruitment process has been executed with complete transparency and referring to the 18 questions, deleted by the RPSC, said that bonus marks had been given to all the applicants.
 
 “We released the answer key first and entertained objections thereon, if any, on the basis of which, the final answer key was released followed by the examination of the answer key by the expert committee and deletion of 18 questions from the paper owing to errors in them,” Joshi argued.
 
 Satisfied with the arguments of the counsel of RPSC, justice Kaur, on Thursday, while dismissing these petitions, justice   vacated the stay and ordered the government to go ahead with these appointments on the vacant posts across the state.
 
 The result of the examination had been declared by the RPSC in September 2016 but with some applicants challenging the results in the high court, the appointments had been stayed and entire process got stuck leaving the government with no alternative then to await the disposal of the matter.
 
