It is down to brass tacks for the  . As the Grand Old Party gets ready to make the much-awaited generational shift this year, it is trying to rebuild organisation and reconnect with the masses.
 
  Two months after Congress vice-president   started forming separate units to tap specific votebanks, including unorganised workers, fishermen, tribals, OBCs, working professionals, NRIs, ET takes a look at the party’s attempt to go down to the grassroots. From a nascent RTI cell to an energised All India Unorganised Workers Congress and jazzed up Fishermen Congress, Gandhi’s exercise is a collage of new-found enthusiasm, confusion and more-of-the-same.
  
  
 
  The unit is Congress’ first attempt at organising the unorganised sector. Politically, it means directly addressing migrant workers and the poorest of the poor who had traditionally voted for Congress but were successfully weaned away by other parties in different states. Within a month of its formation on August 2, the All India Unorganised Workers Congress is buzzing with activity.
  
  The unit has finalised its national and state structures and is even ready to rollout its first two pilot projects in Delhi and Bihar.
  
  The idea is to identify different sectors – like rickshaw pullers, rehri-patri workers, ragpickers, beedi workers – and organise them in groups. The unit has already identified 82 such unorganised sectors. Arbind Singh, chairman of the unit, says, “Our aim is to reach every unorganised sector worker.
  
  We would identify them and give them identity cards. For every 100 workers we would appoint a leader.” The unit would have its launch in Delhi and Bihar next month. In about five states, the unit has identified coordinators to initiate the exercise of connecting party with the workers.
  
  “There are leaders who have been working in the unorganised sector. We are connecting with them and involving them in identifying problem areas of the sector and initiating policy changes,” says Singh.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  Within three months of its formation, All India Fishermen Congress sports a professional look. Even before it starts unifying fishermen societies and other allied services across coastal states, the unit has hired a private firm for digital media and public relations work. All media interactions are handled through this firm, Visage Media.
  
  Three-time MLA and head of the unit T N Prathapan replies to queries over email through Visage Media.
  
  The unit would have an All India executive committee, which would have state representatives. It has identified areas where it would work for the fishermen. In an email response, Prathapan says, “There are areas we would work on like an independent ministry of fisheries at the national level and GST exemption for fishing equipment.”
  
  
 
  Rajya Sabha MP and SC lawyer Vivek Tankha is heading this unit. While the legal cell of the Congress was always active, Gandhi has added two more roles to Tankha’s job profile – human rights and RTI.
  
  So far, Tankha’s legal team has been very active, being aided by young lawyers eager to do pro bono work for the numerous cases Congress is finding itself tangled. However, it is the new profile of the department which is yet to take off the ground.
  
  Tankha says, “We are in the process of giving a shape to the units in the states. I have written to the unit presidents to send three names for creating these cells. We want to create a network in each state so that any court case comes anywhere we have an energised machinery which can help us.”
  
  Once the organisation is in place, the cell would connect with RTI and human rights activists who would work on getting information from the government. “We need to unite. There are people working in exposing the lies of the government. We need to connect and work together. Vyapam in Madhya Pradesh is such an example. We are now fighting in courts but the real battle started with RTI exposes,” says Tankha.
  
  
 
  The Congress has always had a Scheduled Tribes cell. After the exit of former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi in June 2016, the unit had remained headless. But now rechristened as Adivasi Congress, there are clear signs of rejuvenation with the work being entrusted to former tribal affairs minister V Kishore Chandra Deo.
  
  Deo has the advantage of having five vicepresidents to help him in Adivasi Congress.
  
  The former minister has divided the states among the vice-presidents so that the work can be handled efficiently. “The brief is clear – we need to connect with the tribals, bring out their problems and give a voice to them,” says Deo. Of late, the tribals have been wooed by BJP which has a strong presence through RSS in all tribal-dominated areas.
  
  So far, the state organisations are not in place and the work would have to start from scratch. Deo has an important task at hand, especially ahead of 2018 Assembly elections in tribal-dominated states of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
  
  
 
  Congress has identified the non-resident Indian community as an untapped support base. At present, the party has overseas cells in 18 countries. However, a majority of the countries remain untapped.
  
  With most political parties like AAP and BJP involving the NRIs actively in their programmes, the Congress has realised the true potential.
  
  Gandhi has roped in Sam Pitroda, who had helped his father   in building the Indian information industry. Speaking to ET from Chicago,   said, “The immediate aim is to expand the current 18 cells of the Congress to 50 – reaching across to all countries. There are 30 million Indians overseas, we want to connect with them.” A meticulous presentation prepared by Pitroda spells out the aim – to connect with NRIs in building smaller units in cities across the world, involve them in resource mobilisation, attract global talent to return to India and help in policymaking and party-building, make Congress’ agenda in India and foreign policy perspective clear to NRIs.
  
  
 
  Congress VP introduced a new idea to connect working professionals with the party through different chapters across cities. While   has been appointed as the chairman, the All India Professionals Congress has four regional coordinators in Milind Deora (west zone), Geetha Reddy (south zone), Gaurav Gogoi (east zone) and Salman Anees Soz (north zone).
  
  The work is slowly beginning across the regions. Tharoor says, “All India Professionals Congress is India’s first political organisation to provide a platform for the aspirations of the professional. Our focus is centred around creating a bridge between professionals and politics. We believe that professionals have been left out of the process of nation building for far too long, and remedying this disconnect shall be immeasurably beneficial to politics as we know it.”
  
  A chapter is formed as soon as 25 members or fellows, as they are called by AIPC, get together. It can have a maximum of 100 fellows. To have only serious members in its fold, a fee of `1,000 has been prescribed to become a fellow. Tharoor brushes aside suggestions of this being a discouraging factor. “I do not think a `1,000 fellowship fee will be a discouraging factor for taxpaying professionals who are passionate about using their talents and experiences to improve policies or service delivery. The fee is one method of ensuring that our fellows are genuine professional applicants; Congress has multiple alternative forums available to those who cannot afford a 1000-rupee fee,” he says.
  
  In the west zone, Deora says he is getting a tremendous response with professionals coming forward to start chapters. Though Deora was unable to give exact number of fellows, he said the response was in “thousands”. Since the unit is a new concept, the office-bearers are still trying to work out a strategy and get a feel of the groundwork.
  
  Deora says, “We are expecting a lot of things from this initiative. When we get all the professionals in a place they could help in framing legislations, read fine prints of government policy or even throw up potential candidates to fight elections. Our aim is to connect the party with the people.” The work is not visible on the ground as the unit is still trying to get an organisation in place. 
