Remember King Kong, the wrestler? The friendly 200-kg Hungary-born,   who was famously lifted up, twirled in the air and flung into the crowd by arch rival   in one of the most exciting matches in India's wrestling history? What Singh did to King Kong's pride that day in the 1960s, a thin salesman at a sports gear shop in   later managed without touching the wrestler. One fine day in the 1970s, on seeing the big man alight from his car, this salesman had fished out the custom-made, Rs 20 T-shirt that was King Kong's usual buy . “How can you assume I came here only for this?“ asked an incensed Emile Czaja, nicknamed `King Kong', as he stormed out.

 This is perhaps the only an gry exit in the century-old highlight reel of Dhobi Talao's Bombay Sports, one of the oldest sports gear shops in the city. It was here that, fresh from the 1983 World Cup victory , cricketer   had inaugurated a sports wear corner called `Power Corner', causing a frenzied, traffic-stopping mob outside. In fact, Dara Singh used to order his wrestling boots from this shop, whose mascot was a beefy `Muscleman' till cricket exploded in India and, in turn, extinguished the need for his brawny greeting. Set up first in Karachi in 1909 by a Karachi-based Sindhi businessman named Thawardas Jagtiani, this sports brand--whose factory was originally in Sialkot--boasted four centres in India before Partition. “At that time, Bombay was a Presidency and had a prestigious aura, just like Paris,“ says Jagtiani's granddaughter Pravina Mecklai, explaining the name `Bombay Sports'. Business led Jagtiani -a simple man sporting a topi and a cane purchased in   -to move to Bombay with his family sometime in the 1930s. But when Jagtiani's wife, Guli, suffered a bout of tuberculosis--which had no cure then--Jagtiani moved back to Karachi in the early 1940s. Soon, however, Partition saw him return to the city for good.
 
 The newly etched border meant that Jagtiani had to shut shop in Karachi, move the factory to Jalandhar and sell off all the other centres. “It was rare for a Sindhi to own a shop in those days,“ says Karan Rai, 35 who recalls his grandfather, a microscope importer, getting quizzical looks.While the store isn't the family's main source of income, it is an heirloom whose frayed walls and mezzanine floor-where Jagtiani would often take his afternoon naps--have been preserved on purpose.“This shop is our passion project,“ says Rai.
 
 Two black-and-white newspaper ads from 1924 -one for a perambulator with a reversible hand grip and another for a pair of imported football boots hint at the shop's colourful past. Bombay Sports would also import high-end goods including indoor games such as Meccano construction sets and the Hornby model railway set. “Most of our big buyers were foreigners,“ says Rai's uncle and former store manager Sunder Jagtiani, recalling a store employee who would slyly “direct all the Indian clients to me.“ Many tourists from Dubai and Israel, in par ticular, would seek out indigenous carrom boards, recalls Sunder, 71 who served as the store manager for 50 years.
 
 While the recent fitness boom has forced treadmills and steppers to line the shop, there was a time when the only two body sculpting equipment it sold were cast iron dumbbells and chest expanders. The latter would cost Rs 250 in the 1960s and customers would pay in monthly installments. In the 1970s, the exposure to sports on TV caused not only a rash of gully cricket but also an sports shops in their neighbourhood.
 
 “Earlier, you had to be a member of a club to play cricket,“ says Rai, adding that boys used to buy the entire cricket kit then. But that trend has been phased out by the self-sufficient sports clubs of today that provide communal kits to aspiring sportsmen. “People now buy individual items such as bats and have very specific requests about brand, weight and style,“ says Rai, which has seen an upward trend in football in the city , thanks to clubs and artificial turfs.
 
 Routinely , the store gets clients who say their grandfathers used to shop here. Bombay Sports also has a basic website meant chiefly for taking a rough inventory of products available. Rai plans to start a “sports concierge service“ for sports gear. “I never say no,“ says Rai, who has got enquiries for things like waveboards, hoverboards, fidget spinners and a machine that exists chiefly as an idea at the moment: “a badminton robot“.
 
