MUMBAI: An Andheri   is the latest to have fallen prey to a seed fraud by Nigerians and lost Rs 1.8 crore. Cyber police have registered an offence of IPC sections for cheating, forgery and breach of trust, and and Information Technology Act against five persons, mostly Nigerians.

 The scamsters lure gullible targets via social networking sites like Facebook. 
 
 The victim, Kaka, came in contact with Victoria Cater on Facebook in July 2006. Cater told Kaka that she was a personal assistant to the director of the UK firm,  . They soon became friends and regularly chatted with each other until Cater made a very lucrative offer. She told him that their company buys Macadamia nut plant   from India but for some reason, the dealer had stopped supply.
 
 Cater said the seeds were available in India for Rs 2,750 per 400 gm and was sold to their company for Rs 6,500. Cater told him that if he agreed to supply the seeds to the company, the profit would be almost double and she should get a commission. Cater also gave him a contact number of Sandeep Suvarna, claiming that he supplied the seeds.
 
 A senior police officer said, “It’s a trap. She was giving all details of the seed supplier and buyer, the cost price, sale price and profit, and yet people were blindly believing it. They float lucrative schemes that are nearly impossible to reject it and people fall prey.” Police said Kaka got carried away and said he was ready to strike a deal. 
 
 Within two days, he got an email from Sandeep, who told him to deposit Rs 1.7 lakh. On July 27, 2016, he got an email from  , who claimed to be a purchase manager of Good Health, telling Kaka to send samples. On July 29, Suvarna called Kaka and told him to collect the first set of samples from Kandivli. A man identified as Varoon handed over a packet to Kaka. On August 7, Kaka received an email from Smith that their purchase manager Charles Philips was going to Udaipur for some work and he should show the samples to him. He was to check the quality and approve the order on the spot. Kaka flew to Udaipur where Philips checked the samples and gave an order for 100 packets. 
 
 Kaka returned to Mumbai and immediately placed the orders with Suvarna, who told him to pay Rs 38 lakh. Varoon met Kaka at a hotel at Vile Parle, handed over 50 packets. Kaka later called up Suvarna and asked why he gave only 50 packets when he had placed an order for 100. Suvarna told him to pay another Rs 30 lakh for the remaining 50 packets, which he did, but Suvarna gave only 30. “After getting 80 packets, Kaka called up Smith but his phone was switched off. 
 
 Cater called Kaka and asked why he had delayed the supply and added that the company may cancel the deal. Kaka told Cater that Suvarna’s mobile was switched off. Cater then gave another number, so Kaka called Suvarna and told him to urgently give him the remaining 20 packets. Suvarna told him to deposit Rs 20 lakh, which he did, but he did not get the seeds, added officer. 
 
 When Kaka told his relative in UK to check details of Good Health, they found there was no such company and he had been duped.
 
