HYDERABAD: Suspecting that the state government has now stalled admission process to fill up post-graduate   seats, PG aspirants on Sunday demanded that the state immediately release the merit list and continue with web counselling.

 Members of Health Reforms and Doctors’ Association (HRDA) and Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (JUDA) conducted an emergency meeting on Sunday. They decided to meet the health minister, the principal secretary health, and the vice-chancellor of  , on Monday to request them to continue with seat allotments. They further claimed that they will be once again seeking legal help if the government failed to do so.
 
 “The PG aspirants are confused as the government has put the results on hold. If the results are released, students can finalize options in Diplomate of National Board (DNB). Right now, they can’t make any decision as they have no clue whether they got a seat in the course and college they wish to join,” said  , secretary general, HRDA.
 
 He said the government should first allocate seats and when the court makes a decision on the fee structure, the same can be implemented.
 
 “The High Court has directed the government to freeze fee hike for next four weeks, but for no reason, they have even frozen the admission process. The government should immediately complete the process,” said   B, a PG aspirant.
 
 The government on Tuesday issued a GO revising the tuition fee for postgraduate medical and dental courses in private unaided and non-minority colleges. As per the revised order, the fee for PG clinical degree course under the convenor quota (category A) will now go up to Rs 6.9 lakh per annum from Rs 3.2 lakh. However, the students have moved court the very next day challenging the move and got a stay on fee hike. 
 
 The vice-chancellor of  , meanwhile, said that they have written a letter to the government asking to issue guidelines so that they can move ahead with the counselling process.
 
 “The students were asked to access web options in the second round of counselling on May 12 and 13 and we are even ready with the merit list. We are now waiting for the government to issue guidelines so that we can release the list,” said B Karunakar Reddy, VC of the university. He added that the private colleges have written to varsity asking to differ admissions till fee structure is fixed.
 
 He further added that as per Supreme Court order, counselling should end by May 31. He said the admission process should continue.
 
