BHOPAL: Several cases were taken up during the two-day National Commission for Women ( ) Jan Sunwai here, including the one in which IAS officer DP Ahuja was accused of manhandling a city-based psychiatrist Ruma Bhattacharya.

 The case dates back to 2014 when the IAS officer’s vehicle allegedly rammed the stationary vehicle of Dr Bhattacharya. The psychiatrist alleged that the IAS officer had manhandled her. Bhattacharya attended Jan Sunwai at police control room. Hearing the case, NCW member Sushma Sahu expressed her displeasure over the absence of IAS officer at the hearing. She said, “I don’t care what position he holds in the government, if the case was dated for today then he should have been present.” Investigating officer in the case was also pulled up for failing to bring the IAS officer for hearing.
 
 In yet another case, Sahu sought report from   police on an anonymous letter, accusing a premiere institute’s senior officials of indulging in unlawful activities. Following the complaint, the officials were asked to be present at Jan Sunwai on Thursday. “We have sought a report, as the case has come through an anonymous complainant. Any action would be recommended only after going through the inquiry report. This is a highly sensitive case,” said the NCW member while talking to the media.
 
 Mincing no words, Sahu also targeted Madhya Pradesh State Women Commission chairperson Lata Wankhede for not representing MP in meetings in New Delhi. “She hasn’t been there to represent   even once. However, she has assured that after joining of new members today, she will present a report on plight of women in the state at the next high-level meeting.” Wankhede was sitting beside her.
 
 Admitting that there was coordination problem between NCW and the state women commission, Sahu said, “There were coordination issues, but now things have started falling in place. In Jan Sunwai, we have come up with about 130 cases to resolve, compromise and seek report from police for further action. We have received ATRs in many cases while some are awaited.” Other cases that came up were family dispute, domestic violence,  , mental harassment etc. Applicants alleged that they received the notices late and thus could not reach for the hearing on time.
 
 
 
 
 Investigating officers had a bad day, as they were asked to explain their probe. Many failed to do so, as they were not updated about the case status.
 
 New panel members join
 
 Four new members of MP state women’s commission joined the bench on Wednesday. These include Sandhya Rai, Anju Bhagel, Pramila Vajpayee and Surya Chauhan. 
 
