HYDERABAD: A woman from the city who says she is being harassed by her Pakistani husband in Lahore has contacted her father, who has made a passionate appeal for help to external affairs minister  .
Mohammadia Begum, a resident of Bandalguda, was married to  , who pretended to be an Omani national, in 1996. The nikah was done on the telephone and she joined Younis, a mechanic, in Muscat. After 12 years of marriage, Begum got a shock when Younis disclosed soon after he lost his job that he was a Pakistani.
 
 “After finding out about my distressed daughter, I just hate my son-in-law. He not only cheated us about his nationality, but he is also harassing Begum and torturing her. For the last three months, she has been calling us and making desperate pleas for help,“ her father  , a cycle mechanic, told TOI. “Baba, do whatever you can to save me. I am unable to bear the torture at the hands of Younis and want to return to India,“ Akbar quoted his 44-year-old daughter as having said.
 
 Looking back, he and his family wonder why they didn't do more checks. “My family and I have always been proud Indians. We should have checked his nationality ,“ said Akbar, who has appealed to foreign minister Sushma Swaraj for help. Akbar performed the marriage without meeting his son-in-law or his family and trusted a middleman, underscoring how thousands of unsuspecting Indian women become victims of bad marriages that are fixed by unscrupulous brokers.
 
 “My daughter travelled to Muscat, Oman, to join her husband. She gave birth to two sons and two daughters in Muscat and was taken to Pakistan where she gave birth to one more son. In the last 21years, she was allowed to visit Hyderabad only once, in June 2012,“ Akbar's letter to the minister reads.
 
 In 2008, Younis, who worked in a car workshop in Muscat, lost his job and told Begum to pack up and accompany him to Pakistan. Now, Younis is refusing to allow her to renew her Indian passport, which expired in April 2016. “As her life is in danger, I humbly request you to use your office and ask the Indian embassy in Pakistan to send her back to India as soon as possible,“ Akbar wrote to Swaraj. Akbar said he would approach the Hyderabad police for help as well.
 
