NEW DELHI: Describing  ,   said on Wednesday that   has always celebrated the “argumentative” Indian, not the “intolerant” Indian, but cautioned against disruptions in Parliament and assemblies which weaken the  . 

 In his address to the nation on the eve of the 68th Republic Day, Mukherjee said, “Multiple views, thoughts and philosophies have competed with each other peacefully for centuries in our country. A wise and discerning mind is necessary for democracy to flourish. More than the unison of ideas, a healthy democracy calls for conformity to the values of tolerance, patience and respect for others.” He warned against vested interests which had put “our pluralistic culture and tolerance to test”. 
 
 The President, who had made no secret of his anguish after continued disruption of Parliament in the winter session, said, “We have a noisy democracy. Yet, we need more and not less of democracy.” 
 
 Acknowledging that systems were not perfect, the President said the time was ripe for a constructive debate on electoral reforms while suggesting a return to the “practice of the early decades when elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies were held simultaneously”, an idea which the Modi government is very keen on debating. “It is for the Election Commission to take this exercise forward in consultation with political parties,” he said. 
 
 On the back of protests by a combined opposition against demonetisation, Mukherjee defended the drive and said it may have led to “temporary” slowdown in the economy while immobilising black money and fighting corruption, and added that cashless transactions, the thrust of the government, would bring more transparency in the system. 
 
 He said the economy had been performing well despite challenging global conditions, but stressed the need for job generation as “lack of opportunities leads to frustration and unhappiness which manifests itself in anger, anxiety, stress and aberrations in behaviour”. 
 
 The President urged the post-independence generations to realise their responsibilities which go along with their rights. “These generations have had the privilege of... chasing dreams in a free nation. This sometimes makes it easy for them to take freedom for granted, to forget the price that extraordinary men and women paid to win this freedom, to forget that the tree of freedom needs constant care and nourishment,” he said. 
 
 The President hailed the government’s flagship initiatives and said these were designed to promote well-being of society. He cited Swachh Bharat Mission for a clean India, MGNREGA for employment generation, Aadhaar for direct transfer of benefits, Digital India for creating a knowledge economy, Start-up India and Atal Innovation Mission for fostering new-age entrepreneurship and Skill India initiative for skilling 300 million youth by 2022.
 
 
