PANAJI: Chief minister   on Thursday said the state government will implement the   order on shutting   along national and state highways by April 1 and hinted that the government may approach the apex court to seek concession.

 On the government’s stand on the SC order, Parrikar said “We will follow the court judgment. If there is concession to be taken, then we will go to the court,” adding that the SC order has been passed under Article 142 of the Constitution and hence, is obligatory. 
 
 “When the SC passed the order under Article 142 of the Constitution it become the law of the country,” Parrikar said.
 
 BJP, in its election manifesto, had said they would explore legal options including approaching the SC to seek an amendment to its order banning sale of liquor within 500m from highways.
 
 Former chief minister   had said the state government needs to explore the possibility of relocating liquour shops situated along national highways. 
 
 As much as 2,289 bars and restaurants, taverns and hotels with alcohol licences are likely to get relief if the government approaches the court. 
 
 The state government is likely to follow advise by advocate general that hotels and bars do not come under the purview of the apex court order. 
 
  Parrikar on Thursday had a meeting with excise officials to discuss the issue. Post the Supreme Court order, the excise department identified 3,210 licences functional with 500m of either a national or state highway. 
 
 An official said around 921 licence holders still be affected. This includes 789 retailers selling alcohol in packed bottles, 33 alcohol warehouses and 99 wholesale dealers.
 
 Excise department is likely to start issuing show cause notices to 789 licence holders from Friday onwards. It has to comply with the Supreme Court order by the end of this month. Also all hoarding advertising alcohol have been asked to be removed.
 
 An excise official said they have issued direction to the director of panchayat and directorate of municipal administration.
 
