Passing through Old-Palasia square, you will definitely notice the Peepal tree with a signboard that reads ‘Pure Indore shehar ko mera dhanyawad, mujhe na kaatne ke liye’. Vandana Jain, the green activist behind that signboard shares, “I wanted to be the voice of that tree. Many trees are being cut down to develop roads. I didn’t want this tree to be chopped down too, so I put up that board thanking people for not cutting it down. In summer people turn to trees for shade but noone thinks of doing anything to save them. My idea was to trigger an emotion in people to be a little more sensitive towards the environment.”

  
  
 
 Echoing the same sentiment of Vandana’s effort, a recent campaign saw activists bandaging the branches of over 15 trees whose branches had been cut down. They even dabbed red paint onto the bandages, for added effect. Amita Parekh, an artist who conducted the drive called The Heal Project, with other artists in the Pritam Lal Dua Sabhagrah campus, informs, “The drive aims to bring to light the apathy of the authorities and stir human emotions towards the environment. With the help of Hemlata Rana, the librarian in-charge of DAVV, we were able to carry out the drive.” Amita also hopes to take the project, which is an awareness drive through art, to schools and colleges next, “because young minds need to be educated.” She adds, “This project is the brainchild of a Mumbai-based couple Kisalay and Sheena Vora, who have so far conducted the drive in cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, Roorkee, Kolkata and Indore.” When asked about the project,   says, “We thought of coming up with a subliminal approach to save the environment.”
 
  
  
 Various organisations in the city conducted plantation drives post the monsoon to increase green cover. Ajay Gadikar, a member of The   says, “Every year we conduct a plantation drive to increase the green cover. We conducted the drive at Sirpur Lake in 2016 where indigenous and fruit-giving trees were planted. A lot of people continue carrying out plantation drives even in summer, which is not a suitable time for trees to grow. People should plant more indigenous trees instead of exotic ones that only serve the purpose of beautification. The first three years are very crucial for any plant to grow, so a tree guard and secured fencing is necessary.” Nihar Parulekar, curator of the   shares, “Apart from being associated with NGOs that conduct plantation drives, responsible citizens should adopt two plants each, and ensure they survive. With the rate at which the heat is increasing and the destabilisation of climate, the next few years will create an alarming situation.”
  
 Picture Courtesy: Aayush Joshi
 
