KOTTAYAM: A year on since   has been abducted by an extremist group in Yemen and the efforts by the Union government for the   of the priest have yielded no result. Now, a close relative of the priest has disclosed that ‘some foreign agencies’ have contacted the family, offering help to save him.

 A senior member of the Uzhunnalil family, V A Thomas, said on Thursday that representatives of the ‘agencies’ sought the family’s permission to go ahead with the task. Thomas, who hesitated to reveal the name of the ‘agencies’, said it was not in the goodbook of many governments of the world. He also hinted that it had connections with Mossad, the intelligence agency of Israel. “They contacted us over the phone after the second video of Fr Tom surfaced on social media in December last year,” said Thomas, a retired headmaster.
 
 Refusing to divulge further details citing security reasons, Thomas said, “We do not have any right to give permission as the priest was sent to that country by the Salesian church," he said. Thomas, who has been coordinating the efforts to save the priest, added that the agencies promised safe return of the priest.
 
 He also said that the family members have been pinning their hopes on the central government but were quite disappointed that the efforts to release the priest were not fruitful even after a year. “We are worried about Fr Tom’s health. He   diabetic and has blood pressure issues,” he said.
 
 Fr Tom, who hails from Ramapuram in Kottayam, was abducted allegedly by terror group   on March 4 last year, after unleashing an attack on an old-age home run by   in Yemeni city of Aden.
 
 Thomas, who is also the treasurer of Uzhunnalil kudumbayogam, remembered Fr Tom as a studious child. “After completing school, he joined the Salesian congregation and was ordained in 1990. He was sent to Yemen in 2010. Even after his five-year term in the country expired, the church asked him to stay back till another person assumed the charges,” Thomas said.
 
 Meanwhile, the relatives are busy making arrangements for the special prayers on Saturday. The priest’s hometown is dotted with flex boards and posters demanding his speedy release.
 
