PANAJI: The   (NIT), Goa, has been asked by Union ministry of human resources development (MHRD) ministry to expand its current infrastructure using prefabricated structures, which can be shifted once the NIT gets land for its new campus. The HRD has sanctioned Rs 15 crore for the setting up of these structures.

 NIT Goa has written to the state government requesting for land area of 20,000 sq m within the   complex at Farmagudi, where it is presently housed. 
 
 A research and laboratory complex and one hostel block each for male and female students as well as a common dining area for students will be constructed using prefabricated structures, Prof  , acting director of NIT Goa, said.
 
 The state government has already acquired land at Balli, Cuncolim, to set up the permanent campus of NIT Goa and the HRD ministry has said that investment in prefabricated structures will be useful as the same can be quickly dismantled and assembled again at the time of shifting to the permanent campus.
 
 “It is much faster to set them up and if Goa government agrees to provide the required land, the planned structures will be ready within six months. At present, our classrooms are scattered. The lecture complex will provide students spacious classrooms in one location. The research complex will be a three-storey structure of 2000 sq m,” Yaragetti said. 
 
 The research complex and laboratory are expected to aid the work of 36 doctorate students presently pursuing research at NIT Goa. Yaragetti said that the institute has received funding worth Rs 10 crore from different funding agencies, including the MHRD and department of science and technology, to pursue research.
 
 With over 450 BTech, MTech and PhD students at the institute, NIT Goa finds the space available with it at the temporary campus falling short. Yaragatti said that to improve facilities from the upcoming academic session, repair works to arrest leakages in the current buildings have been carried out. Also, air-conditioning and a stationery store have been provided. “We have also hired a 51-seater bus which will make four trips everyday, from Ponda to the NIT campus, to make travel easier for students,” Yaragetti said.
 
