NASHIK: The district administration has decided to upgrade its   plan for all   across the district to ensure security of the pilgrims.

 “There was been a disaster management plan in place which was implemented during Simhashtha Kumbh Mela in Nashik two years ago. We are now taking steps to upgrade it by incorporating recommendations on issues like sanitation, health, among others,” Nashik resident deputy collector Ramdas Khedkar said.
 
 The disaster management plan was prepared by the district administration five years ago and also included training of its personnel with the help of Pune-based Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (YASHADA) and   (NDRF).
 
 The disaster plans were executed efficiently in the city and district during the Kumbh mela. “We are now planning to ensure there are disaster management mechanism at temples which see huge rush during festivals. Although there has never have been any untoward incident, we do not want to take any chances,” Khedkar said.
 
 Initially, the administration would deal with health and sanitation aspects at Saptashringi Shrine that is situated on a mountain. The shrine attracts large number of people two times in a year – Navratri and   — when devotees from Maharashtra and other areas throng the temple.
 
 Although restrictions of movement of vehicles are already in place during festival, district officials feel that health and sanitation facilities need a boost. Hence, a plan will be prepared soon and executed with the help of the temple trust.
 
 At Trimbakeshwar, there have been complaints about snake bites and other problems that the devotees face during rainy season. “Hence, the administration is planning to introduce health services as part of disaster management plan. Similarly, Kalika Mata (yatra) in the city also attracts huge crowd during Navratri festival. The administration is also planning to introduce some mechanism for decongestion allowing at least elders and children to move freely,” he added.
 
