NEW DELHI: The south corporation’s new headquarters will come up near  . To be developed over 8.75 acres next to the IP DTC depot, the building—the plan for which was approved by the civic body’s standing committee on Thursday—will be ready by the end of 2018. 

 “The construction will start in a month and it will be finished in record time as the project is being executed by NBCC (National Building Construction Corporation). The project has been incorporated in the overall plan of the new exhibition-cum-convention centre at Pragati Maidan that is being monitored directly by the Prime Minister’s Office and the bottlenecks are being removed at the Cabinet-secretary level,” said Shailendra Singh Monty, the chairman of the committee. 
 
 The plot was to be used for developing a district park and the change in land use was cleared by the technical committee of DDA on Wednesday. “As the land is located at a prime location, the new headquarters will be easily accessible from  ,” said commissioner Puneet Kumar Goel.
 
 Along with the north corporation, the   currently operates out of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civic Center on Minto Road near Ramlila Maidan, which was built for the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Since the trifurcation, its ownership has been a matter of dispute. While SDMC argues that the building should be shared as it was constructed out of the funds of the unified corporation, the north corporation has consistently maintained that the Cabinet decision on the trifurcation clearly said “each corporation would be the owner of the assets falling in its jurisdiction”. 
 
 The south corporation, however, is not ready to give up its claim. “If in future the fight erupts again, this new building will be helpful. Our legal claims will remain as they are. We may operate some offices out of Civic Center,” said Singh.
 
 The south corporation was earlier proposing to build its headquarters in Dwarka but Singh said “the central location of the Pragati Maidan site tipped the balance in its favour”.
 
