Thirty five-year-old housewife Pritha Patkar’s seven-year old daughter is super active. “My daughter has this excess energy because of which she is constantly jumping around the house. If her energies are not channeled the right way — for example if she is not given something to play with or draw, she becomes extremely cranky. Thus, we always have to be patient with her and deal with her carefully and also keep her engaged all the time, because she tends to get bored with activities very easily,” shares the distressed mother.

 Children between the age group of three to 12 years are active and parents fail to recognise the syndrome terming them simply as ‘always excited’. But did you know that this could actually be something more serious than just being excited?
 
 According to several reports and studies published it has been proved that parents often fail to recognise the symptoms of a hyperactive child. Says child psychiatrist Dr Devang Parikh, “Often parents feel that their child is just active and excited. This trait is common for children between the age group of three to 12 because they are in a growing up stage. But when your child starts getting too anxious about something, is unusually aggressive, bursts into crying spells, does not pay attention or keeps fidgeting all the time, you need to take serious note of it.” 
 
 
 
 
 As a parent you must address the disorder that your child has. Says counseling psychologist, Priya Shahani, “This is a neurological problem and not a fault of the parents. Because of this syndrome, a child is impossible to manage outside as well as at home and more often than not, parents feel this reflects badly on them. Parents must familiarise themselves with the characteristics of this disorder and help their child along the challenging path that lies ahead. Many a times it can be resolved by adhering to special diets and counseling sessions. Since no two child is the same, you must take your child to the doctor and not just follow advise given by family members or relatives.”
 
 Child counselors and experts believe that one child may display eight or nine symptoms of hyperactivity, whereas another one may exhibit more symptoms than those that are associated with this disorder. For example, a child may perform well at studies while another one may display learning problems in school.
 
 Adds Shahani, “As a parent of a child who is hyperactive, you have to responsibly identify with the help of teachers, psychologists or counselors the symptoms that characterise your child and determine the best way to approach these problems.”
 
 Apart from this, many experts feel behavioural therapy works wonders for such kids. The method should be practical. Give children strategies for managing their impulses and learning socially appropriate behaviour. This apart, the therapist will also advice both the parent as well as the teacher in school on how to manage the child.
 
 
 
 Since small children display a lot of energy, it is impossible to figure out whether your child is hyperactive or not. But there are certain specific symptoms like the ones mentioned below which are some of the characteristics of a hyperactive child. If your child has one or more of these, it is important to treat it immediately.
 
 Lack of concentration: Just because your child is naughty and mischievous, it does not mean that he lacks concentration. Children who suffer from this disorder find it extremely difficult to concentrate and tend to be extremely restless. For example, they won’t stay seated for long and can’t settle down to tasks or play.
 
 Unusually aggressive: Hyperactive children find it difficult to relate accurately to those around them. Thus one of the best ways to tell whether your child is suffering from   is to watch how they behave with other kids. For example, he or she can become irritable or may hit another child while playing a game.
 
 Very impulsive: Often many kids find it extremely difficult to be around people and start getting restless. This behaviour is often accompanied by crying and shouting spells. 
 
 Emotional/intellectual immaturity: If your child is emotionally younger than his/her counterparts you need to recognise the problem.
 
 Attention seeking: Such children are extremely demanding and their behaviour forces parents to constantly be with them.
 
 
 
 Have strict bedtime rule for your kid. Make sure that you set a specific time, say, 8.30 pm or 9 pm and stick to this time even during weekends.
 
 Do not pamper your child beyond limits. While it is okay to care for your child and make sure that he or she gets whatever they want, have some restrictions. For example, if you take your child along with you for shopping, do not always buy whatever they ask for. This will give hope to the child that no matter what he or she wants, you will provide for it.
 
 Find them something to focus on. Hyperactive children find it difficult to concentrate on one thing alone. That is why it is important to engage them in activities that they like doing. It could be anything from reading, painting, drawing or playing indoor games.
 
 Hyperactive children are full of energy and if you get them tired, it will burn out. 
 
 Don’t include sugar or caffeine in their diet. It tends to build energy and keep your child active.
 
 If your child is behaving weird, do not get hysterical. Teach your kids how to behave and control themselves when they are acting strange. Do not shout, scold or beat them. Rather teach them breathing exercises that will calm them down.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
