BENGALURU: Vehicle users shouldn't harbour hopes of petrol and diesel coming under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax ( ) any time soon. This despite Union oil minister 
  the same. Given the money spinner that taxation of petroleum products is, both the Centre and states appear reluctant to accede to any such demand.

 If brought under GST, the cost of petrol and diesel will dip by close to 50% in Bengaluru. For instance, a litre of petrol which costs Rs 71.62 as on Monday would be available for Rs. 44.04, even if it is put under the highest 28% GST slab. If taxed at 12 %, a litre would cost only Rs 38.49.
 
 There is no legal hurdle to including petroleum products under GST as the   has already listed them under the new tax regime, but levying of tax has been deferred. And there is no way Karnataka will be ready to let go of the golden goose that is fuel. The state earns an average of Rs 1,000 crore in monthly revenue by taxing fuel.
 
 
 
 
 Petrol attracts 97.54% tax, including 67.54% central excise duty and 30% state sales tax (in Karnataka).If it is included under GST, the Centre and the state would lose over 50% of the revenue from sale of fuel. The new GST regime has already cost Karnataka government Rs 200 crore in July , with abolition of entry tax on petrol and diesel.
 
 "Pradhan is right in proposing to include petrol and diesel in GST, as consumers will greatly benefit from this. We too have sent representations to this effect to both the Union finance ministry and the GST Council. However, it seems the Centre and the states won't let this happen since they heavily bank on petroleum products for revenues and don't want it disturbed," said M Prabhakar Reddy, chairman, All-India Petroleum Dealers Association.
 
 "The proposal to include petroleum products under GST is not being discussed now. Currently , the main focus is on improving GST compliance," said Ritvik Ranjanam Pandey , deputy finance secretary (budget), who is also commissioner of commercial taxes.
 
 "Revenue has always been a concern. It'll take time for the new taxation system to yield results. At this stage, neither any state nor the Centre can take a chance," he pointed out.
 
  
  has been a cause of concern. Only 73% of the 4.6 lakh registered dealers and traders were able to pay tax in July owing to technical glitches in the GSTN portal. Wednesday is the last for paying tax for August and compliance is expected to come down further since the glitches haven't been fixed, though the load on the portal has increased exponentially .
 
 "I think states are not yet prepared for petroleum products be included under GST," said K Ramakrishna Rao, principal secretary (finance) to the government of  ,where the shortfall in GST collection in July was Rs 300 crore.
 
