 NEW DELHI: Bihar deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s explanation over the corruption charges levelled against him in an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation is unlikely to end the problems for him and his party Rashtriya Janata Dal within the ruling grand alliance. RJD’s ally Janata Dal (United) is apparently worried about the possible damage to its leader and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s image as a “clean leader” in view of the developments.
 
  At the meeting of JD (U) leaders on Tuesday, Kumar had reminded his party men about his zero tolerance policy against corruption. But then,   has got the support of Congress and some other parties in its hour of crisis. Talking to reporters after attending a cabinet meeting chaired by Kumar in Patna on Wednesday, Tejashwi virtually presented himself as a victim of political vendetta.
  
  He claimed that he was a minor when the alleged corruption took place in the case in which CBI has made him an accused. “I did not have ‘moonch’ (moustache) then. I was not holding any post then,” Tejashwi said, adding that the charges against him were part of a political conspiracy by Prime Minister   and   chief  .
  
  He claimed that he has delivered good results during his current tenure as deputy chief minister. He also asserted that the grand alliance is intact and will remain so. Although Tejashwi put up a bold face, it may not be an easy decision for his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad to pull out of the grand alliance in case the chief minister demands Tejashwi’s resignation. RJD has apparently little options to fight its political battle alone in the present circumstances.
  
  
  
  If BJP returns to power in the state as an ally of JD(U) and   returns to the NDA fold, then it would only increase Lalu Prasad’s problems: he would have to fight a battle against both state and central governments. Certainly, it will not be an ideal situation for him. Although Prasad almost keeps his MY (Muslim-Yadav) equation intact, Kumar has been continuously working to strengthen his party’s support base among the MBC (most backward castes) and women voters. So, RJD might not want to go into the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on its own.
  
  Unlike Prasad, Kumar has kept his options open by taking unpredictable decisions like his praise for the Centre’s demonetisation exercise, and backing NDA’s presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind. People close to the Bihar chief minister said his main problem is saving his clean image. “He knows his ‘rajnitik punji’ (political capital) is his clean and good image which he has successfully built up over the years,” a person close to Kumar said.
  
  “He has initiated actions in such matters in the past. He must be exploring his ways to deal with the new situation,” the person told ET on phone from Patna. So, what are the options for Kumar? It is expected that he might involve grand alliance ally Congress to settle the issue with RJD. Apparently, Congress has its own interest in saving the alliance in Bihar.
  
