NEW DELHI: The   has appealed to the Centre to invoke its powers under Section 86 of the Delhi Metro Railway (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002 to put on   till the matter is reviewed jointly by it and the central government.

 The appeal was issued a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked for an independent audit of the accounts of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to determine whether it was actually facing losses and to what extent.
 
 The government said that the second hike in fares this year is in violation of the very laws under which DMRC came into existence.
 
  “What was Delhi Metro Rail Corporation doing for the past nine years? When its accounts were audited, did it not realise that it was facing losses? The last fare hike was in 2009. Why did it wait till 2016 to implement such a sharp raise and that too once in May and again in October? Secondly, if there was such a crisis, why was there a gap of eight months between the time that the committee gave its recommendations and when the board meeting was held?” asked an official.
 
 Section 37 of the Delhi Metro Railway (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002 states that “the recommendations made by the Fare Fixation Committee shall be binding on the Metro railway administration.” An official said: “Since the above mentioned section is clear, therefore the DMRC needs to answer how the committee’s recommendation that ‘there shall be a gap of one year between two fare hikes’, was violated by the Delhi Metro and on what basis is the second hike being defended by its officials. The first hike was in May this year and within five months, it wants to implement the second hike,” he said.
 
 Officials said that while the state government had never interfered in the functioning of DMRC since the AAP-led government assumed office on February 14 February, 2015 and had “consistently provided all kind of support” for its operations, “it could not remain a mute spectator at a time when the interests of commuters are being overlooked”. 
 
 
