Panaji: The focus of Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar’s budget to an extent was on   (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim and health sector in general. Parrikar has proposed to establish the-state-of-art burns unit at GMC. 

 The proposed unit will have ultra-modern equipment as also trained doctors will be appointed to offer round the clock service, Parrikar declared in his budget speech on Friday.
 
 The security at the premier government-run hospital has always found lacking. Instances of thefts have been reported in the GMC premises. Parrikar said services of retired army officers and jawans will be utilized for administration and security of GMC.
 
 Parrikar who gave up defence ministry to become chief minister of Goa last week, said he intend to utilize servicemen in GMC because, “I have experienced their discipline and methodical functioning of armed forces. Retired army officers and jawans are great asset for any organization.”
 
 Margao district hospital has been under construction for over five years. The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has missed many a deadlines in completion of this project.
 
 Parrikar in his budget speech said they will adopt mission mode to finish construction of the new district hospital and it will be thrown open for public use in 2018.
 
 Parrikar also declared to establish dedicated college for allied health courses. Currently, five allied health courses are run by GMC but there is no separate facility to conduct classes. For this, adequate funds have been earmarked in today’s budget.
 
 Also, works of some of the health institutes, a project at Mandur, Resident Medical Officers (RMO)’s hostel at Chicalim, Primary health centers at Cansaulim and second phase of Goa Dental College (GDC) will be completed. 
 
 Also, Primary health center at Candolim will be upgraded with increased bed strength and a new building. A new primary health center at Pirna will be established.
 
 Universal mediclaim scheme, Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojna (DDSSY) introduced about six months ago, Parrikar said will be strengthened with appropriate enhancement in benefits. Also, DDSSY will be reviewed at the end of year.
 
 Besides, Parrikar also announced to upgrade the AYUSH services. A separate wing of AYUSH headed by deputy director will be created. 
 
 Plus, a full-fleged 50 bedded the state-of-art hospital to provide treatments in Ayurveda, homeopathy, Unani, Sidha and yoga treatment with the Ayush Ministry will be set up. Parrikar said all formalities in this regards has been completed.
 
 With GMC celebrating 175 years of its existence, the government will conduct various programmes throughout the year.
 
