BHOPAL/JABALPUR:   on Wednesday quashed state economic offences wing (EOW’s) probe against additional chief secretary   – in connection with the Rs 810 cr inter-corporate deposit (ICD) scam, on grounds that investigations were not being carried out as per the order of Supreme Court.

 Court has also quashed the letter sent by the probe agency to DoPT seeking a sanction to prosecute the officer while issuing an order to conduct a fresh inquiry against him. In October 2016, court had stayed all proceedings against him.
 
 “Court agreed to our argument that   had not conducted any fresh inquiry into the matter as per the verdict of the Apex court,” said Praveen Dubey, counsel for the IAS officer.
 
 He said EOW completed its investigation and sanction was sought for on May 16, 2011, but there was no document or material available on record to show as to what was done by the investigating officer or the investigating authority after orders for a ‘fresh investigation’ was passed by the Supreme Court in 2011.
 
 “EOW was asked to start fresh investigations into Mohnaty’s alleged role in the matter. However the agency went ahead with their on-going investigations relying on already available documents in violation of the Supreme Court’s order,” said Dubey. 
 
 Reaching to this high order, EOW officials said they would challenge it before the apex court.
 
 Mohanty, 56, was named an accused in the multi-crore ICD scam that rocked the   government in 2003. His lawyers Vivek Tankha and Praveen Dubey argued the state government had forwarded its proposal for sanction to prosecute Mohanty without complying with observations and SC mandate. They had also produced a chart to clarify that no fresh investigation or inquiry has been conducted by EOW.
 
 During the previous hearing high court had stayed all proceedings against Mohanty on same grounds asking the EOW’s Investigating Officer to demonstrate as to how and in what manner the order passed by the Supreme Court on February 3, 2011, is implemented. The SC had also ordered to examine and give Mohanty all opportunity to project his views and furnish documents necessary for investigation. The Apex court had observed in the order with regard to the mistake committed by an officer in the normal course of official duties, which may not be a criminal offence.
 
 EOW failed to convince the court about a fresh investigations.
 
