MUMBAI: The 17-hour daily ban on entry of tourist buses in south Mumbai has sparked off protests with bus associations planning a morcha. They are drafting a writ petition to challenge the traffic police order in Bombay high court. They also plan to meet chief minister  .

 The traffic cops, however, justified the order, saying the ban on entry of private buses and heavy vehicles was being done to “decongest SoBo“ between 7 am and midnight, especially in the wake of traffic snarls due to the ongoing Metro work. “The restrictions are being imposed on an experimental basis for two months,“ said DCP  , who issued the order on Tuesday .
 
 Harsh Kotak, general secretary ,  , said the associations fear passengers could be fleeced by cabbies who could charge a premium to transport them within south Mumbai. He further stated there were 33,000 buses owned by private operators in Mumbai metropolitan region as against 6,000 buses owned by BEST, MSRTC, TMT and other bus undertakings. “Around1,000 private buses enter Greater Mumbai of which 300 head toward SoBo daily. When the Union transport ministry encourages buses as compared to private cars, why are restrictions being imposed on us?“ he asked. The associations held a meeting on Wednesday .
 
 Joint police commissioner (traffic) Amitesh Kumar told TOIthis was not the final order.“We will seek objections and suggestions from stakeholders after the two-month experiment. If there is a logical de mand, we may consider it before issuing final notification.There were complaints of heavy vehicles and buses being parked haphazardly and we plan to put an end to the menace,“ he said, adding the vehicles will now have to compulsorily park at the pay-and-park lots.
 
 Anil Garg of School Bus Owners' Association said though school buses had been exempted, the order called for parking buses at pay-and-park zones. “There is no proper parking facility for school buses in SoBO and those available charge exorbitant rates,“ he said.
 
 Malik Patel from the Sanghatna said as per a recent study , 1.4 passengers travelled by private cars as against 35 by private buses in SoBo daily .
 
