PUNE: A major fire broke out in one of the units of the   ( ), a premier establishment of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), here on Monday night. “Almost 80% of the equipmentlab instruments in the facility were reduced to ashes,“ city's chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise told TOI.

 NCL authorities said the cause of the fire was being ascertained, adding that no casu alty was reported. “The blaze was brought under control within an hour,“ NCL's safety officer   told TOI. NCL director   was in Hyderabad and left immediately for Pune on learning about the fire.
 
 At least five fire tenders, three water tankers and an NCL fire tender brought the blaze under control.
 
 “The fire, which broke out around 8.30pm, engulfed the ground-plus-one structure of the   Pilot Plant-III located on the NCL campus in Pashan,“ Ranpise said.
 
 Indus Magic is one of the cluster programs involving five CSIR laboratories, including the NCL, and works towards the development of fine and speciality chemicals for the country's chemical industry. The project name is an acronym for Innovate, Develop and Upscale (Indus) Modular, Agile, Intensified and Continuous (Magic) chemical processes and plants.
 
 The unit, which is located a kilometre away from the NCL's main administrative complex, was closed when the fire broke out, Ranpise said.“We got a call from the NCL regarding the fire following which one of our tenders was rushed to the spot. The building was engulfed with flames from all sides and we had to summon more fire tenders. The fire was brought under control around 9.25pm,“ he said. Ranpise said his personnel removed two LPG cylinders, 10-15 hydrogen cylinders and inflammable chemical containers from the building and also ensured that the fire did not spread to the adjacent lab.
 
 Fire incidents have been reported from the NCL lab in the past too. In August 2009, a major fire had occurred in the catalysis division on the first floor of the NCL building. In January 2003, a fire was reported in the organic technical branch of the NCL.
 
