BAREILLY: Hundreds of   who attended  , a convention organized by BJP for them here on Friday, said demonetisation was a good step for taking on black money but pointed out that they faced severe inconvenience and losses due to unavailability of cash. Farmers told TOI that as they could not withdraw money from banks, they failed to get adequate amount of fertilizer, affecting quality of crop. Many said they were forced to take loans from moneylenders to buy agricultural inputs.
 
  BJP organized Mati-Tilak Pratigya to woo farmers ahead of the state assembly elections. Though hundreds of farmers across the district gathered at the event, they told TOI that they were hit hard by demonetisation.
  
  Shyamlal, a farmer from Meerganj, said, “Though I stood in queues a few times outside bank, I failed to withdraw money on time and I could only get Rs 2,000 currency notes from the ATM, which was insufficient. As I did not have the cash, I could not purchase adequate quantity of fertiliser and pesticide for my wheat crop. My crop got damaged because proper care was not taken and I ended up incurring a loss of Rs 10,000.”
  
  Another farmer, Gaya Prasad from   said, “Unable to withdraw money or exchange currency notes at the bank, I was forced to take a loan from a moneylender at an interest rate of 10%. This time, the delay in sowing of wheat and mustard will lead to less yield.” He added, “I support demonetisation as it affected the rich and corrupt but it affected my crop this season. I will also have to pay interest later.”
  
  A resident of Bijamau village in Nawabganj, Tarlok Ram Gangwar, said, “Bank officials gave money only to big traders and made us leave even after waiting in serpentine queues for days. We failed to get money to purchase fertiliser, seeds and bear the cost of diesel.” Another farmer, Ramveer, from Golenagra village in Fatehganj West said, “We are habitual of standing in queues for purchasing every item of need but this time, we could not get cash when we needed it most. We had to borrow money and now, will have to pay interest rate which is an additional burden on us.”
  
  However, BJP MP from Aonla, Dharmendra Kashyap who was the chief guest here while addressing farmers claimed that Prime Minister   has been taking steps for the welfare of the community. He also mentioned about the schemes introduced by the Centre for farmers. Hitting out at Congress vice-president   who had organized “khat sabhas’ across UP, Kashyap said, “A man who is unaware whether potatoes grow on trees or underground or how red chillies are made, has conducted khat sabhas for farmers. How can one help farmers when he is unaware about the problems faced by the community.”
