HYDERABAD: The stage is set for centenary celebrations at   with authorities swinging into action to make the fete a grand success.The three-day event, to be held between April 26 and 28, is expected to attract close to 50,000 people.

 The university has identified three venues for the celebra ed three venues for the celebrations --Arts College, A Grounds and Tagore Auditorium.“Three huge stages are being set up inside the campus where the inaugural function, cultural programmes and seminars will be held. Majority of the programmes such as alumni meet will be held at A Grounds as it can hold over 20,000 people. While the inauguration function and cultural programmes will be held at  , the seminar on higher education will be held at the  ,“ said H Venkateshwarlu, special officer for the centenary celebrations.
 
 Also on the cards is a laser show at the Arts College, apart from an expansive spread of authentic Hyderabadi food that will be served to students residing in hostels, teaching and non-teaching staff among other guests. All buildings within the premises will also be illuminated for the mega event.
 
 Clubbed under the theme, `100 years, 100 voices and one soul', the cultural programmes will be peppered with performances by local OU students, international students and artistes roped in by the Telangana government's department of culture. “Every   will be put together by 100 students. A special fiveminute programme on the theme `sare jahaan se accha' will also be presented during the inaugural function,“ said Venkateshwarlu. Apart from this, the university will also screen a documentary showcasing 100 years of OU, made by students of the mass communication and journalism department.
 
 To ensure a glitch-free event, the university has tied up with various wings such as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) , fire and electricity department and traffic police.
 
 On the guest list will be a host of eminent Hyderabadis including politicians, professionals, industry experts etc. “Also, there will be strict vigil on those participating in the celebrations. A link on the official website has been developed wherein interested participants can register with their Aadhaar number. Those who do not register will not be allowed to enter the campus,“ said Venkateshwarlu.
 
