AURANGABAD: With no takers for more than half of the   (billboards) across the city, the outdoor advertising sector seems to be having one of the worst phases in the recent years. The poor demand has also led to 25% dip in the prices.

 Blaming the downward trend to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetisation move in November last year, the hoarding owners said most of the clients are now on the back foot.
 
 “Of the total 400 hoardings in the city, there are no takers for more than 200 of them for the past two months. In addition to this, the gantries and street light pole advertising businesses have also witnessed a downfall,” said  , president of Aurangabad Association of Outdoor Advertising.
 
 Habib said almost all clients from the real estate sector are not spending money on advertising because of the slowdown. “Similarly, educational institutes, coaching classes and even multi-national companies are not coming forward. It is one of the worst phases I have seen in the sector in last 10 to 15 years,” he said.
 
 Habib said the hoarding industry has gone through many ups and downs. “The previous slowdowns were for very short time and did not cause much financial loss to the hoarding owners. But the prevailing scenario is quite different where almost half of the hoardings are laying vacant for more than two months. Adding to the woes, we are not receiving even enquires which means that the slowdown would continue for next two to three months,” he said.
 
 Ashish Chatterjee, another hoarding owner, said the advertisers are shying away from buying outdoor advertising space. “Many prime location hoardings are vacant which clearly reflects the market sentiments. There used to be a fierce competition among clients to occupy the hoardings on Jalna Road, Kranti Chowk, railway station and bus stands. Clients used to book these sites well in advance. But today hoarding on these sites are lying vacant,” he said.
 
 Chatterjee said the poor demand has eventually slashed the prices by about 25%. “In December and January, only a handful of clients came forward but their budget was not great. They want to spend little money on advertising and thus we have offered them hoardings at throw away prices,” he said.
 
