Shares of oil marketing companies (OMCs) are soaring on the bourses. With crude oil prices making a strong recovery, shares of all the three state-run OMCs hit a 52-week high on Wednesday. While Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) surged 5% during the day, the most among the three firms, Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) jumped 4% and 3.9% respectively on the BSE. 

 The HPCL scrip saw the highest increase so far in January—jumping 23.2% on the BSE—and was followed by IOC that zoomed 17% and BPCL that went up by 11.8%. The benchmark Sensex and the broader Nifty indices advanced by 2.8% and 3.5% respectively during the timeframe.
 
 The counters at all three OMCs witnessed brisk activity with the total traded shares far exceeding the average quantity traded in the past two weeks. About 6.28 lakh IOC shares changed hands on Wednesday on the BSE, which is more than two times the average of the preceding two weeks. 
 
 Despite the rise in crude oil prices, the OMCs have been able to take price hikes to maintain gross marketing margin of about Rs. 2.7 per litre (including freight) on diesel and petrol during the third quarter (Q3) of the current financial year.
 
 The gross marketing margins are higher than Rs. 2.3 per liter when oil prices were regulated. 
 
 “We expect marketing margins to remain higher than regulated era margins,” analysts at brokerage firm Motile Oswald Securities said. “Against the backdrop of a lower oil price regime, auto fuel pricing freedom and stable marketing margins, we retain OMCs (IOC, HPCL and BPCL) as our top picks,” they said.
 
 The rise in crude oil prices is also expected to help OMCs with inventory gains. Gross refining margins (GRMs) have zoomed 31% on a quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q) basis during Q3 while prices of ‘Brent’ crude went up 9% q-o-q.
 
 Brent has risen to $55.8 per barrel at the end of December 2016 from $35.8 per barrel during December 2015 after OPEC (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) as well as non-OPEC countries decided to cut oil production with effect from January 2017. Brent was ruling at $45.7 per barrel in the second quarter of the current financial year.
 
 “We expect OMCs’ core earnings to improve, led by an increase in refining margins q-o-q. Also, on a reported basis, earnings would increase due to inventory gains during Q3 FY17 (2016-17),” analysts tracking the sector said. Higher marketing margins, along with strong volume trends, will provide support to earnings, they said.
 
 
