For 20-year-old  , a mall is a place to shop with friends or catch the latest flick but a couple of days ago the final year art student's hangout took on a different role. Winding her way through cafes, it was not the waft of cookies and coffee that made her eager to explore the mall, but the art work which dotting the premises.

 “When I first visited the mall and discovered the   I was very excited as we were studying about him in class, but I had missed many of the other installations like the black bulbs by Sunil Gawde hanging at one of the entrances,“ said Fernando at the end of the art tour organised earlier this week at Phoenix MarketCity Mall, Velachery.
 
 Such an initiative is better than a theory class, as well as a great learning experience for art enthusiasts. But as more such plans to take art out of the galleries take shape, it also opens up a debate on whether this helps in art appreciation or remains an aesthetic effort.
 
 Anything that goes into promotion of art is good, feels city-based sculptor S Nandagopal though he does not like the idea of displaying art in a mall, railway station or airport as he feels art needs a particular environment to build an interest. “At the Bengaluru airport, there is a mural by the now late   representing a flight. during one of my visits I found myself admiring it especially since he was a friend, but was rather sad to see others passing by without so much as a look at it,“ says Nandagopal, who feels restaurants may be slightly better options for promoting art since people are more relaxed there.
 
 Phoenix MarketCity Centre Director Murugan Rajan says they have tied up with NGO ArtC to curate the art tour for the mall, he feels the idea will set the creative ball rolling among the uninitiated.“A tour of the existing artwork in the mall made sense because we had seen many people take photographs with the sculptures and installations,“ says Rajan.
 
 “It's more in the conditioning,“ says Nandagopal.“Abroad, museum passes are given to children, urging them to explore and sketch the works of masters, but in India going to a museum is a more recent concept.“
 
 Piquing the curiosity of people is motivation enough and a stepping stone to make art interesting, feels Senthil Ram, owner of Splatter Studio, has tied up with cafes and restaurants for a mobile exhibition called the 'Wall of Celebration'. “It's a start to break perceptions of art being elitist and expensive. Art appreciation and buying come later,“ says Ram, who has got 20 senior and young artists to display their work at That Madras Place, Adyar. To make the art more relatable, Ram has organised interactions with the artists, which he hopes will turn into sales.
 
 Though the concept may seem new, it is said in the late 19th century, artists like   and Claude Monet had tried to draw attention to their work by displaying their paintings in a working class pub but failed to make an impression.
 
 Art in public spaces is all about presentation, says art critic  . “A lecture on art history will not make a cut. It has to be made entertaining with trivia about the artist or analogies to contemporary ideas. Also, promotion of affordable art is the way forward at a time when few are ready to invest in art,“ she says.Though murals at railway stations help to brighten up the walls, and paintings on display at a restaurant are a conversation starter, it remains to be seen if they translate to a deeper engagement of the creative mind.
 
