Mumbai: “Had the authorities heeded to my tweets and widened the foot over-bridge (FOB) at Elphinstone station, Friday’s tragedy could have been avoided,” said cartoonist Manjul, responding to the stampede. 

 His tweet in February this year had specifically warned of an impending disaster. “Pre-rush hour Parel station. The only staircase which people use to exit and enter the station. A major accident is waiting to happen.”
 
 Like Manjul, there were many others who had warned railway officials and the government about the perilous conditions but the warnings resulted in no action. The tweets had even tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as former and current railway ministers Suresh Prabhu and Piyush Goyal.
 
 Just four days ago, journalist Santosh Andhale had tweeted an image from the crowded Parel bridge. Andhale’s September 26 tweet directed at the railway minister said, “@PiyushGoyal sir pls do something related to this Parel bridge in Mumbai. Thanks @WesternRly.
 
 But the Western Railway just passed the buck since the bridge comes on the Central line. WR tweeted, “Matter fowarded to @Central_Railway pls.” 
 
 Other commuters have written to railway officials and local representatives over the years without much effect. 
 
 Local resident Rajesh Bansode said that he had written to the railways for the last 7 years asking for the expansion of Elphinstone’s FOB. “For the last 7 years, I have been writing to the railway authorities. Parel is another disaster waiting to happen as there is no exit at the Parel end. Elphinstone at least has two,” he said.
 
 Local residents said they had been demanding alternate routes on Parel and Elphinstone stations for the speedy dispersal of passengers. It was particularly difficult to exit at rush hour, they said. 
 
 “Following our requests, railway officials and elected representatives did visit the Parel-Elphinstone stations, but it was a customary visit and there was absolutely no follow up action,’’ said a prominent resident.
 
 Commuters said the government was more concerned about installing WiFi at stations than passenger safety. “Our stations do not have basic amenities, while cabinet members were busy in installing WiFi on stations. We don’t need WiFi, we need more FOBs, particularly on stations like Parel and Elphinstone,’’ said a local resident.
 
 Another hazard, locals said was that the entire approach road to Parel and Elphinstone stations has been taken over illegal and hawkers who enjoy political patronage. “If BMC removes the hawkers, local politicians stall BMCs action. We feel that local police should book these politicians and put them behind bars,” he said.
 
 A citizen Kawaljit Singh Bedi who uses tweeter handle @BandishSatra claimed that that he had warned the officials of the tragedy waiting to happen at Elphintone in a series of tweets. He tagged Suresh Prabhu first on February 2 this year: “@sureshprabhu serious risk of stampede and loss of lives at parel station overbridge leading to exit towards elphinstone.” Then, on February 4, he tweeted again, tagging Prabhu: “Request your intervention in getting a new railway overbridge constructed at parel station leading towards elphinstone exit.” 
 
 On August 30, he says, he reminded Prabhu yet again: “No action till date. Same situation since years. Can railway enlarge or not construct a new overbridge from Parel station to Elphintsone.” On Friday as the news of stampede came in, an exasperated Bedi tweeted, tagging Prabhu again even when he is no longer railway minister: “At last stampede has happened today. Had highlighted the problem long back but no action. Really sad situation.”
 
 
