 will have a tough task having a   that glows green when approaching the sun, and will offer a celestial treat from April 1 (when it is closest to earth at 21 million km) to April 3.

 This picture of the Green Comet was taken on March 22 as the comet passed the spiral surfboard galaxy M108 in the background. Photo by Yasushi Aoshima Courtesy: spaceweather.com
 
 Called the Green Comet, and designated 41P/Tuttle-Giacobini-Kresak, astronomers and space enthusiasts describe it as an impressive comet as it glows green and is almost visible to the naked eye, though a backyard   would provide a distinctly clearer view.
 
 Sadly, those interested in seeing this comet (it appears every 1,978 days) from Bengaluru, will be in for disappointment, thanks to the city’s air pollution, lights and high-rises (the comet is low over the northern horizon).
 
 Pramod G Galgali, joint director, Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, told Bangalore Mirror that Nandi Hills is the ideal location to view the comet as it is located north of Bengaluru and offers a clear night sky for viewing.
 
 However, that possibility can be ruled out as Nandi Hills is closed to visitors from 6pm to 6 am, and according to the website spaceweather.com, the best time to watch the comet is the dark hours before sunrise – any time after 3 am and before the break of dawn.
 
 Chikkaballapur district police, under whose jurisdiction Nandi Hills falls, told Bangalore Mirror that any relaxation in time restriction on Nandi Hills would require a special permission from the Chikkaballapur district collector; but there is no time.
 
 But all hope is not lost yet. Those heading for a weekend getaway to other hills close to, and north of, the city like Avalabetta, Siddarbetta or Shivaganga would do well to carry a simple telescope if they are interested in seeing the comet. If the sky is perfectly clear, the Green Comet could almost be visible to the naked eye.
 
 “Elevated locations in the north of the city which do not have polluted air nor any light diffusing the sky view are ideal locations as the city lights will be behind you and will not obstruct the view of the celestial sky to the north,” Galgali said.
 
 One could even try to spot the comet from taller structures in the northern city outskirts – provided tall trees do not play spoilsport as the celestial show is just over the horizon.
 
 Just face the north and aim the telescope slightly above the North Star (also called Polaris or Pole Star) just over the horizon, and you will see a green-glowing fuzz ball – that’s the Green Comet, 41P/Tuttle-Giacobini-Kresak, discovered on May 3, 1858 by Horace Parnell Tuttle, L’uber Kresak and Michel Giacobini.
 
 The comet will be located higher than North Star, and slightly to the left of Little Dipper.
 
 
 
 
 Experts say the   is due to the composition of the 1.4-km diameter comet; it comprises of diatomic carbon which glows green when in vacuum. The glowing is expected to increase in intensity as it approaches the closest point to the sun on April 12-13.
 
