KOCHI: It was on November 1, 1967, that Kochi Corporation was formed merging Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Ernakulam municipalities and Palluruthy , Vyttila, Edappally and   panchayats. In the first election held in 1969, the CPM-led coalition won 13 seats while the Congress and its allies won 11 seats. The CPM selected M M Lawrence as the mayoral candidate. 

 Party members and sympathizers thronged the road in front of Kochi Corporation office in a jubilant mood as it was sure that Lawrence would become the first mayor of Kochi.
 
  As one of the councillors voted in favour of K A Kochunni Master, the Congress candidate, both the mayoral candidates got 12 votes each. Then, it was decided to draw the lot to elect the mayor. To the embarrassment of the CPM camp, luck favoured Kochunni Master and he became the first mayor. The city has come a long way since 1967 and is about to complete 50 years. During the period the city has made tremendous growth in many fronts but there are also shortcomings in certain areas.
 Waste management is one of the important areas where local bodies have to give more attention. Kochi corporation is unable to dispose of the waste and the fronts which had ruled the civic body in the last 50 years failed to implement scientific means for addressing the issue.
 
 The local body which is to distribute drinking water for denizens washed off its hands and entrusted the duty with Kerala Water Authority years ago. Another area which requires more attention from the authorities is the public transport system.
 
 “Even after all these years, the city doesn't have a master plan. All the stakeholders including political leadership, people's representatives and experts should put their heads together to develop the city in a scientific manner. Our drains which choke in a few minutes' showers, unscientific slaughterhouses, and roads etc should be redesigned,“ said K J  ,a former mayor.
 
 “Development has seen our open space shrinking to less than 1% while there should be at least 15% open space in a city . Studies show that cities like Delhi have 25% open space,“ Sohan said.
 
 Development of the city is confined to metro rail and some bridges including flyovers, the number of which grew in quick time.
 
 Kochi corporation authorities ignore the golden opportunities it got for streamlining the public transport system. The AC low-floor and non-AC low-floor buses which were given to Kochi Corporation under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) had been handed over to   as the local body failed to constitute a special purpose vehicle for the same.Now, at least half of these 170 buses are in the workshop. Decades ago, Kochi Corporation handed over the duty of running ferry service between Fort Kochi and   to a private agency .
 
 Given the fact that there are numerous projects designed by Union and state governments for urban development, funds would not be a hindrance for implementing projects. Moreover, the government provides the local body funds for implementing various projects under plan fund. The only thing needed is vision and willpower on the part of the local body authorities in implementing the projects.
 
 “All the councillors cutting across party line should make a joint effort for city's development. Earlier, there had been a coordinated effort.In the past two decades or so, such values have eroded,“ said former mayor K M Hamsa Kunju.
 
 Smart City and Amrut projects designed by the Union government for urban development and the projects like Haritham designed by the state government for decentralized waste management would certainly give a fillip to Kochi's development.
 
 Though the smart city project should have been headed by Kochi Corporation authorities, the control of the project went to the state government as the local body failed to act on time. If Corporation authorities could head the Smart City Mission, the local body would have got a clear say in designing projects under the scheme.
 
 However, mayor Soumini Jain has made it clear that the corporation would step in and decide on the priority of projects to be implemented under the scheme. Better late than never.
 
 
 
 
 The first office of Fort Kochi municipality (top). Later the office was shifted to a building which now houses the zonal office of the local body (left).The first office building of the Corporation later became an LP school. Now, the building houses Cochin Club
 
 
 
 
 The first bus service in Kochi was in the Mattancherry-Eda Kochi route in the late 1940s. During the period, there were only a few buses in Kochi. Later, inter-district services started. The photo shows (the late) M Neelakantan Nair of Mukkompilly house, Vadakkumbhagam, Edappaly who was the driver of Jai Hind bus which did service during 1953-54
 
 
 
 
 In 1934, L G Barnard became first lady chairperson of Kochi municipality. It required legislation of Panchayat Raj Act by parliament and six decades for Kochi to get its first woman mayor. Mercy Williams became the first mayor of Kochi in 1995. It was in 1664 that the Dutch formed Fort Kochi municipality. Fort Kochi became the first modern municipality in the state in 1866. Until then, British Residents would become the ex-officio chairman. Later, citizens who pay tax were given voting right. In 1873, Mattancherry municipality was formed. Ernakulam municipality was formed in 1823 for the British Residents to take care of the administration of the region.
 
