KARCHANA (ALLAHABAD): SP president and chief minister   on Tuesday attacked prime minister   once again on his (Modi) allegation that there is discrimination in distribution of power in the state and asked him to swear by Mother Ganga if there is any disparity. 

 "The Prime Minister came here and went back after charging that power is provided on the basis of religion in the state. In my village, one swears by or raises hands for Mother Ganga. When PM had gone to Varanasi to contest elections, he had stated that Mother Ganga summoned me. Now he should swear by Mother Ganga that the SP government did not provide 24-hour electricity in Varanasi," Akhilesh said at election rally in Mungari of Karchana assembly segment in support of party candidate Ujjawal Raman Singh. 
 
 "In Allahabad too, we are giving 24 hour electricity and in villages nearly 16 hour. If SP forms a government in the state, villages too will be provided 24-hour electricity," he claimed.
 
 Exhorting the people to vote for SP by repeating its government for the second straight term, Akhilesh detailed the achievements of his government like pension to poor families, and claimed that his party does not believe in discrimination, particularly on the basis religion. 
 
 The CM also attacked BJP's demonetisation scheme and said people, who were forced to stand in queues outside banks following demonetisation announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 8, will now queue up outside polling stations to reject the BJP. 
 
 Akhilesh also said that during demonetisation, the worst hit were the farmers. "I want to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi that after getting deposited a good sum of money, who is now stopping you to waive farmers' loans," he said and added, "You made queues outside bank for money, this time you queue up against BJP and cast vote in favour of SP to help it form government in the state." 
 
 Yadav made it a point to apprise people of Karchana about "Khazanchi Nath", who was born on December 2, 2016, in a bank queue after note ban.
 
 "You all have read in newspapers that a baby was born in queue, bank employees gave him a name Khazanchi Nath and we provided support of Rs 2 lakh," Akhilesh said while reminding his audience that it was only the SP government which helped the poor in the aftermath of demonetisation.
 
 He said PM did 'Mann ki baat' on radio and is now doing mann ki baat on TV. "Enough of 'mann ki baat'. Now do some 'kaam ki baat' (talk of something worthwhile)," he added.
 
 Addressing an election rally in Fatehpur on February 19, Modi had accused the state government of discrimination in power supply on the basis of religion. "...If electricity is provided on Ramzan, then it should be provided on Diwali also. There should be no discrimination," he had said.
 
