CHARMINAR: In what can give the sporting and recreation facilities in Old City a much needed boost, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has completed construction of a new indoor sports complex in  .

 The multi-purpose sports complex is the third such facility in GHMC's south zone. According to zonal commissioner (south) Srinivas Rao, the building will be inaugurated as soon as the election code of conduct stops being in force.
 
 “We are certain that the sports complex will draw youngsters. There are two other such structures which are running smoothly. It will indoor sports complex has facilities such as badminton courts and a yoga centre,“ Rao said.
 
 The structure comprises stilts for parking in addition to two upper floors. These house different spaces, including those for indoor games.
 
 According to  , executive engineer, projects wing, the sports complex has been constructed at a cost of Rs 5.12 crore. “The stilt floor has been reserved for parking. There is a large table tennis room on the first floor. The second floor has sheds which have an indoor basketball court. There will be coaches and first aid rooms as well. The average floor to ceiling height in the sheds is 8.2 metres which is 26 feet,“ he said.
 
 Observers and experts po int out that there are several young sports persons from the Old City who need encouragement. Celebrated national football player and coach   pointed out that the city has yielded many noted sports personalities. “The city has produced several footballers. Syed Raheem who is the son of noted footballer Syed Shahid Hakeem is one such example. I am a product of the  , in  ,“ he said.
 
 Others pointed out that sports persons from the Old City require better facilities, and regular government support.   rities Commissioner chairman Abid Rasool Khan said that in the past three years, he has received as many as 20 representations from talented, but struggling sports persons. “From the medals and certificates which were produced, it is clear that they are achievers. Many of them come from humble backgrounds. They need the government's support. They need financial assistance for Training and specialised diet. The government should call for applications every year and select deserving candidates who should later be sponsored,“ he said.
 
