PUNE: The  , in  , has started   of passengers at the  .

 Authorities claimed it was a ‘routine’ procedure ahead of the Republic Day. But sources stressed that an intelligence alert on some terrorists sneaking into the country prompted the initiative. “The terrorists, according to the alert, have managed to procure the uniform of army,” one of the sources said.
 
 “The secondary ladder point checking (SLPC) checks have been initiated at the airport. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) sounded a red alert earlier and stringent security measures were in place. The extra checks have been initiated to ensure that there are no security lapses under any circumstances and passengers are safe,” an official of the CISF told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The SLPC check involves a final round of checking of passengers and their belongings once the mandatory checks of the CISF is completed. It is done by the airline officials just when the passengers are about to board the aircraft. The check, which involves another round of thorough frisking and hand baggage check, is done near the boarding point.
 
 “One can call it a normal standard operating procedure done a fortnight before Republic Day and Independence Day. We have been carrying it out in the airport and ensuring that the passengers do not face any kind of hassles or problems,” an airline official in Pune told TOI, requesting anonymity.
 
 According to reports and intelligence alerts, seven terrorists have sneaked into the country from the Punjab side. They have reportedly procured uniforms of the Indian Army. Subsequently, an alert has been sounded in different parts of the country, including Delhi. 
 
 The CISF, apart from directing their personnel to be alert at the airports, have also requested airlines to carry out SLPC.
 
 “All necessary precautions are being taken to secure the airport here. We are on high alert and active all the time. As far as the passengers are concerned, they should try and arrive at the airport a bit early to avoid any kind of hassles,” another CISF official said.
 
 In case of domestic flights, passengers are generally asked to report to the airport at least an hour before the flight is scheduled to take-off.
 
 “Under these situations, the passengers intending to travel to domestic destinations are advised to reach the airport at least an hour-and-a-half before the scheduled departure time of the aircraft. In this way, they will not get hassled and things will be smooth for them. The international fliers should try to reach the airport at least half-an-hour before the time they are advised to report,” an airline official said.
 
 The Times of India had reported on Wednesday that the Lohegaon airport had been put on red alert ahead of Republic Day. Adequate security measures have been taken to deal with any eventuality. The focus is on parking lots, abandoned vehicles, and suspicious people and objects. 
 
 Passengers coming to the airport are being thoroughly checked at the departure gate. Their luggage is being monitored through baggage scanners set up near the departure gate. It has been decided that the baggage scanner machines set up there will not be removed.
 
 Besides luggage, passengers are being told to open their jackets or coats and place them on the scanners for proper scrutiny before they enter the airport and go for check-in.
 
 The number of CISF personnel in plain clothes has been increased in and around the airport. They are keeping a close eye on any suspicious activities. Random checks of vehicles and passengers have been initiated.
 
 Last September, the airport authorities had stated that the bar code feature in e-tickets would be implemented soon at the Lohegaon facility to clamp down on those showing fake e-tickets and sneaking inside. 
 
 The system has been in place in the airports of Hyderabad and Bengaluru. But it has not started at the Pune airport as yet.
 
