MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act court on Wednesday sentenced a 26-year-old man to seven years in jail for raping a 15-year-old girl in his neighbourhood over seven months in 2013. The   came to light after the victim’s mother found she was eight months  . 

 The court refused to accept that Vishnu Kaul had been falsely implicated by the minor’s family and that he and the victim were in a consensual relationship. The court observed that in tradition-bound Indian society, it was very difficult for an unmarried pregnant girl and her family to live and face people’s taunts. “It takes a lot of courage to lodge a complaint in rape cases, and that too when the girl is pregnant. Even the accused had not denied the physical relations kept with the victim. There is no reason for the victim or informant to falsely implicate the accused only on refusal by his parents to perform his marriage with her,” the court said. It said no girl would dare put her dignity, reputation and honour at stake.
 
 The victim told court that in 2013 she was in class VII. She said her mother worked as a domestic help. She said she used to go to Vihar Lake, which was close to her home, to wash clothes. Once, in June 2013, the accused came there and asked her if she frequented the place. She told him that she came twice a week. She said about three weeks later, when she went there, the accused came, grabbed her arm and took her behind the bushes. He then touched her inappropriately. When she protested, he slapped her, assaulted and raped her. 
 
 She said he threatened her and forbid her from revealing the incident. She said after a few days, he telephoned her and threatened to tell everyone if she did not come to the lake. Frightened, she went to the spot, when he raped her again. She revealed that this continued over few months. She said during the last call, she told him she was unwell and was feeling nauseous. Sensing she was pregnant, he told her to wear loose clothes and not tell anyone about her symptoms. 
 
 During the later stages of pregnancy when she complained of stomach pain, her mother noticed that her stomach had grown bigger. The mother took her to hospital and a sonography revealed she was pregnant. She then revealed the rape to her mother. The mother lodged a police complaint and the child was sent to a protection home, where she gave birth to a girl. The accused was later arrested.
 
