Chandigarh: Almost two-and-a-half years after senior Haryana bureaucrat Ashok Khemka’s name was considered for deputation to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) by the Civil Services Board (CSB), it has now emerged that his case was never placed before the appointments committee of the Cabinet (ACC). 

 Replying to an appeal before the before the Central Information Commission (CIC) on a plea seeking information about a copy of the agenda item before CSB on Khemka’s appointment, the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT) has said that the matter is still pending before ACC and cannot be disclosed under RTI.
 
 Sources however said that the rules state that a case cleared by CSB in July 2014 can’t remain on hold for such long time because Khemka was considered for appointment to PMO under Centre Staffing Scheme (CSS) 2014, the period for which expired on March 31, 2015.
 
 CIC has now directed the central government to provide a copy of the agenda along with minutes of the meeting of the CSB on Khemka’s appointment. In its January 18 order, the CIC bench headed by information commissioner Sudhir Bhargava has set a deadline of four weeks for DOPT to supply the information to Khemka. The orders have come after DOPT rejected his application to provide the details.
 
 Many had expected Khemka to get a prominent posting in the central government after BJP used the land deal in Gurgaon between Robert Vadra’s firm and DLF ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as a symbol of the Congress’s alleged misrule. The issue was first raised by Khemka in 2013 when he had cancelled the mutation of the land deal on the grounds of irregularities.
 
 In the past two-and-half years, however, he has not been given a central deputation and also transferred to inconsequential posts in his parent Haryana government. He was appointed transport commissioner and secretary of Haryana’s transport department in December 2014 after the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government assumed took over. But he was shifted within 126 days after he raised issues related to overloading of transport vehicles. He was posted back to archeology and museum department which is seen as a punishment posting. In April 2016, he was posted as principal secretary, science and technology, where he serving at present.
 
 
