NOIDA: The   of  , who are on an endless wait for delivery of their houses, have now reached out to the   to bolster their movement against builders, Credai,   Authority and the state government.

 According to the buyers, Noida Extension has over 58 housing projects with over three lakh apartments. Of these, only 15,000 have been delivered so far. On Sunday, they staged a protest with the slogan, ‘No House No Vote’, calling over 10,000 buyers in the area to boycott the forthcoming polls. 
 
 They have also decided to take the protest forward in the coming weeks. Farmers from Greater Noida are now expected to join their rallies.
 
 Ironically, one major delay for the construction of the houses between 2009 and 2011 was the protest by farmers against the  . This period in Greater Noida West’s real estate construction history, termed ‘zero period’, is applicable for payments of penalties and fines on both the buyers and the builders.
 
 “We will support homebuyers in their protests. Whatever form of protest they choose to adopt, we are ready to join forces with them, because both farmers and buyers are victims. They took our land in the name of industry, but actually built houses for people. Now the people they built the houses for are not getting them. This shows both farmers and the homebuyers have been duped. We will join all rallies with the buyers in the weeks to come,” Teekam Singh from Patwari village of Greater Noida, a representative of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, buyers have announced continuous protests every weekendagainst the builders, Credai and Noida Authority.
 
 “This week we held a road rally, a slogan protest and a Twitter protest against Credai, builders and Noida Authority. We have called for a poll-ban and a movement on Twitter, ‘#NoHouseNoVote’. Next week, we will take our voice door to door, and urge more homebuyers, who have not received their promised houses so far, to desist from casting votes. The farmers have agreed to support us in this movement,” Abhishek Kumar, president, Nefowa, said.
 
 
