MUMBAI: The   on Monday budgeted Rs 20,000 crore for the loan   scheme, as a part of the Rs 33,553 crore   tabled in both   of the legislature.

 But finance department officials said of the Rs 33,553 crore supplementary expenditure demand, the state government only has funds to meet demand worth Rs 5,555 crore, and the remaining Rs 27,998 crore will have to be raised. The Rs 27,998 crore includes payouts for farm loan waiver and compensation the state government has to pay urban local bodies for loss of revenue after octroi and local body tax (LBT) were subsumed by the Goods and Services Tax (GST), for which Rs 7,353 crore has been budgeted.
 
 Senior department officials said this is an exercise to make allocations but funds to realise these allocations will have to be generated or raised from sources other that the state government’s current revenue.
 
 Supplementary expenditure is a revised estimate of the budget which the government undertakes following unplanned work that was not part of the original budget, or if there an increase in allocation for planned work.
 
 Officials said the state government hopes to mop up revenue worth nearly Rs 10,000 crore from austerity guidelines and so the 30% cut in developmental plan expenses.
 
 “To raise Rs 27,998 crore remains a a challenge for the government. Besides cutting down on unwanted expenses, we are looking at taking other steps to put together the amount. Digging deeper into our pockets and open market borrowings are some options we are exploring,” said an official.
 
 The state is staring at a Rs 4.13 lakh crore debt but still has decent fiscal space to increase borrowings. State borrowing stands at 16.4% of the state gross domestic product and 20% is a comfortable position; beyond that is a dangerous mark to cross, said officials.
 
 Chief minister Devendra   said this is only an initial allocation.   in both Houses staged a walkout over norms for loan waiver and said the government should announce a full waiver so that maximum farmers benefit.
 
 MONEY TALK
 
 Supplementary demands | Rs33,553cr 
 
 Farm loan waiver | Rs20,000cr 
 
 Compensation for revenue loss after GST | Rs7,353cr 
 
 State government 40% share in national rural health mission | Rs679cr
 
 Grants to urban local bodies to complete basic infrastructure work | Rs553cr
 
 Premium for Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Abhiyan | Rs690cr
 
 
