NOIDA: Two   of   Amrapali were arrested by the   on Monday for failing to pay an   of Rs 4 crore. CEO Rithik Sinha and director Nishant Mukul have been remanded in judicial custody, officials said. Sinha is also the son-in-law of Amrapali’s CMD Anil Sharma.

 District magistrate BN Singh said: “The company had an outstanding labour cess of Rs 1.99 crore in 2014. However, when it failed to pay, a penal interest amounting to Rs 83 lakh was imposed on the realtor, besides a penalty of Rs 1.72 crore... We have also sealed their head office in Sector 62 of Noida”
 
 Despite repeated attempts,   officials could not be contacted.
 
 The DM added: “A final recovery notice was issued in March this year, but when the builder failed to pay up, we took action on Monday. The two executives have been lodged in the Dadri tehsil jail and will remain there until the dues are paid.”
 
 The district administration arrested the two under provisions of the Land Revenue Act. The Dadri tehsildar made the arrest.
 
 “Both realtors and individuals who spend over Rs 10 lakh on construction come under the ambit of labour cess. It is mandatory to pay 1% of the total cost of the construction to the labour department as labour cess. In line with the central legislation, the Building and the Other Construction Workers Cess Act, 1996, the state government collects this levy stringently to fund welfare schemes for construction labourers,” Singh said.
 
 “The development agencies governing an area have to ensure that the cess is collected and deposited in a specially created bank account before handing out any commencement certificates for the project. However, the law has not been implemented strictly up to now, leading to many property owners flouting it. If streamlined, the entire collection and disbursement processes can impact lakhs of labourers,” the DM said.
 
 The UP government had adopted this provision in 2009. According to district records, there are around 89,000 registered labourers working at 4,000 construction sites in Noida and Greater Noida.
 
 Deputy labour commissioner BK Rai said, “We have issued recovery notices to another seven builders in the district who owe the government nearly Rs 10 crore. We will take stringent action against those who are not paying labour cess.”
 
