Mumbai, the city that never sleeps or stops, seemingly refuses to get out of the bed and walk up to the polling booth to vote for the BMC elections. Since 1992, the voting percentage for civic polls has not even touched the 50% mark. Typically, areas with middle-class and lower-class population see a fair amount of   turnout, however, since the affluent don’t come out and vote, the overall average is reduced to a dismal number.

 In the 2012 civic polls, when the overall average voter turnout of the city was 44.75%, Bhandup and Powai saw 49.5% polling and voting in the middle-class belt of Dadar, Parel and Worli too was in the range of 48 to 46%. The reason for the abysmal turnout was the tony areas of Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point, Malabar Hill, Bandra and Juhu that recorded 34.15 to 41% polling.
 
 Indrani Malkani, managing trustee of VCAN, an organization that works with the election commission to boost voter  , said, “People in affluent areas are not connected with the electoral process. Their apathetic attitude is either due to laziness or ignorance about the exercise.” She pointed out another key reason for the indifference: “People living in posh areas don’t aspire for better services. They feel that money works in Mumbai; even if they don’t vote and as long as they have money, they can get services they deserve.”
 
 Activists say the voter turnout in these posh wards is still in double digits because of the presence of slums and low-income groups who are politically more active. For instance, the votes of those residing in Macchimar Nagar in A ward or Girgaum in D ward or Versova Koliwada in K-west ward form a sizeable portion of the total polling in these pockets. “People in these areas feel the pinch of the lack of basic amenities like water supply much more than their posh neighbours and that is why they come out to vote. The influence of other attractions like cash or liquor or small favours too works more in these areas,” said a four-term corporator.
 
 But experts feel the middle-class too is detached. Deepak Pawar, faculty at the department of civics and politics, University of Mumbai, said the low turnout is on account of the middle-class’s apathy. “The middle-class has a split personality. It is concerned about democracy when there is a terror attack but not when it comes to voting. With politicians busy tarnishing each other’s image, instead of talking development, the middle-class feels disillusioned,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Patil, research assistant at department of civics and politics, Mumbai University, who has been studying municipal elections for 18 months, says the “low turnout” remark is misleading. “The voter list needs to be revised by the election commission periodically. It is updated after election results. A large number of names need to be deleted. People move cities as they buy a new house, get married, get a new job, etc but their names continue to be on the list,” he said. Patil said most of the candidates begin their poll strategy by going through the voters’ list. “Missing voters come handy for candidates as they can be used for dummy voting.”
 
  But this civic election is not like any other; every vote will make a difference. “The fight is multi-cornered as there are no party alliances. It means every vote will count,” said a political expert. In the absence of alliances, there is expected to be division of votes leading to a cut-thr-oat contest and small-margin wins in almost all wards. Over the years, the number of seats won with smaller margins have gone up, said officials, adding that this time, it will rise further. There were 38 such seats in 2012 & 28 in 2007. Also, the fact that this time there are fewer voters in each ward—between 30,000 and 62,000—and more candidates, average 10 in each ward, may alter the winning margins.
 
 
