PUNE: Aussies can look forward to savouring the Indian mangoes this season.The country's first consignment of mangoes to   has been dispatched. Before dispatch, the fruits were irradiated at the irradiation facility of the   (BARC) at   in   district.

 The first consignment of 1,224kg of mangoes of Kesar variety was exported on May 4 by the Mumbai-based firm Kay Bee Exports. The irradiated fruits were processed and packaged at Air Cargo Complex of Halcon at Ozar, before being dispatched to Australia from the Mumbai airport. Halcon is a joint venture company between the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and the Container Corporation of India (Concor). An official from Halcon said the first consignment of mangoes was sent from Nashik to Mumbai airport by road and then by air to Australia on Thursday . This is for the first time that the mangoes have been exported to Australia after being processed at the irradiation centre here, said an official from Lasalgaon irradiation centre.
 
 Kaushal Kakkad from Kay Bee Exports said, “We exported 408 boxes of mangoes of Kesar variety to Australia and each box contained around 3 kg mangoes. There is a small Indian community there, but Australian community prefers quality mangoes.Hence, there is good scope for Indian mangoes there. We are planning to export 100 tonnes during the current mango season, which will continue till June-end.“
 
 The country has already been exporting irradiated mangoes to the USA for the past few years and has now got access to the Australian market. However, it is mandatory to export irradiated mangoes, which can be processed only at Lasalgaon irradiation centre of BARC and another irradiation centre of Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) at Vashi.
 
 In 2002, the BARC had set up the irradiation centre at Lasalgaon, which is also known as KrushakKrushi Utpadan Sanrakshan Kendra. The centre, which is located 70 km from Nashik city , was dedicated to the nation by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on October 31, 2002. This irradiation facility at Lasalgaon is commercially operated by the Vasai-based Agrosurg Irradiators India Pvt Ltd.
 
