NEW DELHI: During campaigning for the municipal polls, the politicians are expected to pitch   to the daily woes of garbage management, but all that the parties have in mind are waste-to-energy plants and the vagueness contained in the phrase “use of modern technology”.

 The   do not have an end plan for Delhi’s overexploited landfills that continue to be plagued by frequent fires, which aggravate the already dire pollution situation. Experts say the waste-to-energy plants aren’t the best way to manage garbage either.
 
 “We will replicate what the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has done by deploying fixed compactors for collection and transportation of municipal solid waste,” offered a senior   leader, perhaps unaware that sanitation experts feel compactors discourage segregation of waste by compacting mixed trash that eventually ends up at landfills or energy plants.
 
 Ajay Maken, Delhi Congress president, while declaring that “there is a need to bring in new ways of handling waste”, suggested no specific ideas. For its part, Aam Aadmi Party continued to rely on segregation and waste-to-energy plants, having approved three such plants in its recent state budget.
 
 Waste management experts, however, point out that Delhi’s unsegregated waste has a low calorific value that makes it unsuitable for energy generation. According to the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), the calorific value of Indian waste is 800-1,000 kcals when it should be at least 2,000 kcal to be suitable for incineration. When unsegregated waste is burnt to generate power, toxins can be released into the air. Even compost made from mixed waste is of poor quality.
 
 “The waste-to-energy model has failed in the country. It’s a very expensive technology requiring high capital investment,” said Swati Sambyal, manager for CSE’s environmental governance programme. “The contractors charge a high tipping fee, making the power too costly at around Rs 7.6 per unit for the discoms to purchase.” 
 
 Shashi Bhushan Pandit of the All India Kabadi Mazdur Mahasangh said he had hoped AAP would involve the unorganised sector in recovering recyclable material and segregating organic waste for civic use. But he now apprehends loss of livelihoods for waste pickers since the focus has turned to waste-to-energy plants. Pandit said, “The budget clearly promotes waste for use in power generation. BJP and Congress will anyway not involve waste pickers because waste-to-energy plants comprise big-ticket investments.” 
 
 Pandit perhaps has a point. In cities that have successfully dealt with the problem, the basics involve proper segregation at source, retrieval of recyclables and utilisation of organic waste. This aspect is nowhere on the municipal election agenda in Delhi. 
 
