AURANGABAD: The city’s main water supply line has developed six new leakages a week after the civic administration shut down the entire pipeline to plug about 35 leakages. Municipal authorities who started yet another shut down on Thursday for repair said that the new leakages had developed because of the increase in the water pressure. 

 The repair work was in progress at the time of going to the press, but the municipal authorities said that they will restore the line by Thursday night.
 
 Sectional engineer,   ( ),   told TOI that water pressure in both the main lines increased because of the recent repair work. “Last week, we plugged nearly 35 leakages that reduced the water losses and eventually increased the water pressure in the pipelines. But it seems like the existing set up cannot withstand additional pressure as confirmed by the new leakages at some spots,” he said. 
 
 Dhande said that water pressure in the 1,200mm line went up to 9.3 kg per square cm from 8.9 kg per square cm after the recent repair and maintenance work. Similar hike in water pressure was also noticed in the 700mm line where it went up to a level from 8.8 kg per square cm from the previous mark of 8.5 kg per square cm. 
 
 Residents were overjoyed after the additional pressure resulted in an increase in the water quantity by about 3 to 4 MLD, which is enough to the meet requirements of about 10,000 citizens. But the old and fragile pipes, joints and air valves could not sustain the pressure and the line developed leakages. The authorities have identified six new leakages on the 1,200mm thickness pipeline while possibility of similar leakages on 700mm line cannot be ruled out. 
 
 Most of the air valves and joints on both the main pipelines being used for lifting water from   dam are over 25-years-old. Apart from this, thickness of the 1,200 mm and 700 mm pipelines has reduced to a large extent due to the constant friction, which increases the chances of leakages. 
 
 The authorities lift 150-160 MLD water from the dam but due to leakages less than 110-115 MLD water reaches the city. Several areas in the city faced   on Thursday, as supply in many localities was disrupted. 
 
 Last week, when the authorities had availed the mega block that lasted for over 40 hours, residents across the city had faced severe water scarcity. The officials had claimed that it would improve the supply line between Jayakwadi dam and the city. But, the repair has only revealed the pathetic condition of the water supply system and the immediate need for the civic body to find a long-lasting solution for the issue. 
 
