INDORE: To bring   under control, Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation (MPSTDC) has instructed   to use   (ACs) at a minimum temperature of 23 to 24 degree Celsius to  

 “The move has been decided upon to save electric usage at our units. Our focus is to control excess usage,” said Jaimon Mathew, a general manager with the corporation. He said running an AC at ambient temperatures (considered to be between 23 and 24 degree Celsius in the state) reduces the run time of its compressor, which in turn saves power.
 
 The instruction has been issued to all six regions of MPSTDC and the directive will apply to all 71 of the corporation’s hotel units across the state. Twelve of these are in Indore.
 
 Officials said the decision has been taken so that apart from saving on electricity bills, tourists will not have to be inconvenienced. The difference of indoor and outdoor temperatures should be more than 20 degrees Celsius. As in summers, the temperature goes up to 40-45 degrees Celsius in the state and setting ACs to ambient temperature will ensure rooms are conveniently cool.
 
 Electrical department officials of the corporation said that similarly even conventional lights will be replaced with LEDs and old Air Conditioners (ACs) will also be replaced with high tech inverter ACs. “Replacing 3-star and non-star ACs older than 10 years with new inverter ones will save on electricity costs. This will reduce electricity consumption by 25 percent,” they said.
 
 The corporation has decided to replace conventional CFL lights installed at its hotel unit with compact fluorescent LED bulbs. “They give off the same amount of light as a conventional bulb while using only a third of the power and last 10 times longer,” said official.
 
 Senior technical officer with LG (Indore)   said fixing the temperature at 23 degrees Celsius provides stability to the compressor. “Everyone knows ACs come at the cost of high electricity bills. Although cooling does take up a lot of electricity, taking effective steps can surely bring it down. Energy consumption in this case will reduce if the compressor runs for a smaller duration or at a stable mode,” he added.
 
