BENGALURU: A 56-year-old   allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the terrace of his 12-floor apartment in   on Monday afternoon.

 Dr Ashok Raj Koul, chief of plastic and   at   in Bommasandra, is survived by wife Dr Asha Koul, an anaesthetist at   here, and two daughters. The older daughter is studying medicine in the US, and the younger is a class 10 student in a private school.
 
 According to their neighbours in Sobha Daffodil apartment at Somasundarapalya, HSR Layout Sector VII, Dr Koul returned home from the hospital around 12.45pm in his silver Toyota Etios. “He seemed to be in panic. In fact, he banged the car door as he got out. He did not go to his flat on the fifth floor. He took the elevator straight to the terrace and leapt to his death,“ a police officer said quoting neighbours.
 
 The apartment gardeners found the body. “Jagadish, Gangadhar, Rangappa and Ramanna were trimming the grass when they heard a thud. When they looked in the direction of the noise, they saw a black shoe,“ a police officer said. Gangadhar and Jagadish thought some kids had thrown the shoe from a balcony. “But we heard other residents screaming and found Dr Koul's body,“ Jagadish told police.
 
 It's said that the surgeon came home from the hospital to drop his daughter. Police are yet to speak to his family members on what could have led to the suicide. No death note was found at the spot.
 
 Hospital security guards and housekeeping staff described the surgeon, a Kashmiri Pandit, as a softspoken gentleman. He would ask about our health and about our families. We're shocked (at his death),“ a housekeeping staff told TOI.
 
 “According to family friends, relatives and neighbours, Dr Koul may have taken the extreme step due to personal or family reasons. A close family member said the surgeon was upset for a month over an issue. He would lock himself in office and his colleagues at hospital had seen him talking anxiously on the phone last week,“ a police source said.
 
 
 
 
 Sparsh Hospital founder Dr Sharan Patil said: “Dr Koul was one of the sharpest persons and one of the most respected doctors in the country . He was almost a celebrity and an asset to our hospital. It's a great loss. We had conducted two surgeries and just after that, he went to drop his daughter home. She had come to our hospital today to work on a project. He was supposed to return and conduct a few other surgeries later in the day.“
 
 
