HUBBALLI: Activists,   and surrounding villages have shifted their focus to the state government’s  , which is likely to discuss and give its opinion on declaring Kappatagudda a conservation reserve soon.

 The   and   have already submitted its report on a public consultation meeting held to collect opinion from the public on declaring Kappatagudda a conservation reserve. This report is likely to be discussed by the Karnataka  , which is headed by the CM, in the next few days. During a public consultation meeting held on January 16 at Dambal, 249 people submitted petitions on this issue; of these, 217 were in favour of declaring Kappatagudda a conservation reserve while 32 had opposed it. The ball is now in the court of the Wildlife Board, which is likely to take up the issue soon to clear its stand.
 
 People started an agitation after the state government withdrew the notification declaring Kappatagudda a reserve in the first week of November 2016, in Gadag. Many seers under the leadership of Siddalingaswamy of Tontadarya mutt, led the agitation against the state government’s move to remove the reserve tag.
 
 Bowing to pressure from the people, the government had issued a notification declaring Kappatagudda a reserve area in December 2015. But in November last, it had withdrawn this notification citing that public consultation was not held before declaring it a conservation reserve. It forced people, seers and environmentalists to protest against the decision of the state government.
 
 Coming under pressure, the CM asked the district administration to conduct a public consultation meeting to collect public opinion on the issue. As per instructions of the government, the Gadag district administration and forest department held a public consultation meeting on January 16, where people expressed their opinion in favour of a reserve area.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests, Gadag, Yashpal Ksheersagar told TOI: “We prepared the report after compiling all petitions given during the public consultation meeting and submitted this report to the Karnataka State Wildlife Board. 
 
 More than 30 people spoke during the meet and supported conservation, while many submitted their petitions in writing. “We received a total of 249 petitions from the people, of which 37 don’t want that tag. We have submitted this report to the Board through the district administration. The Board is likely to hold a meeting and may soon announce its decision on Kappatagudda,” he added.
 
 A source said the government has no option but to declare Kappatagudda a conservation reserve, going by the overwhelming response from the people to protect the reserve area. If the government continues to delay announcing its decision, it may give rise to doubts about the government’s move and lead to protests.
 
 
 
 
 Kappatagudda declared reserve forest in 1882 during British rule
 
 Kappatgudda, spread over 33,000 hectares in Gadag district, is famous as the oasis of the arid region
 
 Covers Gadag, Dambal, Belagavi, Kalkeri, parts of Haveri and Koppal districts
 
 Home to various wildlife species, medicinal plants and rich source of water for surrounding region
 
 
 
 
 If Kappatagudda is declared a conservation reserve, those who wish to take up non-forestry activities have to seek permission from the National Wildlife Board, which protects it in a very systematic manner, keeping all animals safe. There are at least 15 gram panchayats functioning from Kappatagudda and these have given a proposal to redeclare it a conservation reserve, said a source.
 
