A day after a deputy municipal commissioner was assaulted by hawkers, all eyes were on Thane civic chief’s Sanjeev Jaiswal’s response. Many felt that Jaiswal would condemn the attack and write a customary letter to the Thane police chief demanding action. Jaiswal reached the same spot where the official was beaten up, hauled the erring hawkers and removed the illegally parked vehicles. He continued his campaign against hawkers and is determined to make the city hawker-free. 

 An 1996-batch IAS officer, Jaiswal was able to convince his subordinates that they are not alone in their battle against hawkers and anti-social elements. Jaiswal took on the anti-social elements due to the backing of Thane police chief Parambir Singh. 
 
 While Jaiswal has shown courage, the question remains if other civic chiefs will crackdown on miscreants. 
 
 House matters
 
 After J S Saharia took over as   election commissioner, he asked the then chief secretary, Swadheen Kshatriya, to allot him larger accommodation on the grounds that the post is on a par with a high court judge or election commissioner of India. Kshatriya had declined to oblige, saying that it would set a bad precedent. Kshatriya has taken over as chief commissioner, Right to Services and written to chief secretary Sumit Mullick seeking at least two flats, in view of the fact that his post is equivalent to that of a SC judge. Mullick cited the note Kshatriya had written, while turning down his request. Kshatriya had to settle for a single flat on Malabar Hill. In the recent past, many retired chief and additional chief secretaries and IPS officers have been rehabilitated, but Kshatriya was the first to be locked in a row over accommodation and official vehicle. A day after his retirement and subsequent appointment as chief commissioner, Kshatriya approached the CM, saying since the new post did not entitle him to have a vehicle, he should be allowed to retain the chief secretary’s car and bungalow till he gets an alternative accommodation. He was allowed to use the vehicle and retain the bungalow for a fortnight, but social media was flooded with information on the monthly rent he received for his flats in Mumbai and Navi-Mumbai. 
 
 Angel to the rescue
 
 At a juncture when heads of many charitable organizationsare mired in graft, Shirdi Temple Trust Chairman   has donated large sums of money from his personal account for strengthening healthcare across the state. A month after he took over the trust’s reins, Haware ensured that basic healthcare facilities at the trust’s dispensary and food were made available free. Even basic fees at the super-speciality hospital have been reduced drastically. Haware found that there was an acute shortage of ambulances in tribal and hilly parts and has drafted a plan to provide 500 ambulances in such areas in a phased manner. 
 
 
