HYDERABAD: In less than a week after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao stated law and order was his government's top priority,   (TRS) MLC   attacked two persons right in front of police personnel, including sub-inspectors (SIs), at   police station on Sunday night. As there were just a handful of personnel at the police station when the incident happened, cops from nearby stations were rushed to the location to bring the situation under control. Police arrested eight persons for the attack. But the MLC was given station bail on Monday. What happened at the police station was the culmination of what began at a function hall on Sunday night. Around 9.30pm, local   leader D Ramesh went to KVR Function hall. When he and his associates were about to go to the dining hall, the MLC allegedly made snide remarks against Ramesh, who till two years ago was an associate of Rao and a TRS functionary.

 When the MLC began abusing Ramesh, he objected. It was then that Rao and his nearly 20 associates attacked Ramesh and his friends.Guests at the function hall had to intervene to separate the two groups, Petbasheerabad police said Around 10.30pm, Ramesh, with the help of a few others, went to Petbasheerabad police station to lodge a complaint. But before he reached, Hanumanth Rao was already there. The MLC and his associates attacked him and his relative Prashanth (24) again, chasing them in the station.The two suffered bleeding injuries. The second attack was a fallout of Ramesh staring at the MLC and his followers.
 
 "Ramesh and others were attacked by the MLC at the police station in front of policemen. There were just three policemen and there was no electricity at the police station when the attack happened,'' N Sridhar, a Congress activist from Malkajgiri, told TOI. It took nearly 30 minutes for police to bring the situation under control. Senior officials sent reinforcements from   and other police stations and the victims were taken to a safe location.
 
 Cyberabad police commissioner Sandeep Shandilya said, "Petbasheerabad inspector was not at the police station as he went to record the dying declaration of a victim in a case. There were two SIs and they could catch five persons (who were arrested). The MLC fled. We will take against him too," the commissioner told TOI.
 
