MUMBAI: The presence of a twice-divorced maternal grandmother at home is no reason to take away custody of a child from the mother, the Bombay high court has ruled. A division bench of Justice   and Justice   also held that the financial capacity of the father is not the sole reason to give him custody and it is the child's welfare that is of paramount importance. The HC rejected   resident  's plea for custody of his adopted minor daughter, who is now living with his estranged wife Seema.

 Sandeep had claimed that the “atmosphere and culture“ at Seema's home was not conductive for their seven-yearold child as Seema's mother was twice married and divorced. The HC said it did not find any evidence to support that allegation and would not go into its merits. “Suffice it to say that (the claim that) Seema's mother has married twice or that she is a divorcee is not a relevant factor in deciding the entrustment of the child,“ said the judges.
 
 The HC pointed out that the child had been living with Seema since she was 18 months old and there was nothing on record to show that she had neglected the child or not provided her basic necessities due to financial constraints. “A girl child of tender years would require mother's love, care and affection,“ said the HC, adding that depriving the child of this and dislocating her from familiar surroundings would be detrimental to her interest and cause her distress. The court further cited the fact that there were no elderly female members in Sandeep's family or children of the same age group as their daughter.
 
 Sandeep's claim that Seema did not have any source of income and he was in a better financial position to take care of their daughter was also thrown out by the court. “The father's financial position cannot override considerations of the welfare of the child. Consequently , the father cannot have preferential claim over the mother solely because of his financial position. Rather, it will be in the best interest of the child if he makes a valuable contribution and takes care of the educational, medical and other needs of the child. Such an approach will ensure a healt hy growth and development of the child,“ the court concluded while dismissing San deep's applica tion seeking custody of the girl.
 
 Sandeep and Seema married in 1992. In 2008 they adopted the girl. Following marital discord, Seema left her matrimonial home in 2009 with the child. Since then Seema's mother had been living with them.
 
 In 2012, Sandeep approached the Nashik family court seeking custody of the girl.The court rejected the plea in 2015, following which he filed an appeal against the order in the high court.
 
 (Names changed to protect identities)
 
