BHOPAL: The state government on Monday refused to divulge details about multi-crore   in the assembly on the grounds that it was being investigated by Madhya Pradesh Police and   (ED), but clarified that so far 32 persons were served notices, 24 interrogated and two persons arrested in connection with the scam.

 “Investigation into the hawala scam in Katni is underway, but as far as action goes, 32 persons have been served notices for suspected  . Twenty-four persons were interrogated by the police for their links while two were arrested by the police for their involvement in the case,” said home minister Bhupendra Singh in a written statement over a query raised by Jitu Patwari, Congress MLA from Rau (Indore district).
 
 Patwari asked details about police investigation into Katni hawala scam and names of those who were served notices in the case. Patwari had sought details about progress of the investigation.
 
 “The state government outrightly refused to disclose details about action taken into Katni hawala scam, involving mining barons and local politicians. Government maintained the matter is under investigation so could not be revealed,” alleged Patwari while talking to reporters in the assembly.
 
 Katni police stumbled upon the multi-crore hawala scam when it was keeping a watch on unnamed accounts and transactions apart from monitoring dealings by mining barons since 2009. The police were learnt to have found out that Rs 500 crore were parked in 100 unnamed bank accounts in Katni.
 
 In 2015, the agencies stumbled upon huge transactions by some mining barons who had political connections. Under the hawala racket, fake accounts were allegedly opened in a private bank branch under which scrapped old notes were deposited in Katni. The case had assumed political overtones after Katni SP Gaurav Tiwari, considered to be instrumental in taking probe forward, was transferred on January 9 to Chhindwara.
 
 Replying to a query, home minister Bhupendra Singh said on receiving a complaint, police registered a case (number 738/16) on July 12, 2016 under sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 B, 423, 424 of the IPC for further investigation. 
 
 “Police booked two persons Sandip Barman, a resident of Katni and another Manvendra Mistry in connection with the scandal,” Singh replied.
 
 The minister clarified as the case was special, The CID had called the case diary to police headquarters for detailed study and investigation. A similar probe is being conducted by the ED as informed by the police, he said.
 
 In the House, the government stated police interrogated three officials of Axis Bank in connection with the hawala scam. However, names and details of the officials could not be disclosed.
 
 The government also refused to divulge about documents seized by the police from the bank. Police were unwilling to disclose the matter as the case was being further investigated by state and central agencies, said the minister.
 
