PUNE: The growing vulnerability of citizens to the rage of traffic violators came to the fore again on Saturday night when a software engineer was stabbed twice by a motorcyclist for objecting to riding on the wrong side of the busy Fergusson College (FC) road. 

 The 27-year-old engineer, who sustained stab injuries in the lower portion of his left lung, was taken by his three friends to a private hospital in Hadapsar where he is undergoing treatment. His condition is reported to be stable. The   said it was a close call as an attack in the chest region could have proved fatal. 
 
 The police have launched a suo motu probe as the engineer has so far shown reluctance to lodge an FIR. The motorcyclist fled the spot soon after the incident. The police have made a station diary entry of the attack. 
 
 Police said the techie was part of a group of software engineers who had come to a restaurant on FC road for dinner. Around 11.30pm, the group came out of the restaurant and were talking on the road outside. Around this time, the motorcyclist, who was going in the wrong direction from the FC main gate to Goodluck Chowk, brushed against the techie. 
 
 "As an instant reaction, the techie shouted at the motorcyclist, asking him to follow traffic rules," sub-inspector Rahul Kolambikar of the Deccan Gymkhana police told TOI. "The biker stopped a little distance ahead and looked back. When the techie walked up to him and questioned him for driving on the wrong side of the road, the latter pulled out a sharp weapon and assaulted him." 
 
 The techie's friends rushed to his help, thinking that the motorcyclist had punched him and fled. The techie had pressed his hands on the injuries and walked with them to the premises of a nearby bank before sitting there. "Here, under the streetlights, his friends realized that he was bleeding profusely. 
 
 They immediately took him to a hospital in Hadapsar," Kolambikar said. The hospital authorities alerted the police about the incident. A police team visited the hospital to take the engineer's statement but he was reluctant to lodge a complaint. 
 
 He, however, narrated the incident to the police. The police said he has two deep gashes on the lower portion of his left lung. Senior inspector Ajay Kadam and Kolambikar are investigating the case. 
 
 The police have also acquired   from a couple of establishments adjoining the restaurant to ascertain the registration number of the motorcycle.
 
 
