CHANDIGARH: The chill in the air sweeping down from the mountains has ensured that   is hosting a sizable population of migratory waterfowl, including the iconic wetland species, the Greylag geese, despite the fact that it is virtually the middle of March.The geese are being observed at the lake in irregular numbers and very brief sojourns before they take off in vivid V-shaped and trailing wavy ribbons of flights for breeding grounds in the northern latitudes.

 On Tuesday, five geese were seen near the observatory tower of the lake in the company of mixed flocks of Eurasian coots, Northern pintail ducks, Common pochards, Eurasian wigeons, Tufted ducks etc. However, unlike in the years before the lake was de-silted, geese do not any longer come to the Sukhna in very large numbers or stay too long. 
 
 The Greylag goose is viewed by ornithologists of such repute as former   director and globally-renowned conservationist, Dr  , as a bird whose presence in good numbers and lengthy duration of stay indicates the quality of a wetland. “The Greylag is the indicator species for the health of a wetland. 
 
 This species likes to roost, forage and generally just loaf around a wetland where it is not disturbed. The presence of   tells us something positive about the wetland. You will never find Greylags in a village pond. This species is not found deep south in India. It is a species characterised by constant honking and its powerful call resonates far across a wetland and sets aflutter the hearts of birdwatchers,'' Dr Rahmani told this writer.
 
 Skeins of geese taking off from the Sukhna in spring for the return migration also stop at   dam in Punjab's Shiwalik hills (around 25 km from Chandigarh) before they fly deeper north. The dam, which was taken over by commercial fishermen for the last three years, hosted lesser numbers of migratory birds due to the disturbance. However, this winter the fishermen are gone and birds have arrived in good numbers and species diversity.
 
 The Greylag goose is very often the victim of misconceived reportage. The largest of the grey geese, it is misspelt as 'Greyleg goose'. However, its bill, legs and feet are actually pink in colour and not grey. The “lag“ in its name takes from the fact that it is one of the last of the migratory geese to move down to southern latitudes in autumnearly winter and is hence observed as “lagging in migration“. This goose is a grazier, feeds at night and day, and is known to be a very wary customer in the open wilderness as it is a favoured gamebird for hunters and poachers across the globe. The Greylag goose is one of the 254 bird species covered under the Agreement on the Conservation of AfricanEurasian Migratory Waterbirds.
 
