Visakhapatnam: In a representation submitted to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley in New Delhi on Wednesday, the AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation ( ) has sought the establishment of a special task force exclusively for ease of doing business and reducing litigation between business and government. 

 Submitting a 17-point charter suggesting ways to improve India’s ranking in the ease of doing business, APCCIF said the proposed special task force should meet every 15 days and receive complaints through a dedicated help line and have a joint resolution from industry (reports from trade bodies) and bureaucracy. This highest dispute resolution mechanism can both formally and informally help in EODB by resolving issues quickly and also giving advance tax rulings when approached, APCCIF said.
 
 Also, urging that high court verdicts should be followed, APCCIF suggested that law judgments in favour of business on similar disputes should be honoured by the departments. This will reduce litigation and increase ease of doing business, the industry body said, adding that any court order in favour of business house should override a similar order in some other court on the same issue. This way, money of the businessman will not get stuck up with the department, APCCIF opined.
 
 Among other demands, APCCIF said there should be some mechanism to punish blackmailers who continuously make false complaints against entrepreneurs and create nuisance and spoil the industrial atmosphere.
 
 In addition to this, APCCIF said reopening of books should be limited to a maximum of 3 years for income tax, customs and central excise department, ESI and PF department. Frequent re-opening of cases up to 7 years is causing tax terror and harassment. Income tax returns have to be assessed within 12 months from the date of filing of returns. Focus should be on widening tax base and concentrating on bringing new people into the tax net, but not on terrorising existing business man.
 
 APCCIF also sought lower income tax rates and faster refunds on tax deducted at source. 
 
 
