CHANDIGARH: Delhi deputy chief minister and AAP senior leader Manish Sisodia, who has been extensively touring Punjab, is of the view that his party has proven its rivals wrong every time they have written it off. In an interview with TOI, he claimed that the way Congress and Shiromani Akali dal (SAD) had been training their guns on his party, it was a sign of their desperation over AAP’s rise as a political entity.

 
 It is party to a political conspiracy to vitiate peace in the state. I have demanded that there should be action against SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, as there could be more trouble. Political rallies are usually safe. The reports we are getting about sophisticated explosives being used points to a conspiracy.
 
 
 It has to be understood what is happening. Chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and Punjab Congress president Captain   have become desperate due to AAP’s popularity. Captain has declared that the 35,000 NRIs coming down to Punjab for campaigning are terrorists. They (NRIs) are sons of the soil. When we bump into a Punjabi boy or girl at a showroom in Canada or Amsterdam, we feel proud of them. Have they become terrorists for supporting AAP? At the same time, Badal’s business interests and the conflict of interest with governance is at the root of most problems in the state.
 
 
 That’s rubbish. In Delhi, we had said that we will take action against any state leader or minister if found guilty of financial misappropriation. In case of Chhotepur, we adopted the same policy of zero tolerance. He was our own-state level leader and we ourselves took action on realizing that he accepted money. The party leadership cannot ignore such things.
 
 
 Badal’s own people are going to constituencies and saying if you don’t want to vote for SAD, vote for Congress and not AAP. They don’t want to let people think independently. It is a clear sign of their being hand in glove. Captain has foreign bank accounts and everyone knows Badal cannot take action against him.
 
 
 In my opinion, it will be a repeat of Delhi. AAP will win with an overwhelming majority. I can feel a positive energy when I meet people in markets and suburbs. I was in Jagraon today as the local candidate revived her campaigning. Before that in Ludhiana, I went for a morning walk and a person rushed home to gift me a “Gita” and said we need to get rid of evil forces in the state.
 
 
 We have changed the course of political discussion. The industry in the state has been deliberately killed so that Badal family’s own businesses prosper. The policies for the common traders are such that they can never comply and no one can dare to question those in power. AAP will bring in industry-friendly policies for Punjab. Badals should have focused on running the government, not their businesses. It can be done when out of government. The family that decides transport policy also has its own fleet of private buses. Meeting traders from the state has been a very overwhelming experience for me. They told me: “Bahar taale, andar jaale (locks on the outside, cobwebs inside).” That sums up the state of industry here. Rice millers from Abohar were equally disillusioned.
 
 
 My statement was misinterpreted. The party works on an agenda and feels that the reforms in education and healthcare that have been implemented in Delhi will be replicated in Punjab if AAP forms the government.
 
