MADURAI: Looks like the failed monsoons have done irreparable damage to the biodiversity of the region, if latest data from a bird count exercise is any indication. There has been a drastic drop in the number of ducks and egrets visiting the  , reveals the 7th edition of the Tamirabharani Waterbird Count (TWC).

 Altogether, 47 wetlands in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts were covered in the census, says M  , co-ordinator of the Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC).
 
 “This year, the census was conducted in collaboration with   and   from February 3 to 7. Around 55 volunteers were divided into five teams for the survey. We found most of the wetlands dry due to the failure of the northeast monsoon. As a result, there were fewer birds compared to the last year. While the last year’s survey found around 23,000 birds of 62 species, this year we could find only 8,256 birds of 57 species,” he told TOI.
 
 The volunteers also counted birds at large reservoirs such as Manimutharu dam and Gadna dam. “Interestingly, we found many migratory and resident ducks in   tank near Kadayam in Tirunelveli district, which had water released from Gadana dam in order to carry out repairing works of shutter. This shows that the small tanks with enough water can also host a good number of birds,” he says. 
 
 Invasive weeds and indiscriminate dumping of garbage in water bodies also deter the winged visitors. “Invasive plants like seemai karuvelam (Prosopis juliflora) and kattamanakku (Ipomoea carnea) are thriving in many wetlands. Many tanks have not been de-silted for many years and are filled with garbage,” Mathivanan says.
 
  in Tirunelveli town had massive quantities of plastic debris. “We also found empty liquor bottles and plastic tumblers. They pose a threat to birds, fish, turtles and other aquatic animals as they ingest glass and plastic particles. We urge the government to take necessary action to conserve the water bodies,” he says.
 
 Moreover, it is the duty of each of us to treat the wetlands as sacred places, which can ensure availability of water for future generations, adds Mathivanan.
 
 NO PLACE TO LAND
 
 The large wetlands in Srivaikundam region, that used to harbour thousands of migratory ducks such as the European wigeon and pintails, had only 571 birds in 12 tanks this year
 
 A total of 8,256 birds of 57 species were recorded in 47 wetlands
 
 Last year, the survey had found 23,000 birds of 62 species
 
 As many as 2,863 birds of 21 species were recorded in Manimutharu dam
 
 14,60 birds of 30 species were found in Alwarkurichi pond
 
 703 birds of 30 species were found in Puthantharuvai pond
 
 Around 3,911 ducks, 1,341 egrets and 1,247 plovers were recorded
 
 
