NAGPUR: While advising senior police officials to shun practice of demanding privileges from private organizations, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, on Thursday, dispose of the PIL filed by social worker   through Harnish Gadhia seeking directives to the association to pay security dues.

 With this, the court put down curtains on one of the bitterly fought battles in its history where serious allegations, including those of extortion and threats, were labelled by VCA against the senior police officials for the cricket association’s failure to provide 500 complimentary passes to the police department for T20 international match played between India and England on January 29. On the other hand, the police slapped cheating and forgery charges against VCA officials and lodge an FIR against 14 of them.
 
 “The state has already entered new era where red beacon were taken off from the VIPs’ vehicles. We find that through such messages, good counsel would prevail over senior officials not to demand privileges. With this hope, we give an end to this petition,” a division bench comprising justice comprising justice   and justice Atul Chandurkar said.
 
 The judges refused VCA’s request to frame directives for issuing free passes during cricket matches to be held at its stadiums in Jamtha. “We find that issuing any directives would amount to interference in the administration of VCA. The body of association is not a state under Article 12 of the Constitution of India. Though VCA’s counsel   requested us to issue directions, we can’t exceed our jurisdiction,” they said, adding that any statutory authorities are mature enough not to trouble the association for issuance of free passes.
 
 VCA made a slew of shocking allegations against the senior cops for watching the match without tickets with their guests and also enjoying its hospitality. The officers watched match from corporate box and also from the CCTV room, which was a sensitive place. It named DCP Zone-I   and additional CP (Crime) Ranjan Sharma for allegedly pressuring them for passes and also threatening them. 
 
 Surprisingly, even CP K Venkatesh had endorsed their demand stating that DCPs were dissatisfied with low number of passes. VCA further charged the police machinery of deliberately harassing them to ensure that their illegal and arbitrary demands are met in future.
 
 The court then passes several strictures on the police for their alleged “extortionist” attitude in demanding passes, while terming their behaviour as “obnoxious”. The judges had advised VCA to stop granting free passes to anyone. However, Manohar dropped a bombshell by stating that no match would take place if free passes were not provided. 
 
 
