BENGALURU: Government-run veterinary hospitals and mobile treating units in the state have not been functional since May 16. Reason: Karnataka Veterinary Doctors Association (KVDA) members have been abstaining from work, alleging pay disparity between doctors of the health and family welfare department and animal husbandry department.

 The situation is likely to continue as the protesting doctors refuse to get back to work unless their pleas are heard by the government.
 
 Veterinary hospitals in the state largely deal with cattle diseases such as going off feed, complications during delivery, lameness among bulls due to heavy weightlifting and mastitis among dairy cattle where mammary glands get infected.
 
 The doctors allege they have not been promoted in five years. “While health department doctors get handsome increments and special allowance of Rs 21,000, we get a paltry Rs 1,000. Our service is equally essential but we are not treated on a par with them. The government has not issued a notification on cadre and recruitment rules for the animal husbandry department since 2012,” said  , president, KVDA.
 
 More than 300 doctors are off work. “We are attending to emergency cases though,” said a doctor. However, the Gopala helpline of the department received complaints from farmers, especially from Dharwad, about the Kundugol hospital being closed.
 
 Bengaluru unaffected
 
 Services in BBMP limits have not been hit. Though doctors with the animal husbandry wing support the protest, they are reporting to work. “We are in solidarity with the protesting veterinary doctors. We also have not got increments, promotions and special allowance in the past five years,” said  , deputy director, animal husbandry, BBMP.
 
 Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) is also backing the protest. “They (vets) are the ones who take of our livestock. We will shortly submit a memorandum to the chief minister to look into the matter,” said  , president, KRRS. 
 
 “The government had refused to promote three officers in our department saying they can’t be promoted on the basis of reservation. Along with them, there were 167 other officers in the general merit category whose promotion was also stayed. The three officers working in Kolar, Tumakuru and Hubballi have appealed before the  ,” said Dr Yalagoda.
 
 Animal husbandry minister Manju A said he was aware of the issue. “Efforts are being made to resolve the issue before May 27,” he said. When asked about the hardships being faced by farmers, he kept mum.
 
