CHENNAI: Rolling down Kamarajar Salai, one of the 16 floats showcased at the   had a model of a jallikattu bull, bringing back three-day-old memories of black flags and blood on the streets. 

 But on Thursday, under clear skies and by the blue bay, chief minister O Panneerselvam unfurled the National Flag and smiled.
 
 What if it was only a few days ago that multitudes on this road were clamouring for constitutional protection for Tamil culture; now it was time to celebrate the 68th birthday of the Constitution. There were fewer people than usual for a   parade, and it appeared abysmal as onlookers contrasted it with last week’s tsunami of jallikattu campaigners lashing across the Marina sands to the road.
 
 But the enclosures meant for ministers, bureaucrats, police officers and defence personnel remained packed. All roads leading to Kamarajar Salai were heavily guarded and closed to traffic. "I set out early, but couldn’t reach the place because of traffic restrictions," said N Gopalasamy, a resident of Mylapore who hasn’t missed many R-Day parades here.
 
 "There was no public this Republic Day," said activist Nithyanand Jayaraman. Police said they didn’t stop anyone, but ran checks on people who were wearing black. Police had deployed extra troops near Vivekanandar House, the epicentre of the Occupy Marina movement.
 
 The Army, the Navy and the Air Force showcased models of tanks, submarines and fighter planes, while Southern Railway displayed a tableau of its mountain trains. Ahead of the procession, the chief minister took the salute of the ceremonial march-past with contingents of defence forces and the state police. Folk artists from Manipur and Maharashtra, besides student folk dancers from TN colleges added colour to the morning.
 
 The state government rolled out 16 floats of different departments, most of them prominently featuring late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The information and public relations department tableau had a plaster of paris statue of Jayalalithaa adorning a model façade of Fort St George. Others showcased popular schemes launched by the former chief minister, including closure of 500 liquor outlets, free power to handloom weavers, gold for brides and waiver of crop loans.
 
 The floats began coming after OPS unfurled the tricolour near Gandhi statue. His portrait shared space with that of Jayalalithaa in
 
 TN Cable TV Corporation’s display, which depicted the former CM giving away a free laptop to a student. OPS could not be missed on the I&PR tableau either; seen giving free cycle to students, free Pongal hampers and saris/dhotis to family card holders. The cooperation, food and consumer protection department presented a model of Amma pharmacies, the rural development department highlighted Amma park, Amma gym and THAI (TN village habitation and improvement) scheme.
 
 The school education department’s display was decorated with Jayalalithaa’s quote to "make Tamil Nadu illiterate-free."
 
 Social welfare and nutritious meal programme minister V Saroja made heads turn with her giant portraits sharing space with Jayalalithaa’s on her department’s display.
 
