AHMEDABAD: Extortion and threat calls, allegedly made by gangster  , to more than 50 professionals, builders, jewellers, politicians and writers have become a headache for  . The matter has now turned political. Three   have alleged that they have been getting threat calls from Pujari.

  The city crime branch, entrusted by DGP P P Pandey to crack the extortion racket of Pujari in Gujarat, expresses its helplessness to crack voice over internet protocol proxy servers used by Pujari. However, Navsari police claim to have detained a man from Ahmedabad who is suspected to be Pujari’s informer.
 
 However, senior crime branch officials said that the youth detained by Navsari police has no relation with the extortion cases probed by them. Joint commissioner of police, crime branch, J K Bhatt said, “We have no clue to suggest that the detained youth has any connection with Pujari network probed by us.”
 
 Meanwhile, the city crime branch officials said they have managed to avail information about Pujari’s present association with D gang. “He separated from Chhota Rajan. It was suspected that Pujari had tipped off Sharad Shetty of D gang about Rajan’s whereabouts in Bangkok resulting in a shoot-out” said a crime branch official.
 
 “Extortion money paid by a Surat doctor through a Hawala operator in Mumbai landed in Dubai,” said the official.
 
 The officials said till 2003 Pujari was based in Australia, but he later fled to south East Asia. “Pujari has new recruits in his network. The cell number which he used to give to his targets for contact is also untraceable and seems to be a disguised one” the official said.
 
 The officials said they are working closely with officers of Thane anti-extortion cell and Mumbai police to track Pujari’s men. “The audio clips of threat calls match with those of Pujari’s voice samples with Mumbai police,” added the official.
 
 The crime branch is also helpless owing to staff crunch. “We can’t do much to bust Pujari’s extortion racket. We have only five police inspectors, two of whom are awaiting their transfers. We have to think twice before dispatching a team outside Gujarat because of the inadequate staff,” explained the official. A Rajasthan-based businessman Mukesh Modi has lodged a complaint with Vadaj police that he has received an extortion call. The caller identified himself as a D gang member. Modi received the call while he was in the city. The complaint has been transferred to the city crime branch. 
 
 Last Pujari man from Gujarat nabbed in 2011
 
 Michulal alias Banta was the last man arrested by Mumbai police in an extortion case in 2011. Banta had his roots in Bhavnagar. 
 
