CHENNAI: As the   ( ) has failed to periodically update minutes of  , a resident welfare association has raised the flag over denying public to access the decisions taken by the High Court appointed panel. The monitoring committee, constituted in 2006, was tasked with examining applications seeking regularisation of buildings under the first regularisation scheme of 1999 in the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA).

 The CMDA had made the minutes of the monitoring committee meetings, that took place till February this year, available for public in its official portal. But sources said at least two meetings were convened in the last five months, and the minutes of those meetings have not been uploaded. 
 
 According to secretary of  , B Kannan, the planning authority’s website is the only window for getting details of buildings with violations seeking regularisation. Noting that the business nerve centre of T Nagar is dotted with several structures constructed by throwing the building rules to the wind, he said, one such multi-storied building on  , which had filed an application for regularisation, has subsequently obtained reclassification of land use zone.
 
 “A close reading of the minutes of the monitoring committee in the past, has revealed that it (monitoring committee) was not inclined to regularising this particular structure (due to gross violations). Against this backdrop, how will we know the status of the violated building in the absence of the minutes of the latest meetings,” he said.
 
 The minutes of 60 monitoring meetings have been uploaded in the portal since the constitution of the high court appointed the committee about 11 years ago. In its order, the high court had said that monitoring committee would oversee the demolition of unauthorised constructions built in violation of planning permit, coastal regulation zone (CRZ) and other stipulated laws. As part of it, a survey was conducted in 2007, which revealed that 64 multi-storied buildings were operating on Ranganathan Street and Usman Road in T Nagar. A large chunk of them had not even applied for planning permission.
 
 Kannan wondered why the CMDA was not updating minutes of the monitoring committee meetings that are supposed to be thrown open for public. “The RTI that I have filed with the public information officer of CMDA on the number of buildings regularised by the monitoring committee is yet to elicit any response. With the only platform for accessing the minutes of meeting virtually shut, people are clueless on the decisions and suggestions of the monitoring committee,” he added.
 
 When contacted, CMDA sources said action would be taken for updating minutes of the meetings of the monitoring committee.
 
 
