HYDERABAD: A controversial proposal to double the width of a road cutting through two crucial tiger habitats in Andhra Pradesh,   and Gundlabrahmeswaram Wildlife Sanctuary, is expected to get a fillip.The issue, according to sources, is likely to come up for discussion at a meeting of Andhra Pradesh State Board for Wildlife scheduled on Monday.

 Sources said the   has been asked to prepare a report on widening the stretch between Dornala and Atmakur from two-lane to four.NHAI appointed a consultant to prepare a report. With the road passing through a tiger reserve and a wildlife sanctuary, any survey will hit a hurdle.Monday's meeting of   is expected to discuss the issue to hammer out a solu tion.   is packed with government officials with no outside representation as mandated by Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. This, wildlife activists said, was a deliberate move by AP government to push through projects that might otherwise be questioned by those involved in nature and wildlife protection.
 
 The 1972 Act mandates that any state wildlife board must have “three people to represent non-governmental organisations dealing with wildlife to be nominated by state government.“ Also, the law states that 10 people be nominated to the board from among eminent conservationists, ecologists and environmentalists, including at least two ST representatives.
 
 The board set up by the AP government comprises state's CM as its chairperson, state fo rests minister as the vice-chairperson and the other members, totalling 11, drawn from various state and central government departments.
 
 Sources said, while the board is expected to discuss several issues, any discussion on widening the road would be aimed at taking the plan forward. “It is a well-laid road that is more than adequate for traffic, except on major festivals, particularly Sivaratri on February 24 when pilgrims make a beeline to the Sri Mallikarjunaswamy temple at Srisailam,“ a wildlife activist said. “If it is widened, it would become a huge barrier for wild animals,“ the activist said, adding “this will only mean more wildlife will get killed by speeding vehicles.“ It may be recalled that a speeding vehicle ran over a leopard cub on the stretch on January 24.
 
