AGRA: Two UP cops of Dial 100, who were accused of raping a minor girl in Mathura district, were booked for rape and sexual harassment by the police on Thursday. 

 The duo, head constable, Rama Kant Pandey and constable, Praveen Upadhyaya were suspended and a FIR was registered against them, after an internal inquiry found the charges levelled against them by the girl’s family “prima facie” true. A medical examination will now be conducted in the girl.
 
 Talking to TOI, SSP, Swapnil Mangain, said, “cases under sections 376 (rape), 354 A (Sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and 3,4 of the Protection of Children from sexual offences (POCSO) Act have been registered against the two”.
 
 He told TOI that 3 police officials including CO (city), Rakesh Vashishtha, Inspector Govind Nagar, RP Singh and Inspector Dial 100, PK Singh, have also been issued a “warning” for not handling the case appropriately. He said, “If they would have taken the matter seriously then such a situation would not occur. Lapses against them were found during the inquiry too”. 
 
 The girl’s father had filed a police complaint on Friday in which he alleged that Constable, Praveen had raped his daughter with the help of head constable, Pandey. He also alleged that Pandey was stalking his daughter when he was staying in his house. 
 
 Incidentally, the girl’s father had lodged an complaint against Praveen, accusing him of speaking to his daughter on phone sometime ago. Inspector of   had then issued a warning to constable Praveen and transferred head constable, Rama Kant Pandey to rural area to distance them. Later, Pandey vacated the house. 
 
 Talking to media, the girl had admitted that Praveen had given her a mobile phone and used to talk to him. She said, a few days back, he had asked her to meet her at Masani chowk when she was going to attend coaching classes with her younger sister. “We went to a hotel where he gave me a juice, which was apparently laced with some sedative”, she had alleged. 
 
 She alleged that Praveen had then asked her sister to go to another room on the pretext of talking to “me” alone. She claimed that she then fell unconscious.
 
 A girl said, “My sister later told me that they had done wrong things with me,” said the class Xth student. She claimed that accused threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. 
 
 When the girl narrated the ordeal to her parents, they rushed her to the Govind Nagar Police Station to register the report. The parents also alleged that the authorities were not ready to register their complaint. However, when the matter got highlighted in the media, they filed a complaint.
 
