GURUGRAM:   says he has always been a good man. He is emphatic his entire village in Sonepat will vouch for his honesty and strength of character, and so will his supervisors at  . He recalls joining the company as an apprentice February 2011, and getting promoted twice within 18 months for good performance. Life was sailing smoothly at work and at home, where he has two little daughters and a loving wife, until July 18, 2012.

 Singh is one of the 148 accused in the  . On Friday, he was acquitted along with 116 others, on account of insufficient evidence, with witnesses failing to identify them. 
 
 As Singh walks out of courtroom number 5, brushing past cops and media, his face is stern. But his eyes betray the tremor in his heart. With a heavy voice, he says the legal system is blind and skewed towards the powerful. “Of course I’m happy to be free, but who will give us back these years. My career came to a halt and my family suffered. I could seldom gather courage to see my daughters in the eye without crying,” says Singh. He adds the government must compensate them for their emotional and financial loss.
 
 Like Singh, many others celebrated their victories. But even as they clicked selfies with the V sign, their smiles gave way to frowns. A short conversation with most of them brought out the pain of the past five years and apprehensions about the future. 
 
 On the job front, many shared similar concerns. “Cops arrested me, saying I’ll be released after the initial probe. In the end, I spent over three years in jail. Even if I put that behind me, the future doesn’t look promising as no firm will hire a jailbird,” says Pradeep Kumar of Ambala.
 
 Most   say they are having trouble finding a job. Everywhere they go, they are looked upon as possible troublemakers. Their personal lives are no better. “I’m glad to be free, but there’s so much that I’ve experienced in these past five years which I can’t account for, including my wife, who left me because of my situation,” said Pramod Yadav, another acquitted worker.
 
 Many of the accused come from far off places in Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. As they counted their days in prison, their families juggled between their villages and Gurgaon, spending a small fortune on travel and lodging. For now, they are just glad the trauma is over. 
 
 Friday’s verdict also comes lined with bitterness, due to the conviction of 31 colleagues. “We’re satisfied with our acquittal, but the court also convicted our colleagues. We want timely justice for them, so that we can celebrate our victory fully,” said Subhash Kumar.
 
 
