BENGALURU: A day after chief minister   had to cut short his inspection of rain-affected areas following a breakdown of the   Volvo bus he was travelling in, transport minister   has sought a report from BMTC. Revanna said that based on the report, action would be taken against the errant staffers.

 Asked about frequent bus breakdowns, Revanna said he had held meetings with BMTC officials and evaluated the performance of buses.The minister said they have started inducting nearly 3,000 new buses for BMTC and old buses will be scrapped in a phased manner.
 
 On Wednesday, Siddaramaiah along with his cabinet members were travelling in BMTC's `Bangaluru Darshini' bus. However, the AC in the bus was dysfunctional, forcing the chief minister to take another bus from Shantinagar. But the second bus too developed a technical snag when it reached Ramamurthynagar, forcing the chief minister to travel in his car.
 
 Asked about the incident, a senior BMTC official said: “The first bus was overcrowded and one AC blower wasn't functioning properly .The second bus had met with a minor accident a few days ago, but the technical snag was unexpected. We had not expected such a situation so there was no standby.“
 
 The incident once again brought to fore the repeated complaints from commuters about dysfunctional ACs in Volvo buses and increasing breakdowns of BMTC buses.Several commuters complained to BMTC on various social networking sites about the poor condition fo ACs in Volvo buses despite high fare.Rahul K (@rahulk2971), a netizen, tweeted :“KA01FA2018 AC is completely dead and it's extremely hot inside bus. Pls repair such buses or collect ordinary fare (sic)“.
 
 BMTC officials say they maintain a temperature of 22-24 degrees Celsius in all AC buses, but temperature tends to fluctuate due to frequent opening of doors.
 
 “ACs in nearly 550 Volvo buses, which are almost a decade old, aren't functioning properly due to technical issues. Poor servicing by Volvo and shortage of spare parts add to the problem,“ said a BMTC official.
 
