Nagpur: Though Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) vice-chancellor Ravi Prakash Dani was officially removed over his US citizenship there were other issues dogging his tenure. PDKV sources said chancellor C Vidayasagar Rao had asked Dani to quit in May but the VC requested time citing wedding of his child. He assured the chancellor he would resign after that but failed to do it, forcing his removal on Saturday evening. The PDKV audit report of 2014-15 had redflagged misuse of official position and also called for a recovery of about Rs38 lakh from him. There was talk of him moving the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against his removal but Dani didn’t respond to calls and text messages sent to him for confirmation from TOI. He is also believed to have travelled to Nagpur in his official vehicle with driver on Sunday despite not being in office. PDKV officials informed audit reports had noted that VC had put two official vehicles to personal use despite already having one official car. The third vehicle — Innova — was purchased for PDKV’s mobile laboratory project which never took off. Instead of surrendering it, VC allegedly used it for personal trips. Objections were raised on flight tickets as he used to frequently visit United States. He had gained notoriety for being a “visiting VC” in the campus, sources said. Even assistant divisional commissioner, Amravati, who was holding additional charge of PDKV registrar, had sent a report to the secretary of state agriculture department and governor for recovery of Rs38 lakh from Dani. PDKV employees had charged Dani, a PDKV alumnus himself, with favouring foreign experts over local ones. MLA Randhir Sawarkar had raised a query in the assembly through a starred question on charges against Dani. Questions were raised on Dani’s eligibility for the job. As per rules, a VC should have eight years of experience as head of department (HOD) of which five should be at director’s or dean’s level. Dani, who was working on contractual basis for about 10 years as research fellow in the US, had shown this experience as equivalent to that of HOD, sources said. According to them, Dani’s close relatives working at higher positions in Union government had helped him get selected. He had also refused to give PDKV’s bungalow in city for government use during winter session on one pretext or another for last three or four years angering the district administration. He had also opposed government plans to acquire PDKV land for expansion of Akola airport. However, he readily agreed to part with university’s land in Nagpur at many places. It includes land for a new road from Mor Bhavan to Eternity Mall, proposed road from Tuli Imperial Hotel to Rahate Colony square and for widening of road from Maharajbagh to University Library Square, just to regularize the illegal Shetkari Sankul that PDKV had built. Speaking to TOI on Saturday, Dani had blamed some ministers for his removal stating he didn’t pay heed to their orders, which cost him dearly. MAU VC gets additional charge The chancellor has handed PDKV’s charge to Parbhani-based Marathwada Agricultural University’s (MAU) VC D Venkateshwarlu after removal of Dani. Venkateshwarlu took over additional charge on Monday evening, officials said. He would until a new VC is appointed for PDKV.