Trichy: An ‘ambiguity’ over the ban on chewable tobacco kept the police in a state of confusion and inaction despite seizing a vehicle with a consignment of the stuff on Wednesday afternoon. The question which baffled them was: Was   and chewable tobacco banned across the state or merely within 100 metres of educational institutions and hospitals ?

 It was a usual vehicle check by the cops near Uyyakondan Thirumalai on Vayaloor road which led to the seizure of 1.2 tonnes of banned chewable tobacco from a minivan around noon. The vehicle was intercepted by the police as it was found carrying the chewable tobacco product in 30 bags, each weighing 40 kgs, from a godown in Kavalkaranpatti on the outskirts of Trichy to the city. 
 
 The vehicle and its driver were brought to the government hospital police station. Enquiries with the driver revealed that it was being brought for supply to shops in the city. It may be pointed out that the state government had passed a GO on May 23 including chewable tobacco in the list of banned  . Unfortunately, the police were unaware of this government order that banned the sale of the stuff that they seized. There was confusion as to whether it was banned across the state or merely within 100 metres of educational institutions and hospitals. As a consequence, the police were even reluctant to show the tobacco to the mediapersons citing possible legal consequences. They summoned the owner of the godown and the vehicle. 
 
 “We are seeking legal opinion to further proceed in the case because we need to make it clear that we have the authority to take action in the case,” said sub-inspector of police, S Gopal. However, food safety and drug administration department which has been entrusted with powers to seize such products and prosecute the carriers was clear that all chewable tobacco products are in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 “There is no doubt that chewable tobacco is banned in Tamil Nadu. The police can take action if they have seized them. In case of receiving information, we have the authority to destroy them and take legal action on the person who possessed them,” designated officer (DO), food safety, Trichy Dr R Senthilkumar told TOI. However, both the police officials as well as food safety officers in the food safety department expressed their inability to act on such violations due to the unclear instructions from their higher officials about the list of banned tobacco products. The police remained mute spectators on the seizure till evening.
 
 
