AMRITSAR/LUDHIANA: With barely three days left to voting day ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab, Sikhism's high priest   has issued a statement threatening that Sikhs “would themselves find a solution“ if instances of sacrilege did not stop. He also asked the Centre to nab the culprits.
There have been at least two separate instances of sacrilege in recent days, which have rattled not only political parties like the SAD, but also the police and election authorities.
 
 On Saturday, torn pages of Gutka Sahib were found in front of a shop in Kattianwali village of Lambi.
 
 The very next day some pages of the Guru Granth Sahib were spotted in a drain in a village in Jagraon, near Ludhiana. A string of instances of sacrilege of the Sikh holy scriptures were reported from across Punjab in October 2015 which had led to widespread protests and sit-ins. The anger had intensified after two Sikhs were killed in police firing in the protests.
 
 On Sunday Punjab deputy chief minister   had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order a CBI inquiry into sacrilege cases at Bahbal Kalan in Faridkot district, the ground zero of the 2015 protests. Addressing a gathering at Kotkapura, the SAD chief had alleged that such incidents started being reported in Punjab “after the AAP's entry“ in to the state.
 
 In his statement, the jathedar also objected to uploading of objectionable photographs of Sikh Gurus on social media. Stating that those involved in such shameful acts had no religion of their own, he said that the Union government should show seriousness in curbing such incidents. “It (the central government) should also take help of cyber cells or else the anger of Sikhs would be difficult for the government to control,“ he said.
 
 Police have registered a case of desecration in the Jagraon instance. Officials said that as the word of the desecration spread, angry villagers in large numbers reached the spot and started collecting pages of the holy book. Soon, cops were informed and a police team reached the spot to calm tempers.
 
 Ludhiana (rural) SSP   said that a case of deliberate and malicious acts intending to outrage religious feelings was registered at Hathur police station against unidentified persons. “Preliminary investigation suggests that the desecration was done by someone who could be a regular visitor to the village. We are scanning CCTVs installed in the local gurdwara and some houses,“ he said.
 
