NAGPUR: Expecting a government push for electric vehicles to disrupt the automobile industry in a big way,   (M&M) is planning to ramp up its capacity in a couple of years from 400 e-cars to 5,000 every month. This will make it the first automaker in the country with 10% of its output constituting battery-run cars, said M&M managing director  .

 At present, the plant at Bangalore has a capacity to make 400 vehicles in a month, with 100 being made currently. In a couple of months, there are plans to double the capacity. Eventually, it will be taken to 5,000 a month, but it all depends on the demand. Mahindra is also planning to come up with e-autos, which are larger than the e-rickshaws now running on the streets, he said.
 
 Mahindra’s electric vehicle Reva did not do well, probably because it came before people accepted such a model. Now, with tie-ups with cab aggregators like  , a market is expected to be created for a battery-run car, said Goenka.
 
 “Globally, electric cars are a more of a personal vehicle but in India it is going to be the other way round. Cab operators may create a market first. Moreover, the benefit is proportionate to the running hours. A cab can clock in more runnings hours than a personal car,” he said.
 
 With an aim to make vehicles go fully electric by 2032, there is much focus of the government on this front. The policy also entails setting up battery swapping centres. If implemented, it will give a major push to electric vehicle segment. This means, instead of charging batteries, which consumes time apart from carrying a sizeable cost, batteries can be simply changed. It would be like installing a filled fuel tank instead of a refill. The same batteries can be circulated in different vehicles after being charged. This will make running an electric car more economical, he said. The company has already invested Rs 600 crore in this segment, said Goenka.
 
 Apart from Ola, the company is also looking for tie-ups with other operators. These are both shared service provider, like Ola or Uber, as well as fleet providers which cater to a dedicated customer group. The battery run cars are expected to gain a bigger market through this mode.
 
 With Nagpur being the first city to have electric cabs, Mahindra is also planning to soon launch such a service in cities like Pune, Bengaluru and Delhi under different arrangements, said Goenka.
 
 Under the current tie-up with Ola, Mahindra will be making the cars for Ola’s stable. Unlike the fuel-run cars, which are owned by drivers, Ola will have its own fleet of battery-vehicles. “The production will go on in coordination with Ola. Being the user, Ola is expected to come up with suggestions from time to time for Mahindra to incorporate in its battery cars,” he said.
 
 
