NAGPUR: In a first, the   of   sentenced a lawyer to two months jail for contempt of court, on Tuesday. Satish Uke, was sentenced to two months of simple imprisonment (SI) and told to pay Rs2,000 fine. Incidentally, it was also first case in the Nagpur bench’s history which was video recorded.

 While observing that conduct of the “controversial” lawyer has been “atrociously audacious”, a division bench comprising justice Prasanna Varale and justice Zaka Haq, sternly directed him to surrender before Friday, else the surety amount of Rs51,000 would be recovered from Yug Rajeev Kumar, who signed it, as per HC’s July 18 order.
 
 Expressing deep anguish over Uke’s absence from the court proceedings despite issuance of NBW, the judges saddled cost of video recordings on him and directed registry to recover amount from Rs1 lakh deposited by him with it. The remaining amount would be forfeited. The court already forfeited Rs1 lakh on Monday, after Uke failed to appear during hearings. Earlier, the cost of video recording was to be borne by the government, however the respondent protracted proceedings on February 23, 27 and 28 by skipping hearings, hence, he was told to bear the cost.
 
 “Conduct of contemnor in filing frivolous applications, not filing replies, and not answering charges framed by this court, shows that statement made by him in reply on December 6 is not bona fide apology. Moreover, after proceedings for criminal contempt were initiated against him, he hasn’t tender any apology. In these circumstances, the contemnor is liable for maximum punishment as provided under Section 12 of Contempt of Court Act, 1971,” the judges tersely stated.
 
 They however observed that since it was first instance that contemnor is being punished and considering his age, he should be sentenced for two-month behind bars instead of six. In case he fails to pay Rs, 2000, he would be kept for 15 more days behind bars. 
 
 “As Uke was not present and not represented by his counsel CJ Joveson, we direct that the certified copy of the this judgement to be handed over to him by registrar (judicial), as and when he approached him. The memory chip of video recordings should be kept in a sealed cover by the registrar (administration) and it wouldn’t be opened unless permitted by the court. It’s clarified that the either the chip or its copies shall not be given to anyone without prior permission,” justices Haq noted.
 
 Citing their February 1 order, the judges continued restraint on Uke from filing any application or complaint against, any court officials/employees, lawyers, government pleader (GP), assistant and additional GPs, and sitting judges of this court, until further orders. While seeking additional government pleader Ketki Joshi’s assistance in pronouncing the verdict, they clarified that other applications filed by Uke’s lawyers weren’t considered by them and were kept pending. 
 
 “Now the charges levelled against the contemnor are proved, we feel appropriate to continue restraint orders, clarifying that if he intends to challenge it, he may file an application before register (judicial) seeking leave. If he files, it should be placed before the bench taking up criminal contempt petitions registered against him as per February 8 orders. He many pursue his request with chief justice for constitution of another bench. His right to challenge judgment or orders of this court can’t be curtailed,” the judges observed.
 
 On Monday, Uke filed several applications and attached a petition filed by him at the principal seat challenging the vires of Sections 2(c), 12, 14 and 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. “He sought declaration that the proceedings of this criminal contempt are unconstitutional and void ab initio and praying for a writ of mandamus against the Chief Justice directing her to consider his representation seeking transfer of this contempt petition, where she was impleaded as respondent. The facts on record show that only attempt of contemnor had been to protract matter and even at cost of making accusations and allegations against the judges,” the court noted.
 
 The case generated much anxiety among the court staff, lawyers and litigants who crowded the courtroom during all four hearings. The lawyers stated that   had convicted some from their fraternity for contempt, but never heard of any such in the Bombay High Court’s history.
 
