Mumbai/New Delhi: In a setback to   and  , the Reserve Bank of India ( ) has opposed their $1.18-billion settlement pact, stating that their original contract entailing the ‘put’ (buyback) option was illegal.

 After fighting for three years, Tata Sons and DoCoMo had last week agreed on a settlement pact with the former supporting the enforcement of the $1.18-billion international arbitral award favouring its telecom partner, and the Japanese company agreeing to the suspension of legal proceedings against Tata Sons in the US and UK jurisdictions for the next six months. The two companies have also decided not to oppose RBI’s intervention in the matter.
 
 On Wednesday, the RBI told the Delhi high court that the settlement deed cannot be implemented as the buyback option in the original Tata Sons-DoCoMo contract contravenes Indian laws. The central bank also said that the payout from the Indian telco to the Japanese company involves transfer of shares under an illegal agreement. 
 
 After their mobile phone services venture failed, DoCoMo exercised its ‘put’ option, asking Tata Sons to buy back its 26.5% stake in Tata Teleservices according to the terms inked in the original contract. The contract states that DoCoMo would get back a minimum 50% of its $2.36-billion investment (or $1.18 billion to be exact), made in 2009 on its exit. 
 
 However, the RBI pointed out that Indian rules do not allow a guaranteed exit price to a non-resident investor. Interestingly,   chairman   is on the central bank’s board of directors.
 
 DoCoMo had taken Tata Sons to a London court and won an arbitration award. The London court directed the Indian company to abide by the contract and it subsequently deposited $1.18 billion with the Delhi high court, where the case is being heard. 
 
 Following the RBI’s objection to the settlement terms between Tata Sons and DoCoMo on Wednesday, the Delhi high court asked the apex bank whether it has the power to overrule an international arbitral award and whether its permission is even required when Tata Sons is willing to pay the money. The court asked the central bank to clarify its position on the issue by March 14. It also asked the regulator to state if its stand is based on an advice from the finance ministry. 
 
 “Is RBI’s special permission required for paying damages for failing to fulfil contractual obligations? Say yes or no. If yes, then quote the circular, regulation or rule under which permission is required. If not, then say no,” said Justice S Muralidhar. He added, “Make your stand clear.” 
 
 The RBI told the court that if DoCoMo fails to succeed in enforcement of its award in India, it cannot say it will try and enforce it in some other jurisdiction after six months. The court, however, found the argument “absurd” and pointed out if DoCoMo does not succeed, it can take the case for enforcement of the award to the US or the UK and “RBI has no jurisdiction outside India”.“How can you object to enforceability anywhere else in the world? If they (Tata Group) have assets anywhere else, DoCoMo can move a court there for the enforcement of the award. There is no law prohibiting it,” Justice Muralidhar added, saying for the purpose of the present litigation, all the court will record in its order is that “objections to enforceability of the award stand withdrawn”, for which it required the RBI to place its stand. (With agency inputs)
 
 
