JALANDHAR: In a surprising move,   co-president Aman Arora, who has been given responsibility of building the organizational structure in the state, appealed to former state convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur to return to the party fold.

 Arora, who was here to hold a meeting with local volunteers in connection with upcoming Jalandhar Municipal Corporation elections, praised Chhotepur’s tenure as the party convener and said that his removal became biggest reason for defeat of the party in Punjab assembly polls.
 
 “Chhotepur’s sacking was one of the major reasons for the defeat of the party in the Punjab assembly elections. He will be welcomed in the party and we will try to persuade all leaders, who had either quit or were expelled, to return to the party fold,” Arora said while speaking to mediapersons here on Thursday evening at the local party office. Chhotepur did well during his tenure as party convenor and his removal was avoidable, he added.
 
 Even as some other party leaders, including Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, had said Chhotepur’s sacking was unfortunate and damaged the party, it is for the first time that AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal’s direct appointee has taken a position, which is diametrically opposite to that of the central leaders of the party while sacking the veteran leader from Gurdaspur.
 
 Chhotepur was removed from the post of Punjab AAP convenor on the pretext of a “sting” in which he was allegedly caught taking Rs 2 lakh from somebody. However, the party never released the sting video and the person, who did the sting, later said Chhotepur was not accepting the money but he left it there almost forcefully for party expenses.
 
 Sunam MLA Arora’s latest position on Chhotepur is also in complete contrast to the stand of party MP and new AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, who had justified the expulsion.
 
 Meanwhile, Arora also said Punjab AAP unit would be autonomous with no interference from the central leadership. He also said all the fund details would be maintained by the state unit and made public.
 
 Altercation at the event
 
 An altercation also took place at the AAP meeting between a section of volunteers and party candidate from Adampur assembly constituency Hans Raj Rana. Abuses and threats were exchanged and party leaders Dr Sanjiv Sharma and   had to intervene to save the situation from turning worse.
 
