Chandigarh: The Punjab and   high court on Thursday asked the Haryana government to track down those involved in the breach of   and depute a senior ranking officer to look into the case.

 The division bench headed by Justice S S Saron made the observations after the court was told that police challan had been presented against only five out of 1,400 accused in the case. Additional solicitor general of India and counsel for   assured the court to seek instructions on the issue and to get the matter examined.
 
 When the matter came up for resumed hearing on Thursday, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, informed it about the number of untraced reports in the cases registered during the February 2016 Jat agitation for reservation. 
 
 “Untraced reports were filed in 29 out of 153 cases in Hisar, 27 out of 63 in Bhiwani, 42 out of 147 in Jhajjar and 118 out of 192 untraced cases in Sonipat,” Gupta told the court while presenting an analyses of the reports regarding status of investigation of the cases.
 
 The counsel for the Haryana, however, told the court that some of the cases in which the untraced reports had been filed were petty offences related to cutting of tree or blocking roads.
 
 Contesting the state’s claim, Anupam referred to Munak Canal, where protesters had tried to breach the canal to stop water supply to Delhi and police had to resort to firing in which two persons had died. The incident had disrupted the the water supply to Delhi, he said. 
 
 Justice Saron observed that Haryana needed to make serious efforts to trace the culprits involved in the case and asked the government to depute a senior ranking officer to look into it. Observing that the state should not have sympathy for those involved in such incidents, the court asked the state authorities to provide district wise details of cases of serious nature registered during the February 2016 Jat agitation by April 6.
 
 Meanwhile, during the hearing of the case, the bench observed that it has received a letter regarding the alleged incident of rape in Murthal near Sonipat. The bench then handed over a photocopy of the letter to inspector general of police (IGP)  , head of the special investigation team (SIT) that is probing into the matter to look into the contents. On the investigation of the alleged rape incident, the state government sought some more time on the grounds that SIT was doing DNA profiling of some more suspects related to the case. The case would now come up for further hearing on April 6.
 
 
