PATNA: Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha kicked up a political storm on Monday with a series of tweets in defence of   chief Lalu Prasad and Delhi chief minister  , saying “enough of negative politics and mudslinging on them by opponents was not in a good taste”.
 
  Senior   functionary and leader of opposition in   legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi later called Sinha a ‘shatru (enemy)’ of BJP as he was defending Lalu even though Bihar CM and Lalu’s alliance partner   is silent on the issue.
  
  Shatrughan, the Patna Saheb MP, later responded strongly by tweeting, “Some people who are wholly and solely responsible for our party’s debacle in Bihar are today crying hoarse, hoping to regain their lost image”. Without naming Modi, he called him a ‘sycophant’ as well. Lalu’s younger son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Yadav was also prompt in utilising the opportunity to target Modi and the BJP.
  
  To start with, Shotgun tweeted in the morning, “Enough of negative politics and mudslinging by opponents on our political leaders, be it Kejriwal, Lalu Yadav or Sushil Kumar Modi...An allegation is only that unless proved!...Time to substantiate your claims or pack up. Can't just keep feeding media with one night stories and sensationalising....”
  
  Backing Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor and PM Narendra Modi’s bete- noire Kejriwal, Modi tweeted, “Individually I hold all political leaders, especially Kejriwal, in high esteem for their credibility, struggle and commitment towards society.”
  
  Modi was prompt in reacting to the sharp-edged tweets of Shotgun. “Gaddars (traitors) must be sent out immediately,” he tweeted.
  
  Sinha again responded to Modi’s tweet a couple of hours later by tweeting, “Sycophants criticise for the sake of criticism, get low and personal.”
  
  The Patna Saheb MP, known for making his party squirm with his comments, tried to show his loyalty for the party and praise for PM   as well. “Hope and pray that our dashing dynamic action hero Prime Minister Narendra Modi and our honourable president of BJP would take notice of such unparliamentary utterances of some of our party people - that too against a senior party colleague and a staunch party loyalist,” Sinha tweeted.
  
  The grand alliance functionaries utilised the opportunity to take potshots at Sushil Modi and the BJP. “How can someone call himself ‘sushil (gentle)’, who calls you ‘shatru (enemy)? He (Modi) is master of telling lies in all colours...He has problems with elected representatives like you (Sinha), MP Kirti Azad and many more in BJP,” tweeted Lalu’s younger son and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.
