When   came to perform at  , the annual cultural festival of   recently, the students ensured that the   fiasco (where a gas leak and stampede caused Punjabi actor-singer   to cut short his performance after just 15 minutes) wasn't repeated. Security was tightened and student volunteers were present across the venue to manage the crowd and make sure that all the arrangements were in place. When the crowd started getting unruly, announcements were made – "Agar aap log aise behave karenge toh yeh show yahin band kar diya jayega"; "Aap logon ko kya pata kitna mushkil hota hai fest organise karna." As the show progressed, many students also started forming pyramids to catch a better glimpse of the singer.

  
  Students clicking selfies and recording videos at Armaan Malik's concert at SRCC
 
 
 
  
 The cops at the main gate said that many students had been waiting for Armaan's show since 5pm. The singer belted out a number of songs during his 50-minute performance, from 'Aaja Na Ferrai Mein' and 'Wajah Tum Ho' to 'Besabriyaan'. Before singing 'Dilli Wali Girlfriend', the singer addressed the crowd and said,"Yeh gaana khaas Dilliwalon ke liye hai." After singing the last song for the evening – 'Main Kisi Se Kahunga Nahin' – Armaan said, "SRCC, I had such a great time. I made a lot of friends here."
 
  
  Students started forming pyramids to catch a better glimpse of the singer. When the crowd started getting unruly, announcements were made to calm it down 
 
 
 
  
 The students – who were disappointed with composers Sachin-Jigar cancelling their performance at KMC, and Diljit Dosanjh leaving HRC's fest midway – danced to the tunes of Armaan Malik. Prateek Gupta, a first-year student from SRCC, said, "It was a great compensation for the last two misses. All the colleges aim at making their fest the best of the lot. That includes having a peaceful star night, for which a star has to turn up for the event, of course (referring to Sachin-Jigar's show cancellation at KMC)." His friend Praveen Kumar added, "Par Diljit ka concert zyaada achha tha...", but Prateek interrupted, "Concert ki baat ho rahi hai, marne ki nahin."
 
 
  
 
 
