PUNE: The state politics is on a rollercoaster ride over the election of Mumbai’s mayor with behind the curtain parleys among the leaders of different parties.

 NCP president   and   (MPCC) chief Ashok Chavan have hinted that they would not like to see a BJP corporator as the mayor of Mumbai and would prefer a Sena man to occupy the coveted chair.
 
 “Let Sena take a call. If no-confidence motion has to be brought in the House, we shall need   on our side. It is up to the Sena to decide if it wants this government to survive,” former chief minister Narayan Rane told reporters in Pune.
 
 Earlier, Pawar had said in public Mumbai should not have a BJP mayor. Echoing his sentiments, Ashok Chavan had said if the Shiv Sena withdrew its support to the state government, the Congress would consider new political equations in Mumbai.
 
 Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told news agencies that the BJP should not preach Sena on joining hands with the Congress. Raut said the BJP had formed the government with   in Jammu and Kashmir. “They should explain the logic behind this alliance. What about Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s stand on militancy? Does the BJP agree with the PDP? First answer these questions and then point fingers at us,” said Raut.
 
 The Sena leaders are not directly saying anything on withdrawing support from the Fadnavis government or seeking the Congress’ support to win the Mumbai mayor’s post.
 
 Political pundits feel that Sena has three options. First, to mend fences with the BJP. Second, take a lead to form an anti-BJP front to topple the government and rule with the help of NCP-Congress. Third, face fresh elections.
 
 According to sources, some senior Sena ministers are trying to launch an anti-BJP front in the state. Another section of Sena leaders feels the party might split if the Sena tries to topple the government, pushing the state to mid-term polls.
 
 Senior cabinet minister and BJP veteran Chandrakant Patil recently hinted this possibility, saying that the government would be able to survive without Sena because about 20 MLAs from different parties are willing to support the government.
 
