CHANDIGARH: To cut down the time taken in approving building plans and to  , the   is considering to do away with   (PAC) that sanctions plans.

 However, this will be possible only after the launch of UT's ambitious project of starting an online service for building plan approval. A team led by UT deputy   is currently working on the project expected to be launched by September.
 
 At present, the ninemember committee takes a lot of time in scrutinising the plan, causing delays. Under the current system, SDO (building) is responsible for getting the plan scrutinised from members of the committee within a week after receiving the plan. Each member has to inspect and return the plan to the estate office with their recommendations within a period of two weeks. Despite repeated instructions from senior officials, the deadlines are not followed. The estate office has got software developed to scrutinise plans submitted for approval. Under the system, architects will submit building plans online. If the software does not detect discrepancies, the plan will be sanctioned in three days. Residents will also be issued occupation certificates through the system. According to sources, af ter launch of online system, there will be manual random checks of the online approvals till the officials are sure about the reliability of the software. Once the system starts working perfectly, even the random checks will be minimised.
 
 Giving example of Haryana, which has success fully introduced the online system of building plan approvals, city-based architect Vinod Joshi said the human interface has been reduced to minimum. “Once the online system is launched, there is no need for the PAC. If the authorities continue with the committee, even after introduction of online system, it will defeat the purpose of having an online system,“ said Joshi.
 
 
 
 At present, the building plans are approved manually and the process is marred by red tapism. As per the citizen charter of the estate office, fresh building plans are to be approved in 24 days while revised building plans in 32 days. But it takes around four to five months in getting approval.
 
