INDORE:   completed six years in international cricket earlier this month. The Mumbai batsman has played 81 ODIs in this period and would have loved to have played more. Rahane knows his role in Tests, he knows what to expect when he plays IPL but he is still looking to seal a permanent slot when it comes to shorter formats and India.

 His One-day career seems to be going the same way as Rohit Sharma’s Test career. If   comes back for the next two matches, Rahane might have to warm the bench. This situation might play on minds of most players, but Rahane doesn’t want to worry about things that are not in his control. 
 
 “I don't think much about the future. I try to do my best when I get an opportunity. I stay in the present as much as possible. We don't know what the future holds. For me, it works best if I back myself and give my best. When Shikhar comes, we don’t know what will happen. So, at the moment, it’s important for me to give my best for the team,” Rahane said on Saturday.
 
 Rahane recently had a chat with Sachin Tendulkar when he went for nets in Bandra Kurla complex in Mumbai after the Sri Lanka series. “Sachin paaji told me ‘back your game’. He said opportunities will come sometimes, they will be missing sometimes. It is not in your hand. You need to work on your mind because the better the mindset, the better you do on the field.
 
 “He did not tell me anything about the technical stuff. He mostly spoke about the mental preparations - about aggression etc. He has played so much against Australia, so he spoke to me about how to prepare mentally, and pointed out the lengths they generally bowl. It was great having the chat with him, and it gave me a lot of confidence,” he said.
 
 India is going through a phase when middle order batsmen have been asked to bat at the top of the order. In Tests, Rahane bats in middle order, while in One-dayers, he bats at the top. Rahane says it’s more of a mental thing.
 
 “Adjustment is completely mental but the best thing about this side is that the guys can bat anywhere, so that flexibility is there. I have batted at the No. 3, 4, and 5. It is important how you deal with the situation. Technically you can adapt anywhere, but it’s the mindset that matters,” he said.
 
 The Indian batting is yet to flourish in this series. Rahane said the team is looking to win in difficult situations. “You can’t expect to score 300 or 350 every time you bat. There will be times when you score 240 or 280. This team has the quality to defend any total. The bowling attack is so good that the team is confident that we can defend and win even low-scoring matches. We are confident that we can restrict any opposition. When you end up winning matches even after scoring 240-ish totals, you establish yourself as the No. 1 team,” he said.
 
