KOLKATA: Four men, all of them carrying firearms, entered the office of a   firm offering loans in lieu of gold and left after about 30 minutes with more than 10kg of yellow metal worth Rs 2.88 crore on Thursday afternoon.

 The audacity of the strike lay in the choice of the time (a busy workday afternoon) and the location -an office in an always-bustling quarter of the city -and seemed to be backed up by inside information as well as some meticulous planning; the robbers knew where exactly all the   cameras were, the exact location of the vault where the gold was kept, the phone line circuit in the office and every other detail necessary for carrying out a strike with pinpoint precision.
 
 Police said the four men held the employees and customers at gunpoint, took their mobile phones, disconnected the phone lines and CCTV connections and shoved the men inside a room of the office and locked it from outside before cleaning out the single vault in the office of  , located on the first floor of a building, between Park Circus 7-point crossing and Park Street.
 
 The modus operandi was strikingly similar to the loot at Manappuram Finance Ltd's Baranagar office on December 30 last year, when robbers decamped with nearly 30kg of gold ornaments worth more than Rs 8 crore.Eight persons were arrested in the case by CID earlier this month, though at least 13 others are on the run.
 
 “On Thursday , four men entered the office posing as customers, dressed in shirt and trousers. At the reception, they said they wanted loan against gold ornaments they were carrying in a bag.One of them waited at the reception while three were guided to the chamber of an officer and as they took their seats, the men took out firearms and held the employees at gunpoint,“ a police officer quoted a company official as saying.
 
 According to the com plaint, the robbers asked the five employees and a customer to give their cellphones to one of them and forced all to sit together at the reception. The shutter was pulled down, telephone lines were disconnected, CCTV lines cut, an alarm that sends a panic signal to the local police station was disengaged and all employees barring one were locked up.
 
 The men held one employee, Md Alam, at gunpoint and asked him to open the vault that contained the gold and cash. They then emptied the vault and took him hostage to the ground floor of the office, where they pushed him to the ground, bolted a wooden door and fled, possibly in a car.
 
 Before escaping, the robbers even took away the hard disk that captures the CCTV footage, the officials have told the police.
 
 The robbers struck around 3.30pm, a time when few customers generally visit the office.
 
 A Beniapukur cop said one of the CCTVs which the robbers had missed have captured some images and so has a camera at the bank.Cops are checking them for leads. “We are also questioning other occupants of the building,“ the officer added.
 
