THANE: An   helped the   bust a gang involved in   of commuters aboard crowded suburban trains on the Thane railway network. The man single-handedly accosted one of the accused and despite being assaulted, managed to identify the culprit and his aides who were till now operating covertly.

 Each of the five accused used to work independently for petty thefts otherwise and used to collaborate for select big assignments so it was difficult to pin them initially as there was no record against them working as a gang in the files, said assistant commisioner of railway police, Mumbai, Samadhan Pawar.
 
 Rafique Shaikh aka Chaawal and Farmaan Khan aka Lal Bachha- two from the five members of the network were arrested on Monday by the police who cracked the case after going through the CCTV footages of various days to ascertain the involvement of the five in the act.
 
 The gang was busted after the complainant, Abdul Shaikh, a rickshaw driver from Mumbra fell prey to the thieves last Thursday. The victim was on his way to see off his parents who were travelling to Karnataka and had boarded the third coach of a Up slow local for Thane from Mumbra. As trains were running late there was a crowd at the station, but somehow the Shaikh family managed to board.
 
 Just as the train was leaving, the complainant realized someone was trying to remove two phones from his trouser pocket. He immediately grabbed the hand to see one of the accused in the act. Startled, the accused jumped off the train followed by Shaikh who managed to grab him by then. Immediately, the aides of the accused surrounded the victim and pushed him away to allow the trapped accused to escape.
 
 By the time fellow passengers could react, the accused managed to give the slip and ran out of the station premises. The complainant alerted the railway police who scanned the camera footage at the station and managed to identify the accused as all of them are history sheeters. The railway police relentlessly pursued the case and managed to track down two of the accused on Monday.
 
 “We managed to trace two of the accused who are residents of Mumbra. The accused used to operate individually but we were startled to know that they had also formed a gang recently and continue with their theft activities. The hunt is on for the remaining three accused and we will trace them soon,” said senior inspector Uttam Sonawane of Thane railway police. The accused have been booked under sections 395, 402, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 
