Finding a decent PG for a   applicant isn't a cakewalk. One has to consider a host of options while looking for a place to stay. So from finding a safe place with basic amenities, to dealing with brokers who demand commission, hunting for a PG is quite a task for students and their parents coming from different cities. To eliminate the broker from the PG market and make things easy for these freshers and their parents, a group of students from Ramjas and   has started an initiative,  , for those looking for PGs in North Campus, for the upcoming academic session. "I have changed my PG twice and have already spent at least Rs50-60k on brokerage. I graduated this year, and since most of our team members had faced similar brokerage issues, we decided to help those who are looking for PGs this year," says Rohan Deswal, a recent graduate from Ramjas and a member of Need A PG.

  
  Members from Need a PG showing a PG to DU students and their parents coming from different states
 
 
  The team, which includes volunteers mostly from Ramjas and Satyawati, has its registration desks at almost all the colleges across North Campus. When students from other cities come with their parents to take admission, this team approaches them to ask if they need a PG. "We have made a catalogue of all the PGs that we have visited and reviewed so far on the basis of our and our friends' experiences. We have 45 PGs under us at the moment and we reviewed them on the basis of their consistency throughout the year. Mostly, what happens is that the PG owners provide good facilities during their initial months and then the quality degrades. We have a list now, and if a student approaches us for a PG in North Campus, we give them a list of the PGs according to their budget," says Muskan Yadav, a third-year student of Ramjas and also a member of the team.
 
 
  
  
 
  Saumya Rastogi, a member of the team who lives in a PG in North Campus, says, "We ask one of our team members to show the PGs to the students and their parents. If they find that a particular PG comes under their budget and they like it, they finalize it."
 
  And since this is a student-run initiative, the students are not charging any fees from the parents or students. "Our idea is to eliminate the broker system from the market. That is why we are doing this free of cost. The services that we are providing are similar to what a broker normally would. But the broker will charge his fees and is limited to only a particular area, whereas we have covered all the areas of the campus," says Amit Malik, a student of BA (Prog) from Satyawati College.
 
  
  
 
 
  But although these students aren't charging any amount for their services, they’ll have their own share of advantages. "The PG owners will either pay us commission per seat, or they sponsor our fests in the month of February and March," says Ruchi Nandan, a BCom (Prog) student from Ramjas. Avikal Bhoj, another team member, adds, "The PG owners might not give us the money for fests, but they can also help us in arranging food or other basic services."
  
  
 
