PUNE: On roads close to the headquarters of the municipal corporation, through most of the day motorists are seen nonchalantly violating traffic rules. Driving on the wrong side of the road and riding into designated no-entry ares, particularly when traffic police officials are away, is quite common here.

 Around PMC Bhavan, traffic is restricted on a number of roads. Narrow roads and parking bays in the area only complicate the matter further. Moreover, despite the city police claiming that it is cracking down hard against driving on the wrong side, TOI found that motorists remain brazen in their defiance of traffic restrictions in the area.
 
 For instance, vehicles descending from   are not allowed to take an immediate left turn towards the entry gates to the municipal headquarters as the left flank is cordoned off to park PMC vehicles. However, motorists on two-wheelers, auto-rickshaw drivers, even the odd car frequently use the stretch to travel towards the Jayantrao Tilak Bridge intersection. Usually, there is no policeman nearby to bring the violators to book.
 
 In their defence, all that the errant motorists had to say was that they were trying to save time. “I am on my way to meet a friend and I’m running late. So I I had to use this stretch. If I didn’t travel this way, I would have to take a U-turn and wait a long time through the traffic,” said  , who was riding by on a two-wheeler.
 
 Locals say that despite minor accidents, authorities do not seem keen on enforcing the restrictions. “On this road and on the stretch near  , where traffic is supposed to move towards the  , people casually enter from the wrong direction. Many accidents occur, especially on the stretch near Mangala Talkies, as the buses often end up hitting motorcyclists. Even so, there are hardly any police officials around to deter motorists,” said Abdul Nasir Shaikh, who works at a motor-repair shop  .
 
 The local traffic police admitted that traffic management may drop during the afternoon hours but was quick to add that errant drivers are always brought to book whenever they are seen.
 
 “The police officials’ shift changes during the afternoon and they also take a break for lunch so there are fewer policemen on the streets. However, we are stepping up action against wrong-side driving every day and we are bringing many to book,” said SR Damse, senior inspector of the Shivajinagar traffic division.
 
