CHENNAI: Buggy services will soon be available for the disabled at the state secretariat and at the office of the Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-Abled. The initiative comes from the office of the commissionerate that is tucked away inside a government hospital at KK Nagar which has ramps and wheelchairs but is at least 1km from the main road. Services will start once the chief minister approves it, said state commissioner S Murugaia.

 “There is also a proposal to introduce buggies to connect all transport systems surrounding Koyambedu and the market,” Murugaia said. “It was a request from differently-abled groups so they can access inter-modal transport facilities. The proposal has been sent to the transport secretary for consideration.”
 
 The secretariat is likely to have three buggies which will pick up people from the entrance. People with disabilities have welcomed the move. They said their personal vehicles were not allowed inside. “It is not just inconvenient for us to be stopped at the entrance, it also causes severe anxiety among motorised wheelchair users who are examined by police there,” says Smitha Sadasivan, member,  . “Officials should provide proper information about how the buggy facilities can be availed of and the buggies should be accessible for people and their wheelchairs.”
 
 People with disabilities have also urged authorities to provide buggy facilities in public spaces where vehicles are not permitted and where they have to walk long distances, as in the Madras high court. Last mile connectivity with assisted facilities between bus stands, railways stations to their homes is also an appeal.
 
 Recently Greater Chennai Corporation made Marina beach inclusive for the first time by rolling out mats from the service lane up to the water to make it temporarily accessible on December 3, world disability day. Activists wanted sand buggies as a permanent facility so that people with disabilities could go all the way on their own. The police on duty had been offering their beach patrol vehicles. “We have two beach patrol vehicles at the Marina police station and one in   and differently abled people can use them,” deputy commissioner of police, Mylapore, V Balakrishnan had said. “We can also organise more such buggies.” 
 
 Vidya Sagar, an NGO working for the rights of the disabled, will be facilitating this measure.
 
 
