NEW DELHI: BJP’s string of victories in civic elections in several states with the latest win in neighbouring   has come as a boost to the party ahead of municipal elections in Delhi, the first major test since it was steamrolled by AAP in February, 2014.

 The big win in Faridabad, where BJP won 30 of 40 seats and where its newly appointed Delhi unit chief Manoj Tiwari also campaigned, is read as another strong indication that demonetisation continues to enjoy public support.
 
 BJP sees the   as significant as it was the first poll in the   after PM Narendra Modi’s decision to rap Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes and the city’s profile has similarities to Delhi by way of middle class colonies and a mix of Gujjars, Baniyas, Jats and Punjabis.
 
 BJP chief Amit Shah was quick to call BJP’s successes in civic polls in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat a “stamp of approval” on the demonetisation decision. “It is now clear that the opposition is merely doing politics over demonetisation while people are supporting the PM,” Shah said.
 
 BJP hopes Modi’s leadership at the Centre and AAP government’s controversial tenure will help the party win a third time.
 
 “People know AAP has failed to deliver on its promises. I have been going to the slums and people don’t have access to clean toilets. There is no water in them. AAP has failed to provide basic services to people,” said Tiwari.
 
 Delhi leaders admit that the fight could be more challenging as BJP has been in office in municipalities for two terms and AAP has been a more determined opponent as compared to Congress. BJP has been under pressure after AAP assumed office and decided not to implement recommendations of the 4th finance commission on the share of funds for corporations. BJP saw AAP’s arguments that the Centre needs to release its share and corporations be more accountable as a political ploy to strangle corporations but services have been badly hit with sanitation staff striking work for the fifth time since 2015.
 
 
