There’s nothing unique about celebs getting engaged or even tying the knot on national television anymore. It’s the easiest way to grab eyeballs.   and   are the latest couple to join the bandwagon; they had an official ring ceremony on ' ' and plan to tie the knot later this year.
Shoaib says, “Dipika has always complained that I don’t express my love and I am not romantic. It suddenly struck me that I should profess my love. That’s when I decided to do the ring ceremony on national television.” What does Dipika have to say about the general perception that reality shows include such drama to boost the ratings? She replies, “I understand the general perception that when a couple proposes on reality shows every year, it’s done essentially for ratings. However, ours wasn’t a part of any strategy. It wasn’t pre-planned. In fact, I was shocked the most when Shoaib proposed to me. This wasn’t to boost the ratings, but purely to express our love.” 
 
 Here’s a look at other celeb couples who made it official on national television...
 
 
 
 The couple tied the knot in the fourth season of 'Bigg Boss' (2010), following a courtship of three years. However, they split soon after. 
 
 
 Bhojpuri actress Mona Lisa aka Antara Biswas, who participated in the 10th season of 'Bigg Boss' (2016-17), exchanged nuptial vows with beau Vikrant Singh Rajput on the show. Vikrant, who had visited Mona in the house, announced that he would like to marry Mona soon. In an attempt to cash in on his desire, the makers suggested that he marry her in the house to which he agreed. The wedding took place according to Hindu rituals with both their families in attendance.
 
 
 
 They met on 'Bigg Boss 8' and Upen was bowled over by the leggy lass. The two later participated in 'Nach Baliye 7' (2015), where they got engaged with their families witnessing the ceremony through video conferencing. However, their relationship went kaput a few months later. Neither Upen nor Karishma have divulged the reason behind their break-up. 
 Earlier, Ravi Dubey proposed to longtime girlfriend Sargun Mehta on 'Nach Baliye 5' (2013). The actor went down on his knees and proposed in typical filmi style with a solitaire ring, in the presence of both their families.
 
 
 
 Celebrities like  ,   and Ratan Rajpoot participated in the reality show, in which they had to choose a lucky suitor from among several contestants. Though 'Rakhi Ka Swayamvar' (2009) saw Rakhi get engaged to Elesh Parujanwala, an NRI from Canada, the controversial item girl called off the engagement soon after, citing compatibility issues. Rahul Mahajan tied the knot with model-actress Dimpy Ganguly on reality show 'Rahul Dulhaniya Le Jayenge' (2010). The couple called it quits in 2013. Ratan Rajpoot got engaged to Delhi-based Abhinav Sharma on the reality show, 'Ratan Ka Rishta' (2011). However, nothing progressed on their relationship front. 
 
 
 
