VISAKHAPATNAM: A   prevailed in Port City on Friday as majority of the residents left for their native places, particularly villages in order to celebrate  , the harvest festival. Incidentally, nearly 60% of the city’s population (around 22 lakh) are migrants from neighbouring Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, and East and West Godavari districts.

 Srikakulam collector P Lakshmi Narasimham said, “About four lakh people from the district migrated to other parts including Vizag for livelihood. They return to the native district during festivals like Sankranti.”
 
 The city railway station and RTC bus complex were choc-a-block with milling home-bound crowd. People were seen rushing towards trains and buses to reach their native places.
 
 In fact,   mood began with Bhogi on Friday, but the main festival will be celebrated on Saturday, which is a general holiday.
 
 M Chinna Rao, native of Palasa in Srikakulam district, said “We were given holiday on Saturday and Sunday. My wife and children had already left for the native place. I am leaving now.”
 
 Road junctions near areas like Maddilapalem, Dwarakanagar Bus Station, Visakhapatnam Railway Station, NAD Junction, Hanumanthawaka Junction and   have been packed with passengers. Transport operators including the APSRTC have jacked up fares to cash in on the festival rush.
 
 “We operate special bus services and yet many private operators too run services,” said Ch Appala Narayana, deputy chief traffic manager of APSRTC at   bus station.
 
 I Sankara Sharma, one of the priests at Sun Temple in Srikakulam, said Makara Sankranti is celebrated to mark the transition of sun into Makara Raasi (Capricorn) on the celestial path. The festivities begin with Bhogi and conclude with Mukkanuma on Monday. 
 
 M Balaram, secretary of AP Rythu Koolila Sangham, said farmers keep ready the newly harvested paddy and other crops for rituals. They also prepare dishes with the new grains.
 
 Films like Khaidi No 150 and Gautamiputra Satakarni besides traditional events like kite festival and Rangoli have added extra glitter to the festivities.
 
 Films like Khaidi No 150 and Gautamiputra Satakarni besides traditional events like kite festival and Rangoli have added extra glitter to the festivities
 
 
