Bollywood's ace choreographer   has definitely carved a niche for herself in the glam world. Be it lending her creative choreography for the 70mm screen or mentoring for the small world shows, the choreographer believes in giving her best. The choreographer will soon be seen yet again judging the second season of the hit kid's dance reality show Super Dancer 2 soon.

  Last season,   had taken to The   Show's stage to promote their show. Now that   has gone off air for a while owing to Kapil's ill health, the happening trio off SD 2, Shilpa Shetty, Geeta Kapoor and Anurag Basu missed out on TKSS this time. We caught up with the choreographer at the launch of the second season of her dance reality show SuperDancer 2. Ms. Kapoor who was seen in her usual bubbly and chirpy self, when questioned her about not being able to make it to TKSS, Geeta said, "Yes, unfortunately we could not be a part of TKSS this season since the show is not on air currently. But we did got to The Drama Company and I was super excited to meet Mithun Dada after so long. That was the best moment for me in recent times. We will go wherever the show takes us."
 
 
 
 
 
  For Kapil, Geeta had the sweetest thing to say. "I really wish Kapil recovers soon and is all fit and fine asap. Kapil has made everybody, right from the fit to the ailing laugh their heart out with his antics and jokes. I hope someone makes him laugh the similar way," said the choreographer. The fine dancer made her TV debut as a judge with Dance India Dance on a popular broadcast channel in the year 2009 and now has moved onto judging SuperDancer on a rival channel. While SuperDancer is set to begin on September 30, the promos of DID season 6, have begun to air simultaneously.
  Fans were confused as to how Geeta Ma, as she is fondly known as would strike a balance between the two shows. While talking to us, Geeta clarified, "As of now, I am a part of SuperDancer. It is unfair to be a part of two shows simultaneously, as you all know. So I am not a part of any other dance reality shows apart from SuperDancer."
 
  Meanwhile, retaining its trio of original Super Judges; Shilpa Shetty, Anurag Basu Geeta Kapur, SuperDancer 2 will be hosted by,   and Paritosh Tripathi.
 
 
