CHANDIGARH: Yamunanagar police on Friday claimed to have solved the 10-month-old murder case of businessman  , who died under mysterious circumstances in May 2016, with the arrest of his wife and her paramour.

 Batra’s wife, Priyanka, and her gym trainer Rohit, along with their two accomplices, murdered the businessman by gagging him, said an inspector in Karnal police’s CIA wing, Rampal. He claimed that Batra died of suffocation. Later, calling it a heart attack, they had cremated his body without an autopsy, he added.
 
 According to information, the murder came to light after Batra’s parents, who were forcibly sent out of their house, lodged a complaint with Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia in January this year. They later met Karnal range inspector general of police (IGP), who deputed a team of crime investigation agency (CIA) to probe into the matter.
 
 Sources informed that on March 22, CIA staff had arrested Priyanka and Rohit. During interrogation, they confessed to having eliminated Yogesh for his wealth. On Friday, the CIA staff also arrested their two aides who had helped them in killing Rohit. They have been identified as  , a pharmacist at a private hospital, and one Satish Kumar.
 
 A resident of Sector 17 in Yamunanagar, Batra had plywood factories and owned other properties. Police said Priyanka told them that she met Rohit at a gym she had joined for weight loss and he became her personal trainer. Police said the two developed an intimate relationship. When Yogesh come to know of it, they decided to eliminate him, the inspector said.
 
 Plan for heart attack drug failed
 
 Police said the duo hired Satish and Sonu to commit the crime. As Sonu was a pharmacist, he prepared a sedative to be injected into Yogesh’s body that would trigger a heart attack. “On May 27, 2016, everything was going as per their plans. They called Yogesh to a place where Sonu and Satish made a failed attempt to inject the sedative into his body. As the needle broke, they gagged him and he died of suffocation. They had plans of throwing an unconscious Yogesh into the Yamunar river,” said CIA inspector Rampal. “But that did not happen.”
 
 Case repoened after father’s plaint
 
 Police informed that the case was reopened on a complaint by murdered businessman Yogesh Batra’s father, Subhash, who and his wife were thrown out of the house owned by their son.
 
 Frequent visits raised suspicion
 
 They stated in their complaint that they suspected foul play on part of Rohit as he was on the only person who would frequently visit their house after Yogesh’s death. Besides, he was instrumental in getting Yogesh’s properties and businesses transferred in Priyanka’s name.
 
