(By - Shikha Chandrashekhar)

 BENGALURU: The internet is changing the face of Bengaluru's oldest market ­ the 400-year-old Chickpet, Mamulpet, Doddapete area. Clothing stores, book and electronic shops have all taken a hit over the past few years as consumers surge to online platforms like  ,  ,  , Myntra and Jabong. If Chickpet's attractiveness once was pricing and variety, the online options today offer equally good prices, if not better, and a lot more variety . And consumers don't have to deal with its narrow, congested roads, and poor parking facilities.
 
 Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Hall, a 75-year-old store in the area that sells dress materials, has seen its average daily sales drop around 30% in the past ten years. Rajashekhar K S, its proprietor, said there are plenty of choices online, so not many come to his shop to buy any more. He said but for the rise in prices of dress materials, the drop in sales would have been even sharper.
 
 Vinay of Kid's Camp, a small children's apparel store in Mamulpet, said his sales are stagnating. He said malls and supermarkets too had adversely impacted apparel stores, but the bigger challenge now are online platforms.
 
 Muhammad Muneer used to own a clothing shop in Malleswaram, but when his business was hit by the online surge, he moved to a smaller space on Avenue Road.He said he used to earn Rs 6-7 lakh per month when his Malleswaram business was at his peak, but now earns Rs 1.21.5 lakh a month.“
 
 Book stores on Avenue Road (Doddapete) ­ traditionally the haunt of students in search of school and college books ­ were among the earliest to feel the online impact because both Flipkart and Amazon started off as bookstores. Sri Krishna Book Centre, which sells mostly academic books, has seen a fall in daily earnings from Rs 5,000 a day in 2011, to Rs 1,000Rs 2,000 now. Even though many of the bookstores offer second-hand books at prices lower than for new ones, buyers today prefer to buy new books from the comfort of their homes. In an effort to improve his business, Chain Singh, proprietor of MG Stationers, seller of school and office stationery, joined the Amazon seller platform a month ago. But he hasn't got too many orders through that channel yet. When he does get an order, one of Amazon's logistics persons comes to him to pick up the package and has it delivered.
  
  
 SP Road has been completely transformed. It was once dominated by computer assemblers and was the go-to place for computer parts and assembled computers. As mobile phones surged and branded computer prices dropped, dealers switched to mobiles. Today , all you see are stores selling industrial parts. “SP Road has changed because of the effect online portals have had on electronics,“ said Sajjan Raj Mehta, a proprietor and trade activist in Chickpet. Both Flipkart and Amazon have a massive focus on mobile phones, and several brands today sell exclusively on these platforms.
 
 
 
 
 The nemesis for grocery stores on Avenue Road and Mamulpet has been not so much online ­ though that's also now coming ­ but supermarkets like Big Bazaar, More, D-Mart and HyperCity . Over the past ten years, many of these stores have seen a staggering slump in their businesses. Many have shut down. “10,000 shops are affected for every one supermarket that is built,“ said V Prasanna Kumar, proprietor of Sri Raghvendra Traders in Mamulpet.
 
 The supermarkets have the advantage of having all products, ranging from food, toiletries and plastics, to clothes, electronics and accessories, under one roof.And they have parking and air-conditioning, two amenities that have become a musthave for middle-class shoppers, and which the ChickpetMamulpet area lacks.
 
 
 
 
 The area is not only seeing fewer new customers, it is also discouraging new and smaller entrepreneurs with its steep rentals and rental advances.Chain Singh of MG Stationers said in 2013, he paid an advance of Rs 8 lakh to rent his small shop, and paid a monthly rental of Rs 25,000-30,000.Today , he has neighbours who have paid as much as Rs 25-40 lakh as advance, and pay a rent of Rs 40,000 a month.
 
 Sajjan Raj Mehta attributes this to a shift from an attitude of “shared goodwill“ between members of the market, to one of a pure business outlook.“Earlier, if you knew the person, you would be given some discount on the deposit or rentals. But no one does that anymore,“ he said, adding that though this has made business more systematic, it also reflected a loss of generosity.
 
 While older stores that still have a loyal clientele can hope to deal with higher rentals, most newer entrants can't. The latter are finding it hard to keep their businesses afloat, given that customer numbers too are not rising.
 
 
 
 The ones that continue to do well are those that have had long-term relationships with customers, and those that have product categories that demand touch-and-feel. Many jewellery stores, both small and big, continue to be comfortable in the area. “Most of our customers have been coming to our shop for years, and they haven't left our side,“ said Narayan Kumar, owner of Narayan Jewellers on Avenue Road. The growth of large jewellery store chains such as Tanishq and Joy Alukkas have not affected the traditional customer base, partly because the stores in this area offer lower prices and their customers h ave t h e confidence that they will not be cheated on gold quality.Some even offer personalised services like showcasing the jewellery at customer homes.
 
 Most silk sari stores are doing well. B Byrappa & Sons, which started in 1945, opened another large store in the same lane two years ago because business was growing rapidly ­ at 10-15% every year for the past five years. Sri Murugan Silks and   too said the business is doing well, with the former saying it earns Rs 30-35 lakh a month.
 
 Byresh Byrappa of B By rappa & Sons said the business had not been affected by   at all, because shopping for Kanjee varam silks and saris is entirely a matter of touch-and feel. He also said they have strong personal relationships with their customers. This, together with attractive prices, might explain why they continue to prosper in a congested area despite large stores like Deepam and Vijayalakshmi Silks & Sarees in better locations.
 
 
 
 
 It is said that in the 16th century, Kempegowda, ruler of the Vijayanagara empire, with the help of four pairs of oxen, started ploughing the land in four directions from the point where Chickpet and Doddapete (Avenue Road) meet each other. These four directions became four important trade market roads.Gradually other parallel roads came up and different petes (markets) came into being in accordance with the kind of trade that took place.
 
 THE WAY OUT
 
 Sajjan Raj Mehta, former president of the Karnataka Hosiery and Garments Association, said if provisions for parking are created, it could still lead to a huge jump in business in the area. Suggestions for building parking complexes have been sent to the local authorities. Mehta said he has even suggested a ban on heavy vehicles, and replacing them with light vehicles, in order to decongest roads.
 
 Chickpet Metro Station, which is expected to be functional in the next few months, should positively impact footfalls and traffic in the area. Traders point out that in markets like Jayanagar and Brigade Road, the   has created clean sidewalks and autorickshaw stands and has ensured the roads are well maintained. They say similar initiatives must be implemented in Bengaluru's oldest market.
 
 Chickpet, Mehta said, is a representative of India. It has traders and businessmen from most of the big communities in the country -from Gujaratis, Marwaris and Sindhis, to Malayalis, Tamilians and Muslims. “No one community is king, all are working together to ensure the smooth functioning of the market,“ he said, indicating that if there are serious efforts by the authorities to improve the market, it will find full support from the communities within.
 
