MUMBAI: Does sailing on a yacht over azure seas with the wind playing in your hair summon images of the rich and famous cavorting off exotic shorelines? 

 Despair not. Idle hours spent sailing are no longer the bragging rights of the rich and elite alone. You too can bask in that luxury without burning a seven-figure hole in your pocket as the keys to this nautical kingdom have been tossed to common folks thanks to several experiential groups and private sailing clubs that have surfaced in the city. They beckon seafarers and first-timers to go leisure sailing on chartered yachts and luxury sailboats with a hired captain or by themselves. 
 
 With more than a dozen private sailing clubs offering training camps and the perfect setting in the middle of the sea to throw parties—anniversaries, birthdays, bridal showers and first dates—the city is embracing the coastline like never before. Yachts speeding along shallow waters off the coast, going past Mumbai’s oldest lighthouses, the naval islands and coastal batteries could put cars trudging parallel on Marine Drive to shame. 
 
 Ankita Ghag, a young dietician from Byculla never learnt driving but can sail a boat like a pro. “Isn’t that funny? In fact, I prefer the water to the roads. Less traffic!” she laughs. “I learnt sailing with a youth volunteer group but had given it up up 10 years ago,” says Ghag. “These clubs have made it possible for me to pursue the waters again and have fun with friends too. I’d rather spend my time and money sailing than sitting in a pub.”
 
 Dhruv Dholakia, 20, and Vedant Bhatia, 14, are part of this growing tribe of youngsters who are discovering the joy riding the waves. “It was during the summers that a sailing event at the Gateway popped up. My parents booked out of curiosity. Taken in by the experience I enrolled for a sailing course soon after and got myself a lifetime membership,” says Dhruv, who after a day spent with books and gadgets finds it “refreshing” to head out to the sea and have the breeze stroke his face. “The silence and solitude is precious. It’s a stressbuster,” he says. If Vedant with his six-month sail skills is planning to surprise his classmates with a speedboat jaunt from the Gateway to Mandwa this summer, Dhruv has mastered the jibe and tack manoeuvres that will enable him to sail a boat independently in moderate winds without straying too much from the shore.
 
 “Previously, sailing was only limited to members of the Yacht Club and military personnel. Thanks to some ex-sea cadets who started this business, anyone can come and sail now,” says Jimmy Nadar, a former sea cadet who runs the   from   in Colaba. 
 
 Sailing in India dates back to the pre-Independence days when the first recorded race was sailed on February 6, 1830 in Bombay with five yacht clubs in India promoting sailing. A members-only affair with fees running into lakhs, it came to be a sport for the privileged and the defense forces. 
 
 Apart from the expenses, Indians traditionally have been wary of the sea, says Johann Daniels of Jack & Hill Adventures who introduced leisure sailing to their activity roster in March last year. “It takes a bit of effort to convince them but we’ve managed to dispel a lot of sailing myths.” 
 
 Like any sport, sailing needs to be learnt and practised and seafarers cannot hit the briny waters until they come to grips with sitting at the right place, steering, changing direction and trimming the sails. “The basics can be learnt in a week or over a few sessions. Sailing clubs have a host of professional sailors working as instructors, trained and vetted before taking travellers out to sea,” says Shakeel Kudrolli who quit his job as a corporate lawyer and founded Aquasail to follow his passion. Like Kudrolli, a medallist in world sailing championships, or Nadar who started sailing at 10 as a sea cadet, most private clubs are run by those with professional experiences.
 
 Sailing season usually starts from October and ends in May once monsoon hits and the waters get choppy. The vessels can be categorised into sail boats, sail yachts, motor yachts, speed boats and cabin cruisers that can hold people from four to 40. If the single-handed sailing dinghy is popular among children, the twin hull catamaran for adults is easiest to steer.
 
 However, fashion can take a beating when you’re sliding over the rail, getting sprayed by the high tides or toasted under the sun. Heels and a heavy meal before sailing are best avoided, cautions   of Blue Bulb.
 
 Sailing courses can be a few hours or long-term for a pocket pinch of Rs 8,500 to Rs 62,000. Leisure options run the gamut from fast cruising mono-hulls to all-inclusive luxury catamarans with cabins, saloon and trapeze upfront, staffed with a captain and chef. One can sail for 45 minutes for as little as Rs 1,000 or indulge in a day of sailing with a spa and lunch thrown in at Rs 15,000.
 
 Corporates too are introducing sailing programmes as a team building activity. “They see great gain in rejuvenating their employees’ emotional, physical and social wellbeing on water, most popular experience being Yoga on a Yacht,” says Amrin Ansari of Oyster Sailing Services.
 
 While price is the key driver of this social trend, veteran sailors have taken to building quality boats in India making one of the most extravagant hobbies affordable for all. “Companies find it easier to invest in locally manufactured boats that come at half the price of imported boats that cost Rs 50 lakh. Even members of the fishing community have started making boats for commercial use,” says Nadar. 
 
 Buying a boat isn’t by any means cheap but for those with a secret urge to own one, there are ways to keep costs under check. Companies like   Yacht Services, Aquasail and Gateway Sailing are helping people buy used boats and fractional ownership where a yacht is timeshared by multiple individuals who want to avoid the hassle of maintaining it.
 
 “We’ve done 35,000 sailing trips since 2007 but 50 percent of those numbers have come from the last three years. Things are looking good and we might double our capacity by next year,” says Kudrolli who runs a fleet of 80 boats at Mumbai’s Gateway, Mandwa and Goa.
 
 Clearly, for those in love with the waters, these are splashing times.
 
