Chennai: Even as some of his biggest competitors eye the top-gear growth 250 cc plus segment which Royal Enfield (RE) now dominates, RE boss Siddhartha Lal is confident of holding on to his market leadership.  “A lot of people are encouraged by our success and would like to join us and they are welcome but we won’t roll out the red carpet for them,” he said. “We have a philosophy on motorcycles and we will continue with that. We have some advantages in this segment — we have a very unique product line, we have scale of 60,000 units a month in the 250 cc plus segment which is crucial in terms of cost, visibility, brand presence and resale value and we have an outstanding distribution network,” he added. RE, he said, is working on new products and improving service network and will use the migration to BS6 as an opportunity to “do a generational shift in our motorcycles. The BS6 equivalent Euro5 is coming to Europe in January 2021 while India will roll in BS6 in April 2020 so it will give us the opportunity to be ahead of the curve,” added Lal. RE will be ready for BS6 “well in time,” he said.  RE meanwhile is investing Rs 800 crore to add new capacity to “address the existing requirement” taking its total capacity to 8,25,000 units a year and working on “new demand generation.  We would love to hit a million units in production and sales but we’re never in a rush and we want to make sure there is serious demand and desire for our motorcycles,” added Lal. The focus right now, he said, was on the BS6 migration which will involve substantial increase in costs. “The fuel injection and engine management systems are not manufactured or assembled in India right now so they are expensive,” said Lal. “We are working with suppliers to localise and reduce the costs.”  Till scale allows costs to come down, the migration to BS6 will mean the cost of motorcycles will increase and that in turn ‘could affect demand’.  But higher displacement bikes would be better off because the “absolute cost increase for our bikes and smaller bikes will be similar so as a percentage, the cost increase will be higher for smaller bikes which could prompt the market to move further up to the 250 cc segment,” said Lal.