UDAIPUR: Talking about dirty places in cities, railway stations and bus terminals are what come first in mind and the   in Udaipur was no exception until a fortnight ago. Scenes like  , garbage strewn all around, stray animals and especially   have become things of past as residents have joined hands to keep the terminal premises in Udaipole neat and clean.

 Brainchild of Roadway Vyapari Singh, the initiative has turned out to be a mass movement with thousands of people voluntarily participating in the Swachhta task.
 
 “We thought of conducting a fortnight-long cleanliness abhiyan which ended on January 26. More than 14 institutions along with 2,275 persons and 600 school children joined us in cleaning up the entire premises and we took out 55 trucks of garbage,“ said Dr Jinendra Shastri, custodian of the Roadways Vyapari Sangh.
 
 The movement saw cooperation of people from all walks of life. Corporators, volunteering groups, school and college students, bank officers' association came ahead and picked up brooms to make the bus terminal premises clean.School children painted the walls with beautiful messages, women urged the travelers to use dustbins.
 
 “Besides persuasion, we also penalised hundreds of persons who spit on walls or were found urinating or smoking inside the premises. To tal 1,003 challans were made during the fortnight,“ Deepesh Nagar, chief manager of Rajasthan Roadways, Udaipur depot, told TOI. The abhiyaan does not end here. The terminal has been divided into 45 blocks to ensure that the premises remain clean and tidy throughout the year. “There are 45 shops in the terminal premises and every shopkeeper would be responsible for cleanliness within his area. These shopkeepers would run an awareness program to educate people of the importance of sanitation,“ Shastri said. In second phase, 20 CCTV cameras would be installed for monitoring. To ensure security for lone women travelers, 24-hours patrolling has also been introduced.
 
 The Udaipur Tent Association and Chowdhary Printers have donated two `Pyaaus' for the convenience of travelers.Delighted at the residents' efforts, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria has sanctioned Rs 10 lakh which would be spent in maintenance work.
 
 “The second phase is expected to begin on February 6.This time, we will take up cleanliness tasks for 48 continuous weeks and volunteering organisations would take the responsibility of the upkeep during each week,“ Shastri said.
 
