AURANGABAD: The state government has sought time for its reply on the   (SLP) filed by   in the   over the draft development plan (DP).

 The matter came up before the apex court bench comprising justices Madan B Lokur and Prafulla C Pant on January 10, when the state made the request. The court has now placed the hearing after four weeks.
 
 In his petition, Tupe has challenged the rejection of the controversial draft DP of the   (AMC) in 2015. As many as 10 such petitions have been filed by the civic body through the then mayor Tupe. 
 
 Another SLP was filed by a property owner, saying that he was not given a chance to be heard by the high court.
 
 Delivering a body blow to some civic body officials and corporators, the high court had on August 5 quashed the draft DP and notification, which were issued on February 4, 2016, for large-scale deviation from the proposal and scheme within contemplation of the MRTP Act of 1966.
 
 The original petitioner, Govind Bajirao Navpute, a farmer from of Chikalthana area, and nine others had approached the high court through lawyer Devdutta Palodkar. 
 
 He challenged the DP while seeking direction to the mayor to publish the original DP submitted by the state’s town planning department on October 31, 2015. 
 
 Navpute had also sought direction to the civic body and the mayor to not implement the DP that was published on February 4.
 
 He had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court and subsequently appeared during the hearing on the SLP challenging the high court verdict.
 
 On October 4, when the mayor’s SLPs came up for hearing, Navpute had pointed out to the SC that these petitions have not been filed by the municipal commissioner which is mandated under Section 481 (g) of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act. Hence, he said, the petitions were not maintainable. 
 
 The mayor’s lawyers then sought time for filing necessary applications along with the affidavit of the municipal commissioner. Subsequently, the SC ordered that the matters be listed on October 17.
 
 On October 17, municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria filed an affidavit in the apex court taking a different stand from that of the mayor. He said, “I have gone through the high court and other connected petitions. Having accepted the said judgment, I have decided not to challenge the same by way of filing the special leave petition before the Supreme Court.”
 
 Following Bakorias affidavit, the SC had allowed the deletion of the name of AMC as petitioner in 10 SLPs. 
 
