VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam district, which has 43 mandals and over 550 municipal, government and ZP High Schools with a combined student strength of over 3.5 lakh students, is planning to conduct an experiment to ensure students fare well in mathematics and English. 

 Every school will have summer coaching camps for students starting from Class 5. The focus will be on weak subjects and priority will be given to mathematics, English and science. As the schools have shut down for the summers this year already, the administration plans to implement the scheme from the next academic year. 
 
 School education commissioner K Sandhya Rani said, “The AP HRD ministry has taken upon itself the task of identifying the reasons for students not faring too well in English and mathematics. If one takes a closer look, out of 1,737 students who scored the perfect 10/10 only 70 are from the government schools of Visakhapatnam. However, there has been an improvement over the last one year. In 2016 only 23 students from government schools scored the perfect score.” She said the pass percentage was the least in mathematics at 93.40%
 
 G Nagamani, DEO Visakhapatnam, said Visakhapatnam district shows a huge disparity in results mainly because of the urban-rural and agency zone divide. 
 
 “There is a huge disparity even in government schools. Children from urbanised areas such as Vizag city, Anakapalli, Bheemili and Pendurthi where there are 99 schools (government) usually do better than students in rural areas who themselves do better than students in the agency areas. This issue has to be addressed.” 
 
 “The government is planning to implement a kindergarten scheme in all the government schools and the ministry might experiment with it in Visakhapatnam as it provides the ideal conditions for such an experiment,” she added. 
 
 Earlier while releasing the SSC results, HRD minister   said, “Apart from introducing the kindergarten scheme we have also decided to introduce summer coaching camps in all government schools so that children can both start going to schools at an early age and be provided extra time every academic year to get a proper foundation in subjects such as mathematics and English.”
 
