AMRITSAR: Ruling out the the possibility of any violence on June 6, the anniversary of Operation Bluestar observed as ‘Ghallughara Divas,’ Punjab ADGP (law and order)   said here on Friday that adequate security would be in place. “Violence doesn’t happen every year. Our security arrangements are always in place and so will it be this time,” he said while relaunching the ‘beat system’ in Amritsar commissionerate of police.

 Chaudhary said he didn’t anticipate any possibility of violence given the security arrangements. The issue came to fore after a recent show of support for Khalistan cause by some radical Sikh elements during the visit of Canadian defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan to Amritsar. Demonstrators had raised pro-Khalistan slogans in at the airport and outside the Golden Temple during his visit. 
 
 Following the incident, security agencies here are apprehensive of a more blatant demonstration on June 6. Every year, a large number of Khalisatan supporters converge at the   on the anniversary of Operation Bluestar. Displaying posters with photos of Akal Takht after the Army action, they raise slogans for Khalistan in the presence of a heavy contingent of security personnel, including senior police officers, who are stationed in the Golden Temple complex in plain clothes.
 
 Meanwhile, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president   said they would hold a meeting to review the arrangements for the ‘Ghallughara Divas.’ He informed that bhog of Akhand Path would be performed in memory of the ‘martyrs’ and Jathedar of Akal Takht would deliver the message. On security , Badungar said it was the government’s job. He, however, said, “Governments often become too apprehensive.”
 
 Adding that ‘martyrs’ were respected in every community, he said everyone should pay due respect to those who lived till their last breath to protect Sikh’s supreme temporal seat Akal Takht from the attack.
 
 In Tarn Taran, the district administration observed an anti-terrorism day on Friday. Deputy commissioner D P S Kharbanda administered oath to officials to combat any form of terrorism and violence.
 
 
