The city is feeling the heat. And no, it isn’t just because of the soaring mercury levels that show no signs of relenting. Pop sensation   is all set to perform in Mumbai on May 10 as part of his Purpose World Tour and Bieber mania is at an all-time high. The 23-year-old, who has legions of fans across the globe, will be belting out some of his biggest hits in the city. 
Having achieved international fame at 15, Bieber has courted a number of controversies over the years. From posting pictures of himself in the buff to having a string of high-profile girlfriends, Bieber has as much been in the limelight for his chartbusters as for his colourful escapades off-stage. 
 
 His most publicised relationship was with singer-actress  , who he dated for several years till they split for good. Bieber and Selena’s five year on/off relationship was tumultuous to say the least, with allegations of cheating (on both sides), pregnancy claims (Justin was accused of fathering a child with a 20-year-old fan, Mariah Yeater, after the couple allegedly had sex after his show in Los Angeles; the case was later dropped) and jealousy. 
 
 In an interview, Bieber said that he thinks the two met very early in life. “It was really tough. How many people go through life and end up meeting someone and it feels so right, but it’s just the wrong time? So many people can relate to that.” After his split from Selena, Bieber has gone on to date several women, but hasn’t really been serious with anyone. Here’s a quick look...
 
 March 2017
 Bieber’s newest rumoured girlfriend is Brazilian model  , who has been seen with him on several occasions. 
 
 August, 2016
 Last year, Bieber was rumoured to be dating model  , daughter of singer Lionel Richie, with the two often posting pictures of each other on their social media accounts and even going on trips to Japan and Mexico. The relationship lasted just a few months, with the singer breaking up with Sofia due to undisclosed reasons. 
 
 July, 2016
 Bieber and model   dated for a short while in 2014 before rekindling their relationship in July 2016. The relationship reportedly fizzled out in no time. 
 
 June 2016
 After being introduced at an album release party in Toronto, Bieber and actress Nicola Peltz hit it off and were spotted on a number of dates. Unconfirmed reports even said that the two had several steamy sleepovers at Bieber’s sprawling Beverly Hills home before deciding to go their separate ways.
 
 January 2016
 Bieber and Hailey Baldwin made their relationship official in early 2016, when the model joined Bieber and his family on a vacation in Anguilla. The couple even posted intimate photos of themselves on social media, but within weeks, Baldwin announced that the two were not in an exclusive relationship. 
 
 December 2015
 It was a bolt from the blue for fans when reports started circulating that Bieber was secretly hooking up with mother of three, Kourtney Kardashian. Spotted hanging out at nightclubs and restaurants, rumours of the two being involved swirled for months before Bieber moved on to younger pastures.
 
 May 2015 
 Brit model Jayde Pierce faced the wrath of Beliebers when pictures of the two walking naked while on vacation in Bora Bora went viral on social media. While the relationship didn’t last, some reports suggest that Bieber’s single Love Yourself is about Pierce.
 
 Other rumoured flings
 
 
 
 
 
 
