The buzz around 'Half Girlfriend' has gathered momentum with the launch of its teaser and the score. The curiosity around the film was triggered when   announced that she would adapt Chetan Bhagat’s novel of the same name for the big screen which would be helmed by  . The movie, which stars   and  , is the first co-production of the trio. The making of   was a different journey for Chetan whose books have been adapted for the big screen before. He was present on the set throughout the shoot, which was carried out in Patna, Delhi and New York. The slam dunk scenes assume a different proportion in the film. NBA (National Basketball Association) professionals from the USA coached the actors for the scenes. 
As was the case with the director and producer’s previous movies, this one too has music playing an important role. What makes it more interesting for Chetan is that the important scenes and moments have been enhanced with a musical touch. The soulful soundtrack is a result of various composers like Mithoon, Tanishk Bagchi, Farhan Saeed, Rahul Mishra, Ami Mishra and Rishi Rich creating different kinds of songs for this musical romantic drama. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 "For me, the journey of 'Half Girlfriend' is unforgettable! From adapting a best seller into a film, to getting music that perfectly fits the emotions and situations to finally giving life to characters through Arjun and Shraddha. Mohit, Chetan and I are proud our collaboration." 
 
 
  "'Half Girlfriend', in a way, is about the dichotomy in our society. A girl with an affluent South Delhi background, travels the world and speaks English but comes from a family that can be backward in thinking as opposed to a boy who grows up in small town India and is raised by an independent mother. What I like about   is that he doesn’t write books to compete with other writers. He writes about the youth of India and the common Indian man." 
 
 
  'Half Girlfriend' is a difficult adaptation and its made on a wide canvas. From rural Bihar to Delhi to NY — the story traverses various worlds. Mohit knows how to make films with modest budgets, and that’s also where his expertise has benefitted this film. Our film looks very expensive when it’s not. Efficient planning and execution ensures that we win half the battle before we are at the cinemas. It’s interesting how we’ve shot the film: we’ve filmed beside a river in Bihar and from a chopper over the Oakland bridge. It’s been a long journey for me, but a wonderful and memorable one at that. 
 
 'Half Girlfriend', produced by Balaji Motion Pictures, Mohit Suri and Chetan Bhagat, releases on May 19. 
 
  
  
 
 
