KOLKATA: Two years ago, international media had highlighted how Sir Elton John’s mother   was forced to hire his lookalike Paul Bacon’s band for her 90th birthday celebrations. This was after the mother-son relationship took a dip when she had allegedly made a negative comment about the legendary star’s husband David Furnish. But now the mother-son are back in touch after an eight-year feud. The Elton fans in Kolkata, will get a chance to watch Bacon perform live — dressed in Elton’s suit, trademark circular glasses and bling.

 After performing in Bengaluru and Chennai, Bacon’s ‘Ultimate Elton and The Rocket Band’ will reach Kolkata on Thursday morning. “We are very excited to visit Kolkata. I am not very familiar with the music that originates from the city, but am looking forward to hear as much as I can when we arrive,” Bacon said.
 
 Describing his first meeting with the legendary musician, Bacon was wearing one of Elton’s suits that he had bought from a charity event. “I was slightly in awe of him. However, he was very warm and easy to talk to. His dressing room had a table with many cologne bottles and several pairs of glasses,” he recounted.
 
 While many tribute bands are often relegated to the sidelines for being copycats, Bacon’s band has been lucky. It won National Tribute Awards 2016 in the UK.   invited them on her birthday after watching them perform during their concert. “It was a privilege and we were very nervous. It was not the largest audience we’ve played to, but certainly the most important. I had met Farebrother a couple of times before her party and she was very encouraging,” he said.
 
 Didn’t Bacon ask why his band and not Elton himself was called over to perform? “We didn’t want to ask any personal questions. Elton was performing somewhere else that night,” he said adding he has kept in touch with the legend’s mother. “She was very interested to hear we were coming to India,” he said.
 
 On her birthday, Farebrother had given them a list of songs she wanted them to perform. “It included a lot of Elton’s best loved songs such as ‘Your song’, ‘Something about the way you look tonight’, ‘The one’, and ‘Don’t go breaking my heart’,” he recalled.
 
 As a tribute band, it’s obvious to have audience compare their performance to the original. When asked what quality of Elton is the most difficult to copy, he said, “My keyboard player,  , helps with the complex arrangements.” Insisting the band works “very hard” to make each song “sound as authentic as possible”, he admits the most complex is ‘Funeral for a friend’ and ’Loves lies bleeding’.
 
 Overwhelmed by the enthusiasm shown by the Indian audience, the friendliness and hospitality here, Bacon plans to take back a gift for his idol. “We have seen some wonderful clothes here and Elton loves his spectacular outfits. So we would look for something bright and colourful.”
 
 
