MUMBAI: Exactly a year after chief minister   stayed the civic body's controversial   policy, the city is yet to get a new or revised policy.

 The 11-month interim policy, which had been cleared by the civic improvements committee in December 2016, is also in the limbo as it is not likely to come up before the civic House with the election code of conduct under way . "But administrative work will continue, and we can give out notices to take back open spaces from private players," said additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh, also in charge of civic gardens department.
 
 On January 15, 2015, Fadnavis stayed the open spaces policy after activists criticized it, claiming that it favoured political bigwigs. The CM also sought that the 216 plots adopted by private players be taken back immediately . These included Horniman Gardens at Fort, St Xaviers Ground in Parel maintained by Mumbai District Football Association headed by Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray , and Swatantra Veer Savarkar Udyan in Borivli and Netaji   Bose Kridangan in Kandivli maintenan ce guided under   MP Gopal Shetty . But till date, the BMC has only taken back 140 plots.
 
 "It is clear that plots with a political backing have not been taken back," claimed activist  , also former information commissioner with Central Information Commission. "With the BMC bringing in an 11-month interim policy, it appears that third-party interests in open spaces will continue to be created. It would be a welcome move to see political parties in the upcoming polls assure their voters that no open space would be given out to private players," he added.
 
 Activist Ashok Ravat alleged, "There is clearly a nexus between netas and the administration owing to which the BMC has been shying away from taking back all plots...For a corporation flushed with such a huge budget, it is important that it looks after all open spaces."
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 With a humungous annual budget of Rs 37,052 crore, out of which Rs 312.2 crore was allocated in the year 2016-17 for gardens, the civic body has no reason not to maintain Mumbai's open spaces on its own. Activists have been right in saying that creating third-party interest in public open spaces could lead to such spaces getting usurped. It is unfortunate that a year after the CM's diktat, only 140 of the total 216 open spaces with private players have been taken back by the civic administration.
 
 
