KOLKATA: Had he been alive,   would have been sitting with his lawyers by now, charting out his defence against the charges slapped against him, such as   and negligent act likely to spread infection.

 These charges were invoked against the former engineer after it was discovered that he had been living at their ancestral mansion on 3,   with the decayed body of his sister Debjani and the remains of his two Labradors for six months. The anxiety over the impending trial could have been one of the reasons why De might have taken his life, said the police. De's preliminary autopsy report suggested that he had set himself on fire, rather than anyone setting him ablaze.
 
 The police were now looking at all possible motives that might have led De to take the drastic step. Sources said they were looking at five probable reasons: a property tussle, hurt by the way he was being projected in the media, the upcoming trial that would have pitted him against the state, his urge to “reconnect“ with his deceased sister Debjani--he had posted her photo on Facebook last December--and a sudden mental condition that might have been caused by his illness.
 
 Questioning of his caregiver, Pradip Sarkar, revealed that De had asked him to get matchsticks, apparently to light incense sticks. “However, we are still to account for the petrol. A few petrol pumps around Watgunge are being asked to share information about their sales inventory with us,“ said a source.Cops said they would also study the heaps of papers and diaries still lying at his Watgunge flat.
 
 Checking the details of De's mobile service provider, the police have found De last called up someone called, Aggarwal, who was associated with the NGO that ran Turning Point at Jadavpur, the rehabilitation centre for the psychologically ill. De was an instructor there but skipped his class on the fateful Tuesday morning as he had an upset stomach. But he still sent across a pen drove with the aerobics lesson for the day. “We will trace this person, Aggarwal, and speak to him to ascertain if he had picked up any early signs hinting at De's mental and emotional status,“ said the police, adding that they would also try to record a statement of De's uncle, Arun, and aunt Mukti. The couple, along with their son, have moved out of Robinson Street and now lives probably close to Triangular Park.
 
 The police, who are yet to unlock De's laptops and mobiles, visited the Park Street branch of a public sector bank to collect details. Officers also plan to record the statements of De's aunt, Anjali, and cousin, Jaya, whom he had apparently tried to approach after he had stopped talking to his father in 2015. “We hope at least one of them will be willing to claim De's body,“ said an officer.
 
