 

 
 
 I have converted one remote village into a smart village. I first created a model village and then over the decade turned it into a smart village powered by solar energy and equipped with Wi-Fi connection. The village has telemedicine facilities in dispensaries and all modern amenities that one can find in a metro.
 
 
 
 I lost my father at the age of four. From that age I have been struggling. I struggled for food till the age of 25. And for the last 25 years I have been struggling to feed 25,000 poor children. At 50, my life is still a struggle. Bringing poor children from dense forests to a big city and giving them a decent life and education till the age of 25 requires a lot of courage. That is my contribution to society.
 
 
 
 I have decided not to expand KIIT University in any part of the country and the state but only focus on enhancement of quality. I want to concentrate my energy on eradication of poverty and hunger with the help of education through Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS). I plan to expand KISS across the state and the country.
 
 
 
 Successive governments and many NGOs have been running many such free schools. But our case is different. It is not just about providing free education to poor children, it is complete transformation of the children in a decent environment. The tribal students at KISS have reached many international milestones, whether it is in the field of sports or innovation and have created inspiring stories for their peers. This model of holistic transformation of life cannot be found anywhere else in the world.
 
 
 
 The message that policymakers around the world are trying to drive home today has long been in practice at our institution. I had thought of it 25 years ago and started KISS. We have been able to provide education to thousands of poor children. We’ve paved the way for others to follow.
 
 
 
 KIIT itself is a self-financed university. It is running with the help of students who enrol themselves here. KISS, on the other hand, is running solely from the donations of benevolent students, teachers and stakeholders of KIIT.
 
 
 
 Apart from Bhubaneswar, KISS has one centre in Delhi’s Najafgarh. We plan to open centres in other parts of Odisha soon. Some corporates have evinced interest in setting up schools in districts like Balasore, Mayurbhanj and Bolangir. I plan to set up KISS in 20 districts in Odisha.
 
 
 
 We have already converted the entire KISS digital. The campus is fully Wi-Fi-enabled and is completely cashless, paperless and wire-less.
 
 
 
 We are encouraging youngsters to start their own enterprises. Some of our students have developed diesel out of spent oil, low cost LED bulbs, to name a few. We train our young minds at a centre approved by the Department of Science and Technology of the Union government.
 
 
 
 We did provide a loan of Rs 2 crore to around 10 youngsters for their start-ups. We have given them three years to repay after they are successful in their venture. Apart from that we also provide logistical and consultation support to our students.
 
 
 
 KIIT University has constructed a campus on over 120,000 sq ft area exclusively for innovation and research almost a year ago.
 
 
 
 Things have definitely moved towards better. Till the 80s there was no electricity or road network; basic amenities eluded the villages. But now development has touched villages across the state.
 
 
 
 I am sure it has. The Maoists target poor and deprived young people. I am giving them an alternative life. If these 25,000 children were not in Bhubaneswar, studying, living a decent life and preparing for a better tomorrow, I shudder to think how many of the boys could have taken up arms out of compulsion. Many could have died of malnutrition and diseases. The impact of KISS in the lives of poor tribals is unimaginable.
 
 
 
 Till now I haven’t. And, I don’t think I will join politics.
 
 
 
 I don’t have a role model. I have got all my inspiration from my mother who has struggled a lot to bring us up.
 
 
 
 No. On the contrary, it will inspire them to come up. If Bhubaneswar is to develop 100%, they will then come up to 30%, at least. In the end, the state will develop.
 
 
 
 
