Vadodara: He graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the US in 1969 but Robert Markey, an expert in physics and mathematics, never pursued the field he studied. Instead, he chose to visit different countries, paint at public places and work with under-privileged children. Markey is now busy painting a huge wall of Sir Sayajirao Nagar Gruh in Akota, which is alraedy attracting attention from the visitors. 

 In Gujarat to work with the underprivileged school children, 69-year-old Robert is accompanied by 35-year-old Benjamin Swatez, another artist from the US. The duo has joined hands with the local Pithora artists and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to turn the town-hall’s wall into a masterpiece without charging a penny. 
 
 “I was six-years-old when I learnt painting but when I was in second semester of my masters degree in MIT, I took a wooden sculpture course. And I immediately realized that this is what I wanted to do all my life. In 1980s, I took to painting,” Markey told TOI. 
 
 He witnessed turbulent times including wars and domestic violence in the US and used painting to express himself. 
 
 “In 1990s, I did sculpture and paintings around the theme of domestic violence in the US and in 2003 I was even jailed for protesting USA’s war against Iraq. I have done artworks in different countries for free as I felt that if I could bring happiness in the lives of these children then my efforts are worth it,” said Markey, who works as a carpenter for a living.
 
 “I am enjoying working with Pithora artists in Vadodara,” he added. Benjamin, on the other hand took to painting, as he was suffering from insomnia. “I was just three-year-old so my parents decided to let me learn painting and I used to paint till sunrise. Having a troubled childhood, I moved to Sweden and spent some tough time while growing up,” said Benjamin, a graduate in photography and fine arts from the University of California. 
 
 “I used to paint walls with children on the sidewalks and I began enjoying sharing my work. I have done paintings in refugee camp on the Syria border and I also teach art therapy,” Benjamin added. When asked about his experience of working with Pithora artists, curated by Sachin Kaluskar, in Vadodara, Benjamin said, “I loved the purity of Pithora art and how they show their gratitude of being alive through their paintings. We don’t understand each other’s language but art is the medium of our communication. It’s fun painting the town-hall wall.”
 
 Pithora artist and President’s award winner, Mansingh Dhanji too is elated to share his artwork with the American artists. “I didn’t understand their language but loved their work and learnt a lot from them. They also asked us about Pithora art.” 
 
 
