Nagpur: The heavy downpour on Sunday night helped bring down Vidarbha’s rainfall backlog by 1%, even as the region still reels under 24% deficit this season. However, the monsoon, which usually last from June to September, is expected to last up to October this year. Hence, the region still has time to get over the deficit. In the wee hours of Monday, the city recorded 25.6mm rain. The same night, Wardha received the highest rainfall in the region at 63.8mm, followed by Chandrapur at 38mm. Monday turned out to be a sunny day. However, as per IMD forecast, there are chances of heavy rains on Tuesday and Monday. The withdrawal of monsoon usually begins from September 1 from Rajasthan, but has already been delayed by 18 days, and is expected to face further delay of one week. Following this, monsoon in Vidarbha is likely to withdraw only by the third quarter of October. Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director AD Tathe said, “It’s been raining at Rajasthan. We are waiting to observe at least five consecutive days of no rainfall there. That will be a sign of monsoon withdrawal. However, in next five days we don’t have much hope.” Tathe further said, “The low pressure circle that exists at the lower level (from earth surface till 1.5km above) needs to be replaced by anticyclone formation. Unless that happens, the withdrawal may face further delay.” From the day of monsoon withdrawal at Rajasthan, it takes about 45 days for monsoon to withdraw from Vidarbha. However, the entire monsoon season (from June till date) has been in deficit, so this delay in withdrawal may only do good to the region, as per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). In the current scenario, Buldhana is the only district in the region doing well this monsoon with normal rainfall. Close to that will be Nagpur district with 5% rainfall deficiency. On the other hand, Gondia has highest deficiency of 39%. As of now, Vidarbha is the most deficient region of the state at 24%. Western Maharashtra is rainfall surplus by 18%, Marathwada is in deficit of only 1%. Overall, the state’s figures show normal rainfall at -2%.