CHANDIGARH:   Judge at   of India and executive chairman, National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), has stressed the need for   like online dispute resolution mechanisms to increase greater outreach to the ultimate consumer of  .

 He was speaking at the 'Global Pound Conference', a three-day international event themed on 'shaping the future of dispute resolution and improving access to justice" at the Chandigarh Judicial Academy on Saturday.
 
 “The army of techno-lawyers at the grassroots level could organise online dispute resolution with Indian and foreign companies and that system can offer a speedier, inexpensive method of adjudication,” Justice Mishra said addressing the conference.
 
 The conference was marked by various sessions chaired by the Justice Dipak Misra, Justice  , and Justice A K Sikri, Judges of the Supreme Court of India.
 
 He further advocated for giving legislative back-up to pre-litigation mediation and building national and state legal policies on mediation which holds vast potential for emerging as an effective alternate dispute resolution (ADR) mechanism. Treat mediation as an action-oriented verb, not just a proper noun, he said.
 
 Justice Misra expressed the hope that in a world where the number of litigations are increasing at a pace faster than other litigations, changes would be made in the legislative paradigm and the legislative regime would incorporate mediation and related aspects, in the near future. Adopting such policy will propel mediation into action-oriented mechanism.
 
 He also mentioned that currently the legislation was not equipped for pre-litigation mediation and hoped that mediation would also be incorporated in the legislative regime in the near future.
 
 In response to the discussions, Justice A K Sikri stressed the need for the judiciary/ judges to realize that in disputes of commercial nature, the typical adjudicatory process may not be the best. There remains extreme sensitivity in the judiciary to understanding the modes of alternative dispute resolution as arbitration and mediaton as workable solutions.
 
 Justice Madan B Lokur who chaired the first session, was of the view that there is inherent need to sensitize the parties to the idea of mediation and strengthen the notion of relationship building.
 
 It was felt that in the current legal scenario, lawyers and advocates are the best persons to steer parties towards effective mediation and the idea of mediation advocacy must not only be developed but embedded in the minds of members of the legal fraternity.
 
 The conference was based on an interactive platform where participants vote on a given set of questions through the application on their smart phones.
 
 The panelists comprising illustrious legal minds held discussions based on the voting pattern and results. Distinguished judges from various high courts as well as legal practitioners, academicians and students formed an integral part of the participants.
 
 The topics ranged from describing the expectations of clients from dispute resolution mechanisms to the role clients wish their counsels and the adjudicator to adopt towards their grievance. 
 
