Chennai: A Rs 329-crore tender process for purchase of LET street light fittings for the entire, has been stayed by Madras high court, after it was brought to its notice that bidders were made to get evaluated by Chennai corporation which hardly has any accredited facilities.

 The project, fully funded by the Centre, envisages purchase of 9.06 lakh street light fittings through e-tender and e-bids to be conducted by 31 district collectors in the state.
 
 The first bench of Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice RMT Teekaa Raman granted the interim order of stay for a period of two weeks, on a PIL filed by C Karthikeyan of T Nagar. He said he was a member of Federation of Anti-Corruption Team India ( ).
 
 The PIL said Clause 4 of Section 3 of the general conditions in the tender notification stipulated that quality of LED bulbs must be evaluated by Chennai Corporation’s electrical department. Calling it as illegal and saying it will lead to a lot of irregularities, the PIL said the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) is the sole competent authority to test and certify such samples.
 
 Chennai Corporation’s electrical department is not equipped with instruments to conduct tests, and it is not authorised by NABL, the PIL said, adding that all prospective bidders had already got their samples tested by NABL and they same could not be tested by an incompetent authority such as electrical department of Chennai Corporation.
 
 The PIL also assailed legality of condition 5 which mandated bidders to submit proof that they had completed similar type of work, not less than 50% of the value of the bid under a single agreement, for a state or central government department/boards/government undertaking/local bodies. Such a condition will qualify only those bidders who had already participated in such projects, the PIL said, adding that the condition had been inserted in a biased manner. Most of the bidders will be unable to participate in the project because of this condition which will create monopoly among bidders, it said.
 
 The PIL wanted these conditions to be quashed and the technical bid declared as illegal, besides a direction to send samples to an NABL accredited laboratory.
 
 
