Despite having made three hit Kannada films — Aramane, Sanju Weds Geetha and Mynaa — all the offers that came to director-actor Nagashekar thereafter were for remakes. “I was not comfortable with that and was biding my time, wondering what to do next when actor   called me with a proposal,” says Nagashekar, about how he became associated with the upcoming film,  . In a quick chat with us, ahead of the film’s release this week, the filmmaker tells us about the film, the tragedy on the set, in which two actors died, which almost stalled it completely, and more.
 “When Vijay called me to discuss a story he had in mind, he wanted me to help him flesh it out into a   and screenplay. I was quite impressed with his one-liner and spent the next eight months writing it. I came up with several versions and each time I finished it, I had a better idea and started rewriting it. The version that we have now made into this film is the fifth one that I wrote and I believe that it has come out well. The story is very relevant to today’s times and explores the importance of forests, and, in particular, tigers, in the ecological landscape. Once the script was in place, we began our search for a  , but after a point, the producers thought that it would be best if I took on the job, considering that I knew the subject inside out. At that point, I was committed to direct another film, but as luck would have it, that project was stalled and I was able to work on Maasti Gudi. Making this film was my destiny,” explains the filmmaker.
 While   is all praise for the producers who spared no cost in ensuring the project went well, be it in terms of the cast and crew he wanted, locations or computer graphics, he also says that Maasti Gudi is well and truly Vijay’s vision. “The dedication and passion Vijay had for this film is unprecedented and he took special care that he looked and behaved his part as well as he could. In fact, he has five different looks in the film, and only a couple required massive makeup. Also, considering that this tale is set in a forest, we shot in actual locations and everyone on the team was more than supportive and never once complained about the lack of network or other amenities in the dense jungle,” he says.
 So, what genre does the film fit into? “It is as good as a new genre, considering that there are elements of a thriller, drama, action and romance in it. It also has a pertinent social message set against a commercial backdrop, without ever getting preachy,” says Nagashekar.
 But while there’s a noble intention behind the project, it almost didn’t make it to the finishing line owing to a tragic incident on set that cost the team the lives of two actors. “It was never our intention to have anyone suffer bodily harm. In fact, had we known that the sequence would have disastrous consequences, we would have adapted it on computer graphics, as we have for 30-40% of the film. But then, things happen that are completely in god’s hands. In the aftermath of the incident, everyone involved with the film was harassed, while all we wanted to do was something good for the two guys who lost their lives. Today, we are just days away from the film’s release, which has happened only because of support from Ambareesh and the Film Chamber. Together, we have forged a way forward, and, by releasing the film and showing the world what it is about, we want to also help the families of the two actors,” Nagashekhar signs off.
 
