HYDERABAD: Dealing with a peculiar case of a   getting denied a seat in Hyderabad NALSAR university's PG law course on grounds related to domicile status, Justice B Siva Sankara Rao of the Hyderabad High Court has directed the varsity authorities to keep aside one seat till the adjudication of the case. 

 The judge was dealing with a petition filed by P Srinitha of Gadwal, who studied up to SSC in Gadwal itself. Later, she did her Intermediate in Hyderabad city. She secured more than 85 per cent marks in all these examinations and went on to do her BBA, LLB(Hon's) from Bhubaneswar. 
 
 In May-2017, when there was a nationwide test for LLM course, CLAT-LLM-2017, organized by Chanakya National Law University, Patna, Srinitha appeared and secured an All India Rank of 1,023. In Telangana, she stood at Unreserved - 818 rank. Accordingly, she was directed to approach Nalsar, Hyderabad to secure admission under the Telangana unreserved quota as Hyderabad falls under her native state. She was also allotted a seat in Hyderabad Nalsar in the first phase of counselling and even paid the fee amount of 2.05 lakh. But later, stating that she was not fitting into the local definition, she was denied the seat. 
 
 Hyderabad Nalsar has prescribed a rule that only those who studied the law degree in Telangana or those who resided at least four preceding years in the last seven years in Telangana are eligible to get a seat under the Telangana resident student category. 
 
 Her counsel Jandhyala Ravi Shankar found fault with the authorities by stating that they were playing havoc with the lives of students. "Already, there is a confusion about the definition of native, domicile, residence, abode etc. Now the officials are adding more confusion to this already grey area. For getting elected to  , one can contest from anywhere in the country and can get elected to the   from any state in the country," the counsel said. and questioned as to why barriers are being put in the way of students. 
 
