Mysuru: The state government will soon direct the   ( ) to issue degree certificates to the students who were admitted to various courses till the academic year 2013-14.

 This comes as a big relief to lakhs of in-house students who cleared all the examinations conducted by the university. But the decision will not be applicable to franchise/study centre and technical course students.
 
 Additional Chief Secretary K Ratna Prabha, who is also heading a committee formed by the state higher education department to look into the various issues related to KSOU, tweeted that the state government is trying to solve issues related to in-house programme students. “Only in-house candidates have a chance. Not franchise/study centres & technical students,” she tweeted.
 
 Meanwhile, Ratna Prabha denied that the state government has formed a committee under her chairmanship to suggest modalities to close down KSOU. “The committee is constituted not to shut down the varsity, but to study all aspects and give recommendations,” she told TOI.
 
 According to sources in the state higher education department, a decision in this regard will be taken by the state cabinet soon. “As per the decision, the KSOU will be directed to hold convocations for these students and issue certificates. These certificates will be considered for all the state government jobs, including for the various competitive examinations conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission,” said a source.
 
 “The KSOU had sought government’s clarification regarding issuing degree certificates to in-house students nearly two years ago. Even though the government had favoured issuing certificates, no direction was issued to KSOU officially. Now, a communication will be sent to KSOU after cabinet’s approval,” said an officer.
 
 “Chief minister Siddaramaiah has assured us that the state government will soon issue a direction to the KSOU to issue degree certificates to all in-house students,” MLC Marithibbe Gowda said.
 
 BJP leader demands CBI probe
 
 Former medical education minister S A Ramadas has urged the state government to hand over the   to CBI. He alleged that KSOU marks cards were sold even in foreign countries. “Only a CBI probe can ensure justice to lakhs of students,” he said.
 
 
