it’s been a particularly shameful week for the   in Kerala. Even as the church is grappling with how to deal with the shocking news of a priest in Thalassery raping and impregnating a minor girl, comes yet another instance of appaling misogyny and crass sexism, which has a Malayali priest at its heart, yet again. And it’s going viral online. 

 Father  ,  , Bangalore, was caught on camera recently, spouting outrageous statements targeting the young womenfolk in his parish. From addressing   as “things” to suggesting that they should be “drowned in the deep sea” for the “sin of tempting good Christian men and boys” by “wearing men’s clothes, like   and shirts” —the priest’s cringe-worthy ‘sermon’, which was aired on a Christian TV channel first, and then, shared by a user on Facebook, has been attracting much ire from all over the country.
 
  According to Fr Sharlo, “those things (girls) come for mass in jeans and shirt, with their hair flying wild — not even tied up with a ribbon — and arouse the appachans (old men) and the young boys who otherwise come to church with good intentions.” He then, ridiculously, goes on to ask, “Has the Holy Bible given you the right to wear men’s clothes, I ask you dear girls?” Repeatedly referring to jeans-clad women as “half-naked”, Sharlo also uses the pulpit to pass verdicts on “wanton sinners who lead menfolk astray” and even claims that these “half-naked” girls tempt their own brothers and fathers, thus justifying rape and incest! For a celibate, Sharlo seems to know a great deal about women, women’s anatomy and their clothing. Sample this: “One decent outfit you girls used to have — the churidar. But the devil has crept into that too! You have thrown away the shawl (duppatta) and you walk barechested saying ‘Look, father, look...’”
 
 Really now, father?! Is that what you think women are telling you when they walk up to you? Then it’s about time you hear what Kerala’s womenfolk really want to tell you. Over to them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Things — do we really look like things to you, father? And if we do, then aren’t you the one who is objectifying us in your mind’ — that’s the question I want to ask this man. He can pretend that he is chastising us girls for the sake of the pavam men who are aroused by our bodies, but it is a little too obvious he is the one objectifying the women he sees and that the only thing he ever notices about the womenfolk in his church is their clothes, that too to the last detail — he knows what’s covered, what’s not, how tightly the leggings fit their thighs or how high the slit of the kurta is cut. I am disgusted to say the least. 
 
 
 
 
 Both men and women wore loose robes with a waist belt in Israel when the Old Testament was written. neither men nor women follow that costume today anywhere in the world, not even in Israel! Anyway, does   give you permission to wear trousers and shirt, father?
 
 
 
 
 
 A priest is supposed to protect the women in his church and consider them as his children. If such a person wishes death on those under him, his position needs a rethinking. Should I be scared? 
 
 
 
 
 How does wearing a jeans and a top become half naked? Also, it is highly unlikely that young boys today feel uncomfortable on seeing a girl in jeans. Is this priest projecting his own issues on to the boys? 
 
 
 
 The first Holy Communion means the child is barely 12 years old. To think that the priest could look at a small child and feel she is half naked surely means he has serious issues which need to be addressed. Is someone listening?! 
 
 
 
 
 The human body is the temple of the divine and therefore we have to adorn it and revere it. It is a matter of freedom and faith. I am rather apprehensive and reluctant to prescribe any dress code. It is not at all healthy that men decide a dress code for women; if so, can women decide the dress code of men? Dressing patterns will change with the times. Boys are naturally attracted to girls and girls are attracted to boys, the mutual attraction is natural. One must present oneself as decent and dignified. In our consumer culture there is a tendency to show oneself as attractive as a consumer good and that is what we see in everyday life. Anything in the market is advertised with songs and looks. This commodifying attitude can creep into dressing too. The church is not against fashion and beautiful dresses with which the young and old adorn their bodies. If at all there are some problems of indecent dressing and belittling looks, the issue can be best brought to the notice of the parish community with the parents instructing the youngsters. I wish a priest speaks of modesty in a modest way and chastity in a chaste manner. Priests are ordained to speak a holy language ennobling everyone.
 
 
 
 
 I can’t believe such idiocies are being said in the 21st century. The boys in the church are losing self-control he says, it is he himself who is losing it! Also, it is wrong to interpret the Old Testament in today’s context. There are a lot of obscenities in the Old Testament. It is time for the Pope to call a third Vatican Council, to reinterpret ideas and concepts like in the Old Testament in the 21st century. After I left the nunnery, I used to wear sari and churidar but I left all that now and wear pants and shirt. People said I’m trying to imitate men by wearing pants. But what is a man’s attire and a woman’s attire? Among human attire, man chose the most comfortable and convenient for himself — pants. You can move easily in it. Women were made to wear sari the most inconvenient attire ever. As women, we will wear what is comfortable for us. The problem is with the eyes of the one who finds it obscene.
 A priest should teach the boys that girls are also human beings, and that even if they wear nothing they should have self-control. Instead he is justifying their sins, isn’t he but a spokesman of patriarchy? I remember an instance where a woman in leggings and a completely covered Muslim woman were sitting next to each other in an aeroplane. A man behind groped the covered woman, not the other. I think the reason is that men are a little scared of women who dress boldly.
 
 
 
 The priest says a person should be judged by what they wear and that the blessings of God depend on one’s dressing! What bullshit! While he was asking girls not to wear jeans quoting the Bible verses, he should have also thought about what the Bible says on aathmaniyanthranam (self-control). Why didn’t he take a class for those boys who came to complaint about girls on how not to be led into temptations?
 
 Probably he can only see women as objects and might be getting sexual feelings when he sees even a little girl! He is a pervert and should be treated. He was complaining about jeans, what about the sari? Is it a ‘moral’ attire? The priest referred to a brother raping his sister who wore short trousers. I have been wearing shorts for years and my brother has never groped me! If they feel that interacting with women creates trouble and makes them lose their self-control, it is time for them to boycott the entire gender. 
 
 In the name of religion, priests like him are injecting regressive thoughts and misogyny into people who trust their religion and the priests’ sermons blindly. 
 
 
 
 
 I felt ashamed watching the video of the priest. He is an insult to men. He generalises that every man looks at women as sexual objects, regardless of whether they are their mother, sister or daughter. This man’s body language, gestures and tone is suspect and he seems to say sin is happening everywhere around. It is evident that he is a womaniser and has been utilising his powers for enjoying worldly pleasures. People find sexual pleasures in different ways. Some derive it by looking at erotic pictures, some by voyeurism and some by talking about things and fantasising about them! This priest belongs to the last category. He is getting some kind of an orgasmic pleasure while saying such things to a crowd.
 
  I am a Christian who believes in the Bible but I have never felt that a girl who wears what she is comfortable in is committing a sin. The Ten Commandments say that thou shall not commit adultery, even by word, thought or look. So why blame the women for what is happening around. I think training should be given to people who head such religious organisations instead of blaming the new generation. They are the ones who are spreading such venomous thoughts unnecessarily. They are in effect moral police under the guise of religious leaders and they should be taught how to look at the world with an open mind and a positive attitude.
 
