KOLKATA: The  's   against   on Sunday looms large but that will have to wait as   have an unfinished job on hand. The green and maroons will look to overcome the challenge of   in  's second-leg match in the   when the two sides meet at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium on Tuesday evening. 

 Bagan, having won the first leg 2-1in Colombo -with two away goals to boot -will hope to seal their place in the playoff stage without any hiccup. Bagan's cause should be helped by the misfortune of the visiting team which will have play with just one foreigner as their Nigerian duo -defender Nasiru Opeyemi and striker Afeez Olayemi Olofin -have not got their visas. Colombo FC will have to make do with their Ivory Coast midfielder Seka Jean Yapo, who is expected to arrive in the city on Tuesday morning.
 
 It is a big blow for Colombo FC coach Roomy Hassan who will have to make alternate plans. The visitors will especially miss Olofin, who not only scored in the first leg but also posed a constant threat to the Bagan backline.
 
 “It is a must-win situation for us and we hope to be attacking. The foreigners will be missed but we have to make do with what we have. We gave a good fight in the first leg and we are better prepared for this match,“ said Roomy , who had played against Bagan in Kolkata in the Asian Club Cup for Ratnam Club in 1994.
 
 Bagan coach Sanjoy Sen will have to do without Kean Lewis, who picked up an injury after scoring the opening goal in Colombo, while defender Eduardo Ferreira is also unlikely to be included in the 18-man squad, raising doubts whether he will be fit in time for Sunday's derby . Sen, however, promised to field a full-strength side with Haitian playmaker Sony Norde, who missed the Colombo game as well as the Aizawl FC clash on Saturday owing to injury , set to rejoin the action. It is not clear whether Sony will start or come on as a substitute. “It is a regret that we couldn't go further in the AFC Cup last season. We have to forget that we are ahead. We will think about the derby after this match. This clash is more difficult than the derby as we know more about the East Bengal team than our Sri Lankan opponents,“ said Sen.
 
 
