Nagpur: Bringing Nagpur Metro Rail a step closer to the reality, the at grade (ground-level) section testing of the project will start from October 15. A team of Research Design and Standards Organization ( ), Lucknow, will carry out the testing, which will go on for a month.

 A source in Mahametro said RDSO would send its testing report to the Railway Board. “Once the board clears the project, commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS), Mumbai, will conduct its own testing. When it gives a green signal, we will be allowed to start commercial operations,” he added.
 
 An officer of the RDSO had done a general inspection of Nagpur Metro about three weeks ago. He had expressed satisfaction over various aspects of the project.
 
 Meanwhile, Nagpur Metro has got all the seven mandatory clearances from the RDSO and Railway Board. It had got five of them in August and the ones pertaining to track and electrical traction were obtained recently. “We have got clearances from the RDSO in record time,” the source said.
 
 The formal trial run of Nagpur Metro will be held at 12 noon on September 30. Chief minister Devendra   and Union transport minister   will flag off three Metro coaches. The train will run from Mihan depot to Airport South station, a distance of 5.4 km.
 
 The train will start at a speed of 10km/ hour and will attain a maximum speed of 22 km per hour. “Although, the system is designed to handle a speed of 80 km per hour, we will run the train at a very slow speed in the absence of clearance from RDSO and CMRS,” he said.
 
 On the time the train will take to reach Airport South from Mihan depot, the official said it would be known on the day of the trial run. “We have plied the train on the route but the time will depend on the speed at which the trial is conducted,” he said.
 
 Mahametro has invited deaf and dumb children and orphans for the trial run function. They will be ferried from their institutions to the function site by the agency.
 
 Other than Fadnavis and Gadkari, Arundhati Bhattacharya, chairwoman cum managing director of State Bank of India (SBI), will also attend the function. She will release the Mahacard, a common mobility card for Metro Rail, feeder bus service and Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s city bus service. It can also be used for paying NMC’s parking fee and shopping at certain malls.
 
