BENGALURU: A 35-member police team on Tuesday morning searched the south Bengaluru residence of Agni Sridhar, underworld don-turned-social activist, on a tip-off that two men who allegedly masterminded the recent attempt on the life of APMC president   were hiding there.

 Armed with a search warrant obtained on Monday from a magistrate court, the policemen knocked on Sridhar’s doors at the crack of dawn. According to sources, the suspects fled before the police arrived. Police also raided the residence of an associate of Sridhar. At the end of the day-long searches, police recovered four unlicensed revolvers, live bullets, machetes, knives, ganja, Rs 6.68 lakh in cash and 418 grams of gold, a press note said.
 
 Seven men were arrested, and Sridhar, who was named among the accused, was shifted to a private hospital on Bannerghatta Road after he complained of chest pain during interrogation. A senior police officer said they would arrest Sridhar after he is discharged from the hospital.
 
 Sunil alia Silent Sunil and KS Rohith alias Onte, the two suspects in the Srinivas shooting case, were later detained near the hospital.
 
 “We raided the house in KS Layout around 6.25am and Sridhar, who was asleep, shouted at us, asking us if we had a warrant to question him or search his house. A senior officer showed him the warrant,” police sources added.
 
 The arrested associates of Agni Sridhar are Syed Aman alias Ahamaddulla Sharif alias Bachchan, 54, a resident of Kumarswamy Layout and the right hand of Sridhar, Braj Bhushan Hussain Pande, 38, Ramkumar Ray, 37, Sabir Bhagelu, 51, all from Uttar Pradesh, Tanvir Jabbar, 34, of Cauverynagar, L Arun Kumar, 24, of Ramanagara, A Varun Kumar, 46 of Kumaraswamy Layout.
 
 Bachchan said the men from Uttar Pradesh were bodyguards. “They did not have weapon licences nor are they employees of any recognized security agency. So we arrested them under Private Security Regulation Authority Act,” police said.
 
 Additional commissioner of police, east, Hemanth Nimbalkar said they carried out the search based on a tip that the two men who shot at Kadabagere Sridhar’s house were hiding in Agni Sridhar’s house. “More details will come out during further investigation,” he said.
 
 Who is Agni Sridhar?
 
 Agni Sridhar was a prominent name in the Bengaluru underworld during late 1970s and 1980s. He later claimed to have reformed and began editing a Kannada tabloid, Agni. He appeared with activists, speaking out against mining and corruption and espousing farmers’ causes. He was involved in the production of Kannada film Aa Dinagalu, a love story set against Bengaluru’s underworld.
 
 
