THRISSUR: The strains in relations between CPM and CPI, the two major partners of the ruling combine in Kerala, intensified further on Monday, with the CPM central committee member and former Minister   unleashing a scathing attack on CPI.

 Jayarajan said   in Kerala were pretending that they were intellectuals, but reality they had no significant strength in the state and was only a party surviving on the strength of others.
 
 Interestingly, the CPM leader’s outbursts were in response to an article published on Monday by the CPI organ `Janayugam’, strongly criticising the chief minister   and Education Minister Prof. C Raveendranath, for their alleged anti-students’ stance in the ongoing agitation at the Law Academy in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 The article had attacked Vijayan for rejecting an enquiry into the alleged irregularities in the land allocation to the Law Academy and Prof Raveendranath for his alleged pro-management stance during the conciliation talks convened by him to end the agitation at the Academy.
 
 Jayarajan alleged that the CPI organ had degenerated to the level of a puppet in the hands of those trying to decimate the Left forces for narrow interests. ``The people are recognizing the true nature of the agitation being spearheaded by CPI in collaboration with the RSS and Congress,’’ the CPM leader claimed.
 
 The CPM leader criticized the decision of the Revenue Minister and CPI leader E Chandrasekharan Nair to order enquiry into the alleged land grab by the Law Academy management. This is an issue involving various government departments like revenue department, Law department and Education department, and revenue minister cannot unilaterally order a probe into such an issue, Jayarajan argued. 
 
 Curiously, the revenue minister had ordered a probe in the land deal after the veteran CPM leader and chairman of the state administrative reforms commission V S Achuthanandan had submitted a memorandum demanding a probe into the issue.
 
 Jayarajan, who had stepped down as Industries Minister couple of months earlier following charges of illegal appointments of relatives to government jobs, alleged that it was the internal schism in the CPI that was leading to the attack of the CPI leaders against the LDF government. The CPM leader appealed the CPI national leaders to intervene and restrain the CPI state leadership to dissociate from the public criticisms against the LDF government.
 
