New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday put under scrutiny professional coaching institutes allegedly operating from  .

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Navin Chawla directed the north Delhi corporation and other agencies to do a head count of the number of such centres operating in north Delhi’s university area.
 
  also sought details of the number of students who visit these centres, number of batches operated by them in a day and the traffic volume in this area due to cars and other vehicles.
 
 The court also made it clear to the north corporation that it should enforce construction bylaws so that there are no commercial operations in residential areas.
 
 HC was hearing a PIL plea alleging that such centres are illegal and also pose a threat to women safety.
 
 The court had earlier issued notice to various government agencies on the petition which alleged that the   for competitive examinations were running in Mukherjee Nagar in north Delhi in collusion and connivance of the authorities.
 
 The petition filed by Delhi resident Sanjay Singhal, a chartered accountant, also alleged that the institutes were operating from residential premises and such “illegal and unlawful” activities have created hindrances for the public.
 
 It claimed that commercial activities there have given full chance to hooligans for committing acts of sexual assault on women living in the area and threatening their lives.
 
 These centres cause traffic jams on the road and the multi-storeyed buildings put a strain on the water and electricity supply systems, the plea said. It sought court’s direction to the authorities to disconnect these facilities.
 
 The plea alleged that municipal authority has failed to act against such violators despite the high court’s earlier order to look into the issue and take proper measures.
 
 It alleged that the authorities have given a free hand to the inhabitants of the area to convert the residential area into a commercial one and sought the court’s direction to the government to cancel the lease deeds and conveyance deeds of the premises where such professional institutes were operating in Mukherjee Nagar, Outram Lane and Kingsway Camp areas.
 
 
