LUCKNOW: An undergraduate showed exemplary courage, jumping into the Gomti to rescue a youth who had plunged to commit suicide near Gomti Riverfront on Tuesday afternoon. While a huge crowd gathered and was busy shooting pictures and videos on their phones, Abhinav Singh took off his sweatshirt and jumped into the river and pulled the drowning man to safety.

 According to police, Rohit Upadhyay (25) of Sanjay Gandhipuram jobless MBA left home in the afternoon and reached the riverfront around 4pm. He stopped at the banks of the river and jumped into it even as passersby simply watched. Abhinav Singh of Balaganj in Thakurganj saw the crowd and on coming to know that a youth had jumped into the river, he jumped in too and rescued Rohit from drowning.
 
 A police team of constable Mukhtar, Manish and Ram Shanker (all of UP dial 100) reached the scene and helped Abhinav in taking Rohit out. Rohit was unconscious and was later rushed to   where his condition improved by evening.
 
 Police spokesman, Amber Singh said police loacted Rohit’s address and contacted his parents. “His parents are at the hospital with Rohit who is out of danger now,” he told. Police said after he failed successively in competitive exams, Rohit was attending to a small shop the family had in   of Gomtinagar.
 
 The incident caused traffic jam on Gandhi Setu as curious commuters stopped by.
 
 Bravery, courage come with passion, says Abhinav
 
 Pursuing B.PEd (I) from Aryavarta College associated with  , the Good   told ToI that he and his three friends had gone to Gomtinagar when they heard about the incident and reached there. “I came to know somebody had jumped into the river and though there was a huge crowd, nobody could help. I took off my shirt and jump into the river immediately to save the life. I pulled the drowning youth to the banks of the river and later a boat reached the scene,” he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, he said, “Bravery and courage come with passion. I have been a swimmer since class VI at HAL School in Amethi where my father is an engineer. I was confident of saving him, as Gomti is not too deep or have strong current.” He added that the spot has no provisions like life-jackets and life-boats.
 
 Ajay Kumar | TNN
 
 
