Bhopal: In a major breakthrough, the district administration in Guna has confiscated - three underwater machines – which locals call ‘deshi pandubis’ (submarines) – being used for illegal  .

 Raid was carried out by additional district magistrate (ADM) Niaz Ahmad Khan on Saturday morning. “We have destroyed those underwater machines on the spot while two heavy vehicles including a JCB have been confiscated,” Khan told TOI.
 
 Action would be initiated under provisions of the Mining Act against the accused. Action was taken near Sindh river at Shyampur village—30 km from the district headquarters. Accused fled the spot as the team began confiscating the machines.
 
 Khan said the use of underwater machines for illegal sand mining have become a disturbing trend in the region. “These underwater machines are being purchased from Kanpur district of   at Rs 5 lakh each. They have become popular among sand mafias for the last two years. “We have destroyed 30 such pandubis in the last one year,” said the officer.
 
 A few months ago, officials of the Bhind district had confiscated three ‘submarines’ on banks of Sindh river in Gohad where illegal sand mining is a major source of income for local residents. The seizure was part of a follow-up action by the law enforcers after the killing of a 23-year-old farmer, Ingej Kushwaha, who had protested against illegal sand mining in Gohad’s   area.
 
 Besides three submarines, the officials have also impounded five excavators from the spot. These machines were being used to dig out sand from the river banks. Many other sand miners in the Chambal region are using these underwater machines for digging out sand from the bottom of the river. Officials believe many such ‘submarines’ are operating on Chambal and Sindh River banks.
 
 It was in 2014, that the Chambal range police had unearthed an illegal underground mining unit at Sindhi river of Datia district in the Chambal region for the first time. The police team, led by the then inspector general D C Sagar, had seized three boats laden with heavy mining equipment, including diesel suction pumps and a large quantity of illegally mined sand from the spot.
 
 “The   government has not set clear guidelines on the use of suction pumps for legal mining too. “It is important to ban suction pumps because it can extract sand from the river bed with minimum effort,” said a senior lawyer seeking CBI inquiry to expose the mining syndicate in Chambal region.
 
 MP government has launched a state-wide action on illegal sand mining. Almost all districts have taken action except Hoshangabad and Sehore- region more notorious for illegal mining at Narmada river bed. A former BJP minister   has raised ‘Kamal Sena’ that has been raiding illegal mines for the last one week.
 
 
