PUNE: The outsiders' free access to the   (CoEP) campus via its boating club on the   is the key cause of chaos on its campus.
Students said there have been cases when residents of settlements along the river banks have entered the college and created nuisance during college festivals.
 
 While the security personnel are vigilant,miscreants sneak in from vulnerable locations from the boating club's entry points.
 
 CoEP is the only engineering college in India to have its own boating club. It presently has about 100 trainees and racing boats that are used for competitions, besides regular practice.
 
 Akshay Mane, who was among the organizing committee of the college festival Impressions last year, said, “The boating club is one of the most vulnerable spots on campus and people from the settlements find easy access to the college. De spite the presence of security guards on the river banks, there are some ends from where outsiders sneak in. Particularly during festivals, they enter the campus and create mischief so we have to be cautious.“
 
 The boating club is also a favoured spot among most students of the college since it offers a majestic view of the Mula river as well as a serene ambience.  , final year Metullurgy students of the college and secretary of the boating club said, “In the past, we have written to the nearby police station whenever miscreants, especially from the   slum, have created nui sance on campus. The police have also taken cognisance of the letters. The women, who practice boating for the Regatta competition, often face issues of eve teasing. We practice in the morning and evening and try to end our evening session before it gets dark.“
 
 On condition of anonymi ty, a girl student said, “Throughout the day , there are students and staff around and several activities take place here so it is not much of an issue. However, once it gets dark, female students avoid going to the club.“
 
 Another student added that festivals are the worst time to control troublemakers.
 
 “We cannot differentiate between students and outsiders during festivals. We have complained and action was initiated but that side of the campus is vulnerable and students feel there should be a proper check on people, who enter the campus.“
 
