KOLKATA: The   ( ) is expected to have some good news in its  . When mayor Sovan Chatterjee presents the budget on Saturday, he is unlikely to increase   and other fees — like   or  . Secondly, a concerted effort to augment water supply and turn the city cleaner is likely to make life easier for the tax-payers.

 According to sources, KMC is likely take up the water supply project from where it left off in last year’s budget. Under the augmentation scheme, the KMC water supply department will supply an additional 50 million gallon filtered water daily. It will be possible as the much-awaited Garden Reach treatment plant is nearing completion. The civic body will now need to lay pipes to connect the plant to Behala, Joka, Tollygunge and Jadavpur. It will also provide filtered water to Kalighat, Bhowanipore, Hazra and Kidderpore. According to a survey, 30% residents of these areas still depend on ground water.
 
 There is also some good news for people living in housing complexes off EM Bypass. The KMC water supply department is ready to provide additional filtered water supply as per their daily needs. However, this supply will come at a price. “Supplying additional water to housing complexes is not a problem. But the residents have to install meters for that,” said a KMC water supply department official. An Rs 80-crore makeover of the century-old Tallah water reservoir will also help KMC to maintain uninterrupted supply.
 
 There will be additional thrust on turning Kolkata cleaner in Saturday’s budget. The confidence stems from a Rs 150-crore waste collection and disposal project, which KMC officials claim would change the face of Kolkata. “We will install more than 30 garbage compactor stations in some congested residential and commercial areasm,” said a KMC solid waste department official. 
 
 However, the official conceded that disposal of garbage will continue to be a major problem. “We are in the midst of a major garbage overhaul project. But, we still lack a proper dumping ground as Dhapa has outlived its utility,” a KMC official said. 
 
 KMC is also likely to undertake a major drainage upgrade project in Behala, Joka, Jadavpur and EM Bypass. “Under the Kolkata Environment Improvement Project, we will undertake overhaul of drainage systems in areas that suffer large-scale flooding every monsoon,” said a KMC drainage department official.
 
 However, the civic body will face the toughest challenge in renovating old, dilapidated buildings. Currently, there are 3,000 such buildings. Though KMC is about to announce in its budgeta revamp plan for these buildings, sources maintain that there is hardly any possibility that the owners of these buildings would opt for a revamp.
 
 
