BHUBANESWAR: Fondly known as "Chanakya of Odisha politics", former   member  , died at a   in Mumbai on Sunday.

 He was 77. 
 
 He is survived by two sons and two daughters. His body will be flown in to Bhubaneswar on Monday, family sources said.
 
 The bureaucrat-turned politician was ill for past some months and had undergone a lungs surgery for a tumour in March last year.
 
 Family sources said Mohapatra had contracted infection two months ago. For past around a week, his condition had turned critical as the infection spread to his brain. He was on ventilator support. 
 
 Born in a modest family in Talcher, Mohapatra was deeply associated with Biju Patnaik as his principal secretary when the latter was CM (1990-1995). Post-Biju era, Mohapatra became a mentor and adviser of chief minister  . The former IAS officer was the master strategist of the regional party ever since it was formed in 1997 till 2012 when Naveen sacked him from the party after accusing him of planning to stage a coup to dislodge him. 
 
 BJD insiders credit Mohapatra to be the brain behind many crucial key BJD decisions such as denial of a party ticket to Bijoy Mohapatra, a founder leader of the regional party in 2000 assembly election who was perceived a challenge to Naveen.
 
 Mohapatra also was the brain behind the BJD decision to sever ties with the BJP in the run up to the 2009 simultaneous Lok Sabha and assembly elections. His strategy worked as BJD swept the poll then, raising his stature in the party. He was considered second only to Naveen.
 
 BJD ministers, MLAs and senior bureaucrats used to make a beeline at his Saheednagar residence. 
 
 Political leaders across party-lines remembered him as an able administrator with a strong political acumen. “He will always be remembered for his understanding of the history and geography of Odisha and the psyche of people of the state so well. He is among the most abled administrator in the state’s history after independence,” said BJD Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he had deeply influenced contemporary Odisha politics. “He had proved his mettle as an administrator,” Pradhan said.
 
 Leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra described him as someone with a deep understanding of Odihsa polity and society.
 
