MUMBAI: Days before his retirement in March this year, former vice-president of the Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) Sambhaji   pronounced that a layout recreation ground (RG) in Juhu-Vile Parle Development Scheme was not a green space. Within two days,   even signed a lease agreement for development of the plot as a residential complex.

 This was not the only layout   Mhada had opened for development. Another plot, also in JVPD, had been leased for development in 2015.
 
 On Wednesday, the Bombay high court, while hearing two separate writ petitions which it clubbed together, quashed the March 21, 2017 order of Zende-Patil and the 2015 lease agreement of Mhada, terming them an “illegality” and “parting away with a gold mine giving enormous benefit to private parties without the public exchequer getting slightest benefit would come within the ambit of irrationality”. The VP’s order, it said, suffers on the ground of “procedural impropriety and is totally against public interest”.
 
 The division bench of Justices B R Gavai and Riyaz Chagla has directed the BMC to take a decision on the proposal submitted by Zende-Patil’s predecessor to reserve the two open spaces as layout RGs within six weeks of the order.
 
 The judgment comes as a boost for protecting open spaces. Commending the proactive stance taken by the Save Open Spaces group and other activists, the bench said, “As it is the cities are having very less number of open spaces which are lungs of the city. We have no hesitation to hold that an attempt to destroy the open spaces meant for garden with ulterior motive would be violative of the doctrine of public trust.”
 
 The matter refers to two layout RGs, one on plot no. 6 on 9th Wireless Road, JVPD, and the other on plot no. 3 on North-South, 10th Road. While the first is spread over 22,500 sq ft, the second is spread over 15,129 sq ft. The two open spaces barely amount to 10% of total area of the two layouts. BMC’s Development Control Regulations 1967 and 1991 mandate that for an area more than 27,000 sq ft, the open space must be 15% of plot area.
 
 The two layouts comprise 13 and 19 housing societies respectively, with one sub-plot in each layout reserved as open space. In 1967, the two   were given to the Anjuman-e-Shiate Ali, a trust of the Bohra community. The trust had acted as an agent to hand over the plots to 57 individuals and two co-operative societies for housing low-income members of the community.
 
 However, in 1999, Mhada submitted a revised plan of the JVPD scheme to BMC for updation, showing no reservations on these two plots. BMC approved the plan with conditions.
 
 The trust first approached Mhada, saying the open space on plot no 6 was not an open space and it should be allowed to develop it. Residents approached Mhada against any such move. In 2009, Gautam Chatterjee, then VP, Mhada, upheld the residents’ plea.
 
 It was around this time that the state government, independent of Mhada, had allotted the open space on plot no. 6 to Parasmani Society for development. This was challenged by the trust and the government cancelled the allotment to Parasmani and allotted the plot to the trust. Parasmani moved court.
 
 Mhada then invited the two to sign consent terms and develop the property. This was challenged by local residents. The court stayed the agreement and directed residents to file a fresh petition.
 
 The residents approached Mhada when Satish Gavai was VP; he directed the chief officer, Mumbai Board, to conduct a hearing. The chief officer N K Sudanshu in a reasoned order upheld the residents’ claim. Mhada also wrote to BMC in 2015 to correct the layout plan and mark the open spaces.
 
 In January 2015, when Zende-Patil took over as VP, the trust again approached Mhada with its plea to allow development of both plots.
 
 The   observed that the Mhada VP had completely lost sight of the doctrine of public trust.
 
 “As an officer of the MHADA, Respondent No. 2 was expected to act in a manner, which would have protected the rights of MHADA or the public at large, rather than showing the magnanimity of handing over such a precious piece of land to Anjuman Trust or its trustee, without state government or the MHADA getting a single rupee benefit.”
 
 The court said it is only on account of the petitioners knocking the doors of the court at the right time and on account of the orders passed by this court that the space reserved for garden in the sanctioned layout could be saved. “If the petitioners had not approached the court at the right juncture, the land-grabbers would have been successful in their design of converting scarce open piece meant for garden into a residential complex for commercial exploitation,” reads the order.
 
 The judges have observed that the Mhada VP/CEO has arrogated upon itself the jurisdiction to decide the issue with regard to the title, which are exclusively within the jurisdiction of a competent civil court.
 
 Another ground on which the VP’s order deserves to be set aside, it said, is that the matter was heard in October 2016 while the order was delivered on March 21, 2017 after almost six months. The judges observed that SC has laid down that even high courts are required to decide a matter within three months.The court has quashed the lease deed executed by Mhada in favour of Juhuraj Co-operative Society and Juhu Lifestyle Co-operative society. It has imposed a total cost of Rs 10 lakh—Rs 4 lakh on the trust, Rs one lakh each on Mhada and Zende-Patil, and Rs 2 lakh each on Juhuraj Co-operative Society and Juhu Lifestyle Co-operative housing society. This is to be paid within two weeks to the State Legal Services Authority as petitioners said they wanted to donate it.
 
 The cost to be paid by Mhada is to be recovered from “the person found to be responsible for the actions which we have held to be illegal”, states the order.
 
 
