GOA: Just below the water surface near Grande Island, opposite Dabolim airport, a carpet of trash stretches in every direction. Up on the little beach, and spread all around its picturesque vistas, the situation is even worse. A fortnight ago, I joined a group of licensed divers and volunteers from the Goa-based NGO, Coastal Impact, for a clean-up of this ostensibly idyllic spot.

 The experience was a deeply disturbing eye-opener. Tour operators who picnic on the island have left massive amounts of garbage. Underwater, we picked up bottles hand over fist like previous generations must have collected mussels. In just a couple of hours of work, the team amassed 45 large jute bags filled with glass and plastic, and transferred them to the mainland for recycling.
 
 A few days later, I did some time-honoured evening rambling with my sons through beloved Bardez fieldscapes we’ve returned to constantly ever since they were able to walk. Some things have not changed: dappled sunlight fading golden over the hills, flocks of egrets winging overhead to roost. But then again, shock, horror and rude awakening. The quaint narrow paths through rice paddies from   across to Saligao have become lined with glass and plastic, beer cans and snack food detritus. Just recently pristine terrain, but now we had to step carefully because innumerable bottles lay smashed along the route. On the way out, there was a tourist taxi parked incongruously right down on the fields, surrounded by men hoisting cans of beer. On the way back, no car or men, but the cans remained.
 
 Shift the focus to Miramar, where we walk most evenings until crimson flashes low on the horizon. Here, the Captain of Ports irresponsibly granted permission for ultra-low budget tour boats to ply right off the beach, without any provisions for oversight, appropriate infrastructure, or enforcement of any rules. Chaos and filth has resulted. The stand of casuarina trees leading from   circle to the tour boats is strewn throughout with mounds of trash. Vendors sit bus-station style on the sands. Hordes of domestic tourists trample through the vegetation, toss garbage at their feet, and line up to urinate directly onto the sands. The beloved   landmark has never been so abused, so abandoned.
 
 These are snapshots of personal experiences, but the bottom line is universal and inescapable. Golden Goa is now Garbage Goa. Every successive government swears this issue is highest priority, and then the situation becomes worse. On September 14, 2014, then-chief minister   trumpeted his new “clean Goa, beautiful Goa” campaign, declaring “all beaches will be garbage-free within a year. By December 19 this year, almost 90-95% of the garbage will disappear from the beaches.” Nothing happened, the beaches only became filthier. Today, every roadside is festooned with signboards for “Swachh Bharat, Nitol Goem”, and again-chief minister Manohar Parrikar promises the state will be garbage-free by 2020, “you will see results in six months.” Don’t hold your breath.
 
 Everyone understands garbage is a thorny problem that cannot be easily resolved, anywhere in the world. What cannot be forgiven is nonsense promises made in the knowledge they will be broken, and denial that the problem exists in the first place. This is Goa, where the administration is much more interested in beating its chest over the multi-crore waste management plant in Saligao (which steadily pollutes the water resources downhill), than addressing the shameful fact of piles of garbage lining the roads leading to and from the facility. 
 
 Millions of further dollars are committed for more advanced technologies to deal with trash, while the required political will and comparatively small sums of rupees are absent to actually go pick it up. Like most else gone awry in Goa, this is gross mismanagement.
 
 A few easy steps would dramatically reduce the scale of Garbage Goa’s problems, but they require political will and vision. Bottles and cans should carry a ten rupee redeemable deposit. Just like Sikkim, Goa must ban disposable thermocol and styrofoam, and greatly restrict the sale and use of PET and plastic. For the next couple of years, every major beach in Goa should have small teams of camera-equipped “Green Police” to record, identify, and fine anyone who does not use clearly signposted waste facilities. Everywhere in the state, illegal dumping can be deterred by judicious use of surveillance cameras and strict enforcement, including stiff fines. 
 
 Any government that applies these measures would guarantee the lasting gratitude of the electorate. And then just maybe we can talk about Golden Goa again.
 
 The writer is a photographer and a widely published author and . The views expressed are his own.
 
