CHENNAI: Did the government wait for more cyclones to cross Tamil Nadu coast to announce the state drought-hit? According to experts, the government was banking on cyclones to bring more rain to southern and central districts before it sent out ministerial teams to assess the situation and announce relief.

 Independent experts say relief has not only come late, but it is insufficient to compensate farmers. They say the study conducted by the government is not scientific and Nagapattinam alone should get a special relief package as the agriculture fields are saline.
 
 “The Centre has modified several parameters under the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) to announce a state drought-hit. The parameters include collating NASA data and our satellite data on the rain-deficient areas. The NDRF also says only if there is 30% crop loss, drought relief can be announced,”   vice-chancellor   told TOI. Ramasamy was a member of the official team that assessed the drought-hit areas.
 
 The government also banked on three cyclones which were to cross the Tamil Nadu coast but changed direction. “We thought the cyclones will wash away the drought situation in the delta and other districts but that did not happen. Only after this, we started assessing the fields for the moisture stress. The crop period extends up to March and therefore the announcement made by the chief minister is not late,” said Ramasamy.
 
 But other differ. “The Meteorological department at the start of the month said there is a 62% rainfall deficit. The survey must have been undertaken immediately so that all areas could have been covered and the exact loss suffered would have been assessed,” said water expert from   S  .
 
 The relief declared too is not enough. For instance, cultivating of an acre of paddy costs Rs 25,000 and the relief announced is one-fifth. “But the compensation of Rs 5,000 per acre of paddy is nowhere near the cost of cultivation. Assessment of the fields was done only in parts of the delta districts. Nagapattinam alone must have been declared worst hit as all fields in the district have turned saline due to ingress of sea water,” said Janagarajan.
 
 Also, the government did not take consider the health of the farmers and their families, he said. “Many farmers in the delta are deficient in nutrients. The team must have talked to them. Only then a real assessment could have been done,” Janagarajan said.
 
 Experts say there must have been more transparency in the methodology adopted in assessing crop damage. “The timing of announcement of relief cannot be questioned as rain was expected even till the last week. But the compensation of Rs 5,000 may not be sufficient and only with a scientific assessment of the damage, the exact compensation can be announced,” said an agriculture expert from M S Swaminathan Research Foundation.
 
 
