Bhopal: Here’s a race where the one who came second won. Won a lot of hearts.

 As the finalists of the 200m race at the state athletics championship were raring to take off from the starting line on Tuesday, Ayush from Guna was under tremendous pressure from his father — win or quit running. The only hurdle was his friend and last year’s gold medallist Haroon Hussain, who had on Monday defeated him in the 100m race to clinch gold. The gun went off. The sprinters pumped their hearts out in 20 seconds of lungs-bursting run. Haroon was in the lead. And in the last split second, Ayush sprinted ahead and breasted the tape.
 
 Haroon had dropped back to let Ayush win.
 
 No one noticed it but for Haroon’s coach — who was hopping mad — and this correspondent who was at the finishing line and saw Haroon slacken off. When TOI asked Haroon, he admitted that he slowed down to let Ayush win. “I wanted him to win the gold, because if he had come even second, his father would have ‘disqualified’ him from athletics, once and for all. I can win another race, but Ayush would have lost it all,” said the SAI sprinter, trying to catch his breath at the BHEL sports complex on Tuesday.
 
 Ayush’s father, who was present on the ground, said he couldn’t sleep the whole night after his son came second in the 100m race on Monday. “It was a tough night for me. I came here just to see my son win gold, since anything below best is not acceptable to me,” said Ayush’s father, adding: “I would have taken him back to Guna if he had not won gold in 200m.” He was not aware about Haroon’s generosity. 
 
 Ayush said, “I was focusing on winning gold and I am happy that I have done it.” Haroon said, “Ayush is an excellent athlete. I have already won gold in 100m. I did not want him to be embarrassed in front of his father. It is good to see that he and his family are happy after the race.”
 
 About the loss of gold, Haroon said, “Even by winning silver in 200m, I have qualified for the national meet. It would have made no difference to me if I had won gold. At least, I could make someone’s father happy.” 
 
 Haroon, however, made it clear that he would have never done such a thing for any other team member. “I and Ayush will represent Madhya Pradesh in the national meet. It was about representing the same Bhopal division team. I would have never done it for any other team member,” he said. 
 
 The officials present on the ground were surprised when they realized what Haroon had done. “It is amazing that in today’s world, where there is so much competition, there are a few people who can do such a thing for a friend. I am overwhelmed,” said organizing committee member Joyson. 
 
 
