CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking directions to implead   as respondent in the petition related to leakage of preliminary examination for the recruitment of judicial officers in Haryana.

 “A prayer made in the present application is for impleading the CBI as a respondent. 
 
 As FIR for the alleged offence has been registered at Chandigarh and a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the matter, hence, at this stage we do not find any reason to implead CBI as a party to the present petition,” observed a full bench of the high court while dismissing the plea.
 
 The petitioner in the case, Suman of   in   district, had earlier moved an application before the HC to implead CBI as party so that the matter was probed by a premier agency.
 
 Meanwhile, during the hearing in the case on Tuesday, senior advocate and public prosecutor R S Rai informed the high court that an FIR in the case shall be registered on Tuesday itself and a copy thereof shall be placed on record before the next date of hearing.
 
 After hearing this, the court has adjourned the matter for October 10.
 
 The matter had reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Suman seeking registration of a criminal case to unearth the scam involving leakage of examination papers of prestigious services.
 
  She had produced an audio recording of some candidates claiming that most of the seats had already been sold out for Rs 1.5 crore and selection of candidates has already been done. She had specifically named two woman candidates,   and  , alleging them to be involved in the scam.
 
 Later, the court had found that Sunita (general category) and Sushila (reserved category) were had topped the examination with exceptionally high marks in their respective categories.
 
 An internal probe conducted by the HC has already found registrar (recruitment) Balwinder Kumar Sharma responsible for leaking the paper to Sunita. The probe committee had also recommended registration of an FIR in the case. The HC on Friday had recommended Sharma’s suspension.
 
