GURUGRAM: Entries and exits to  , Gurugram’s food street that is also known for its microbreweries, have been changed to increase motorable distance from  , giving fresh hope to   and eateries whose business has dried up.

 Traffic was reorganised in the area by Huda late on Monday, hours before the excise department conducted measurements to determine the fate of   and other top tier hotels located along NH-8.
 
 Measurements were done in Sector 29 on April 1. Since then, 11 bars and eateries there, among them big names like Warehouse Café and Adda by Striker, have shut shop while six others, including Prankster, have closed their bars. The reworked traffic routes paves the way for these establishments to apply afresh for exemption.
 
 For traffic moving in from NH-8 into the road going towards Huda City Centre, the left turn into Sector 29 after Crowne Plaza has been closed. Instead, motorists have to take a left turn 750 metres ahead, after Gymkhana Club, to enter Sector 29. The exit, likewise, has been reworked, with vehicles directed to   and a left turn back towards Gymkhana Club before taking a U-turn towards the highway. This easily take4s motorable distance to a kilometre or more.
 
 “The actual entry route as per the approved plans is from the Kingdom of Dream side, which opens into the market near Lemon Tree hotel. Even the authorised parking entry is from the same side,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Yadav added the department had been planning to make these changes for a while, and recently, a bunch of restaurant and pub owners from Sector 29 approached him to expedite the process.
 
 According to Yadav, the road between Lemon Tree hotel and Swagath hotel is also set to become a one-way road to reduce chaos. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner for east Gurgaon, who was in charge of measurements in the area, said though she had heard about the route changes she had not yet received any official communication.
 
 “As of now, we are going by the initial measurements conducted, and consequently, all licences still stand cancelled. If the outlet owners wish for a re-measurement, they need to submit a representation to the district-level committee,” said Singh.
 
 Restaurants, pub and the hotel owners confirmed they had indeed approached Huda for a route change. 
 
 “The original entry route as per the approved layout plan is the one functional now. We had been pushing for opening of this route for long,” said Ashwani Chaudhary, owner of two outlets in Sector 29, including Adda by Striker and The Walking Street.
 
 
