MUMBAI: Bowling with good pace and firing in yorkers at will, 23-year-old Jasprit Bumrah played the role of the strike bowler for his team to perfection as the   bagged their third   title, finishing as the champs' top wicket-taker with 20 scalps in 16 games@22.00, and an economy rate of 7.41. 

 On Sunday night, Bumrah picked the key wickets of Rahul Tripathi and MS Dhoni to derail the RPS innings as they fell just one run short of MI's 129. Can he deliver a similar performance in England, where the conditions are likely to be seamer-friendly , during the  ? Former New Zealand pacer Shane Bond certainly seems to think so. At a presser here on Monday, the Mumbai Indians bowling coach, when quizzed about whether he offered any advice to `Boom' as the team has nicknamed him, about how to bowl in the English conditions during the tournament, went on to shower praise on the seamer.
 
 “He's got a skill set which is going to make him successful wherever he plays. It's his first 50-over tournament, so it'll be a little bit different for him. But the way the guy is bowling in IPL, if he carries this form through to the Champions Trophy , he will play a big role in India's success,“ complimented the Kiwi.
 
 Praising Bumrah further, Bond said: “It makes me look good when he bowls the way he does. He is probably the best one in our team to bowl the pressure overs because he has got the skills and the temperament to do so. When we looked at our bowling attack, we tried to balance it and put `parts' around him. Normally , you look at a team like ours and you say (Lasith) Malinga will naturally do the death bowling. “Harbhajan (Singh) has done that and we had to tweak our bowling attack, and make Bumrah bowl at the back end and start to use Malinga in the middle-overs and then we played a leg-spinner to give us an attacking option. When you start to base your attack around a bowler like Jasprit, that shows his quality .He'll definitely play Test cricket and can be a world-class bowler across all formats.“
 
 Bumrah's skipper at MI, and his senior India colleague, Rohit Sharma, though, chose to be more stingy in his praise for Bumrah, as he did not want to place the load of expectations on the youngster. “I don't want to say that he is the world's best T20 bowler because, right now, he is doing a great job. I would like him to continue to do well. When he sees all these things, it will only add pressure on him. He knows what his capabilities are. He has shown it throughout IPL. When he came to bowl the super over (against Gujarat Lions at Rajkot) to probably the best T20 batters in Aaron Finch and Brendon McCullum, he was defending (just) 11 runs. He's got all the abilities to be the No 1 bowler in the world, for sure,“ Rohit felt.
 
 
