J.K Rowling’s hand-written draft of the Sorting Hat’s song has been added to an exhibition of previously unseen artefacts from the   universe. 

  The collection of the exhibition, which will go on display at the   in London, marks the 20th anniversary of the series’ first book, 
 . 
 
  The Sorting Hat’s song was sung when Harry Potter arrived at   in his first year. In the book, the old, ragged Sorting Hat sings a song about itself and the Hogwarts houses before sorting first year students to their respective houses. The song begins like this: 
 
  "
 
  
 
  
 
  
 ” 
 
  According to  , J.K Rowling’s digital publishing company, one of the many never-seen-before artefacts to be displayed at the Harry Potter: A History of Magic exhibition, will be an early handwritten draft of Rowling’s Sorting Hat song. 
  
  
 
  The exhibition, Harry Potter: A History of Magic, promises to treat   to a range of original drafts and drawings by both Rowling and illustrator   for the first time. 
 
   , head curator at the British Library, said of the new addition, “It’s always so thrilling to see an author’s original draft in their own handwriting, and JK Rowling’s draft of the Sorting Hat song is no exception.
 
  “It’s integral to the Harry Potter stories, and it’s amazing to see how it was originally written and amended.
  “We hope this provides an exciting taster of what kind of material visitors can expect to see in our exhibition.” 
 
 
 
 
  The display, created in collaboration with   publishers, Rowling’s original Harry Potter publisher, will also feature ancient texts and objects about magical folklore from the British library’s archives that lent inspiration to the world-famous stories.
 
  Among them are a 15th century depiction of a potions class and the 16th-century Ripley Scroll that explains how to create a Philosopher’s Stone, as well as hand-coloured pictures of dragons, unicorns and a phoenix rising from the flames.
 
  Tickets for the exhibition, which opens on October 20 until February 28 next year, will be available online only from 12 noon on April 3. 
  
 
