LUCKNOW: After failing miserably in  , divisional commissioner has asked Lucknow Municipal Corporation to fast-track the   project.   has been limping so far to put the smart city project on track and has been asked to speed up the process and complete individual DPRs of various Smart City   before June 25, the anniversary of Smart City Mission. 

 SCM is Centre’s initiative to develop 100 cities of India into a modern urban ecosystem where a resident can aspire for standard infrastructure and services. Though Lucknow missed the slot in top 20 smart cities of India, it was able to secure first rank in fast-track round of 13 cities, putting it on all India 21st rank. Because of early selection, it had the advantage of getting Centre’s aid much before several other cities selected in subsequent rounds. 
 
 Though LMC has already received Rs 66.20 crore each from Centre and state government, it has not been able to use the funds because of slow pace of work and lack of coordination between various government departments. Ironically, cities that got selected much after Lucknow are in far more advanced stage of preparing detailed project reports and executing it on ground. Lucknow is still struggling to sync the plans of various government departments with Smart City project. 
 
 Soon after Union minister of urban development Venkaiah Naidu reviewed Lucknow's progress in various Central schemes on May 5, the divisional commissioner instructed LMC to gear up to ensure that DPRs related to Smart City project of departments like traffic police, Jal Sansthan, Jal Nigam, LDA, Lucknow Metro, City Transport are prepared and submitted with the consultant before the mission’s anniversary. 
 
 Additional municipal commissioner P K Srivastava said, “We have to begin development work in Kaiserbagh area under Smart City project this year and these include installation of solar panels, rain water harvesting projects, uninterrupted water supply and sewer connections to every house. We needs DPRs before June 25.” LMC has selected 813 acres land in and around Kaiserbagh for retro-fitting (revamping the old infrastructure).
 
 Traffic police has to submit its plan of integrated traffic management system to the LMC, while LDA has yet to provide maps of fish and vegetable mandi and underground parking of Kaiserbagh. Jal Nigam has to furnish details of total sewer infrastructure and water supply connections required in the project even as electricity department has to prepare a plan to shift transformers from roads and also lay cables underground. 
 
 
