NAGPUR: On Friday afternoon, members of   Sarva Samaj Vikas Sanstha, an organization of transgenders, came together to stage a dharna outside Meetha Neem Sharif Dargah, Civil Lines, in order to assert their right to worship. In presence of about 10 police personnel, over 60 members went inside the dargah through the main gate to offer a chadar and flowers to the tomb.

 “On coming outside the dargah, we were asked to come next time in either men’s clothes to enter through men’s gate or in women’s clothes to enter through women’s gates. But we have our own identity,” said Vidya Kamble, secretary of the Sanstha adding, “Several times in the past, we have been kept from entering this shrine. We have been insulted, misbehaved with, and verbally abused by the khadim. In Nagpur, kinnars still face discrimination. If dargahs in Ajmer’s Tarahgarh, Mumbai’s Haji Ali and Nagpur’s   can show us respect, what right does this dargah have to insult us?” The members have now decided to approach the court.
 
 Khadim of the Meetha Neem Dargah Nizamuddin Quadri initially said the members of the third gender did not go inside dargah. He said said they offered prayers from outside and went away. On being prodded further, he admitted members had come inside but only those wearing a pant-shirt were allowed and they offered flowers, not a chadar. “We never stopped anyone from entering the mosque, but they should choose the gate according to clothes they are wearing. In men’s clothes they should enter from main gate like all men, and in women’s clothes they should use women’s entrance to avoid confusion among other devotees, who get irritated at their sight. Kinnar samaj is doing this only to gain publicity,” Quadri said claiming the police supported the dargah in response to an application they sent to the police commissioner a few days back. 
 
 Police sources said the personnel were present at the scene only to preserve law and order and not to take anyone’s side and confirmed that the members indeed went inside and offered a chadar. No untoward incident was reported and the act happened peacefully. 
 
 On the issue of discrimination and the right of the third gender to be allowed inside the dargah, psychologist and faculty at Tirpude College Swati   said, “It is unfortunate to see this gender bias and offensive that a creation of God is not allowed to enter a place of worship. They have their own self-respect and dignity, which ought to be protected. I would request the members of the dargah to be sensitive towards third gender’s dressing pattern. Why force a particular behaviour on them?”
 
 Former commisioner of police PKB Chakravarty said the dargah committee needed to sit down and find a way to address the issue. “You cannot ask the third gender to wear a particular set of clothes. They have the right and the dargah too has certain rights. Only discussion, not agitation, can resolve this.”
 
