MUMBAI: Summer’s sizzling fury was unleashed on the city on Monday as the mercury surged by three degrees in 24 hours to touch 38.4 degrees Celsius at the Santa Cruz observatory, the second highest maximum   in March since 2014. Monday’s tally is 5.1 degrees above normal.

 The temperature was even higher in the satellite townships of Thane (43.1 degrees) and Navi   (39.1 degrees). Pune and Nashik experienced their hottest March days in over a decade. The IMD has forecast a further rise in the maximum temperature in the city.
 
 The north-westerly winds coming in from hot Kutch and Rajasthan are the reason, said the weather bureau. The rising temperature, coupled with high humidity levels, left Mumbaikars in deep discomfort and doctors advised drinking more water and taking proper sun protection.
 
 The mercury started rising over the weekend after days of temperatures that were close to Mumbai’s normal temperature of about 32 degree C in March. The maximum temperatures this month so far had been very calm, said IMD officials. In Colaba, the maximum temperature recorded by the IMD observatory was 33.4 degrees Celsius, 1.4 degrees above normal. Monday’s figure at Santa Cruz was the highest for the month so far this year.
 
 The relative humidity recorded by IMD Colaba and Santa Cruz was 67% and 65%, respectively. It is also significant that the minimum temperatures are also pretty high — 25.2 degrees C at Colaba and 21.5 degrees C at Santa Cruz on Monday.
 
 The discomfort levels were much worse for people in Thane, where the mercury climbed above 43 degrees on Monday. It was even more than in Nagpur, Nashik and Jalgaon (see box). It reflected the heatwave sweeping Maharashtra, with Pune recording its hottest March day in 14 years when the mercury touched 39.7 degrees C on Monday. Nashik, at 40.3 degrees C, too recorded its highest March temperature in over 11 years.
 
 “The winds are north-westerly coming from Kutch and Rajasthan which is causing the temperatures to soar. The rising temperature coupled with high humidity levels played a crucial role in causing the discomfort. This is leading us to feel that maximum temperatures are much higher than what is being recorded. Unlike the past few years, March this year has been very calm and quiet as maximum temperatures are known to rise beyond this as well. We are forecasting isolated heat wave conditions in the interior parts of North Madhya Maharashtra like Nagpur and Vidarbha,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region) of the India Meteorological Department.
 
 Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev said it only appears to be getting warmer every year. “On Monday afternoon I was travelling from Churchgate to Bandra by the local train and it felt extremely hot and uncomfortable,” said Hemdev.
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at skymetweather, said: “While this temperature level is predicted to drop by two-three degrees in around 48 hours, the hot and humid winds coming from over the Arabian Sea will increase the discomfort levels for citizens.”
 
 (With inputs from Neha Madaan, Freny Fernandes & Umesh K Parida)
 
 
