LONGEWALA: Building a war memorial isn;t easy and maintaining it seems to be even tougher! 

  Yuddhsthal built by the Indian Army at Longewala, the border town in Jaisalmer district of Thar Desert in Rajasthan as a tribute to the historical Battle of Longewala in1971 is in ruins today. The war memorial dedicated to the 1971 Indo-Pak war’s first major fight here in Western Sector has been the inspiration for many a patriotic movies, books and documentaries but unfortunately scripts a saga of ruins and utter neglect coupled with insensitive and nonchalant tourists inflicting damages to the war memorabilia.
 
 Ironically enough, the Yuddhsthal at Longewala and Jaisalmer War Museum, established in the   howcasing the bravery of the Indian Army, were inaugurated by Lieutenant General  , the then General Officer Commanding in Chief, Southern Command on the same day i.e. 24th August 2015.
 
 While a well maintained Jaisalmer War Museum is a major attraction to a huge tourist influx in all its glory befitting a War Museum, the Yuddhsthal at the very historical and nostalgic location of the Battle of Longewala during the Indo-Pak War of 1971 is a dismal tale of disintegrated ruins today.
 
 Longewala Yuddhsthal nearly 30 kms from the Ramgarh township and just two hours away from Jaisalmer was aimed at commemorating the heroic battle fought here. However, the war memorial with its construction jutting out at strategic places, makes a frail attempt to retrace the moments of heroism and courage of the gallant soldiers of the 23rd Battalion of Punjab Regiment on intervening night of December 4 and 5,1971. The site marks the humiliating defeat of Pakistan wherein over 179 Pakistani soldiers were killed / wounded and 37 Pakistani tanks were destroyed.
 
 The memorial is far from a befitting tribute to heroes of Longewala. Two of the Pakistani tanks destroyed in that battle (T-59 and Sherman) remain at Laungewala but the missing letters in the description boards are an eye sore. Murals of the decorated soldiers, whose supreme sacrifice led to victory in the Laungewala battle are lying in a state of disrepair while the Recoilless Guns and the Jeeps with the inflated tyres and dilapidated platforms with the tiles jutting out, serve as the practice grounds for firing poses by the thoughtless tourists. 
 
 Few soldiers can be seen around since nobody is interested in supervising the tourists or maintaining the place. Audio Visual theatre showcases a very poor quality movie giving an account of the battle and an interview with Major Kuldip Singh Chandpuri, Maha Vir Chakra, the hero of the Longewala battle.
 
