AJMER:   prefers to maintain silence on the issue of naming the   which will be open for  , probably from the month of June.   that was in power prior to Vasundhara Raje government was eager to name Ajmer-Kishangarh   as   Sharif Airport but had to face massive protests from BJP party.

 BJP MLA of Kishangarh, Bhagirath Choudhary, not wanting this controversy to rise again before the inauguration of the airport said, “The name Kishangarh airport which is sufficient at present. These days we recognise airports from the places like Sanganer airport and Palam airport.” He added that there is no need to name this airport after any person. He added that the code which this airport received from Canada has the alphabets KG.
 
 But BJP leaders including senior leaders want that there should be a proper name for Ajmer-Kishangarh airport which will identify a local hero or a place. Most of the BJP leaders want the name of Kishangarh airport after the last Hindu ruler Prithviraj Chauhan who ruled from Ajmer, the ruins of his fort are still there at Taragarh hills. Both sitting state ministers, Vasudev Devnani and Anita Bhadel, want that the name of the airport should be after Prithviraj.
 
 However, not all in the BJP are happy. A faction in the party and many religious leaders want that the name of Kishangarh airport should have the name of Pushkar Raj or be based on Lord Brahma. “Lord Brahma is the creator and therefore the airport after his name will create employment, help in tourism and facilities,” said Kripa Ram of Pushkar, a saint.
 
 The priests of Pushkar also want that the name of the airport should be Pushkar Raj as most of the passengers who will use this facilities will come to Pushkar only. “We have international festival here and it is a religious abode, therefore the airport should signify the importance of Pushkar,” said a priest.
 
 There are also some Dalit factions that want the name of airport after Dalit woman leader, Jhalkari Bai, Jhalkari Bai was a local freedom fighter and naming the airport after her will give her the due recognition, they feel. Other suggested names like Haribhau Upadhya and B K Kaul have been sent to the state government from the saffron groups.
 
 The group that demanded the naming of Kishangarh airport as Ajmer Sharif or Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti airport is not claiming anything this time. “In February 2013 there was a proposal given to last UPA central government to change the name of Ajmer railway station to ‘Ajmer Sharif’ which was heavily protested by BJP party. The Hindu Jagran Manch and other wings came on roads to stage their protest,” said a source.
 
 Looking at the controversy on the name of Kishangarh aiport, the stone laying foundation programme was organised only with the name of Kishangarh Aiport in September 2013 and the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid the foundation of Kishangarh airport.
 
 “Even then MP and the then Union state minister Sachin Pilot remained away from such controversy,” the source added.
 
 Official sources said that state government is the final authority that will name the airport but looking to the different views, the name till now remains Kishangarh airport. Tjere are many prominent BJP leaders who are sending suggestions to the state government for Kishangarh airport. During previous government, there was pressure from BJP and Hindu groups against the name ‘Ajmer Sharif Airport’ but sources said that the state government does not want to be involved in any controversy. It is looking for some prominent BJP leader to inaugurate the airport in June to send across a message that the state government is working on aviation facilities for common people which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised.
 
 
