MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday asked the Union government as to what was going on in the issue of fishermen of Tamil Nadu, especially in the matter pertaining to the killing of Rameswaram-based fisherman   on March 6. 

 One D Raju from   district filed a public interest litigation. He said fisherman Arul Glinton from   filed a complaint before the Mandapam Marine police saying that on March 6, when a group of fishermen from Rameswaram went for fishing, the   started firing at them in the  , in which Brit Joe was killed. 
 
 The Mandapam Marine police registered the case against unknown people of Sri Lanka under Section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and 25 (1A) of the Arms Act. The police could not probe the case properly. Thus, the court had to issue a direction to the government to investigate the case in a proper manner and to find and extradite the accused from Sri Lanka to face legal consequences, the petitioner said. The division bench consisting of Justice A Selvam and Justice N Authinathan heard the case.
 
 The central government said that the Vice-President of India received a communication from the Sri Lankan President stating that the island nation had ordered probe into the killing. Regarding it, the Centre was holding talks with the island nation, the court was told. 
 
 The bench said, "You (the government) said talks are going on with Sri Lanka. But, the media says fishermen are subjected to attacks by the Sri Lankan Navy. What is going on?"
 
 The state government said the   police had registered the case, which has now been transferred to the Ramanathapuram district police.
 
 It also said that the GPS equipment, installed on the boat was sent to forensic analysis in Chennai through judicial magistrate court. The information recorded in it is must to ascertain where the killing took place. As the GPS equipment had got damaged, the information recorded was not retrieved. It needed to be tested using advanced technology. The state police could do investigation under Section 188 of CrPC with sanction from the government. 
 
 Following it, the bench directed to find out the territorial jurisdiction where the killing took place and adjourned the case to June 21.
 
