NEW DELHI: The fate of the 39 Indian construction workers abducted from   three years back remains uncertain despite the government having suggested last week that they might still be alive.

 Foreign minister   met the relatives of the workers, mostly from Punjab, last week and said that the government had received information that the workers were probably in a jail at Badush near Mosul. 
 
 A media report from Badush said on Saturday that the jail now was no more than an “abandoned structure that has been unoccupied for weeks, if not months".
 
 “An official who quoted intelligence sources told Gen Singh that they were deployed for a hospital construction and then in a farm. From there, they were sent to a jail in Badush. There has been no information since then," Swaraj had been quoted as having said by PTI on July 16.
 
 MoS V K Singh had been sent to Erbil to trace the missing Indians immediately after news broke out that Mosul had been freed by IS. MEA on Saturday did not react to reports that the Badush jail no longer existed. 
 
 However, speaking on the search operation of 39  's Mosul, BJP president Amit Shah said in Jaipur, “the government is not misleading anybody. The search is on." Iraq’s ambassador to India
 
 Fakhri H Al-Issa did not respond to queries from TOI on the issue. He was, however, quoted as having said a few days ago to news agencies that Iraq had no knowledge about the whereabouts of the construction workers and that it was possible that they had been taken to Syria.
 
 “We really have no information about what really happened to them. The border between Iraq and Syria was open for long and it is possible that the captives might have been transferred to IS-controlled areas in Syria,” said Al Issa.
 
 Al Issa also said that his government is cooperating with Indian authorities over the issue. It is likely to again come up next week when Iraqi foreign minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari pays his first official visit to India from July 24-28 at the invitation of Swaraj.
 
 The government's information in the past has been based on intelligence received from foreign countries and from its sources in Iraq. It must be said here that there has never been any conclusive information to prove that the Indian workers were dead. For a while, when there was no information available, the government had maintained that there was nothing to prove that they were dead, or even alive.
 
 Swaraj had said last year, including in Parliament, that the government had no proof of their killing other than the statement of a man, Harjit Masih, who had escaped from the captivity of IS.
 
 Masih had claimed that all 39 Indians had been killed. In her annual press conference last year, Swaraj questioned Masih’s claim saying two heads of states in the Gulf region told her, PM Modi and President Pranab Mukherjee that the Indians were alive.
 
