BEGUSARAI: The district police on Wednesday busted a gang involved in online frauds.   SP Aditya Kumar said a police team intercepted three persons on a motorbike during routine vehicle checking drive. They were carrying more than a dozen Aadhaar cards and PAN cards of other persons. They were arrested on suspicion as a large number of cases of online frauds and hacking were reported in the district recently. 

 On the basis of information provided by the three, police raided the house of one Ram Chandra Ram at Nagdah under the Begusarai town police station area and arrested three persons from there. 
 
 “Signed chequebooks, debit cards and sensitive data procured from one online shopping portal were seized,” the SP said and added that the arrested persons included Pankaj Kumar of Sheikhpura, who is the master mind of the gang. The others arrested were Kundan Kumar Pandey and Rishu Pandey of Sheikhpura, Sony Kumar of Nawada and Arvind Kumar and Rajiv Kumar Rai of Nalanda district. 
 
 The police team also seized the data of candidates appearing in various examinations conducted by Bihar School Examination Board. “The gang used to lure the gullible candidates and asked them to deposit money in their bank accounts for getting more marks and doing them other favours,” the SP said. 
 
 Similarly, the data procured from the shopping portal was used to play mischief on people and hack their bank accounts after getting details of their debit cards and other necessary information. 
 
 “Pankaj revealed the name of another person, who used to provide him data for Rs10 per person. However, when the police raided the place of that person, he was not there,” the SP said and added that it was all part of a large nexus of hackers, data professionals with ground level operating criminals. He did not rule out the involvement of bank personnel since a large number of fictitious bank accounts were used to carry out the fraud. “With available inputs, further investigation is on,” he said.
 
 
