DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand has a significant population of retired and elderly persons especially concentrated in areas like Dehradun, Haridwar as well as hill villages. According to the latest electoral rolls, the state has 18.66 lakh voters who are in the age group 50-79 years. Issues like pension and   are those that many of the elderly feel strongly about and will resonate with them as they go to the ballot. Tajinder Kaur Chhabra, 88, who stays with her elder brother Harpal Singh, 91, says that politicians, many of whom are elderly themselves should seriously look at issues faced by senior citizens. “Our pension amounts are too meagre to cover expenses of medicines and healthcare facilities. Politicians come during election time and give all sorts of assurances and promises but they never materialise,” she said.
 
  Another octogenarian Brig (retd) KG Behl who is also an office-bearer of the consumer council as well as ex-servicemen association, alleges that the BJP government’s unfulfilled promise of OROP (One Rank One Pension) still remains an issue amongst most of the retired defence personnel in the state. For 87-year-old Raj Kanwar, a veteran journalist and businessman, issues like migration from hill villages are a big area of concern. “Due to excessive migration, only old people are left back in the villages. What has the government done for their welfare? There are no roads and electricity in these villages. There are no healthcare facilities being given to them and there is no pension either. The government may start schemes like ‘Mere bujurg, mere teerth’ but how will senior citizens go for a pilgrimage when they are not in good health? The basic problems have to be addressed first.”
  
  In a similar vein,   who works for Help Age India, Uttarakhand region, says that the non-availability of doctors in remote hilly areas of the state is a big problem that should be addressed on priority by the next government. “It is essential to appoint geriatric doctors in every district to take care of old-age related problems. Every old person should get free healthcare service. The state government gives a pension of Rs 800 to those senior citizens whose children are below 18 years of age. Instead, the government should give them a pension of at least Rs 1000 irrespective of the age of their children.”
