MUMBAI:  's open-air kitchen in  's   slum is strewn with refuse and  . She cooks meals for her six children amidst torn  , broken slippers and soiled wrappers. It's impossible to gauge where her home ends and the 132-hectare Deonar landfill begins. Ansari herself pays little attention to such meaningless distinctions. Her family lives off refuse collected from the dump, her children eat chocolates and goodies salvaged from the garbage and she's given birth to all her children at home surrounded by the same squalor. 

 "When it is time to go to the hospital for the delivery, we never have any money," says Ansari. "That's why none of the children have birth certificates." Her seventh child -- a daughter also delivered at home -- was born with polio and other complications and died on the way to the hospital. 
 
 Ansari's story reflects the numbers gathered by a situational analysis survey 'Life on the Margin: Charting Realities' conducted across 12 clusters of Shivaji Nagar by Apnalaya, an NGO founded in 1973. Her daughter, who died soon after birth, added to the high infant mortality rate in the slum -- 55 per 1000 live births compared to 41 across India. And her other severely malnourished children are part of the 57% of stunted kids in Shivaji Nagar -- 22.6% higher than the state-wide figures. Even her children's life expectancy hinges on their place of residence -- 39 years versus 67 years across India. 
 
 Shivaji Nagar, which falls within M-East ward, covers 32.5 sqkm and houses approximately 6,00,000 people, which is around 11.5% of Mumbai's slum population. Last year, the adjoining landfill hit the headlines after a series of fires broke out engulfing the city in a dense smog and leading to the expulsion of rag pickers from the dumping ground. This was followed by the demolition of illegal slums in Shivaji Nagar exacerbating the area's crippling poverty by depriving residents of both their livelihood and shelter.
 
 Unsurprisingly, M-East ward ranks 24th out of 24 wards in Human Development Indices. Shivaji Nagar, M-East ward's first settlement, has drawn migrant communities from Maharashtra, UP, Bihar, Bengal and Gujarat. Slum populations from across Mumbai have also been resettled here. According to the Apnalaya survey, which included 32,881 residents, a high number of Muslims live in Shivaji Nagar and over 50% of the population is under 20 years. Yet the area has no secondary school. 
 
 Karima, whose husband died about six years ago, supports her three kids by working in the dumping ground. She makes about Rs 6,000 a month significantly less than the average Shivaji Nagar family of five, which survives on Rs 7,802. In comparison, the average monthly income of an Indian household is Rs 14,000.
 
 Since Karima can't afford to send her two daughters to school, they will soon make up the 31% of illiterate girls in the 15-49 age group in Shivaji Nagar. The rest of the city has a 90.5% female literacy level. Boys in Shivaji Nagar are a little better off with a literacy level of 78.2% but far behind the city's 98.1% male literacy level. 
 
 Much of Karima's income -- Rs 100-150 a day -- is spent on buying water as most of Shivaji Nagar doesn't have access to the BMC's water supply. According to the survey, over 68% of residents buy water and there is a direct correlation between food insecurity and high expenditure on water. Around 11.2% of families felt they didn't have enough food in a month of which 6.5% families go hungry every third day. 
 
 Karima's extended family of seven falls within the last category. They don't even have money for emergencies. Recently, Karima's daughter, seven-year-old Farad, was bitten on her lip by a rat. "Her face was covered in blood," recalls Karima. The child was prescribed a Tetanus vaccine but the family didn't have Rs 30 to pay the doctor. So they simply cleaned her up and brought her home without treatment. 
 
 
