NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court said on Monday that former cricket administrators, who have been barred from holding posts in   and state associations, should not be allowed to represent these bodies in any way and agreed to hear a plea of the   (CoA) seeking its direction to restrain N   and others from participating in Board's special general body meeting.

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, AM Khanwilkar and DY Chandrachud said a person, who had been disqualified from holding posts in cricket bodies, stood disqualified from associating with any activities related to cricket administration and he could not represent BCCI and state associations.
 
 Senior advocate   and Tushar Mehta, appearing for state associations, said Srinivasan and other ineligible persons should be allowed to participate in meetings as nominee of state association. They said that the apex court order barred them from holding any posts in cricket associations but there was nothing wrong if they took part in the meeting as nominees of associations. Countering their contentions, the CoA headed by former Comptroller and Auditor General   told the bench that as per the spirit of the apex court order such disqualified people should not be allowed to participate in the board meeting.
 
 Senior advocate C U Singh, appearing for the committee, asked the bench to clarify whether persons who are disqualified from being office-bearers of a state association are nevertheless entitled to attend any special general meeting or annual general meeting of BCCI as nominees or representatives of a state association.
 
 Agreeing with his contention. The bench said, "It is difficult to comprehend that a person, who is not eligible after apex court verdict, can be allowed to represent BCCI in   meeting or can represent state associations in BCCI meetings. We do not want violation of our order. You cannot do things indirectly after being barred from doing it directly."
 
 The court said that issue raised by CoA needed to be debated and posted the case for final hearing to April 17.
 
 The apex court had on January 30 appointed a committee of four administrators to manage the affairs of world's richest cricket body BCCI after its President and other top office-bearers were barred from cricket administration. The committee--also comprising eminent cricket historian  , CEO & MD of Infrastructure Development Finance Company (IDFC) Vikram Limaye and former Indian women cricket captain Diana Edulji-has been supervising the affairs of BCCI since then.
 
 
 
 
 NEW DELHI: The Indian cricket board (BCCI) has postponed its much-hyped special general meeting (SGM) to April 18 evening in the Capital (5pm), which was tentatively scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Acting president CK Khanna confirmed it to TOI on Monday. "We have decided to postpone the SGM till April 18," he said.
 
 When asked about the reason behind rescheduling the meeting, Khanna said: "Keeping in mind the SC hearing on April 17, we have decided to postpone SGM."
 
