 has reached a stage where he needs no introduction. An artist par excellence, the comedian is known for his wit, humour and comic timing. Over the years, he has managed to gain great reputation through his hard work, which has resulted in many successful shows like   and  . His work, so far, has solidified his position in the industry and given him the status that he enjoys today. However, all has not been well in the recent past. With the actor being a part of several controversies and people around him a witness to his changed demeanor, have we lost the man who made us laugh and forget about our worries? 

 
  Looking at Kapil's journey, there is no doubt that all the fame and adulation he has earned didn't come easy. He has fought for it and made his way through the tough world of showbiz, even when he was an outsider. He first tasted success by winning the comedy reality television show The Great Indian Laughter Challenge in 2007. Post his stint, he was a part of different reality series on Television which included Comedy Circus, Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa, Chhote Miyan, Ustaadon Ka Ustaad and several others. Kapil wore different hats in all of them - he was a host sometimes or a stand-up comedian. He got noticed for his talent and sheer hard work. After his steady rise through these shows, the comedian ventured into his own and launched Comedy Nights with Kapil in 2013 on Colors, which remains his biggest success on the small screen. Currently, he is hosting The Kapil Sharma Show on  .
 
 Owing to the brilliant work he has done, Kapil has several awards tucked under his kitty. In 2016, Forbes India ranked him at 7th position in terms of fame and at 11th position in terms of income on their Celebrity - 100 list. He was also nominated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and was invited to the Rashtrapati Bhavan by President Pranab Mukherjee in September 2015 to acknowledge his contribution for the same.
 
  
  
  While everything was looking up for Kapil when he was hosting Comedy Nights With Kapil, his fallout with Colors came as a huge blow, not just to him but also to the viewers of the show. There was a lot of mud-slinging involved, wherein the CEO of the channel told The Times Of India in an exclusive interview that Kapil found it difficult to manage his success. He accused him of renegotiating and asking for more money after Comedy Nights With Kapil turned a hit. This didn't go down well with the comedian who felt he asked, what he deserved. Kapil shifted to Sony TV soon after, but there again, he was and continues to be constantly pitched against  , who has become the show-runner in no time. 
 Kapil also infamously managed to make it to the headlines last September with his tweet to PM Narendra Modi, where he stated that he was made to pay 5 lakh bribe to BMC for making his office. This led to a huge debate about illegal construction in the space he owns and landed Kapil in a soup. Many said that he must have been drunk to be tweeting early morning about such an issue. After the news, Kapil has many cases levied against him for the same, and they come as quite a dent to his hard-earned reputation.
 
 The sad part of the tale, however, is that this is not where it ends. Kapil's 'sloshed' behaviour has managed to bring him at the centre stage, yet again, for all the wrong reasons. There were reports in 2015 that a Marathi actress had accused a drunk Kapil of losing control over his actions at a wrap-up party of International Marathi Film Festival Awards. And the recent result of his being in an affected state is uglier than before. Kapil is now in news for getting into a fight with good friend and co-actor Sunil Grover on a flight, and assaulting him. This has made Sunil's return to the show unlikely. They have had differences earlier too when Sunil left the show to do 'Mad in India' but that didn't deter them from patching up. This time, however, it seems final. 
 
 With many fans upset over this development, they have come out in support of Sunil. Their outrage is quite visible on social media and other platforms, where they have blamed Kapil for becoming high-headed, taking his stardom for granted. They have also reminded him of how Sunil is the reason behind the fame he enjoys. This surely comes as a reality check for Kapil and we only hope that he learns from his mistakes.
 
 
 
  
  
 
