BENGALURU: The   (BMRCL) on Tuesday announced that no new   (TCTs), known as Sanchar, will be sold starting Wednesday. Scrapping of TCTs means that point-to-point concessional fares, where discounts were in the range of 19% to 23%, wouldn’t be available for commuters and they will have to rely only on Stored Value Ticket, known as Varshik, where concessions have been capped at 15%.

 Holders of smart cards with TCT facility can, however, use it till they exhaust their currency.
 
 Sanchar smart cards are essentially concessional passes between two fixed destinations, while Varshik cards could be used to commute between any destination till the currency is exhausted.
 
 In a terse statement,   cited changed business rules for the withdrawal of trip count tickets. But the move is a big loss to commuters as they used to get more concession for their metro trips under the TCT. Both Sanchar and Varshik are multiple Journey Tickets that are discounted over the Single Journey Tickets or tokens that the BMRC offers for commuters. However, under Varshik, the commuters get only a discount of 15%. The Sanchar trips, on the other hand, were a great hit among passengers as they used to get a discount varying from 19% to 23%.
 
 Krishna P, a regular commuter between Mysuru Road and MG Road, said he was very disappointed with the development. “Now, BMRC is acting like a private company. They should go for more commuter friendly measures and stop playing with commuters like this,” he said.
 
 Shwetha HR, a resident of Byappanahalli, said, “Already passengers are losing out on money in the form of parking fee at Metro stations. If they are cutting on discounts on metro tips, it is like a major blow for commuters, especially the middle class and the poor,” she added.
 
 UA Vasanth Rao, chief public relations officer, BMRCL, has said in the release that the existing Trip Count Ticket (TCT) holders can continue to use the TCT cards until the existing trips or validity is completed. “However, no new trips can be added from March 1, 2017. Such commuters using the TCT after the end of validity or trips, the same card can be used for the SVT add value. If any commuters seeks the refund of TCT, the same will be refunded as per existing business rules,” he has added.
 
 Repeated attempts to reach out to Metro officials, to understand the logic behind the sudden move, went futile.
 
