BENGALURU:   ushered in the New Year at the   (KIA), affecting the service of at least 89 flights-86 delayed and three diverted-on Sunday.   the   around 4.15am and lasted till 8.49am. 

 Airport officials said 78 departures and eight arrivals were delayed, while three, including an international (British Airways) flight, were diverted. "There was no cancellation of any flight," they said.
 
  Operations at KIA have been affected due to fog in recent days. Officials said most delays were due to a cascading effect as the airport doesn't see as many flights operate during the early hours. KIA normally experiences 'radiation fog', formed by the cooling of land after sunset by thermal radiation in calm conditions with clear sky. Its operations are generally affected between November 13 and February 16, sometime between 3am to 9am. 
 
 The situation is likely to persist with the weather department having predicted more fog in the coming week. The seven-day forecast by the meteorological department showed the possibility of fog/mist till January 5. "Minimum temperature is going to be in the 14-15 degree celsius range while the maximum temperature will be around 27 degrees celsius," the report read.
 
 On Sunday, visibility was as low as 50m at 5.30am, and it only improved to reach a level where operations were possible at about 8.50am.
 
 The Instrument Landing System, an internationally normalized system for navigation of aircraft upon the final approach for landing (it helps enhance visibility), allows operations when visibility is in the range of 550m or above. The CAT-I ILS system is intended for runway visibility of 550 metres.
 
 The situation has forced the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), which operates KIA, to add a fog advisory on its website under the frequently asked questions section. 
 
 Passengers can check the flight status on the home page under the arrivals/departures section but the advisory says fog which is difficult to predict "can be expected between November 15 to February 15 between 3am and 8.30am."
 
 
