CHANDIGARH: St John’s Old Boys Association (SJOBA) Foundation presented cheques of Rs 1 lakh each to two students for excelling in sports in the global arena. The students were Karandeep Kocchhar (golf) and Rishabh Sharda (tennis).

 The   also presented the Ranvijay trophies to Parusharth Chauhan and Akshit Guerja. Other students felicitated by the SJOBA Foundation included Utsav Dutta (best academics), Krishna Pandit (best sportsman), Prannay Kapur and Aman Cheema (best overall performers).
 
 The two students were handed over the cheques by Mac Sarin, Justice Ajay Tiwari, S P S   and Kavita Das, school principal. SJOBA Foundation executive committee members present on the occasion included Gautam Khanna, Sandip Sahni, Nipun Mehan, Aneesh Bhanot and  . The grandparents of Karandeep and parents of Rishabh also attended the function.
 
 S P S Ghai, chairman, SJOBA Foundation, said, “The prime objective of the foundation is to nurture talented students of our school in academics, sports and co-curricular activities so that they emerge successful on the world arena. In keeping with this, we identified two super achiever students – Karandeep Kocchhar, who is excelling in golf internationally and Rishabh Sharda, who has tremendous potential in the world arena in tennis. We have provided them Rs 1 lakh each to partially help them in meeting the cost of participating in competitive tournaments in India as well as abroad.”
 
 “Apart from the finances,” Ghai added, “in conjunction with the school, the parents of the student and his coach/mentor, the SJOBA Foundation is also working out a detailed long-term plan for them. This includes assisting them in training programmes, getting equipment, facilitating an interface with current champions in their chosen field, assisting in providing opportunities to participate in various championships, helping them to reach out to private/government sponsorships and grants,” he added.
 
 Kavita Das lauded the SJOBA Foundation and said that this was probably one of the very few alumni associations in the world who took such an active interest in facilitating the success of students. “We are proud that you are making all-out and selfless efforts to help establish the name of St John’s School globally and the SJOBA Foundation is a big source of motivation for all our students,” she said.
 
