SHIMLA: Three employees of a child care institute (Balika Ashram) in Chamba district of Himachal were arrested on Tuesday on charges of sexually abusing and  . This comes just over two months after a 16-year-old girl, posthumously nicknamed 'Gudia', was raped and murdered in Kotkhai on July 4. This had led to widespread protests in a state . In Tuesday's case, the girls ere shifted and women ho were shifted and women home guards deployed at the ashram. Report of the girls'   is awaited. An accountant, cook and attendant were arrested following the registration of a case under the provisions of   and   (POCSO) against them. The harassment came out on September 24 when a staffer of district child protection unit counselled one of the girls, who then revealed names of five other girls who were subjected to sexual abuse and harassment by employees.This is akin to the Apna Ghar case of Rohtak where a team of the   had rescued inmates on May 9, 2012.

 The matter was brought to the notice of Chamba deputy commissioner Sudesh Kumar Mokhta on Tuesday and he directed the police to register a case. He also convened an emergency meeting of officials from district administration, police, the child protection unit and district childline in the evening.
 
 It was then decided that the entire staff of Balika Ashram would be shifted to ensure free and fair investigation and to deploy female home guards for the safety of the girls in the ashram.
 
 “We have conducted a medical examination of six girls who have alleged sexual abuse and harassment by three employees. The medical examination of rest of the girls would also be conducted if needed. Strict action would be taken against the employees found guilty in the investigation,“ Mokhta said.
 
 SP Chamba Virender Tomar said he came to know of this on Tuesday and an FIR was registered and the employees arrested.
 
 Mansi Sahai Thakur, director, women and child development department, said directions have been issued to suspend the accused employees and to submit a detailed report on the incident.
 
