Mumbai: A day after Bajaj Auto MD Rajiv Bajaj criticized the Narendra Modi government on its demonetization move, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra and HDFC Bank MD Aditya Puri came out in support of it. Mahindra said the objective of demonetisation was, first and foremost, to change mindsets. He said the move has created transparency and traceability. “Everybody is going to think twice about going back to their old ways. From what I understand, the conversion to digital has occurred at a pace much faster than if the effort had not been made,” he said at a session titled “Reimagine and not re-engineer” at the Nasscom India Leadership Forum 2017 on Friday. Mahindra credited Modi with the ability to understand the correlations to enable mindset changes.  HDFC Bank MD Aditya Puri too came to Modi’s defence. “Demonetization is demonetised for nothing,” he said, noting that India has the highest percentage of cash in the world. “Is there going to be a larger base of people in this country paying income tax, yes there will be. It will lead to transparency. The government has made an announcement that they will only receive and pay digitally. This will reduce corruption. Cash is very expensive to handle and printed notes go out in 1.5 years and replacement is expensive. It encourages rent-seekers,” Puri said. He said mandis, traders and farmers have got on to UPI (unified payment interface). “When we asked some of the players whether they want to go back, they said no,” he said. On Thursday, Bajaj took a dig at demonetisation, saying the idea itself was wrong and it was incorrect to blame its execution. “If the solution or the idea is right, it will go like a hot knife through butter,” he said. Mahindra said the Swachh Bharat campaign is an effort to boost the tourism sector. Tourism, he said, is a hot button issue for Modi. “Tourism is a higher margin service business than IT. He sees the lack of cleanliness in India as an impediment to India getting a huge chunk of that,” he said. “He was the first person to go and talk to the UN about toilets. That was a risk. I think this man is trying to change mindsets,” he said. Top-level corruption gone Asked about ease of doing business and whether corruption continues to plague the system, Anand Mahindra said based on his talks with people in Delhi, corruption at the top level is virtually non-existent. With America looking inwards, India can lead world: Mahindra Two days after RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani said Donald Trump was a blessing in disguise for India, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra said Trump presents an exciting opportunity for India to reimagine for the world. “Trump’s Make America Great Again is about reimagining America, it’s not about reimagining the world. The problem and opportunity is, there is space for a country and a leader to try and fill the vacuum that’s going to come because the president of America is not reimagining the world. I think this is an enormous opportunity for India,” he said at the Nasscom India Leadership Summit on Friday. He said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was trying to fill the gap. “But I don’t think his economy is large enough and does not have the heft to do it. Chinese President Xi Jinping was in Davos talking about being the leader of the world. But China will always be feared,” he said. India, he said, could serve as a bridge builder at a time when nations are getting separated. Mahindra said the ‘Make America Great Again’ policy will also make America a wonderful place to invest in. “The stock market is already cheering. Our group is going to double our bets on America because we think it is going to be very robust,” he said.