JAIPUR: The   has directed the   to reinstate a constable 17 years after his removal from service for overstaying his leave.

 The single bench of Justice S P Sharma quashed the removal order and asked the authorities to reinstate him in service and pay him 75% of the salary payable to him in the 17 years of his removal period. The court, however, said the CRPF is at liberty to order penalty other than dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement.
 
 Prem Chand Dewanda, the counsel for the petitioner, said Jawahar Ram had joined the 97 Battalion of CRPF on the post of a constable in 1988. He was served with a charge-sheet on January 25, 1999, on two grounds.
 
 First was that he remained absent for 38 days over his sanctioned leave without permission and the second one was disobedience of legitimate order of the competent authority directing him to rejoin duty. He had overstayed the leave despite the order.
 
 The petitioner said he had availed the leave for taking care of his unwell wife but in the meanwhile two deaths took place in a short interval which had shattered his mental balance. First, his uncle passed away followed by his niece. 
 
 However, the authorities did not accept his explanation and proof of death certificates from competent authorities. His appeal to the higher appellate authority was also dismissed on the ground that he was a habitual latecomer on which he approached the   in 2001.
 
 The court observed that it is true that the petitioner was serving with the CRPF, a disciplined force, and in certain circumstances even an absence of two days or more might be fatal while on active duty but the circumstances have to be examined.
 
 The court said that taking into account the circumstances, which the petitioner had put forward along with proof relating to death of his two near relatives in the intervening period due to which he overstayed his leave by 38 days, the punishment awarded is shockingly disproportionate. It is not only harsh but grossly in excess of the allegations levelled against him.
 
 Town vending committee formed: Collector tells HC
 
 Jaipur collector   on Friday informed the high court that he had constituted the town vending committee on Thursday. He said after the survey, vending zones in the city would be declared.
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari had summoned the district collector over the delay in constituting the vending committee on a petition by Bharat Vikas Samiti. The petition alleged that in the absence of town vending committee, street vendors have converted the city roads into marketplaces hitting the traffic and the business of shop owners in these areas.
 
 
