Mumbai: With speculation rife that  , the main promoter and vice-chairman of  , is eyeing a slew of acquisitions to grow the 14-year-old bank, the lender’s board on Thursday gave its nod to sell up to 6.2 crore shares, currently valued at Rs 5,363 crore. 

 The bank said it would issue shares through rights issue, public issue or private placement, including a qualified institutions placement ( ), after it gets shareholders’ nod and also regulatory approvals. 
 
 After Thursday’s board meeting, the bank said the money raised by selling 6.2 crore shares will be used to “pursue consolidation opportunities in Indian banking and financial services space, capitalise on unprecedented opportunities in acquisition and resolution of stressed assets in banking sector — including participation in a “bad bank”, give thrust to additional avenues of organic growth such as new opportunities in digital expansion, domestic lending, international lending, etc. and growth of subsidiaries.”
 
 On Thursday, after the announcement, the bank’s stock on BSE closed at Rs 865, up 0.7% on the day. Kotak Bank’s 6.2 crore shares translate to about 3.4% of the bank’s equity. The stake sale will also bring down the promoters’ stake in the bank, which is a regulatory mandate. “The board of Kotak (Bank) has arrived at the above decision based on its review of the RBI’s communication to the company regarding shareholding limits and having taken note of the sale of shares undertaken by the promoter of Kotak (Bank) on March 8, 2017,” the bank said in a statement. On March 8, Uday Kotak had sold about 1.5% stake to two Canadian pension funds for about Rs 2,255 crore. 
 
 Earlier in February, the RBI asked the bank’s promoters to bring down their stake in the bank to 30% by June 30, 2017, and subsequently, to 20% by December 31, 2018 and to 15% by March 31, 2020.
 
 It said that the quantum of fund to be raised was assessed “based on the above requirements and maintaining key performance parameters in the medium and long term in the interest of all shareholders”.
 
 Of late there has been strong speculation in the market that Kotak Bank was looking at buying out the government’s stake in Axis Bank. While Kotak Bank has declined to comment on the same,   has denied any such plan. Kotak Bank’s name was linked with a possible buyout of Bharat Financial (formerly  ) and also buying out of promoters’ stake in Mahindra & Mahindra Financial. M&M group has denied any such deal.
 
 
