THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three years after the vigilance special court ordered a fresh inquiry into the multi-crore Travancore Titanium corruption case involving top Congress leaders, the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) has formed a special team in its special investigation unit-1 under the direct supervision of ADGP (vigilance) for a comprehensive probe into the case.

 The special team led by deputy superintendent Sini Dennis also have two circle inspectors under him in the task that is being directly supervised by ADGP (vigilance) Sheikh Darvesh Sahib. The team was set up last month, and the probe has been launched by the agency. “The inquiry was not progressing as it should have been. It requires some investigation abroad and also some serious application of mind,” state police chief Loknath Behera, who is also holding the charge of vigilance director, said.
 
 He said that the agency was targeting to complete the probe in another three months. He said that the setting up of special team will help expedite the pace.
 
 At the same time, top vigilance sources on conditions of anonymity said that the special team was not constituted only for expediting the probe that was dragging on, but after it was found that the case is not just about procedural violations alone. “Money is involved and has been transacted as kickbacks. So the case has broader dimensions,” sources said. 
 
 Former chief minister  , opposition leader   and former public works minister   are among the accused in the case. The facts of the case dates back to 2005-06, when the then UDF government signed an agreement to install an effluent treatment plant worth Rs 258 crore and the materials were imported till 2010. Materials worth Rs 85 crore were imported from countries, including Finland, through the consultant, M/s Mecon. 
 
 It was alleged that no global tender was invited to award the construction of the effluent treatment plant. It was also alleged that the accused had colluded with other persons and tried to install expensive machinery with an intention to make unlawful gain. TNN
 
 
