BENGALURU: The anger and frustration was palpable as parents of the children of a Bellandur preschool, whose worker  , gathered near the   on Sunday. Many citizens, who're outraged by the turn of events, too joined the peaceful protest. The message was loud and clear: Take tougher action against the management, especially the principal, and complete the probe to avoid further trauma to children by making them repeatedly relive the ordeal.

 While the accused,  , a non-teaching staff member, has been arrested, members of the management, including the principal who allegedly tried to hush up the matter, are out on bail. At present, seven cases of child abuse have been reported and at least 30 more children are suspected to have been abused.
 
 “The authorities have given us promises, but we want immediate action. The last nine days were traumatic. Our children will have to repeat their statements to a magistrate, this despite them having already spoken to police about what had happened. We can already see changes in their behaviour. While we respect the law, it's not fair to force our children to recall the events. We want the first hearing with the magistrate to happen in the next two days. We are proud that our children are speaking up, but now it's time for us to make them proud as parents by upholding justice,“ said the mother of a victim.
 
 Another parent alleged that the principal was aware of what was going on. “She even asked the parent not to act against the accused, making her complicit. She must be charged for abetment under section 16 of the Pocso Act and put behind bars.“ 
 
 The parents also demanded police invoke sections 5, 6 and 16 of the Act against the school authorities to ensure harsher punishment. At present, they have been charged under section 21 for failing to report the incident. If found guilty, they will be sentenced to six months in jail. 
 
 “We've fol lowed the system and now, we want to see action. Police have admitted that there were lapses and that the investigation was conducted in haste,“ said Major  , a protester.
 
 Hemanth Nimbalkar, additional commissioner of police (law and order), east, arrived at the spot and spoke to the parents. “As a member of the police force and father of a six-year-old girl, I assure you that nobody will be spared and such incidents will not be tolerated. We will make sure that the probe is completed at the earliest,“ he told the parents.
 
