AJMER: The   on stomach as a vaccine is much prevalent in   of Chittorgarh, Rajsamand and Bhilwara region. And despite the   spending crores of rupees towards   in villages, it has remained unsuccessful in creating awareness on this social evil. For locals, tantriks are still more preferable and reliable than doctors and nurses in Bhilwara villages. 

 Parents who take their children to tantriks for branding also have scars on their stomach which indicates they too undergone the practice. Interestingly, state minister of woman and child welfare Anita Bhadel is also district in-charge of Bhilwara and such activities are more prevalent in this region.
 
 “Branding hot iron is not a new thing in this region as the scar shows that they are safe from influence of evil spirits,” said Madan Lal Kumawat of Bigod. He added that first sign of evil spirit in body results in running nose and breathing problems. “There are thousands of people in the region with scar of branding hot iron in their stomach when they were tender aged,” added his brother Jundan.
 
 “During certain workshop, it came out that health and other departments like child labor are afraid of speaking against such dogma because they do not want to make round of courts to produce evidence,” said Suman Trivedi, chairperson of district child welfare committee (CWC), Bhilwara.
 
 Trivedi said the committee has also invited Anganwari workers in the workshop and asked them to inform about the incidents of 1,098 so that CWC can work in such cases, “We have registered many cases against such incident in which two accused were arrested and now we are asking police to book these accused in non-bailable sections,” added Trivedi.
 
 She agreed that this dogma and superstition is a tradition in the region and people feel proud to show their scars of hot iron brand on their stomach. “The main problem is that people do not have faith in medical and health services and rather they go to Tantriks,” said Trivedi adding it is our collective duty to eradicate such evil practice for the sake of children.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said cases which reach hospital are reported to different departments but there are large number of children branded with hot iron who were taken back to their houses in unbearable pain, “Tantriks give some leaves and ask mothers to put those leaves on the wound so that they improve in few months,” added a source.
 
 As soon as children find problem in breathing, parents take their children to Tantriks, “Basically, this in pneumonia and needs faster treatment as children are less than one year old,” said a doctor of Mahatma Gandhi Hospital Bhilwara.
 
 
