NAGPUR: The   came to fore as a   walked into one of the cages that was kept to trap another problem leopard. Even though the adult male was trapped on Saturday in Chiklabodi near  , the   did not take away the remaining cages which had goats as live feed in them.

 As a result, on Sunday, around 8.30pm, a four-month-old leopard cub got trapped in one which was placed 300 feet away from where the male was caught.
 
 After a girl was killed in a leopard attack on December 22, the foresters placed cages with goats in different places to trap the animal. Now, the trapping of the cub indicates that there are at least two leopards in the area and it is not certain which one would have mauled the girl.
 
 Yet again the situation got tense as local villagers wanted the trap to remain so that its mother and another cub too would be captured. They feared that the mother would create havoc on not finding the cub.
 
 However, after examining the cub, veterinarian Gunwant Bhadke suggested that it be reunited with its mother. After a lot of persuasion, forest staff and police managed to convince the villagers and released the cub around 11.30pm. They remained at the spot till 4am to ensure nothing untoward happens.
 
 “On flashing torchlight, we realized that the mother and the other cub were close by. Hence, we released it immediately,” said Bhadke, adding that the trapped cub was four months old and healthy.
 
 Wildlife experts say all leopards are not man-eaters. “The girl must have been in a crouching position and hence must have been attacked. When a person is not standing, a leopard or a tiger feel it is another animal,” they said.
 
 Early last month, a leopard had mauled a teenage boy in Dhiwarwada, also near Koka, while he was on his haunches attending to nature’s call.
 
 Bhandara deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Umesh Verma was not available for comments. Lakhni RFO Koli, under whose jurisdiction the area falls, said, “The cages will be removed in a day or two so that more leopards are not trapped.”
 
 Earlier too a leopard had killed three goats but villagers did not allow the animal to consume them. Talking to TOI, some villagers expressed anger against the forest officials for delayed compensation for crop damage and livestock kills.
 
