Mumbai: Year-on-year growth in bank credit slowed down to a historic low of 4.8% for the fortnight ended February 17 as banks shied away from lending. Bank deposit growth was 12.8% year-on-year, despite withdrawals continuing during the fortnight as remonetisation picked up pace. At nearly Rs 75 lakh crore, outstanding bank loans is only Rs 3.4 lakh crore more than it was at the beginning of the current fiscal. 

 As against this, aggregate bank deposits are Rs 105 lakh crore — almost Rs 12 lakh crore higher than at the beginning of the year, boosted by  . If loan growth does not spike in the next six weeks,   will have witnessed the lowest credit growth in decades. 
 
 Bank credit is sluggish because loans to industry have actually shrunk. Whatever growth has been witnessed in lending has been due to personal loans, which includes home loans. The sector-wise deployment of bank credit — available as on January 20 — reveals that credit to the overall industry during the current fiscal actually shrunk 5.3%. Of this, the sharpest decline was in lending to medium-sized industries, which saw bank credit decline by 9.7%.
 
 According to a report by  , the headline credit growth numbers are misleading and the actual credit growth rate is closer to 7%. This is because the RBI data does not capture the impact of bank investment in bonds that is substituting credit growth (see graph). 
 
 Bank investment in bonds is growing at 16-18%. Over Rs 1.7 lakh crore of loans to state electricity boards have been converted into bonds under the government’s   scheme.
 
 According to Madan Sabnavis, chief economist,  , the dip in bank lending to industry can be matched with the low growth in industrial production. In the three quarters of this year, production increased by 0.7%, -0.9% and 1% respectively.
 
 “The major driver of growth in credit this year, as has been the case in the last 2 years, is the retail segment, which has grown 9.4%. Here, all segments have contributed to growth in credit, spearheaded by home loans and vehicle loans, which have the largest shares followed by credit cards and consumer durables,” said Sabnavis.
 
 Sabnavis added that mortgages have become a hunting ground for public sector banks too, which are shifting focus based on the observation that the probability of non-performing assets is lower in this segment. The credit numbers are at sharp variance to the growth numbers reported by the  . However, one pointer to the strong consumption is the high growth rate being registered by the credit cards segment, which has jumped 32% even though the share in aggregate credit is less than 1%.
 
 
