BHOPAL: Here’s a strange fallout of GST — there is no account of goods coming in and going out of   after the rollout of the one-country-one-tax on July 1. And there’s unlikely to be any until e-way bill is in force, perhaps in September.

 Traders and officials point out that since VAT has been scrapped after GST, the once-important form 49 has vanished. It used to be a list of notified goods for declaration to be taken in or out of the state. There’s no alternative in place yet. The government was to roll out e-way bill along with GST to replace form 49, but it is still stuck in files. 
 
 State finance & commercial taxes minister   is aware of the problem. “GST is for the ease of public. Things will get clear in the coming days. We expect e-way bill to come into existence in two months,” he said. 
 
 With the check posts of commercial taxes department closed after GST, there is no   of what is coming in and going out of the state, said an official. The   at check posts have already reported to their circle offices. No one’s keeping watch, raising fears of a short but unbridled run for tax defaulters.
 
 Officials apprehend that the state will suffer revenue losses, since information from the dealers is the only option left to find out trade details. It all depends on whether a dealer chooses to give correct information to the authorities.
 
 The confusion will continue till September when the e-way bill is expected to be notified by the Centre and implemented by the states.
 
 Under the new regime, moving goods worth more than Rs 50,000 requires prior online registration of the consignment and securing an ‘e-way bill’ that tax officials can inspect any time during transit to check for tax evasion. It missed the rollout date with GST, and officials expect it to be implemented in September with some tapered down rules so that traders do not find it difficult to comply with.
 
 Another teething issue seen since the rollout of GST is with the tax payment module. Online is the only way to   in GST but often the challan doesn't get generated, say traders. Officials say it’s still early days for GST and the process will even out in a few days.
 
 
