The last 6-8 months in Karthik Kumar’s life have been rather eventful. It all began in October 2016 when the actor-turned-comic announced his retirement from the film industry in a letter he posted online, which went viral. Then, earlier this year, he was caught unawares in the   controversy, in which his wife, RJ and singer  , was accused of leaking private pictures of   celebs on her social media page. While most people may choose to go off the radar, Karthik, despite being advised to do so, chose to write his third special —   — which, he says, represents this difficult phase of his life. The result? “Comedy is therapeutic; it’s been more effective than my therapist,” he says. The tumult that Karthik has gone through is evident when he speaks about the last few months, but what one also sees is that his art has helped him ride out the storm. Speaking to   after a teaser show he had in the city recently for his special, Karthik spoke about the role of comedy in mending his life and why the comedy scene in Bengaluru is the best in the country.

 
 
 My first special was easier because it spoke about identity; a lot of people could connect with the second special since it spoke about middle-class mindsets. This special came from a difficult period in my life. People advised me to take a break from comedy since I was not in a positive frame of mind; I was listless and depressed. But I thought, what if I start writing about this and make it into comedy. If your art can stick with you through your toughest time, then it is therapy. For instance, my first draft about divorce was an angry one, but by my 13th draft, I was giving my marriage another chance. As the drafts changed, I felt my emotions also changing — I wasn’t angry anymore. This show heals me; it’s better than the therapist I’m going to (laughs).
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The only time I spoke about the entire episode was when I put out a video online, which I pulled down after eight hours. I never spoke to the press and I still don’t want to; I don’t want to clarify or explain. People thought that my special will be a tell-all, but I have no interest in doing that. I want to talk about what I went through and in that process, hopefully, people will realize that since we live in such a social world, we could all face something like this at some point. You could be shamed and trolled tomorrow. Women are especially shamed and are constantly told to not become a source of disappointment. My wife is going through so much shaming right now by her fraternity. But if this happened to them, would they be just as unforgiving? In the special, I talk about depression and having a hard time, and I don’t speak on behalf of anyone but me, because my blood is my blood, and if I talk about someone else’s blood, it becomes chutney.
 
 
 
 Comics are constantly in the process of trying new material, which we anyway test out during open mics. I know what Bloody Chutney feels like on the inside, but I want to know what it feels like to the audience.
 
 
 
 Yes, I will lose some parts. I know that some things didn’t work and I will have to mercilessly edit it out, which is painful. Some people edit better and easier, but for me, it’s tough.
 
 
 
 Too many testers kill spontaneity. I will be touring the show in 40 cities across the world, and the Chennai and Bengaluru audience give me a good gauge of my material. The thing is that I won’t tour extensively in cities like Kanpur and Lucknow; even in other countries, I will be performing to people who are a lot like me in terms of background. So, by testing in these two cities, I instinctively know what I need to change.
 
 
 
 It’s a lot of fun performing here. If you want to try something avant garde or different, Bengaluru is the place to do it. This is the most active city when it comes to standup comedy, even more than Mumbai or Delhi. Bengaluru is the most friendly city in terms of a cosmopolitan acceptance of a new art form.
 
