Nashik: The skies are clear and the air started echoing with the loud cheers of “gai bola re dhinna” and “lapet, lapet” across the city since Friday morning itself. 

 As the city enters the last leg of the run-up to  , the passion of kite flying has gripped one and all across Nashik with residents of the old city showing maximum enthusiasm. 
 
 The enthusiasm was so high that many youngsters dared the biting morning cold to try their hands with the ancient tradition of Nashik’s kite-flying. The only spokes in the fun were the effect of the civic elections and the government’s demonetisation drive. 
 
 “I think, demonetisation has had a creative effect on this year’s festival. Look up in the sky and you can spot quite a few kites made of the banned currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000,” said Rajendra Kadam, who is into kite-making and its marketing for 13 years. 
 
 Apart from the ones made of paper, kites made of plastic, cloth, tissue paper and metal paper are also in demand. China-made kites of a variety of shapes are also flooding the market and there are several takers as well. 
 
 “Instead of buying a paper kite of Rs 10, people prefer buying Chinese kites made of cloth and polymer. These cost around Rs 40 to Rs 120, but they are more durable. Many kites have PVC sticks used in them. This makes the kites unbreakable unlike the ones with the fragile wooden sticks,” said Syed Shahnawaz, a prominent kite seller in the Trimbak Darwaza area in Old City. 
 
 Kites with photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni are also a hot pick this year. Interestingly, ticket aspirants of various parties have already started distribution of kites with colour combinations matching their respective party flags or symbols ahead of the civic elections.
 
 As Makar Sankranti will be celebrated over a weekend this time, many people have planned to fly kits both on Saturday and Sunday. “Kite flying will be accompanied with music and snacks and will install a music system on our building terrace,” said Atharva Rajhansa, a Govindnagar resident. 
 
 
