THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has received a major setback for awarding infrastructure projects contracts without tenders. One of the first infrastructure project planned under   (KIIFB) — upgradation of the   road — was affected after the high court intervened against the practice of awarding projects on nomination basis. The court has asked the government to tender the project after state government decided to award the project to Vadakara-based Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) in August 2016.

 The high court asked the state to tender the project based on a petition filed by Builders Association of India (Muvattupuzha centre). The court asked the government to invite expressions of interest either from contractors or accredited agencies.
 
 The LDF government was following the practice of awarding projects on nomination basis to ULCCS by giving it an undue preference as a cooperative society . On August 21, 2016, the state PWD arbitrarily decided to award the upgradation work of Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road project to ULCCS.
 
 It was one of the17 accredited agencies selected by the previous UDF government to execute infrastructure projects. Already , contractors association had filed a petition against government for awarding contracts worth Rs 977 crore to ULCC during previous UDF government.
 
 PWD minister G Sudhakaran said that the PWD will issue a new tender for the project based on the court order. “Even before the court order, we had decided not to award projects without a tender,“ he said. However, he suspected that there was a foul play citing the inordinate delay in inking a pact with ULCCS though the government took a decision in August 2016. The Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla project is worth Rs 56 crore.
 
 President of contractors association Varghese Kannampally welcomed the court order. “It is important to tender projects to ensure transparency . Only competition can bring down the work amount. It is good that the government is making a change in its stand. Awarding contract without a tender is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution,“ he said.
 
