Nagpur: Ghazal maestro   was presented with the ‘Pride of Planet’ award on Thursday at a ceremony held at Chitnavis Centre. The award instituted by Planet V, Dr Pachlore-Foundation Multiversity is given to people who have excelled in their sphere of work. The award carried a plaque and a sword of honour. 

 Aziz was also presented a violin which is usually an accompaniment in ghazal singing. The foundation also presented awards to two local personalities, celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar for his world record feat of cooking non-stop for 54 hours and to Dr Amit Samarth for being the first Indian to finish the Race Across America in first attempt in solo category.
 
 Accepting the award, Aziz said in a speech laced with modesty, “I still feel that there is a lot left to accomplish. I am extremely impressed with the accomplishments of other two recipients who have put India on the international map through their record-breaking feats.”
 
  The singer said that it was a privilege to be receiving this award along with Manohar and Samarth as their efforts required a lot of physical input in fixed time frames.
 
 Saying that he had first visited Nagpur in 1981 for a concert, Aziz added, “I would prefer coming to the city for a musical concert and not for receiving awards.”
 
 Planet V, Dr Pachlore Foundation-Multiversity has been working in social, cultural, medical and rural spheres in Central India and recognizes the services of persons who have excelled in these areas. 
 
 The other recipients of the award include actor Dr Devisingh Shekhawat, Bishop Rosario, Bunny Reuban Mohan Agashe and Dr Satish Wate.
 
 The award presentation was followed by a rendezvous with the ghazal singer which had him in conversation with Dr Lokendra Singh who received the award last year and Dr Vikram Singh Pachlore. 
 
 Sharing his reasons for pursuing a career in ghazal singing, Aziz, who hails from Hyderabad said, “My mother was a writer and when I was young there used to be a lot of baithaks in my house every Saturday where many renowned singers would be present. The thought of singing came from there.” 
 
 Speaking about his high levels of fitness, the 62-year-old maestro, who has been a disciple of Mehdi Hasan, stressed the need to exercise.
 
  “Hasan saab was a pehelwan too and would do a lot of hard work. He would say that exercise helps in breath control which is so important for a singer. I still visit the gym thrice a week and do weight training too.”
 
 
