BENGALURU/PANAJI: Six picnickers from Goa were feared washed away in the   falls in   village, 8km from Karwar, on Sunday after the water level suddenly rose due to floods caused by the recent spell of rain.
The bodies of Frenzila Pires, 21, and Fiona Pacheco, 29, from Raia, Salcete, were recovered, police said. The search for four others -Marcelina Estibeiro, 38, from Curtorim; Sameer Gavade, 32, from Keri, Ponda; Siddu Chari, 22, from Vasco; and Renuka, 23 -did not yield results till Sunday night.
 
 Uttara Kannada SP Vinayak Patil said the oper ation will resume on Monday .
 
 Around 11.30am on Sunday , there was a downpour around Karwar and the water level below the falls rose by 10feet in minutes. Those swimming under the falls were caught off-guard, and their efforts to escape the rising waters went in vain.
 
 Locals living around the forest area rushed to the spot and helped police, fire brigade and lifeguards in the rescue operation, which was hinder ed by heavy rain. Police sources said the victims were part of three groups of nearly 40 people from Goa, who had gone to the falls on a weekend excursion.   MLA Alex Reginald Lawrenco visited the site, coordinated with the rescue operators, hospital and police officials in identifying the victims. The bodies were sent to   for postmortem. Nagaramadi is a season al waterfall in Karwar taluk, and has become a hot picnic spot, especially during the monsoon. It attracts a large number of visitors from Goa on weekends and holidays.
 
 In September 2016, Nix Fernandis, 16, from  , drowned at Nagaramadi falls. In August 2016, a group of tourists from Goa had been saved by fire personnel when they were caught in the forest after the stream they had crossed to reach Nagaramadi began to swell and overflow.Despite these incidents, tourists go to the spot without informing the authorities.
 
 Police authorities have requested tourists to be careful while venturing into the forest to reach Nagaramadi.
 
 Locals said tourist authorities have failed to put in place safety measures, despite the rising number of tourists.
 
