Kolkata: The Supreme Court’s order banning alcohol vends along highways has resulted in even food disappearing along these stretches in the state. A majority of the bars and dhabas along the highways used to serve alcohol and have shut down since April 1. This means there are hardly any eateries to go to for a quick bite while travelling.

 TOI travelled along stretches of Kona Expressway, Durgapur Expressway, Kalyani Expressway and   to discover that almost all “bar-cum-restaurants” had downed shutters rather than stay open to serve food.
 
 “It is absolutely unviable to just sell food,” said Munna  , owner of Balaji on Durgapur Expressway near Singur. He claimed the daily bar sales at Balaji used to be in excess of Rs 35,000 till it shut down on Saturday while the kitchen sales hardly crossed Rs 10,000. 
 
 “We do not have neighbourhoods in the vicinity to ensure regular revenue. We depend on tourists and business travellers who prefer to have a few drinks with their food. Now when we cannot serve alcohol, it is absolutely not viable to keep the place open,” Pakhira said.
 
 Soumen Roy was driving back to Kolkata with his family on Sunday evening after a two-day trip to Santiniketan. The family of four had planned their departure in such a manner so that they can have dinner at their favourite dhaba on the Durgapur Expressway before reaching their   home.
 
 But when they reached the dhaba, they found it shut. It was the same with most eateries on the expressway. “Most decent places along the expressway serve alcohol though we only wanted to have some tandoori dishes. But almost all the places were shut. The eateries that were serving food did not inspire us much,” said Roy, who works in a bank.
 
 Some bar owners said the ban will not have the desired affect for which it has been enforced. “Truck drivers cannot afford to drink and eat at such bars. We only get very occasional lorry drivers who come here. Our business mostly thrives on tourists, families on long drives and business travellers. They consume alcohol in moderation,” said Polan Das of Nirala Bar on Jessore Road near Barasat. The order has resulted in 28 workers in his bar losing their job. “It is not economically viable to run the place only for food. I won’t be able to pay salary and wages to so many people,’ said Das.
 
 Some bars tried to buck the trend and keep open just to serve food but they were in for some trouble from different a quarter. “Many guests came and demanded we serve alcohol. When we told them we cannot, they insisted. It gave rise to such unpleasant situation that we decided to shut down Sunday onwards,” said Kajal Sinha, owner of Moonlight on Kalyani expressway near Ghola.
 
