Chennai: Sangeetha Cherian, 34, wants to admit her daughter in a ‘high-scale’ school. But, many parents like her are struggling with the increasing expenses of fees, books, coaching, etc. The school education loans provided by private companies is now trying to wedge its way into the mainstream to support parents who get the education they desire for their children.

 “We are willing to pay extra if it gives our child options to explore. We want to pursue the option of an international school which is not in our budget,” says Sangeetha, who is considering to go in for a school loan. 
 
 For instance, Bajaj Finserv in a tie-up with School Connects, an education-aid platform, has recently come out with a simple process to avail specialised loans for school bills. Offering a 5-minute online procedure, a parent is asked to input some details like Aadhar/passport credentials, pan number and bank statement to initiate the loan procedure which can be paid on an EMI basis.
 
 “The loan will cover everything from kindergarten to Class XII school fee, skill development, coaching classes etc with a comparable interest rate,” according to a statement by SchoolConnects.in. 
 
 Some agencies like Shiksha Finance have been in the space for three years now, offering loans to lower and mid-income families. While the higher-expense school fall in one end of the spectrum, Shiksha looks at the other end of the spectrum as well “to curb the issue of student dropouts”. Partnering with schools and corporate agencies, the startup has takers from government-affiliated schools too. While this provides an accessible solution for many, some experts think that this may not be a healthy trend.
 
 “What we need is qualitative government education, not stop-gap solutions that will only allow education to become a bigger marketplace,” says Srinivasan, founder of Prime Point Magazine, who handles edu-loan issues. 
 
 He explains that while higher-education loans have legal guidelines that hold private entities in check, it is not the case with these new breed of loans.
 
 
