BAREILLY: Though the police have made the first arrest in the case of the   of  , his family back home in Badaun is disappointed as there is still no clue on his whereabouts.
 
  His father, Nafees Ahmed, said that the family was getting ransom calls for a fortnight and had informed police about it. “We received ransom calls for 15 days, with the last call on January 17. As with any other update, we informed the police about this as well. However, although the police arrested the person, there is still no clue about the whereabouts of my eldest son,” said Nafees, a heart patient who is mostly bedridden these days.
  
  After the family received a ransom demand of Rs 20 lakh for Najeeb’s release, Delhi police traced the call to   in Uttar Pradesh and arrested a man on Saturday. The man, who was brought to Delhi the same day and put through sustained interrogation, has been identified as Shamim alias Shiv Kumar. He had a criminal record, cops claimed, adding it was unclear if he had abducted Najeeb. During initial questioning, Shamim denied any link with the case, telling the cops that he was merely playing a prank by calling up the student's family.
  
  “My wife,  , is in Delhi for over three months now and she says she will be back only after getting news about Najeeb. She has met almost all politicians who claimed that they are with us but nobody is doing anything to trace him. No official is concerned that my son has been missing for over three months now. We are restless and don’t know which door to knock to find help for finding Najeeb,” said Nafees, a carpenter by profession.
  
  The family of the 27-year-old student is in complete disarray. They point out that   has had her entire academic year wasted. “She has not been able to go to school for over three months as she has to take care of me. She won’t be able to write her board exams and will have to repeat the class next year,” said Nafees.
  
  Najeeb's younger brother, Mujeeb, who has been staying with their mother in Delhi for the past two months, had landed a job with a private company in Rajasthan as a geologist but could not accept the offer as he has to assist his mother in the search for Najeeb. Younger brother Haseeb said he had to appear for his BTech exams for which he could hardly prepare.
  
  “Our family has been totally shattered but we are hopeful that he will return home,” added Najeeb’s father.
