CHENNAI:   is going to be a hub for the   when   takes over services from   as part of a merger of the two networks mooted a few years ago for   .

 Riding comfort, quality of coaches and frequency of services are set to improve on the route as CMRL will be able to order new rakes from Integral Coach Factory (ICF) when required, unlike the constraint faced by Southern Railway which had to wait for coaches to be allotted by the railway board.
 
 Southern Railway has given a proposal to CMRL including the finer details of how the merger can be taken forward. A senior railway official said CMRL appointed a consultant for studying the proposal and would soon be discussing the nitty-gritties with the railways.
 
 Southern Railway's maintenance shed in Velachery will be handed over to CMRL for a fee and operation of motormen, guards and station masters will be gradually separated from the railways.
 
 Initially, the rolling stock (coaches) will be provided by railways, but in due course CMRL can place its own order with ICF.
 
 A few more lines may have to be laid at Fort station to accommodate stabling lines to make it a terminal. This may not be a problem going by the way CMRL has been acquiring land for the project, an official said.
 
 The railway zone has suggested maintenance and sharing of over-head electric (OHE) cables. The OHE will be separated exclusive ly for running e metro rail's MRTS services.
 
 CMRL will also be free to put in place food joints, shopping plazas and parking space at MRTS stations currently lying unused due to limited response from contractors, officials said.
 
 In all likelihood, MRTS might be handed over after the completion of last 500m of Velachery-St Thomas Mount stretch held up by problems over land acquisition issues. “The ultimate aim of this merger is to have a single ticketing system for all modes of transport for seamless travel across the city,“ the railway official said.
 
 This is likely to lead to an increase in fare. A CMRL official said that the ticket cost could go up. “In place of `75, they are charging `10. This may go up,“ he added.
 
 He also said that Fort and North Beach stations would be originating stations and the plan was to take over the maintenance yard in Velachery , buy new trains and bring in more people on deputation from the railways to run them.
 
 The merger of MRTS with CMRL was part of the original plan made for metro rail in 2008-09.
 
 (With inputs from U Tejonmayam.)
 
