HYDERABAD: Questioning the way duties are assigned at   (JNVs), teachers and alumni have alleged that students are being assigned manual work based on their gender, be it roti making, digging holes to plant saplings or watering plants.

 At JNVs, students get marks for taking part in ‘socially useful project work’ and house duties. The tasks, which are mandatory, include cooking, serving, cleaning, and gardening. 
 
 “Although we never realised at that age that they (duties assigned) are discriminating, we noticed that girls were always assigned ‘soft jobs’ such as watering plants, whereas we were asked to do tasks that require more of physical strength,” said Srinivas M, an alumni of JNV  . 
 
 “Every Sunday we use to play cricket on campus and girls used to prepare breakfast in the kitchen. As far as I remember, there were no boys in the cooking team,” said Srinivas, who passed 12th in the year 2006. 
 
 Prashanthi S, who was the school captain of the same batch, agreed that there may have been some discrimination, but said no one saw it that way. “It’s true that we were assigned soft jobs, but we never took it in a wrong way. There used to be thorns in the garden and as girls are considered ‘soft’ we were never asked to work there. In academics or sports, no such discrimination was shown,” said Prashanthi. 
 
 With voices being raised regarding discrimination, teachers have decided to challenge the allocation of manual duties and took this up as one of their resolutions on January 22 at the 2nd Telangana State Conference. “The   (Ainvsa) unanimously resolved to demand that the   (NVS) instruct the Vidyalayas to exempt girl children from gender-biased work. Navodaya Vidyalayas should set an example by stopping discrimination in the allotment of certain manual duties to the girl child alone such as sweeping, roti-making, among other such activities,” said  , president, Telangana state executive body.
 
 Officials of NVS, for their part, refused to accept that there was any discrimination in assigning tasks and said that students could choose any task they want. “What’s wrong with girls helping cooks in the kitchen to make breakfasts on Sundays? These tasks are created so that students have all-round development. Also we never said that boys can’t be part of cooking teams. All tasks are open to everyone,” said A Y Reddy, deputy commissioner, NVS, Telangana. 
 
 It’s true that we were assigned soft jobs, but we never took it in a wrong way. There used to be thorns in the garden and as girls are considered ‘soft’ we were never asked to work there. In academics or sports, no such discrimination was shown.
 
