AGRA: In yet another celebratory firing, a youth was killed with a stray bullet on Monday late night in  .
 
 Identified as  , the 22-year-old youth of Morena district in   had come to attend the engagement ceremony of his cousin brother   in Gardenpul village of   police jurisdiction.
  
 According to police, the victim suffered a thigh injury and died on his way to the hospital due to excessive bleeding.
  
 Anil Kumar station officer of Nagla Singhi said, “It was an unfortunate incident. The youth himself was supposed to get married on May 15, but succumbed to bullet injury.”
  
 “An FIR has been lodged against the bride’s relative, identified as Brij Lal, who fired the shot during celebration from his licensed weapon. The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder),” he said.
  
 On Saturday in celebratory firing, an eight–year-old boy was killed in Ganjdundwara area of Kasganj, while 22-year-old youth was injured with bullet pellet in Uttar police jurisdiction of Firozabad district.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy inspector general of police for Agra range Mahesh Kumar Mishra said, “We have already instructed the station officers of all the police station to arrest the accused in minimum possible time and impound the weapon. Strict measures are being taken to ensure zero celebratory firing. In majority of the cases, the accused are found to be using country-made weapons.”
 
 In last 13 months, 10 casualties have been reported in celebratory firing from Agra zone (which includes eight districts).
 
 In 2013, the Lucknow bench of   ordered that no fresh arms licenses will be issued in the state. The court, however, said such license could be issued in exceptional cases only to applicants seeking it under family heirloom policy or those who are victims of crime and have a genuine need for weapons in the opinion of the district magistrate.
  
 The court had observed that the state has a 2.13 lakh-strong police force which has 2.25 lakh weapons with it, whereas the state had issued 11.23 lakh arms licenses.
 
