PANAJI: Fans turning up at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda for the Group C opening round match of the   World Cup between Germany and Costa Rica on October 7 will be surprised with what they see.
 
  A swanky, fresh stadium will greet them; the floodlights will shine brighter than ever before and the experience of watching a   match at the stadium will be far more comfortable. Even safer.
  
  Fifa, the governing body for world football, had told the Sports Authority of Goa, which owns the stadium, to ensure that safety norms are met. That has been duly done with the installation of cameras and other electronic equipment, although it has meant that the stadium capacity has been reduced from 19,000 to approximately 16,000.
  
  Once the mega event concludes, the seating will be back to its original capacity ahead of the Indian Super League.
  
  Built in a record six-month period by the then sports minister Francisco Monte Cruz in 1989, the Nehru Stadium was renovated for the Lusofonia Games 2014. Now, two additional dressing rooms have been added to accommodate four teams and facilitate two matches a day.
  
  There are also two new referee’s dressing rooms and a new press conference room. The tribune on the west has been extended and work on all spectator areas is complete. Fifa has given uttermost importance to safety and suggested new safe evacuation gates.
  
  “We have installed two new additional floodlight towers which are 56 metres in height and upgraded all towers with 2,400 lux, 400 more from the current Fifa specifications,” said chief engineer of SAG JN Chimulkar.
  
  The new floodlights came at a cost of Rs 3 crore. The playing surface, too, has been re-laid with surface drainage and sprinklers. Fifa had sanctioned Rs 6.55 crore for the civil work at the Fatorda stadium, leaving the state government to contribute approximately Rs 20 crore for the upgradation of other training venues at Utorda, Benaulim, Tilak Maidan in Vasco and GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim.
  
  “Fifa is satisfied with our work,” said Chimulkar.
  
  The Benaulim ground, a training venue during the Lusofonia Games, has floodlights, installed at an estimated cost of Rs 70 lakh. It also includes a new pitch with drainage system, sump well, pumping station, dressing rooms, all at a cost of Rs 50 lakh.
  
  Utorda, a relatively new venue, has seen works costing Rs 2.80 crore. Along with floodlights, Utorda has an additional dressing room, media room and medical room.
  
  Once the World Cup is over, the venues will be handed over to the respective panchayats or reputed clubs for a minimum five-year period. Clubs have shown interest to acquire grounds at Benaulim and Utorda.
  
  Goa will host a total of nine matches including a quarterfinal on October 21 at Fatorda.
