NEW DELHI: The sale of forms for   in  ,   in Delhi is all set to begin from Monday and parents are in full preparation for the three-month race. Meanwhile, schools have begun uploading their seat structure and criteria on their websites, though some schools still had no updates till late on Sunday.

 Most popular schools have stuck to the guidelines, like maintaining the number of seats reserved for entrylevel classes in accordance with three previous sessions, giving a proper breakup of the seats as per the requirements.
 
 Even though management quota has been brought back for addition of points in the criteria, several schools have decided to forego it, meanwhile, adding points for wards of staff.
 
 Some of the popular schools like Springdales, Dhaula Kuan, have stuck to the same procedure and criteria, like points for girl child, single parent, wards or alumni, neighbourhood and sibling.
 
 “We have kept it like it was last year and have proposed no fee hikes either. We are ready to start the process from January 2,” said Jyoti Bose, principal of the school.
 
 The admission process will begin on January 2 with the sale of forms in some schools and opening of online applications for others. The sale of application forms in most schools will start around 9am until noon. Schools that are starting application process online expect a rush on the servers for the first few days, but they claim to be prepared for it.
 
 “We have a bit of digging going on outside the school,but our teams are ready to tackle any technical issues once the process starts,” added Bose.
 
 The last date of submission of forms is January 23, following which schools will start uploading details of general category applicants on January 31 and points tally for each candidate on February 6.
 
 The first list of selected candidates will be released on February 15. The next two days, February 16 and 17, have been set aside for resolution of queries that parents might have about the points allotted to their wards. The admission process will end on March 31.
 
 The current set of admission process is for 1,300 schools that are on private land and receive no government aid.
 
 Around 298 schools built on public land are still waiting for guidelines and schedule notifications to begin the admission process.
 
