BENGALURU: In the run up to 2018 assembly elections, the   has chalked out election campaign responsibilities for senior state party leaders and divided leadership into three separate committees.

 While it is uncertain whether the division of campaign responsibilities was based on popularity of the leader in every aspect or on their strategic importance, several key leaders have been drafted by the party in booth level campaign committee, conventional media campaign committee and the unconventional (social media) campaign committee.
 
 Overall, 64 key BJP leaders have been given the responsibilities for spearheading the party campaign. While experienced leaders like S M Krishna, Aravind Limbavali, S   along with youngsters Prathap Simha, Ganesh Karnik and others have been brackted under the social media campaigning committee; Nalin Kumar Kateel, C T Ravi, Vishveshvara Hegde Kageri and others have been added under the booth level campaign committee.
 
 For the conventional media campaigning, the BJP has given the responsibilities to H N  , P C Mohan, K S Eshwarappa, Jagadish Shettar and others. Speculation was rife that at Gowda would be heading the election campaign panel , adding fuel to the ongoing rift between the B S Yeddyurappa and B L Santosh camps within the state leadership.
 
 According to party sources, while Gowda may be given a prominent role ahead of the polls it may also play into the hands of the party detractors who are pegging him as a Vokkaliga against the party state president B S Yeddyurappa, a Lingayat.
 
 “We would expect the national leadership to try and even out the responsibilities between the two camps for ensuring that there is no upper hand for either Santosh or Yeddyurappa,” said a party insider.
 
 Reacting to the possibility of heading the election campaign committee, Gowda said: “I have not received any formal communication with regard to the responsibilities of chairmanship. I will gladly take any position the party gives me.”
 
 It is expected that the final decision on the chairman for the election campaign will be taken at the national executive committee scheduled on Monday.
 
