Chandigarh: Problem of stray dog is not showing any sign to end any soon as the Zirakpur municipal corporation has not yet started their sterilization process. 

 The residents are constantly living under the threat of getting bitten by the dogs who own the streets in their area. Local welfare association members said it has become difficult for the citizens to step out of their houses due to a large number of   on the roads.
 
 House owners also said the problem of stray dog has become so dangerous that senior citizens and children hesitate in moving out without any supervision as dogs often attack people walking on roads or driving two- wheelers.
 
 In some parts of the area the situation is worse as the dogs gather around street food shops in hope of getting food and attack people visiting the food joints.
 
 Satyam Pandey, a resident, said, “I literally had to save my life, after dogs started chasing me barely few feet away from my house. Since, then I carry a stick with me to scare them away.
 
 Navjit Singh, president of maya fitness phase 1 resident welfare said, “Stray dog menace have become a persisting problem. People are scared to move out on roads at night. Commuters on two-wheelers find it tough to pass through the roads.”
 
 The meat shops in Zirakpur remain surrounded by a huge number of dogs, complained the residents. Divakar Asthana, a resident said, “These dogs outside the meat shops turn ferocious and easily attack anyone.”
 
 Residents further said there have been drives by municipal corporation to catch the dogs and relocate them. But after a few weeks more dogs come in the area.
 
 Nidhi Kannaujia, a resident, said, “I always fear my kids being bitten by dogs as, they go out to play in parks. Since we cannot accompany them every time the constant pressure can always be felt.”
 
 Another resident Renu Prakash said, “Dogs too have the right to live but, the problem begins when people get attacked by them. The authorities must take the sterilization process more seriously so that the humans can also be saved, while the animals too do not get hurt or beaten up.”
 
 Stray dogs gather around garbage dump and residential colonies, while some residents also offer them food. Dalbir Randhawa, a resident, said, “People offer food for dogs, which causes inconvenience to others. I wish there can be shelter homes for these dogs where they can be kept in safe environment and get food to eat. People too should help government in providing food to the stray dogs.”
 
 
