AHMEDABAD: C Rangarajan, former governor of the   (RBI) who played a pivotal role in the economic reforms of 1991, said that the demonetization of PM Narendra Modi has only attacked unaccounted income and that too only in cash form.

 Speaking at the sidelines of his lecture: “Journey of India’s Reforms” at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), Rangarajan said demonetization measure does not prevent further accumulation of unaccounted money.
 
  To prevent the flow of unaccounted income into the Indian economy, Rangarajan suggested, “There are three areas in which further action will be needed. One, there must be greater transparency in the government and reduction in discretion as far as possible in decisions taken by government officials. Two, we need to bring about changes in tax administration. Thirdly, we need to look at measures that can be done in order to alter the financing of political parties in elections.”
 
 Rangarajan hailed GST as a tax reform and said that initially it will look difficult to implement, but it will bring long-term benefits. “If GST is implemented in a systematic way, all transactions will get recorded and it can lead to a reduction of unaccounted income,” he said.
 
 To a query about more stringent norms for people of developing countries set by developed economies, Rangarajan said, “There is a growing tendency towards protection in advanced economies these days. They feel jobs have been taken away from their countries and these have been seized by developing economies. It is going to be a difficult period ahead of us. There are sufficient safeguards even in these countries, which will not allow them to do so, as they are all members of WTO.”
 
 “Developed countries will realize pursuing such a policy will undercut their own country. It is a kind of charity that immigrants in those country have helped them grow. Therefore the idea that shutting them off will help the economy grow faster is a wrong idea,” added Rangarajan.
 
