LUCKNOW: With the arrest of three men,   claimed to have solved the March 5   at   in  .

 Those arrested were identified as Raj Bahadur Lodh and Hari Vilas Singh, both of Rae Bareli, and Manish Awasthi of Sitapur who had hidden the looted gold at his house and is a relative of prime suspect Rahul Dixit. They were arrested from a toll booth in Nigohan on Wednesday. Police also recovered 2.8 kg gold from them.
 
 Police also claimed that the robber duo was also involved in loot at a jewellers’ on Faizabad road on June 12, 2016, and one in Allahabad on February 27 this year. The men have confessed to their crime during interrogation. They disclosed that the others involved in the Chowk loot were Abhay Singh aka Vipin, Vikas Shukla aka Vinay, Shanu, Rahul Dixit and Ashish Singh. 
 
 Police got a tip off from Rae Bareli police who had found out from informers that Raj Bahadur and Hari Vilas had done a ‘big job’ a few days ago. Giving details of the operation, ASP (crime) Sanjay Kumar said probe revealed that a regular at Praveen Rastogi’s shop had tipped off the miscreants. 
 
 The miscreants then conducted a recce of the shop for three days before executing the crime. On the day of the loot, they reached the market on three bikes and split in groups. They reached the shop one after one and committed dacoity while holding the shop owner Praveen, his son Jitanshu and the staff and customer, at gunpoint. They also attacked Praveen with the pistol butt and shot at Jitanshu.
 
 When they were fleeing, one of the bikes developed a snag and they had to leave it in Amberganj locality of Thakurganj. The miscreants met at a spot from where Raj Bahadur and Hari Vilas were asked to leave for their home district and were given Rs 2,000 as travel expense. The team, led by Abhay Singh and Rahul, later parted ways after distributing the gold and silver ornaments among themselves. Rahul hid his share at his relative’s house.
 
 ASP (west) Jaiprakash said the gang always struck on a Sunday and after loot, dispersed to different districts. 
 
 
