How does one connect neuroscience and and adolescence psychiatry to music and creative arts? UK citizen, Dr  , who is currently in her hometown Bengaluru seems to have found a rather interesting connection between these drastically different subjects. Gearing up for the unique Live Analysis UK tour that highlights the same, she speaks to us about what went into her research.
“The tour format is intended to promote and showcase a harmonious fusion/balance between neuroscience and the creative arts for healthier minds, bodies and societies. The tour is unique in format and presentation as it incorporates a myriad diverse creative and scientific areas (Music, Art, Neuroscience, Medicine, Mental Health), alongside an amalgamation of Neuroscience and the creative arts. The events are all geared around   Awareness week, the UK Medical   Federation Centenary Celebrations and as part of the UK-India year of Culture 2017,” states Dr Ramya, who is a child and adolescent psychiatrist, as well as ab accomplished artist and musician. Aptly titled CAPE Youth: Creative Arts for Processing Emotions for young people, the aim of her album that will be showcased at the tour is neuroscience meets music for mental health and emotional well-being.
 The collaboration between the two varied fields began on a personal level. She explains, “This was inspired by my own experiences of finding music and art to be such effective outlets for stress after a long day in hospital - singing with my children or sitting cross legged on the floor doing an artwork with them. I used to listen to live piano recitals in the corridors of my alma mater (St Thomas Hospital, London) or stop for a minute to admire colourful artwork at the pediatric ward wall murals while rushing between patients. My exhaustion would slip away and my hassled brows would relax. It reminded me of the positive nature of music and art on my life and within healthcare environments. As a specialist in child and adolescent psychiatry on the UK’ s National Health Service, I became more and more interested in using creative arts to support emotional management in young people after an adolescent under my care, who was susceptible to emotional regulation difficulties and self-harming by cutting and overdosing, was able to use art and music as an adaptive and effective strategy under stress. We were able to support her transition from school truanting and drug use to a place in a reputed art school and were delighted with her sustained improvement. So, with the support of my research team, I set about bridging the gap between neuroscience and the creative arts to support vulnerable and focused populations like children and young people.”
 Each of the songs on the album, composed and recorded with local musicians in Bengaluru, identify, process and address an emotion that a child or adolescent is prone to. “For instance, the songs address emotions like anger, disgust, sadness, etc. All it takes is for one to plug on their earphones and listen and the music will do the rest. This gives one the advantage of choosing to remain aloof and elusive while they actually help themselves on an emotional level,” explains Dr Ramya. The music is a collaboration with Bengaluru artists: Charan Rao, Karthik Vydhatri, Shrinidhi Katti, Ganesh Prasad, Vijay Krishna\, Sharan and Adil Nadaf. 
 As part of the upcoming tour, Dr Ramya plans to travel along with these musicians — who have been part of the album —- to London, Nottingham, Liverpool, Rotherham/Doncaster and Basingstoke, where they will again collaborate and perform a fusion of classical and folk to popular film music with local musicians from each of these places. Also a part of the tour is an interesting art exhibition, showcasing Dr Ramya’ s works that also depict mental health and emotions among individuals across time and age. 
 
