GURGAON: When 27-year-old Sudha’s parents came to visit her at her home in   on late Friday evening, they were shocked to find their   with her   and a dupatta tied tightly around her neck.

 Sudha’s parents have accused her husband Lakhan Singh (30) of murdering their daughter. An FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Rajendra Park police station and the police are conducting raids to nab Lakhan, who is missing since Friday night. 
 
 According to police, around 7pm on Friday, Sudha’s father   came to visit her at her home but found the house locked. He returned with his wife after some time and found that the door was still locked. He suspected something amiss and broke open the lock only to find his daughter covered in a quilt with her nose chopped off, blood oozing out from her ears and a dupatta tied around her neck. He informed the police about the incident. She was taken to hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead.
 
 The post mortem of the body was conducted on Saturday morning.
 
 SHO Ajaybir Singh said the victim could have died due to strangulation but the post-mortem report is still awaited.
 
 The police are on the lookout for Lakhan, who is missing since Friday night. “His phone is switched off. We have dispatched a team to Pilibhit to hunt him down,” said sub-inspector Kundan Lal.
 
 Sudha was a native of Bareilly, UP and lived with her second husband Lakhan, originally from Pilibhit, also in UP. He works as a security guard in a private company in Gurgaon.
 
 Dharm Prakash told the police, “My wife and I shifted to Gurgaon 7 months ago in search of a better livelihood. It was then that we came to know that Lakhan had been mistreating and harassing Sudha.”
 
 The victim got married to Lakhan a year ago. She has two children from her first marriage, who live with Sudha’s father. Sudha and Lakhan were living in a room .
 
 Neighbours told the police that Lakhan and Sudha starting living on the first floor of the house in Surat Magar Phase II around 2 months ago. 
 
 The landlady told TOI that the couple used to have fights over trivial issues, but she had not heard them have a serious fight. Since there was a separate entrance to their room, the owners did not interfere in their life.
 
 "I was not at home when the incident took place. Had the parents not come to visit Sudha, we would not have cme to know about it for some days,” said the landlord, who did not wish to be named.
 
