Sohail Khan's designer-wife  's star-studded birthday bash in Bandra on Thursday brought together several couples, some estranged and some elusive.

 Love was in the air and spirits were running high at Seema Khan's grand birthday bash organised by husband   at a fine dining, garden restaurant in Bandra. On Thursday night, many couples came out in the open to raise a cheer to the birthday girl. Earlier in the day, Sohail had taken his wife off for a private lunch and this one was for two only.
 Arbaaz Khan and Malaika Arora who separated in March 2016 and divorced last December, were cordial with each other and their parents -Arbaaz's father, Salim Khan, mother Salma and stepmother Helen and Malaika's parents Anil and Joyce Arora. Their son, Arhaan, was also around and as the party progressed, they were seen shaking a leg together too leaving onlookers wondering if the couple is back. Malaika channelled her inner Kourtney Kardashian in a bold tube top and flared striped pants.
 
 Seema's brother Bunty Sajdeh and his actress-girlfriend Sonakshi Sinha arrived separately but stayed close and left together. Evidently, this match has the Khan-daan's blessings with Sona ready to take off on a tour to Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand with her first co-star, the Dabangg Salman Khan.
 
 Salman Khan drove up and quickly ducked inside where he joined his Romanian actress-singer-girlfriend, Iulia Vantur, looking chic in a pant-suit. Iulia had driven up with Salman's mother.
 
 Making a rare appearance, Tania Doel, dressed in white like husband Bobby, were happy to pose for the shutterbugs and were then engrossed in deep conversation with Salman. Meanwhile, Iulia posed for pictures with her beau's sisters, Arpita and Alivra, as well as Malaika's sister Amrita Arora who was planting kisses on husband Shakeel Ladak. Salma left within half an hour and Iulia got to leave with Salman later in the night.
 
 Karisma Kapoor turned up solo sans steady date Sandeep Toshniwal. She was happy to smile for selfies, including one with her Judwaa-co-star, Salman. Sister Kareena couldn't make it because she is busy prepping for her first stage performance post her pregnancy.
 
 Actor Mohit Marwah arrived with, stayed close to and left with stylist and rumoured girlfriend Antara Motiwala.Former lovers, Dino Morea and Nandita Mahtani, smiled politely but stayed on opposite sides of the room. Dino's bandaged hand caught the eye and in response to concerned queries the actor quipped with a naughty twinkle, “I've been playing a lot of games lately.“
 
 Also present at the bash that went on till 2 am were filmmakers Karan Johar, Abhishek Kapoor with wife Pragya, veteran actor Danny Denzongpa's son, Rinzing, TV actor Karan Tacker, socialite Anu Dewan, fitness-enthusiast Deanne Pandey, singer Kanika Kapoor and the Gen-X kids, Sanjay and Maheep Kapoor's daughter, Shanaya, and Chunky and Bhavna Pandey's daughter, Ananya, and Sohail's 15-year-old-son Nirvan.
 
 When the restaurant announced that it was time to pull down the shutters, the Khan kids were packed off home with their chauffeurs, while Chunky invited the other guests to his house to party.Sanjay was the first to exclaim, “Yes!“
 
 
  
 
