LUCKNOW: “The way volunteers of the Bhim Army had covered their faces to hide their identity and indulged in forceful stone-pelting on the police during their agitations indicated that they were trained like   stone-pelters, who attack Army jawans and Police,” says the report of UP police and intelligence department about the dalit outfit. The report was prepared after the role of the outfit in   violence came to light.

 However, the report also highlights the growing popularity of the outfit which also known as   among the dalits in western UP districts, Uttarakhand , Punjab and Haryana. Its convenor   is earning sympathy and support from a wider sections of the dalit community, which is also ready for extending financial support, says the report, adding the expansion of the Bhim Sena is a cause of concern and its sympathizers have to be under surveillance.
 
 The report mentions that Chandra Shekhar’s rise is not an overnight phenomenon and he has been working in the community for over five years, ‘fighting against the upper caste atrocities in the region’. It was in 2008-09 that he had challenged the upper caste, mainly Rajput students, over a dispute over drinking water at AHP Inter college in Saharanpur.
 
 This college had two separate water taps — one for dalits and the other for upper castes, where dalits were not allowed to drink water. Chandra Shekhar challenged this discriminatory practice and forced the college management to have only one tap for all students irrespective of their castes, though the incident created a rift between the members of the two castes, the report says.
 
 Since then, Chandra Shekhar continued to fight for dalits’ cause. Meanwhile, states the report, another dalit activist —   of Chutmal town of the district — was already planning to raise a Shiv Sena-type organization and when he spotted potential in Chandra Shekhar, he cultivated him as the leader of the Bhim Amry, which remains an unregistered organization till date.
 
 Chandra Shekhar prefers to be called as ‘Ravan’ and has many facebook IDs. Although underground mobilisation of volunteers for the Bhim Army has been going on for over three years, it was on April 17, 2016 when it hit the headlines when Rajputs stalled the marriage procession of dalits and did not allow it to pass through the upper caste-dominated colony in Dariyapur village in Nanauta police station in Saharanpur, the report recounts.
 
 A few days later, dalits put up a hoarding “Jai Bhim, Jai Bharat, the Great Chamar Gharkauli” at the Gharkauli village entrance causing tension between the dalits and Rajputs. The police painted the board black, but it triggered tension and clashes which was another opportunity for Chandra Shekhar to flex his muscle and establish his leadership in the Bhim Army. 
 
 It again hit the headlines early this month when its members objected to a procession on the occasion of   by Rajputs. The Bhim Sena has more than 7,000 active members who are mobilising support for the organization.
 
 The report also suggests ways to contain this organisation and demolish its network. “Cases related to atrocities against dalits must be addressed immediately and objectively so that the Bhim Army leaders don’t get the opportunity to exploit the situation in their favour,” it says.
 
 Another recommendation of the intelligence sleuths is strict action against the office-bearers of the outfit in case they violate law of the land. “All the key functionaries and members should be put on mobile surveillance to have an eye on their activities. Besides, strict vigil should be kept on those funding the organisation,” it says.
 
 
