Nagpur/Mumbai: The state   board is in the final stages of approving the new Class IX   curriculum following the scrapping of the optional general math subject.

 State board chairman   said, the new curriculum will include content from general math subject to ensure that no student is inconvenienced from the change in policy. “Very soon the curriculum will be finalized as the academic session starts from June 15,” Mhamane told TOI.
 
 The general math subject was introduced in 2008 as an option from Class IX, specifically for students who found   and geometry tough. It was a simpler version which focused mostly on arithmetic that had practical use in day-to-day life.
 
 Mhamane said, “In math part one, we will include portion of the general math subject. The weightage to be given to general math in the new curriculum is still under discussion. There won’t be any change to the marking scheme and hence the internal marks will be 20. Both parts will be of 40 marks each.”
 
 The board is revising its evaluation scheme to focus on students ‘understanding the concept’, but the chairman did not provide specifics on how this will work. “We will share the details soon. We are working on what is called the blueprint for evaluation and it will get finalized soon,” said Mhamane.
 
 However, both teachers and parents are unhappy with the idea to scrap general math and dumbing down the regular math. “Keeping the option open to for general math is a better idea. This way, students who cannot do higher level of the subject can opt for general math and those who have the aptitude for math have a challenging subject on offer,” said a teacher.
 
 Parents feel that the higher level math is important for further classes. “Algebra and Geometry prepared students for entrance tests and other competitive exams. If parts of the subject are made easier, it would only put students at a disadvantage as compared to other boards,” said Rajan Shah, father of a class VIII student.
 
 (With inputs from Vinamrata Borwankar)
 
