JAIPUR: Apathy on part of   has bereft thousands of   of   universities in   from their   

 In absence of administrative orders from agriculture and finance departments, directing university administration to release pension and other benefits, about 1,300 retired employees are severely affected. 
 
 According to former employees, it was decided that post bifurcation of Swami Keshwa Nand Rajasthan Agriculture University (SKNRAU), Bikaner, the newly formed   (SKNAU), Jobner. Agriculture University, Kota and Jodhpur will take care of post-retirement benefits of its employees. 
 
 “Rajasthan had two agriculture universities but in 2013, three more created from the existing two. Later in 2016 it was decided that each university, new and old, will release pension to all the employees entitled under pension regulation, 1990” said HS Cheema, vice president of teacher’s association of SKNAU. 
 
 Cheema claimed that despite this decision the three new universities are not releasing pensions to employees that have retired from there. “Management derelict from its duty mentioning that they have no orders from finance or agriculture department” added Cheema. Finance secretary, PS Mehra could not be reached when contacted. 
 
 Association had also given representation to the chief secretary, OP Meena who according the affected employees was apathetic. Similarly, principal secretary, Neel Kamal Darbari refused to take any action in this regard when association asked her to intervene. 
 
 Retired employees of SKNAU, Jobner are not getting their pension and other benefits since last 18 months. No body seems to be serious about our condition. The meeting held in February was headed by principal secretary finance, PS Mehra. Still finance department is not issuing the required administrative orders” added Cheema. 
 
 Other benefits like gratuity and leave encashment too have not been disbursed to the employees. However, the management has asked the retired employees to pay their tax deducted at source (TDS) in advance for 12 months on their pensions.
 
 
