PATNA: Contrary to the state government’s affidavit in the   on Friday that more than 51,000 FIRs have been uploaded to the   ( ) of Bihar website and people could see it at the click of a mouse, the site is still not accessible as its show error. 

 As per the Supreme Court order, all the FIRs and details of arrested persons should be made available in the public domain. In that context, the Patna high court, while hearing a writ petition filed by one Basant Kumar Chaudhary, had sought the status of the SCRB and could the FIRs be seen by typing the name of the accused.
 
 When TOI pointed out the fact to principal additional advocate general   on Saturday, he said efforts were being made to upgrade the SCRB website, which was being run through a private server. 
 
 Though the central government’s Crime and   and System (CCTNS) project aims at making the country’s every police station online and modernise the police forces, the SCRB of Bihar remains neglected. The SCRB is supposed to maintain online records of FIRs, arrested persons, missing persons, unidentified bodies, vehicles, lost or recovered firearms and the overall state crime data of several years. These data are also mandatory to display in public domain.
 
 SP (SCRB) Khairuddin Ansari said there are some technical problems with the website which results in frequent malfunctioning. “To solve the problem, we are going to have a meeting with the private firm from Bangalore which maintains the website within next few days,” he said.
 
 SCRB sources said the soft copy of an FIR, with all other details, are uploaded from each district to the SCRB website within 24 hours. Every arrested person’s information is also displayed on the website. Records of 51,921 FIRs from November 15, 2016 to January 24 this year are available on the website. The SCRB site displays 20,832 arrests since February last year. “To assess it is major problem,” said a source. The website was launched in February 2016 but has never functioned properly since then. The problem has aggravated since November 15 last year when the district police concerned started uploading their FIRs to the SCRB website.
 
 According to the sources, the website has crashed several times in the last few months as it is getting data-heavy and information is not displayed in public domain. They said the website server is located in Bangalore and despite several requests, the state government failed to set up the server in Bihar. Moreover, the state government or the state police headquarters never tried to make people aware of the SCRB’s site. The bureau is running from a makeshift campus near Jagdeo Path at Bailey Road and has poor internet connectivity.
 
 In addition, the bureau is also facing lack of human resources and IT experts. “Incorporated on July 4, 1980, the a large number of sanctioned posts in SCRB are vacant,” sources said adding that against the requirement of 12 data entry operators, only two are available with the SCRB. No system analyst or typist is made available to the bureau which also prepares records for Union home ministry.
 
 
