KOLKATA: The mutwali -or the religious head of   of Prince   that looks after the affairs of Shaheed Tipu Sultan Mosque at Esplanade -has recommended the termination of the appointment of Noor-ur  , the imam of the mosque, for using the holy place to “propagate political views and use the position of imam for personal benefits“.

 Anwar Ali Shah, the great grandson of Prince   and mutwali of the Waqf Estate of Prince Gholam Mohammad, in a letter last month had written to the head of the managing committee for the “termination of service of janab Noor-ur Rahman Barkati from the post of imam“.
 
 “Yes, we have recommended the termination of the imam after he did not respond to our showcause notice that was sent to him in January . We wanted to know why he was using the mosque to make political statements. We decided to recommend his termination when he did not reply to our queries,“ Shah told TOI.
 
 When TOI contacted imam  , he said he had not rece ived any letter from the mutwali. “I have not seen any letter. I will respond only when I receive any communication. The mutwali has no right to terminate me as this post was constituted by the British government,“ he said. The mosque was built by Prince   in 1834, the youngest son of Tipu Sultan who was exiled to  .
 
 According to the Constitution, the head of the managing committee of the Waqf Estate of Prince Gholam Mohammad is required to work on the recommendations of the mutwali.
 
 In 1988, Shah's elder brother Asif (who was then the mutwali) had recommended the appointment of Barkati. A copy of the recommendation letter is with TOI. The mosque is vested with the Calcutta HC that constitutes the managing committee of the mosque, which has to seek an extension every five years. The last such committee was formed in 2002.
 
 A mutwali is the religious head of the mosque whose duties include everything from disbursing salaries to finalising all the religious programmes of the mosque.
 
 “We pay the imam a salary of Rs 10,000 after deducting the statutory benefits,“ said Shah.
 
 “The imam is also an individual who may have his own political and ideological beliefs. I respect them but we cannot allow him to use the mosque for such activities. The mosque is a place where devotees come to prayer.It cannot be diluted with politics,“ said Shah.
 
