LUCKNOW: The first signs of a transformation came on the evening of September 13, 2016. Sacked as the state SP chief by his father and party boss  , 
  with a letter of dismissal: sending his uncle Shivpal Yadav, the second most important man in his government, packing. 

 To those who watched the SP family feud, his 
  . "The SP patriarch suddenly seemed no longer in control," a senior SP official said. 
 
 The baggage of "four-and-a-half-CMs" had become stifling for Akhilesh, and it was perhaps time he shed it for good. As the clutch of Akhilesh supporters grew, the refrain too grew louder: "We respect Netaji, but Akhilesh bhaiyya is our leader." 
 
 Akhilesh, the football buff and Metallica-loving environment engineer, had in 2012, already set out to give 
  . The first signs came when SP invited applications for tickets, and Akhilesh not only looked at them personally, but also sat with seniors as they interviewed candidates. Tickets were denied to candidates with "hard-to-overlook" criminal antecedents. However, despite Akhilesh's objections, many candidates with criminal past were accommodated. 
 
 This 'swachchta' mission, half-done in 2012, led to the long-drawn battle that would culminate in upstaging Mulayam as SP president. But there were other factors that helped Akhilesh. If rising aspirations of a 'chacha' was one, the bigger anathema to Akhilesh was the return of Amar Singh 'uncle' to the party. 
 
 His relationship with Amar had been uneasy for more than a decade. "Akhilesh thinks Amar spelt doom for SP. He gave Netaji, a grassroots politician, his brush with Bollywood and five-star culture," a senior SP official said. 
 
 The battle-ready chief minister fought back. 
 
 Mulayam listened, but didn't relent. He upgraded Amar as SP secretary, sacked the CM as state SP chief, and finally ordered his ouster along with Ram Gopal Yadav. 
 
 Akhilesh decided to wrestle back. Cashing in on his popularity for brand Akhilesh, he took uncle Ram Gopal's help to stage the January 1 coup, unseating Mulayam and emerging as the "Samajwadi Sultan", with the majority backing his candidature as SP chief. 
 
