NOIDA: New year started with routine woes as RWA of sector 61 complained of broken water supply pipeline in front of SBI bank branch in sector 61 since last 3 days. "During supply time in the morning (6 am to 9 am) and evening (6 pm to 9 pm), the water spreads all over the surroundings. The problem recurs every two-three months as has happened in the past with no corrective measures from authority so far," said RWA president sector 61 Dr Virendra Singh.

 Singh has been asking authority officials for permanent solution to the problem, but officials claim inability due to ongoing construction work of the 3.80 km stretch elevated road on Master Plan II which will connect   in sector 61 to   cross roads near sector 24 of Noida. 
 
 Residents in the meantime rue wastage of water in the area. "It's the same area where a pipe had leaked couple of months ago. The temporary solution to the problem does not resolve the issue as huge amount of water gets wasted leaving the area flooded for commuters and residents alike," said Ravi Gupta a resident of the area.
 
 When contacted junior engineer Yogendra Kasana in charge of the area maintained that the problem was brought to his notice late Sunday night and measures are underway to resolve the problem. "I got to know about the problem on late Sunday evening. Repair work is underway which will take time till Tuesady morning. We will resume repair work in the problem area after the supply on Tuesday morning. The problem will be fixed by Tuesday evening as parts related to fixing the broken pipe are currently under repair," Kasana told TOI.
 
 According to Kasana a permanent solution to the problem can only be found once the construction of elevated road is completed. 
 
 The 3.80-km stretch, that connects Shopprix Mall in sector 61 to NTPC cross roads near sector 24 of Noida is part of 6-km overhead stretch of Master Plan road-II, that is currently being constructed from   (Sector 28) and will link Shopprix Mall (Sector 61). 
 
 The 415 crore project is expected to be complete by October 2017 and will ensure signal free traffic movement along the busy route besides providing commuters seamless travel to Ghaziabad, Delhi and Greater Noida.
 
