KOLKATA:  , or  , or  ? Whatever it is, the number of job offers — both domestic and overseas — in this year’s campus placements at   has come down, breaking previous years’ trend. 

 However, rupee has outstaged dollar and euro so far as the fattest offer is concerned this time. Though the name of the company is not yet known, the student who has bagged the offer will be placed in India. 
 
 According to sources at IIM-C, the highest package of Rs 70 lakh has pipped the highest international offer of Rs 63 lakh (90,000 euros). Fewer foreign companies turned up at   this year, perhaps a indication of uncertainties that cloud international recuitments in the wake of Britain’s impending exit from the   and Donald Trump’s nationalist rhetoric.
 
 However, both domestic and international offers are less than what the B-school has had in the past. In 2010, the highest salary had scaled Rs 1.6 crore from an international firm while an Indian company had made an offer of Rs 75 lakh. That year, the average salary had touched Rs 15.32 lakh.
 
 Cut to 2017 and the shadow of demonetisation appears to be still hanging low as IIM-C received fewer offers than last year. Against 499 offers in 2016, IIM-C received 474 offers this year. A placement officer, however, said the institute had placed all students. 
 
 “There are many factors that has resulted in a depressing placement scenario. Firstly, demonetisation has taken a toll on startups and manufacturing. Numbers have gone down sharply in both sectors. Though we may reap the benefit of demonetisation later, for job aspirants, it has wrecked havoc in the final placement,” said an IIM-C source.
 
 An official involved in the placement process said technology and B-school campuses were reeling under the heat of several negative factors. “We are relieved to have successfully concluded the final placement process for the 2017 PGDM batch in a record three days,” he said.
 
 Finance and analystics sectors accounted for the maximum number of recruitments. While firms from these sectors had recruited 27% of students last year, they have picked up 29% students this year. Among the top recruiters were Avendus, Edelweiss, Goldman Sachs and HSBC. Offers in the consulting sector has gone up marginally and accounted for 22% of recruitments. Top firms that made the offers were Accenture, AT Kearney, Bain, BCG and McKinsey.
 
 Fewer traditional companies are looking for students in general management and strategic roles. While firms like ABG, CK Birla, TAS and others made 18% of the offers last year, this year the offers were down to 15%. Offers from sales and marketing companies like HUL, ITC, P&G and Reckitt Benckiser contributed to 12% of the offers, a 3% decline against last year.
 
 Offers from e-commerce and IT companies have also dried up. Some of the new firms, mostly startups that had offered jobs last year, gave this year’s campus recruitment a miss. Companies like Amazon and Wipro have hired 14% of students, down from last year’s 19%.
 
 
