NEW DELHI: The confrontation between anaesthesia and   has started taking its toll on patients waiting for surgeries at the premier medical institute. Many of them have travelled from other states with the hope of getting the best treatment.

 “There are two operation theatres (OT) in the gynaecology division, which have been totally paralysed due to non-cooperation from anaesthesia resident doctors. Patients scheduled to undergo laparoscopic surgery for infertility treatment, ovarian cyst and endometrial cyst are crying foul due to the delay,” said a senior doctor, adding that emergency cases are being done with support from faculty members.
 
 On average, 8 to 10 surgeries are done daily in the maternity OT. But in the past six days, many surgeries had to be postponed or cancelled,” added another doctor.
 
 AIIMS’ deputy director (administration) V Srinivas told TOI that the issue of non-cooperation by anaesthesia residents had come to his knowledge in a recent meeting. “We have asked both the gynaecology and anaesthesia divisions to amicably solve the matter so that patients do not have to suffer,” he said.
 
 Rajbir Kaur, a nursing officer of the hospital, was admitted on January 16 for a normal delivery. She died due to certain lapses, identified by an internal committee, and her child was stillborn. In a rare action, the   administration recently terminated a senior resident (SR) of anaesthesiology, who was on duty, and issued a displeasure memorandum to an SR of gynaecology. A warning was issued to the JR of anaesthesiology who prepared the patient for surgery but later left under pressure from the residents of obstetrics and gynaecology.
 
 Now, both departments claim they have been unfairly targeted and want the order revoked. “The residents from obstetrics and gynaecology rushed into emergency caesarean section without proper preparation. It is their fault but anaesthesia residents have been acted upon. We will not accept this,” said a senior faculty from anaesthesia division. Several professors and resident doctors from the department have written to the Union health minister demanding his intervention in the matter.
 
 On Thursday, the resident doctors’ association of the institute met with the director, demanding reconsideration of action against their colleagues in the matter. “We have been told that our demand will be considered,” Dr  , general secretary of AIIMS RDA, said. 
 
 The gynaecology division is also protesting against issuance of a show-cause notice to its faculty in the alleged medical negligence case. “Poor patients are suffering in the fight between two departments. The management must look into the matter and solve it immediately,” said a patient.
 
 
