NEW DELHI: A   head constable was found   under with a bullet injury outside Vijay Vihar police station in outer Delhi on Wednesday night. The   had gone outside the station to smoke with a colleague after returning from a raid. The colleague claimed that the victim allegedly pulled out the service pistol from his holster and shot himself. However, cops registered a case of   after eyewitness versions contradicted this story.

 DCP (Rohini) Rishipal said that the incident was reported around 10.30pm when head constable Rajesh Saini (44) had called his colleague out to smoke. Police officers said that Saini had surrendered his own service weapon to the armoury while his colleague, head constable Deepender was carrying his pistol.
 
 According to head constable Satyawan, a gunshot was heard in the compound following which he and another policeman rushed outside. They found Saini lying in a pool of blood with Deepender holding his pistol in his hand. Family members of Saini allege that some eyewitnesses told them that an argument broke out between the two policemen during over calling him names for his moustache, due to which the cop had opened fire at him.
 
 Saini was rushed to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital where he died during treatment. The bullet had pierced through the policeman’s neck. The investigation has been handed over to the crime branch.
 
 “We have registered a case based on the complaint by the family member and have transfered the case for a fair probe,” said Rishipal. All the staff members of the police station are being questioned to establish the sequence of events.
 
 Saini’s son Nitin told TOI that his father had called him around 7.30pm on Wednesday evening after returning from a raid in the nearby JJ Colony. He had told him that he will be coming late at night. Family members say that there was no reason for Saini to take the extreme step.
 
 On Thursday morning, Saini’s family members along with other relatives and villagers gathered at the Vijay Vihar police station. “We were told that the CCTV cameras are not functioning and there was no one else present at the spot where the incident happened apart from the colleague whom we suspect,” said Nitin.
 
 Saini had joined the Delhi Police in 1999 as a constable and was earlier posted with the security unit. He was posted at the Vijay Vihar police station for the past two years.
 
 
