Kolkata: The   ( ), Kolkata, saw a flurry of activities on Friday — the last day to deposit specified bank notes (SBN) for Indian citizens who were abroad on work visa between November 9 and December 30 last year. Though some came out flashing smiles, majority were disappointed as they could not deposit the demonetized notes.

 Those who did not have the currency declaration form (CDF) supposed to have been obtained from the Customs on arrival in India were not entertained by RBI. Arman Riyaz, an instrument engineer, was lucky to have known the norms. He had collected the   on arrival in Kolkata on March 30 and deposited the lone 500-rupee note on Friday.
 
 “I am lucky. But there are others who do not know the rules. There should have been some mechanism at the immigration counters informing the fliers about the mandatory CDF on arrival. Many who were abroad, specially the unskilled workers, were not aware of it,” said the Garden Reach resident who was away in Kuwait for work.
 
 Steel pipe fitter   had to return with Rs 16,000 in banned notes that he came to deposit all the way from Gomoh in Jharkhand. Goswami was one of those who was unaware of the rules.
 
 “The notice put up near the RBI gates does not mention anything about the CDF. How could they create this confusion? I had visited RBI earlier to know the rules since my brother was returning from Dubai. Since no one told me about the CDF, my brother will end up losing almost Rs 80,000,” said   of Howrah.
 
 Indranil Roy, who arrived in Kolkata on March 12 from the US, was alerted by his family back home about the SBNs that he had with him. Roy, a merchant navy officer, on arrival spoke to immigration officials on the SBN worth Rs 4000 that he had with him and managed to get the CDF.
 
 “Thank God I asked the immigration officials, otherwise I would have ended up losing the money. I have deposited the notes. Now, I have to open an NRO (non resident ordinary) savings account where the money will be transferred,” said the Bhowanipore resident. But, several others, who were not abroad between November 9 and December 30, visited the RBI office on Friday too. But, learning a lesson from Thursday, police put up barricades in front of the RBI gates. Visitors were scanned and only those who had passports with immigration stamp of the date of their arrival in India were allowed entry.
 
 Apart from West Bengal, residents of neighbouring states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha also came knocking on RBI doors in Kolkata on Friday.
 
