Today will see the release of Tamil’s first  . The song is part of a documentary, “a first-of-its-kind attempt to show how the rights of lesbians continue to be opposed in our society”, titled Ladies And Gentle Women. It has been directed by   Jeevarathnam, an independent filmmaker and an LGBT activist. Justin Prabhakaran has composed the music for this song, written by Kutti Revathi. The project has been produced by  , under whom Maalini worked as an assistant director for Madras, and the song will be released on lyricist Madhan Karky’s music portal by director Raju Murugan.

 Talking about the song, Maalini says, “A documentary is seen mostly by people who are curious to know about its subject and gets a maximum of 50,000 to one lakh views on YouTube. But when you do a song on the subject, the song becomes a platform to reach lakhs and lakhs of people.” 
 This song, she says, has been composed using western, folk and Carnatic styles of music. “Lesbianism is not a western influence or something that exists in the upper class. It is natural in both people living in the villages and the cities, and all classes of people. And we wanted to portray this aspect in the music as well,” explains Maalini.
 
 She says that she wanted to release the song on the last day of March, which is considered as women’s month. “Feminism applies to all women, and is a way of breaking away from the chains that restrain us. I see the last day of this month as an outcry to defend our right to choose whom we want to live with,” she explains.
 
 The documentary has already received Best Documentary awards at the Chennai Rainbow Film Festival, and the Norway Tamil Film Festival, and is an official selection for the Out & Loud — Pune International Queer Film Festival. “We have also sent the film to film fests in Spain, Moscow and Switzerland,” she adds. 
 
 The filmmaker reveals that it took her almost three years to make this documentary. “The research took about one-and-a-half years and shooting the documentary took a year,” she says and elaborates on why she decided to take up such a project, “I have been fighting for the rights of LGBT people and campaigning against them committing suicide. Last year alone, there were 17 deaths of LGBT persons in Chennai. These are the ones that have come to our knowledge and there are more men and women who are either committing suicide or losing their lives to honour killing because of their sexual orientation. I hope this documentary acts a platform to bring such incidents to light.”
 
 For the documentary, Maalini met many lesbians and spoke to them, but they were not ready to go on record. “Many bisexual women have spoken in this documentary, but only two lesbians, that too from north India, agreed to be part of it,” she rues. She feels that Tamil girls still do not have the freedom to come out and proclaim their identity. “When Tamil girls’ rights are being refused even when they are in the womb, they clearly do not have the right to choose their love life, and for many, coming out means risking their lives,” she says.
 As part of her research, Maalini delved deep into folk tales, literature and tradition related to lesbianism. She also discusses lesbianism from the point of view of the law and adds that “Section 377 needs to be changed”. “I also spoke to psychologists and common people to show how the society sees this. When I asked them if they would accept a lesbian relationship if a girl in their family tries to commit suicide for it, the only reply I got was, ‘Let her die’,” she says.
 
 Quiz her if she was worried about the moral brigade taking exception to the film and protesting against it, and she says, “Protests will keep happening, but they have to be welcomed. There is nothing worse than killing a right than by not talking about it. Let them protest; we will carry on with our revolt.”
 
 
 
