BHOPAL: Despite making an announcement to hold students’ union election a year ago, the state government has not issued any notification in this regard though the deadline is September according to the academic schedule. Sources said the state government may imitate the Chhattisgarh model of direct election of students’ council. In 2016, higher education minister   had announced that the students’ election will resume from 2017. “Student election will be resumed from 2017. We are taking this decision in theinterest of students,” he had said.

 After his announcement, students’ election schedule was included in the academic calendar. According to the calendar, elections are to be organised by September. “Ideally, the process should have been started by now, but nothing has been done so far. We have not heard anything from the state government,” said NSUI spokesperson Vivek Tripathi. He said that there is no talk about the kind of reservation that will be given to girl students. “The state government will take any step after talking with ABVP only. We will not let it happen,” alleged Tripathi. ABVP’s national secretary   hoped that the election will be organised according to the schedule. “We are hoping the state government will abide by the schedule,” said Rai.
 
 Sources said the state government is mullingto conduct the students election on Chhattisgarh model. “Under the Chhattisgarh model, students’ council that comprises president, vice-president, secretary and joint secretary are directly elected by the students. The elected students’ representatives directly elect the council of universities. Nomination for the university council will be from elected representatives of the colleges only,” said a senior university official.
 
 In Madhya Pradesh, direct elections were discontinued on campus after regular clashes took place among students’ groups. However, elections resumed in 2005, but on the basis of merit only. On August 26, 2006, student elections in   colleges took an ugly turn when a professor HS Sabharwal was killed and another was seriously injured after students attacked them over postponement of students union elections at a college in Ujjain district. After the incident, student elections which were scheduled in several colleges were postponed till 2010. Ujjain professor Sabharwal’s killing had its impact on September 22, 2006 when the Supreme Court ordered the implementation of JM   committee report on students' election suggesting some major curbs. 
 
 After regular demands, elections were resumed on campuses in 2010. The last student elections were organised in colleges in 2011-12. Since then elections could not be held as student leaders were not ready to accept several recommendations. Former chief election commissioner Lyngdoh had in his report suggested sweeping reforms to keep off the influence of political parties, money and muscle power from campus during student union elections -- and the apex court adopted all the Lyngdoh proposals in toto triggering adverse reactions from student leaders. 
 
