As part of its 53rd foundation day celebrations, the National Film Archive of Indian ( ) will give movie buffs a chance to catch up on some classics this weekend. The highlight of this film festival is that all the six classics being screened have been restored by the archive. Part of its efforts to restore over 300 films and digitise over 500 films, these six were restored and digitised between 2009 and 2012. 

 NFAI’s director,  , says, “What will make this viewing experience special is that the films will be screened on a Digital Cinema Package (DCP) projection system. All the restoration that has been done can be noticed and enjoyed on this system.” Adding that the festival is open to all, Prakash said that the archive will also be open to visitors on February 4, where one can tour its facilities, like the projection room, auditorium, research and documentation section and library. The film storage vaults at NFAI’s Kothrud campus will also be open to the public.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Meghe Dhaka Tara ( , Bengali, 1960)
 Based on the novel by Shaktipada Rajguru, the film deals with the aftermath of the Partition of Bengal in 1947.
 
 
  Thaneer Thaneer (K Balachander, Tamil, 1981)
 A political drama based in a village in Tamil Nadu, it focuses on the administrative negligence of suffering, excessive bureaucratic regulation and the greed for power.
 
 
    (Bimal Roy, Hindi, 1953)
 The story of the lives of a small Bengali landowner, Shambhu and his family, who are threatened when their farmland is grabbed by the local zamindar.
 
 
 
 
  Gulacha Ganpati (PL Deshpande, Marathi, 1953)
 A sentimental melodrama starring the Marathi author, playwright and actor, PL Deshpande as the gullible fool Narya.
 
 
  Mathilukal (Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Malayalam, 1989)
 The film focuses on the love between Basheer, a younger prisoner in British India, and a female inmate of the same prison who remains unseen 
 throughout.
 
 
    (Guru Dutt, Hindi, 1959)
 A film director’s marriage is in trouble as his wife’s family disapproves of his career. He falls in love with an orphaned woman and transforms her into a megastar.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
