MUMBAI: Christian activists have accused Bandra’s civic ward office of “malice and injustice” after officials failed to provide documents that they former had demanded “within seven days”.

 During the recent agitation over the demolition of a   in  , municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta had informed the protestors that the civic body would provide the requisite documents should they wish to challenge the matter in court.
 
 Now, the NGO  , which is taking up the matter on behalf of the Christian community, claims the local H West ward office is displaying “malice and injustice” by failing to comply. Godfrey Pimenta and Nicholas Almeida of the NGO wrote to assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade on May 4, demanding the papers “within seven days”. 
 
 “It is now 15 days and the   has not even acknowledged our letter,” Pimenta said on Friday.
 
 But the activists have sought a voluminous list of documents related to legal cases filed in the Bombay high court and Supreme Court, some dating back to 2002, as well as internal correspondence between departments, which the ward office may be unable to provide. These include “all papers and proceedings” related to a writ petition of 2011 and a PIL of 2010, both filed in the HC, apart from a special leave to appeal filed in the SC in 2006. Another writ petition in the HC dates back to 2002.
 
 Watchdog also asked for a list of all structures and shrines belonging to the community in the ward and another list of structures listed for demolition. These are reportedly available on the civic web site. It also seeks “all orders, directions and decisions” by the BMC committee on regularisation of religious structures and all internal correspondence between that committee and the ward office. It also demanded “any other documents” pertaining to religious structures on public property that it may have omitted.
 
 Pimenta said, “As per the municipal commissioner’s circular, BMC volunteered to provide documents within a month. If we don’t set a time limit, they may again resort to demolition after June 1. Even if the documents are voluminous, BMC has volunteered to provide them.”
 
 Ughade told TOI, “We are providing copies of all documents in our possession, including court orders, to anyone who wishes to collect them. We work in an open, transparent manner. We are only following HC orders on illegal religious structures.”
 
