SHIMLA: Heavy rains lashed several parts of the state,   and blocking over 150 roads in the  

 A person was buried in landslide in Lahaul and Spiti, while two inmates were injured in Shimla after a tree fell over a women’s hostel at Sanjauli. A car was buried under the debris and over a dozen houseswere damaged in Kangra, Kullu and Mandi districts, an official spokesperson said.
 
 The tree fell on the hostel around 11.30pm on Saturday, damaging four rooms and injuring two residents. The hostel authorities had filed two complaints regarding three trees posing threat to the building with the Shimla mayor, who is also the chairperson of Shimla Tree Authority Committee (TAC); Himachal Pradesh forest department; and divisional forest officer who is member of TAC on January 28 and another on March 1, but nothing was done regarding the complaints even after 6 months. The hostel provides accommodation to 50 girls and staff.
 
 Shimla municipal corporation officials reached the spot on Monday morning for inspection and removed the fallen tree and also axed two trees.
 
 The PWD, irrigation, public health and electricity board have suffered a loss of about Rs 250 crore due to damage caused by the rains, he added.
 
 The vehicular traffic was suspended in Rohru and Chopal area of Shimla. The traffic was also affected in Mandi, Kullu and in Palampur area of Kangra. The rains also hampered construction work on Shimla-Kalka four-laning project near Solan. The PWD and National Highway Authority of India had to deploy men and machinery to clear the roads.
 
 Shimla has received 66mm rains this afternoon whichflooded the roads and brought normal life to a halt.
 
 The lower hills were also lashed by heavy rains and Dehra Gopipur was the wettest place with 159 mm of rains. It was followed by Palampur (128mm), Dharamshala (117mm), Baijnath and Jogindernagar (97mm each.)
 
 The maximum temperature dropped by one to two degrees and Una recorded a high of 29 degrees Celsius followed by Sundernagar and Solan, both of which recorded a temperature of 26 degrees Celsius.
 
 The local MeT department has warned of heavy to veryheavy rains at some places in lower and mid hills today andtomorrow. It has also predicted wet spells in the region inthe coming week. 
 
