For most old Bengalureans, Jinke Park evokes memories of a wooded expanse where deer would graze in peace, one more lush parkland in a city famous for its greenery.

 Then, things changed. Unlike most stories of Ben galuru, the change started before liberalization and Manmohan Singh and IT revolutions. Towards the end of the 1980s, the deer were moved into the   ­ a few of them had died, as a result of snakebite and translocation seemed to be the best option for them.
 
 Then, Jinke Park fell into neglect and disrepair. “The proximity of the park to the Kempambudhi tank, led to it getting flooded whenever the tank overflowed after rains.So, the place was almost a swamp, infested with rats and snakes,“ says historian Vemagal Somashekar. Somashekar, who lives in Basavanagudi, near the park, says that this situation persisted until the mid-1990s.“That was when the then city mayor K Chandrasekar began efforts to rejuvenate the place and turn it into a children's park,“ he says.
 
 Work began on Chandrasekar's plan in the late 1990s. “The land originally belonged to the forest department. The BBMP acquired 17 acres of parkland from them. Drainage ditches ­ as deep as 20 feet ­ were dug under the park. The first garden plants were introduced. We had figures of sphinxes and unicorns and dinosaurs constructed specially for the place. A glasshouse, costing nearly Rs 1.5 lakh, was also set up,“ says one senior politician associated with the park construction.
 
 The park was operational by 2000 and the early-bird visitors from the neighbourhood would often land up to enjoy the breeze and watch the attractions coming up.The work was completed by 2004, after which it was to have been inaugurated by then chief minister SM Krishna in late May 2004.
 
 The park was never officially opened. Krishna resigned as CM of Karnataka just days before he was to open the park.
 
 Plans to formally inaugurate and revive the park as a memorial to the late Dr Rajkumar were made in 2007, a year after the death of the Kannada icon. A bust of Dr Rajkumar, along with those of Jnanpith award winners from Karnataka, was put up that year. But ensured that the rededication and formal inauguration of the park never took place, says a form e r BBMP official associated with the park.
 
 Soon the facility came to be known as Dr   even though BBMP records still show it as   or the Deer Park.
 
 Today, the park is still there, again a face of neglect. The vegetation, where it has not run wild, is unkempt and scraggly. And on a siding, a small train stands on rusting tracks, dusty with disuse. It's another re minder of the plans that the city once had. “In 2003, a team vis ited the   in Hyderabad and or dered a toy train similar to the one there for the park at a total cost of Rs 1.25 crore including Rs 70 lakh for the engine. The toy train with three compartments was transported and installed in the park. The track ran for a kilometre, and was at an el evation of 20 feet. The idea was to have paid rides for the parkgoers as an added attraction,“ says the politician.
 
 The park was also supposed to host a lightshow every night, and a special laser device was also acquired at the cost of Rs 1.5 crore from Singapore. But, like the train, it lies there, a rusting metal hulk. The water fountains ran dry six years ago. The dinosaur statues are falling apart. Nobody seems to care.
 
 Five years ago, an attempt was made to get the toy train up and running, following public demand. But it was a disaster. There was an accident, and 40 children nearly lost their lives. Since then, the train hasn't moved, and the rails are used as makeshift clotheslines by the washerfolk from the nearby dhobighat.
 
 As far as most people are concerned, the park is just another piece of real estate that exists purely as potential. The corporator for the Hanumanthnagar area, HA Kempegowda, doesn't know much of the park's past ­ nor does he know of any plans for its future. “If people are using the park it means it was inaugurated at some point. However, I'm not sure of the details and as for the future, there aren't any plans to revive it to the best of my knowledge, he says.“
 
 But despite the neglect, a few hopefuls still visit the park, most of them children.It is, after all, a large and mostly empty space in a city that seems to be disappearing into concrete blocks.
 
 If we are lucky, the BBMP will do something about it. A little maintenance is not too much to ask for.
 
 
 
 
