Bhopal: There is a large room with soft yellow lights, a girl in one corner is poring over a large chart paper trying to figure out her sketching. On the other end of the room, a photographer is busy talking to his client. And in the middle, a group of five is having their annual general meeting while classical music plays in the background — it might look like a scene from a café but it is serious business here — a typical day at a coworking space in MP Nagar.

 Bhopal is logging on to the concept of hiring out work space to individuals or organisations — just the thing for a   in the making. These membership-based workspaces are playing a crucial role in the startup culture in what was so long seen as a city of netas, bureaucrats and businessmen.
 
 You can hire a workplace for a day or get a deal for a month. Wi-Fi, stationery, printer, scanner, tea and coffee come with the package.
 
 At least two such 24x7 spaces-for-hire have come up in Bhopal in just six months —Dylogg and S Pace. A government-funded incubation centre, which offers guidance and mentorship as well as shared office space, is in the pipeline and will come up within a year, say sources.
 
 “When I returned to Bhopal after college I realised that there are not many places where people can come and just be. The idea behind Dylogg was to give people a place to share ideas and express themselves — what is your dialogue? This is what we believe in,” said Kokila Bhattacharya, who started the venture with her friend Animesh Chaurasia about two months ago.
 
 At a minimum tariff of Rs 200 per day, they are open 24x7 and this helps start-up professionals cut costs in their initial days. In addition to monetary gain, such workspaces offer benefits of working in a community as skill sets rub off on each other.
 
 Seven months ago, when S Pace co-founder Taytil Singh launched his venture, he sensed a need for an “ecosystem for working” which he thought lacked in the city. “There is a vibe and atmosphere that facilitates working and helps people negotiate the initial roadblocks. The problems I have in setting up my business might be similar to yours. We can learn from each other. In addition to space, we offer guidance as well.”
 
 Within 24 days of operation, they were booked completely, Singh said. “I realised that there was a requirement for such places in Bhopal.”
 
 Coworking involves community building so that different professionals can work in a symbiotic relationship. There are several organisations that facilitate and encourage potential entrepreneurs. One such is Headstart Network that mentors wannabe entrepreneurs. “The concept is very simple — learn from each other and provide a support system. Over the last year, we have seen a lot of startups coming up in Bhopal. The good thing about Bhopal is that it is relatively cheap to start operations here, hence it is becoming popular,” said Abhishek Yagnik of Headstart Network.
 
 Coworking zones are turning into “idea spaces”. And startups love it. Umang Shridhar, founder of Khadigi, a start-up based in Bhopal, says, “Building such a community has its advantages. I do not have to look anywhere else for help.”
 
 Nishant Pagare, a media professional, agrees. “When you are working alone, vibe matters. In a coworking environment, you find many interesting people. I have already collaborated with some coworkers,” he said.
 
 
