GHAZIABAD: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday — the penultimate day of campaigning for the first phase of the state   — lashed out at BJP and praised the SP-Congress alliance but was tight-lipped on Mayawati’s BSP.

  Addressing a crowd of about 5,000 at a   in Muradnagar,  , Rahul went hammer and tongs at Modi on a slew of issues.
 
 “The wind is blowing in favour of the SP-Congress alliance in the state and you must ensure that it turns into a storm and roots out BJP from the state,” Rahul told the crowd, which he kept waiting for two hours.
 
 Starting from the note ban to black money to his Swachh Bharat campaign, Rahul accused Modi of making false promises and creating hatred among communities.
 
 “He asked people to hold brooms and sweep streets while he himself got busy with his numerous foreign trips,” Rahul said in a jibe at Modi’s Swachh Bharat campaign to a cheering crowd.
 
 Hitting out at Modi on demonetisation, Rahul said, “Instead of bringing back black money stashed in overseas banks Modiji came up with the idea of demonetisation and implemented it with utter disdain for citizens, forcing farmers, workers and youths to stand in queues to withdraw their own hard-earned money.”
 
 Rahul said the note ban was done as part of a design to write off the debts of 50 rich families “which amounts to Rs 1,10,00 crore”.
 
 Taking the cue from Bihar, where the BJP-led NDA lost the assembly election to the Magagathbandhan, Rahul said, “Ever since BJP lost in Bihar, Modiji is wary of even taking the name of Bihar. I exhort you to line up before polling booths and vote against those who forced you to queue up in front of banks.”
 
 Spelling out his priorities in the event of the SP-Congress alliance being voted to power, Rahul said the alliance would make the “Made in UP” brand flourish as virtually every commodity is made by the cottage industry in every district of the state.
 
  For instance, bamboo from Bareilly; leather from Kanpur; bedsheets from Muradnagar; and copper ware from Moradabad are of an international quality, Rahul said. Promising to make UP a food processing hub, Rahul said, “I envisage UP becoming the world’s food factory.”
 
 
