Chandigarh: Contradictory views by two officials of the Chandigarh   Department in a case against four government school teachers booked for rioting have baffled a local court. While one officer appealed to the court to cancel the FIR, the other stated that it should not be rescinded. 

 Additional deputy commissioner, Sangrur Upkar Singh who was earlier posted as DPI (director public instructions), Chandigarh, and a complainant in the case deposed before a local court and expressed his discontentment over withdrawal of FIR against the accused.
 
 The matter dates back to July 20, 2013 wherein three lecturers and one table instructor at Chandigarh government schools were booked for rioting at Sector 19 police station. They were Khushali Ram Sharma, lecturer in political science, Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, Chandigarh, Shavinder Singh, lecturer in physics, GMSSS-Sector 40, Swaran Singh Kamboj, table instructor, GMSSS- Sector 37 and Ranbir Singh, ecturer in sociology, GMSSS-40.
 
 The then principal of Government Model senior Seconday School, Sector 19 lodged a complaint against the four. It was alleged that due to obstructions caused by these four teachers, more than half the lecturers could not attend a Faculty Development Programme (FDP) in the same school. 
 
 However the programme was organized on the instruction of the DPI’s office and it was directed by DPI that all lecturers of mathematics and science had to attend the programme. However, due to the ’efforts’ of these four teachers, only 25 % of the lecturers attended the programme. Eventually, the DPI lodged a complaint against these four teachers and it was prayed that a case under sections 144 (Joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) should be registered against them. 
 
 But on February 2, 2014 deputy DPI Chanchal Singh, on behalf of the then DPI (S) and education secretary wrote to the SHOs to cancel these FIRs adding that a compromise had been reached between the district education officer, Chandigarh and the four. In this regard, the court had summoned DPI (S) Upkar Singh who was the head when the incident took place to court and he later expressed displeasure regarding the same.
 
 
