Politics is part and parcel of  r lives and we need to take an active interest in it. But there is a difference between taking interest and staying abreast with political affairs and allowing politics to consume one’s life. With the campus elections round the corner and the level of tensions rising due to political rivalry on campus, students debate whether colleges will be better off without politics.

 
 
 When politics dominates educational institutions, they transform campuses into proxy battlefields, where students are expected to pick sides and violence becomes a tool to settle long-standing score. We also encounter with many suicidal cases which occur from peer pressure of choosing sides, on the basis of individual caste identities therefore dividing the students on caste lines, irrespective of their choices. This is a major threat to India’s unity. 
 — Garima Pandey,  
 
 Who said it is politics that gives students a platform to make their voices heard? We have an apolitical students’ body and our grievances are well-attended, without turning our campus into proxy battlefields of political parties. Weeding out political goons from educational institutions is the best way to curb violence in campuses.
 — Manohar Thota,  
 
 Student politics forces us to adopt an identity we might not be comfortable with. It’s good to fight for our rights, but in most cases students end up fighting the battles of their political leaders. There is no place for neutrality. Also it gives free license to indulge in violence. There is so much violence out there. Do we really need vandalism, deaths and indiscipline in campuses too?
 — Jahnavi Vallabhaneni,  
 
 
 
 Students play a major role in shaping the future of the society. Along with critical analysis of academic research, politics play a major role in instilling egalitarian ethos not just in universities but the society as well. Student activism not only focuses on the internal affairs of the specific institution; but also on broader issues such as a caste discrimination, poverty and so on. History is a proof that student-dominated youth movements have played pivotal role in 
 India’s Independence struggle and Telangana formation. 
 — Stalin, OU
 
 Academics must not be restricted to classrooms. It’s about forming our own opinion too. As citizens, we must be aware of the political situation in the country. And moreover students need representation to voice their grievances. It’s undemocratic to not hold elections in campus. Student union is a link between students and the administration.
 — Torsa Saha,  
 
  gives us a space to voice our political opinions. Having said that I agree that sometimes the student politics can be disturbing, bit of the disturbance is a product of misguided self-serving student activism wherein the real motive of student politics gets lost. The need of the hour is to have informed and sensitive student leaders, not a self-serving opportunist.
 — Vijay,  
 
