NEW DELHI: After   Lt Governor   approached the Centre seeking transfer of and disciplinary action against state chief secretary for removing the municipal commissioner in defiance of her instructions, the home ministry has sought a detailed report from the chief secretary on the entire controversy. Top sources in the home ministry, however, indicated that Bedi may be on firm legal ground as the rules of procedure for Puducherry clearly state that all matters related to services shall be decided by LG in consultation with the chief minister. 

 As per Rule 47(1) of the Rules of Business of Government of   (now Puducherry), the administrator shall, with respect to persons serving in connection with the administration of the Union territory, exercise such power and functions as may be entrusted to him under the rules and orders regulating the conditions of service of such persons or any other order of the President. It further says that the administrator (LG) shall exercise the powers and functions referred to in sub-rule (1) in consultation with the chief minister. 
 
 Going strictly by the above rule, Puducherry secretary   could not have, prima facie, served transfer orders on municipal commissioner   without Bedi's consent. 
 
 "We are yet to get a report from the chief secretary. We will consult the government's law officers once we have the report, on the legality of Parida's decision to transfer Chandrasekaran as per the Speaker's ruling but while bypassing the competent authority (LG) for deciding all service matters relating to Puducherry. Accordingly, a call on further action may be taken," a home ministry official told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 On March 30, secretary to Puducherry LG Bedi, G Theva Neethi Das, had written to the chief secretary not to transfer the Puducherry municipal commissioner, despite a ruling to that effect issued by assembly Speaker V Vaithilingam in the House. The Speaker's ruling came after an MLA moved a privilege motion against Chandrasekharan, alleging the latter was not responding to key issues of public interest raised by him. 
 
 However, on April 1, the chief secretary served a transfer order on Chandrasekaran, which the LG's office says was despite her directions to he contrary, as communicated earlier by Dhas. Also, the committee on privileges of the assembly issued a contempt notice to Dhas for "abetting" Chandrasekharan to continue in his position despite the Speaker's ruling in the House for his removal. 
 
 A PTI report had yesterday quoted Bedi as saying: “The chief secretary has severely violated rules. I have recommended to the home ministry to immediately transfer him and take disciplinary action against him. The LG is the authority to decide on service matters. He violated administrative responsibility".
 
 The Puducherry LG also criticised the contempt notices served on her secretary by the Privileges Committee of the House, wondering how individual officers could function under political pressure.
 
 Bedi said the whole controversy could have been avoided had the chief secretary followed the rules as final powers in all service matters lie with the LG. 
 
 
 
 
