BIJNOR: Two days after a 41-year-old man was attacked along with his 17-year-old son, who later died in an   near  , heavy police force and PAC companies were deployed in several villages here to avoid communal tension. Meanwhile, two local residents filed a police complaint that their shops were torched late on Saturday night.
 
  Amid protests led by local BJP leaders, including party’s Bijnor candidate  , the uncle of the deceased, appealed for peace in the area. “We do not want any untoward incidents in the area. We believe in law and hope the accused will be punished,” he said.
  
  While the two shop owners belonging to another community have registered complaints with the Bijnor police that their establishments were torched on Saturday night, police have refuted the claims saying the fire was caused by short circuit.
  
  One of them said,“We shut our shops in Bijnor city on Saturday evening and returned to our village. Someone informed us at 10.30pm that smoke is coming out of the shops. When we rushed back to the shops, we found them on fire.”
  
  Bijnor SHO   said, “There is no tension here. Police and PAC have been deployed in the areas only as a precautionary measure. The shops being burnt was an accident.”
  
  Forces have been deployed in several villages including Peda, Naya Gaon and Kachupura. On Sunday afternoon paramilitary forces reached here. The district will go to polls on Wednesday in the second phase of assembly elections.
  
  While the Naya Gaon resident and his son were attacked on February 10, a case was registered against eight persons including former village head of Peda on Saturday. A group of protesting villagers who blocked the roads forced the police to assure them that they would arrest all the accused by Sunday evening. They managed to make some headway into the investigation with one arrest while the others are still absconding.
  
  The 17-year-old’s uncle in an appeal for justice said, “We have nothing to do with the Peda incident but my nephew was killed by the Peda villagers. He had done no harm to anyone. We know quite well that the accused wanted to disrupt the peace and therefore they attacked my brother and nephew. But we will not let them succeed. We want everyone to keep patience and believe in what the authorities will do.”
