S.S. Rajamouli’s magnum opus ‘
 ’ has made waves worldwide with its bumper opening and massive weekend collections. The multi-lingual film that stars Prabhas and  , amassed a whopping Rs 506 crore worldwide (cumulative figure of all languages) over the opening weekend, according to a report on BoxofficeIndia.com.

 
 
 While the collections in India read Rs 385 crore (gross) over the weekend, it minted Rs 121 crore overseas. The business in US and Canada, Gulf and Australia has reportedly smashed all records. Not just that, if we include the collections of the previews, then the worldwide collection goes up to Rs 520 crore.
 
 Here is a look at how  : The Conclusion’s collections on the opening weekend in India have beaten those of all other Indian films to date.
 
  
  
 
 ‘Baahubali 2: The Conclusion’ was one of the highly anticipated films after the phenomenal success of its 2015 prequel ‘Baahubali: The Beginning’. Paired with state-of-the-art VFX and a good storyline, the release of the sequel had fans flocking to theatres in large numbers to have their question ‘Why Kattappa killed Baahubali’ answered. The ‘Baahubali 2’ mania is not just restricted to the nation but has clearly spread overseas too. Superstar   too lauded the magnum opus and termed it as “Indian cinema’s pride”. 
 
 If you have watched 'Baahubali 2: The Conclusion' then Ramya Krishnan aka Sivagami Devi's majestic presence in the film certainly remains in your memory. The actress with her intense performance has made a special place for herself in the heart of millions. Overwhelmed by the praises, Ramya took to Twitter to thank her fans. She tweeted, "I thank each and everyone who have taken the effort to call me, message me and wish me through my FB page and twitter a BIG THANK YOU...." She added, "Love you all...without your love, affection and support I wouldn't be where I am today, I am so overwhelmed....Jai Mahishmathi.." 
 
 Rana Daggubati, who played the antagonist - Bhallaladeva, took to Instagram to praise his co-star. Posting a picture of Prabhas, Rana wrote a long caption that read, "A big shoutout this fine gentleman my co-star, friend and   himself. He was the one who stood by this film rock solid for over 5 years at the peak of his career unquestioned and with a smile....today he stands as the biggest pan-Indian superstar and deserves every bit of it. Proud and happy to be a part of his journey!! Saahore Baahubali!!"
 
