At a time when musicians like GN Balasubramaniam and Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer were ruling the music scene, a rather unassuming musician,  , came into the picture. Though he was heavily influenced by GNB and Veenai Dhanammal’s style of music, he created his own musical expression that struck a chord with many. Born on September 14, 1918, his music still resonates with young musicians of today. For his centenary year, which from today, his son RK Ramanathan has lined up concerts by musicians every month until next year, to celebrate   and the impact he has created with his music. 

 “It is amazing whenever I hear young musicians talking about him or using his style of singing in their renditions. If my father can have this impact even during his 100th year, it needs to be celebrated, right?” begins Ramanathan, who, even though took up a career in pharmaceutical, says that he constantly listens to his father’s music to keep the tradition alive.
 
 Stories about how Krishnan was a perfectionist, and unabashedly vocal about promoting the traditional way of singing without diluting the essence are many. No wonder he is regarded as an iconic role model by many young musicians today. “My father comes from a family of musicians. He had six brothers, of which Lakshminarayanan and Venkatachalam were trained in violin, Eashwaran and   were trained in mridangam, and my father was trained in vocal music. All of them learnt under Madurai Sankarasivam. He was already doing concerts in Ramnad, but he moved to Chennai when he was around 18 years old to become a full-fledged musician. He was attracted to GNB’s style of singing and was a regular at his concerts. Subsequently, he happened to be exposed to Veena   through his friend Mottu Krishnaswamy Iyengar (a direct disciple of Kanchipuram Naina Pillai). 
 
 He was awestruck by the way she played the veenai. He wanted to expand his style of music and was then introduced to T Brindha and T Muktha, who were the foremost representatives of Dhanammal’s school of music. He started picking up their bani and they imparted their knowledge about the style to him.”
 
 Around this time, Krishnan was already becoming famous for his style of music. His rendering of ragas, notably Begada and Sahana, and ragas like Umabaranam and  , among others, were unique. He was even called Sahana Krishnan by many. “Musician Jon B Higgins, who was learning under flautist T Viswanathan, was asked to learn from my father when he was doing his post-graduation in Carnatic music,” recollects Ramanathan, adding, “He had the best of everything. He was an A-grade artiste in All India Radio and performed to full houses. He even had the opportunity to move to the US for two years. But my father came back in three months, saying, ‘I was born to sing to people who understand our music’.”
 
 When he was around 35, he was regarded as one of the top musicians of Madras. “He was strong, but at the same time, he had a soft personality. I was amazed when he decided to come back from the USA, even though he knew he could have earned more money there. But he would get emotional for the smallest of things and had a child-like behaviour,” reminisces Ramanathan. 
 
 Krishnan’s terrific sense of humour and punctuality are qualities that many from that generation remember even today. Ramananthan says, “He was quite adamant, too. He would never budge for audience’s likes when he was performing. He would never go for the ‘popular song’ as he believed that the audience must be exposed to the traditional and purest music. He was the torch-bearer of tradition. And for this reason, not just music connoisseurs, even many musicians used to attend his concert.” 
 
 
