LUCKNOW: The  , which was sealed just two days before the nominations for the first phase was about to end, was in the making for quite some time. However, the first signs of trouble surfaced after the January 9 meeting scheduled between   vice-president Rahul Gandhi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister   fell through.

 Akhilesh, though anointed president at a special convention of the Samajwadi Party, had still not received clearance from the  . With a pre-poll alliance seeming to be necessary, Akhilesh had reportedly offered 121 seats to the Congress.
 
  To all onlookers, the Grand Old Party, out in the political wilderness in UP for 27 years, was getting a good deal. But despite agreeing to the arrangement, the Congress backtracked, and sent in a revised list of assembly constituencies to Akhilesh. Apart from asking the SP to ramp up the numbers of seats, it also demanded that the ruling party vacate some of its MLA seats. The sticking point, among other things, were 10 assembly constituencies in Amethi and Rae Bareli, of which Congress currently holds only two.
 
 Akhilesh, however, was unwilling to concede. The SP has seven MLAs in Amethi and Rae Bareli. The chief minister, sources told TOI, however, suggested a 50-50 arrangement, with SP and Congress each keeping five of the 10 assembly seats in Amethi and Rae Bareli. Akhilesh remained firm on this decision, and even after the alliance was announced, he went ahead to declare five SP candidates -- two in Amethi and three in Rae Bareli. Sanjay Sinh, Congress’s campaign committee chair, also the reining ‘Raja’ of Amethi, though, was pushing for total control. He, insiders said, pleaded with   Vadra, who was leading the alliance talks, to demand that Congress got its way in Amethi, asking also that his second wife, Ameeta, be fielded from the Amethi assembly seat. 
 
 The Sinh couple even met Akhilesh in Lucknow to petition their case, but were politely turned down. The meeting took place before the Election Commission ruled in favour of Akhilesh, and the UP CM even offered the Lucknow Cantt seat to Ameeta in exchange for letting his faction keep two seats in Amethi, and three in Rae Bareli. That offer also stood withdrawn after the EC declared Akhilesh as national president of the SP.
 
 Another element that strained the pre-poll alliance talks between the SP and the Congress was the latter’s choice of emissaries to do the talking on behalf of the Congress leadership. Even though Akhilesh had been in touch with the Gandhis over phone, Congress picked Dhiraj Srivastava, a Rajasthan cadre PCS officer, working for some time in the shadows of Congress President Sonia’s Gandhi’s constituency representative Kishori Lal Sharma. The other man picked to take Congress’s messages to Akhilesh was Prashant Kishor, the professional hand hired by the Congress to handle their UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand poll campaigns.
 
 Matters came to a head on January 20 when, with only four days left to file nominations for the first phase of UP polls, Akhilesh made his final move to build pressure on the Congress to concede or withdraw, and declared 191 SP candidates. That triggered panic in the Congress. 
 
 This was when Sonia stepped in and advised Kapil Sibal and Ahmed Patel to open another channel of dialogue with Akhilesh and Ram Gopal Yadav. Following this, Akhilesh agreed to spare 105 seats for Congress with a rider that he would be allowed to have his choice of candidate on at least 25 seats of the ally’s quota.
 
