Mumbai: A month after CM Devendra Fadnavis’ announcement, the urban development department on Saturday set up a three-member committee comprising former   commissioner Sharad Kale, former housing secretary Gautam Chaterjee and former Pune municipal commissioner Ramanath Jha to suggests ways and means to bring in complete transparency in the functioning of municipal corporations. 

 The committee is expected to submit a comprehensive action plan to ensure that tendering process is transparent and there is no scope for corruption or manipulation.
 
 In the run-up to BMC polls, Fadnavis had launched a frontal attack on the Shiv Sena, alleging largescale corruption in the BMC owing to lack of transparency and accountability, and he had promised to cleanse the BMC. After the polls, when Shiv Sena emerged the single largest party with 84 seats, there was speculation on whether the BJP, which won 82 seats, would field a nominee for the mayoral election or join hands with the Sena. Fadnavis had then declared that the   will not contest the mayoral election or polls to any statutory civic committees and instead, it will work towards providing transparency, accountability and efficiency in the BMC. 
 
 “We will form a committee for drafting an action plan for bringing in transparency, accountability and efficiency, not only in BMC, but all corporations. The panel will submit a report in three months,” the CM had said. As per the 74th amendment to the Constitution, all urban local bodies have been autonomous and the central government provides huge funds for civic amenities. The committee has been asked to suggest amendments to BMC Rules, 1988, Maharashtra Municipal Corporation rules and Maharashtra Municipal Council, Nagar Panchayat and Industrial Township Rules, 1965, to ensure that there is complete transparency, accountability and efficiency in the administration.
 
 The committee will also study the functioning of different committees under urban local bodies and recommend measures to make them more transparent, efficient and accountable. The CM has told the committee to study how project tenders are floated and suggest changes to make the process transparent. He has also asked the panel to recommend a process to fix accountability, and measures for better performance of employees and improving the civic body’s financial condition so that they can be self sufficient. 
 
 
