NEW DELHI: A group of 107 members of the US Congress, including key members of India Caucus, both Republicans and Democrats, have written to home minister   to allow the American charity   to continue its work in India.
 
  This comes after 27 US Congress members raised the issue during their meeting with Prime Minister   here last month, when the PM is said to have suggested that all non-governmental organisations (NGOs) must follow the law of the land.
  
  Compassion International, one of India’s biggest donors, has been accused of engaging in religious conversions. The Union home ministry recently instructed Indian banks not to process the organisation’s wire transfers without its approval.
  
  The signatories to the letter include the House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (Republican), ranking member Eliot Engel (Democrat), Republican Congressman Joe Wilson and a number of prominent members of the House India Caucus including Indian American Congressman Ami Bera, who hails from Gujarat.
  
  “As the largest and oldest democracies in the  , India and the US share bonds rooted in political pluralism and respect for the rule of law.
  
  It is with this in mind that we write to express our deep concern over the lack of transparency and consistency in your government’s enforcement of the Foreign Contributions   Act,” said the letter dated March 21, a copy of which has been seen by ET.
  
  The members of US Congress wrote to Singh, “The ongoing case of US-based Compassion International, which will have harmful consequences for many Indian children, has caused serious concern within the US Congress.
  
  As you may know, CI has worked in India since 1968, and today, its programmes support over 145,000 Indian children, providing critical tutoring,   and nutrition, and medical services.”
  
  The letter further said, “Tragically, Compassion will soon be forced to terminate its service to India after nearly 50 years of working in your country. We are writing because we believe the ministry of home affairs has issued an inter-bank circular preventing all commercial banks in India from processing CI’s wire transfers without prior ministry approval.”
  
  As a result, the letter said, CI is unable to process the funds it needs to continue and will be forced to close its sponsorship programmes on March 15, to the detriment of the hundreds of thousands of children it serves in India.
  
  “Many of our constituents, who have built emotional attachments through years of building relationships with these kids, are devastated,” it said.
  
  “We want to be clear with you that we expect all American entities operating within India to respect India’s laws, including Compassion. Having seen the important poverty alleviation work being done by CI, it is our sincere hope that this situation can be resolved quickly by your issuing a temporary reprieve,” the letter said.
  
  It said this will allow Compassion International to process its wire transfers and keep its programmes serving the Indian people operating until a more permanent solution can be found in accord with India’s laws.
  
  The US Congress, which has been a votary of strong ties with India, had last year blocked Obama administration’s proposal to sell F-16 fighter jets to  , after India expressed its concerns. PM Modi had last year addressed a joint session of the US Congress last year.
  
  The Ministry of External Affairs’ spokesperson recently said, “We have been fully transparent, including in our conversations with the concerned on the prevalent situation.” The spokesperson said there is a well-established   framework for non-governmental organisations to conduct their operations in India and that India has one of the largest NGO networks in the world.
  
  The government has rubbished charges that the ruling BJP’s ideological mentor, RSS, played a role in the home ministry’s decision.
