THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , the lone Kerala rifle shooter in the national squad, is excited these days, thanks to the new job with   and a place in Indian shooting squad for the   (ISSF) World Cup finals to be held in New Delhi next month.

 Moreover she will be soon given the task of mentor's role of the shooting team to be formed in the Kerala Police which she joined last month as an officer.
 
 Speaking to TOI after a tough day's training at Police Training College, Thycaud, here   recalled her meeting with the state police chief Loknath Behra the other day. "It was just a courtesy call. But he asked me if I can set up a team from among the Kerala Police force. It caught me unawares and I was so excited that I grabbed the offer with both hands," said Elizabeth who won a historic gold medal in the 2015 National Games at National Games Shooting Range,   here.
 
 Elizabeth won two individual gold medals - 50m rifle prone and 50m rifle 3 positions - in the Games hosted by Kerala which also helped her win the new job with the Kerala Police on sports quota. 
 
 She missed the flight to Rio by a whisker after finishing fourth in the 50m rifle 3 positions (3P) at the Asian Olympic Qualifiers also held in Delhi which was last tournament to win the berth. "The job in Kerala Police helped me to overcome the setback. I can train at the Vattiyoorkavu National Games Shooting Range all alone," said Elizabeth who will leave for Delhi soon to attend the national camp before the first World Cup finals of the season. The 22-year-old will aslo compete in next two finals to be held at Munich, Germany in May and at Gabala, Azerbaijan in June.
 
 After national rifle coach   of Kazakhstan quit, Elizabeth is without a personal coach but she has been told a new coach will join India during the national camp.
 
 The Delhi tournament will also miss  . The 2008 Beijing Olympic Games gold medal winner Abhinav retired soon after Rio Games recently. "Abhinav is very helpful. He instils confidence and his calmness rubs on to others too," she says.
 
 Elizabeth whose best score is 586 in 50m rifle 3 position event achieved in Munich World Cup in 2016 is confident to better her personal best in the upcoming season. "I'm making myself a force to reckon with at international level. Consistency will be my buzzword and I hope to keep the rhythm going and keep Indian flag fly high," she concluded.
 
