PATNA: The   district administration has convened a meeting of the principals of private schools and members of different school associations on Thursday to discuss security arrangements inside and outside the campuses.

 The administration’s move comes close on the heels of the kidnapping of 12-year-old Harsh Raj of Radiant International School from outside his school campus on Tuesday. The Class VIII student was rescued by police within a couple of hours.
 
 Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal will chair the meet which will also be attended by SSP Manu Maharaaj and SP (Traffic) Prantosh Kumar Das.
 
 “The issues are important, and they include CCTV cameras and deployment of guards on school campuses, SMS alert system for guardians and global positioning system in school buses,” the DM told this reporter on Wednesday.
 
 The administration will also ask the principals to update their school websites. For, many parents have complained that they do not find the school website useful. “We will also ask the schools to conduct mock drills on disaster management,” the DM said.
 
 It will be an interactive session. “The school representatives are free to raise their problems. If we have to play a role in resolving them, we will certainly play our role,” Agarwal said.
 
 The district administration had held similar meetings in February and May last year. “We mean business... This time we will be strict towards the schools which ignore the safety measures prescribed by the administration and the CBSE and CISCE. A report on the minutes of the meeting will also be sent to the CBSE’s regional office,” Agarwal said.
 
 SP (Traffic) Das said he would ask the schools not to park their buses and vans on road as they cause traffic snarls. “This also renders children vulnerable to accidents,” he said.
 
 According to CBSE’s city coordinator and Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, at least 30 schools have their campuses on the bypass stretch with thousands of students on their rolls. “However, there is hardly any security or traffic personnel to offer help when students are stuck in jams on the bypass,” Sinha said, adding he would raise this matter at the meeting.
 
 
