Chennai: A V Girijakumar, who has over three decades experience in public-sector insurance, has taken over as the new CMD of United India Insurance Company from Milind Kharat. Having started his career with New India Assurance in 1980, Girijakumar has also had a stint at National Insurance. In an exclusive with TOI, he talked about his visions for the company. Excerpts: 

 What is the company’s vision for FY17-18? And there has been talk of an IPO?
 
 We are planning for an IPO after New India Assurance and GIC go public. So tentatively, we are looking at the early half of FY18-19. But it might also be earlier, if market conditions are favourable and we are able to achieve our goals. The company’s vision is to become a more viable, more economical enterprise that can hold its ground with public shareholders. We are particularly looking at cutting underwriting losses from the group health business.
 
 With group health seeing loss ratios of 110% plus, could you expand on the measures being taken?
 
 There will be price revisions in group health. Now, this might lead to a loss of business and clients might seek out a cheaper insurer. But we are willing to take the risk. We are serious about cutting our underwriting losses and we are okay with doing less business; and exercising more prudence.
 
 How was FY16-17?
 
 We have already achieved our targets for the year. We have crossed Rs 15,000 crore in gross premium and our target was Rs 14,444 crore. Since we are going to focus on quality more than quantity our growth might be a little lower; somewhere between 5-10% (Rs 15,750- 16,500 FY17-18 target). We have also increased our market share from 13.20%, we would have crossed 13.65% by March 31, 2017. 
 
 The figure Rs 14,444 crore seems a little curious, any particular reason?
 
 That was just for quick recall -- we wanted all our stakeholders, employees, vendors, agents to remember that number and work towards it. Rs 14,444 crore is an easier number than a whole number.
 
 Any particular sectors you have seen growth from?
 
 Health has been a good driver for growth. Surprisingly, we have also good business from crop insurance — particularly participation in Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. We’ve seen good business from Rajasthan and West Bengal. Tamil Nadu has been covered by New India Assurance and private sector players.
 
 With regard to motor, there has been talk of amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act?
 
 There have been discussions with a Parliamentary committee, GIC Council to curb losses in this segment. Motor insurance has unlimited liability. One of the proposals was to peg the insurer’s third-party liability at a certain cap. Today, the liability can be very high, particularly for young, promising individuals — it could run into crores. So what we are suggesting is that mandatory third-party liability should be capped. And unlimited coverage should be an add-on cover that the prudent customer chooses. Because the losses from motor accidents for insurers is high.
 
 
