SALEMPUR (DEORIA): In the rural deep of UP’s Purvanchal districts, when Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) supremo   on Sunday took to microphone, there were inevitable belly laughs in the crowd as he addressed them all as “samdhi.”

 “Jitne boodhe aur budhiye log hain, sab samdhi hai humare. Yadav ji (Mulayam) ke pauta se hum shaadi kiye hai beti ka. Bihar aur Uttar Pradesh ko ek kar diya hai. Aur aap logon ne mann bana liya hai. Iska istemaal savere mooh dhoke hoora karke, SP-Congress ko vote daaliye” said Lalu in Bhojpuri-mixed Hindi, the common dialect in eastern districts of UP.
 
 As he flew from Kushinagar to Deoria, the two UP districts that are closest to Bihar, to address four back-to-back rallies, Lalu knew he had struck an emotional chord with the Purvanchalis. His daughter Rajlakshmi is married to Mulayam Singh Yadav’s grand-nephew Tej Pratap, Samajwadi Party MP from Mainpuri.   flew along with his father-in-law to all four rallies. At each rally, he would touch his feet and solicit support to save the Yadav clan.
 
 While SP patriarch Mulayam has taken a back seat, remaining absent from most big rallies for his party candidates across the state, Lalu seems to have run to the parivar’s defence. “BJP is using abusive language against Akhilesh. I won’t let anything happen to him. Like Tej, he’s my son too” he told TOI at the rally ground.
 
 With just three phases of elections left to be concluded by March 8, Lalu is set to pack a punch with 29 more rallies across Mau, Azamgarh, Varanasi, Ballia and so on in the next week. Most of these districts are a 45-minute to an hour hop from Patna. Although Akhilesh had not included Lalu at the time of the Congress-SP alliance announcement, it is he who has now provided him with a chopper, a brand new 5-seater, to campaign.
 
 Lalu packs a punch with his inimitable mimicry of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and can jeer at the PM with a flippant discourse that is enough to turn the crowd on their feet.
 
 Which is why most of Lalu’s Sunday attack was reserved for Modi and BJP president Amit Shah, both of whom have launched vitriolics on Akhilesh on graveyards for Muslims and deteriorating law and order affairs in the state.
 
