LUCKNOW: It is tragic how even in the 21st century, the girl child, who is worshipped as 'devi' otherwise, is not given enough care to survive even infancy.

 Recently released   (SRS) data, part of the 2015 SRS bulletin that has evaluated   (IMR) by sex and residence, shows that the   was 35 for boys and 39 for girls. What's disheartening is that UP stands at number 2 amongst all states.
 
 This happens despite India's skewed sex ratio (number of females per 1,000 males) of 911 for one-year-olds. "Since more boys are born, the death rate for the age group is expected to be higher. But the fact that despite being fewer in number, more girls are dying indicates that something is not right. 
 
 The obvious explanation, considering the deep rooted patriarchal mindset in India, could be that girls are not getting their due," said Sabu George, a pioneer against sex determination.
 
 An infant is a child between 4-52 weeks old while infant mortality rate (or the number of infants dying among every 1,000 live births) is an important health, social and development indicator. Different studies have indicated that preference for sons was motivated by economic, religious, social and emotional desires.
 
 The SRS data also showed that the problem was bigger in rural areas. where 40/1000 boys and 43/1000 girls died before turning one. In urban areas, however, 23/1000 boys and 28/1000 girls couldn't survive.
 
 The trend, noticed across 18 of the 21 bigger states, was most visible in Bihar where 50 girls died in their infancy. The male-female divide in Bihar was sharper with IMR for boys at 36.
 
 Bihar's urban areas witnessed more girl child deaths (52/1000) than rural counterparts (49/1000). Uttar Pradesh followed with 48 infant girl deaths which was four points more than that of boys.
 
 "The difference is an indicator that the girl child's health remains neglected," and she is not given the required care she deserves. It also suggests that preference for the male child is no myth," said Madhu Garg, state secretary, All India Democratic Womens' Association.
 
 Health activist Vishwajeet Kumar said that UP is one state where sons are still preferred over daughters. "Even today, when there is no dearth of role models, the birth of a girl child is rarely celebrated and the notion that a family is not complete unless sons are born is a common belief," he said.
 
 Save the girl child activist   asserted that the bias questions the union government's effort to amend the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition Of Sex Selection) Act.
 
 "In such a scenario, if the   is diluted, the purpose of schemes like 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' stands defeated. "Let the girls be born survival still remains a challenge for them. Efforts should in fact be made to fight the mindset which is behind sex selection and ignorance of the girl child," she said.
 
