THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday announced ‘She Pad’ scheme for school students across Kerala. The Rs 30-crore scheme intends to provide sanitary napkins for   in all government schools to ensure menstrual hygiene. 

 Last year, social justice minister   had announced the plan to launch a ‘She Pad’ project in higher secondary schools, while speaking about the plan to set up Nirbhaya shelter homes in all districts. The minister had said that the project will be implemented through Kerala state women development corporation (KSWDC) which will distribute sanitary napkins, cupboards and incinerators to treat the pads in government higher secondary schools across the state.
 
 In January 2016, the state government had issued an order that a part of the funds for sanitary pads will be from the local self government institutions (LSGIs) and KSWDC in the state. 
 
 “With the state government order in January last year, now 18 panchayats have transferred a total amount of Rs 1.36 crore till date for the   project. It is planned for launch next month. Subsidized high quality sanitary napkins will be distributed to the 16 lakh adolescent girl children of 7,000 schools across 14 districts in Kerala,” KSWDC managing director V C Bindu said.
 
 The decision to launch the scheme came after the success of the pilot project launched in the government schools in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode in the past two years. Now, this scheme will cater to girls from 11 to 18 years in all government schools, Bindu said.
 
 “Menstrual hygiene is one of the major problems faced by girls and women in Kerala because very often it is veiled in secrecy and negativity associated with cultural and religious taboos. It is also neglected due to lack of awareness on menstrual preparedness and management among adolescent girls,” she added.
 
 A study conducted by A C Nielsen ‘Sanitary Protection: Every woman’s health right’, and reviewed and endorsed by the community development organization  , reveals that only 12% of India’s 355 million menstruating women use sanitary napkins. Around 23% of adolescent girls in the age-group 12 to 18 years drop out of school because of inadequate menstrual protection and those who are in school won’t turn up for an average of five days a month. 
 
 Limited access to safe and affordable sanitary products and facilities is believed to be one of the reasons for constrained school attendance, high dropout rates and ill-health due to infection. Accessibility to affordable sanitary pads on the school premises will be of great blessing for every girl child in our country, KSWDC officials said.
 
