Pune: Multiplex chain, PVR Cinemas, recently opened 5 new screens in Pimpri and is on the way to add 6 more on Senapati Bapat Road, taking the total screen presence in the city to 31 screens from the operator’s stable over the next two quarters.

 The listed entity said that this gives it 33% market share of total screens in the city among multiplex operators (excludes local cinemas and single screen theatres). Pimpri’s opening also gives PVR an 31% market share in total cinema seats offered by multiplexes in the city. PVR now has 5,123 seats across 25 screens and four cinemas.
 
 The company said it has invested over Rs 50 crore in the city so far and is in the process of investing Rs 20 crore more in the city for 10 more screens at the S.B.Road and Kumar Pacific property (which will be launched later).
 
 This investment from PVR comes even as it claims to enjoy only about 36% occupancy on weekends and about 23% occupancy on weekdays.
 
 “This is among the highest occupancy in the world…You have to map a market completely and cannot do it only when you see immediate demand. You have to plan for growth,” said Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas.
 
 He said that a 36% share is good enough to give a reasonable footfall for the brand to leverage it across the food and beverages (F&B) division also.
 
 In India, there is a direct co-relation between ticket prices and occupancy. In Chennai, for instance, where ticket prices are capped the occupancy is much higher at over 75%.
 
 Asked if the same model of low ticket prices cannot be replicated to increase occupancy in other states, Dutta said, “South is a different market. People there consume movies in five languages. A price cap prevents innovation and keeps out creativity. It does not allow an operator from offering great experience to the discerning audience.”
 
 Across India, PVR has 579 screens and offers 1,31,477 seats in 50 cities. On an average, the company said it opens about 50 screens per year. It also said that it plans to reach a 1,000 screens by the year 2020 -- meaning it will have double it’s screen addition each year over the next four years. 
 
 ENDS
 
 
