MUMBAI: Every year the   increases its budget by 2-3%, but sources say the   2017-18, expected to be announced on March 29, may be cut significantly. It is learned the budget may be less than Rs 30,000 crore, compared to Rs 37,052 crore in 2016-17. 

 The  , likely to be presented to the civic standing committee next week, would be municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta’s second budget since he took charge in April 2015. Civic sources said while several reasons can be attributed to the budget’s downsizing, which might be around Rs 26,000-28,000 crore this time, the main factor may be unutilised funds year after year. 
 
 The BMC is also likely to slash fund allocation for road and storm water drain departments in the light of scams that have embarrassed the administration over the past two years. In 2015-16, the BMC allocated Rs 3,863.77 crore to the road and traffic department, which might be reduced.
 
 In fact the newly elected mayor, Vishwanath Mahadeshwar of the  , has said the budget should be ‘realistic’. In a letter to the BMC chief, he said despite allocating money for projects like the coastal road and a sewage treatment plant, work on the ground is yet to begin. 
 
 BJP Mumbai president Ashish Shelar has also written to the municipal commissioner, demanding that looking at the BMC’s financial condition no taxes should be increased. TOI recently reported how the BMC is sitting on a cash pile of Rs 61,510 crore. Shelar also demanded a realistic budget. Party leader in the BMC, Manoj Kotak, said even if the civic budget is cut, what would be essential is to see whether that amount also is spent. “Besides, we believe taxes should not be increased as despite collecting taxes the BMC has not been able to provide good services to Mumbaikars,” said Kotak.
 
 Bringing some added cheer for the BMC this year, revenue collected from octroi surpassed targets. While the target set by the BMC for octroi collection was Rs 6,850 crore, its collection has already crossed Rs 7,000 crore.
 
 
