LUCKNOW: Licences of   seized in the recent crackdown will be cancelled and the premises will remain seized till the company decides to directly operate it.

 Over the past two weeks, the district administration, Special Task Force and the weights and measures department have jointly raided petrol pumps across the city and state after complaints of fraud.
 
 Petrol pumps were found to be using an electronic chip in their dispensing machine to give lesser fuel to a customer than paid for.
 
 Senior manager for corporate communication, planning and coordination at   said, “The action against petrol pump dealers will be taken under marketing discipline guidelines ( ).“
 
 Anomalies were found at more than 20 petrol pumps in the city. These have been completely seized.
 
 According to oil companies, petrol pumps which have been seized used to sell around 100 kilolitres per month, which means there was heavy footfall of customers. If dealers do not abide by marketing discipline guideli nes, they will face stern action.
 
 The law related to these guidelines was first formulated in 1981-82 to help oil marketing companies maintain discipline in the operation of retail network and provide high customer service standards.
 
 “Petrol dealers have indulged in malpractices, a violation of the MDG law. Their licences will be cancelled and the retail outlets will be opened once the company directly takes charge to run the outlets,“   said.
 
 There are three types of petrol pumps in terms of ownership and operation. The first kind is owned by the company . Everything here is provided by the company, including land and infrastructure.
 
 In the second kind, land and structure are owned by the dealer while oil and machines are provided by companies. The third type is fully private. Land, infrastructure and oil, everything here is managed by private firms.
 
 There are 186 petrol pumps in Lucknow district. Of these 20 have been seized.
 
 According to officials, petrol pump machines found working properly have been calibrated and re-installed. Reports of seized machines have been sent to the district administration, oil companies and government.
 
