NAGPUR: A father, whose son was killed in a ghastly mishap after a police van allegedly knocked him down, has approached the judiciary praying for a fair and independent enquiry into the teenager’s death. Though the police registered it as an accidental case, the father relied on a post mortem report in his plea for justice before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.

 Ajinkya Nasre, who was pursuing BTech second year from   (RCOEM), met with the accident on July 28 last year at Raj Bhavan near Seminary Hills, when he was going to the college on his motorcycle. He succumbed to his head injuries before being brought to the hospital.
 
 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   issued a notice to commissioner of police (CP), DCP Zone-II and   officer, asking them to respond by June 21.
 
 Yuvraj Nasre through counsel Rajendra Daga contended that he had approached all the higher police authorities with their requests to reinvestigate the case, after post mortem reports confirmed that Ajinkya received 14 injuries and cause of death was head injury. 
 
 The 19-year-old was allegedly hit by a van (MH-31/AG-9425) which, according to the petitioner, was being driven rashly and excessively fast. The impact was so severe that, Ajinkya fell on the road and came under the front right wheel of the vehicle.
 
 After sustaining multiple injuries, he was lying on the road for some time till his three friends — Vikram Singhvi, Yash Jain and Varun Dhoot — who were passing by saw his body in the pool of blood. They requested the constable to immediately shift him to hospital, but after his refusal, they hired an auto rickshaw and admitted him to  , where he was declared brought dead.
 
 Naresh Khambalkar, who was driving the vehicle, then fled the spot and lodged a “false” report against the teenager under Sections 279 and 338 of IPC for rash and negligent driving at Gittikhadan police station. He claimed that Ajinkya’s vehicle was first hit by a cow after which he dashed against the divider.
 
 The post mortem report and photographs however showed traces of blood on front tyre of offending vehicle and also its paint was stuck on the deceased’s vehicle.
 
 The petitioner immediately brought it to the notice of respondents and also gave an application for re-enquiry into the incident on July 30 last year. He sought action against the driver and others present in the police vehicle. 
 
 When no action was taken, he made an   application on March 22 seeking progress of investigations. He made another application on April 13 to all respondents stating that no progress was made for over eight months into the incident. But failing to get response, he moved the judiciary to seek justice for his deceased son.
 
 (With inputs from Hitesh Gedam)
 
