Nagpur: Even as Pench officials have geared up to initiate ‘soft’ release of the Brahmapuri sub-adult tigress T27-C1 in Bor Tiger Reserve, Bori (Kokate) Gram Panchayat will pass a resolution on Monday opposing her entry into Bor. The local residents and farm labourers from Garamsur, Salai (Pevat), Hingni and Amgaon surrounding Bor got a chance to mobilize themselves to protest against the move owing to delay in release of the problem tigress. On Saturday, a group of 20 locals had approached the Bor reserve office opposing the decision. The tigress, which has killed two persons and injured five villagers who had ventured deep into the forests, was captured on July 10. For the last 15 days the tigress has been kept in an enclosure at Gorewada Rescue Centre. The state-level committee had given a go ahead to release the tigress on July 14, and had suggested to release the animal in eight days in an administratively suitable area. But the eight-day deadline has already passed. To see that the tigress retains it hunting skills, goats are being served as live bait to the tigress. TOI on Friday saw a goat being shifted in an autorickshaw inside the rescue centre. However, experts warn any such attempts will turn her towards villages. Wildlife experts say the decision to soft release the tigress may be with an aim to see that the animal assimilates with the area before release. However, any attempts to delay release will weaken its chances of being a fit candidate. The tigress is two-year-old and can hunt on its own. When the tigress was tranquillized, it was on a cattle it killed on its own. Generally, soft release is for young cubs that are trained for hunting prior to their release when they attain adulthood. Even NTCA SOP calls for ‘hard’ release in such cases, said experts. Besides, they feel soft release will take over a month. The installation of channel fencing will take at least 20 days or even more. As the project cost will be beyond Rs3 lakh, officials will have to float e-tender. Even if work is started, rains will make it difficult to complete in time. Even as villagers are up in arms, Wardha MLA Dr Pankaj Bhoyar has taken a neutral stand about the tigress release, especially after an assurance from PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra that in case of problem the tigress will be captured and caged. Talking to TOI on Sunday, MLA Bhoyar said, “I have been told that a state-level committee has taken a decision to release the tigress. Over 30 staffers will monitor the animal round-the-clock. Besides, the tigress’ movement will also be verified through satellite. As of now I have no issues.” However, sarpanch of Bori (Kokate) Roshan Maske said, “On Monday, the members are meeting and we will pass a resolution stating, ‘in case of any human kills or injury or cattle kills, entire blame will be of the forest department.’” “Even if the tigress will be released in relocated Navargaon, animals tend to stay near the dam waters where there is sizeable prey, water and hides,” said Maske.