Pune: Amid growing chorus on maintaining the status quo on ready reckoner rates, chief minister   on Wednesday said he was still “studying the situation”. 

 The RR rates are the market value of a property as determined by the government for payment of stamp duty during property transactions. The state government earns its second highest revenue from the registration and collection of stamp duty. The RR rates for the state are to be announced on April 1. 
 
 Responding to a query from TOI about the RR rates, the chief minister said he was still “studying the situation”.
 
 However, sources from the revenue department maintained that a hike in RR rates was imminent. 
 
 “The department has achieved only 70% of its revenue target till mid-March. Therefore, there is no option (for the government) but to go for the hike,” they said.
 
 When contacted, officials from the revenue minister Chandrakant Patil’s office said they would soon conduct a hearing of representations from all the districts in the coming week before taking a final decision. “If there will be a big increase or a small one, this will be known only after the meeting. But rest assured, the government will take a realistic approach before the finalizing the rates,” a senior officials from the revenue minister’s office said.
 
 Pune Credai president Shantilal Kataria said the present market scenario is challenging. “Increase in the RR rates would hamper the market,” he said, expressing displeasure about the way the RR rates are assessed.
 
 He said taking an average for the entire block is not the right method to decide the rates while urging the government to employ available technology to arrive to the final rates. Samantak Das, chief economist and national director research  , told TOI that it would be good if the government takes a realistic approach about the market situation. 
 
 “Only a realistic approach can give the necessary traction to the realty sector considering the lull the market is currently facing,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, real estate agent Rajan Anthony said the market has slowly started picking up. “Till last month, the buyers were waiting for the further fall in realty prices. Since that did not happen, now they are going in for secondary market or resale flats.”
 
