MOHALI: The Greater   Area Development Authority (GMADA) will axe around   to make way for a 150-ftwide motorway in sectors 117118 and 119 in Mohali. The authorities are is in the process of acquiring land for laying the road, said Sukhjit Pal Singh, additional chief administrator of  .
The authorities had conducted a survey and submitted the social-economic impact report to the principal secretary to the   government, department of housing and urban development, Chandigarh, in 2016. Since then the authority is yet to carry out the land acquisition process. According to the social impact report, far mers are set to lose 365 fruit-bearing trees like jamun, mango and guava due to the road-widening project.
 
 Another cluster of 135 timber trees will also be axed to make way for the road. The compensation for the fruit-bearing trees will be decided by the department of forests and the payout for the timber trees will be fixed by the department of horticulture.
 
 “The process of land acquisition is in pipeline for the road.The file has been sent to the government for approval. We will issue the notices for land acquisition. The social-economic impact report has been submitted to the government and the analysis reports about axing of around 500 trees for the project,“ said ACA Sukhjit Pal Singh. “The farmers will be compensated for the loss of trees in accordance with the norms. Once the project gets the government's nod, the work on estimates and award announcements will start,“ he added. The report also mentioned the positive and negative impacts of the project. The road work will improve connectivity to Chandigarh and reduce travel time. It will also boost the market value of land. The report lists out the negative impact of the project: Traffic snarls, congestion and increased risk of accidents during the construction period, rise in dust, pollution. There may be poor connectivity to the village during the peak construction period.
 
 However, the final assessment report mentioned that, “After examination of various parameters of cost and benefit, it is found that the construction of the 150-ft-wide road in sectors 117, 118, 119 will benefit the local community at large.
 
