CHENNAI: AIADMK suffers erosion in its support base in  , the citadel of the ruling camp for nearly two decades. The sudden   has left her supporters in a tight spot.  , especially women, are vocal about their dislike for Sasikala and are not averse to dumping the party's 'two leaves' symbol. A section of them may drift towards the rebel camp led by   (OPS), whereas some look at the DMK as an alternative. 

 The cloud of suspicion that has enveloped   is perceivable in every nook and cranny of the constituency. T T Ramadevi of Shastri Nagar in Tondiarpet says her family would not vote for Sasikala's AIADMK. "We are Amma loyalists. We find her death mysterious. We can't endorse Sasikala's nominee, even if the person contests on 'two leaves' symbol," the homemaker said. Her friends nodded in agreement. Take the case of S Saroja, 69, a resident of Ennore High Road. She has never voted for any symbol other than MGR's 'two leaves' in her life, but has resolved not to vote on April 12. "How will I support Sasikala after seeing her slamming Amma's burial site with her palm?"
 
 The predominant labour class in the constituency was hoping for an image makeover of their area after electing Jayalalithaa in a bypoll in 2015, after the Karnataka high court acquitted her in the assets case. The seat was held by erstwhile local strongman of the party, P K Sekar Babu, twice and subsequently by his rival P Vetrivel. He vacated it to pave the way for Jayalalithaa's re-entry into Fort St George. Jayalalithaa got a victory margin of 1.5 lakh votes then. R K Nagar's transformation into a VIP constituency saw the region getting good roads and LED street lights.
 
 A Sankar of New Washermenpet says, "We are surprised over the re-induction of Sasikala's family members, who were sidelined by Amma, into the party. Dinakaran was shunted out of her Poes Garden residence and we will not cast our votes for them."
 
 For some, OPS provides hopes. "Panneerselvam was the choice of our leader when she was in prison," S Kandasamy of J J Nagar says.
 
 Political novice Deepa Jayakumar, who seeks to inherit the legacy of her aunt, is not seen as a force to reckon with in R K Nagar. A few like K V Mohan of Korukkupet say they may even vote for the DMK. Two-time AIADMK MLA Sekar Babu, who switched loyalty to the DMK, remains popular in the locality. However, R K Nagar MGR Mandram deputy secretary M Ramesh refused to buy the argument. "The party is intact. It is Amma's seat and we will continue the winning streak in by-election," he said, pointing to the developmental work taken up in the constituency. However, party functionaries said they were aware of the need for tough campaigning.
 
