CHENNAI: The   government led by   is set to face another no-confidence motion. This time, it will be moved by the   against assembly speaker P Dhanapal -the first time that a speaker of the   has faced such a motion.

 On Tuesday, DMK working president   submitted a formal notice to assembly secretary A M P Jamaludeen and gave a copy to the speaker himself.
 
 Later, Stalin told reporters at the secretariat that the noconfidence motion against Dhanapal as per assembly rules should be taken up within 15 days. “Signatures of 34 of our MLAs are enough for issuing the notice,“ he said.
 
 What happens to the government if the motion is carried? “First of all, when the motion is moved in the assembly , the speaker cannot be in his seat. His deputy will have to lead the House. If the motion is passed, the speaker immediately loses his job and the assembly will have to find a new speaker. As such the government does not fall as the motion is only against the speaker,“ said former Lok Sabha secretary general Subhash Kashyap. But if the motion is passed, the party will not have the majority as the speaker is mostly from the ruling party , said Kashyap. There have been problems with the speaker in the Tamil Nadu assembly in the past too. When the DMK split in 1972 and M G Ramachandran formed the AIADMK, speaker K A Mathiazhagan was removed by the M Karunanidhi-led DMK government.
 
 Even then, historians say, the government or the opposition did not move a no-confidence motion against the speaker.
 
 “Mathiazhagan was removed following problems with Karunanidhi. Soon after Mathiazhagan adjourned the assembly, he was removed by party MLAs and a interim speaker was appointed. A new speaker was elected in the next session,“ Dravidian historian S Thirunavukkarasu told TOI. There has been no other occasion when a no-confidence motion was moved against the speaker, he said.
 
 “In the special session on February 18 for the trust vote, the speaker acted with ulterior motives. On that basis, given that there is no confidence in him, we have submitted the letter seeking a noconfidence motion against him,“ said Stalin.
 
 “When we see that the speaker is deliberately harping on his community to malign us, it is very regrettable. It is a matter of shame, according to us, for Tamil Nadu,“ the DMK leader had said on Monday.
 
