MADHOPATTI: Startling but true. This   has produced so may   that they can run the office of a prime minister or chief minister on their own.

 Madhopatti village in   district, which consists of 75 households, also has an astounding 47  . TV channel crews and reporters visit the village now and then. Otherwise, the place hardly gets noticed by anyone particularly the government agencies.
 
 Despite such a huge contribution for running the country's administrative ma chinery , the village has hardly been promoted, particularly on the developmental front. The place, which saw a little bit of development in the form of road and electricity in the recent past, otherwise remains a picture of utter neglect though it is situated just 5 km away from the city and about 2 km from the diversion on PratapgarhJaunpur two-way lanes.
 
 There is not even a single signboard nor there is any information about the village on the main road.
 
 The village also holds a unique record of four brothers being selected for IAS.  , who cracked civil service in 1955, retired as chief secretary of Bihar. His two brothers, Chatrapal Singh and Ajay Kumar Singh, cleared the exam in 1964.The fourth brother, Shashikant Singh, became IAS in 1968.
 
 Chatrapal also served as the chief secretary of Tamil Nadu. Talking about the first civil servant, from Mad hopatti Mustafa Hussain (father of poet Wamiq Jaunpuri), Girish Chandra Singh, a native of Madhopatti, who retired as divisional manager from Delhi Industrial Development Corporation, said, “He joined the civil services (the then Indian Civil Services, during British India) in 1914. And after Hussain saheb, the next person to clear the exam was Indu Prakash in 1952 and there was no looking back since then and now every youth aspires to join the elite cadre. In fact, at one time, four brothers got selected to the IAS cadre and one of them, Vinay Kumar Singh, retired as chief secretary of Bihar.“
 
 Kartikeya Singh, a teacher, said that “the credit of honing the skill of youngsters goes to Tilak Dhari Singh Post-Graduate Degree College of Jaunpur. Maximum number of IAS officers had pursued their basic studies in this college before opting for IAS and PCS examinations,“ said Girish Chandra Singh, who is the member of executive body of the college started by his ancestors way back in the year 1916. Another village youngster, Mayur Singh, said that the only thing that makes this village different from others is the fact that parents toil hard and encourage their wards to admire villagers who had already become officers.
 
 “It is this feeling, which elders of every household inculcate in their wards, who further work hard. The aspirants compete here with each other and ultimately perform better,“ said Vivek Yadav, a local.
 
 Despite 47 IAS officers and a sizeable number of PCS officers, the scene in this village is not quite rosy . It lacks basic amenities, including sanitation, health care and educational institutions, because of official apathy .
 
 In the name of healthcare facilities, there is only a subcentre in the area, where a nurse provides basic treatment to people. For serious illnesses or injuries, residents have to go to district Hospital, which 10 kilometers away from the village.
 
 There is no ATM booth in the area. So residents have to go to the nearest ATM several kms away to withdraw money . In the aftermath of demonetisation, their ordeal can well be imagined.
 
 The outer roads are in a dilapidated state, electric supply is even more erratic and there is not a single coaching centre for IAS aspirants.
 
