NEW DELHI: Delhi has come a long way since the  , set up after the   incident of December 2012, submitted its recommendations on strengthening the laws to curb crimes against women. Not only has police’s attitude in dealing with cases of sexual assault on women changed, but the action taken in such incidents has gone up substantially.

 Over the years, the amended laws have ensured that cops are duty-bound to assist rape survivors, beginning with the immediate registration of an FIR on receiving a complaint. Women can now also file complaints online — a slew of cases has already been registered based on emails sent to police — and to seek legal help from the police crisis cells. The growing awareness about the legal remedies has resulted in more women reporting incidents of   crimes.
 
 
  
 
 While asking for changes in law to make policemen duty-bound to help victims of sexual assault, the commission had also recommended that a rape crisis cells be set up at every police station to enable legal assistance to the survivor.
 
 In almost all metropolitan cities, CCTV cameras have been installed in police stations as laid out in the Verma   report. 
 
 In addition to women cops being posted at police stations to handle sexual offences, police personnel have also been trained specifically to deal with gender crimes.
 
 The recommendation of the panel, while underlining the protocols for the medical examination of victims of sexual assault, on the abolishing of the two-finger test, is, however, yet to be implemented fully. 
 
 The three-member panel headed by Justice Verma and comprising Leila Seth, former chief justice of Himachal Pradesh high court, and Gopal Subramanium, former solicitor general of India, constituted a few days after the outrage, had submitted its report on January 23, 2013. 
 
 It suggested several changes in the laws related to crime against women and enhanced the punishment for those convicted of sexual assault.
 
 The Verma Commission had scanned through 80,000 suggestions from people in India and abroad. The panel recognised that rape and molestation and even forms of sexual offences such as voyeurism needed to be punished with imprisonment up to seven years. Stalking or unwanted attempts to contact a person repeatedly was made punishable by imprisonment up to three years.
 
 Terming the failure of governance as the root cause of crimes against women, the panel had advised that rapes be treated as expression of power rather than a crime of passion. Any non-consensual penetration was to be treated as rape.
 
 
