Udhagamandalam: In a first, three Nilgiri lads — one from the Badaga community and two from the Toda community — have made it to the Indian team that will be vying for the MiniFootball World Cup-2017 trophy. The event will be held in Tunisia from October 6 to 15.

 B Sharan, 19, belongs to the Badaga community and hails from Ketti village along with P Nasmudi Kuttan, 22, and I Narthey Kuttan , 22—both from Toda community. The three had played in the national tournament conducted by the MiniFootball Association of India , held in Mumbai from September 8 to 10. They played for Tamil Nadu under the banner of Meeckeri Sports Academy, which is affiliated to the Tamil Nadu MiniFootball Academy.
 
 “Sharan, Nasmudi Kuttan and Narthey Kuttan represented the Tamil Nadu team along with other players in the national tournament. Tamil Nadu won the championship,” director of Meeckeri Sports Academy Raman Raghunath told TOI. “The three were selected for the MiniFootball World Cup by the MiniFootball Association of India. I am really overwhelmed that my lads were selected to the team,” he said.
 
 The three players were given intensive training for the last 10 years, Raghunath said. “They have played in several State-level and university-level matches in the last three to four years.” he said.
 
 MiniFootball is played by six players on one side. It has been played in India for the last seven years. As many as 24 countries, including India, France, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, USA, Spain, Tunisia and Mexico, will take part in the MiniFootball World Cup. India will play against Senegal on the first day of the match.
 
 “The boys have made the Nilgiris proud. My aim is to make them play in the India Super League,” Raghunath added.
 
 Sharan said he was thrilled to play in the international event. While Nasmudi Kuttan expressed happiness over the selection, Narthey Kuttan, known to be an astute goalkeeper, was too overcome with emotions to express his happiness. The trio is looking for sponsorship.
 
 
