LONDON: It was heartbreak for   on Centre Court in his first   final. The Croat, however, said he would take away the success he enjoyed in his charge to the title-round rather than dwell on the fact that he couldn't get his challenge going on Sunday.

 “These last two weeks have been great for me. My level (of tennis) was in a position where it hasn't been before on grass, I'm extremely satisfied with that. Extremely happy,” the 28-year-old, who started working with Swede Jonas Bjorkaman late last year, said. “This (making the final) will give me much more confidence, much more strength for the rest of the year. I know that my level can even go higher, so that is something that I'm looking forward to.”
 
 Cilic, who struggled with his serve in the final and his court coverage, said his badly blistered left foot had done him in. “Every time I had to act quickly, a fast change of movement, I was unable to do that. It was tough emotionally for me because of how much I went through the last few months to prepare for this tournament,“ Cilic, who sobbed into his towel at courtside midway through the second set, said. “It was also tough because of my own team. They did so much for me. I just felt it was really bad luck.”
 
 As bad as the pain was, Cilic, who won the US Open in 2014, said, he broke down only because he couldn't give his best on a big stage. “It was a feeling that I knew that I cannot give my best on the court, that I cannot give my best game and my best tennis, at this stage of my career, in such a big match. It was extremely difficult to accept it.”
 
 Cilic said he got a lot of help from the tournament's doctor and physio in the 30 hours leading up to the final.“Even when I was warming up for the match, I was trying to test myself in exercises with change of direction. I was too slow basically to react. I knew that it's going to be difficult. But I tried,” he said.
 
 “I felt it straight after the match in the semifinals (against  ) on Friday .I felt that the foot wasn't so good. We tried to take some fluid out overnight, and in the morning (on Saturday) it was worse. We kept it in the team. I was still hoping that everything was going to be good.”
 
 Cilic said he would take the next three weeks off and allow his foot to heal. “I plan to play in Montreal and Cincinnati,” he said of the run of tournaments leading up to the US Open in August. “I believe that by that time everything is going to be okay.”
 
