The dhoti-topor, red Benarasi-alta are still part of the rituals. But when it comes to the feast, the traditional Bengali wedding has come miles from the luchi-chholar dal-maachher kalia combo.
We've sampled everything from shawarma to pasta and sizzlers at the Bangali biyebaari over the past few years. Now, in a new twist to the menu this wedding season, get ready to bite into the non-veg phuchka. Stuffed with the lip smacking tastes of mutton and chicken keema or prawns, these made-to-order phuchkas are served only at marriages.
 
 “Making phuchka is my passion,“ says Dilip Shaw, who has created these unique snacks. When he's not preparing the phuchkas for weddings, Shaw runs a stall near   the year round, where his regular phuchkas and the dahi option have a huge fan base.
 
 STUFFING IS THE KEY
 
 Shaw says that the soul of the phuchka is the stuffing. The chicken phuchka, for example, has chicken keema. The keema is first boiled and cooked with onion-garlic paste and then mixed with boiled potato stuffing, chickpea, tomato and coriander.The price varies from `20 to `30 per piece. For mutton, the process is the same and costs around `30 to `50 per piece. He also serves interesting variations made with prawns, sweet corn and even a diabetic phuchka made with green banana paste stuffing.There is a phuchka, where the imli paani is replaced with fruit juice! But experimentation was far from his mind when Shaw started looking after his father's phuchka stall in the early '80s. For the next two decades, he sold the normal Bengali phuchka and the dahi variety around  . But things changed in 2002, when one of Shaw's loyal customers -the member of a posh south Kolkata club -asked him to set up a phuchka stall at the club's New Year party .
 
 The only condition was that the snack had to be really tasty. When he learnt that most of the club's members were non-vegetarian and loved their tipple, he took a chance and served the mutton phuchka, which became a talking point at the party.A TASTE TO REMEMBER He started getting offers to serve the delectable morsels at many parties and after tinkering with many recipes, he came up with the special phuchkas he makes on order today . The wedding offers have been coming for some time now and Shaw gets 20 to 25 such contracts every marriage season. “On an average, 20 out of 100 people ask for nonveg phuchkas. A lot of people are still not sure if the guests will like the taste, but those who've tasted it once can't forget it,“ says Shaw. Atrei Ghosh, who got married in 2014, was a regular at Shaw's stall with her present husband and then boyfriend, Abhijit. The two of them studied at   and often went to Vivekananda Park to have phuchka. They loved it so much that Atrei ordered chicken and mutton phuchkas at her wedding.“They were awesome and the guests loved it,“ remembers Atrei.
 
 PANEER PHUCHKA
 
 Price: Rs 15 per piece Finely chopped pieces of cottage cheese are cooked in tomato and onion-garlic and mixed with traditional potato stuffing
 
 DIABETIC PHUCHKA
 
 Price: Rs 6 per piece Instead of potatoes, boiled green bananas are mashed with chickpea, coriander and other spices to prepare the stuffing
 
 CORN PHUCHKA
 
 Price: Rs 15 per piece Boiled sweet corn is used instead of potatoes.Interestingly, instead of imli paani, fruit juice is used as the dip
 
