Panaji: The North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) has proposed a rehabilitation centre to treat drug addiction and alcoholism in its outer development plan (ODP). The new ODP for Calangute area, which is expected to be out shortly, has earmarked a 7,500sq m area under survey number 47 in Calangute. Michael Lobo, chairman of NGPDA confirmed the provision to set up the rehab centre saying it is much needed. “There are lot of young girls and boys who take drugs. The problem is not limited to my constituency alone,” said Calangute MLA. Goa does not have a dedicated drug rehabilitation centre, except the one operated by an NGO, Kripa at Anjuna, which treats alcoholics. The addiction problem whether drugs or alcoholism, appears grave but so far no study has been instituted in Goa to get a gauge of the drugs or alcohol addiction problem in the state. The 25-bed Kripa centre is grossly inadequate to take in any increase in addiction cases. Doctors at the Mapusa district hospital attend toapproximately 5-8 new alcoholism cases daily. Lobo said that parents who are looking to cure their children of addiction send them to locations outside Goa. “They send their children either to Belgaum or Pune, and some to Bengaluru. I had referred some cases to Belgaum. Many times parents approach me on behalf of their children, when (the cases of) addiction intensifies. The problem is very serious,” Lobo said. A doctor practicing at the Mapusa district hospital said, “It is high time that an in-depth study is carried out.” The number of alcoholics they attend to, outnumber drug addicts. “There has to one rehab centre each, for North Goa and South Goa,” he said. Addiction to harmful substances like drugs is an expensive social problem, said a staffer at a centre run by Positive People in Calangute. The centre has listed about 674 hardened drug-users, while the active members on its list are 277.  The centre offers counselling as well as oral substitution therapy for injecting drug users, as part of the de-addiction process. A minimum stay of one month is required if a drug user has to come clean.  “There is no such facility available in Goa. Parents with money enroll their children at drug rehabilitation centres outside Goa,” he said. Piyush Salgaonkar (name changed), all of 20-something, has been trying to give up drugs with the help of OST for the last one month. He said his elder brother was able to come clean after his mother enrolled him at a rehab centre in Bengaluru. Lobo said the proposed rehabilitation centre will have all the facilities that would help inmates leave their addiction. “We are yet to decide on it (whether the government or an NGO would operate it) but the centre would be set up in Calangute,” Lobo said.