Mysuru: Residents of Mysuru, recovering from the downpour on Tuesday night and Wednesday, heaved a sigh of relief as there were only mild showers on Thursday. 

 But the recent heavy rainfall had made life miserable for residents of a few localities as well as commuters.
 
 The city received 89.96 mm on Tuesday and   of Srirampura, Hinkal, Bogadi, Kanakagiri and a few others were inundated, forcing fire force personnel to use rubber boats to evacuate residents to safer places.
 
 On Thursday, flood-affected people cleaned their houses of the dirt which entered their buildings along with rain water, corporators and civic agency officials cleared the blocked drains to prevent flooding in future.
 
 Srirampura, which was the worst affected area, also returned to normal. Ward corporator Kempanna said that over the past two days, he had been helping residents. “Nearly 200 houses were inundated due to  . Along with MCC staff and local volunteers, we have taken up removing silt from drains. Deputy commissioner Randeep visited the ward and assured us that the encroachments and illegal constructions would be removed soon. If encroachments on rajakaluve are removed, residents needn’t worry about flooding during rain,” he said. His house too was inundated on Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile, Bogadi Lake off the ring road, which breached on Wednesday inundating surrounding areas including the ring road causing disruption to vehicular traffic the whole day, is back to normal.
 
 Sharadadevi Nagar ward corporator JS Jagadeesha said the situation is normal, but on Wednesday due to breach of the lake there was panic among residents. “The district administration has assured us it will develop the lake and remove the encroachments,” he said.
 
 But residents of Kanakagiri Layout in GunduRao Nagar ward at the foothills of Chamundi Hills which was flooded, is still recovering. Layout resident and social worker Shantha Veerendra Swamy said due to widening work on Mysuru – Nanjangud Road, the roadside drain had been directed towards the layout which caused flooding.
 
 “There was a proposal for construction of drain under JnNURM a few years ago in the area, but despite the government allotted funds for the drain, the work was not taken up and the funds were returned. We have once again given a proposal for work to be taken under the AMRUT programme,” he said. 
 
 MCC deputy commissioner (development) BK Suresh Babu said development of drains through JnNURM project has helped the city from worse flooding. “We have seen cities affected badly due to heavy rain in the past. But due to the development of Bannimanatap and Hebbal valley a few years back, flooding has been prevented,” he said.
 
 But he lamented that the government has approved development of six valleys in the city including Bannimantap, Hebbal and Dalvoy. “But citing no funds for the huge project, the government took up the development of only Bannimantap and Hebbal at a cost of Rs 125 crore in the first phase and the remaining was decided to be taken up in a phased manner,” he said.
 
 But as the government’s policies changed over the years, priorities too have changed. The development of storm water drain which was the first priority has slipped to fifth position, while drinking water, UGD, and others have become top priorities.
 
 Suresh Kumar said that apart from taking up development of storm water drains, there is an urgent need to demolish unauthorized layouts and buildings. The encroachments on rajakaluves and drains should be removed.
 
 “The deputy commissioner has taken up the issue seriously and has formed a team which will conduct a survey of encroachments. The illegal constructions will be demolished soon,” he said.
 
 
