Gurgaon: Union road transport and highways minister   and Haryana chief minister   are likely to jointly inaugurate the newly built   next week. The National Highways Authority of India ( ) is also looking for a suitable venue in the city for the grand inauguration event.

 The Gurgaon-Jaipur side of the flyover has already been opened to traffic. And, around July 25, the Jaipur-Delhi side of the flyover will also open, which will reduce the traffic load at the existing crossing to a large extent, NHAI officials said. The construction work was completed a few days back and authorities have also completed the load testing of the eight-lane flyover. Streetlights are being currently installed and the work will be completed in the next two days.
 
 “Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Khattar are likely to jointly inaugurate the flyover. The district administration is also looking for an appropriate venue for the inauguration function, expected around July 25,” an NHAI official told TOI on Thursday.
 
 A district administration official said Tau Devi Lal Stadium would have been the ideal venue for such a mega event, but “the stadium gets waterlogged during rains”. 
 
 “We cannot count on Tau Devi Lal stadium in this monsoon season. The venue for the event will be finalised in the next two to three days,” said the official.
 
 Along with the Union minister and chief minister, several state ministers and MLAs will also be present during the inauguration event, officials said.
 
 Once fully operational, the flyover will benefit the residents of the areas around the flyover and new sectors. 
 
 Around 40,000 to 50,000 vehicles are expected to use the flyover, which will cater to heavy traffic from Pataudi, Jaipur, Manesar, Delhi and parts of northern Gurgaon.
 
 The eight-lane, 1.4-km-long flyover was constructed as part of three-layer crossing — flyover, underpass and existing roads — at Hero Honda Chowk. Work on construction of the underpass is also on fast track. In fact, work on the underpass and the flyover picked up pace after waterlogging led to Gurujam at the crossing in July last year.
 
 Construction of the Rs 197.84 crore project began in November 2014, and was expected to be completed by May 2017. But initially, it slowed down due to delay in clearance of land required for the project. Litigation, and lack of coordination between departments, delayed the clearance of the land needed for the project.
 
 
