MUMBAI: Sixteen years after Arjuna awardee and   medallist   received calls threatening to kidnap his son, the two accused have been acquitted since they could not be identified by the   owing to the lapse of time.

 The main accused,  , who is alleged to have made the calls and was present to collect the money , died during the course of the trial.
 
 Acquitting cousins Manoj and Ganesh Rajjak, the magistrate court held that it has not been established that besides Jadhav, the two were present at the spot when money was handed over and the police allegedly caught the accused red-handed.
 
 “Cawas Billimoria has not identified the accused persons who were present in the court at the time of his evidence and stated that due to lapse of 16 years period, he is unable to recognize the accused persons,“ the court said. Manik Raja, a panch witness, had also contested that the two were pre sent at the spot.
 
 Billimoria, employed with a big corporate house, used to stay with his family on Peddar Road. On September 24, 2001, at about 8.15am, his father received a call from an unknown person on their landline.“Tumhare baba ko tennis khelne ko jate samay utha lenge aur use khatam ka renge,“ he threatened.
 
 When his father told Billi moria about the call, he rushed home. He installed a caller identification facility on the phone and it showed the number from which the call had been made. The following day , the family received a second call at noon from the same number, and the caller identified him self as “Rahul“. He demanded Rs 10 lakh.
 
 Another call came from Rahul on September 26, and he asked Billimoria to come to the bus stop at   with the money . Rahul instructed him to hand over the money to a person who shows a Rs 10 note bearing a specific number.
 
 Billimoria immediately shared the information with the Anti-Extortion Cell. The police decided to set a trap, and told the court the accused were arrested while receiving the money .
 
 Manoj said he was falsely implicated as there was an altercation with the cops when he went to the police station after his cousin was arrested.Ganesh claimed he was picked up after he argued with cops when he was returning home at midnight. He said the cops, dressed in plain clothes, asked him for his name and address and since he could not prove them, an argument ensued.
 
 The prosecution submitted that since more than a decade had lapsed at the time of Billimoria's deposition in court, it was natural for him not to be able to identify the accused. The defence contended that when the star witness had failed to identify the accused and even the witness present at the spot had only spoken about the presence of the dead Jadhav at the spot, the case was not proved.
 
