 and his director-father   will flag off the ' ' sequel in Mumbai on Friday, February 3, along with leading ladies   and   Pannu. It's a red-letter day for the team because the original 'Judwaa' was unveiled in the theatres 20 years ago, on February 7. "We wanted to start the journey again around the same time, it's the right time," asserts David. The film is being produced by   and has a date with the box-office on September 29.

  
  
 "'Judwaa' is the biggest film I have done. I'm a die-hard fan of the original movie so this day is special anyway. Now, I just want to put my head down and be a part of the vision Sajid sir and dad have for the sequel," says a visibly overwhelmed Varun who revives  's unforgettable twin track two decades later.
 
 David recalls kick starting the original with a song that would go on to become a chart topper. "This was the first time I was working with Sajid and Salman. The latter was full of masti as we began with 'Chalti Hai Kya Nau Se Barah' which was a highpoint in the film," he flashbacks.
 
 Sharing his plans for a double celebration, he informs that friends will be dropping by and will stay for lunch. "We have erected a big set and a lot of dancers have been hired," he adds.
 
 He insists the feel of the feel-good rom-com will remain the same but the script has been written in sync with today's times. But they have retained two of  's hit songs, 'Chalti Hai Kya Nau Se Barah' and 'Oonchi Hai Building' and will record three new tracks. He's all praise for   and Taapsee who he describes as 'commercially strong girls'. Taapsee made her   debut with his 'Chasme Baddoor' remake in 2013. Varun has also teamed up with his dad in the 2014 comic caper, 'Main Tera Hero'. "He is a star today but will always remain my son," the proud dad beams. "Actually more than a son, he is a friend. He's easy to work with. During 'Main Tera Hero' I was a bit hesitant about directing him but we developed a great working equation. We are both focussed and now I'm looking forward to work with my son."
 
 Buzz is, Salman will be making a guest appearance? "Salman is all heart. When we need him, he'll be there, but let's get started first," he says dodging the question. However, he goes on to reveal that after Mumbai they move to London. "It's very cold there now so we will start that schedule in April and continue till May," he points out.
 
 For Sajid it's like there has been no 20-year lapse. He points out that given the kind of love it has received, makes the team excited about the new journey. "Working with David and Varun in the same film makes it even more special," he signs off with a smile.
 
  
  
 
  
  
