The mercurial weather lords don’t seem to have any intention to let go of the winter chills yet even though the tradition claims that it is time to bid adieu to winter on  . This is the time when people of all age groups are seen screaming ‘Woh kaat’ and ‘O paar,’ and this season, the kites in the city skies are wearing some different hues…

 
 
 Whether it is crackers or kites, Hindi film industry has always ruled the hearts. And this dream run continues this Makar Sankranti too. A kite shop owner at Gajanan Square, near Sakkardara, Vicky Rakhade, says, “Kites with the pictures of Bollywood films and its superstars are a big hit. Shah Rukh Khan in his Raees avatar, Salman in his Sultan look are quite popular. Since there is a lot of interest among the cinegoers about Katappa and Bahubali, the Bahubali 2 kites are also in demand.”
 
 
 
 The outgoing American president Obama is another popular kite that will soar high on Nagpur’s horizon today. Modi kites have been popular for a couple of years, and this year too, the Indian PM has remained a popular choice. “What is different this year is the cost factor,” says Vicky and adds, “There has been a steep increase in the kites’ price this year. The kites that were sold for `20 last year, have been sold for `25 this year. And when you calculate this increase in term of much bigger kites, the difference is quite a lot, compared to last year.”
 
 
 PM Modi’s   mantra is reflected aptly in the designs of so many kites. Pranay Tiwari, a kite retailer, shares, “Almost 30-35 young per cent buyers have picked up the kites reflecting the cashless mantras. I think this is people’s way of expressing their different emotions —whether anger or happiness —over demonetisation.”
 
 
 Kites dedicated to Maratha warrior Shivaji remain some of the most expensive ones in the city. Pranay reveals, “Firstly, these kites are huge and very few in number, so the hardcore fans and followers of Shivaji Maharaj in the city bid for a kite, whenever there are more takers than the available product. The price range mostly begins at `700 and the bidding even goes up to `1800 in certain cases.” He adds, “Nagpur’s Ganga-Jamuni culture has been all-encompassing and it is heartening to see people of different religions opting for the kites dedicated to  .”
 
