MUMBAI: A   living on the streets rescued a   who was being repeatedly sexually abused by a man and helped him lodge a  . The deposition of both boys has now helped nail the   accused,  , who was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment by a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Thursday.

 The informant lived under a railway bridge at the time of the incident in 2015. The witness said he and many other children had no families and many of them were addicted to drugs.
 
 He said he knew the accused and the victim through an NGO that supported them. The trio slept on the footpath. He said in the wee hours of September 29, 2015, he saw the accused sexually assaulting the boy. 
 
 He further stated that fearing the accused, who was a drug addict and aggressive, he kept quiet. The witness said the next morning, when the accused left the place, he immediately spoke to the victim who in turn confided that he was being abused for nearly two weeks.
 
 In a bid to save the victim from further assaults, the witness then took the child to another place close by. He said the accused came there too and confronted the victim. He insisted on taking the victim back to their previous abode. However, the witness refused to let the victim go. When the victim told the accused he did not want to go along due to the sexual assault, the accused slapped him. A person who was serving food at a dargah nearby saw the victim crying and asked him what had happened. The witness then told the man about the sexual assault. The man in turn called the cops and took them to the police station. The witness lodged the complaint.
 
 The witness denied the defence claims that he too was addicted to drugs and hence was not conscious at the time of the alleged incident. The child said that he was not a drug addict.
 
 Besides the statements of the informant, the witness and the man who they confided in, the court also relied on the deposition of another man. “There is no reason for (the) informant to falsely implicate (the) accused in the present case. All the main witnesses of prosecution corroborate with each other. The medical evidence is also corroborated with the testimony of victim,” the court said.
 
 
 
 
