AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to form a special purpose vehicle for the heritage in the city. A proposal has been forwarded for the standing committee for finalizing the name and even forming the SPV. The formation of the SPV will then close the heritage cell which is operation in the AMC and is expected to further help the city in making its claim stronger in the   for the world heritage city status. Its is worth mentioning that in September 2016, a UNESCO team had visited Ahmedabad to evaluate if the city deserves a world heritage status. The SPV is in the interest of the city to get the UNESCO Tag, said the officer.

 The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has submitted an application in UNESCO for granting of world heritage city tag. A team headed by Adel Farhangi Shabesstari, a south Asia expert of the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) was in the city on a five day visit on a "tentative nomination technical evaluation mission" for the city's demand for the heritage city tag.
 
 Officials said that proposal forwarded for the formation of the SPV states that the technical evaluation of the dossier was in the final stages. The proposal further UNESCO has not laud emphasis on the age of the structure but has sought to know what measures were for the conservation of these heritage struct and also sought to know if the outstanding universal value of the heritage structure was preserved for not.
 
 The proposal forwarded to the standing committee stated that for the conservation of the heritage a management plan was required. Also there was a need to involve people in the conservation. The State Government approved   also stated that the people must be given tradeable development rights to encourage them for conservation.
 The proposal stated that the AMC to give better facilities has formed several SPV like   From Development Corporation, Ahmedabad Janmarg among others and hence for the conservation of the heritage in the city, the heritage SPV would be helpful.
 
 The proposal stated that the AMC can name the trust as   trust. The trust would have nine members of which the standing committing chariman, recreating committee chairman and the chairman of the   would be the member iof the trust. The trust would have experts and citizens also as the member. The trust will also be able to get funds under the CSR which can be utilized for the conservation and since this would be trust it would be the donation to the this trust would be exempted in income tax. The trust will be responsible for preparing the local area development plan, suggest changes in GDCR for conservation, prepare heritage master plan among others.
 
