Chennai: Lokesh Honna’s forefathers were brought in by Tipu Sultant from Mandya district to weave silk and cotton attire for the royal family. Over the years, Kodiyala, the traditional weave of Honna’s family has lost significance with their sarees being sold across the country as Tamilnadu cotton sarees. Today, with the help of Savitha Suri, a communications consultant who is deeply invested in textile and crafts revival, the Kodiyala is staging a comeback through the internet. Be it the Kodiyala, Goa’s Kunbi saree or Siddipet’s gollabhama, rare weaves are being picked up by avid   lovers across the globe as   slowly embrace social media.

 Weavers from villages such as Pochampally, Puttapakka take to social media to expand in other geographies. Facebook platform Weaver Connect aggregates over 100 from Telengana and Andhra Pradesh. The group serves as a platform to directly connect products of weavers to consumers.
 
 “Before the platform was set up, we were getting customers from Hyderabad and other locations based out of Andhra Pradesh and Telengana. Now, we get frequent orders from Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata within the country and the Telugu community living abroad in US, UK and Australia form our customer base,” said Sriram Kema, co-founder, Weavers Connect and PeakcockDeals. He adds that the portal sees a 50% increase in the number of buyers post them getting on social media. Half of the sarees sold are woven by Kema’s father, a master weaver in the village.
 
 In Udipi, weavers were struggling with unsold stock of over 125 sarees last year. Over the last one year, they have managed to sell over 2100 sarees through Facebook groups such as Kai Thari with the help of Savitha Suri who works with artisans across states to create sustainable development models through Anvaya.
 
 “We assess their needs first so we know what to address. Fair trades create visibility for the weavers. We also invest in training them on using the internet, packaging, taking photographs from the phone and sending them on WhatsApp, reading purchase orders etc. Each set of weavers have certain comfort levels and we have to work around that to help them,” said Suri.
 
 Galaiah Thumma & Praveen Thumma, based out of Siddipet in Andhra Pradesh are part of a community that has invested over 50 years weaving single ikkat, gollabhama, muthyampet and maddikaya, all unique to Siddipet. “We have 50-60 weavers engaged in this work. Sales are moderate because the government buys through mediators who take hefty commissions,” said Praveen Thumma. Over the last few months, they have been able to tap into Facebook through a TATA BSS - Anvaya partnership to drive awareness and sales.
 
 For Honna, it is not just about economic sustainability. “For over centuries, my family has been weaving the kodiyala. We have now reduced from 500 families to just 1 family. We dont have market access or funds to be part of exhibitions,” said Honna. For the past few months, Honna has been working with Suri to create visibility and revive the weave.
 
  
  
