AURANGABAD: Stern action has been planned against director of education (higher)   for his alleged role in the recruitment scam at  , but all eyes are now on course of action against those who benefited from the process to fill up 53 posts. 

 A section of local public representatives have sought the dismissal of the staff concerned, many of those who were recruited have defended their selection.
 
  MLA Sanjay Shirsath said Bamu should carry out fresh recruitment by terminating services of those who joined the university then.
 
 "Not only did the policy of social reservation went for a toss, but the principle of merit-based selection was compromised during the controversial recruitment. Fresh recruitment, therefore, could ensure justice to candidates who were rejected," he said. 
 
 Shankar Ambhore, an office-bearer of the Maharashtra Underprivileged Teachers Association ( ), said the government should act against the beneficiaries of the recruitment.
 
 As per Bamu records, Mane during his over four-year tenure as registrar, was part of 127 recruitments. It includes five posts of class I staffers, 26 posts of class II staffers, 94 class III staffers and two class IV staffers.
 
 A class I officer, who was part of recruitment in question, said besides Mane, a few other government officials were part of procedure followed for filling up posts.
 
 "Written test and personal interviews were conducted following shortlisting of applications after scrutiny. The panel that was part of all this screening, also included regional education department officials. The government later endorsed our appointments. It is wrong to raise question over selection process now," he said, preferring anonymity. 
 
 Another staffer said they were drawing salary from the government since the appointment.
 
  "It is proof that our appointments are legal," he said, adding that legal option would be contemplated if any harm is caused to their services.
 
 P V Jabde, officiating registrar of Bamu, refused to get drawn into the controversy. "I took charge only in July last year and not aware about the chain of events that took place related to recruitment concerned. We will wait for directives, if any, to be issued by the government," he said.
 
 
