 vs  . Trump vs immigrants: this summarized the mood in the “nation of the immigrants“ before the swearing-in of the 45th  , Donald J Trump.

 And when it comes to “immigrants“, India can't be far behind as the country accounted for a sharp rise in illegal settlers in the US in 2015-16. That and the possibility of the US tightening the screw on H1B visa rules together paint a not-so-encouraging picture for Indians with the American dreams.
 
 But Indians seem divided over the issue. While the likes of Sreeroop Sen and Mahasweta Mukherjee, who have migrated to the US from Kolkata, are confident those with legal documents would not face any trouble by Trump's visa decision, others, like Diya, Supratip, Avik and Indrani, seemed rather apprehensive about what lies ahead for them.
 
 Fulbright Scholar and teaching professional Diya Bose, a resident of California Bay Area, said, “Being brown, I have never been more scared to live here than before, including after 911.“
 
 IIM-C graduate Avik Saha, who has been in the US for the past two years, echoed Diya's fear. “We are already confronted with hate mails and racist comments in public places. The disposition of some American colleagues seem to have changed,“ said Saha, who works at an MNC. “Even those of us working here legally are scared that some ill-informed American might harm us. This is because Trump has created an impression among a section of Americans that most, if not all, foreign workers are illegal; that Americans are losing their jobs to them; that they are rapists, a security threat to the country .“
 
 Supratip, a senior official at another MNC, pointed out after Trump's victory , racism--subtle, blatant or structural--was getting normalized. “When the president says Muslims are terrorists and Mexicans rapists, it makes such thoughts legitimate to a lot of people.About the impact on immigrants, whether or not Draconian policies are officially stamped remains to be seen, but the lives and livelihood of the vast population of such workers are at peril.“
 
 An enterprise engineer for 10 years in the US, Sreeroop Sen, an H1-B visa holder, however, isn't quite scared. “I have seen people coming here on the much-coveted L1 or H1 visa to be a resource manager. This is where I support Trump: immigration policies.“ Like him, Mahasweta Mukherjee, Sudeshna Chakraborty and Sudeshna Basu Sen believe Trump will make “ America great again“. Mahasweta sums it up: “Initially, we were a little concern. But seeing his plan of action on economic growth, restructuring taxation and bringing jobs back, we have pinned our hopes on his medical policy and economic reform. We believe he can bring major changes to the land for a better future.“
 
 But even a high-skilled worker with the coveted L1 visa is apprehensive: “Those who want to apply for citizenship are apprehensive. It's not clear if they'll put a cap on visas for visitors.“
 
 (The correspondent was in the US during the polls as a participant of Edward Murrow Fellow programme)
 
