Ever thought of having a wind chime made of wine bottles or a cheese platter made from a flattened alcohol  ? Artists in the city are coming up with ingenious ways to upcycle   bottles that would’ve otherwise ended up in a landfill, and their creations have caught our fancy.
With no or very little training in glass bottle cutting and etching, these artists have now mastered the art with practice and trial and error method. Manveen Kaur, Founder of Hobby In A Box, says that with the help of some online videos, she learnt to cut glass bottles, but to master the art, she experimented a lot and got the desired results. “Not everything we see online is true. Some videos may look easy, but practically it may be very difficult. It wasn’t a smooth ride initially,” she says.
 Others, like Nirmala Murali Mohan, Founder of Gilas by Nirmala, however, chanced upon a class on bottle fusing, which she attended while she was in the US. “I attended a one-day class that introduced me to the art of bottle fusing. I learnt most of it on my own after watching videos online and doing some research,” she says.
 
 
 For Nirmala, getting her kiln and tools were a huge challenge as these were not readily available here. “Glass fusing is not very popular in India. I had to order the kiln from the US. After I received my kiln, I realized there was a lot to learn. There is a lot of physics and chemistry involved in the entire process,” Nirmala says. Saarus Nirhali, Founder of Glasshopper, says that it isn’t easy to cut glass and get the desired results and this sometimes results in injuries. “There have been times when I’ve cut myself in the process and lost a lot of blood,” she adds.
 
 
 So where do they source the bottles from, you wonder? Pubs and clubs along with generous friends come to their rescue. “Clubs and bars are more than happy to get rid of these bottles. I often source my wine and whisky bottles from such places,” says Saarus. Krittika Shrivastava, Owner of Art Box, says that most of the bottles she uses are either given to her by her friends or she gets them from the kabadiwalla. Krittika, unlike others, doesn’t cut glass bottles or does bottle etching but instead paints them and does  .
 Manveen, who often conducts workshops in the city, says that she never provides people with glass bottles. “While conducting a workshop, we provide the bottle cutters or raw materials for the etching process. Most of the times people get their own bottles,” she adds.
 Eco-friendly, zero wastage is their mantra
 These artists don’t believe in any form of wastage and utilize every inch of the material that they get. “Glass unlike plastic doesn’t degenerate soon. It takes years for glass to decompose completely. Hence, I make sure that I use every part of the bottles in one way or another,” adds Nirmala. While the top half of the bottles can be used for a wind chime, the lower part of the bottles can be used as a pen or a brush stand, thereby, resulting in zero wastage, says Saarus.
 
 
 Over the past few years, people have recognized their art and this has given them more visibility. Some of them participate in flea markets and exhibitions whereas others conduct workshops on a regular basis. “People were aware of the upcycling concept but it wasn’t done aesthetically. It’s only of late that they have realized that glass bottles can be used for home décor and beautifying your surroundings,” says Saarus, who has worked with architects and restaurants.
 
 - Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
 
