MEERUT: The district  , which has seen a series of communal clashes in the past month, denied permission to Congress vice-president   to visit the regions hit by violence. According to official sources, the decision was taken to avoid any further flare-up in the district in general and the affected villages in particular.
 
  BSP chief Mayawati’s visit on Tuesday had sparked a fresh round of violence in several villages that left dozens injured and one dead, and led to suspensions and transfers of top police and administrative officials including the Saharanpur district magistrate (DM), senior superintendent of police (SSP), deputy inspector general of police (DIG) and commissioner.
  
  Speaking to TOI, newly appointed DM   said, “We have seen what happened after the last VIP visit. After all, it is a matter of the law and order situation and we cannot allow it to deteriorate further. Our priority is to bridge the trust gap between different communities. We have communicated to the Congress leadership that we cannot give permission to anyone to visit Saharanpur under the current circumstances.”
  
  The Congress reacted sharply to the denial of permission. UP   (UPCC) spokesperson   said, “How can they not allow Rahulji to visit Saharanpur to meet victims of the violence? If they (state government) cannot contain clashes, it is a failure on their part. How can they stop a national leader from visiting the places affected? This action of the government is deplorable.”
  
  Naseeb Singh, AICC member and Western UP in-charge of the Congress told TOI over phone, “We are formulating our strategy after the denial of permission. They cannot stop us like this. But a decision will be taken only after thorough discussions.”
  
  Meanwhile, the Saharanpur district administration has made it amply clear that no politician of any opposition party will be allowed to enter Saharanpur until the situation improves.
  
  A senior district administration official said on condition of anonymity, “Mayawati’s visit on Tuesday was a big mistake that led to the spiralling of fresh violence in rural Saharanpur. This then triggered the suspension and transfers of the entire brass of district and police administration. Allowing Rahul Gandhi in could be inviting unnecessary trouble.”
  
  Several houses of Thakurs were allegedly set on fire minutes before Mayawati reached Shabbirpur village to meet victims of the May 5 violence. By the time the BSP leader left, the violence had spread. 
 
 More than a dozen people returning from her public meeting were allegedly attacked with guns and bladed weapons. About half-a-dozen persons were critically injured and had to be moved to Meerut Medical College, while a Dalit youth was shot dead.
