 was born and brought up in Delhi. So when someone says that the capital is all about crime, road rage and traffic jams, Sidharth says that it sometimes gets difficult to defend the city because the stats and the crime rate support it. However, the   alumnus says that not everyone from the city can be judged according to that, and adds that while being from Delhi, he "turned out fine."

  The actor, who was recently in the city, talks about his college days, doing stunts in films and the importance of following traffic rules.
 
  
  Sidharth Malhotra
 
 
  
 Sidharth says that he gets disheartened every time Delhi is in the news for a crime, especially against women. "I don't feel happy when people say that Delhi is not safe for women. But then, when you see how the crime rate is alarmingly high, it becomes really difficult to defend your own city. Having said that, I think there are true gentlemen here too. I was born and brought up in Delhi, and I turned out fine. And the majority of Delhi boys who I meet in Mumbai are extremely well-behaved. It’s unfortunate that the northern belt, especially Delhi, has that branding, which is not totally false," Sidharth says.
 
  
  
 
  He adds, "If I had to suggest something, I would urge all the fathers to watch their behaviour, since kids learn from how their dads behave with women. If we are careful while bringing up our kids, I think no man will ever misbehave with a woman. The fathers need to be taught a big lesson in Delhi and north India, and they should make sure that their sons behave well."
 
  
 Sidharth was shooting for his film at India Gate when he joined hands with the   to raise awareness about road safety. "I was here shooting for 'Aiyaary', when I also did a road safety campaign with the Delhi Traffic Police. It's good to see that we had many youngsters involved. Following traffic rules is a very individual trait - wearing seatbelts or helmets. Everyone is a citizen of the country and it's unfortunate that someone has to repeatedly tell people here to follow traffic rules. Schools can play a big role in inculcating civic sense in kids. They should be taught from a young age about the importance of following traffic rules and road safety norms," Sidharth says.
 
  The actor also mentioned the recent case when a Delhi boy was killed in a crash while riding a superbike. "It's unfortunate that these accidents happen when youngsters are reckless and take things lightly. One should have a proper safety gear in place before riding these big superbikes. Handling such bikes needs prior training," says Sidharth, who himself owns a 300-kilo bike.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Sidharth recalled his growing up years when he would hang out in GK Market and Saket. "I have not stayed in Delhi for the last 8-10 years, so a lot of things have changed. I grew up in south Delhi, so my favourite haunts were GK Market and Defence Colony market. And when I was doing my graduation from Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, I would often visit Saket to catch up on the latest films and get some good food. These are pretty much the places where majority of my hanging out has been," he says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
