PANAJI: The   and the   will be denied the chance to see their favourite football team participate in the biggest tournament of their lives.
 
  Aizawl FC stunned the world by defying unbelievable odds to script the most remarkable story in Indian football. Their stunning   triumph earned them the right to represent India at the   Champions League play-off next season, and if they fail to qualify, the AFC Cup. But while there is no doubt that Aizawl will create history by being the first team from the northeast to reach so far, they will not have the luxury of playing in front of their passionate home fans.
  
  Aizawl will need to obtain an AFC licence to participate in continental championships and they are certain to fall short due to unavailability of an AFC-approved stadium in Mizoram. The Rajiv Gandhi Stadium in Aizawl where the club play their league matches does not meet the necessary specifications to host Asian competitions.
  
  “The club licensing procedure will start in August. We need to see where Aizawl stand after that and act accordingly. Their stadium will be inspected too. Most likely, the stadium won’t help them get an AFC licence. They will have to play outside (Mizoram),” said I-League CEO  .
  
  The best and closest option for Aizawl FC is to opt for the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium in Guwahati. The stadium is home to NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League and has been approved to host the Fifa U-17 World Cup later this year. Understood to be the best in the region, the stadium has also hosted international football matches in the past, including home matches of Kolkata giants Mohun Bagan in the AFC Cup this season.
  
  Should Aizawl FC be forced to play away in continental competitions, they will not be the first to be denied the chance to play in front of their home fans. In 2008, Dempo Sports Club played the all-important AFC Cup semifinal against Lebanon’s Safa FC at the Gachibowli Stadium in Hyderabad after the state government failed to complete refurbishment work at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on time.
  
  Churchill Brothers have also played their AFC Cup matches away at the Balewadi sports complex in Pune.
