AHMEDABAD: The city reports six deaths per week on the road. Victims vary from senior citizens crossing a road to youths high on liquor behind wheels. Out of over 3,000 road accidents reported with EMRI 108 ambulances, majority take place in the city periphery on roads such as SG Road and SP Ring Road. Why do these accidents take place, and how to reduce fatalities?

 A report by  , titled ‘Ahmedabad and   Road Accident Study’ analyzes 211 accidents that took place between February 2004 and February 2015 on the 31-km stretch of SG Road, 27 km of SP Ring Road, 13.5 km of NH8 and 27 km of state highways passing near or through Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar.
 
 The study is part of a national scientific database called “Road Accident Sampling System – India” (RASSI). It is submitted to the state transport commissioner by the agency. According to the research, cars and two-wheelers posed highest risk of accidents among road users. Both segments were found involved in 56% (28% each) of total road accidents. Moreover, two-wheelers were most affected – having been involved in 53% of fatal accidents and 47% of serious accidents. The study mentions that only 22% of the total road accidents get reported to police. Moreover, out of 211 accidents, 34% were serious accidents, 8% fatal and 48% minor. In 8% cases, there were no injuries whereas in 2% cases there is unknown outcome. 
 
  The most common cause for accidents was found to be collision between vehicles going in the same direction and collision with turning or crossing vehicles, each contributing to 22% of the crashes. 
 
  Speeding is a major factor. ‘Crash risk increases as speed increases, especially when we lose control at high speeds – as it is difficult to regain control; at road junctions – as the reaction time is very limited; while overtaking - as road users underestimate the speed and overestimate the distance of an approaching or oncoming vehicle,’ mentions the study.
 
 The study stresses on flawless intersection design. According to researchers, crossroads with a history of crashes should be studied for traffic flow problems. Issues such as signals, signage, turning lanes, signboards etc, should be addressed. The signals and signage must be visible and explanatory. 
 
 A senior traffic branch official said that they regularly conduct meetings with the civic authorities and other concerned agencies to address issues related to infrastructure. “The traffic park for children is an attempt to boost awareness,” said an official.
 
