NEW DELHI: In a brutal attack that again highlights how unsafe Delhi is for women, one or more unknown assailants hit a journalist with a heavy stone while she was taking a walk in a park near her house in Ashok Vihar, northwest Delhi, on Wednesday evening, leaving her in a critical state with severe head injuries.

 Doctors said the victim,  , 45, has suffered a three-inch long fracture on the skull which has injured her brain and some nerves. By Thursday evening, she was said to be stable but in critical care. There was apparently no witness to the attack. Police said details of the attack are unclear as Kalra is yet unfit to give a statement. A heavy, bloodstained stone found near the site was probably used in the assault, they said. According to the cops, there are multiple lines of probe. Around 50 suspects from the area have been cross-examined till now.
 
 The attack came to fore when a person taking a stroll in the park called the cops after spotting Kalra lying in a pool of blood on the walking track.
 
 Police took Kalra to a nearby private hospital, from where she was referred to Fortis hospital in  . She underwent a critical surgery at night.
 
 Dr  , additional director and head of neurosurgery department at Fortis hospital, said Kalra was now stable. “She is cur rently under observation in ICU. We are confident of complete recovery,“ he said.
 
 Doctors said Kalra suffered deep injury in the head due to which part of her skull had fractured and there was blood clot inside. Dr Sachdeva and his team operated on her around 11pm, within four hours of the incident, to remove the clot and repair the part of the skull that was fractured. “There is some injury to the eyes but her vision is intact,“ the doctor said.
 
 Kalra's sister Prachi said that around 6.15pm she had recieved a call from the hospital informing about the incident. Locals told her that Kalra was semi-conscious when they found her at the tracks and could mention B-41 as her address before passing out.
 
 “She was bleeding profusely and was lying face-up on the track murmuring something. I had seen her earlier in the park and recognised her to be from the neighbourhood, but could not recall her address.She murmured something about taking her home, informing the police,“ said Sanjay, one of the first persons to find Kalra after the attack. Sanjay alerted roadside ven dors and evening walkers, who went looking for her family.
 
 Kalra's sister said some of the youths did come looking for her but mistook another house in B-block for theirs. Later they had informed the cop. “The cops have been very supportive and helped us to transport her from one hospital to another. Since there were no ambulances available, cops used gypsies which they had modified to transport her,“ said Prachi.
 
 Eyewitnesses said the spot where Aparna was found was hardly 50 metres away from the exit gate towards a busy road. But the spot is rather dark as it's under the shade of a tree. The park usually remains empty at the time when she was attacked.
 
 “We are hopeful that police will be able to crack the case. We are providing them all possible support,“ said H C Bhatia, Kalra's relative.
 
