Trichy: G Hariprasad had come within a hair’s breadth of losing his life recently. As he took a turn on his two-wheeler at the Anna statue   he collided head-on with another motorcycle coming from the opposite direction. It was by sheer luck that Hariprasad escaped with minor injuries. 

 The Anna statue roundabout has turned into a death trap for commuters. The four-road junction neither has traffic signals nor police to regulate traffic during peak hours, resulting in haphazard movement of vehicles.
 
 “Due to the absence of any regulation mechanism, often vehicles from Mela Chinthamani and Chatram bus stand wrongly enter NSB road resulting in accidents,” said Hariprasad. 
 
 S Rajendran, another commuter, said that vehicles, especially buses from other parts of the district like Lalgudi, Samayapuram, Musiri and Thuraiyur enter the city through the roundabout. Vehicles from Perambalur and Ariyalur district too take the route to reach Chatram bus stand. “A peculiar four-road junction, it serves as a gateway for vehicles from Chennai towards Coimbatore enroute Karur Bypass,” he said.
 
 Urging for statue to be relocated, a regular commuter from Thiruvanaikaval P Vishwanath said that vehicles meeting at the junction couldn’t see those coming from the opposite direction. The highway department should make alternative arrangements to ease traffic at the junction, he said.
 
 “The situation at the Anna statue roundabout is no different from that at the MGR statue roundabout in the city. The junction was sufficient for the traffic a couple of decades ago, but traffic now has increased manifold resulting in congestion,” said member of Road Safety Council M Sekaran.
 
 “There were discussion to narrow down the roundabout to create adequate space for vehicles to move. However, the plan was dropped as it would have paved way for more accidents. An elevated corridor seem to be the only option as the area is one of the prime locations in the city,” he said.
 
 A senior official from the state highways department said that an “elevated corridor for a length of 5.4 km from Cauvery Bridge to Trichy railway junction is in the pipeline.” The project, when implemented, would ease traffic at the Anna statue roundabout as vehicles from Srirangam and northern districts can directly reach railway junction without touching Chatram bus stand or Anna statue roundabout, he said.
 
 
