COIMBATORE: Much to the delight of industrialists in the Pollachi-belt, goods train services were relaunched on the   route on Wednesday. 

 The services had been suspended for the past nine years as the route was closed for broad guage conversion work. After nine years lull, the first goods train, carrying 3,714 tonnes of maize to a private company in   from Kapurtala in Punjab, chugged along the route on Wednesday morning.
 
 "The train, with two locomotives and 42 compartments, arrived at   on Tuesday around 9.50pm but could not proceed further as it was an electric locomotive. On Wednesday morning, we got a diesel locomotive from Erode station and the train reached Pollachi at 10.45am," said a Salem division spokesperson.
 
 Special care was taken to ensure the smooth arrival of the train, which had to cross five level crossings between Podanur and Pollachi. "Usually, these level crossings are unmanned. But on Wednesday, they were manned as it was the first run of a goods train on the route after the guage conversion work," the spokesperson said.
 
 The resumption of goods train services on the route is expected to bring a lot of cheer to the fodder, coir and food grain producers, exporters and processing units in the area. Pollachi already has a full-fledged goods shed equipped with a freight operations information system enabled goods booking facility, waiting and rest rooms for traders, among others.
 
 "The successful run of the goods train through the newly-opened broad guage track is encouraging and the zonal railways department may allow more goods trains to pass through the route," said the spokesperson. "But goods trains specific to this route, which will benefit the industrialists in Pollachi and Coimbatore, have to be introduced by the railway board," he noted.
 
 The chairman of Coir Board, C P Radhakrishnan, said they were looking for better train timings between Coimbatore and Pollachi. "We want more convenient timings for passenger trains. The railway board is mulling the option of combining goods and passenger trains, so goods trains to and from Coimbatore will be introduced in due time. We badly need a goods train to Kochi so that containers don't have to go by road, which is expensive because of the toll," said Radhakrishnan. He said he would take up his demands with the railway minister, Suresh Prabhu, next week.
 
