NAGPUR: Dr   and Research Centre (Trust) observed the 72nd death anniversary of Dr   at the hospital at Garoba Maidan on Friday. Kaushalyadevi Jakhotiya donated a water cooler to the hospital on the occasion and was felicitated by the trust officials.

 Chairman of the health committee and ward member Manoj Chaple, trust’s president Balbirsingh Renu, vice-presidents Mohan Agrawal and Subhash Gotmare, secretary Purushotam Ghatole and hospital’s medical superintendent Ravi Bhelonde were present on the occasion.
 
 “Dalvi loved children and it was his affection that lead to the establishment of this hospital. He used to commute to the clinic where he worked on a bicycle every day till the day he died,” said Chaple.
 
 “People like to work but not many opt for the health care sector. Some people give donations to such institutions with a view to promote the sector and bring the public’s focus towards it. I am grateful to Jakhotiya for her generosity,” he added.
 
 Renu said, “Dalvi believed in serving people and never expected that a hospital should be established upon his death. Every person gets a chance to work and if that person can take proper advantage of the work he does, he will surely progress.”
 
 Dalvi was born in 1897 in Nagpur and completed his studies in paediatrics from Vienna, Austria. According to Ghatole, while growing up Dalvi witnessed an increasing number of child deaths during an epidemic at the time. After returning from Vienna, Dalvi practised in the city till his death on May 19, 1945. He was on his way to the clinic on his bicycle when a bus hit Dalvi killing him on the spot, said Ghatole.
 
 On Dalvi’s first death anniversary in 1946, a group of social workers decided to establish Dalvi Memorial Hospital and by 1953 a cottage hospital was built. On August 1, 2006, a nursing training school was opened on the current premises which was inaugurated by   minister Nitin Gadkari.
 
 The hospital building was inaugurated on November 21, 2006, by   who the chief minister of Gujarat at the time.
 
