NAGPUR: The Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) conducted maths exam for students of Class X on Monday, which evoked mixed response from the students. Some students felt it was easy and doable the others thought it was difficult.

 Most of the students had a common grievance: one question asked from the   of Class XI.
 
 “It was a lengthy and difficult exam. I did not expect it to be like that. As compared to our summative assessments, tests and prelims, the difficulty level was quite high. However, I managed to solve it and that too just in the nick of time. I think I should get good marks,” said student Abhimanyu Bhannot.
 
 Shrinivas Trivedi said, “Average would be the best word to describe today’s paper; be it length wise or difficulty-level wise. There was one question from my set which was unexpectedly difficult. I am not really satisfied with how the exam went. I could have done better.”
 
 “The paper was really good. However, there was one question which none of us expected. As far as I know, it was from the syllabus of Class XI, so that was really testing. One more thing that didn’t sit well with me was how identical the question paper was to our NCERT textbook. Students who had memorised the textbook or rote learned it were able to solve it very easily. Maths isn’t a theoretical exam; it tests your skills and logical perception. So, questions should be asked accordingly,” said Nafisa Balapurwala.
 
 Maths teacher Sabu George said, “The paper was a bit lengthy. However, it was set according to CBSE standards. It shouldn’t be too tough and it shouldn’t be too easy either. I feel that average students must have found it slightly difficult whereas the bright students could solve it easily. There were a few questions which frustrated the students; but then that is maths for you.”
 
 “There was one unexpected question from the syllabus of Class XI, which most of us, including myself, were unable to solve. That was quite unfair on the part of CBSE and it shouldn’t have asked such a question. But apart from that, it was an easy exam and I could finish it well within the allotted time. It just proves that practice is all you need to solve maths paper,” said student Jeeya Agrawal.
 
 “It was a well-balanced paper; one that I could finish on time. There was one question which didn’t belong to our syllabus, so I am a little worried about that as I couldn’t solve it,” said Devyani Chopde.
 
 Analysis
 
 Paper toughness: Easy 
 
 Questions Relevance: Straight forward
 
 Paper Length: Lengthy
 
