LUDHIANA: Top leaders of all parties in Punjab must have thought of taking a break after the long and testing campaign for the assembly election finally ended with votes being cast on Saturday. But it seems that a fresh test is already awaiting many of them.

 The investigation wing of   department has issued summons to nearly 300 candidates who contested the election. They have been asked to prove the veracity of financial information in the affidavits filed along with their nomination papers.
 
 The department has also issued show-cause notices to the candidates, particularly those whose assets either swelled over the past five years or mysteriously dipped. They have been told to provide the source of accretion of assets and those of their spouses and dependents as well. Sources said that almost an equal number of candidates from all three leading parties ­ Congress, Akali Dal, BJP and AAP ­ have been issued summons. Even the heavyweights have not been spared.
 
 An AAP candidate said on condition of anonymity, “I was shocked to receive the summons even before polling day. I have been asked to furnish income tax returns of both my wife and me, details of value of my assets and documentary evidence of ownership of properties.“
 
 Sources in the department said although it was routine for them to verify affidavits, this was the first time that the department had served summons immediately after candidates filed nominations. Some of them received the summons even before polling day . To make sure no candidate ducks the summons, the department has served these through returning officers (RO) and asked the candidates to give all details by February 25, failing which the candidate will be declared as exparte. The department intends to complete the verification of affidavits of all those who have been summoned by end of March.
 
 In case officials are not satisfied with the replies or the information in the affidavits is false, then the election commis sion will be informed besides taking other actions.
 
 While the department is tight-lipped about the issue, chief election officer of   said, “Income Tax department has been instructed to verify the financial details furnished by candidates in case of suspicion. Action will be taken against those candidates who fail to supply the information or whose information in the affidavits is found to be false.“
 
 The tax officials have instructed ROs to get the summons personally received by the candidates.
 
