KOLKATA: More than seven months have passed since 17-year-old Abesh Dasgupta died mysteriously while partying with his friends at an upscale housing complex on July 23, 2016. The nationwide media attention have shifted from the incident but his mother, Rimjhim, has still been awaiting a closure to the case. 

 "I won't ever get Abesh back. I'm only looking for a closure. Thanks to the media attention, a   was formed," she said, recounting how chief minister   assured her of justice. On her visits to Lalbazar, Rimjhim has been told the probe was still on and the   report pending.
 
 "My well-wishers, including Lalita Ray (Sandip Ray's wife), Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Subhen Chatterjee and Debajyoti Mishra, are concerned about the investigation's status. Even they are wondering how long a grieving mother has to wait for justice. I'll approach the judiciary if I'm dissatisfied with the cop's report," she said.
 
 Months before Abesh died, Rimjhim lost her husband, Swagata, on Valentine's Day. Then again on December 19 the same year, Rimjhim's father, Shantanu Pal, died of cerebral stroke. 
 
 The series of emotional onslaught has made her resolve to immerse herself in her interior designing business and resume teaching in school. Rimjhim avoids tears, refusing to conform to stereotypes associated with bereavement, but people spread rumours about how she has moved on in life. "It's easy to spread lies about a young and single woman. I wonder if some are designing this campaign. First, they maligned my son's image. Now, it's me. I'm slightly disillusioned with Kolkata. I am thankful that my 83-year-old mother-in-law is so empathic," Rimjhim said.
 
 Impressed with her will to "fight to live and live to fight", a Bristol-based film studies student, Shreya Sen, will start filming a documentary on her from Wednesday.
 
 But Rimjhim can't bear to see Abesh's belongings. "I can expect time to heal my grief for Swagata and my father. But I can't even touch Abesh's grief," she said.
 
 
