If age is no bar, Sharif Abdul Samad Khan has certainly raised the bar higher. The 41-year-old auto-rickshaw driver from  , one of whose five children is appearing for the ongoing HSC (Class XII) examination, will turn an examinee himself this month.
 
  He has enrolled as an external candidate to take the SSC (Class X) test conducted by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, thus taking up the pen from where he had left it long ago in the turbulent times of 1991-92.
  
  “Padhane ki koi seema nahi hoti (There is no limit if you want to learn),” declares Sharif, his excitement unmistakable, as he prepares for the exam after having filled up form 17 (which allows one to appear for SSC as an outsider without attending regular school) from  .
  
  “I have five children — four daughters who study in Hindi-medium schools and a son, who is in standard II in an English-medium school. One of my daughters, Rukhsar, is appearing for her Class XII boards and she, along with the rest, encouraged me to complete my education,” added the auto-rickshaw driver, who drives for 8-9 hours every day.
  
  Sharif’s is a typical story of a hard-working youth in Mumbai, who had to crush his study dreams because of pressing family duties. He has six siblings and had to start earning early to help his father, who used to sell pav.
  
  “Sometime in 1991-92, I dropped out from a BMC-run school in Mulund. The situation was not good for us in the city, as we all know. Riots have not directly affected us with violence, but our family income had dropped down sharply. I had to help my father financially. After that I never thought that I will again get to touch textbooks. Earning money and managing family was my task,” Sharif, whose family is from Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh,said.
  
  Not that he doesn’t have family commitments and financial pressure hanging heavily on him now. In fact, more so.
  
  The family stays in an 8 X 12 ft room at a chawl in Babu Jagjeevan Ram Nagar in Mulund (West). There is no television, or AC or any other modern day gadget in the house. Sharif has to go out in the heat and dust every day to earn money. As he puts it, it is not easy to go back home and concentrate on studies, but his daughters act as the motivational force for him, willing him to carry on despite all hardships.
  
  “All of them are bright and do their studies regularly, so when I get really hard-pressed with everything, they tell me to focus. Fifteen years ago, English language was not in demand like these days, otherwise, I would have enrolled my daughters in English-medium schools as well,” he said.
  
  The auto driver started realising the importance of education even more after becoming attached to the Mumbai Auto-Rickshaw Taxi Men’s Union.
  
  “We do a lot of social works and I realised that if you want to connect with more people, your education does matter. Because understanding of issues and skills to handle the situation improves with good education. I discussed this with my family and we decided to fill the exam form. I want to tell my community that with education we can change our future,” he said.
  
  While Anil Classes in Mulund has offered help to him, Vikhroli Rajpal Vidyalaya also has special coaching for students as Sharif. Rukhsar, who is appearing for HSC from  , is keen to provide support too. Her exam will end on March 27, while her father’s will start from March 7. “We have our hopes high for him. I will focus on Abba’s examination once I am done with mine,” she told Mumbai Mirror.
  
  Deepak Sonavane, a friend of Sharif, said that the 41-year-old was an example for many, who want to pursue education but get pulled back by various factors like age, poverty and infirmities. “We should all learn from him how to never give up,” he summed up. 
