Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Haryana government asking why a new committee was not constituted to reconsider the objections regarding the draft notification for delimitation of wards of the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG).

 A division bench comprising Justice Surya Kant and Justice Sudhir Mittal issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by Bhoop Singh and other residents of Gurugram.
 
 “Let notice of motion be issued to show cause as to why the state government be not directed to constitute a new committee headed by an officer in the rank of secretary to the state government, to reconsider the objections filed by the petitioners or other residents against the draft notification for delimitation of wards,” observed the bench while seeking state’s response by August 1.
 
 Petitioners in the case have sought directions to set aside the draft final notification by which the authorities had re-fixed the number of seats/wards and demarcated boundaries of wards, respectively, for the elections to be conducted for the MCG.
 
 Those who have been asked to file a reply on the issue included the principal secretary, Haryana department of local bodies, state election commission and MCG.
 
 Petitioners argued that final draft notification did not address any of the grievances raised by them and the state authorities were adamant to force the delimitation through. “The motivation to favour the ruling party is writ large, and needless to say this is arbitrary, discriminatory and against the settled principles and rules governing demarcation and delimitation and amounts to an attempt to steal an election,” alleged the petitioners.
 
 It was further alleged that the authorities are choosing to remap the wards in their totality, and in the process, they are arbitrarily adding certain areas into different wards, while removing some to aid the current political dispensation. When the petitioners object, they simply state that if they do not do so, then the required population for constituting a ward would not be met, contended the petitioners.
 
 According to the petitioners, they had filed detailed objections on May 30 to the final draft notification, but the state authorities did not provide any opportunity of hearing to them.
 
 
