GURDASPUR: Ahead of  , businessmen and industrialists of the constituency are approaching candidates of all the three major political parties demanding help in revival of textile industry and also the   (SDTDB). The board, they believe, would attract tourists from across India and give much needed boost to the local industry.

 "We gave a representation to   and informed him about the losses incurred to the businessmen who had begun their projects in the sub-mountainous regions along Shivalik hills in Punjab after dissolving of SDTDB,"   told TOI on Monday. Maini was in the process of developing 2.5-acre "Mango Island" in Ranjit Sagar Lake before SDTDB was dissolved.
 
 In July, the newly-elected Congress government had dissolved SDTDB, constituted during SAD-BJP regime and headed by then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, stating that SDTDB was a white elephant. The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) was fully capable of ensuring development of area, the government had said.
 "SDTDB had the focused approach as it was exclusively meant to develop this region but PIDB had several other projects in its hand and wouldn't be able to give priority to development of this region," said another industrialist N K Reddy. After formation of SDTDB, there was a boom in the real estate market as it had started developing around 300 acres of land in Kulara and Musharba, he said, adding, "Now we will be giving representation to both AAP's Maj Gen Suresh Khajuria (retd) and BJP's Swaran Salaria."
 Revival of industry is already on the promise list of all the three candidates. Not only Jakhar and Khajuria had talked about the revival of sick industrial units but Salaria, an 
 industrialist himself, has also assured to bring new industry in Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency.
 
 Another   said that there was huge scope of cash rich sericulture. He said that there were nearly 650 sericulture units in Dhar Block. "We need government to arrange marketing of the produce, once it is done, thousands of more units will come up on lower hills," he said.
 
