CHENNAI: Besides fighting against each other under new party names and new symbols,   of   and E Madhusudhanan of AIADMK-Puratchi Thalaivi Amma will have to take on their namesakes for the April 12 R K Nagar byelection.  ,   and K Dinakaran will compete with the rival AIADMK factions and may cause a dent in their vote share. 

 S Madhusudanan, an advocate practising in the Madras high court, is not hesitant in admitting that he is a DMK sympathizer. He is quite happy with his 'peas' symbol. So, was his agenda to split votes? 
 
 "We need a change. My objective is to register my protest against the ruling AIADMK as there is a shroud of secrecy over the death of the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. If my votes split the fortunes of AIADMK and benefits DMK, I will be more than happy," the resident of Triplicane said. Madhusudanan said he will campaign with the help of his friends to get to know the pulse of electorate.
 
 G Thinakaran of Vykkadu in Manali exudes confidence. The 56-year-old is in the scrap business and he wants to be in the ballot list along with TT V Dhinakaran.
 
  "If he can come from nowhere, why not me from the neighbouring Tiruvottiyur constituency? I am sure I will get 15,000 votes," he said. Does he know the constituency profile and its issues? "Just two days of tour will help me identify issues. I know they need a flyover at Korukkupet, and there are water problems. I am confident of winning people's trust," said Thinakaran, who has friends in all parties, including AIADMK and DMK.
 
 K Dinakaran of Vysarpadi is another contestant who may prove an irritant to the Sasikala camp. The businessman, a class ten dropout, remains unreachable. But leaders of both camps do not see the namesakes a threat. Says Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan of the OPS faction, "When we are talking about one lakh victory margin, this diversion, if at all, of 500 or 1000 votes by the namesakes, will hardly matter. The year 2017 is not 1990s. People are clear and well aware of their candidates." DMK's Maruthu Ganesh has been spared. 
 
 After strong objections from AIADMK-Amma representatives, the nomination of M Dhinakaran was rejected, as one of the ten proposers wrongly mentioned the serial number against her name in the electoral roll. 
 
