TIRUVANNAMALAI: A driver and conductor attached to the Chengam depot of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Tiruvannamalai (TNSTC) have been arrested for transporting meat of deer. The forest department officials have also confiscated a government bus attached to the Chengam depot of the (TNSTC), Tiruvannamalai, as the vehicle has been used to transport meat of the wild animal.

 Acting on a tip-off, Forest Ranger of Chengam P V Anbu and his subordinates intercepted the government bus (registration no TN 23 M 1951) plying between Chengam and Illankunni village at Illankunni at about 6 pm on Friday and flushed out the bus. The officials found 15 kg of meat of deer behind the driver seat. "We found 15 bags of meat, each one kg, at back of the driver seat," said the Forest Ranger. 
 
 Following the seizure of the meat of deer, which falls under Schedule III of Protected Animal under Wildlife Protection Act, the forest officials confiscated the bus and took driver M Kannan, 42, a native of Illankunni, and conductor Ethiraj , 46, a native Andiyapalam near Tiruvannamalai, for an inquiry.
 
 The driver reportedly told the forest officials that one of the drivers Gopi (alias) Gopinathan of Chengam depot has asked him to collect the parcel (meat) from a person in Illankunni village. He has nothing to do with the meat. "We went in search of Gopi, but he is absconding. We will get a warrant against him and will soon arrest him," said the ranger.
 
 The forest department officials have invoked sections 9 (prohibition of hunting - no person shall hunt any wild animals specified in schedules in the act), 39 (b) [meat derived from any wild animals referred to in clause (a) in the act] and (d) [vehicle that has been used for committing an offence] of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.
 
 "We have produced the vehicle before the Judicial Magistrate Court in Chengam and also handed over the meat as material evidence before the court. After obtaining permission from the court, the sample of the meat would be sent to the forensic lab to determine from which animal, the meat was derived," added the official.
 
 Fine would be slapped to the tune of Rs 25,000 or imprisonment for a maximum of six months, he further said. 
 
