In the latest episode of Yeh Rishta Ka, Aryan is seen talking to a person at the Goenka mansion. Then he is informed about Manish and everyone. He inquires about everyone. 

 In the morning, Luv and Kush wonder why is everyone running around in their home. Naira asks them to hurry up and get ready. 
 
 Suhasini asks Naira if she has cooked kadoo ka halwa but Naira says she was never told to make anything. The maid then informs that they do not have ingredients. Naira says she will arrange for something. 
 
 At Singhania house, everyone is worried about Naira not having reached home. Naitik is worried thinking that he cannot be a part of Naksh's haldi and is waiting for Naira eagerly. 
 
 Naksh gets emotional seeing his mother's picture and tells him that this time both his parents are part of his celebration. 
 
 Kartik asks Naira to hurry up says they have to leave for the ceremony. Just then Aryan enters with kadoo (pumpkin) in his hand and tells them he thought of helping them. 
 
 Aryan leaves and Naira thanks him for getting pumpkin. 
 
 Aryan thinks of a way of staying back in Goenka house and as soon as he spots Manish he runs away. Aryan asks for a job opportunity and the staff person okays it. 
 
 Naira has finally prepared kadoo ka halwa, she leaves it on table thinking will pack it later. But then Luv and Kush eat that halwa. Dadi asks her to make halwa here in Goenka mansion. 
 
 Naira has tears in her eyes and Kartik watches her from far. He wonders what could be the reason. 
 
 At Singhania mansion, they are surprised to find Kartik preparing haldi for the ceremony. He tells them since Naira was busy so he thought of coming over. 
 
 Kartik notices that Naitik is worried.
 
 Dadi thanks Naira for staying over and cooking halwa again. Naira tells her that Kartik has gone to help for haldi ceremony to her house. 
 
 Dadi gets angry but Naira says that there is no harm if Kartik takes her responsbilities. 
 
 Kartik and Naitik are seen discussing about some urgency and that he has to leave. 
 
 Naira calls Naksh that she will be coming for haldi but their father wont be able to attend it. Naksh gets angry and threatens that he won’t go either. Naksh doesn't let him go he is not ready to listen. Kartik and Naira try to make him underastand. He lets him go but asks him to return on time for the wedding. 
 
