BS Yeddyurappa, the man tasked by BJP to wrest   from the Congress, says there is no need for communal polarisation as anti-incumbency against the   government will give his party the edge. Who is  ? Is he even a leader? he asks. He tells ET that BJP’s Uttar Pradesh campaign model, with the additional element of himself as the official chief ministerial candidate, will be applied in the 2018 Karnataka assembly elections. Excerpts.
 
  
 
  I have travelled 10,500 kilometres and visited 27 (of 30) districts, held 27 Dalit Samaveshas as part of my Jana Samparka Abhiyana. I have never seen such a response in all the 40 years of my political career. It is much better than the atmosphere in 2008 (when the BJP came to power for the first time in Karnataka).
  
  
 
  I am not denying that the Congress has a base among them. We are doing all that is necessary to cover these segments of society and win them over. All through my tour I visited a Dalit’s house every day and ate with them. It gives them confidence. We discussed how Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Dr Jagjivanram were cheated by them (Congress). How they defeated them, when they stood for elections, how Dr Ambedkar’s death rites were not allowed at Rajghat but only at Dadar, how Atal Behari Vajpayee wanted to make Jagjivanram the PM and they stopped that. What moral right does Congress have to talk about Dalits?
  
  
 
  I have been doing it for a long time. I accept that Rahul Gandhi did it but I was not thinking about that. I have designed my own programme.
  
  
 
  There is no need at all for communal polarisation. The   will give its suggestions and support us, but our party will take decisions on everything, including candidates. We will indeed replicate Amit Shah’s UP model and replicate the results also, by choosing winning candidates selected through surveys. Unlike the UP model, the party has trusted me and announced me as the CM candidate. The responsibility is huge, but I have no fear of failing. The people have decided that they don’t want Siddaramaiah’s government. They want a change and will vote 100% for the BJP. We will win 150 seats and form government in the name of PM Narendra Modi’s programmes and the ones that we gave in our stint from 2008-2013.
  
  
 
  He is a popular person and he has been working for public good. Nobody is above law. But he is honest to the core and unnecessarily he is being targeted just because he is pro-Hindu and cases are being foisted on him.
  
  
 
  Who is Rahul Gandhi? Talk to 10 people on the road. Does even one of them speak of Rahul Gandhi with respect? That man, during the President's election time left to go see his grandmother abroad. He just makes random statements. Childish behaviour. Who are you comparing him to? Can you compare him to the PM ? If Rahul Gandhi becomes their party president, he won't just be a minus for them. Wait and see what happens to their party. Even their allies are not willing to accept him as a leader. The Congress policies also…. they spoke of Garibi Hatao, did it happen? In just three years, look at Modi’s achievements. When Deve Gowda was PM (1996), the income of the central government was Rs 9,000 crore. Today it is Rs 15,000 crore! With the  , this will increase by another Rs 2-3,000 crore. Is it a small achievement?
  
  
 
  Seventy percent of Siddaramaiah’s ministers are not cooperating with him. The law and order in the state is the worst in the country. Surveys call us the most corrupt state. He has no control on the police or his officers. He does not trust anyone. Hundreds of officers have been transferred in (communally sensitive) Mangaluru, still the situation is not under control. When the church attacks happened during my tenure, done deliberately to harm my image, I visited the sites myself and brought the situation under control within four days. Did any murders happen during my tenure like what is going on now? This gentleman (Siddaramaiah) can only administer tongue-lashings. There is a severe drought in the state, hardly two feet of water in the Anjanapura dam in my own constituency, yet do you see ministers acting to solve the people’s problems? There is no developmental agenda, they have not even fulfilled their own promise of money allocation for irrigation.
  
  
 
  It is Siddaramaiah who is making things personal. If I visit a Dalit’s house and eat, he says I should bring their daughters and get them married to my sons and grandsons. Is this the kind of talk a CM does? They point to what Yeddyurappa or (MP) Shobha Karandlaje says, but who started all this personal talk? We only want to criticise his government’s policies as an opposition party. We don’t want to touch him at all.
  
