ROHTAK: As   was ripping apart the English batting line-up on Wednesday in the third and final  , one man was glued watching him on TV in the city of Jind. The man was none other than his father — advocate K K Chahal. As Yuzvendra went on a wicket-taking spree (the leg-spinner ended with a record haul of six wickets), Chahal Sr’s emotions knew no bounds.

 There were tears of joy as he knew that Yuzvendra had won the match for his country. A university-level cricketer himself, K K Chahal related the story behind how Yuzvendra got his name. “I was a fan of former Indian Test player Yajurvindra Singh, who played during the 70s and hailed from Gujarat. He was a medium-pace bowling allrounder, but it was his fielding that stood out when he played for India.
 
 “I watched a Test match in 1977 and Yajurvindra plucked seven catches in that match, which was incidentally against England. He made an entry into the record books for holding onto the most number of catches, while fielding. Yajurvindra Singh’s name kept coming to my mind when the naming ceremony of my son was going on,” Chahal Sr recollected.
 
 Yuzvendra honed his cricketing skills at Jind’s Nehru Stadium — located a short distance away from Chahals’ house, which is near the Jind railway station.
 
 Interestingly, Chahal Sr and his wife Sunita wanted Yuzvendra to pick up an indoor game instead of cricket when he was young.
 
 “We didn’t want any bad company for him (Yuzvendra) and so we put him in chess. Within some years, he won the national junior title and also went onto represent India at the World Junior Chess Championship in Greece in 2002,” Chahal Sr, who also owns two acres of agricultural land on the outskirts of Jind city, reflected.
 
 Yuzvendra’s name is still listed in FIDE’s (the international governing body for chess) official website.
 
 Due to lack of sponsorship, Yuzvendra’s chess career was nipped in the bud. However, the young lad then started devoting more time for cricket.
 
 “There were no good cricketing facility in Jind. My husband created a cricket playground for Yuzi (Yuzvendra’s nickname) at our two-acre agricultural land. He used to daily play there for hours, without any interference. He used to invite his friends and improved his skills bit by bit. Local cricket coaches like Vinod Mata and others helped him immensely,” reminisced Yuzvendra’s mother, Sunita Chahal.
 
 Later, Yuzvendra got admission to DAV College, Chandigarh, where his game flourished under better coaches. Yuzvendra has two sisters, who are settled in Australia; and according to his mother, he is a simple boy who likes home-cooked Haryanvi food.
 
 “In his spare time, Yuzvendra watches cricket on TV with his favourite delicacies on the table. Former Australian leg-spinner Shane Warne is his idol, while he appreciates MS Dhoni a lot,” added Sunita Chahal.
 
 At present, both parents are elated over their son’s brilliant show; but they now hope Yuzvendra would deliver such performances with regularity and make the country proud.
 
 
