BEIJING: Getting the   ( ) show on course here on Sunday, Chinese President   praised the 
  ( ) — which India has said violates it sovereignty — as its “flagship” project, while promising to respect the territorial integrity of different countries.

 “All countries should respect each other’s 
  ... and each other’s core interests and major concerns,” Xi said at the inauguration of the OBOR initiative.
 
 India is the only major country to refuse participation in the event, suggesting that the massive project is little more than a colonial enterprise, which would leave debt-ridden, broken communities in its wake. 
 
 China has said it would continue to 
  to join the programme to build the connectivity infrastructure.
 
 Pakistan PM  , a speaker at the forum, took a dig at India without naming it. “Let me make it clear that CPEC is an economic undertaking open to all countries in the region. It has no geographical boundaries. It must not be politicised,” Sharif said.
 
 Xi pledged $124 billion in financial assistance, double of what the World Bank lent in 2016, for OBOR. The plan involves building six economic corridors including CPEC criss-crossing different parts of Asia and Europe.
 
 “China needs India’s participation more than it needs the United States,” David Kelly, director of geopolitics at Beijing-based consulting firm, China Policy, told news agencies.
 
 “It does not serve China’s image and strategic interests to establish linkages in distant places while being unable to mend fences in its neighbourhood,” Kelly said, adding that India would not lose much by skipping the event. 
 
 “India’s development pattern follows a different rhythm compared to China. India will continue to grow at its own pace regardless of whether it joins or not,” he said.
 
 India-China ties have been strained over Beijing repeatedly blocking New Delhi’s bid for the  , and Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh, a region claimed by China.
 
 Representatives of the United States and Germany did some plain speaking, reminding China of the need for maintaining transparency in project planning and 
  in the allocation of finance and purchase of machinery.
 
 China has been blamed for supporting projects that provide business to Chinese companies and banks while side-lining other competitors. 
 
 Sunday’s event showed China’s eagerness to expand OBOR into a major trade and development initiative instead of restricting it to infrastructure construction. Xi offered funds for poverty eradication and health centres in developing countries besides allocating money for infrastructure construction.
 
 Analysts said a major part of assistance would go to projects that provide construction and machinery supply opportunities to Chinese companies. OBOR, they said, is an economic stimulus for China’s domestic economy as much as a quest for raising its international standing.
 
 “We should jointly create an environment that will facilitate opening up and development, establish a fair, equitable and transparent system of international trade and investment rules,” Xi said. 
 
 China will sign trade agreements with 30 countries during the two-day forum, and gradually expand it to cover 60 countries who are connected to the plan, Xi added.
 
