KOLKATA: All under 12, but these kids can give the bravest of men a run for their money. Fifty-odd children — either battling various life-threatening blood diseases or having beaten them — took centre stage at a programme organized by Kolkata Haematology Education and Research Initiative (Kheri) on Saturday to usher in  .

 As part of an event titled “Bengali Barshabaran: Swagato 1424”, they wore costumes symbolizing what they wish to be once they beat the disease. Never mind that some, like Abhijit Haldar (5), admitted in the paediatric ward of NRS Medical College and Hospital, had to don anti-infection masks along with their costumes. Diagnosed with T-Cell leukemia (a rare   with a rather bleak outlook), Haldar wants to be Chhota Bheem when he grows up. 
 
 Suprabhat Sahis (5), of Halunkhandi village in Bankura, walked the ramp as “Munnabhai, MMBS”. He has been battling lymphoblastic leukemia since June 24, 2015, and has regular chemotherapy sessions. “His treatments expose him to a lot of medical situations. So he’s always wanting to play doctor. I hope he can be healthy enough to live his dream,” said his mother.
 
 The audience at Rabindra Sadan was excited as the children ushered in the Bengali  , a week in advance, with their near-professional performance of mime-act, plays and recitals. Their audience included economist Sugato Marjit, danseuse Alokananda Roy, footballer Sukumar Samajpati, Tollywood celebs, and doctors.
 
  “I’m so happy for them and I think this is such a good way for the kids to show their strength in other ways,” said Prantar Chakraborty, head of haematology department, NRS Hospital, told TOI.
 
 “When they’re diagnosed with cancer, these kids think their life is over. It takes a while for them to get out of that funk. They are thrilled to have a future. For them to go on stage, perform, gives them courage to reach for anything,” said Chakraborty, who’s also the Kheri secretary. 
 
 Kheri collaborates with government hospitals to help kids with blood disorders get medical help. “Childhood cancer is a horrifying experience. Each year, Kheri tries to take stress away by organizing these events,” said Anamika Chowdhury of Kheri. 
 
 “We don’t just tell these kids who are battling life-threatening diseases that they can do anything they want. We actually let them do it, in front of a crowd cheering them on,” Chakraborty added.
 
 
