ROPAR: A   carried out by the tehsildar of   revealed on Saturday that   had been set up in separate parts of Rupnagar to allegedly collect money from   sand and   mined illegally. 

 Tehsildar Manbir Singh Dhillon raided the collection points — one on the Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar Road and another on the road connecting Khuhi and Khera villages of the district — on directions by Punjab joint chief electoral officer Hargunjit Kaur. Kaur had ordered the raid after Rupnagar-based lawyer and   activist Dinesh Chadha had complained about the “illegal tax centres” that had been set up for collecting money from trucks transporting the sand.
 
 The collection points fall in Anandpur Sahib and Nangal assembly segments. On reaching the first collection point on the Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar road, the team found several documents revealing details of monetary transactions. It called a police team, which confiscated the documents. By the time the team reached the other centre on the Khuhi-Khera village road, only an empty tin shed was found on the road. However, they found some truckers queued up on the spot who had come to hand over their receipts.
 
 Chadha had filed a similar complaint earlier too. However, at that time, local officials reported that no such centres were found in the district.
 
 Unconvinced, Chadha again took up the matter with the joint CEO, who asked officials to take the complainant along during raids. “I got a call from Anandpur Sahib SDM, who later deputed the tehsildar to accompany me. We took a private vehicle so that men at the ‘tax’ centres were not alarmed by the visit. As we reached the first centre, the men, who appeared to be local villagers, stepped back and allowed the tehsildar to look at the documents. When was spoke about calling the police to confiscate the documents, they even left a bike behind, which has been taken into possession by police,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Dhillon said the raid was carried out on directions by the electoral officer. He confirmed that they had seized documents showing monetary transactions from one of the centres, but maintained that it was not possible for him to say that something was wrong at this point of time. “This could be a mechanism to double-check movement of mining trucks in the area. I will prepare a report and send it to senior officials,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 During the 2014 general elections, when the code of conduct was in force, Rupnagar-based lawyer and RTI activist Dinesh Chadha had filed a similar complaint after which these centers had disappeared from the district, only to return after the government was formed. Reportedly, an attempt to murder case was slapped against Chadha after that. However, je along with other lawyers from the district bar association launched an agitation and the charges were dropped. Names of some Akali leaders had cropped up during the agitation, but the matter was swept under the carpet by authorities at that time
 
