LUCKNOW: The persistent traffic woes of Lucknow and the entire state might just be a thing of the past. Road safety and traffic management would also be on par with international standards with the Australian government involved in the project. 

 On a visit to Lucknow to explore the areas of cooperation, Australian high commissioner to India   said the government has tied up for the road safety consultancy program giving expert advise on problems specific to the state. The   project has been undertaken with the help of private players and multi-lateral funding agencies, particularly the  . 
 
 This, however, is not the only area of cooperation between the two countries; agriculture and water management and vocational education and skill-based training being the other two collaborations to be made.
 
 "Australian expert   has looked at the problem areas. He was here to look at traffic and road safety-related issues of both rural and urban settings and met a number of officials from the traffic as well as police department," said Sidhu who is the first woman of Indian origin to be holding the post of the Australian high commissioner to India. 
 
 Even though the consultancy is Australia-based, Sidhu emphasised, the design is specific to particular areas of UP, decoding the kind of roads and highway structures relevant to a particular setup in the state, modes of safety that can be designed, built of highways, flyovers and junctions to be undertaken. 
 
 Apart from traffic, there is a joint research underway at Australia's CSIRO (Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation) and Lucknow-based IITR (Indian Toxicology Research Centre) on improving the quality of moong dal (split green gram), water management, safe water, management of sewage flowing in rivers and other related areas. 
 
 With a base of around 60,000 Indian students in Australia, the country is looking at the option of vocational and skill-based training. "We are working on a program of bringing trainers here for greater reach of skill-based learning and also of taking Indian trainers to Australia, equipping them with skills and sending them back for benefits in the area. 
 
