HYDERABAD: Cricket in the United States is headed in a new direction. On the 173rd anniversary of the first international sporting event - a cricket match between the USA and Canada now known as the   - cricket in the US took a step closer towards the creation of a new federation with the launch of brand   on September 24. 
 
 The first Auty Cup match was played at a ground, which now is the   in Manhattan.   manager   congratulated the US men's team for bringing the Cup to USA for the first time in 26 years. "It wasn't easy but I'm incredibly proud of how they fought and never gave up. Their backs were against the wall several times and they only fought back harder. Congratulations to the entire team," he said.
  
 The brand and the new USA Cricket social media platforms, which were also launched, represent a new chapter for the sport in USA. It is the first step towards getting a new governing body, until which time the sport will continue to be delivered by the ICC Americas USA Project team and the Local Advisory Groups.
 
 The creation of a membership database will facilitate a transparent election process with the focus on creating a federation that can represent and unify the whole cricket community in the USA. A new board is expected to be in place by April 2018.
  
 A collaborative approach to developing the new marks was coordinated by US based creative agency, Adrenalin, which won a competitive pitch process and has shaped the brands of many major league sport franchises and national federations within the USA. The brand represents unity and the platforms will be the place to go for USA Cricket content.
  
 ICC Americas USA Project Manager Eric Parthen said: "It is a very exciting day for cricket in the United States as we celebrate the past and look to the future. It is a fresh start and we are hugely encouraged by what we have been hearing from the cricket community. The conversations and progress we have made are on track to unifying as one body for cricket in the USA.
  
 "The launch of the USA Cricket brand and the social media platforms are the first step in achieving our goal and we have produced an exciting look and feel for the federation."
  
 President of Adrenalin Dan Price said: "The launch of USA Cricket is the first step to introducing the sport of cricket to millions of new fans as well as providing structure and guidance to participants, old and new, across the country. We are thrilled with the new mark and look forward to the impact USA Cricket will have on the sport worldwide."
 
