Panaji:   appear determined to join the Indian Super League (ISL) after missing the bus in 2014.
 The former I-League champions and India’s most successful club in the last four years picked up the invitation to bid (ITB) document on the first day itself making their interest in the franchise-based league evidently clear.
  “We have picked up the document today so the intent is definitely there,” Mandar Tamhane, chief technical officer at the club, told TOI on Friday.
  According to sources, Bengaluru FC will now go through the document and evaluate their options.
  “Bengaluru picked up the document early because they wanted to study everything in detail. If they decide to go ahead and submit the bid, they will need some time to put everything together,” said a source who is closely tracking the development.
  Bengaluru FC had picked up the invitation to bid document prior to the launch of the ISL in 2014 but differences cropped up between the JSW-owned club and the organizers. Bengaluru wanted to be part of the ISL but, according to sources, did not submit the complete bid document.
  Sources said Bengaluru FC will submit their bid document only if they receive assurances from the All India Football Federation ( ) that ISL participation won’t rob them of the chance to play in Asian competitions, particularly the   Champions League play-off and  .
  “For Bengaluru FC to participate, ISL must get recognition from AFC,” said the source.
  Bengaluru FC’s wish may actually come true. The AIFF plans to run both leagues – ISL and I-League – simultaneously from mid-November and have written to the Asian Football Confederation to transfer at least one AFC Cup slot to the ISL. The plan, for now, is to have a Super Cup – replacing the Federation Cup -- between the top four teams in the ISL and I-League with the winner grabbing the AFC Cup slot normally reserved for Cup winners.
  The I-League winners will continue to participate in the AFC Champions League play-off and if they fail to clear the hurdle, the AFC Cup.
  AIFF’s request for an additional AFC Cup slot has been rejected by the governing body for Asian football.
