Jaipur's annual date with vintage beauties the Vintage and Classic Car Rally took place over the week end when as many as 100 cars came together for an exhibition and rally held on two consecutive days. Organised by the Rajputana Automotive Sports Car Club (RASCC), Jaipur, in association with the State Tourism Department, the 19th edition of the rally was flagged off by Rao Rajendra Singh, deputy speaker, Rajasthan Legislative Assembly; Duru Mian, erstwhile nawab of Loharu from Tijara; Pankaj Singh, additional director general of police (crime); hotelier Kesri Singh Mandawa; Dayanidhi Kasliwal, president of RASCC; and Sudhir Kasliwal, vicepresident of RASCC. The exhibition was inaugurated by Diya Kumari, MLA of Sawai Madhopur.
 
 
 
 
 We have often seen   becoming an integral part of Bollywood movies, especially song sequences. One such car displayed at the exhibition was 1938 Dodge Brothers owned by Ghani Autos. The car was seen in the movie 
  and has also been used in upcoming film 
 . Another car Daimler SP250, manufactured in the year 1959 and owned by Avijit Singh, was used in ad shoot featuring Kareena Kapoor Khan.Cadillac 1956 model two-door convertible was seen in the Oscar-winning 
 , and a few other movies. Late Rajmata Gayatri Devi's personal car 56 milkwhite Jaguar-XK now owned by Sudhir Kasliwal too was exhibited. “I think the vintage cars have a certain thing to them which the present cars don't have. I had fun attending the rally,“ said Pattriya Nanakorn, a tourist from Thailand.
 
 
 
 “When we started this rally 19 years ago, there were hardly 10 cars who had participated. Now, there were over 100 vintage and classic cars from across the country. This event is nothing but a trip down memory lane for vintage automobile enthusiasts,“ said Sudhir Kasliwal, who had displayed 10 of his vintage cars in the rally.
 
 
 
 
 Plymouth, a 1956 model owned by Nawaratan Nahata was the talking point at the show because of its 
  We spotted people clicking pictures with the key. It also won the award for the second best restored car at the event. “I think the idea of making a gold key has worked well as many people appreciated it at the rally,“ said Nahata, who participated for the first time in the rally.
 
 
