MUMBAI: Chief minister   and Shiv Sena president   are sailing in the same boat over the outcome of the crucial elections to the BMC. In the event BJP fails to secure a clear majority, Fadnavis will be in trouble though he has declared that the outcome of the polls will not be a referendum on his two-year-old government. Thackeray has made the election a prestige issue as it is for the first time in the recent past that the Shiv Sena has been challenged in the BMC polls. Sena has directly controlled the BMC since 1997.

 Ever since Sena unilaterally terminated the alliance with BJP, Fadnavis embarked on an aggressive campaign against it, saying, it was alone responsible for the corruption and irregularities in BMC. Fadnavis alleged that the Sena was collecting 'haftas' from BMC contractors, and as a result, the quality of work was poor.
 
 He addressed more than 22 election meetings and BJP put up well over 1,000 banners and hoardings across the metropolis, depicting Fadnavis as the posterboy of BJP. “We have exposed the Sena's corruption in BMC.We established that the quality of services in Mumbai was poor. BJP expects a clear majo rity. The mandate will be in our favour, we will not require a post-poll alliance,“ Fadnavis had told ToI a week ago. Uddhav too did not lag behind in his aggressive campaign against BJP, particularly PM   and Fadnavis. “The CM is presiding over a cabinet of goons,“ he observed.Thackeray and his son Aaditya concentrated on Mumbai to ensure that the Sena does not lose control over BMC.
 
 Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam predicted a hung corporation. “Congress will improve its performance. After the BMC polls, Sena and BJP will come together,“ Nirupam said. Nirupam said in the event BJP fails to secure a clear majority , it will be a verdict against the CM, since he had personally led the campaign against the Sena. “The CM will have to accept the verdict and then decide,“ he said.
 
 According to an NCP leader, if Sena secures a clear majority, Thackeray will not hesitate to pull out of the government.
 
 
  
 
