JAIPUR:   and   have engaged in a cold war over collection of urban development (UD) tax. The   ( ) administration has written a letter to district collector asking return of all related files regarding UD tax. 

 According to officials, many institutes have recently challenged JMC in court claiming it has calculated wrong UD tax of their properties. Following this, the court has directed these institutes to present their cases in front of either district collector or JMC. Majority of institutes has appealed district collector’s office for hearing of their cases. 
 
 Official sources said mayor Ashok Lahoti has mentioned that district collector should not interfere in this matter. However, revenue wing of JMC believes district collector is authorised to hear the cases. “As per the Act, district collector can hear cases of the defaulters if there is no existence of UD tax collection committee.” 
 
 Sources further claimed majority of education institutes among list of UD tax defaulters has approached court. 
 
 Meanwhile, JMC has sought directions from state government regarding collection of UD tax from government owned departments. 
 
 JMC has asked for a clarification as state government recently issued orders to calculate UD tax on government department as per institutional rates. Earlier, JMC was calculating tax on these departments as per commercial rates. “State government had issued an order to calculate UD tax for few departments as per institutional rates. We have asked to include all departments. Also, from which date it should be considered as implemented,” said a senior JMC official.
 
 JMC has calculated UD taxes of Rajasthan Roadways Corporation,   (JVVNL) and other government departments on commercial rates. However, as per the orders, JMC has to levy tax on institutional rates on all government departments, other than Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) and its companies. 
 
 According sources, JVVNL grid sub stations have dues of Rs 226.12 crore. But, the department has submitted only Rs 8.06 crore against the dues. 
 
 
