Listen up, millennials. Once upon a time, there was a phone like no other. The   was the most beloved brick of all. There were fancier flip phones and sleeker models, but the 3310 held its own. And now, Nokia is reportedly bringing back its sturdy wonder.

 You see, the Nokia 3310 was just a phone, not a natural extension of you like your   now is. It did its basic dharma, let you phone and text, maybe set an alarm and play a simple game or two. It didn’t tell on you, give away your sleep cycles and habits and data to prying companies. It wasn’t power-hungry, you could go days without charging it. It was tough as hell — I’ve seen it dropped from the first floor, only to be dusted off and put back to work.
 
 Nokia, having retired from the  , is now trading on nostalgia by bringing back its dumbphones. Smart move, because old is now marketing gold. You can’t teach an obsolete phone new tricks, but you can always sucker some sentimental fools into associating it with their own memories.
 
 The quicker the pace of technological change, the greater the draw of the retro, the classic, the vintage, the analogue. From vinyl to cassettes, from typewriters to HMT watches, from ancient videogames to rebooted film franchises to fashion trends, everything is covered by the sweet glaze of nostalgia.
 
 And nothing is too soon for remembrance. You might say the Nokia years were recent enough, but it was a whole other era in mobile phone history. Remember, iPods are collectibles now, and Walkmans are antiques. No one is too young to speak mistily of dead devices. A marketing analyst even traced the curve of “nostalgic capital”, saying that appreciation climbs rapidly 10-15 years after the product comes to notice, peaks, then dips slowly until emotions subside, and it becomes merely a historical item.
 
 Much of this is pure “fauxstalgia”, though. While one might agree that vinyl has a richness not rivalled by digital music, or that film has a texture that digital photos don’t, it is truly hard to come up with a reason to mourn the floppy disk or the cassette. What’s more, nostalgia cycles obviously can’t move at the same pace around the world. While these technologies might have hipster cachet in Brooklyn or Berlin, India lives in several centuries at once. We hold on to things, we repair and recycle what we can. I imagine there are people who are still using their trusty Nokia 3310s, unmindful of its death and resurrection.
 
 But what drives our fascination for what we’ve left behind? For one, life with flat screens gives you a new appreciation of things that are tangible and 3D. Think of the new obsession with adult colouring books and bullet journals. We miss the sense of touch. Buttons and joysticks and knobs are satisfying because they give you feedback. You push against some resistance, you know that your punch has been registered or that your move had an effect. Digital devices sometimes artificially create that click.
 
 In fact, new technologies often try to soften their own disruptions by recreating familiar things, design cues that evoke old objects. Apple was big on the interface design approach called skeumorphism — where software mimics the look of the old-world thing it has replaced. So your settings icon looks like a mechanical gear, your notes app looks like a yellow scratchpad, your mail is a postage stamp. When you click a selfie, your phone still fakes the whir and click of the shutter. These are just ways to keep you comfortable, as you adjust to new ways.
 
 Tech nostalgia has a deeper logic too. It’s what cultural theorist   called the “off-modern” — the loops and detours away from the straight line of progress. You refuse to accept that newer is automatically better. You cling to stuff, you give your own meaning to outmoded objects. But all that said, the Nokia revival is really pushing it. If you had to go back to the good old days, would you really choose 2002? Much as I loved that gallant piece of plastic, that was then, and this is now. I’d much rather glide my fingertips over glass, pinch and zoom, tap and swipe, than exhaust myself sending a 140-character SMS using just number keys. If you miss it that much, maybe just get a tougher case for your smartphone and use it less.
 
