IDUKKI: Despite the clean chit given by chief minister   to Idukki MP  , various reports by revenue officials show that the land status verification at Anchunadu, where Joyce has allegedly encroached land, is in limbo for years. 

  It is alleged that Joice and father George had encroached 32 acres at the proposed Kurinji sanctuary at Kottakambur in Idukki.
 
  The reports by Nivedita P Haran, Sajith Babu and the Devikulam RDO pointed out that the alleged encroachers in the area had been continuously opposing land verification moves.
 
  It was in 2006 that the then forest minister Binoy Viswam announced the formation of a Neelakurinji sanctuary at Kottakambur and Vattavada that included 32 sq km in Devikulam taluk. The government had also announced compensation package and appointed a special officer to collect complaints from the residents, if any. 
 
 But curiously enough, none had come forward with their land documents. When the Devikulam RDO and the special officer conducted a land record checking, the residents resisted the move.
 
  The study on Kurinji sanctuary by Niveditha P Haran in 2014 points out: "A quick verification shall be done by the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau to assert the identity of those who accrued or purchased properties at Anchunad. The identity of elected representatives and senior officials who have purchased lands at Anchunad in violation of statutes in their own or dependents' names shall be collected from annual property returns and vigilance and anticorruption bureau reports and be transferred to the lokayukta for action under law."
 
  The issue came to limelight when Joice George contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Joyce, who was the legal advisor of the people's movement, High Range  , had contested as an independent backed by the LDF.
 
  "A notice has been issued to Joice George to submit the documents of his land at Kottakambur when there was a hue and cry over his alleged encroachment," a revenue official said on condition of anonymity. "But he did not submit any document before the RDO. Recently, Devikulam RDO Sreeram Venkitaraman had stopped possession certificate distribution and started examining land status details of Anchunad. But, on the next day, the CPM and its feeder organizations started a protest and the move was withdrawn," the official said.
 
  P T   said that the CM was misleading the Assembly on Joice's land encroachment. "Joice has not bought a single cent of land there. The MP and the government are trying to sabotage the issue. I have enough documents to prove them wrong," he said.
 
