GURGAON: Commuters travelling towards Delhi from Gurgaon had a harrowing time on Friday due to massive   that lasted for over four hours at Cyber City and   on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway.

 The jam was caused due to the   work at Shankar Chowk. A huge area was barricaded due to which vehicles jostled for space, leading to a traffic   in the area. The snarl at Shankar Chowk soon had a cascading effect on Cyber City as well. The jam started in the afternoon and lasted till 7.30 in the evening. The weekend rush and the fact that office-goers started leaving early for home due to Lohri only added to it.
 
 “I left my office in Cyber City around 4 pm, but the road outside was clogged till Shankar Chowk. It took me around 20 minutes to get out of the gridlock. On other days, it would take me hardly a couple of minutes to reach Shankar Chowk from my office,” said Ankur Gupta, an IT executive.
 
 Some commuters said the road widening work could have easily been done during the weekend when offices are closed and traffic is relatively thin. 
 
 “Friday evenings anyway witness huge rush as many people go back to Delhi early for the weekend. I am sure that the authorities responsible for the road   work could have easily carried out this job on Saturdays and Sundays. Since a large portion of the road at this very important junction was barricaded, it resulted in a huge jam. All that was required was proper planning,” said Shweta Singh, who works in Udyog Vihar.
 
 Authorities from the traffic department said they tried their best to ease the flow of vehicles. “There was a small structure that had to be demolished in order to widen this road. Once this area is widened, the vehicles turning left towards Udyog Vihar can do so easily. It is true this work could have been done during the weekend to avoid inconvenience to commuters. We tried to somehow manage the situation by deploying additional manpower,” said a traffic cop. 
 
 Officials from DLF, which is undertaking the road expansion work, however, declined to comment.
 
 
