NAGPUR: In a surprise for   (NU), not a single student appeared for 324 of the 1,293 examinations conducted in summer this year. Last year, it cancelled 114 exams for the same reason as those would unnecessarily add to its burden.

 NU, however, becomes the first university in the state to have   within 45 days and 82% of them in stipulated period of just 30 days.
 
 “We came to know about these exams after we completed the entire process of result declaration. Even we were startled after coming to know about these exams, which were mostly of annual pattern for failure students. We would analyse everything before deciding future course of action. Of course, those would be cancelled like earlier exams, but after through scrutiny,” said pro-VC Pramod Yeole.
 
 He was speaking to the media after inauguration of the much-awaited students facilitation centre at ground floor of NU examination section on Monday. Developed by  , the plush centre was inaugurated by VC SP Kane in presence of Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram, director of examinations Neeraj Khaty and finance and accounts officer Raju Hiwase.
 
 It has eight counters to cater to the needs of students and would operate through coupon system. “We would be examining the response for two weeks, before finalizing things. We would try to make it one-stop destination for all students’ needs and grievances. We had already inked pact with Yes Bank to provide cashless service to the students,” the VC said.
 
 The state-of-the-art facility will currently offer a slew of services like duplicate mark sheets, migration and eligibility certificates. Interestingly, Promarc isn’t charging a penny from NU as it was part of the original agreement.
 
 “The students would be asked for completing registration through their e-mail Ids and mobile numbers. They would be intimated through SMS after their grievance is redressed,” Kane said.
 
 NU has also started online payment facility on its website where students could complete registration and pay the fees for same set of documents. Though they need to submit its printout at the new centre, it would save their precious time.
 
 NU had declared results of almost all examinations out of 1,293 and only 25 are remaining as colleges failed to submit dissertations of the students.
 
 “We had assured to declare all results and open this centre before July 31, and we fulfilled it. We also declared 25% of revaluation results Interestingly, only 19,000 applied for it as against 50,000-60,000 till last year. Of them, we dispatched 50-60 cases to  ,” Yeole said.
 
 
