NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi   dismissed the plea of its residents’ welfare association,   near Karala village in north-west Delhi was in a sombre mood on Wednesday. The court ruled that   such as Utsav Vihar, unlike jhuggi-jhopri clusters, could not claim protection against   having been “borne out of greed”.

 The court verdict has left many residents in high anxiety. Noor Begum, 48, a residence since 2002, said, “We bought the houses with our hard-earned money, working in factories day in and day out to put a roof over our head. Our struggle can’t be trashed like this.” Her neighbour Lokesh Shrivastav, a former RWA president whose house is in the frontline for demolition, argued, “The high court might be correct in identifying greed for the rise of unauthorised colonies, but it is the greed of property dealers and land-holders, not poor people like us who end up paying for it.” 
 
 The RWA is planning a last throw of the dice — an appeal against the high court’s verdict in the Supreme Court.
 
 Sanjay Bhaumik, among the first to arrive in Utsav Vihar in 1992, said the area then consisted of “all green fields”. This agricultural expanse was originally acquired by Osho followers for an ashram, but after the godman’s death in 1990, property dealers took over, offering small plots at cheap rates, often misleading buyers about the legal status of the land. Today it is home to 900-odd families, mostly from the lower middle economy group. 
 
 Their trouble started in 2004, when the Delhi Development Authority DDA decided to have a   passing through the area. Shakuntala, a septuagenarian resident who survives on the income of her chickpea seller son, wonders where they would go if the houses were demolished. “DDA came with bulldozers in 2007 and pulled down some houses, forcing us to approach the court, which stayed the demolitions,” said Shrivastava. “However, police and DDA officials filed false cases against the resisting residents and these cases are still being tried.”
 
 The four-lane road project has divided the buildings into three categories, each with its own set of vulnerabilities. In greatest danger of demolition are around 50 houses lying directly in the path of the proposed highway. With residents not bothering to maintain them while awaiting court ruling, these houses are the most dilapidated. On either side of them are Blocks A and B, each with around 400 houses. These 50-100-square yard houses are in better shape, though the colony has electric supply but no sewerage, fresh water supply or proper roads. 
 
 Complaining of constant harassment by officials of all agencies involved, the affected people charged the politicians with remembering them only at poll time. “Arvind Kejriwal, Sonia Gandhi, BJP, everyone has promised to regularise the colony at different points of times,” recollected Amar Singh, 47, a factory worker. Utsav Vihar figures in the list of 1,642 unauthorised colonies awaiting regularisation, though its claims have now been rejected by the court. 
 
 
