CHANDIGARH: To conduct a centralized combined counselling for admission to postgraduate courses like MD, MS, MDS and PG diploma in all the medical and dental institutions and to rationalize the fee charged by private and deemed universities in the state, the Haryana government has approved a draft ordinance to amend the Haryana Private Health Sciences Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Maintenance of Educational Standards) Act, 2012.

 The decision to this effect was taken by the state cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday.
 
 As a result of the amendment, all private health educational institutions, including deemed and private universities and courses being run by them in the state, shall be included under the ambit of the Act. Henceforth, all admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in medical, dental and ayurveda in government, government aided, unaided private institutions, institutes under deemed and private universities will be on the basis of UG NEET/PG NEET through the process of centralized combined counselling conducted by the state government.
 
 As the admissions to postgraduate courses for academic session 2017-18 has to commence soon, notification of the requisite amendments in the Act is urgently required. The decision to bring ordinance was taken considering the urgency and the fact that the Haryana legislative assembly is not in session.
 
 Among other decisions, the cabinet has approved draft of the Road Infrastructure Protection Act, 2017, for protection of roads constructed and maintained by the public works (building and roads) department (PWD), except national highways declared under the National Highway Act, 1956. At present, the National Highway Act, 1956, is there to protect the national highways from deliberate damage.
 
 Under the new Act, roads constructed by the PWD would be protected from illegal encroachments and damaged by individuals or community. It has been observed that the state government is spending a good part of its budget to improve the road infrastructure, but the same is negated by illegal encroachments and damaging activities carried out on the roads. 
 
 
 
 
 The cabinet has also approved the proposal by the excise and taxation department to amend the Haryana Value Added Tax Rules to provide for new tax range of Rohtak and re-distribute districts in the ranges, which have now increased to five. The Ambala range will now comprise districts of Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Karnal. Faridabad range will have the districts of Faridabad (East), Faridabad (West), Faridabad (North), Faridabad (South) and Palwal. Similarly, Gurugram range would include Gurugram (East), Gurugram (West), Gurugram (North), Gurugram (South) and Mewat. The Hisar range would have districts of Hisar, Jind, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani. The new range of Rohtak will cover the districts of Rohtak, Panipat, Sonipat, Rewari, Narnaul and Jhajjar.
 
 
 
 
 The cabinet also approved the proposal to exempt bio diesel from levy of value added tax by making a new entry in Haryana Value Added Tax Act, 2003. Bio diesel being a useful alternative of diesel and also good for environment, promoting its use would result in lesser requirement of crude oil and thereby saving foreign exchange on imports of crude oil.
 
