KOCHI: The national transportation planning and research centre (Natpac) has submitted draft of operational study report of Rs 7.73 crore to public works department to implement road safety measures on the Varapuzha ­ Moothakunnam national highway stretch in the wake of increasing number of accidents in this stretch.

 The report was submitted to the PWD a few days ago, which was handed over to the ministry of road transport and highways.
 
 The series of recommendations include installing road sign boards for which Rs 1.6 crore has been earmarked, crash barriers on the 6.45 km stretch for which Rs 2.25 crore has been proposed, reflective studs for Rs 63 lakh, speed bumps on bylanes opening to the national highway , amber lights and 19 medium mast lamps in accident-prone areas for Rs 58 lakh.
 
 The other minor proposals include constructing curb islands, remove vegetation which obstruct vision of drivers from opposite sides, maintenance of pavements and install pedestrian handrails and barricades.
 
 The accident-prone areas identified by the Natpac officials include Koonammavu,  , Shappupady, Thekke Naaluvazhi, SNDP Junction, KMK Junction, Cheriyappilly, Valluvally, Municipal Junction, Thuruthipuram, Paravur Market, Vazhikulangara, Kandakarnan and Andipallykavu.
 
 The short-term measure is to implement the proposals within one or two months. Natpac has been studying the NH from Varapuzha to Moothakunnam following the accident in which four people died on Varapuzha Bridge in January this year. A committee, constituted in   had sought reply from the state government regarding the accident.
 
 “The Varapuzha ­ Moothakunnam stretch lacks even basic road safety measures. There are more than 26 accident prone areas on the 24 km stretch. But the road demands medium and long term road safety measures since it is a narrow one,“ said a scientist who was part of preparing the report.
 
 PWD sought report on short term measures. But the road demands junction improvement, traffic manage ment, shifting bus stops, constructing bus bays and introducing pedestrian facilities which fall under medium term measures. The width of the road is between 5.5metre to 7metre, he said.
 
 “One of our executive engineers is vetting the report which we will forward to the ministry of road transport and highways. The ministry needs to give us permission and allot money for carrying out the proposals. We will hold a meeting with Natpac official soon and send the report to the ministry which in turn will send the report to the committee constituted in the apex court,“ said Prabhakaran K P, chief engineer of NH of PWD.
 
 Chrispin Sam, CI of North Paravoor said, “There are still accidents are reported on the highway from Varapuzha.Most of the accidents are occurred on Varapuzha Bridge.“
 
