GURUGRAM: They had given up their land in hope that the local economy would develop and create jobs that would sustain livelihoods not only for them but the next generation.

 Fourteen years on, no industrial project has come up on the nearly 1,600 acres of land, a massive sprawl across the villages of Gadoli Khurd, Harsaru, Khandsa, Mohammadpur and Narsinghpur, acquired by the government, farming does not happen anymore, and youngsters earn their livelihoods as labourers. Some have turned to crime. Many families fear the next generation will just waste away. “The land was the source of livelihood for five villages and now it has become a reason for our disdain,” says   of Harsaru. The acquisition of land, which was the primary source of income for many  , has led to increased unemployment and crime rates in these villages, he adds.
 
 According to the villagers, when they did farming they provided for at least 10 families other than their own by employing farm labourers, but as their land was taken away, these jobs were also lost. “The land owners employed multiple people and generated jobs for barbers, labourers, cattle herders, ironsmiths, etc. All these jobs went away with our land,” says Ramesh Kumar, a villager from Gadoli who lost two acres in the acquisition.
 
 Balwant Singh, a Harsaru resident who gave up 8.5 acres, says, “Many young men in the villages are turning to crime and addiction in the absence of  . I have three sons who are all working as labourers and just about managing their livelihoods.”
 
 Villagers say governments have not even cared to look back at these villages, let alone undertake any development work, after acquiring land. The school, for instance, lacks basic amenities. Villagers have been also been demanding a playground.
 
 The government’s land acquisition policy mandates a social impact survey. And measures to ensure livelihood and food safety in the area. The roads in Mohammadpur village are overflowing with sewage water. The roads are themselves nothing more than narrow kucchha lanes. “The government has to understand that villages are also growing and it must arrange for basic infrastructure and employment opportunities in these areas as well,” says Nathu Singh of Mohammadpur.
 
 “The condition of these villages is a lesson for the government to understand the consequences of unplanned acquisitions and the fact that villages are as much in need of infrastructural development as the cities,” says Mukhtiyar Singh, another farmer. The villagers argue they would not be protesting and asking for their land back if the government had created enough infrastructure and employment opportunities in these villages.
 
