CHENNAI/HYDERABAD: Tamil Nadu chief minister   is scheduled to visit   on Thursday to meet his counterpart, N  , and prevail upon him to release   to meet the requirements of Chennai, which is facing an acute water crisis. The meeting will take place at Velagapudi, the temporary secretariat complex, in the Amaravati capital region.

 This is the first visit by Panneerselvam to AP since he was sworn in as chief minister on December 6. Last week, he wrote to Naidu to en sure the immediate release of the “agreed“ quantum of water from the Kandaleru reservoir to Tamil Nadu.
 
 Panneerselvam's predecessors M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa too had held talks with neighbouring states for release of water.
 
 TN's contention is that the Kandaleru reservoir, located 180 km away and which supplies water to Chennai, has a “comfortable“ storage of 13.5tmcft, sufficient for water release. “The CM's visit will be useful in impressing upon the AP government the precarious water situation in Chennai,“ said a senior government official. A team of bureaucrats from the public works department and the municipal administration and water supply will accompany Panneerselvam. AP water resources minister   said the government had not taken a decision on release of water to Tamil Nadu. The minister said, “The issue is still under dis cussion. The CM might take a final decision after meeting his TN counterpart.“
 
 Sparing much of the Kandaleru reserve would pose a problem in Rayalaseema and Nellore, the AP officials said.
 
 After OPS wrote to Naidu, AP released water on Monday at 500 cusecsday , and it was further increased to 1,000 cusecsday since Tuesday. “The AP government suspended Krishna water supply twice on November 7 and December 11, which resulted in Tamil Nadu realising only 0.99tmcft until December,“ said a senior PWD official. As per the interstate agreement, TN must get 12tmcft a year, but there has not been a single year when that quantum was released in the last decade.
 
 The combined storage of the four reservoirs in Chennai on Wednesday was1.5tmcft, against the total capacity of 11.05tmcft. The supply can be maintained only for a month.
 
