CHENNAI: If exams come, can   be far behind? As the season nears, more students are approaching guidance cells in schools to fight the fear. From parental pressure to lesson crunching, issues abound when the academic year nears its end and schools are employing different methods to help students overcome their anxiety.

 Schools in the city are either training their staff or outsourcing resource people to help students. While some schools focus on case by case issues, some others advise on pre-emptive practices to help students overcome pressure.
 
 Pon Vidyashram schools have adopted both. It has hired a visiting psychologist to handle problems of students and has allotted separate teachers to counsel on stress management, time management, diet and nutrition. “The issues sprout from either parental pressure or the fear of facing competitive exams. In some cases, parents need   too,” said principal of Pon Vidyashram (Valasaravakkam) Usha Ravichandran. In a class of 40, seven to eight students may need counselling, she said.
 
 These numbers though, said Periyanayaki, a senior counsellor with several schools, do not mean the issue is escalating. “More children are coming forward to talk about their problems,” she said. This could also be because of practices like ‘peer counselling’ set up in some schools.
 
 Maharishi Vidya Mandir, for instance, picks students and trains them to counsel classmates. “This practice has really helped handle many cases of bullying. Students are more open to someone of their age. If the issue is serious then the peer counsellors escalate it to the guidance counsellor attached to the school,” said Periyanayaki.
 
  students are also being counselled by Greater Chennai Corporation ahead of the board exams in March. “We are sending assistant education officers across high schools in the city to teach students how to prepare for the exam. We are giving tips on stress management,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 Although initiatives are being made to help students overcome ‘exam-related problems’, activists say these measures merely paper over the cracks. “When the education system is rigged to churn marks from children, what’s the point in rushing in with counselling sessions right before exams,” said education activist and director of Change India A Narayanan.
 
 Narayanan warned against practices like penalising teachers and educators for not producing 100% pass results or a specific number of centum. These should be weeded out if children are to face exams without fear, he said. Schools should also have a suggestion box in the counsellor’s office such that children hesitant to speak about their issues can leave notes to the school counsellor, Narayanan said.
 
