They don’t need an introduction. Not just known for their mission to bring reggae to the world,   is also famous for their brotherly feuds, musical clashes and of course, their major international hits. Since their formation in 1973, this multi-racial crossover reggae, pop and dub band has been nominated four times for the Grammys (Best Reggae Album). 

 With over 70 million records, UB40 have belted out hits including 'I Can’t Help Falling In Love With You', 'Kingston Town', 'Red Red Wine' and 'Higher Ground'. The diverse original line-up of the band had English, Irish, Jamaican, Scottish and Yemeni musicians. But after UB40 split due to a bitter fall out in 2008, both the groups stuck to the same famous name. While one group was led by   (the founder member), the other was led by his brother,  . 
 
 In Mumbai, after almost two decades, Duncan’s UB40 recently performed for thousands of fans at the   in Phoenix Marketicty, Kurla. The European themed Dublin Square, spread across the 40,000 sq.ft, is the hub of entertainment and hosts a variety of events such as plays, theatre, musical events, and live performances. Bombay Times caught up with the band and discussed the infamous split, their brand of reggae music and their experience of performing in the city again. Excerpts... 
 
 
 
 Well, of course, it was traumatic when Ali left. But we still have five of the original six founding members. And the sound and the spirit of UB40 is still strong. In fact, now we are happier.
 
 
 
 Ali has a habit of saying what suits him at different times. In a previous interview, before he left the band and Duncan took over, he stated that Duncan had the better voice. So, you can take his bitter rants with a pinch of salt, like we do.
 
 
 
 Well, the case is on going, so I don’t want to say too much, but there is only one UB40. There are many legal precedents. No matter who leaves the band, the remaining members are still the band. We have continued to record and perform as UB40 and therefore, neither he nor any other ex-member has the right to use our name.
 
 
 
 We came here nearly 20 years ago and played at a Bollywood awards show. That was followed by a concert the next day, at the same venue which was a cricket ground. This time, it has been a great experience meeting our Indian fans. The energy of the crowd at Dublin Square was fantastic. It has been an absolute pleasure for the band to perform here in Mumbai at Phoenix Marketicty, Kurla. We look forward to coming back to Mumbai soon.
 
 
 
 We come from Birmingham, which is a multi-cultural city and of course we’ve heard Bollywood songs, Indian classical music and bhangra. We’ve even worked with a few Indian artistes, including the Dhol Drummers and a singer called Hunterz. Indian vocalists are legendary.
 
 
 
 Reggae is an ever growing, ever changing world music, which seems to be thriving in every corner of the globe. Every country that we visit seems to have its own reggae artistes. 
 
 
 
 It’s not that long. We have slowed down a little on the recording side because we have been working so hard at touring. We will start work on our latest album soon. 
 
 
 
 Reggae has a long tradition of covering songs from other genres. Apart from a few songs, we’ve been asked to do covers for movie soundtracks. The songs we’ve done, specifically the Labour Of Love series, are all songs previously recorded in the early days of reggae. We recorded them because we wanted our fans to know about the music we grew up on and made us want to be in a band.
 
 
 
 Well, obviously they don’t always work. You can’t guarantee success with a cover. After all, they are just versions of previously recorded songs and they’re not always as good or better than the original.
 
 
