TRICHY: With the massive stir against the hydrocarbon extraction project gaining momentum across the state, protesters in   have planned a series of protests until the Union government abandons the project. They have also decided to file a petition before the National Green Tribunal ( ) against the Union government’s decision to execute the exploration project.

 Over 70 representatives from various villages formed a committee to lead the stir in the right direction. They have adopted a resolution asking the state government to pass a resolution in the assembly making all villages in and around Neduvasal fall under protected zone. 
 
 Villagers from Karukakuruchi, Kottaikadu, Vadakadu and   in the district, where ONGC had earmarked to dig bore wells and representatives from 70 villages are part of the committee. They met at Neduvasal, where hundreds of villagers continued to protest on Monday. They unanimously decided to continue their protest till the project is abandoned. 
 
 In the days to come, they will be conducting a series of novel protests. In one such protest, they plan to light earthen lamps in front of homes situated in villages where the project will be implemented. In another, they plan to hoist black flags atop houses. They may also return their voter ID and Aadhar cards in protest.
 
 Another protest planned is a massive human chain starting from Neduvasal and ending at the Pudukkottai collectorate. All panchayat heads have been asked to convene a meeting in their respective villages to adopt a resolution asking the Union government to revoke the project. These resolutions would be forwarded to the state and the Centre.
 
 The trading community will down their shutters on March 1 to express their solidarity with the protesting villagers.
 
 Meanwhile, students from across the central region, staged a protest against the proposed project. More than 100 students from Thiru vi ka Arts College in Tiruvarur district conducted a demonstration in front of the college condemning the Centre, skipping classes on Monday. Students of   in Ariyalur, Government Law College in Trichy and arts college students from Mayiladuthurai in   district also took out a rally raising slogans against the Centre and the project.
 
 
