JAIPUR: Muslims leaders have acknowledged the rising sectarianism promoted by various Islamic sects in Rajasthan.

 Leaders of different sects—Sufis, Deobandis ( ) and Shias—have called for organising joint meetings of various sects to reduce tension that has often led to law and order issues.
 
 Recently, Sunni Muslims didn’t allow the burial of a follower of the Wahabbi school at their burial ground in Chittorgarh.
 
 At a session on ‘Ittehad and Islam’, Syed Bilal Chishty, ‘gaddi nashin’ and a ‘khadim’ at Dargah Ajmer, said, “Members of Jamiat Ulema-I-Hind (JUH), a social organ of Deobandi Muslims, visited the dargah in Ajmer which represents Sufi Muslims in last November. This had a positive impact on followers of both schools in the Indian sub-continent. The idea is to create common platforms to bury differences and to make Muslims part of the progressive society.”
 
 He asked Muslims to remember the verse in Holy Quran which says that there’s no difference between an Arab and a non-Arab, black and white.
 
 Yasmeen Farooqui, member,   (AIMPLB), said that sectarian divisions can be seen in some regions and not across the country. “These regions have been identified and AIMPLB is working to bridge the gap to minimize such conflicts,” Farooqui said.
 
 Such interactions between various sects are required for peace, said Mohammad Atiq, secretary of the  , underscoring the importance of scholarly work to counter the divisive narrative emerging from ignorance.
 
 Rajasthan has seen many instances of sectarian violence, especially in the Mewar region. Maimuna Nargis, a Shia Muslim, underlined the message of unity referring to the Holy Quran and ‘Hadees’. “It appears that some forces are deliberately trying to create a rift in the society. Any act which promotes divisiveness should be condemned and discouraged,” Nargis said.
 
 Box: Urdu teachers demand pay revision
 
 Jaipur: Addressing a gathering of madrassa para and Urdu teachers, two cabinet ministers—Yunus Khan (PWD) and   (Panchayati Raj)—assured them to consider their demand of revising the pay scale of ‘para’ teachers. The address took place at Ravindra Rangmanch in Jaipur on Sunday during the annual meet of   (RUTA). The programme was attended by 1,000 teachers and ‘para’ teachers from across the state. The main demand of the association is the revision of pay scales of ‘para’ teachers, which is currently between Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,500. “We also asked the cabinet ministers to prepare a roadmap for the promotion of Urdu language which is dying a slow death. This language is soul of Ganga-Jamuna ‘tahzeeb’ and it is our duty to revive this ‘zubaan’ (language),” said Ameen Kaimkhany, president, RUTA.
 
