MUMBAI: When   is introduced in certain  , he isn't asked if he's related to  , the  , but rather if he has any connection to `Eggs Kejriwal'. He always replies in the affirmative.

 Long a favourite at the Willingdon Sports Club, `Eggs Kejriwal' was invented in the 1960s by his late uncle Devi Prasad Kejriwal. A conservative Marwari businessman, he couldn't eat eggs at home and so would tuck into a sumptuous breakfast at the club after a round of golf.
 
 “He would tell the waiter how to make it with a slice of cheese, a fried egg and, being a Marwari, he liked green chillies,“ says Ajay Kejriwal. “It got its name because other members would say , `Get us what Kejriwal is eating.'“ Last month, this Mumbai concoction topped a list of 10 New York dishes compiled by New York Times food critic Pete Wells. “It's a fried egg on toast under melted Cheddar that stands out from all others because of a throatcatching green chutney that has a glossy underpinning of coconut oil,“ wrote Wells in his review.
 
 Wells sampled this Bombay speciality at Paowalla, a SoHo restaurant started by celebrated chef and Mumbai native Floyd Cardoz.
 
 “It's a very homely dish that everyone can connect with because everyone ate cheese chilli toast growing up or in the US, a grilled cheese sandwich,“ says Cardoz adding that they serve between 15 to 20 portions a night and the dish has become even more popular since the list came out.
 
 The Paowalla version of the dish has little connection to the Willingdon's Amul cheese and chopped chillies version. “We cook our Kejriwal in a wood-burning oven so it gets a smoked taste,“ says Cardoz, adding that they also use a brioche for the sweetness and a sharp Cheddar cheese mixed with fresh Serrano chillies.
 
 In recent years, the `Eggs Kejriwal' has popped up on many city eatery menus including Theobroma, The Nutcracker and Cardoz's Mumbai venture Bombay Canteen. He says his partner at Bombay Canteen was inspired to include it on the menu when Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party began hogging the headlines.
 
 However, Ajay Kejriwal, who has sampled “creative interpretations“ of his uncle's invention in London and New York, remains loyal to the original.
 
 “The Willingdon version is still the best of the lot,“ he says.
 
