CHANDIGARH: Even   of Germany will not be able to save a goal on this ground! One of the best goalkeepers in the world will probably have to fly to reach the ball. But then scoring one will equally test the likes of   and  , what to talk of students of Government Model High School in Sector 42. That's because a fence cuts right through the goalposts of the school ground, a masterpiece in ignorance by the engineering department of the UT administration. 

 In its hurry to earmark an area for playing games in the evening -the administration had ordered that playgrounds of government schools be opened for children after school hours - the engineering department forgot the main purpose of the ground - for playing football. 
 
 That's not all. Pole for floodlights too have been put up near the goalpost. The   has not only diminished chances of raising a new football or hockey pitch but affected the practice of students.
 
 One of the teachers at the school told TOI that there have been complaints from the students about the fencing. "Some of the students have approached me, pointing out that their practice has been hit."
 
 One of the students said, "We don't know why the fencing has been done. The size of the playground is now less than half. We have taken our complaints to teachers but no action has been taken yet." In the past, the school has organised inter-school hockey and football championships and hosted many   as well. 
 
 Interestingly, the fencing has not been erected recently. It has been there for over a year. One of the junior engineers in the department said, "The contractor built the fence as per instructions and measurement given to the company by the engineering department. The work to install floodlights will start soon. At present, eight of them that have been put up."
 
 C B Ojha, superintending engineer, UT, said, "I can't comment right now. I will look into the matter. As far as the goalposts are concerned, we will put them in a different spot so that the kids can play without any hindrance." 
 
