BENGALURU: Wine-makers and aficionados came together in the city as the International Wine Festival 2017 got off to a flying start on Friday. The three-day event is being held at   near Manyata Tech Park in Nagawara. 

 T here are 30 wineries, including those from France, United States of America, New Zealand and Australia, participating in the festival, organized by the Karnataka Wine Board and department of horticulture. Adding to the weekend fervour, the carnival offers wine tasting, wine & cheese, wine & food pairing, and grape stomping. The international brands include Moet Chandon (France), Zonin (Italy), Bodega Norton (Chile). 
 
 Inaugurating the festival, agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda said the government put in place a preferential policy to promote wine and kept the drink out of its liquor policy. He said the wine industry has been encouraged to launch boutiques across the state; two were set up recently in Belagavi.
 
 "Encouraging the wine industry is to encourage grape farmers. The very idea of the festival is to showcase the potential of agro-based grapes and the wine industry," said Byre Gowda.
 
  He said Karnataka is second only to Maharashtra in terms of wine sale and grape production. The volume of wine sales has been pegged at Rs 183 crore, and grapes are being grown in near   in Bengaluru, Bagalkot and Vijayapura. 
 
 Karnataka Wine Board chairman Ravindra Shankara Mirje said the board is planning to bring out its own brand of wine in two years. The board will grow grapes in the 141-acre Wine Park, proposed to be developed in Vijayapura, and brew wine to be sold at taverns across the state. "We are planning to set up taverns on the lines of retail liquor outlets of   (MSIL)," Mirje explained.
 
 To attract people, discounts are being offered on wines costing in the range between Rs 50 and Rs 3,250 per bottle. The entry fee to the festival is Rs 49 per head. 
 
  Grape growers' threat 
 
  Amid the festival fervour, grape growers took the opportunity to seek the government's intervention to make grape cultivation viable for them. They threatened to stop farming and declare an indefinite cultivation holiday from next month if their demands are not met. 
 
 "The farmers will stop grape cultivation from May if our demands are not met," said K H Krishna Reddy, president of Karnataka State Wine Grapes Grovers Association.
 
