MUMBAI: Students opting for admission to   (FYJC) can select only one stream and opt for a maximum of 10 colleges, instead of 50 in the city, from the next academic year. The FYJC   admission process will also be extended to Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik and Aurangabad.

 A school education department government resolution said online   were undergoing changes after feedback from previous years in Mumbai and Pune. “After the experience in 2016-17, complaints from parents and students and reports by deputy directors of education in Mumbai and Pune, we decided to improve online admissions by introducing changes on the basis of a select principals’ meeting on December 29, 2016, and recommendations in the audit report of last year’s admissions,” said department under-secretary Suvarna Kharat. Mumbai’s admission process, which had over 2.32 lakh students register, went on for over four months last year.
 
 Students who could opt for two streams while applying for admissions can now pick only one, but they can change their stream during admission rounds. The choice of college will not be restricted by zone or wards too. Students can pick 10 colleges in their region.
 
 From 2017-18, admissions will begin in the first week of June. Once SSC results are out, the education department will conduct four rounds of admission, once every week between June 15-July 15, after which class XI can begin classes. “After each round, students can change their college preferences for the next round, depending on vacancies,” said the GR. The department will conduct three additional rounds of admission, once every two weeks, up to September 1.
 
 Students will no more have the option of provisional admissions. “Students given their first preference will have to pay fees and secure admission, after which they will be restricted from being allotted a seat in following rounds. If a student gets a college which is not his/her first choice, but wants to take admission, he/she can pay fees and then will be restricted from further rounds. Those who do not take admission can wait for further rounds,” said the GR.
 
 Admissions to the higher secondary vocational course and quota seatsreligious or linguistic minority, in-house and managementtoo will be online. The ‘zero round’ will be conducted before other rounds begin, after which colleges will have to surrender vacant seats to the department.
 
 The department will conduct admissions against vacancies after September 1. Students can seek admission on first-come, first-serve basis up to the time they appear for class XII board exams. All exits and readmissions will be updated on the website. The government will issue a separate notification on fees for the online process.
 
 
