BENGALURU: From fishermen to shepherds living in the hills, the state government has proposed 42 communities to be added under the scheduled tribes (ST) category . However, 38 of them will be under a single tribe.
The   in Mysuru, the nodal agency to study tribes before adding them, has submitted reports on four different communities to be added to the ST list.While two of them have been pending at the Centre for long, the other two are yet to be cleared at the state level.These include Gangamathas, Betta Kurubas, Siddis (outside Uttara Kannada), Parivara and Talwaras.
 
 The institute bases its findings on five primary criteria which have been laid down by the   and the Centre.These include primitive traits, geographical isolation, shyness of contact, distinctive culture and backwardness of the communities. Sources said there's pressure from politicians, parties and communities to add 20 to 30 other backward caste and scheduled caste communities under the ST category for reservation benefits.
 
 “We need a government order to conduct a study on communities before recommending them to be added to the ST list,“ institute director Basavanagouda Patil said. Of the four tribes recommended for the ST list, Gangamathas are the largest. The institute has found 38 communities which are similar in their distinctive culture and backwardness.
 
 “They are known by different names and have been recommended to be brought under Gangamathas community,“ Patil said.The proposal is pending with the Centre.
 
 The other community likely to be added is Betta Kurubas. Kurubas, primarily shepherds, have different distinctions among them.While some have been resid ing in the plains, others are isolated in forests and hillocks. They are seen primarily in Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and neighbouring areas. The survey on Betta Kurubas is under way. Chief minister Siddaramaiah is also a Kuruba, but is said to be from backward caste 2-A category . “It will take us some time to prepare the report and send it to the state,“ Patil pointed out.
 
 On the delay in   getting the ST tag, Uttara Kannada district incharge minister R V Deshpande said the government had already sent details to the Centre and is waiting for clearance.
 
