Four months ago, when Noida-based dairy farmer Manoj Baisoya, aka  , entered the ' ' house, he was an aam aadmi. By winning the popular reality show, he has not only become Rs 40 lakhs richer (half of which he is donating to charity), but has also crossed the threshold from non-celeb to celeb. Speaking to us moments after his big win,   shared his first reaction after winning, why he was never homesick in the 'Bigg Boss' house and his career plans now. Excerpts:

  
 
 Forget about winning, I hadn’t even thought about entering the show. It all happened by chance for me, when some friends asked me to try my luck. Jab maine enter kiya bhi tha, tab bhi kabhi yeh nahi laga tha ki itni lambi journey hogi and I will get here. After winning the show, I met my family and they told me how my supporters had put up posters and hoardings while campaigning for me. I’m so thankful to all of them. Yeh ehsaan nahi utrega mujhse shayad kabhi.
 
 
 You all have seen me on the show – ek taraf mehnat karta hoon, par doosri taraf emotional hoon. Itna bada achievement ghar waalon ke saamne hua, for whom I have been trying to make something of myself for years – it’s natural to get emotional. Aaankhon mein aansu aa gaye. When I met my family and hugged them, only then did it hit me that I had won. Achha yeh lag raha hai ki show toh jeeta hi hai, logon ka dil bhi jeeta hai.
 
  
 
 I missed my entire family so much during these three-and-a-half months, particularly because I have never lived away from them for so long. Ab kisi ek ka naam loonga toh baaki sab ke liye galat ho jayega. But I was never homesick inside the 'Bigg Boss' house. Kuch aisa atmosphere bana wahan ki main kuch time ke liye wahin ka ho kar reh gaya.
 
  
 
 Ab main kya hi karoonga Noida aakar? Log hi mere saath karenge jo karna hai. As for the future, it’s too early to take a call. It seems like I have just won some battle and I need to rest for now. I’m still numb from winning the show, toh pehle toh isko enjoy karna chahoonga. This show has given me a platform, and people seemed to like whatever I did. Toh ab toh chahoonga ki entertainer hi ban ke rahoon. So if I get good opportunities to continue to be among the public and entertain them, I will grab them with both hands.
 
  
  
 
 
