Chennai: Tired of watching web series in English and Hindi on OTT platforms, Kaushik Aroskar was pleasantly surprised to watch a web series in Marathi on SonyLIV. “Shows in English and Hindi are fun, but I could get the connect with Marathi web series and I can watch it when l want, since it is available on demand,” he said.  In the scramble for viewership, OTT players have been investing heavily on having their own content or acquiring exclusive content. Reports from research firm IHS market says that Amazon and Netflix spent close to $7.5 billion on making and marketing original content. With viewership of web series growing in tier-2, 3 and 4 cities owing to smartphone penetration and 4G internet, home-grown OTT platforms have taken a step further to invest in original & acquired digital-only regional content in languages besides Hindi & English. Marathi, Punjabi, Oriya, Tamil, Bhojpuri are the popular languages. SonyLIV has launched of ‘YOLO’, a Marathi web-series that has hit 3 million views and YuppTV has partnered with actor Mahesh Babu to launch its own content. “TV shows cannot be copied on OTT platforms considering the attention span of audience on small screen is less. Also, for web series, the storyline is different as the audience watches the shows on their personal devices in their personal time,” said Uday Sodhi, EVP and head — digital business, Sony Pictures Networks India. Platforms are also looking at talking to regional production houses that usually post content on YouTube in order to increase the regional language base. Since the shows are subtitled in English as well, native content is viewed beyond the respective state. “For instance, food and music related shows, which showcase native recipes or music are being accessed by users outside,” said Tanay Desai, co-founder, Dekkho. Around 70% of the total shows are watched within the targeted regions and NRIs and expats also form a growing market. While their Tamil and Telugu content is being watched in the Middle East, Punjabi rules in USA & UK. The regional language content is seeing a 60-65% growth every month. To appeal to makers of regional content, nexGTv has launched spotlight and is seeing 15% of the entries in regional languages. “There have been instances of original videos coming in from Jamshedpur and regional content on our platftom, is seeing close to 40% of the viewership in comparison to the counterparts in English and Hindi,” said Abhesh Verma, COO, nexGTv.