CHANDIGARH: The   and Haryana high court on Monday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) comprising an IPS officer, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) rank official and a woman inspector of Chandigarh police to probe the leakage of preliminary examination for the recruitment of judicial officers in Haryana.

 A full-bench comprising Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice G S Sandhawalia passed these orders after examining a list of officers suggested by the Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Tejender Singh Luthra.
 
 "On the basis of inputs given by Luthra and  , public prosecutor, UT, Chandigarh, the SIT consisting of Ravi Kumar Singh, IPS, SP (crime and investigation), Krishan Kumar, DSP (security and operation) and inspector Poonam Dilawari, is constituted for investigation of the case", ordered the bench. The bench further directed the registrar (vigilance) of high court to supply copy of the report of inquiry conducted by him along with supporting documents to Sukant Gupta, additional public prosecutor, UT, Chandigarh, for further action. The case would now come up for further hearing on Tuesday at 2pm.
 
 The matter had reached before the   in the wake of a petition filed by Suman, a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula, seeking registration of a criminal case to unearth the scam involving leakage of the examination of prestigious services.
 
 She had produced an audio recording of some candidates claiming that most of the seats for selection of the prestigious examination have already been sold out for Rs 1.5 crore and selection of candidates has already been finalized. She had specifically named two women candidates Sunita and Sushila for being allegedly involving in the scam.
 
 Later, the court had found that both Sunita (general category) and Sushila (reserved category) were topping the examination with exceptionally high marks in their respective categories.
 
 An internal probe conducted by the HC has already found the registrar (recruitment) Balwinder Kumar Sharma responsible for leakage of paper to Sunita. The probe committee had also recommended registration of an FIR in the case. The HC on Friday had recommended suspension of Balwinder Sharma.
 
