PUNE: Several politicians in the city relentlessly tried to promote their heirs in politics and handover legacy to them, but a few succeeded because majority of the Puneites’ revulsion at dynastic politics.

 Once the centre of freedom movement, stalwarts like Gopal Krishna Gokhale and Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak led the national movement from Pune. While Gokhale’s heirs failed in politics, Tilak’s family members could not match his stature.
 
 Tilak’s son, Shridhar, was not supported by his own followers. Jayantrao — his grandson — was considered as a prominent figure in the state politics. But he could not achieve great heights in electoral politics.
 
 Deepak Tilak, the great grandson of Lokmanya, and his son, Rohit, failed to establish themselves in politics. Rohit lost in Assembly polls from the  . Today, Mukta Tilak is the only representative of the family in civic politics.
 
 Heirs and relatives of veteran leaders, including S M Joshi, Nanasaheb Gore and Bhai Vaidya, never became a part of active politics. Except the city’s first MP N V Gadgil, no other MP could push the political career of their heirs.
 
 Gadgils’s son, Vitthalrao, made it big in politics and was a prominent figure in the Congress. But his son, Anant Gadgil, had to struggle hard to get membership of the Legislative Council and failed to make his mark in Pune politics.
 
 From Shankarrao More, S M Joshi, Mohan Dharia to Anna Joshi, Pradeep Rawat and Suresh Kalmadi — all former city MPs were strong leaders during their tenure. But their kin could not make it big in politics.
 
 Kalmadi’s family members have preferred to keep away from politics, while former MP Vitthal Tupe’s son, Chetan, could not make it to the Assembly. Sitting MP Anil Shirole is promoting his son, Siddharth, now. He would contest the civic elections on the BJP ticket, notwithstanding the opposition to his candidature within the party. The MP had sought candidature for his son in the 2014 Assembly polls, but his plans were scuttled by the BJP leadership.
 
 Those who represented the city in the Assembly could push their heirs up to the municipal politics, but failed to take them to the Assembly.
 
 Chandrakant Chhajed, Balasaheb Shivarkar, Ramesh Bagwe and Shashikant Sutar started their career in civic politics and represented the city in the state cabinet. But their sons got stuck in civic politics.
 
 Pune guardian minister Girish Bapat’s son is not active in politics. “I have not given ticket to him,” Bapat said, quipping that others, including his party MP Shirole, were promoting their sons.
 
 Political observers feel the BJP leaders’ attempt to set the trend of dynastic politics would not go down well with Puneites. “I think people must not support dynastic politics at any level — be it local or national. Those who have calibre must excel. Politics should not be a prerogative of a selected few who have political background or money power,” said homemaker Reshma Kolhe.
 
 Politicians have a different take on the matter. “We are not industrialists or businessmen. We are politicians and our kids learn politics while they work with us. It is up to people to elect or reject them,” BJP state unit chief Raosaheb Danwe said in an interview to a local TV channel.
 
 Congress state president Ashok Chavan said no politician thrusts sons and daughters on voters. He said everyone had to get the stamp of people’s approval.
 
