New Delhi: Members of the executive council (EC) of Delhi University have alleged foul play by the vice-chancellor in the selection process of the principal of Shri Ram College of Commerce ( ).

 Ordinance 18 of “colleges other than those maintained by the government” states that the selection committee is supposed to have two members of the executive council nominated by it. The EC members have alleged that although the members who attended the council meeting were a part of the council, there was no nomination process.
 
 “The matter was not brought before us and we did not take part in nominating the members for the selection committee,” said JL Gupta, a member of EC and Delhi University court. He also alleged that a senior faculty member who was not a member of the EC was present in the meeting. He was not authorised to take part in the selection process according to the ordinance.
 
 The EC members alleged that the selection process for the college principal was constantly delayed. The advertisement for the post was uploaded in January 2016 and the university forwarded the names of the selection committee members in November 2016. The apex committee met for the selection process after six months on May 12, 2017.
 
 DU   Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to queries by TOI on the allegations by the EC members and the cause of delay for the selection process. While the selection process is currently on, EC members are yet to receive a response from the vice-chancellor.
 
 “The glaring irregularities in the selection committee cannot be dismissed. The selection process must be fair and the rules specified in the ordinance cannot be  ,” said an EC member.
 
 A member of the apex committee alleged that the interview process was unfair and the favoured candidate was given an unfair advantage while others were asked vague questions. “The VC asked a candidate about his higher secondary marks and insisted that he was testing his memory. Other candidates faced similar questions, whereas the interview for the favoured candidate was brief,” said an apex committee member, insisting that the VC made a mockery of the process.
 
 
