INDORE: The   report of Congress leader,   (45) of  , revealed   as reason behind his death. Now, police will approach a team of medico-legal experts to investigate the case of alleged medical negligence with legal implications.

 “The body was sent to MY hospital on Thursday’s morning, where a team of doctors performed post-mortem examination. The short PM report says cardiorespiratory failure is the reason behind Gangwal’s death,” said MIG police station in-charge Taresh Soni.
 
 The post-mortem report and treatment related documents have been send to medico-legal team, which will investigate the matter and help police, Soni added.
 
 Meanwhile, family members were handed over the body for performing Gangwal’s last rites.
 
 Following heart related ailments, Gangwal was admitted in CHL hospital on Tuesday for bypass surgery.
 
 According to the family members, the doctors first informed them that the surgery performed successfully but around half-an-hour later, they informed about Gangwal’s death citing post complications of the surgery as reason behind his death.
 
 The situation soon turned tense since the patient’s family members and supporters allegedly vandalized furniture and glass-panels outside the operation theatre.
 
 Soni said that while the hospital management has not registered FIR against the miscreants for damaging the hospital’s property, on the basis of the medico-legal team’s reports, the police will take action against doctors for medical negligence, if found.
 
 Tukoganj police are yet to establish identification of those who vandalized furniture in Gokuldas hospital on last Friday.
 
 Following the death of a RSS worker Himmatsingh Rathore, his family members and supporters had allegedly damaged the hospital’s property reportedly for medical negligence in the treatment.
 
 Tukoganj police station in-charge Dilip Singh Choudhari said that the short post-mortem report has established suffocation as one of the reasons behind the death.
 
 Despite having CCTV footages, the police have failed to establish identity of the miscreants in last five days.
 
