CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered a   into alleged siphoning of funds for non-existent four lakh students in various government schools in Haryana.

 The probe would be carried out by an officer of the rank of superintendent of police (SP) of  
 
 The HC took the decision to hand over the probe to Vigilance Bureau on Wednesday after the Haryana advocate general (AG) suggested the court for the same.
 
 A division bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal also asked the Haryana directorate of school education to deploy its two officers to assist the investigating officer during the probe.
 
 During the hearing of the case on Wednesday, additional chief secretary (school education)   was also present before the court as per the court directions. Upset over the delay in holding an inquiry into the matter, Justice Bindal observed that apparently, the department is trying to save the guilty officials involved into the alleged irregularities.
 
 Further observing that court has no faith in the education department officers, Justice Bindal asked the advocate general Haryana, B R Mahajan to assist the court on the issue. Mahajan suggested the court to hand over the matter to state vigilance bureau, which the court accepted.
 
 The matter has been fixed for August 1 for further hearing.
 
 The matter related to alleged fake admissions in the state-run schools was first discussed in May 2016 before the high court during the hearing of a case related to surplus teachers in the state.
 
 Certain reports revealed as against the enrolment of 22 lakh students in government schools in different classes, only 18 lakh students were traced by the department. The remaining four lakh admissions were allegedly found to be fake. There were allegations that these four lakh admissions were shown in the record to get funds under various schemes of the government.
 
 Hearing about the alleged irregularities, the HC on May 13, 2016 had asked the state to conduct an inquiry by appointing a senior officer on the issue. The department, however, did not appoint any officer till March 16 after which the HC had summoned additional chief secretary (school education) to appear in person to explain the delay in probe.
 
