PATNA: Lakhs of people, including schoolchildren, joined the   in support of total prohibition by holding each other’s hands across the state on Saturday.

 In  , more than 10 lakh people participated in the human chain covering a distance of around 388-km. A large number of men, women and children started forming the human chain since early in the morning. A   prevailed in the district as people came out of their houses in groups to participate in the human chain.  , however, remained disrupted for several hours due to the event.
 
 In Khagaria, around four lakh people formed 190-km long human chain to support total prohibition and de-addiction in the state. Khagaria DM Jai Singh and SP Anil Kumar Singh were seen supervising the programme since morning. 
 
 Over 10 lakh people participated in the human chain in West Champaran district and the participants carried banners and placards on harmful effects of alcohol. Tableaus in support of prohibition were displayed on NH-28 (B) near Kuria Kothi under Manuapul police station, Shastrinagar chowk under Bagaha-1 block, Bhutnath College and Bagaha sub-divisional headquarters. Total length of the human chain in the district was around 480km.
 
 In Nawada district, the human chain covered a distance of 258-km. State parliamentary affairs minister and Nawada district-in-charge Shrawan Kumar, DM Manoj Kumar and SP Vikas Burman said the programme was a success in the district. 
 
 In Bhojpur district, it seemed that no one wanted to miss this historic opportunity to lend support to a noble cause like prohibition and de-addiction. Besides thousands of schoolchildren, Bhojpur SP Kshatranil Singh’s wife Aarti Singh also participated in the human chain with wives of other police officials at Ara. Talking to mediapersons, Aarti Singh said, “It is a matter of pride for me that I am taking part in the noble effort that helps to create a civilized society.” 
 
 State labour resources minister and in-charge of Bhojpur district Vijay Prakash also participated in the human chain with local MLAs. The total length of human chain in Bhojpur district was around 314-km.
 
 Around nine lakh people participated in the 400-km long human chain in Sitamrahi district. The human chain was formed between Korlahia on NH-77 and Sonbarsa on the Indo-Nepal border. Sitamarhi DM Rajiv Raushan monitored and participated in the event along with other senior officials, including SP Hari Prasath S. 
 
 In Chhapra, filming of the event by drone had been the centre of attraction. A large number of people, including children, youth, senior citizens, women and ‘divyangs’ participated in the human chain. Before the formation of the human chain, a rally was taken out from local stadium to mark the event. Saran commissioner N Lal said prohibition has brought a major social change and sent a message to the world. DIG A K Rai and others also addressed the participants of the rally.
 
 In East Champaran district, over 10.5 lakh people participated in the human chain which covered a distance of around 446-km.
 
 Over 11 lakh people formed a 395-km long human chain in Nalanda district to support prohibition. Schoolchildren, who formed the major chunk of the human chain, chanted slogans against liquor consumption. Thousands of college students, teachers, women workers of Jeevika, representatives of non-governmental organisations, religious leaders, intellectuals, businessmen and netas participated in the human chain.
 
 In Darbhanga, at least seven lakh people joined hands to form 342-km long human chain. DM Chandrashekhar Singh, teaching and non-teaching employees of LNMU and KSDSU, several schoolchildren and women participated in the human chain. In rural areas, people voluntarily joined in the chain. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the district.
 
 In Bhagalpur district, the length of the human chain was more than 200km and the number of participants was around 10 lakh. Schoolchildren, social workers, professionals and commoners actively participated in the chain. 
 
 (With inputs from TOI correspondents in Madhubani, Khagaria, Bagaha, Nawada, Ara, Sitamarhi, Motihari, Chhapra, Biharsharif, Darbhanga and Bhagalpur)
 
