CHENNAI: Take a spade to the soil in Adyar and, odds are, you're going to strike fresh ground water at a depth of just 10 feet. Thanks to Cyclone Vardah, which, in the middle of drought-like conditions, brought the only sustained precipitation to the city this rainy season. Though it wreaked devastation, uprooting tens of thousands of trees and temporary structures, it did carry some rainfall -enough to raise groundwater levels across the city.

 A survey by the water conservation group Rain Centre shows groundwater went up by nearly 15cm after Vardah.
 
 Rain Centre director Sekhar Raghavan recommends that residents sink tubewells to tap the city's current groundwater resources. Most residents of the city sink wells in places that are hardest to find water -above deep aquifers at a depths between 100ft and 200ft -and tend to overlook shallow aquifers that are at a depth of barely 8ft to 12ft.
 
 Rain Centre monitors groundwater levels in the city through 91 observation wells. It compared groundwater levels in the Adyar river basin before and after Vardah and discovered that shallow aquifers rose by up to a few feet.
 
 The rise in the groundwater table was steepest in localities like Adyar, Besant Nagar, Santhome and Manapakkam. Seven observation wells in Gandhi Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Indira Nagar and on MG Road in Adyar indicated that the groundwater shot up to 8.5ft from its previous depth of 12ft. Adyar has mostly sandy soil that is favourable for percolation of rainwater into shallow aquifers.
 
 Raghavan points to a similar case in Mandavelipakkam, off  , where the groundwater table is only 5ft deep as residents either use borewells or depend completely on Metrowater supply .
 
 Rain Centre's observation wells near Shastri Bhavan and   in Besant Nagar showed groundwater levels climbed from 12ft to 7.5ft. “As soil is sandy in coastal areas like Besant Nagar, percolation and water-retention is higher,“ Raghavan says.
 
 In Mylapore and Alwarpet, the groundwater table is around 15 feet deep. These neighbourhoods have mostly clayey soil to a depth of up to 8ft but below that is sandy soil.
 
 Even in predominantly clayey Valasaravakkam and Alwarthirunagar, with soil unfavourable for percolation, the groundwater went up from 15ft to 13ft.
 
 Raghavan, who has sunk tubewells across the city, says, “It could cost `20,000 to dig a 40-foot-deep tubewell with a potential to serve several households. But shallow aquifers are largely untapped.“
 
