KOCHI:   has identified severe anomalies in the upkeep of vehicles owned by  .

 As the corporation doesn't have any idea on the number of vehicles it owns, the auditors with local fund audit department collected the details of 68 vehicles after going through a log book maintained at the corporation office and asked the   to trace the vehicles. But the local body has failed to do so till date.
 
 As the Kochi corporation failed to respond to the repeated requests for providing the details of vehicles owned by it, the local fund audit department officials searched in the website of   (MVD). They found that the local body owns around 120 vehicles. Many of them have been abandoned on roadsides, auditors found.
 
 Now, the auditors, in their report for 2015-16, have asked the civic body to locate these vehicles that include trucks, compactors, cars, earthmovers and mini-pickup vans with the help of motor vehicles department (MVD). The audit department also found that the corporation suffered loss of money on account of fines as they failed to pay taxes on time. The audit report also calls for recovery of vehicles in case they have been alienated.
 
 According to councillor C K Peter, the corporation which hires private trucks for transporting waste to the solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram by spending around Rs 30 lakh a month, utilises less than half the number of vehicles owned by them. "The local body own, 44 mini-pickup vans. Of this, only 18 are being used. The rest remain abandoned," Peter said.
 
 "The corporation owns ten compact trucks, each of them costing around Rs 45 lakh. Of this only six are plying. The remaining ones are under repair since June last year. If the corporation authorities spend Rs 10,000 each for repairing these vehicles, the number of private trucks that need to be hired can be reduced by eight. Given the fact that rent for a truck a day is Rs 2,750, the savings would be a whopping Rs 22,000 per day. If ordinary trucks and mini-pickup vans, which remain abandoned also are used, the spending on hiring private trucks would fall significantly," he said.
 
 "The corporation has given the charge of upkeep of trucks and other vehicles to civil engineers. The authorities should have entrusted the job to mechanical engineers. How can civil engineers ensure the proper upkeep of the vehicles and their repair works time to time?" he asked.
 
 The corporation authorities also admits that they are unable to manage the vehicles owned by them. "There are 83 vehicles including JCBs, trucks, compact trucks and triwheelers under health department. Using our own vehicles causes huge maintenance bills for us. If the corporation hire private trucks for transporting waste rather than plying our own vehicles, it would be financially more viable for the local body," said V K Minimol, chairperson, standing committee for health. "Even if the old vehicles are traced and repaired, they may become defunct every now and then," she said. " Many of the trucks were purchased in 2008," Minimol said.
 
 She said that a report on vehicles maintained by health department and their present condition would be placed in the next meeting of the corporation council.
 
