CHENNAI: The strike by   entered a 15th day on Thursday and patients in   were feeling the heat: The authorities had to put on hold around 1,000 elective surgeries and   were delayed because of  

 Although patients could still consult government physicians in cases of emergency and for certain elective procedures like caesarean deliveries, doctors on Thursday postponed most procedures for conditions that could be temporarily treated with medication.
 
 Striking doctors’ associations said around 1,000 such procedures have been put on hold.
 
 “They will continue to pile up till the government listens to what we have to say and takes action,” Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) president Dr K Senthil said. TNGDA has 15,500 members.
 
 Some of the surgeries that doctors have deferred are hernia repair, tonsillectomy, procedures for hemorrhoids (piles), hydroceles (painless swelling in the genital area) and cataract operations.
 
 Elective surgeries usually peak in the summer, especially paediatric cases. “We perform at least 10 elective surgeries a day. But now we have asked patients expecting such surgeries to return next week,” an Institute of Child Health doctor said.
 
 The strike has most severely hit patients from other districts and states who travel to the city for medicare. S Kala, a daily wage worker from Nellore, had to wait overnight at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital to get a simple test for chronic cough. “By the time I got to see the doctor, it was too late for the test,” Kala, 52, said.
 
 Doctors associations have been holding protests across the state for the past two weeks against the quashing of in-service marks and 50% reservation of PG medical seats for government doctors.
 
 The government has appealed to the doctors not to let the stir affect the functioning of hospitals.
 
 The protests were triggered by a recent order of the Madurai Bench of the Madras high court that overruled the method followed by Tamil Nadu, calculating incentive marks for in-service doctors in remote or hilly areas during PG admissions in line with MCI prescriptions. On Wednesday, the Madras high court reached a split verdict on the case and placed it before a single judge.
 
 
 
 
