MUMBAI: A Shiv Sena-MNS ‘adjustment’ for the BMC election may well be in the offing, even if a formal poll alliance is not scripted by the two parties, it is said.

  Raj flagged off the   in March 2006 following succession battle within the clan.
 
 Sena-MNS strategists are keen on exploring possibilities of a poll adjustment for the key Mumbai civic polls, following the Sena’s unilateral decision to snap poll ties with the BJP. Sena chief   on Thursday announced that his party would not have the BJP as its ally for the  .
 
 Speculation was rife on Friday that Matoshree was ready to begin informal talks with the MNS leading to an adjustment formula over key civic wards to avoid a split in Marathi votes. For instance, the MNS may not put up its nominees in wards where Sena is on a strong footing, and is firmly set to take on the BJP, it is learnt.
 
 Similarly, the Sena may field ‘weak’ candidates in wards where the MNS has dug deep organizational roots. “Such wards can be identified and lists can be exchanged between the two parties,” said a Sena functionary.
 
 The Sena-MNS informal talks may begin next week. February 3 is the last date for filing nomination papers for the BMC election. A section in the Sena is of the view that the MNS can help the Sena by contesting a limited number of wards in the city.
 
 Refraining from mud-slinging and avoiding mutual acrimony will be the crucial component of the adjustment formula. Political experts say Matoshree may politically profit on two counts by wooing the MNS for the civic polls. First, it would pre-empt BJP’s attempts to befriend the MNS. Second, the Sena-MNS combined front would help the cause of Marathi ‘manoos’ and, more importantly, alter the political equations in city politics.
 
 Raj Thackeray’s recent criticism of Narendra Modi, especially on the PM's demonetisation drive, has helped bring about a thaw in the Thackeray parivaar. On the other hand, there were reports that a section of the city BJP is eager to offer an olive branch to the MNS, only to spite the Sena. “Even if we were to ink a poll pact with the Sena, Shiv Sainiks would anyway have cast their vote, in many wards where the Sena was not to contest, to MNS candidates in the larger Marathi ‘maanoos’ cause. Now that we don’t have an alliance with the Sena, we can back the MNS in some wards which are not our strongholds,” said a BJP worker.
 
