PANAJI: The   (RP), which was aimed at creating a more vibrant and economically prosperous Goa by protecting its  , turned into a hurdle for the government instead, as it brought in a host of super laws to bypass existing rules.

  allege that the government introduced amendments to Section 16/16A of the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Act, 1974 in 2008 and the even more draconian Goa Investment Promotion Act, 2014 to circumvent RP 2021. 
 
 Projects initiated and proposed with the support of these overriding laws, highlight the government’s insensitivity to environment and participatory planning. Activities say the super laws pose a serious threat to the integrity of RP 2021 and the state’s natural heritage.
 
 “The government believes the RP is for the people and not for itself. This has always been its approach to bring in projects that are a burden to the Goan public,” says Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation, a Mapusa-based environmental NGO.
 
 The TCP amendments carried out during the preparation of RP 2021 were aimed at keeping government projects out of the plan’s purview. Activists protested controversial changes to the Act, alleging that these could be misused for government projects under the garb of public interest, but contrary to RP objectives.
 
 After the amendment, the government unveiled a series of projects in tourism, infrastructure and other sectors that evoked criticism as they were allegedly harmful to the environment and a threat to livelihood of traditional communities such as fishermen.
 
 The enactment of the Investment Promotion Act 2014, to create a single-window system for approving projects in eco-fragile zones and within the coastal regulation zone (CRZ), was even more draconian and contradictory to the RP’s objectives, activists allege. 
 
 “When the RP became a hurdle, they set up Investment Promotion Board. Certain politicians who are in charge of planning and development authorities (PDAs) passed outline development plans (ODPs) to bypass the RP, but it is actually to bring new areas under control,” Alvares alleges.
 
 Most of the projects have ignited controversy for their environmental and social implications, such as Chapora project, Siolim jetty, IT park at Chimbel and IIT project at Loliem. Both, state and central government agencies, have drawn flak from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for not carrying out the mandatory environment impact assessments (EIA) or fulfilling other requirements. The Tiracol and Mandovi bridges, capital dredging in Mormugao harbour, widening of National Highway 17 at Margao-Nuvem, and the beautification of Baina beach are some of the controversial projects.
 
 “With Investment Promotion Act overriding existing rules and the RP 2021, the whole exercise and purpose of preparing an RP by Goa’s villages have been wasted and defeated,” John Philip Pereira, a Nagoa-Verna-based activist says.
 
 Activists are placing their hopes in the court battles against IPB projects. 
 
 “The whole system is conflicting. The RP has to maintain a certain zoning, but projects like the one in Vanxim are proposed in settlement areas, mangrove swamps and eco-fragile zones,” Pereira alleges.
 
