CHANDIGARH: Fraudsters have allegedly duped a city-based businessman of Rs 1.22 crore on the pretext of selling him a metal “device having magical properties” of drawing rice grains, prompting the police to register a case against six persons.

 Prem   Rana, a resident of Sector 8, named A R  , Udit Nagar, Raja, Arif Choudhary, Ashwani Kumar Palia and Ramesh in his FIR.
 
 In his complaint, Rana alleged one Sarabjit Singh came in his contact in July. Sarabjit told him that he knew certain people who could help him buy an antique “rice puller” in  , Himachal Pradesh, believed to have powers which could bring wealth and prosperity. Later, Rana was introduced to Palia.
 
 Rana then met Chaudhary, who introduced Rahman and Nagar as chief executive officer and operations head of UK company called   in India to him. They both allegedly showed him the website of the company that stated its address at 601 International House, 223 Regent Street, London.
 
 The accused told Rana to arrange for Rs 10 crore to be paid to the seller after testing the material. He deposited Rs 7 lakh. On June 29, Rana along with Nagar and his team reached Dharamshala. But after a while, the accused told Rana that they would have to come another time.
 
 Rana then paid Rs 5 lakh to the accused for bringing the device to a jungle. For the next visit, the company again allegedly took Rs 5 lakh from him. They again went to Dharamshala for testing but the accused refused to carry it out, saying the presence of mobile towers nearby could cause a blast. Later, the accused tested a rod and told Rana that the device needed to be buried 6 feet to 7 feet underground to let the rod cool down. After that the company would repack it in their own kit, Rana was told and made to pay more money. In all, Rana gave Rs 1.22 crore, excluding the expenditure of hotel and other expenses of around Rs 15 lakh.
 
 One of the accused then told him that his uncle had died and he was going back to his village. Since then, he never came back and his mobile phone too wad found switched off. It was then Rana realised he had been duped.
 
