NEW DELHI: Lesser-known institutions like   and   stood out in the HRD ministry’s ranking of ‘top 10’ colleges. They have fared exceptionally well in teaching, learning and resources (TLR) index despite a below average peer or public perception score. 

 For instance,  , which had a peer perception score of 17%, has earned the highest TLR at 87%. The average perception score of the 10 colleges is 36.05%. Miranda House, the top-most college according to the ministry ranking, has been awarded a TLR of 75%. On the fifth position,   has been awarded a TLR of 74% despite a perception score of 0.21%.
 
 The staff and the administrations of these institutions deem the rankings justified. According to the principals of Dyal Singh and ARSD colleges, their   curriculum motivates the students of arts and sciences to apply for higher studies. 
 
 “We have state-of-the-art infrastructure and adopted a research and innovation-oriented study mechanism, which motivates undergraduates to take up further studies and research in their respective field,” said Gyantosh K Jha, principal, ARSD College. 
 
 Dyal Singh College principal Inderjeet Singh Bakshi gives credit to the faculty for giving more importance to research, which helped them secure the highest percentage of TLR. He highlighted that the high cut-off percentage of the college has ensured that the college gets the best quality of students from across the country. Both the colleges have been given grants by   to carry out research programmes. 
 
 “ARSD has received nearly Rs 2 crore under the ‘STAR innovation research project’ funded by Delhi University. The college also runs a technology-business incubator on its campus,” said Rajeev Singh, a chemistry teacher at ARSD, which has secured the fifth rank in the top-10 list. “More than 200 students have benefited from the university grants and each project costs anywhere between Rs 10 and Rs 40 lakh.” 
 
 Science faculty members from both the colleges said nearly 50% of their undergraduate class choose to undertake research work in the future or appear in competitive exams. What’s more, the two colleges have secured a high score of ‘outreach and inclusivity’ (OI). The faculty of ARSD proudly defends the score since it is the only college to host an annual Northeast cultural festival—Rainbow Fest.
 
 Sakshi Jain, a third-year BCom student at Dyal Singh College, refutes claims of lack of discipline on the campus, saying that such perceptions exist only because a section of students indulges in hooliganism during election season. “Our college union has ensured peace on the campus. We have got a diverse mix of students from across the country, which fosters an atmosphere of inclusiveness,” said Jain.
 
