JAIPUR: The state government on Friday admitted that it has found many violations by  , Jaipur, of the terms and conditions of   made to it on concessional rates. Urban development minister   told the state assembly that notices have been served to the hospital and soon further action would be taken.

 Deputy leader of Opposition Ramesh Meena raised the issue during Zero Hour and alleged that the hospital was not providing free treatment to poor patients but was still claiming compensation from the state government. Meena said the hospital made illegal constructions too on the allotted land.
 
 Health minister Kali Charan Saraf said a committee was constituted to examine violations by the cancer hospital. “The committee found that land allotments terms were violated and submitted its report. We have forwarded that report to UDH department for further action,” Saraf said. The UDH minister accepted that his department has received the report and it talks of violations by the hospital.
 
 Chandrakanta Meghwal being ‘threatened’: There was uproar in the house during Zero Hour when BJP MLA Ramhet Singh Yadav demanded action against SHO of Thana-Gazi for arresting a   office-bearer recently. As Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra and NPP MLA Kirori Lal Meena intervened, there were heated arguments between the ruling party and the opposition members. Speaker   got Dotasra and Meena’s remarks expunged and did not allow the leader of opposition also to intervene.
 
 Outside the house, Meena addressed reporters and accused parliamentary affairs minister   of threatening and preventing   from attending the assembly. “I wanted to tell how a Dalit MLA was being prevented from coming to assembly but the speaker did not allow me,” Meena said. He added, “Similarly, some rouges forced Dalits from a village in Sawai Madhopur to flee few days back. Atrocities against Dalits are continuing in Rajasthan, which has already been placed at the top as per the NCRB report.”
 
 Home minister Gulab Chand Kataria refuted Meena’s charge. “A Gurjar girl had left her home and initially there was fear among Bairwa community but enough police force was deployed to ensure their safety. The girl was later found in Kota and was handed over to her parents as per her wish,” Kataria said, adding that Dalits of the village did not flee.
 
 Minister Rathore too refuted Meena’s charge that the BJP MLA, who courted controversy after husband was accused of slapping a police-officer last month, was being prevented from attending the assembly.
 
 
