CHENNAI: The   expressing displeasure over   has put the   in a spot. Against the backdrop of month-long protests by delta farmers at Jantar Mantar in  , demanding loan waiver from nationalized banks and constitution of Cauvery Management Board, the apex court on Thursday observed it was “shocked and alarmed” at the state’s silence on the suicide issue. 

 The farmer leaders dispute the state’s claim of just 17 suicides during last year and allege large-scale anomalies in government records. The state government officials, however, claim “proactive” steps were taken to hand-hold farmers through the water crisis. They insist that a slew of programmes were implemented such as kuruvai/samba package, loan waiver for small and marginal farmers by cooperative institutions, increase in number of working days under MGNREGA and record coverage of 15.32 lakh farmers under crop insurance. “The CM’s public relief fund of Rs 3 lakh was extended to more than 70 bereaved families of farmers who had a natural death last year,” said a senior official.
 
 The SC on Thursday directed the state to file a detailed reply on the farmers’ suicide in two weeks. “The number of suicides is much higher but the state is in denial mode. Even the drought relief of Rs 2,247 crore extended by the state through electronic clearance system did not cover all farmers. There has been no relief to thousands of farm labourers, who are left jobless and starve due to drought. The crisis is severe,” CPM-affiliated TN Farmers Association president K Balakrishnan said. Direct sowing of seeds has not been undertaken due to delayed rain. Traditional transplantation process too was hit in districts like Nagapattinam.
 
 The protesting members of National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Association led by P Ayyakannu camping in Jantar Mantar continue to make headlines. “Collection agents of the banks threaten and abuse farmers for default of loan payment, forcing them to end lives,” Ayyakkannu said. Agriculture scientist M S Swaminthan emphasized the need to implement the minimum support price for crops, rather than loan waivers, to resolve the agrarian distress. He said pricing and procurement based on the total cost of production plus 50% principle will help farmers meet the challenges.
 
 “The Supreme Court is aware of the farmers’ plight in the state,” said Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association general secretary S Ranganathan, pointing to its repeated orders to Karnataka to release 2,000 cusecs daily to TN. Balakrishnan said the government should immediately convene a meeting of all parties to discuss the Centre’s move in introducing a bill to pave way for setting up a single tribunal to resolve inter-state disputes. 
 
 
