JAIPUR: Infamous for child marriages, Rajasthan has become the first state to launch a strategic action plan for prevention of child marriages.

 The plan is aimed at changing patriarchal mindsets, improving legal and policy environment, increasing access to safe and quality education, greater access to quality health services, building avenues for economic development and livelihoods, empowering adolescent girls and boys with life skills and strengthening the data management system to track child marriages. 
 
 Besides, the department of women and child development along with district administration will develop district-specific action plans based on the intensity of prevalence of child marriages (high, medium or low).
 
 According to the action plan report, it is a common practice to get children married on auspicious days such as Akshay Tritiya/Akha Teej and  , and even during Mrityubhoj/Mausar (death feast organised when a family member dies) as a cost saving measure. The practice of atta-satta (exchange of brides) is also common in the state.
 
 “Evidence from several research studies clearly indicates that not only is   a gross violation of human rights, but it also tends to impact most aspects of human life. Early child and forced marriages curtail freedom of choice, opportunities and agency, besides reinforcing existing structural inequalities related to age, gender, class, caste, religion, sexuality and political economy,” the report says.
 
 To launch the State Strategy and Action Plan for Prevention of Child Marriage, a function was organized by the department of women and child development in partnership with UNFPA and   in Jaipur on Sunday. Diego Palacios, country representative, UNFPA India & Bhutan, said, “The percentage of women who were married before 18 years in the state has come down by nearly half over the last 10 years.”
 
 He said, “A lot more still remains to be achieved. Even today, many girls start but do not finish school; many girls are married before they are equipped to make their own decisions; many women, both married and unmarried, are vulnerable to gender-based violence; and many women still suffer and die from complications of pregnancy and childbirth.”
 
 Child marriages restrict the normal transition of a child through his/her adolescence period, increases vulnerability to ill health, discrimination towards education and social opportunities, and exposure to all kinds of violence.
 
 The strategic action plan pointed out that evidence from across the globe shows that child marriages are a strong contributing factor for maternal and infant mortality. Child marriage limits the agency of an individual to make informed choices, thereby restricting the person’s access to information, avenues for skill building, and pursuit of aspirations.
 
 Girls discontinuing education on account of marriage has long-term consequences. Available data suggests that the prevalence of domestic violence is higher among those who are married at an early age. At the macro level, child marriage contributes to maintaining the intergenerational cycle of poverty, further marginalising women.
 
 Rajasthan has been and continues to be a high prevalence state for child marriages in India; the prevalence being much higher than the national average. Widely accepted, child marriages are a part of the societal fabric, the report says.
 
 On the occasion,  , women and child development minister, stressed on the need of education for girls and informed about different schemes implemented by the government for the holistic development of the girl child in the state including Rajshree Yojana.
 
 
 
 —Change community norms, patriarchal mindsets and societal beliefs
 
 —Design district-specific strategies 
 
 —Improve legal and policy environment to prevent child marriages
 
 —Increased access to safe and quality education
 
 —Greater access to quality health, service
 
