Ghaziabad: The   (EPE) may miss its March 12, 2018 deadline owing to the agitation of   of 16   villages, from whom 344 hectares of land was acquired for the 24.5km stretch of the highway. Construction work here is moving at a snail’s pace, as the farmers are demanding higher compensation.

  In order to end the logjam, district magistrate Ministhy S has formed a committee to look into their grievances.
 
 “In view of the agitations by farmers from Ghaziabad, a committee of officials from the administration has been formed, who will hold talks with the agitated farmers to allow work to proceed unhindered on EPE,” said Ministhy S.
 
  “Recently, I briefed the NHAI chairman of the situation. He has agreed in principle to look into the demands of farmers,” she added.
 
 According to D P Srivastava, ADM (land acquisition), “Of the 344 hectares needed in Ghaziabad, more than 90% has been acquired, for which Rs 767 crore was disbursed among farmers as compensation. Yet, a section of farmers are unhappy and are demanding higher compensation. Another major demand is for a service lane on both sides of the 24.5km stretch.”
 
 The farmers protest has been holding up work on and off since December last year. The project had hit several roadblocks in the past too.
 
 At that time, NHAI officials had stated compensation issues had been largely addressed with the farmers receiving enhanced compensation. “Regarding service lanes on both sides of the expressway, it is a difficult demand to accept, as it will require altering the original plan, as we have limited land for the purpose,” said A K Jain, project director, Eastern Peripheral Expressway, NHAI. “Work on the expressway has been divided into five stretches, across Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Progress on all sections but Ghaziabad is satisfactory,” said Jain. “The deadline for the completion of the work is March 12, 2018 but at the pace we are going, we might miss the deadline,” he added.
 
 Earlier this week, the Supreme Court had asked the Ghaziabad SSP to ensure adequate security at the site so that work goes on unhindered. “We informed the apex court that work on the stretch has resumed, that we will provide security at the site, and will ensure work is not stopped,” H N Singh, SSP, Ghaziabad said.
 
 Meanwhile, in Noida’s Gautam Budh Nagar, stalled work on a portion of the 13-km stretch of the expressway will soon resume. With the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways approving Section 3D of the National Highway Land Acquisition Act on Tuesday, nearly 3.5km of land will soon be acquired by NHAI. To take stock of the situation, district magistrate B N Singh and   SSP Love Kumar inspected the project on Wednesday to get a first-hand assessment and ensure work is carried forward smoothly.
 
 
