Nagpur: The migration of city shuttlers to Hyderabad, Bangalore or Mumbai for advanced training at reputed academies will be a thing of the past if the Maharashtra Badminton Association’s plans of setting up a world-class residential badminton academy gets state clearance. It wants to set it up at the Divisional Sports Complex in Mankapur by the end of the year. MBA president Arun Lakhani said the association has presented a detailed proposal to the state government and has got an encouraging response. “The MBA will maintain the indoor hall completely. We have also requested that the existing hostel facility be given to us,” he told TOI after the inauguration of the State Junior Badminton Championship here on Monday. To make the academy financially viable, the MBA wants to develop a commercial facility at the complex itself. “We also want the government to allot the adjoining land to MBA where business units can be set up and the income generated from it can be utilized to maintain the stadium,” added Lakhani who took over the MBA reigns in 2015. Meetings with Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and sports minister Vinod Tawde were recently held in Mumbai to discuss the issue and “we got positive response”. “I am confident that within a couple of months we will get to hear concrete developments on it,” said Lakhani who has been wanting to set up an academy since he became MBA president.  “Mankapur looks the best option as it has ten wooden courts and other necessary facilities too,” he said.  Once the MBA opens its academy in the Orange City, it plans to rope in the best foreign and Indian coaches. “If everything goes well according to a plan, several quality players will emerge in the next couple of years. Even though he is passionate and committed, the fact is without solid infrastructure even Gopichand would have found it difficult to produce champions,” said Lakhani. Lakhani also said that stadium will remain available for other sports. “But, since, badminton is a revenue-generated game, it will help to maintain the stadium without any financial problems,” he said. The MBA is hoping that the CM will make a formal announcement during the Senior National Badminton Championship to be held in Nagpur for the first time at Mankapur from November 1 to 7. The MBA is determined to complete the necessary paper work before that.