Gujarat   is keen to welcome back  , after obvious nod from Prime Minister  , but the party is in a dilemma over how to accommodate him. Vaghela will turn 77 in July and as per the BJP mandate any leader over 75 cannot fight election or hold an influential position. In case of Vaghela, he happens to be senior to even PM Modi and the entire state BJP cadre. BJP in dilemma Despite his   (home coming) very much in sight, the BJP is struggling to find a suitable position for Vaghela in Gujarat that befits his seniority, stature and experience.

 A senior BJP leader said he’s most likely to be accommodated by being given chairmanship of an important central PSU or board while his son Mahendrasinh Vaghela may get a Cabinet berth in Gujarat government. This can be a win-win for both BJP and Vaghela. Vaghela’s wapsi can also deal a severe blow to Congress which currently has 57 MLAs in the Assembly. Out of these, 36 MLAs recently clamoured for announcement of Shankersinh’s name as CM candidate of Gujarat. BJP cannot accommodate all the Vaghela supporters but those with influence can be absorbed.
 
 Vaghela started his political career with Jana Sangh that later took form of Janata Party. After Janata Party split into splinter groups, Vaghela became a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He played a vital role in bringing BJP to power in Gujarat in 1995, along with Narendra Modi who was then an RSS envoy to the state BJP. splinter groups, Vaghela became a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He played a vital role in bringing BJP to power in Gujarat in 1995, along with Narendra Modi who was then an RSS envoy to the state BJP.
 
  was made the chief minister though Vaghela had staked claim over the position. Vaghela then revolted against the BJP and formed a new party — Rashtriya Janata Party. He became the CM in 1996 and continued till 1997 only to merge with Congress, later on. At present, he’s the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. What’s in it for Vaghela? A source said Vaghela was not given absolute power, as he had sought, to strategise Congress’comeback to power in state after almost 22 years. Now that he has been denied it, he sees slim chance for the main Opposition party.
 
 “Vaghela wanted to play last bet of his life and sought freehand, like Amarinder Singh in the recent Punjab polls, but the high command wasn’t convinced and feared possibility of split in the state unit if they acceded to Vaghela’s demand,” said a Congress leader. Vaghela then decided to part ways with the Congress along with over two dozen confidants, the leader said, adding Vaghela is aware that former Congress leader Narhari Amin, who’s now with the BJP, is yet to get any prominent position or role to play. An RSS leader privy to the matter said: “Bapu is not as powerful as he used to be two decades ago but the core issue is his accommodation.
 
 BJP is not keen to give him ticket in the first place because later it may have to face the issue of giving him a suitable portfolio after the government formation, an awkward situation for both the BJP and Vaghela.” Ball already in motion BJP sources claimed, “Envoys of Bapu and Amit Shah met in New Delhi’s Hotel Ashoka and discussed former’s Ghar Wapsi. Only after this did Shah go and meet Bapu at latter’s Gujarat Assembly office a month ago.”
 
 BJP’s silence and measured reaction to the controversy — generated by Vaghela by ‘unfollowing’ Rahul Gandhi on Twitter — is testimonial to the fact that state leaders have been asked to maintain restraint while talking about Vaghela. Even Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani, who is a vociferous critic of the Congress, has preferred to remain tight-lipped. “I don’t want to comment over the issue (Bapu’s Ghar Wapsi or Twitter controversy). Dispute among leaders is the internal matter of Congress,” Vaghani told Mirror.
 
 
 
 
 
 1) He last held the post of textile minister in 2009 and has been out of power since then.
 2) Negotiating with BJP, he can get influential position in the party or the government. This way, he can rehabilitate his followers as well.
 3) His confidents don’t enjoy power in the Congress and it makes sense to walk over to the winning side.
 Disadvantage Bapu
 1) BJP has sent an aggressive target of getting 150+ seats in the forthcoming polls. If it succeeds, Bapu camp will not have any chance to get power.
 2) Vaghela will turn 77 soon. It is now or never situation for him. Post 2017, next elections will be held in 2022 — a long time in politics. He may not stay relevant till then.
 3) Bapu’s confidants are keen to join BJP. If Vaghela stays back, his position in Congress will weaken considerably.
 
 
 
 In September 1995, Vaghela rebelled against the BJP leadership with support of 47 MLAs. In the subsequent compromise formula worked out by the leadership, then CM Keshubhai Patel was replaced by Vaghela loyalist Suresh Mehta. Narendra Modi was sent to Delhi on Vaghela’s demand. Vaghela fought and lost Parliamentary election from Godhra constituency in May 1996 and soon left the BJP to form his own party — Rashtriya Janata Party. He became CM with Congress support in October 1996. He then won by-poll from Radhanpur Assembly seat in early 1997.
 
 However, he had to resign as CM due to political turmoil in October 1997. He paid back the BJP in same coin by orchestrating rise of BJP rebel MLA Dilip Parikh as CM. However, Parikh could not continue for long and fresh elections were announced in 1998. Vaghela was textile minister during UPA-1(2004-2009). He fought Assembly election in 2012 after losing general election (Panchmahal) in 2009.
 
 Earlier, he was two-time MP from Kapadvanj (later reconstituted as Panchmahal in 2009) in 1999 and 2004. He has also served as the President of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee. He contested 2014 Lok Sabha election from Sabarkantha constituency and lost to BJP candidate Dipsinh Shankarsinh Rathod. At present, he’s the leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly.
 
