Your morning commute has just got greener. If you have been disgusted at the number of used plastic bottles strewn about at Mumbai’s stations, you can do more than just feel put off. There’s a way that every Mumbaikar can now do his or her bit to correct the situation. A recent initiative of a ‘bottle recycling machine’ installed at the city’s key railway stations is dishing out a great incentive to go green. You get a coupon for every bottle you put into it. And judging by the response so far, city’s denizens seem to be motivated enough keep the space plastic litter-free this way…

 
 
 The machines were introduced as part of World Environment Day and is part of the initiatives of the Swachh Bharat Mission. They have been installed at stations like Churchgate, Dadar, Bandra, Santacruz, Andheri, Goregaon, Borivali and Mumbai Central (main line). Says   who conceptualised the design for the machine, “A second machine may soon be installed at Churchgate to share the load and we have plans to also have one at the busy   (CST) and 20 in all in the Central Line starting from CST to Dombivali and Panvel.”
 
 The way to operate it is simple. Each user has to insert the empty plastic bottle (cap on) into a small window slot. The conveyer inside the machine carries the bottle into a crusher where it is squeezed and compressed in less than 30 seconds. The machine then yields a discount coupon through a slot to the user. Discounts are offered to people to encourage repeated usage of the machine. On collecting five coupons, you get `200 discount that can be used at a supermarket. These recycled bottles are then reportedly supplied to fibre-manufacturing companies to be used for clothes made of recycled plastic, bags and carpets. “As per a new offer, we plan to include discounts in food retail outlets like pizza and burger joints, too,” informs Kkarrande.
 
 
 
 It’s just been over a few weeks that the bottle recycling machine is at Churchgate station and so far the response has been great, affirms machine operator Umesh Solanki who demonstrates how it works to people through the day. “Earlier, commuters used to stop and ask how it worked and many people just passed it by. But now, there’s actually queue for it during the morning and moreover in the evening, when people are on the way home.” He says it has altered the station’s cleanliness quite a bit. “The trash cans used be overflowing with used aerated beverage and water bottles and so were the tracks. Now, they do take a few minutes to stop here and recycle,” he adds.
 
 Neha Wasti, resident of Lower Parel and a first-year arts student at a college in South Mumbai, makes sure she does her bit, regularly. “I love this idea and wish we had done this sooner. In fact, why not have these machines even outside all the colleges?” Other commuters share the same thought. Marketing executive Jai Sharma who works close by feels it will go a long way to cut down the hazards of plastic pollution. “We all know how dangerous plastic debris is to environment as it can take years to decompose and this initiative creates more awareness towards it. Plus, what is also scary is how so often these used water bottles are tampered with — the seal is re-fixed added and it gets reused. This will ensure that doesn't happen,” he says.
 
 For another office-goer  , the fun lies also in collecting more coupons. “It’s great that I can get coupons for the recycling. So far, my target is to get at least five coupons each day and I want still more. I give the coupons I get to my family and friends,” he grins.
 
