Chennai: A loud siren blares though  , It’s a   to pack up and scoot, as a traffic beat patrol car makes its way toward them.

 Two months after the latest of numerous court orders and a corporation and   on the road to make way a pedestrian-friendly pilot project, the pavements are wide and free and there is orderly parking. But a tussle continues between   and officials in the no- hawking zone.
 
 “It is relaxing to walk here at our own pace without worrying about people shoving us around and what we may drop in the crowd,” says Nirmala K, an event planner who shops here.
 
 After years of evictions and court battles, one of the busiest arterial roads in the city is finally pedestrian-friendly. The challenge for the authorities now is to maintain status quo.
 
 Even during a scorching midday on Wednesday, there was no dearth of activity in the business hub, where a fire had just broken out on one of the narrow streets off the main road. Flower Bazaar policemen were moving people and the traffic police pulling up parking violators; corporation officials were simultaneously raiding a 700m stretch between Flower Bazaar police station and Parry’s Corner.
 
 If a vendor doesn’t move his stall after a warning, a corporation vehicle tows it away. Heated arguments between vendors and officials over pavement space have now given way a daily game of hide and seek.
 
 The civic body provided many of the pavement dwellers housing in Ennore. But most homeless vendors have lived on the pavements for generations and are back on the narrow interior streets off NSC Bose Road.
 
 B Malathi awakes at 4 am every day, buys fruits from the Koyambedu wholesale market and comes back to sit on a nook between the new wide pavement and a narrow street to sell them with some help from her mother and grandmother.
 
 “We were born here and continue to sleep here. Our children go to a school nearby.” Our life is dependent on this place,” Malathi says. “We did not receive alternate housing. Some who did have also returned to earn a livelihood.”
 
 Corporation officials say most of the hawkers have gone. “We don’t see 90% of the vendors any longer,” a corporation employee said.
 
 The initial design by   and Development Policy included a space for hawkers but the Madras high court asked the corporation and police to make the stretch a no-hawking zone in accordance with a Supreme Court order. The encroachment drive was supported by shopkeepers who found the hawkers a menace.
 
 The project, however, could be a game-changer in street design, say urban planners, who note that widening pavements and eating into carriageway space will not cause more traffic congestion if they maintain exclusive lanes.
 
 “Proper police enforcement to remove all parking encroachments has improved comfort and safety of pedestrians,” says Chennai program coordinator for ITDP, Advait Jani. “We must charge for parking and reduce demand. That will help.”
 
