PUNE: For the Bhosale family, keeping tryst with the civic elections has been de rigueur, a practice honed for nearly 100 years. Keeping with tradition, Reshma Bhosale, who contested the Pune municipal elections as an independent candidate, didn’t disappoint. Her victory on Thursday marks an important milestone for the  , who are just two years short of a century of having representation by family members in the  .

 Hailing from the Wakdewadi and Bhosalenagar areas in Shivajinagar, members of the Bhosale family have been elected to the civic body for almost 10 decades. Reshma (45) will start her second term in the civic body as a corporator. Her husband, Anil, presently a member of the state legislative council, was a corporator for almost 20 years. 
 
 The journey of the Bhosales started in 1919 when Vishnupant Kushaba Bhosale, Anil’s great grandfather, got elected as a member of the then Poona suburban area. He was an active member of the body for almost two decades during which he became the vice-president of the civic body in 1929 and president subsequently.
 
 The legacy was carried forward by his son, Jagannath Bhosale, who was a member of the then municipal council and the municipal corporation till 1968. During his tenure, he was elected chairman of the civic body’s standing committee and chairman of the public transport body, currently known as the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML).
 
 Jagannath’s son Shivajirao, Anil’s father, won the Pune Municipal Corporation election in 1968 and was active till 1992. In 1976, he was elected mayor of Pune. He was also elected as member of the state legislative council in 1997.
 
 According to Reshma, the family’s run in the civic body is a testament to its long service to society. “My husband and I are active in the city and at the state level. We will continue our   with city residents who have given us a chance to serve them for such a long period,” she said.
 
 The family also made its mark in the cooperative bank sector. The   was established by Anil’s father in March 1972.
 
 While filing her nomination for the civic polls, Reshma had declared assets of Rs 64.30 crore, which includes immovable property worth Rs 43.07 crore and non-agricultural land and commercial buildings.
 
 
