In the latest episode of  , Saanjh's mother Suman is mourning the loss of her close friend and Arjun's mother Vandana thinking how one person Maya destroyed everyone's life.
 
  Saanjh comes to know from her lawyers that the court has not given permission to Arjun to attend his mother’s funeral. Arjun is thinking of his mother and performs her last rites in the jail itself. Saanjh remembers her father and asks Ayaan to perform the last rites of his mother along with her.
  
  Arjun is taken for interrogation by a new inspector in charge Ranvir Singh. But as he is about to interrogate Arjun, Saanjh walks in and reminds the inspector that since Arjun is her client he cannot ask any questions to Arjun in her absence.
  
  
 
  
  Ranvir asks her to sit next to Arjun as he begins with his interrogation. He first shows a handwritten letter by Maya as the first evidence against Arjun. In the letter Maya wrote how scared she was of Arjun and had left it unfinished.
  
  Saanjh says but nowhere in the letter has Maya written that Arjun would kill her.
  
  Ranvir asks Arjun the reason for getting Maya admitted to a mental asylum when she was pregnant but Saanjh corrects him by saying that it was Maya's decision to go to the asylum and seek medical help. But Ranvir shows her the proof that it was Arjun who had admitted her to the asylum.
  
  Next is the statement made by a girl named Shruti who was Maya's neighbour who had accused Arjun of torturing Maya.
  
  Shruti in her statement had said that Maya would be beaten by Arjun in an inebriated state and she had often seen Maya outside her own house. Plus Maya kept waiting for Arjun in mental asylum but he never came. She further says that Maya had shown a picture of Saanjh and Arjun saying that these two loved each other and that they wanted to take over her property and money.
  
  Arjun gets angry and tells the inspector that he has never beaten Maya and that he loved her. He never went to meet her in the asylum since she never wanted him to come.
  
  The inspector asks Arjun if he was aware of any insurance policy of his wife Maya he says it would be in lakhs but it is revealed that it was worth Rs 150 crore and that it was also made by Arjun. But Arjun days he doesn't remember making any such policy of his wife. He tells him that Maya made him sign a few
  papers for their unborn child’s insurance.
  
  Inspector also reveals that they found two air tickets in Arjun's bag, one was his and other one was for Saanjh. This leaves both Arjun and Saanjh shocked and they refuse to have bought tickets. Ranvir says nobody can save Arjun now. Arjun wondershow much Maya had planned for as she knew one day he would leave her.
