GREATER NOIDA: A portion of the ceiling of a flat on the 12th floor of a tower in   Eco village 1 fell on the tenant staying in the house on Sunday morning.

 As the plaster of the ceiling came down upon the tenant when he was sleeping, it caused minor bruises to him.
 
 According to the owner of the flat, Mohit Mishra, he occupied it in October last year while its registry was done in November 2017.
 
 "The tenant has been staying in the house for the past seven months. At 6:00 am on Sunday morning, the tenant was sleeping inside the bedroom of the one BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) set when an almost three-foot long piece of plaster fell off from the ceiling, leaving him with minor scratches on his arms. He escaped any major injury as he had covered himself with a blanket," Mishra said.
 
 The 32-year old tenant who belongs to Agra stays with his wife and child in the house but the latter had gone to their native town.
 
 “When I informed my owner around 6:15 am, a team of police arrived at the spot shortly and other residents too rushed in. Some informed that a similar case has happened last year in Supertech Capetown too," said the tenant who requested anonymity.
 
 A police team arrived at the spot soon after the incident occurred around 6 am and the owner has decided to lodge a complaint against the builder.
 
 On April 23 last year, a three-month-old baby had escaped with minor injuries when a portion of the ceiling had fallen on the bed where he was sleeping in a 19th floor apartment in   in Noida's Sector 74 on Saturday.
 
 "The   should also check how the builder was given completion certificate when the quality of the flat is so poor,” Mishra said.
 
 The Noida Extension Flat Owners and Members Association (NEFOMA) has demanded that the Yogi Adityanath government should get the construction quality of all the flats checked and register an FIR against the faulty builders.
 “First the builders trouble the buyers for the possession for years and if that happens, these type of incidents happen within months. The government should get the quality of all the flats checked and lodge an FIR against those playing with the lives of the buyers,” said Anu Khan, president, NEFOMA.
 
 Bisrakh SHO Vinod Pandey told TOI that he has not received any written complaint so far and the owner should immediately give a complaint as the matter pertains to negligence.
 
 Sanjay Joshi, assistant general manager, Supertech said that he had offered the owner to reconstruct the portion from which plaster came off but the owner called the media instead. “There might have been pressure on the building as some persons stay on the flat above too. The plaster has not fallen but has come out. There has been no other issue in the 1200 flats delivered so far,” he said.
 
