Kolkata: With the KMC dragging its feet on serving notice to owners of dilapidated buildings located along  , KMRC officials are keeping their fingers crossed. 

 The authorities have reasons to worry as the Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) for east-bound tunnel, at present working under Hooghly river, will reach the Kolkata side in a fortnight. Once the TBM reaches Kolkata side, tunnelling will be done along Brabourne Road to reach the proposed Mahakaran station. 
 
 But the KMRC or construction firm Afcons have little time left for ensuring necessary repair work is done for 25 buildings along the Metro route before tunnelling work on this stretch begins. Of these buildings, condition of nine is vulnerable and the KMRC wants the KMC to ensure evacuation of the inhabitants of these dilapidated buildings before beginning of tunneling work. 
 
 The KMRC authorities took up the matter with the KMC top brass a fortnight ago. But a ‘lukewarm’ response from the civic body sent shockwaves to the KMRC. Then it wrote two letters seeking help from the state and civic administrations. The first letter addressed to KMC commissioner Khalil Ahmed pointed out the urgent need for serving notice on owners of 16 buildings for undertaking repairwork. Civic body’s help was also sought from Ahmed in evacuating inhabitants of nine buildings which are structurally ‘very poor’. The second letter was sent to Alapan Bandyopadhyay, seeking his help in ensuring safety for the inhabitants of the buildings and smooth tunnelling work for the Mahakaran-bound Metro work. 
 
 The occupants are at a loss, too. Some of them have sought “political help”, some are contemplating moving court, yet others have refused to budge “unless adequately compensated”. TOI visited addresses like 42 Strand Road, 2, 4 and 8 Woodmunt Street along which the twin   tunnels will pass. “The buildings are a cause for concern for the project because of their condition,” said Virendra Kaul, project manager, Afcons. 
 
 The KMRC is more worried about the nine Brabourne Road buildings. “They (KMC) just have to issue the evacuation notices, and railways will do the needful. KMC will have to cooperate if it wants the Metro,” a project official said.
 
 But the civic body, not used to working under such stiff deadlines, is helpless. “KMRC had known the route all along. How can they take a decision overnight and ask us to evacuate nine buildings. We will need to survey the buildings, find out how many people live there, and take the occupants into confidence before issuing evacuation notices,” a building department official said.
 
 “We need to know that exact number of residents before issuing such notices. A detailed survey must be done. We must sit and discuss the matter with the residents, or there’ll be law and order issues,” KMC’s director-general (buildings) Anindya Karforma said.
 
 
