KOLKATA: Cops interrogated actor   for several hours on Saturday — the second day of his   — to ascertain the missing “links” in his version of events that transpired in the early hours of April 29 that eventually led to the car crash in which model   was killed.

 Police said Vikram was confronted with both technical evidence and statements recorded from various witnesses, and asked to explain the discrepancies between them and his statements.
 
 Top sources in south division said the main focus of questioning remained on whether Vikram had consumed alcohol that night. “We want to establish two things to build our case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder charge. One is that he was over-speeding. The EDR (Event Data Recorder) clearly establishes that he was driving at 105km/hr seconds before the crash. Vikram had denied he was drunk when he questioned initially. He had said so at a press conference as well. But when questioned thereafter on May 10 and 11, he had admitted to consuming alcohol but denied that he was drunk. Even now, he has already changed his statement thrice on whether he visited a certain pub located at Shakespeare Sarani and consumed alcohol despite us showing him statements from witnesses who claimed the contrary,” said an officer.
 
 The interrogators said Vikram was also asked to explain why he decided to suddenly change his mobile phone number while on bail and whether he had decided to apply for Canadian visa. The police said he had remained holed up in New Town for most of the past 40 days while being active on social media. They suspect he even travelled to Puri once.
 
 Vikram’s lawyers, though, questioned the police allegations and pointed out that none of these points had been made public earlier. “He was picked up within 24 hours of the Calcutta high court fixing a date for his anticipatory bail plea. My client never skipped any notice served on him. He was always present in the city and the police were always in touch with him and his family members. So where is the question of him absconding?” asked Anirban Guha Thakurta, one of his lawyers.
 
 In the lock-up, sources said, Vikram appeared more at ease on Saturday. He was allotted a separate cell and had tea, biscuits and meals from the canteen. Vikram also requested for a fresh set of clothes, sources said.
 
 
