NEW DELHI/PANAJI: The ruling   in Goa has decided to go to polls without a CM candidate even as it announced names for 29 seats, including 17 sitting MLAs, on Thursday.

 CM   figures in the list released following the party’s central election committee (CEC) meeting on Wednesday.
 
 Union minister and BJP in-charge of Goa elections  , however, hinted on Thursday that defence minister   could be the next CM if party MLAs decide so after the polls. “A leader in Delhi could be made the CM of Goa if the party MLAs decide,” said Gadkari at a press conference.
 
 A source in BJP indicated that Parrikar could return to state politics and the central leadership favoured such a move. The source said the matter had been discussed by national BJP president   with PM Modi. “Our newly elected MLAs will elect a new leader and it’s not necessary that this leader should be from the MLAs itself. We could send him from the Centre too,” Gadkari said.
 
 When asked if he was saying that Parrikar, who had reluctantly left Goa chief ministership to take up the defence minister’s post would be back, Gadkari said the party did not have a shortage of leaders. “Can we say that you have given an indication that Parrikar’s stint is at an end In Delhi? How did you understand what I did not want to say? My exact sentence has been understood by the one who has to understand it,” he said.
 
 Gadkari said Parrikar has not expressed willingness to move back to Goa, “but we are keeping all options open”. When contacted over phone, Parrikar refused to comment. To a question why the BJP has not declared its chief ministerial candidate, Gadkari said the election was being contested under the leadership of Parrikar, Goa CM Laxmikant Parsekar, Union minister Shripad Naik and state BJP president Vinay Tendulkar. “If MLAs want, even Parsekar will be made the CM,” he said, with CM Parsekar seated next to him.
 
 CEC secretary J P Nadda also released a list of three party candidates for the biennial election to the UP legislative council.
 
 Defence minister and former CM Manohar Parrikar will be the key election campaigner for the party in the state where Congress, an alliance of regional outfits including one headed by a former RSS leader, and AAP are other players in the fray.
 
