LUCKNOW: Campaigning came to a climactic close on Monday in the fiercely contested battle for Lucknow, which at last count seems to be headed for a tight finish.The major parties -BJP, SP, Congress and the BSP - rallied fast and furious from the weekend - the holy city of Varanasi, PM  's Lok sabha seat, their battleground in the main.

 The BJP has had nearly 25 Union ministers make Varanasi their hub for the final phases before Modi's three-day blitzkrieg of rallies and special visits. The Kashi Vishwanath temple, no stranger to VVIPs, saw Modi drop by for a darshan on Saturday , followed hours later by Congress's Rahul Gandhi and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav with wife Dimple who stopped their “vikas rath“ mid-way for a darshan.
 
 It's been close to two months of an energetic campaign complete with slogans, barbs, bites and unsavoury comments. When elections were announced on January 4, the Samajwadis were embroiled in a nasty family war amid speculation that the party's bicycle symbol may be frozen.But Akhilesh's victory on the family front and SP's unprecedented alliance with Congress changed the narrative. The alliance -with a 31% vote share even during the 2014 Modi wave ahead of the Lok Sabha polls and bolstered by two young faces -emerged a formidable force, making the contest a threecornered thriller.
 
 The chemistry between Akhilesh and Rahul made their five roadshows and four joint rallies a huge draw. This apart from their solo shows -Rahul had over 50, Akh ilesh over 230.
 
 For the BJP , out of power in UP for 15 years, the results will verily be a mid-term ap praisal of its past two and a half years at the Centre.
 
 While party chief Amit Shah's booth level manage ment started a year in ad vance, the party gave tickets g o ing deep into caste cal culations. Its thrust on `winnability' forced the party to embrace several turncoats as nominees, sending its cadre into a sulk at places. Mayawati's BSP -smarting after a total wipe out in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections -spotted an op portunity in SP's internal fight and played on the front foot, positioning itself as an alternative for Muslims to de feat BJP . Her core Dalit votes combined with that of 20% Muslims, believes the BSP chief, will enable her party to reach the magic figure of 202.
 
 But BSP's Dalit-Muslim equation didn't appear as formidable once the SP-Congress tie-up was in place. This was seen in western UP and Rohilkhand districts: Muslims voted for BSP or the alliance depending on the candidate best placed to defeat BJP.
 
 In west UP , BJP unleashed its fire power: Yogi Adityanath and Keshav Maurya spoke of banning slaughter houses, triple talaq and love jihad in a bid to polarise voters. Polarisation among Hindus after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots had ensured a sweep for BJP , but sentiments this time weren't as communally surcharged. Jats too, who backed BJP in 2014 seemed miffed that their quota demands hadn't been met.
 
 As the seven-phase poll moved from west to east, poll percentage dipped from 65% to 57%, but the rhetoric of star campaigners' ensured that the political temperature kept rising.
 
