BATHINDA: Police are still groping in the dark even after 100 days of Maur bomb blast that claimed seven lives, including five children, and ripped apart the peace of Maur town in Bathinda district. They have only been able to release sketches of two suspects. The directions of Punjab chief minister   to the police with regard to solving the case at the earliest too have failed to yield any desired results.

 Many visits to adjoining states of Haryana and Rajasthan to collect details of the 1992-model   car (used in triggering the blast) and the pressure cooker manufacturing firms too have not given any clues about the perpetrators of the crime. The police also investigated about a Sirsa resident, who is learnt to have purchased a battery for the car by furnishing fake documents, just a few days before the blast.
 
 After the blast, the police had rounded up some suspects aiming to get some leads. However, they failed to extract any concrete details, said sources. Families who lost their members are looking towards police to provide them justice. The residents had formed a panel, Maur Bomb Virodhi Action Committee, and held many protests for the arrests of the perpetrators of the crime. “We also demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore each to the bereaved families, but to no avail. We have now lost faith in the police,” said committee member Naveen Kumar.
 
 Police picked up Kulbir Singh of Maur, who was acquitted in three cases of unlawful activities in 2009 during the clashes between Sikhs and   followers, but found nothing incriminating against him. Police also picked up Gursewak Singh of   village in Barnala on February 15 for questioning in connection with the blast. He was named in the killing of a religious figure in Rajasthan. 
 
 Suspecting the involvement of radical Left outfits in the blast, the police also rounded up former Punjab State Power Corporation Limited employee and labour leader Sukhmandar Singh and conducted a raid at the residence of Harbhinder Jalal. Even these efforts provided no clues to the investigators.
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said that, “As the case is of very serious nature, the details of investigation can’t be shared. Police are thoroughly investigating the case. We had released the sketches of the suspects on April 25 and are awaiting response about them from the public.”
 
