HYDERABAD: After the Special Investigation Team (SIT) identified 40 software professionals using narcotics, the information technology department has issued a set of directions to software firms identified. 

 The department has asked the firms to be extra vigilant and keep a close watch on employees in order to identify signs of drug intake.
 
 "I have personally contacted many centre heads of the respective IT companies, whose list has been shared with us by the excise department. Since no employees have been named, firms have been asked to maintain strict vigil and monitor all their employees, within the office premises and check for any signs or symptoms of drug usage," IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan said.
 
 "If such signs are detected in an employee, we have directed firms to act on it strictly and inform police," he added. 
 
 Experts say that a stress-free work environment might encourage employees to refrain from using drugs and increase their productivity. IT firms have now lined up a slew of awareness programmes and employee-engagement activities in order to tackle the issue of drug usage among employees.
 
 "It is unfortunate that such a trend has been noted among workers in the IT industry despite the fact that most companies, including us, conduct drug tests before recruiting a candidate. We have now decided to tackle the issue by educating employees about the side-effects of narcotics," said Vijay Ranganeni, chief executive officer at  .
 
 Other tech firms pointed out how there have been no instances of drug abuse within IT parks.
 
 "Thanks to foolproof security, there have been no instances of drug abuse within office premises. What we have observed, however, is that after dealing with work pressures, many employees consume drugs as a stress-relieving activity over the weekends. This is why we have decided to focus on conducting team-building activities over the weekends in order to engage employees and keep them occupied and in tune with the company's interests and policies," said Viswam Vemula, vice president of Polaris.
 
 Those working in the city's IT hub, which employs close to 4.7 lakh people as per latest figures provided by the IT department, however, were not very amused by this stance by the authorities as they felt it was 'unfair' for anyone to even name the industry in this unfolding drug saga in the state.
 
 "It is a law and order issue and it is unfair to drag IT companies. The only way for the authorities to tackle this is to work towards proper enforcement of rules," a techie said.
 
 Another techie pointed out that instead of pinpointing the IT industry, the government should be worrying about schools. 
 
