 After enforcing prohibition, the state government is geared up to launch a drive against child marriage and dowry on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on Monday.
 
  Thousands of posters and hoardings besides many radio jingles have already come up all over the state for the occasion. Women Development Corporation (WDC), which has got the responsibility to carry out the drive, will also telecast the live ceremony on its website.
  
    will lead the pledge at Gandhi auditorium here on Tuesday against the twin social evils and all the government schools, health centres, anganwadi centres, panchayats, mahadalit tola, local police stations and government and non-government offices will follow.
  
  People will pledge not to get married a girl below 18 years or a boy below 21 or participate in a child marriage or a wedding with dowry. They will also take a pledge to stop such marriages if they come across any, as a part of their social responsibility and make their state free of these two social evils.
  
  In case of any information on child marriage or dowry, they can contact the district magistrate, SP, local elected representatives, block development officer or the police station or call on the toll free number 181.
  
  WDC managing director (MD)   told TOI that the initial target is to make at least two crore people take this pledge and the department would continue with this drive until both the social evils were removed from the society. “This is largely a mass awareness campaign. We want to create an environment against dowry and child marriage and it will definitely bring lots of changes in people’s mindset,” she said.
  
  Vijayalakshmi further said a mobile app named ‘Badlo Bihar’ has also been developed through which people can take the pledge whenever they want. This free app available on Google Playstore has all the information regarding law and punishment for child marriage and dowry.
  
  She also said large number of girls were not able to utilize their talent and contribute to the society because of child marriage, which leads to 12% of GDP loss. It is to be noted that around 12.2% girls in the state become mother between 15 to 19 years of age by getting married at earlier stage. Also, according to a national family health survey, there has been 30% drop in the rate of child marriage in the country, but in Bihar, over 25% girl children were getting married below 18 years of age, sources said.
