With the first quarter of 2017 ending,   companies are coming up with several versions of next generation devices. From crystal clear displays, lightning fast processing speeds, multiple-day   and cameras that take pictures with professional quality; as a consumer, you are spoilt for choice. But to get the best deal on your smartphone, you need to consider few things...

 
 A lot of smartphones come with bloat-ware, which are applications that are pre-installed by phone companies. While some of these apps are essentials, others just end up using more space on your internal phone memory. If you’re buying a phone with 16 GB memory, a lot of bloatware may end up using more than half of that space. This means your phone will work slower on installing other apps. So, make sure you buy a phone with at least 64 GB of memory. Or, if you’re going for a slower variant, make sure there is a feature to transfer the apps from internal to external storage.
 
  Anything above 64 GB will ensure you have enough space for media and other apps.
 
  More storage means your budget will be pushed upwards by a few thousand rupees.
 
 
 
 Heavy usage will drain your phone battery quickly. So you need to be sure how exactly are you going to use it. If you stream videos, use apps and play a lot of games, you need to have a battery that is at least 3500 mh or more. This way you can at least get through one whole day in a single full-charge.
 
 Any battery above 3400 mh is good for heavy users. Anything below 3000 is fine for average users.
 
 A bigger battery will add to the weight of your phone.
 
 
 While some people use their devices for mainly calling, sending text messages and using social media, for others a smartphone is often a replacement for their laptops/ tablets. So, if you’re one of those who is completely okay with the idea of one device for all your online activities including watching movies, TV shows, streaming videos and reading books, you need to go with a phone that has a superior display and, understandably, a bigger screen. 
 
 
  Devices with Super AMOLED (reflects less sunlight) and higher pixel density ( at least 300 ppi)
 
 A brighter screen means heavy battery usage.
 
 
 Majority of young users increasingly opt for smartphones that make it easier for them to take pictures. These days, a lot of phones have simplified the process of taking photographs, so much so that you can break out your phone and take a selfie or a picture in one or two steps. There are also in-camera features which allow you to enhance and even jazz-up your pictures.
 
  For a phone that can take good pictures, the two essential elements are that it should be able to take clear photos in low light and even in ample sun light.
 
 The only downside to a good camera is that you may have a whole lot of photos to choose from to get to your best picture!
 
 
 The first thing to consider is the kind of usage you’re looking at. If you use multiple apps, are into heavy gaming and active on at least half-a-dozen social media platforms, you need a phone with a top-of-the-line processor.
 
 : Snapdragon 820, Exynos 8 Octa and Helio X30 are some of the quickest processors
 
 : A quicker processor means two things; increase in cost and your device may heat up soon.
 
 
 
