VADODAR: Citizens experienced the coldest day of the decade as mercury plummeted to 6.5 degrees Celsius on Friday morning. 

 According to Indian   (IMD), the temperature fell six degrees below normal. It was on January 25, 2008 when the city had recorded lowest temperature at 8 degree Celsius. 
 
 The all-time record for the lowest temperature in Vadodara was on January 22, 1962 when mercury had fallen to 2.8 degrees Celsius, as per IMD data. 
 
 The mercury has hovered between 8 degrees and 10 degrees in January since 2007.
 
 The day-time maximum temperature, which usually hovers between 32 degrees to 35 degrees in January, fell three notches to 25.9 degrees 
 
 The cold wave conditions are likely to prevail for the next two days at least, according to IMD. Entire Gujarat is reeling under cold wave following heavy snowfall in northern states. 
 
 Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the cold wave is expected to continue over next couple of days. 
 
 With winter firmly setting in, shops selling woollen garments, especially in the Tibetan market opposite  , are doing a brisk business. 
 
 While morning walkers made it sure to not miss their routine visit to the gardens, many gardens in the city also wore a deserted look on Friday. 
 
 Even the health freaks, it seems, gave a miss to their daily workout schedule to cozy up in their blankets. And those who dared to brave the chilly winds were found sipping on piping hot tea and bhajiyas at roadside stalls in many areas.
 
  The bird enthusiasts are, however, excited to visit the   in Dabhoi that attracts thousands of migratory birds during winters. 
 
 Meanwhile, there is a good news for kite flying enthusiasts. An IMD bulletin stated that wind speed on January 14 and January 15 is likely to be 12-15 km per hour, which is favourable for kite flying. 
 
 The winds would blow from north easterly direction to easterly direction, the bulletin said. 
 
 "It is because of heavy snowfall in North India that Gujarat is experiencing bitter cold," said Dr Vyas Pandey, head of   at Anand Agricultural University.
 
