
In October last year, Rachita Verma (name changed), a nervous newly wed in  , was pining for her husband. His job had beckoned him to Hyderabad merely eight days after their wedding and their stilted phone conversations did little to help her navigate the vagaries of an arranged marriage. Three days later, her husband found himself staring at a piece of premium Italian paper through which Rachita’s face smiled and blue ink cried of self-doubt. The letter made him pack his bags and materialise by her side on  , lighting her up if only for a day. That’s the power of the handwritten letter, feels Rachita, 29. “What you say can be misunderstood. But what you write cannot.”
 
 However, what her husband doesn’t know yet is that the letter was written by a man. Rachita had outsourced the job to a Bengaluru-based startup called The Indian Handwritten Letter Co (TIHLC) that she stumbled upon online. Over a three-hour telecon, she had tentatively explained her post-marital misgivings to a stranger who drafted them into a neat, 500-rupee-worth letter, superimposed with the couple’s photograph for impact. Since then, Rachita, now based in Bengaluru, has sent her spouse three more outsourced letters, the latest reaching his hotel in Kuwait even before he did.
 
 Not too long ago, when the Oscar-nominated film ‘Her’ showed its protagonist composing personal letters for the inarticulate for a living, the job appeared to be from a foggy, hyper-digital future. But present-day India has three such startups (including Callyally and  ) — all chiefly write love letters on behalf of educated, urban couples looking for a convenient retro gesture.
 
 This analog romance of snail mail has afflicted social media too. A rash of Twitter users such as @malvikonga (Malvika Mahidhar) are resolving to write a letter a day throughout 2017 while artists on   such as #Tawfik (Tawfik Manham) and #pranitart (Pranita Kocharekar) have been brewing an offline sub-culture of exchanging handwritten and hand-painted postcards. Many have routinely thrown off postal clerks with their wholesale orders.
 
 Just last week, Gurgaon-based brand consultant Neha Garg -- for whom 2016 was about giving up her Kindle addiction and reading only paperbacks -- posted a handwritten note on Twitter announcing that she was going to make 2017 about writing letters to strangers. Already, over 60 prospective recipients have signed up, supplementing their pin codes with ideas she can write about, such as ‘dogs’, ‘travel’, ‘meaning of life’ and the rather specific ‘living with parents after getting married’ which Garg, who is single, has no clue about.
 
 The overwhelming response doesn’t surprise her. “There is tenderness and vulnerability about the act of writing that typing cannot replicate,” says Garg, who has been religiously posting letters – some 12 pages long -- to her Mumbai-based friend, Himani with whom she hardly ever speaks on the phone.
 
 Unadulterated by online slangs and mindless superlatives, their prose follows the rules. Bhavika Thakkar, a 32-year-old TV producer, wrote 25-odd letters to friends and followers on   last year, each of which opened with the same line that began all her letters to her childhood pen pal: “Hope this letter finds you in the pink of health.” Besides bringing her close to long-lost friends in the US, the habit helped Thakkar discover the rare stationery shop in Mumbai that still sells letter paper (Chimanlals) and prompted her to purchase a Smith Corona typewriter to type letters.
 
 What has also fuelled this throwback trend is ‘postcrossing’, a global project that allows you to send and receive postcards from random strangers. Kandivli-based lawyer Mallika Mahidhar, whose Twitter handle is @appleglutton (she loves the fruit), too tried postcrossing for a while but gave up as the requests for pictures of cats and country were too much pressure. Since June last year, tired of meaningless texting, 23-year-old Mahidhar has been sending close to 10 handwritten postcards a fortnight with handpainted flowers on the back to friends and social media followers.
 
 Recently, when an 18-year-old messaged her saying “she was sick of her life”, Mahidhar bookended her message with wisdom borrowed from J K Rowling: “Happiness can be found in the darkest of times if one only remembers to turn on the light.” Touched, the girl put up the postcard on Instagram. Some receivers even reply in ink. “I’m wary of giving men my address,” says Mahidhar but recently, on discovering uncanny similarities with one particular male pen pal (he also has a twin and an elder sibling), curiosity prevailed. “I met him. It was great fun,” says Mahidhar, who has met five such pen friends so far.
 
 The personal quotient of these letters tends to rise if they are in regional languages. Anubhav Ankit, cofounder of TIHLC, says he is seeing a spurt in demand for such letters from smaller cities including Jalandhar, Guntur and Hubli. While birthdays, anniversaries and festivals keep their team of two editors and four writers busy dishing out close to 50 letters a day, unusual requests make their daily verbal role-play fun. Ankit recalls writing on behalf of a 10-year-old in Bengaluru who wanted to tell her mother’s boss that she felt lonely during lunch. “The boss extended the mother’s lunch time to two-and-a-half hours, allowing her to go home and take her daughter to her art class,” says Ankit.
 
 Of course, for millennials, the novel act of posting itself can throw up moments. While Garg stumbled upon an underground post office in Delhi that looked like a scrubby takeaway counter, Mahidhar rejoiced when she finally broke the ice with a postal clerk in Kandivli. “She would scowl at me every time I ordered 30 postcards at once,” says Mahidhar. It was only after several months, when she found Mahidhar’s handwritten postcards among the bulk deliveries, that the clerk smiled at her for the first time. For Mahidhar, this was a feat worth writing home about. 
 
