PUNE: There is no whiff of local-level poll alliances between the big parties or their intention to tie up with smaller parties as of now. 

 Political observers said the seat-sharing formulas that the leaders agree upon would provide the final stamp on such coalitions.
 
 As many as 162 corporators will be elected to Pune Municipal Corporation on February 21 but the sheer size of the panels will not make the selection of candidates nor voting for them easy. 
 
 Each candidate will have to seek votes from four wards. Leaders have said getting suitable candidates for all the wards has become tough for some parties and a decision on alliances will hold the key. 
 
 A saffron   for the city will be decided at the state level as both Shiv Sena and BJP will wait for orders from their high commands.
 
 “We will follow our leaders from Mumbai. They will take a call on how many seats will go to which party or if we should contest all the seats on our own strength,” Shiv Sena’s city unit chief Vinayak Nimhan said.
 
 The NCP and Congress coalition, which has been ruling   since 2012, may not stick together this time. Both parties are in two minds about a tie-up. As of now, the NCP has left it to the local units to decide while the Congress is waiting for a signal from the state leadership.
 
 Former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had recently announced that his party’s local unit in Pune will take a call on the alliance here. 
 
 “Our party will consult with the local leaders in Pune. They will check the sentiments of the party workers and the aspirants before a decision on the alliance. If the Congress is not showing any interest in a coalition, we will not press for it,” he said.
 
 After the last elections, the NCP had emerged as the single largest party in PMC with 51 seats followed by the MNS with 29 seats. The Congress bagged 28 seats, BJP won 26 seats, Shiv Sena had 15 seats and RPI won two. A lone independent candidate supported the NCP.
 
 The Congress’ city unit chief Ramesh Bagwe said his party has been preparing to contest the polls by itself. 
 
 “A decision about a coalition is likely in a week, but we are ready to fight on our own. If an alliance does not work out between the NCP and the Congress, we will go ahead with our plan,” he said.
 
 The MNS will not seek any alliance with any party. “I have not approached anybody for an alliance and nobody has come to join hands with our party. We will fight the civic election on our own,” MNS president Raj Thackeray said.
 
 
