The chance to decide the next governing body of the   (NMC) is here. The vote of each elector in the city will determine the shape the governing body takes and thereby, the policies for the city. 

 Celebrities and leading personalities from the city have already made their plans to head to the polling booth on Tuesday and are urging citizens to do the same. The NMC appointed two brand ambassadors for creating awareness among voters — right from registering their names in the voters’ list to registering their vote on the polling day. 
 
 Long distance runner and Olympian Kavita Raut and Mrs International Worldwide Queen 2015 Namita Kohok are the brand ambassadors for creating awareness among the voters. Besides, the NMC has also created videos and have been playing the state election commission’s jingles in theatres to create awareness. 
 
 “Voting is our right. Everyone should exercise it. Everyone should elect the leader of their choice. If you want the city to progress you have to vote. Even I will be going to my village in Harsul on Tuesday to exercise my franchise. I appeal to everyone not to lose their important vote on Tuesday,” Raut appealed 
 
 Kohok said that she strongly feels that instead asking what the country has done for you, one should ask what you have done for the country. “Instead of complaining, go and vote. When a man is educated, an individual is educated. But when a woman is educated, the entire family, the entire society is educated. So, if the woman takes the initiative, everyone will vote,” she said. 
 
 Other personalities have also made voting a part of their day’s schedule on Tuesday. Actor Chinmay Udgirkar has reached the city city to exercise his franchise. “We are living in a democratic country. The solution to our problems and complaints depends on the polling result. Act or react by voting, without which, change will not happen. The voting percentage will also show how educated and aware Nashik is. Vote for the candidate who will work for Godavari,” he urged citizens. 
 
 One of the two Indians to finish  , Mahendra Mahajan said that difference between a winner and a lose in the NCM elections depends on a few votes. “The margin is very less. So, educated and knowledgeable voters should cast their vote for the right candidates to mask the importance of paid voters,” he said. 
 
 Over the past few months, the civic administration and various non-governmental organisations have launched in intensive drive to increase voter turnout in the civic polls. During the civic polls in 2012, the voter turnout was 57%. 
 
 “If we celebrate polling day as a holiday then we do not have any right to grumble about anything. We should silently accept everything that is going around us. Voting is one of our democratic responsibilities,” said Shweta Joshi, a homemaker. 
 
 Municipal commissioner   who has been constantly urging voters to exercise their franchise said people should come out and vote without fear. “This is the biggest event of democracy. Everyone should vote for the city’s future,” Krishna said.
 
