THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   C Raveendranath told the assembly on Tuesday that the government has asked   entrusted with a   on the trouble torn   to insist on the democratisation of   in all private colleges.

 The LDF government's policy to allow democratic activities by student unions in all educational institutions is applicable to self-financing colleges as well, he said. “The government has already communicated this to the three-member committee headed by Justice K K Dinesan. This is required to prevent harassment of students in these colleges.Besides, active functioning of PTAs will be made mandatory,“ he said, replying to a calling attention motion moved by CPM MLA M Swaraj.
 
 The MLA had pointed towards the human rights viola tions, non-transparency in internal assessment and physical harassment of students by `disciplinary officers' in self-financing colleges. The education minister said that the panel of vice chancellors would soon submit a report on complaints regarding the conduct of examinations and award of internal assessment marks in self-financing colleges. The three-member committee with Calicut University former vice-chancellor K K N Kurup and educationalist and activist R V G Menon as other members has also started functioning, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state has requested the Centre to place under its jurisdiction the 886.7 sq km of non-forest land which is included in the total of 9,993.7 sq km land notified as ecologically fragile areas (EFL) in the Kasturirangan report. He was replying to a calling attention motion by K C Joseph, stressing the need to exert pressure on the central go vernment to exempt non-forest lands from the final EFL notification in the Kasturirangan report.
 
 Asked whether the government will include the demand as an agenda of the all-party delegation to be sent to New Delhi requesting for retaining the state's original share of food grains, the chief minister said the government will continue contacting the Centre in all possible ways to achieve the exemption of populated areas from getting notified as EFL.
 
 Meanwhile, forest minister K Raju, following a submission by opposition leader   on widespread destruction of forests in wildfire, said the department will form a state forest fire and crisis management cell.
 
 “The department has taken all precautions after dividing the forests into three zones ­­ low, moderate and high risk. Fire monitoring cells, control rooms and crisis management teams have already been put in place,“ he said.
 
