VENKATAPUR: A possible   was foiled on Saturday when a group of daily wage workers discovered an   (IED) planted on a road near   in the  .

 Despite information about the IED discovery in the morning, no police official visited the spot till evening. It is suspected that the IED was planted targeting policemen expected to launch a combing operation in the area. According to sources, due to suspicion that more than one such device could have been planted in the area, police officials did not visit the area. "A   and a dog squad will conduct checks in the area on Sunday morning and remove any explosive devices planted there. We have also advised people from the nearby villages not to venture into the area or take animals for grazing until we give an all clear announcement,"   inspector   said.
 
 A group of labourers, employed as part of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, who reached the spot near the Palem project, discovered an electric wire that was partly buried in the ground. "We were digging in the area when one of us hit upon the wire. When we pulled it out, we have found the wire extending from the nearby road up to the hillocks," one of the workers said. He told the reporters, who visited the spot, that they tracked the wire for nearly 3 km to some nearby hillocks. "Some sections of the wire's insulation was burnt in the recent forest fire," a worker added. However, on Saturday, there was no one in the hillocks and the workers immediately informed the police personnel at the nearby police station in Venkatapuram, which is also the mandal headquarters.
 
 This is the second instance of an IED discovery in Venkatapuram mandal in the recent months. Last December, an auto driver, who was asked by the police to pull out a Maoist post, suffered severe injuries when an IED, buried under the post exploded. That incident had occurred near Vijayapuri Colony on the Cherla-Venkatapuram highway. Prior to December incident, in June 2016, the police had defused another IED after it's presence was reported to them by some locals.
 
 Last December, an auto driver, who was asked by the police to pull out a Maoist post, suffered severe injuries when an IED, buried underneath exploded.
 
