GAYA: At least five people received gunshot or stone injury in violent clashes between a sand contractor’s supporters and villagers determined to prevent mining in the Tekari police station area of the district on Tuesday. 

 Alleging police-contractor nexus, irate villagers ransacked the local police station and torched two vehicles parked at the police station. The villagers marched through the main thoroughfares and forced the closure of shops in the area. 
 
 Police sources said fearing mishap due to indiscriminate sand mining at   of   river, the villagers offered violent resistance to the mining bid by the contractor who, along with hired goons, is alleged to have tried forcible mining in collusion with the local police and the mining officials.
 
 As per reports reaching the district HQ, goons hired by the contractor opened fire causing injury to two villagers. The firing incident enraged the villagers who resorted to heavy stone pelting. Five people, including ASI Devi Singh, were injured in the incident. They were forwarded to   Hospital.
 
 Last year, nearly two dozen persons lost their lives in   sadar and   subdivisions of the district due to drowning or boat capsize in deep ditches created by illegal sand miners. Fearing a similar fate, the Tekari villagers opposed sand mining at the Panch Devata Ghat.
 
 Gaya DM Kumar Ravi denied rumours of police firing to quell violence in Tekari. Private individuals, not the cops, fired the shots, he added.
 
 Asked about the allegation that mining officials and local police were hand in glove with the contractor, the DM said such complaints would be inquired. “Even if these complaints are true, villagers do not have the right to take law into their hands. They should have approached senior officials with their complaint,” said the DM.
 
 The DM who along with SSP Garima Malik rushed to Tekari to take command of the situation, also said that video footage was being scanned to identify the miscreants who indulged in violence inside the police station.
 
 Police on Tuesday afternoon staged a flag march in the area to restore confidence of the local businessmen who suffered losses in street violence. 
 
