NEW DELHI: The culture ministry has set the ball rolling for the   ( ) to probe into the functioning of the   after the Prime Minister’s Office took note of repeated complaints, including missing art works of noted painter   Hussain.

 ET has reliably gathered that the culture ministry, prodded by the PMO, decided at a December 6 meeting to refer the matter to the CBI and sack the Akademi top brass.
 
 The axe, an official said, is likely to fall on administrator CS Krishna Shetty for alleged collusion with secretary  , who is at the centre of the controversy.
 
 Documents on details of the December 6 meeting, accessed by ET, have alluded to possible links between Sharma and missing prized art pieces from LKA. The observation in document is quite scathing: “In a recent PMO reference, the reply of which is under submission to the HCM (Honourable Culture Minister), has observed that many high value paintings of artists like MF Hussain have been found missing in LKA. The role of Shri Sudhakar Sharma in this case is highly suspected.”
 
 Sharma, incidentally, was suspended once earlier but reinstated in 2015 by the culture ministry. He has been suspended for the second time now and this bit has been dealt with in the latest order. “It is evident that Shri Sharma is continuing to function in the same manner as previously, paying scant regard to rules and regulation prescribed for the Akademi as well as flouting the directions of the ministry and the HCM. In doing so, he is diminishing the stature of LKA as a premier akademi of arts.”
 
 The ministrty found many of Sharma’s administrative appointments illegal and this was listed at the December 6 meeting.
 
 ET has gathered that preparations are now on to serve Sharma a second charge sheet while making a reference to the CBI. Paperwork to act on Shetty, who was appointed Akademi’s administrator in September 2016, has also started.
 
 While the culture ministry did not respond to ET queries, top officials confirmed that action will be taken within the next few days. A Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) endorsement to proceed further against Sharma, has been obtained to bolster the ministry’s case.
 
 Sharma, when contacted by ET, said: “These are baseless allegations by people who are evading from corruption rackets. The move is being made only to keep me out of the system. I will fight this tooth and nail. I am unjustly being targeted by tainted retired bureaucrats with the help of their brethren in the ministry. I have followed all rules and procedures and therefore have been reinstated repeatedly.” Shetty also took the same line. “I would not like to comment at this juncture on any of the issues,” he told ET.
 
 The culture ministry and the LKA have been at loggerheads over Sharma for years now. He has been suspended twice before on allegations of corruption. In 2011, former chairperson Ashoik Vajpeyi ordered his suspension on the basis of the 2009 writ petition against him but was later reinstated by the ministry. He was suspended again in 2013 by then chairperson KK Chakravarty but this time he got reprieve from the Central Administrative Tribunal a year later. A day after his  , LKA suspended him again on fresh grounds. In April 2015, the culture ministry took over the LKA to set things right and in that effort, deemed it fit to bury old ghosts and revoke Sharma’s suspension. The effort was futile and on January 9, the culture ministry had to suspend Sharma yet again.
 
 Shetty, as the Akdemi’s administrator, is under fire for issuing “illegal and arbitrary” orders in December 2016 upgrading Sharma’s pay scale. This was done despite the fact that the LKA was asked to recover over .`28 lakh dues from Sharma allegedly “overpaid” to him during suspension.
 
 On this specific charge, Sharma claimed that the pay scale given to him is as per LKA rules.
 
