KOCHI: The  's (KSEB) new initiative of printing electricity bills on  , may have saved them money, but it has not gone down well with a section of  . People complain that the data on these paper gets  , and filing it for future reference is a tedious task. 

 KSEB bills are considered an important document as it can be provided as an address proof on demand. "It is nearly impossible to file the new bill which is a small strip of paper. There is a chance of they getting misplaced. The data printed on it gets erased fast and wouldn't be helpful in future," said V K Shankarankutty, president, apartment owners' apex association. Ensuring safe custody of bill in their absence is also hard, consumers say. Usually the electricity bill is left in the letter box or tucked in safe and convenient spaces if the owner is away. "Ipho
 
 t rarely get lost. But, the bill on such small strips of paper can go missing. The house owner would come to know about it only when KSEB staff hints at disconnection citing non-payment," said Sindhu, an employee with a private company. In apartments where there are care takers these bills are handed over to them. 
 
 Most apartments are occupied by tenants. The email ids and telephone numbers of the owners would be provided to the Board. "The information regarding bill payment seldom gets passed on to tenants. The Board should come up with a more reliable system. The phone numbers and email ids of the tenants too should be included," said Reena S, a software engineer.
 
 However, officials with KSEB said that they were trying to provide receipts on thermal papers which would last long. "The Board is using paper which lasts for more than a month," said an official. On pointing out that this does not serve long term purpose the official said that the issue would be addressed.
 
 On the question on SMS and emails alerts he said house owners could register on KSEB's portal and make payments. SMS is sent indicating bill payment. "The aspect of tenants paying electricity bills have not been taken into account. KSEB will have to look into it," added the official.
 
 
