In a pastoral letter issued by Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil dated January 8, the Roman Catholic diocese of Thamarassery advises Christian men of the diocese to get married before the age of 25 and women before the age of 23 years. 

 This directive, according to the church, would help avoid serious issues in family life. 
 
 
 
 The church’s circular is not an impulsive one but the result of a lot of research and discussions, considering the grass root issues in Christian families, says Fr. Abraham Kavilpurayidathil, chancellor and spokesperson of the diocese. “We felt that compared to other religions Christian men and women marry late and this is affecting their marital lives. They have a tendency to get married after becoming financially independent but things were better earlier when they used to get married in their early 20s and then struggled together to make ends meet. Now as they run behind their careers, we see a lot of Christian men remaining unmarried too. There are nearly 1,200 youngsters above 33 years of age in our diocese, who find it practically impossible to find a life partner. That is precisely why we brought out the circular,” he adds. 
 This new development has led to hullabaloo among the Christian youth of not only of the dioceses but also across the state. As the debate picks up momentum, Trivandrum Times listens in. 
 
 
 
 
 Dr Jerin Jose (32), single
 I totally disagree with the church diktat. In fact, I think marrying early will lead to more problems. People under 25 and 23 are those who have just come out of their teens and they might still be struggling to come to terms with adulthood.They might be in a fantasy world and only with age and experience would they become more practical and mature. Their expectations too will be realistic at a later stage. My personal opinion is that be it the church or any other religious institution, no one has the right to interfere in my personal affairs. They are no one to decide when and what I should eat, and when I should get married. Instead, they should spend their time on better things and try to inculcate more broad-minded thoughts in the youth and also work towards tolerance and acceptance of each other.
 
 
 
 R V Sreejith, High Court advocate
 In my experience, the majority of divorce cases that appear in court involve couples who got married at a very young age. Their problems include financial instability and emotional immaturity. The reasons cited by the Bishop can’t be justified as marital problems prevailed even in the olden days. There wasn’t much of emotional bonding and the couple remained in the marriage only due to lack of support and also to bring up the children. The only difference now is that people are more aware of their rights and divorce is not a taboo. I know a woman who was married at 15 and separated from her husband after a while. However, she remained legally married till her husband’s demise at the age of 100. Her status still remains ‘married’, as she never went for a divorce.
 
 
 
 Seema Lal, Psychologist
 Every institution, whether religious or otherwise can have its own rules and regulations, and those who wish to be part of the institution can abide by the rules or leave, as long as they are not denied their constitutional rights. They can have opinions about marriage but they shouldn’t be mandatory. I am not aware of any such research study about age being a factor in deciding the success of a marriage. Also, human behaviour is so beautifully complex that a single factor such as age cannot really be singled out as a predictor of marital success.
 
 
 
 Justin Jose (48), married at 23
 I believe that it has to be a personal choice and everyone should have the freedom to decide when they should get married. I got married at 23 because I was in love and I would have regretted if hadn’t. But I have to admit that it was too early for me to take the burden of a family. I could have lived single till 30 and explored the world freely and then taken up the responsibility of a family. In my opinion, one should marry post 30 as you will be financially independent and also clear about what you want in a relationship. And I wish to tell the church that rather than bringing up such regressive ideas, it should allow their priests and nuns to have a free life instead of forcibly imposing the vow of chastity, which is against the law of nature.
 
