BENGALURU: There's something about the name Bansal. After Sachin and Binny Bansal of Flipkart, Mukesh Bansal of Myntra, Rohit Bansal of Snapdeal and Peyush Bansal of LensKart, yet another Bansal has made a killing with a start-up.

  has just sold the company he founded eight years ago in the US, AppDynamics, to Cisco for $3.7 billion. Bansal now owns 14% of the company, after having diluted his stake to many venture funds over the years. So he'll get about $520 million (Rs 3,400 crore). The announcement came a day before AppDynamics was to launch its IPO, which valued the firm at $2 billion. AppDynamics' last round of funding had valued it at $1.9 billion. So the price that Cisco agreed to pay is almost twice any of that. Bansal graduated from IIT Delhi in 1999. He moved to the US soon after. In an article in the run up to the IPO, Forbes magazine wrote that Bansal's father had given him $200 so he could go to  .
 
 In a blog posted just after the announcement of the acquisition, Bansal says he knew he wanted to be an entrepreneur even when he was helping his father manage his business, back in India. Software, was his passion, a “magic clay“ that could be used “to sculpt solutions to different problems.“ The Bansal community, a sub-sect of the Aggarwal community, is also known to be skilled at trade and commerce. After his graduation, he shifted to Cupertino on an H-1B visa to work for a startup. He had to wait for almost eight years to get his green card. “I waited seven years for my employment-based green card and I wanted to leave my job and start a new company but couldn't,“ he told Forbes in a 2016 interview.
 
 In 2005, Bansal joined Wily Technology as an architect. CA ( ) bought the company in 2006, and two years later, Bansal left CA to found App Dynamics. Bansal's struggles continued during the initial days of building the venture. Many days were spent making the rounds on Sandhill Road in Silicon Valley, looking for investor interest. “Nights were spent coding on the couch in San Francisco,“ he recalls in his blog.
 
 He faced about 20 rejections from VCs, before he received his first funding round of $5 million. In the meantime, Bansal also convinced his friend Bhaskar Sunkara to join the venture. After that it looked like one high after another. AppDynamics went on to raise more than $350 million in eight funding rounds from Silicon Valley investors that included Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Lightspeed Venture Partners,  , Goldman Sachs, and Battery Ventures.
 
 AppDynamics, which has over 900 employees, develops software to help companies monitor their mobile apps and websites for bugs and fix them before customers drop off. In the first nine months of 2016, the company had revenue of $158.4 million, up 54% from the same period in the year before, and had a loss of $95 million.
 
 It was expected to be first tech company in 2017 to go for an IPO. Bansal, himself, had been publicly talking about AppDynamics' IPO plans, with experts voicing their opinion on the expected performance of the company. With the acquisition, AppDynamics will continue to be led by chief executive officer David Wadhwani, to whom Bansal had handed over the reins in 2015. Bansal then took on the role of chairman.Wadwani was previously with Adobe and Oracle.
 
