AHMEDABAD: Divyakant Soheliya alias  , 19, a resident of  , Vasna, became very angry when several ATMs failed to dispense the money he wanted. Seething with uncontrollable rage, he attacked, early on Friday morning, not one or two but six ATMs with his screwdriver in order to damage them.

  Vejalpur police on Saturday arrested Deep for vandalizing bank property and seized his scooter.
 
 Police said two incidents of ATMs being vandalized near   came to light on Friday morning. Four more similar incidents were reported by nationalized and private banks later in the day. 
 
 The cops were alarmed at such a large number of attacks in one night. In fact, policemen were deployed on Friday itself to prevent more incidents.
 
 A police official said that they had acquired CCTV footage from some of the   kiosks. “The footage shows a youth with a big screwdriver damaging the ATMs,” the cop said. “At one of the kiosks, the outer camera had identified the vehicle registration number after which the police tracked down the vehicle’s owner.”
 
 Police finally identified Deep as the one who had driven the vehicle on Friday between 2:30 am to 5:50 am and damaged the ATMs between Anjali Crossroads and Guptanagar.
 
 During his interrogation, Deep told the police that it was not his intention to break the machines or steal money. “He was just angry and frustrated that the machines were not dispensing money,” a Vejalpur police officer said. 
 
 Deep had gone out late in the night with his debit card. He wanted to withdraw Rs 200 for fuel and meal but the ATM did not have the cash. 
 
 “When this happened at two consecutive ATMs, he lost his cool,” the police officer said. “He then got a screwdriver from his scooter’s glove box and damaged the ATMs. In fact, he made it a point to damage all the ATMs that he found while on way back home.” 
 
 Damage to the ATMs of both nationalized and private banks worried bank officials. Thy lodged two FIRs with Vejalpur police. Police had asked the bank officials to deploy guards at unmanned ATMs, especially of the nationalized banks. City police had also started looking at the profiles of the gangs from Gujarat and other states which had been targeting ATMs.
 
