GURUGRAM: The   is among the most iconic in the international calendar. And this year, on April 17, there will be three Gurgaonites in the field. One of them,  , 44, has logged her fair share of marathon and half-marathon finishes. Without ever receiving any formal coaching.

 But she derives much joy from the simple act of  . “I don’t expect anything out of running. For me, it’s a blessing,” said Manisha, opening up to TOI.
 
 She was in her early 30s when she ran for the first time, following the birth of her first daughter. “That was just a start, but I was very grateful, because it cured me of my asthma!”
 
  And when she resumed, Manisha was 41, the family long relocated to  . “My daughters were learning squash, so I would take them to a park, where they would do their agility exercises. “They would also run and I would run with them. That’s how I started again. But it was all very casual, not very serious at all!”
 
 And a mother’s duties meant that Manisha only had a one-hour window (sometimes even less) for her running. But, as her husband and daughters once teased, given the time, she would likely keep on running. And when once they asked, ‘Why don’t you do half marathon?’ she went ahead and filled out a participation form for the 2013 Airtel  .
 
 “I had only 2-3 months to prepare. I had no idea what I had to do, I’d never trained for a half marathon!" Manisha’s only preparation was a couple of 21km races, alongside her daily regimen, an hour or two of running. Still, she was able to complete her first 21km in under two hours, in 1:59.
 
 Two years on, in Gurgaon, Manisha completed her first full marathon. “The first time I was going for a marathon, which was the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon (SCMM), I thought I must do at least one beforehand. Prior to that, I had never gone beyond 21km. And somehow, I ran 30km, for the first time. I realised I can do it, that I won’t die!” Come that debut marathon, she forgot about the distance. “I just ran to realise my dream of completing a full marathon!”
 
 Manisha’s training for every ‘half’ and ‘full’ includes running the same distance a week before. “In that last week, I don’t run long distances – only a maximum of 10km, the last kilometre of which would be sprinting.” Still, Boston came out of the blue. “In the 2016 SCMM, the second marathon of my life, I was timed at 3:52.25. It was not my personal best but I managed to qualify for Boston. I just made it – the qualifying time was 3:52.51!"
 
 Running, admits Manisha, has given her much happiness and peace of mind. And Boston is likely just another stopover of an ongoing journey.
 
 
