Kolkata: Regular flights to Cooch Behar is set to resume after 23 years while Burnpur near   will receive its first commercial flight later this year. The two airports — one under   (AAI) and the other Steel Authority of India Ltd (Sail) — were added to the existing three — Kolkata, Bagdogra and Durgapur — on  's aviation map in the first phase of Udan, the regional connectivity scheme that aims to connect underserved and unserved airports across the country. 

 Of the 128 routes announced by the Centre on Thursday, Bengal has bagged six: Kolkata-Burnpur, Kolkata-Cooch Behar, Kolkata-Jamshedpur, Kolkata-Rourkela, Kolkata-Durgapur and Durgapur-Bagdogra. All the six flights will be operated by Air Deccan. Of these, only the Kolkata-Durgapur sector is currently in operation with Zoom Air operating a 50-seater aircraft. At least half the seats in the new flights operated under the scheme will sport a fare of Rs 2,500. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, AAI regional executive director   said the Durgapur airport at Andal that was already in operation and the Cooch Behar airport in north Bengal that was not operational due to absence of operators would be ready for flights by July. But the third airfield at Burnpur would take longer as there were both security and operational issues that needed to be addressed. 
 
 “A study has already been done by our team and another will follow at Burnpur where the airfield has hardly been in use except for the odd chartered flight ferrying top Sail executives. So there's a bit of work on the airstrip. A fence needs to be constructed around it to secure the airfield. The small terminal building and tower has to be repaired. A VHF equipment is also required to provide ATC facility,” he explained. 
 
 The announcement has sparked considerable excitement among locals, particularly at Cooch Behar where two attempts to commence operations have failed in the past, once in 2011 and again in 2015. “Ït currently takes over 12 hours to do the 691 km journey by train. A regular flight at an affordable fare will be very helpful,” said Cooch Behar Chamber of Commerce secretary Rajen Vaid.
 
 In Burnpur and Asansol too, there is much delight in the prospect of having an operational airport near home even though Andal is only an hour's drive. Both Sachin Ballodia of Neematpur Merchants Chamber of Commerce & Industry and VK Dhall of HOtel Owners' Association said it was a matter of not just convenience but pride as well. 
 
 Bengal has 34 listed airports and airstrips but less than a dozen are considered viable. Many of them, including Behala and Malda, have encroachments along the flight funnel. These two airports, along with Balurghat, could make the scheme when the second phase is announced.
 
