Nagpur: As TOI digs deeper in the Armors Township case in which 11-year-old twins Priyansh and Piyush Dhar got electrocuted, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) favouritism towards builder Anand Khobragade from the beginning for getting the township sanctioned is becoming evident. The civic authorities took many questionable decisions that ignored the real picture. Even as the then assistant director town planning Sujata Kadu asked Khobragade to get the 33KV high tension (HT) line shifted in 2006, the 15-page note sheet has not a single mention of the line. Note sheets are government documents that record the progress of a case over the years. Land owner Arvind Meshram, who had given the power of attorney to Khobragade, had written a letter to Kadu in 2009 warning about the danger posed by the HT line. There is no mention of this letter in the note sheet. Kadu too did not take action against the construction under HT line. Not only the town planning department, the Ashi Nagar zone office too submitted a report that “did not portray the ground reality.” A letter dated June 6, 2015, written by the then zonal assistant commissioner Harish Raut stated that the work on basic amenities in the township was 60-90% complete. The letter claims that 90% work on internal roads had been completed, 60% work on storm water drains, 70% on sewer lines and 80% on water pipelines. The same figures are mentioned in the town planning department’s note sheet. However, according to the residents, only the work of sewer lines was completed. “Till date, there are no internal roads and storm water drains. Out of the 18 row houses, hardly 5 or 6 have water pipelines. Flat schemes too do not have water connections, and we have been buying drinking water cans,” said a resident. Raut, who is now the assistant commissioner of Mangalwari zone, said he could not recall the case at all. Kadu, who is not responding to repeated calls and messages of TOI, had said earlier that she could not recollect the case. In 2007, Arvind Meshram’s father Arjun who was the land owner then, had filed a civil suit against Khobragade and NMC in lower court following a dispute over power of attorney. He then moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC). However, in the note sheet, an entry made by NMC officials stated that the civic body was not a party in the HC case. Arvind Meshram alleged that NMC officials made a factually incorrect entry in the note sheet to favour the builder. “Had they admitted that NMC was a respondent, Armors Township’s building plan would have been put on hold,” he said. In 2016, HC passed an order restraining Khobragade and NMC from constructing a wall around the township. TOI also got possession of the township’s plan that was sanctioned in April 2006. The plan nowhere shows presence of the HT line. “Had a proper spot inspection been done at the time of sanctioning, human lives could have been saved. Despite knowing that the line posed danger to us, NMC kept approving the township at every stage. Now, to cover up its past mistakes, NMC is trying to evict us,” residents said. Recently, NMC’s Ashi Nagar zone office issued notices to residents asking them to vacate their houses in five weeks. NMC plans to demolish row houses that are under the HT line.