Ludhiana: The Director, Health and Family Welfare(Punjab) has been asked to look into a complaint alleging that a senior medical officer (SMO) of Civil Hospital had tried to influence the probe into three consecutive deaths in Mother and Child Hospital(MCH) of Civil Hospital.

 The development comes following a complaint by a relative of the deceased alleging that the gynaecologist who conducted surgery was wife of the senior medical officer (SMO) in the hospital who might influence the probe. 
 
 Three women had died within a week in the hospital, in November 2015, during the delivery including Amrita. 
 
 As per the letter sent by the state health department to Director, Health and Family Welfare (Punjab), following the case of Amrita — a pregnant woman, who allegedly died due to negligence of a Civil Hospital doctor — in November 2015, when three consecutive deaths occurred in Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) of Civil Hospital.
 
 Amrita’s brother-in-law Raj Kumar Saathi said: “The gynaecologist doctor who did the surgery is Dr Kulwinder’s wife, Dr Malwinder Mala, so I had a doubt the SMO might change records, or influence anyone in this matter. Thus, in February, I had written a letter to the chief election commission (CEC) — at which time the election code of conduct was in force — accusing the SMO of the same, as three deaths occurred in Civil Hospital, and all these three procedures were conducted by Dr Mala.” 
 
 On the complaint sent by Raj Kumar, the Election Commission had asked the state health department to take action, and which was further forwarded to Director Health to inquire into the matter and report within 15 days. Raj Kumar further added: “The Punjab government had formed a state-level committee in this case, to enquire about the cause of death. And I have been asking for a copy of the report since my first RTI, which I had filed in February last year. But hopefully, in the next hearing on October 9 in the State Information Commission, I might get a copy of the report, and will take further action after going through the report.”
 
 Refuting the allegations, Dr Kulwinder Singh said: “I am not influencing anyone. I am just doing my duty. Besides, when the inquiry was done, I was not even posted here.” 
 
 THE AMRITA CASE
 
 Amrita’s brother-in-law Dr Raj Kumar Saathi said: “The incident happened when Amrita was admitted in the Civil Hospital on 27 November 2015, to deliver a baby. On 27th night, Dr Mala performed a C-section, and delivered a male baby. After 20 hours, her BP started falling, and she was referred to CMCH (Christian Medical College and Hospital), and on 2 December, she died. The death occurred due to negligence of doctors, as from the same doctor, two more deaths occurred in the same week, and no action has been taken. Even in the death certificate, it was written that death had occurred because of infection from the operation theatre.”
 
 Amrita (25) was admitted to the Mother and Child Hospital of the Civil Hospital on November 27, 2015, for delivery. After delivery, she got serious and was referred to the Christian Medical College and Hospital. She died there on December 2. Meanwhile, two other women, Ruby and Sujata, also lost their lives in a similar manner between November 29 and December 2. 
 
 
