HYDERABAD: Six men trapped inside an illegal cooler manufacturing factory in Rajendranagar were burnt alive in an early morning fire on Wednesday that destroyed the unit within minutes.

 Residents in the quiet locality along   were jolted out of sleep by the sound of blaring fire engines and frantic screams for help from ' '.
 
 Neighbours tried to drive open the cooler-manufacturing unit, but it was locked from inside by migrant workers from Jharkhand and Bihar. Four of the deceased were identified as Irfan, a contractor, his brother Mujahid, Saddam and Saha. There were two other bodies inside the charred factory, who police say were not workers and are yet to be identified.
 
 Officials from Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services department, who received an emergency call at 5.05 am, said five fire tenders and two bike-borne firefighters rushed to the spot, but the structure was gutted within minutes. “It took an hour's time to control the fire and by the time rescue workers could break in, those inside the building were charred and bodies beyond recognition,“ said V Papaiah, a regional fire officer. After a preliminary inquiry officials suspected the fire was caused by a short-circuit., “Since it was a cooler factory, there were many khus-khus mats strewn around the area.The sparks could have set ablaze these mats, triggering the fire,“ he said.
 
 Rescue workers on the spot said workers had downed shutters from inside and misplaced the keys. Their attempts to break out failed as they failed to find the keys on time. Later, police arrested the owner of the manufacturing unit, Pramod Kumar, and said the entire unit was illegal and launched an investigation. After bodies were exhumed from under the wreckage, deputy commissioner of police PV Padmaja sent them to   for autopsy.
 
 “The dead hailed from Jharkhand and Bihar,“ said ACP K Ganga Reddy. He said the owner told police that four of his workers were inside the unit, but the presence of two more baffled him as well.
 
