BHOPAL:The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking forward to capture more than 200 seats in  , and has set a target of winning not less than 210 seats in the 2018 assembly polls. Party’s state working committee meeting held at the regional head-office, on Saturday also released its poll slogan ‘Abki Baar 220 Paar’' (This time more than 200 seats).

 “We have given poll slogan ‘Abki Bar 200 Par’, and we are sure to make a clean sweep in 2018 assembly elections on the basis of development and welfare scheme launched by the state and central governments. We see Congress as ‘no challenge’ and the issue raised during recent farmers' agitation has been rendered ineffective”, said party's state vice-president Ajay Pratap Singh while briefing reporters after the meeting. 
 
 Party state chief   claimed in his welcome address that ‘there was no farmers' agitation in Mandsaur, rather a well-planned riot’. He announced that the party would fight the assembly election under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan and win fourth time in succession. “It would be inappropriate to say that farmers had launched an agitation in Mandsaur. We do not consider it as farmers' agitation, but a well-planned riot. This would in no away affect party's progress and its political clout'', claimed Singh.
 
 The party also passed political and agriculture resolutions during the meeting. The political resolution presented by MLA Rameshwar Sharma highlighted the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the Centre and role of Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in the state. The members also congratulated President-elect   for his unprecedented victory in the elections and said that they were proud to have their party members occupy top four constitutional positions in the country. Now, the party is all set win the election for Vice-President too, said Ajay Pratap Singh.
 
 The resolution also highlighted welfare schemes for poor and marginalised besides, the repercussions of Narmada Sewa Yatra, Mass Plantation Drive and Kisan Sandesh Yatra. It said that in 2018, the party would again go to the public with the report card to achieve a new target ‘Apki Bar 200 Par’.
 
 Earlier, the working committee meeting began by presenting books and shawls to guests and members, as started by Prime Minister Modi, recently. The members also paid tributes to the farmers killed in Mandsaur firing and observed two-minute silence.
 
 
