

 You earn well but are unable to save. You have no idea where your salary goes. You sometimes borrow to pay your bills.
 
 If any of these statements applies to you, it’s time to write down a household budget. Many people are put off by the word   because they associate it with restrictions on spending and frugal lifestyles. That’s a misconception. Budgeting does not make you spend less, but allows you to spend smart. “A good budget lets you focus your money on the things that are most important to you,” says   expert Carl Richards. By preventing you from overspending on less important items, a budget channelises resources to areas that should be given priority.
 
 In the post-demonetisation economy, tracking expenses is not cumbersome. But the use of plastic and other cashless modes means overspending can be a problem. This is where budgeting apps play a critical role. They help track your expenses and alert you if you exceed limits. Beep! if you overshoot the limit on dining out. Beep! beep! If you swipe your card too many times at the garment showroom. Overspending on eating out and clothing is the most common reason why young people lose out on the golden years of compounding. If you save `10,000 a month in an option that earns 10% annually, your corpus at the end of 30 years would be a massive `2.16 crore. But if you start five years late at 35, your corpus will be smaller by almost `96 lakh.
 
 Derailing of financial goals is not the only problem. Shopaholism can ruin careers and cause disharmony in married life. An online survey conducted by ET Wealth found spending too much was the most common reason for money arguments among couples.
 
 As we all know, the profusion of choices offered by e-retailers and the convenience of online payments have led to an overshopping epidemic in India. Most buyers, especially the younger set, don’t realise that every unnecessary purchase pushes back their long-term goals. “Shopping is not a vice, but it can become a problem if expenses prevent the individual from saving for critical goals,” says D.P. Singh of SBI Mutual Fund. Budgeting can prevent such situations. It prioritises your expenses and allocates resources in a way that all your financial commitments are addressed.   shows that households that follow a budget save more money than families that haven’t laid down rules.
 
 This is simply because if a family has allocated some money for investment, that amount will automatically get invested every month. On the other hand, the family with no budget will tend to overspend on discretionary items and push long-term goals on the backburner. If you still think you don’t need to formulate a household budget, take the short test below. It will give you a fair idea of where your finances are headed and what you should do to get a grip.
 
 
 
 
 The first step in budgeting is to write down the various sources of income. This includes salary, rent, interest on deposits, dividends, etc. Then make a list of expenses incurred in a month and allocate money to each of these heads. Include everything, from the grocery bill to what you pay the maid, from fuel expenses to the EMI of the car. For some expenses, such as school fee or insurance premium which are paid every quarter or once a year, you may have to calculate the monthly figure. There’s a widely used 50:30:20 rule of budgeting. This back-of-the-envelope principle says 50% of your income should be used for essential expenses (food, shelter, clothing), 30% should be used for discretionary spending and 20% should be put into savings. But this is not an iron-clad allocation and could vary across individuals and financial circumstances. Those with big-ticket home loans may find that their housing cost is almost 50-60% of their income. We looked at the spending pattern of the average middle-class urban Indian household and tweaked the formula to make it 60:20:20 (see graphic). Compare your own expense allocation to know where you stand.
 
 
 
 Apart from the broad limits for each type of expense, there are some sublimits for specific categories. Your monthly outgo for loan repayments should not exceed 50% of the monthly income. This is also why lenders scrutinise your bank account statement to see how many EMIs you are servicing before they extend a loan to you. It’s okay if your EMIs are up to 50% of income if they include one for a home loan. But car EMIs should not exceed 15% while personal loan EMIs should not account for more than 10% of the net monthly income. If your EMIs gobble up too much of your income, other critical financial goals, like saving for retirement or your kids’ education, might get impacted. Retirement planning is often the first to be sacrificed in such situations.
 
 The good part about budgeting is that if the EMI is factored into the monthly expense, it will be paid on time. If you stick to the budget, you will not have to worry about the EMI payment or credit card payments. The budgeting will ensure that there is enough money in the bank to pay the EMI and meet other financial commitments. It can take a big load off your back and transform your financial future.
 
 Like loan repayments, there can be other sub-limits such as the expense on life insurance. Ideally, the life insurance cost of an individual should not be more than 2-3% of the income. Someone earning `6 lakh a year will be able to buy adequate insurance cover for `12,000-18,000. However, this will be possible only if he goes for the low-cost term insurance. Any other form of life insurance will gobble up too much premium and not give enough life cover. An endowment or money back plan with a life cover of `10 lakh will have an annual premium of nearly `80,000-1 lakh.
 
 
 
 The best budgets are those that allow the household some flexibility. If you have some money left over in one category, it should be used for expenses where you are facing a shortfall. The only exception to this should be the money earmarked for investing. As a rule, this money should not be used for any other category except in case of a dire emergency. This will ensure that overspending does not impinge your financial goals.
 
 Even so, future financial goals are the first victims of overspending. One way to ensure that your investment plans don’t fall by the wayside is to automate them. Start an SIP in a mutual fund (or a recurring deposit if you are risk averse). The ECS mandate will ensure the money gets invested on the due date every month.
 
 
 
 
 Once you start following a household budget, in about 2-3 months, you will notice a pattern in your spending which will tell you where you need to cut down or how you can get more out of your money. Your savings pattern will allow you to draw up plans for short-term and long-term financial goals, such as a vacation, a new car or your child’s education.
 
 Your budget will tell you exactly how much you would have saved for these goals in the given time. A household budget is a guide that helps you live within your means. However, it should not be based on flawed assumptions and incorrect information. A budget that is too ambitious or impractical is likely to fail.
 
 
 
 
