KOLKATA: A nearly 1,500-year-old Tibetan manuscript written in gold, which could have been a proud possession of any museum, is lying neglected at the Kalimpong court ' ' for the last eight years. The CBI, which seized the priceless 'antique' from a smuggler, was directed by the court to hand it over to a reputable institute. But the agency has “done nothing“ over the years to find a suitable place for it.

 CBI came across this invaluable manuscript - ' ', or 'Prajnaparamita' -during the Nobel theft investigation. The agency had arrested two antique smugglers -Chedi Prasad and his associate Srikant Prasad -from Bhagalpur in Bihar. Though the medallion was not found on them, the duo gave leads on the 'Goithongpa' that was in possession of one Solen Lama, a resident of Kalimpong.
 
 Introduced by Chedi Prasad, CBI officers A N Moitra and D Ghosh and Kalimpong Police inspector L K Jaiswal met Lama, posing as customers. Lama agreed to show the 'Goithongpa' against Rs 25 lakh. They arrested him as soon as he brought it out from the backyard of his house.
 
 According to the CBI petition filed at Kalimpong court, Lama had migra ted to India during the Chinese aggression in Tibet in 1959. Then in his thirties, he had brought this manuscript along with him. Lama was supposed to sell it to a Japnanese antique smuggler for Rs 3.5 crore but he was arrested before the sale.
 
 CBI filed a chargesheet against Lama, Chedi Prasad and Srikant Prasad in 2009 and in 2012, the court declared the manuscript as a `suspected antique'. It had asked the agency to preserve the 'Goithongpa' at a national museum. During the course of the case, Lama died and Chedi and his associate got bail.
 
 Speaking to TOI, CBI lawyer  , who had contested the case at the Kalimpong court, said, “An article needs a certification from the ASI, Delhi, for being termed as 'antique'. Instead of getting certified by the Delhi ASI, CBI got it certified by Kolkata ASI. This prompted the court to declare the manuscript as 'suspected antique' and ordered the CBI to hand it over to a national museum.CBI shrugged off its responsibility and didn't take any initiative to preserve it. I have written to CBI many times but there was no response from the other side.“
 
 “It had happened long back and we need to check the details. We can comment only after that,“ a CBI spokesperson told TOI from Delhi.
 
