CHENNAI: The Chennai city   have arrested J Krishnamurthy, 28, who recently approached the Madras high court claiming to be late   chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s son.

 Acting on an order of the Madras high court, the central crime branch of the city police arrested Krishnamurthy from Dindigul bus terminus on Friday. 
 
 Krishnamurthy had been moving from one place to another on government buses for the past one week after the high court ordered his arrest on March 27. 
 
 Justice R Mahadevan had ordered to arrest Krishnamurthy and produce him before the court on April 10. 
 
 A police team led by the CCB police inspector Anand Babu narrowed down on Krishnamurthy when he was waiting in front of a hotel, while a lawyer who accompanied him went into the hotel to have dinner. 
 
 A police team brought him to Chennai by road and produced him before a metropolitan magistrate court in Egmore on Friday night. 
 
 Krishnamurthy told the investigation officers that he stayed in two lawyers’ houses in Chennai for couple of days before travelling across the state in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses. 
 
 An investigation officer said, "We have been following Krishnamurthy by tracking mobile tower locations. We missed him narrowly to apprehend him in Tiruvannamalai, Vaniyambadi and Karur. Later, one of the teams nabbed him at Dindigul. We kept on sending his photograph to all the district superintendents of police to trace him, however he missed narrowly." 
 
 Soon after identifying him, the police bundled him into a police vehicle and took him to a secluded place. He was later brought to Chennai. 
 
 "A senior police officer will inform the court on April 10 about the apprehension of Krishnamurthy," said the police officer. 
 
 Krishnamurthy moved the court claiming that he was born to   and the late Telugu actor Shoban Babu. He submitted documents, including a 'deed of adoption', and sought the court's help to declare him as her son and hence entitled to her properties, including the famous Poes Garden residence in Chennai.
 
 He also sought a direction to the director general of police to provide him security, as he feared threats from the family of Jayalalitihaa aide and AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala.
 
 When Krishnamurthy moved the court in mid-March, the judge flayed him in open court and directed him to hand over the document to the Chennai city commissioner of police for examination. 
 
 As per the direction, the Central Crime Branch scrutinised the document which had photographs of Jayalalithaa and Shoban Babu, besides signature of former chief minister and Jayalalithaa's mentor M G Ramachandran. 
 
 Inspector of police, the Central Crime Branch, submitted in a sealed cover which apparently identified his parents in Tiruppur as his biological parents and dismissed his Jaya son theory comprehensively.
 
 Citing a police report, Justice R Mahadevan lambasted the man, J Krishnamurthy. He directed police to take appropriate action against him. 
 
 "The inspector of police, CCB ( Central Crime Branch), submitted a report in a sealed cover. The petitioner, who is son of Krishnamurthy and Vasanthamani and not the alleged son as falsely claimed by him. It is also alleged that old stamp papers were purchased from one Subramanian, a stamp vendor and fabricated and the name of former chief minister was written as Komalavalli alias Jayalalithaa. Only with an ulterior motive that the petitioner came to this court. The report filed by police is placed on record. Police are directed to secure the person connected thereto and proceed in accordance with law and report before this court on April 10, 2017," the CCB report said.
 
 
