CHANDIGARH: The   has claimed that it has managed to achieve 90% satisfaction level of government school teachers with its “innovative online teachers transfer policy”. Launched in August 2016, the state’s   is one of its own kind in the country, where teachers are issued posting orders as per their registered preferences.

 Haryana is second state after Karnataka that has evolved such policy to make possible the transfer of government teachers online. While Haryana has made all the transfer/postings online, Karnataka, however, has partially implemented such a policy.
 
 Online transfer policy was launched to prevent political interference in shifting of teaching staff in the state. The aim was also to reduce frequent transfers of teachers hampering study of children mid-session. Since August 2016, the department has transferred around 40,000 various teachers through online process.
 
 Claiming it to be a successful experiment, additional chief secretary of   P K Dass Haryana told TOI, “We have witnessed around 90 % satisfaction among the teaching staff regarding their transfers. Online transfer process has saved them from political exploitation as they do not require going after politicians for transfers. It has also give a sense of security to them that they would not be disturbed by anyone at least for a fixed time.”
 
 Though a teacher can stay at one station for five years after getting online posting but those not satisfied with postings, have option to participate in the new drive every year. Regarding large number of teachers visiting directorate or filing complaints alleging arbitrariness in online transfers, Dass said that a large number of such dissatisfied lot were those who depended on others or cyber cafe owners for filing of their options online.
 
 “We except that at least teachers are well aware of basic computers skills and those suffering because of computer illiteracy do not deserve any mercy in present digital age,” Dass added.
 
 He, however, said that department would make certain changes in the policy so that the teachers with disabilities, especially completely blind, those with complete lower limb disability and those suffering from cancer could be accommodated. They would not be transferred without their consent, he added.
 
 President of Haryana school lecturer association   too accepted more than 90% of teaching staff was satisfied with online transfers. He, however, claimed the limitation of choice of stations in zones for PGTs/school lecturers outside their district was sometimes creating hardship for the female teachers and those desirous posting other district.
 
 The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government had transferred around 10,000 school lecturers/PGTs on August 6, and around 27,000 primary teachers and head teachers on September 17, 2016. Around 2,500 PGTs/school lecturers were also shifted in second transfer drive by the department in December 2016. More than 40,000 trained graduate teachers are expected to be shifted by April 2017.
 
 600 new principals by March
 
 The state education department would promote around 600 PGTs/school lecturers by March 2017. Though the department has prepared a final list but it would be implemented after the end of present academic session so that no disturbance is caused to the students. This time, the principals would be given stations though manual counselling but in future promotees would be given posting through online process.
 
 Vacancies to be filled by May
 
 The state education department is expected to get around 6,500 new PGTs and around 1,900 TGTs by May 2017 so that most of the immediate vacancies of teaching staff would be filled. A fresh requisition to recruit more teachers would be sent to selection agencies after the joining of these teachers.
 
