BHOPAL:   chief  's week-long visit to Madhya Pradesh will witness a major strategy on future plans of the sangh parivar with respect to tribals amid speculations of the outfit’s declining base among tribal population.

 Bhagwat will begin his tour from Bhopal on Tuesday where a meeting of top RSS brass has been convened at Sharda Vihar. In the meeting, Sangh Sarkaryavah (general secretary) Bhaiyyaji Joshi, joint general secretaries (Sah Sarkaryawah) Krishna Gopal and Suresh Soni will be present. 
 
 Sangh has also called office bearers of central, Malwa and Madhya Bharat region prant pracharaks in the meeting to discuss core issues of their regions. The   is likely to meet BJP core group leaders too. 
 
 The main programme which RSS has planned to woo tribal population will be held in Betul on February 8 and is named Virat Hindu Sammelan. Objective of the programme is to promote social cohesion and healthy lifestyle apart from addressing environmental issues through plantation. But, sources in the sangh parivar observed that Betul congregation will be a major strategy to get tribals and dalits solidly in the fold. The programme is expected to help the BJP in its objective of consolidating the majority community votes. 
 
 “Dalits constitute about 15% and tribals about 21% of the population in Madhya Pradesh. Holding the event in a tribal district helps the RSS raise the issue of conversions and address the spread of Left-wing extremism in tribal areas in the area which borders Maharashtra,” said a senior RSS functionary. 
 
 On February 9, Bhagwat will visit Govind Nagar near Bankhedi town of Hoshangabad district to attend the silver jubilee programme of  . 
 
 “RSS has the social responsibility of creating awareness and spreading education through its cultural ideology and regional essence. We are conducting community schools like Ekal Vidyalaya (single-teacher school) in forest areas and Bhagwat ji's visit is crucial to boost activities in the region,” RSS regional publicity in-charge, Narendra Jain told TOI.
 
 He said some meetings of the sangh parivaar are part of routine discussion but, RSS chief will be in the state for a week to attend various programmes.
 
 Bhagwat will be in Bhopal for two days. On February 10, he will attend Shram Sadhak Sangam, a programme organised by RSS frontal organisation Sewa Bharti to mark the birth anniversary of Sant Ravidas. The programme will be held at Lal Parade ground at 4pm. The next day, he will deliver the inaugural lecture of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay lecture series organised by RSS mouthpiece magazine ‘Charaiveti'. The programme will be held at   in Bairagarh at 2pm. The party has asked all the state office-bearers, members of boards and corporations, MPs and MLAs to attend the meeting.
 
 The RSS chief will be visiting Ujjain for two days and take meetings of regional office-bearers and RSS workers on February 12 and 13, stated an official release. 
 
 
