NAGPUR: The ongoing celebrations within the Jain community will culminate into a grand event on Sunday to observe Mahavir Jayanti. 

 The community has been holding a number of events since April 1 as a build up to Mahavair Janam Kalyanak Mahotsav which will be celebrated by all the sects of Jains at Chitnis Park.
 
 A procession will start from Digambar Parvar Mandir at 7.30am comprising of four decorated chariots and six floats, says Piyush Shah, secretary of  . 
 
 “The procession will move through Shahid Chowk, Itwari Tanga Stand, Badkas Chowk, Mahal, Tilak Putla, Gandhisagar and arrive at Chitnis Park around 9.30am. All through the route, a drone will sprinkle flowers on the procession.”
 
 A huge pandal with a dome measuring 100ftx160ft has been set up to accommodate 8,000 people in the morning. “It is only in Nagpur that all sects of Jains celebrate together. We have invited four saints from outside who will be present during abhishek,” Shah adds. Meal arrangements have been made for 5,000 people in the morning, says Shah.
 
 The evening event will have presentation of Ahimsa Awards to those community members who have excelled in their sphere. The awards will be presented by union ninister for women and child welfare Maneka Gandhi. Union minister for transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, will also be present. 
 
 “We will give seven awards in different categories, namely dharmik shravak, social work, dharmik little master, gunwant yuva award, gunwant vyaktitva, lifetime achievement and an additional award for outstanding performance to a person from our community who has made to Guinness Book of Records,” Shah said.
 
 Giving details of the events held so far, Sarita Jain, president of the Mahila Samiti of Jain Seva Mandal said, “Celebrations commenced on April 1 with a bhav yatra which is a procession that visits all 13 Jain temples in Itwari, Lalpura, Maskasath and   area. On April 2, a car and bike rally was staged for darshan of all Jain temples in the city. This rally ended at   on Central Avenue where fruits and food was given to patients,” Jain said.
 
  Cultural programmes for women were held on April 3 and 5 at Indra Bhavan. 
 
 “On Ram Navami day, we performed aarti of the shobhayatra and various cultural programmes were organized at Chitnis Park on April 6,7, and 8.”
 
