JAIPUR: The   hearing the 2007   is likely to pronounce the quantum of sentence to the three convicted on March 18.

 The special court on Thursday heard arguments on the quantum of sentence and adjourned the matter for Saturday.
 
 Public   argued that the court should consider the fact that the bomb blast was premeditated and meticulously executed killing three persons and leaving 15 injured. He demanded maximum punishment to the guilty.
 
 He pointed out that the bomb was planted at the place of Sufi saint which is respected by both the Hindus and Muslims. He cited that the Supreme Court judgement which said that Hinduism is not a religion but a way of life. Indian culture follows the theory of live and let live, adding that it was an attack on Indian culture.
 
 The   taking objection to linking the case with religion argued that the case should not be linked with religion after the prosecution submitted that “it is a first of its kind where it has been proved that the members of a particular community to which the convicts belong are involved in terror activities”.
 
 The defence counsel Rana argued that both Sections of 120-B of IPC and 18 of the   (Prevention) Act (UAPA) deal with conspiracy and so only the latter should only be considered to fix the quantum of punishment. But the prosecution argued that there is no such provision s Unlawful Activities Act is a special law. 
 
 The court had on March 8 convicted Bhavesh Patel, Devendra Gupta and Sunil Joshi while acquitting seven others including Swami Aseemanand. Sunil Joshi had died even before the trial began.
 
 Conviction has been made under charges of criminal conspiracy, malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings and related offences and relevant Sections of the IPC, Explosives Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act.
 
 The blast on October 11, 2007 in the dargah of Khawaja Moinuddin Chisti at the time of Roza Iftaar, had left three pilgrims dead and 15 injured.
 
 The case was handed over to ATS Rajasthan and later transferred to NIA which re-registered the case with the agency's police station in New Delhi on April 6, 2011.
 
 There were as many as 149 witnesses in the case and 451 documents were examined and the NIA filed three supplementary charge-sheets in the case.
 
