Bhopal: The long-standing dispute over allocation of water in the Ken-Betwa river linkage project between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh has been resolved at a recent meeting chaired by Union minister Nitin Gadkari in Delhi, say sources.

 Gadkari, who took over as water resources minister on September 3, had invited Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh   and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath for a meeting to settle the issue last Monday. “Though an MoU has not been signed yet, both states have agreed to go by the 2005 agreement signed by the then chief ministers,” said an officer who was part of the meeting.
 
 The project agreement between the states is likely to be signed by the secretaries of the water resources department in a few days. It has also been decided that Panna will get a share of water for irrigating 70,000 hectares of land.
 
 An IAS officer, who accompanied CM Chouhan to the meeting, tried to pitch an old agreement for MP’s cause, but the Union minister wasn’t pleased. “Gadkari got angry and asked the officer to not to talk like a politician. The officer remained quiet after that,” said an official, asking not to be named.
 
 Apart from sharing of water, there was also apparently disagreement between the two states over finance and execution of the project. It has been decided that the Centre will bear 90% of the project cost, while MP and UP will have to share the rest, said sources.
 
 Earlier UP was pressing for 2,200 MCM water from Ken River as its share, and MP was opposing it on the grounds that the initial deal was for 1,200 MCM only.
 
 The PMO had to intervene in July-end and asked both states to end the stalemate, but to no avail. After Gadkari got additional charge of water resources, he tackled the Ken-Betwa imbroglio on a priority basis.
 
 Both rivers originate in MP and flow into Uttar Pradesh. The Rs 17,000-crore project got all the clearances but is stuck over a sharing of water between the two states. When Chouhan and Adityanath were asked by the PMO to resolve the stalemate, Madhya Pradesh government had dug up a 40-year-old agreement — signed during the Shyama Charan Shukla government — to say that the deal was to give only 1,200 million cubic metre (MCM) water to UP, which wants 2,200 MCM.
 
 The brainchild of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and a dream project of PM Narendra Modi, the Ken-Betwa project involves transferring 591 MCM surplus water from the Ken basin through a 231.45-km canal to Betwa.
 
 
