GURUGRAM: The   a new turn on Thursday when one of the six Independents, who were paraded before the media a day ago by minister Rao Inderjit Singh, returned to the the  . On Wednesday, Inderjit had claimed that all the six Independents had joined the  , following which the party attained majority in the civic body.

 The party miserably fell short of the halfway mark of 18 in the 35-member House as it managed to secure only 14 seats in the election that was held on September 24, and now will have to rely on Independents for bailout.
 
 “The Independent candidate from ward 12 Naveen Dahiya was among the six Independent poll winners who had sided with Rao Inderjit on Wednesday. In fact, he also went with him all the way to Delhi to meet BJP state in-charge Anil Jain. However, after receiving a call he decided to return to Gurgaon without going inside the BJP headquarters. For the past two days, he is spotted at the rival camp,” said a BJP leader requesting anonymity.
 
 He also claimed that there could be a couple of more Independents who could switch sides in the coming days. “Of the remaining five Independents, there are some candidates who have the ambition to become the mayor or deputies. However, Rao Inderjit had reiterated that the mayor should be someone who had won on the party symbol. This means that they would not get chance to be the mayor if they remain with him and are therefore having second thoughts,” he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Naveen Dahiya said he was neither with Rao Inderjit nor Rao Narbir. “The reason why I came back to Gurgaon without meeting senior leaders at the BJP headquarters was because I received news midway that someone in my village had passed away, and therefore I rushed back. However, the truth is that I am neither with Rao Inderjit nor Rao Narbir. I am only with BJP,” he said.
 
 The Inderjit camp though maintains that he is still with them. While the Gurgaon MP wants Madhu Azad as the mayor, his rival Rao Narbir wants Sheetal Bagri to occupy the post. However, there are two other candidates — Mithlesh Kumari (ward 1) and Rajni Sahni (ward 17) — who are from the scheduled caste category and qualify the criteria to become the next mayor.
 
 Inderjit, the Gurgaon MP, sent a strong message to the Khattar government when he brought over six Independent councillors to the BJP fold, handing the party a majority in the MCG. 
 
 Two of the six had been suspended by BJP for contesting against the party's wishes.
 
