Gurgaon: A month after they turned away a gang-rape survivor in labour, the apathy of Mewat’s Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College and Hospital, situated on the outskirts of Nuh in Nalhar of Mewat district, resulted in another loss of life, this time of one of their own staff. 

 On Tuesday, a nurse, Pramila Yadav (35), died of excessive bleeding after she developed post-delivery complications, allegedly because there was no doctor available to perform an emergency operation that could have saved her life. On Wednesday, around 500 para-medical staff of the hospital went on strike demanding action against the doctors responsible.
 
 On April 20, TOI had reported how a gang-rape survivor in labour, who is a mental patient, was turned away by the hospital on the pretext there was no doctor to perform a Caesarean delivery. 
 
 The woman later delivered a stillborn in Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital.
 
 At around 3.15pm on Tuesday, Yadav was admitted at the hospital for delivery. At 3.30pm, a girl was born to Yadav through normal delivery. Two junior resident doctors, Dr Sadhna and Dr Mulayam, were attending to her case. 
 
 According to the staff, at 4pm, Yadav developed post-partum complications with excessive internal bleeding. She needed immediate surgery to stop the bleeding, but since resident doctors are not supposed to perform surgeries, she was left unattended. Yadav passed away around 5.30pm. One of the protesting staff said junior doctors gave her seven units of blood. 
 
 Sources said a senior gynaecologist was supposed to be on duty, but was not present in the hospital at the time. “She was contacted, but said she could not return,” a source claimed. “Most doctors live in Gurgaon, although there are living quarters here. If this is their attitude with the staff, what can we say to the public,” Ombir Pradhan, a para-medic at the hospital told TOI.
 
 Giving in to the demand of protesters, the administration has handed over the probe to sub-divisional magistrate of Nuh. “The hospital has three gynaecologists. One of them is assigned duties during the ongoing medical exams. The remaining two deal with over 200 patients every day. We will probe into the matter and see what went wrong,” said SDM, Nuh.
 
 Yadav was posted at the hospital for the past four years. She is survived by two daughters, the infant and a 14-year-old, and her husband, who works in the army.
 
 
