BENGALURU:  , a farmer from Siliguri, north Bengal, arrived in Bengaluru with the hope of getting his acute brain and kidney problem cured at the earliest. But the 27-year-old and his family had a traumatic experience as they were shifted from one hospital to another, and spent the entire day on the streets with no food or water. 

  After failing to get admission to the National Institute of   and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) and   as he had a multiple organ disorder, Biltu is now undergoing treatment at   on Old Airport Road. A kidney patient, Biltu had suffered a stroke recently. 
 
  "We'd heard that Nimhans provides quality care at a reasonable price and came to Bengaluru for that. We can't afford treatment at private hospitals. We reached the city at 8.30am and went straight to Nimhans, but they said it was a multiple organ disorder and his kidney needed immediate care. They referred us to Victoria Hospital," said Alok Sen, Biltu's elder brother. 
 
  Nimhans director Dr B N Gangadhar said: "My officials are not aware of any such incident. However, we usually do not admit patients with multi-organ disorder, and refer them to a hospital that specifically treats such issues." 
 
  The family claimed they had a harrowing experience at Victoria Hospital. They were allegedly made to run from one department to another since the case was too complicated. "We spent more than two hours knocking the doors of four departments. My brother did not have food and was under the scorching sun till we were able to admit him to Manipal Hospitals by evening," Alok added. 
 
  Dr  , director at the Institute of Nephro Urology (INU), Victoria Hospital, that caters to patients with kidney problems, said: "After watching the news on TV channels, I enquired with my officials. They said no patient by that name registered with us...'' 
 
  Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, said: " Biltu has a severe kidney problem that leads to high blood pressure and bleeding in the brain. He is on conservative treatment at the emergency as he is extremely dehydrated. Once he responds to treatment, we will start dialysis." 
 
 
