Gurgaon: Citizens woke up to a wet morning on Thursday as monsoon clouds triggered sporadic   across the city during the small hours, bringing more trouble, than relief, for office-goers.

  areas witnessed moderate rainfall while old Gurgaon, sectors 56 and 45, among others, reported light precipitation. Though there was not any report of major   in any part of the city, the rain slowed down the traffic, causing inconvenience to students and office-goers.
 
 Commuters complained about excessive snarls near Vatika Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk and on Carterpuri road during the rush hours. The Gurgaon police took to Twitter to alert people about waterlogging near Manesar that chocked the vehicular movement on NH-8. Jams were also reported near Mahipalpur, which held up vehicles coming from Delhi side. 
 
 “Today, I left home around 8am and reached office at 10.15am,” said Sushanshu Yadav, a Delhi resident who works in Udyog Vihar. Vipin Solanki, a resident of Palam Vihar, said, “By the time we woke up, there was no rain. But, when we moved out, we witnessed wet streets and slow traffic.”
 
 The showers also sparked power cuts with residents from DLF 1-4, South City, Sectors 14, 21 and 45 complained about feeder breakdowns in their areas. Many office-goers claimed that they got late as there was no water and power at home in the morning.
 
 However, discom officials said the disruptions were minor in nature. “All the feeders are functioning properly currently,” KC Aggarwal, superintendent, new Gurgaon circle, said in the afternoon.
 
 DHBVN executive engineer Sachin Yadav told TOI there were some minor disruptions in the morning. “They were rectified in an hour or so,” he said.
 
  officials said the city recorded 6.4 mm of rainfall in the day, reducing the maximum temperature from 38 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 37 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The minimum temperature, however, saw a better slide — from 30 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 25 degrees Celsius on Thursday.   predicted more precipitation this week. “There will be more thunderstorms, coupled with sporadic rain, on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, we may witness better/moderate rainfall,” said an IMD official.
 
