A few days ago, the   Limited launched its 2017 desk calendar. 

 However, it is no ordinary date checker but a potential ‘garden in the making’! With seeds of various plants embedded in each of its sheets, the handmade calendar has been made solely of recyclable materials. Once a month is over, all you need to do is tear off the sheet and throw into the soil, where it would germinate various indigenous vegetables and flowers, such as sunflower, tomato, and red amaranthus! Not surprisingly, the people are lauding the unique calendar. Kochi Times lists out similar innovative ‘seed-bearers’ that had won hearts in the recent past:
 
 
 
 A pen that would sprout leaves, branches and fruits once its role as a ‘writer’ is over. The dream of environment lovers to use pens in a smart and eco-friendly manner was materialised by a Kerala-based group of environment lovers called Akriti, with the launch of the ‘With Love’ pens. ‘With’ in Malayalam means seed and true to its name, the pen can be sown after use. Made of upcycled, recycled and economised paper and other materials, it has the seed of an Agasthya (Sesbania grandiflora) tree at its bottom end. On World Environment Day 2016, the pens were handed out to a group of school children in the State who have also been using the pen.
 
 
 
 The Ganesh Chathurthi festival is always a nightmare for environmental activists owing to its aftermath - large numbers of paper mache ‘Ganeshas’ in the waterbodies. 
 
 Last year, however, several groups across the country made news, for giving a twist to the popular Ganapathy idols. Instead of using environmentally hazardous materials for the idols which in turn pollute the water bodies they are immersed into, the new Ganapathy was way cooler and ‘pregnant’ with something useful and helpful for the environment. Termed Tree Ganesha or Green Ganesha, the idols were eco-friendly, made of red soil and organic fertilisers, with seeds as its base. Even when you aren’t planning to immerse the idol, you can use water to disintegrate the Ganesha, which would turn into soil that nurtures the seeds. 
 
 
 
 Pencils made of wood or plastic might soon be a thing of the past, if these ec-friendly pencils win more of hearts. Made from used newspapers, the pencils, called Eco-Me was launched last year in Coimbatore by an environment enthusiast. They are made of old newspapers and chemical-free, waterproof glue and are thus safe for kids, who use it like any normal pencil.
 
 
 
 No, we aren’t talking about the commonly used rudraksha chain, but a variety of pretty neck pieces and bangles made by a group in Trichy. The necklaces, anklets and earrings are made by stringing together rice kernels, various medicinal plants, coral tree seeds and canna seeds. The seeds used are not poisonous or perishable, and belong to the widely available category of seeds, consciously avoiding the endangered varieties.
 
 
