NEW DELHI: Friday being a holiday due to Shivratri and with a long weekend ahead, North Campus wore a largely deserted look. However, the calm was an uneasy one in the light of recent skirmishes on the campus. Some students staying in paying guest accommodations chose to shift to “safer” environs — moving in at friends’ places — while others took advantage of the long weekend to visit their native towns.

 North Campus colleges were closed for the day. Khalsa College, in the eye of a storm over its decision to cancel a street play event, however, went ahead with the Gully Cricket competition, a part of its annual fest. Most students stayed away, though.
 
 There were rumours aplenty to keep the pot boiling. There was heavy police presence in the area. Acting on reports that AISA was planning a meet, police set up a security perimeter around Arts Faculty. “We were told that AISA is organising a public meeting at 3:30 pm,” said an officer on duty. But AISA later confirmed that no such event was planned.
 
 Rudra Bhushan, a student of  , said many of his friends were worried about their safety and had moved to “safer” locations. “Rumours are floating around about threat calls to students,” he said. Bhushan said many of them were unsure about rejoining college on Monday. Saher Zahra, a first-year student at Miranda college, said they were taking things as they came. “We hope that things normalise soon,” she said. 
 
 Teachers are worried too. Nishant Kumar, assistant professor of political Science at Dyal Singh College, said such incidents might have long-term repercussions on the university’s psyche. “There is anxiety and fear among students because there is an attempt to put things into binaries. There is no space for violence in a university,” he said.
 
 A law faculty student, however, said the incident hadn’t affected them that much. “This is not the first such incident of violence at DU,” he said. DUTA, meanwhile, adopted a resolution, condemning the violence at Ramjas College.
 
 
