THANE:  , these words will be heard from the terrace and balconies of most of housing complexes in the city as the fun-filled festival of   will be celebrated on Saturday. Residents have been flocking to stores and stalls selling   in various hues and patterns. 

 While the usual kites adorning cartoon characters, sport stars and Bollywood actors are in, kites with pictures of Prime Minister   are selling like hot cakes this season.
 
 The streets of Gokhale Road and Jambli Naka have been lined with stalls selling a variety of kites to meet the huge demand. While some children came along with friends to check out kites that had pictures of their favourite cartoons and film actors, others got their parents along to get the best deal this Sankranti. 
 
 “Kite flying has always been a family affair for me. As a child, our entire family would get together on our terrace in Ahmedabad and fly kites. Now also I keep the same tradition and I do the same with my daughter. However, instead of the traditional kite, we purchase kites with her favourite actress on it. We also purchased one with the prime minister’s picture,” said Bhaskar Mewada (42), a Thane resident.
 
 Meanwhile, 10-year-old Siddhesh Pawar rummaged through the entire stretch of kite stall at Jambli Market and finally settled on two kites which had pictures of Batman and Superman on them.
 
 “My brother and I watch cartoons together and even wear capes and pretend to be superheroes. We fly our kites and compete with our society friends every year. This year, we will be Batman and Superman,” Pawar said.
 
 From tini-tiny ones to the giant size kites, shops across the city have stocked up with a variety of kites to meet the soaring demand.
 
 “Most of the stock has been brought from Gujarat, while some are from China as the former has a much more traditional feel. The Chinese variety is made out of thin fabric and they fly just as high as those made of paper,’’ said Kamlesh Jain, a store owner at Jambli Market.
 
 While kites with pictures of Bollywood actors and cartoons continue to dominate, miniature plain kites have also entered the list of favourites as many are decorating their windows as well as flying these kites. The prices of kites start from Rs15 and go up to Rs 30, depending on the size and shape. They are available in packets of 60 and 100 as well. Priced at over Rs 500 are the big kites that resemble gigantic eagles and falcons. Depending on their size and look, at times they can run up to a few thousands as well, said a shopkeeper.
 
 
