PUNE: The high-octane campaign for Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad elections, billed as a major test for NCP leader Ajit Pawar and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, ended on Sunday. 

 The campaign script, as it panned out, had the   and Sena indulging in mudslinging and at the same time slamming the NCP for ‘inefficient’ rule. All the party stalwarts descended on both the cities appealing to voters to hand over the reins of both civic bodies to them. They spoke about national issues, but none were able to provide a comprehensive vision for a rapidly developing metropolitan region.
 
 For the first time in the history of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the NCP is finding the going tough. The BJP is giving it a hard time, but the Shiv Sena’s decision to part ways with its 25-year-old partner has changed the tone and the terms of the campaign. A war-of-words between the ruling partners in the state government provided a breathing space for the NCP which hopes to retain power with a division of votes between the Sena and the BJP.
 
 The NCP has been in power in   (PMC) and   (PCMC) for ten years. In Pune, it has ruled with the help of the Congress and in Pimpri Chinchwad it has got a full majority.
 
 The BJP has emerged as a strong contender for power in both civic bodies with its best-ever performance in the assembly and   elections. The BJP won 26 seats in Pune and just three in Pimpri Chinchwad in the 2012 civic polls. However, the party which is in power in the state and at the Centre has attracted leaders from the NCP and other parties. Not surprisingly, the BJP in PCMC is crowded with faces of former NCP leaders.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has expressed his confidence that the BJP will `comfortably win' Pune civic polls while it will give it a scare in PCMC. But Pawar is confident of retaining power in both civic bodies. Political pundits predict that the BJP and NCP will have a neck-and-neck fight in Pune and BJP will get a respectable figure in Pimpri Chinchwad, if it does not come to power. 
 
 Fadnavis was the BJP’s face during   as local leaders failed to galvanize the cadre and workers. Guardian minister Girish Bapat, seven Pune MLAs and an MP had to rely on the chief minister to canvas for the party. NCP gained strength from Sharad Pawar’s active participation in the campaign. He played a significant role in holding together the campaign. 
 
 No big Shiv Sena leader or cabinet minister campaigned for the party as Uddhav was the only star campaigner. Three former chief ministers – Narayan Rane,   and Prithviraj Chavan campaigned for the Congress, but failed to revitalize the city units in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. 
 
 Raj Thackeray addressed a rally in Pune, but he largely left his candidates on high ground, forcing them to campaign on their own.
 
