JAIPUR: Pre-Conception Pre-Natal Diagnostic Technique’s (PCPNDT)   took a decision to increase the incentives under   from Rs2 lakh to Rs2.5 lakh in a meeting headed by   Kalicharan Saraf on Friday. 

 Mukhbir Yojna was launched in the state in 2012. When it was launched, the government had announced that a person providing confirmed information about the involvement of a doctor or a medical staff in sex determination will get a reward of Rs 25,000. But over the past five years, the reward has now increased up to Rs2.5lakh. At present, the reward is Rs2 lakh. In Rs2 lakh reward,   (informer) has share of Rs80,000, pregnant woman (decoy) gets Rs80,000 and Rs40,000 for the person who accompany the decoy (informer) in the decoy operation. Now, as it has increased to Rs2.5 lakh, now informer will get Rs1lakh, decoy (pregnant woman) will get Rs1 lakh and person who accompany pregnant woman in decoy operation will get Rs50,000. 
 
 The Mukhbir Yojna was launched as a reaction of Census report 2011 which showed that over the past 10 years, the child sex ratio (0-6 years) in Rajasthan had gone down by 21 points from 909 to 888. Now, by increasing incentives for informers, who provide information regarding doctor or any gang involved in sex selection, the health department is encouraging people (informers) to get more inputs on doctors involving in sex selection activities. 
 
 State appropriate authority (PCPNDT Act) Navin Jain said, “Till date, 27 decoy operations have already been conducted in 2016-17.”
 
 According to the PCPNDT cell officials, after the incentives increased to Rs2 lakh, they had received more information on doctors involved in sex selection activities, which resulted into 30 decoy operations. 
 
 The officials said that increasing the incentives has helped them receiving more information. Now, they hope that reward increased from Rs2 lakh to Rs2.5 lakh, they will get even more information. The officials said that they need community’s participation to fight against the social evil of female foeticide, which is why, Mukhbir Yojna was launched in 2012. 
 
 On the basis of information, the PCPNDT cell officials get, they conduct decoy operation after verifying the information to nab the accused red handed. For conducting decoy operation, the PCPNDT cell officials require funds. Officials said that a tleast Rs30,000 is required for one decoy operation. Now, state’s supervisory board has decided to create a special fund for decoy operations. Earlier, the PCPNDT officials had to ask the National Health Mission for funds to conduct decoy operations. Now, special fund for decoy operation will make it easy for the PCPNDT cell officials to conduct such action against doctors. 
 
 Box:Jaipur: PCPNDT cell team headed by PCPNDT incharge Raghuveer Singh conducted a decoy operation in Bundi and arrested a radiologist Dr Abdul Rahim Ansari for allegedly conducting sex selection activities on Friday. The cell has also arrested his agent nurse Rukmani Devi and Parwati panchal. PCPNDT officials said that they had been receiving information about a sonography centre in Bundi for the past 13 months.
 
 
