Panaji: Sports, yet again, has taken a back seat to politics. One can’t escape the galling feeling when you visit the Indoor Stadium, Campal. Instead of viewing some serious   or   talent, one is greeted by the hustle and bustle of activity relating to the forthcoming state elections.
 
  Gone are the sleek tables that has done much to spawn a clutch of table tennis youngsters who have done Goa proud in recent times. Instead, rows of nondescript tables, desks and chairs shuffled around amid staff who look anything but sportive greet the eye.
  
  The short shrift that sport has suffered has irked no one more than  , president of the Goa Table Tennis Association, who is upbeat on sending a veterans team to the national championship in Pune starting January 17.
  
  “We have been deprived of training now, having to make do with tables wherever we can find them,” the 12-time Goa champion in the seventies and eighties lamented. “We haven’t been able to train for almost two months now,” he added. “Surely, there are numerous other places that could serve the purpose,” he added.
  
  Hillary Fernandes and his teammates who will travel to Kochi for the Indian Masters (Veterans) badminton tournament starting on March 1, also feel slighted. “The situation has affected our preparation and we’re not sure when the facility would be made available as election counting will be done on March 4,” Fernandes said.
  
   , Executive Director,  , however, appears to have thrown in the towel. “Sports is part and parcel of the Government machinery,” he said. “We can’t complain and it’s up to all of us in sport to bear it and manage,” he said.
  
  According to Prabhudesai, the Campal facility isn’t the only one affected. Nor is the predicament sports find itself in anything unusual.
  
  “It happens every elections,” he asserted.
  
  “There are plans to use the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium (Taleigao Plateau) to house CRPF jawans who will do duty during the polls,” he revealed. “The Fatorda stadium and the facility at Quepem will also be used for election-related activity,” he added.
  
  “It’s the election commissioner’s diktat,” he concluded.
  
  And that’s game, set and match for Politics.
