PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The club of   seems to have the majority in the newly elected  .
The assets declared by the corporators shows that 64% of those elected have assets running in crores of rupees while the remaining have declared their assets in lakhs, with the exception of three coporators who have declared assets of less than a lakh.
 
 Of the 128 corporators, over 82 of them have declared their assets ranging from one crore to over 50 crore. The two richest corporators, Sandeep Waghere from Pimprigaon (ward 21 ward) and Yogesh Behl from Sant Tukaramnagar (ward 20), have reached that top position after getting a significant boost in their assets since the first time they stood for civic elections.
 
 Waghere's assets jumped from Rs 1.35 crore (he contested 2012 municipal elections) to Rs 87.44 crore. Similarly , Behl's assets jumped from 9.05 crore (since he contested the last elections) to 83.84 crore.
 
 Corporator Swati Kate, elected from Phugewadi-Da podi apparently has no declared financial assets at all. However, Kate had contested the last elections in 2012 had declared her financial assets then at Rs 3.5 lakh. Kamal Gholap, who contested from   has no schooling, but financial assets of Rs 2.81 crore.Many corporators who have passed standard 5 to standard 10 have assets of over Rs 1crore to Rs 15 crore. When it come to educational qualifications, only eight eight corporators are post-graduates and 28 are graduates. As many as 35 corporators have studied up to class 5 to 9. A total of 23 corporators have passed standard 10, there are 26 who have passed standard twelve. One did no schooling at all and another did not submit educational qualifications stating that she was a `professional.' The candidates have submitted their affidavits to the election commission mentioning the assets, education, and crime records if any. Affidavits of five winning candidates are not on the election commission website.
 
 Amol Deshpande of the Pimpri Chinchwad Citizens Forum said while educational qualifications are important, some may have left education for various reasons. “We cannot generalize the kind of work a corporator may do based solely on educational qualifications. Corporators who have passed up to standard ten have been good leaders,“ he said.
 
