CHENNAI: After taking over the reins of the party,   general secretary   has now set tongues wagging about the chief minister’s chair being her next stop.

 Sasikala has reasserted herself as the boss in both the party and the government through a series of changes in the past couple of days —re-induction of some members in the party leadership, shunting out three bureaucrats from chief minister’s office and convening a legislators’ meeting on Sunday. Some insiders, however, say   is still testing the waters and may not yet take the top post in the government.
 
 Fort St George, the seat of power in  , is abuzz with murmurs of Sasikala’s reassertion with adviser to government Sheela Balakrishnan and CM’s secretaries K N Venkatramanan and A Ramalingam – all handpicked by the late J   – leaving the CMO within 12 hours since Friday night. Almost simultaneously, a message was sent to MLAs to attend a meeting on Sunday, ostensibly to discuss the upcoming civic polls and take stock of the projects announced by the Jayalalithaa regime.
 
 “There is talk in the party that she may take over as the CM, maybe as early as Monday, but she appears to be just gauging things,” said a senior leader. A few other leaders said Sasikala is closely watching the situation as OPS appears to be settling down in the CM’s chair and Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa Jayakumar is planning a state-wide tour to meet AIADMK cadres.
 
 Amajor shake-up is likely in the government as many IAS and IPS officials have been in the same post for many years, some for more than five years. Sasikala’s husband M Natarajan is pushing for his friend and retired IAS officer A Panneerselvam’s candidature for the post of officer on special duty. He had occupied the same post for a brief while in 2011 when Jayalalithaa returned to power.
 
 The growing acceptance of Panneerselvam in the bureaucracy also causes heartburns in the Sasikala camp. The “Sasikala for CM” chorus, which peaked after she took over the party reins, had mellowed down for a while. Her photographs were defaced in various parts of the state, shocking her supporters.
 
 
