PUNE: A   has restrained Pune Municipal Corporation from issuing any fresh sanctions or permissions, plinth check, occupation or completion certificates to a mega housing project in   till the final disposal of a civil suit. 

 The court also restrained the project developer from carrying out further construction of the buildings as per the revised sanction plans — by way of commencement certificates issued by the PMC on March 20, 2012, and May 22, 2013 — till a final decision is made. 
 
 As of now, five buildings — A1 to A4 & B1 — of the 13 parking-plus-11-storeyed buildings which were originally envisaged were completed. ‘B4’, is nearing completion. 
 
 Civil judge junior division A A Pandule at the PMC court stopped short of directing a “stop work” to the entire work at this interim stage. “There are so many incidental works which a developer has to complete other than construction. Hence, they can carry out the same on their own risk. So also, this court cannot give an injunction to the developer from applying to various authorities. They can carry out the same on their own risk. Definitely, all these acts are subject to final decision,” judge Pandule said in the order issued on July 4. 
 
 The court, however, held that the balance of convenience lay in favour of the plaintiff-society, as an “irreparable loss” would be caused to the rights of its members if an injunction were not granted. “The purpose of the suit will be frustrated if further construction is allowed to change the very nature of the suit property,” the judge observed. 
 
 Senior lawyer  , who represented the developer, told TOI, “The decision is a fit case for us to move in an appeal before the district court.”
 
 Jain said, “There are several issues ... Most of the grievances were dealt with previously by the Pune district consumer court which had directed the developer to demolish the wall but, had held that all promised amenities have been provided to the society. The state consumer commission has granted a stay on the district consumer court’s decision.”
 
 Lawyer  , who appeared for the society, said, “A private criminal complaint was moved a year ago before the   which had directed the police to record statements of the flat purchasers and the developer and submit a report on whether a prima facie criminal offence is made out. The police have recorded flat purchasers’ statements, but we haven’t heard so far on whether the developer’s statement was recorded, nor has any report reached the Cantonment Court.” 
 
