I am a married woman and during my courtship period, there were some misunderstandings between my   and my parents. And ever since then, they don't like meeting each other. My in-laws don't talk to my parents and don't even want to visit their place. How can I resolve this issue? 
 

 
 
 
 A strained relationship between in-laws and parents can be a very difficult situation to be in and it seems to be causing you some distress. Perhaps you feel caught between trying to avoid offending your in-laws on the one hand and still wanting to remain connected with your parents on the other. But it is their conflict and misunderstanding, not yours.
 
 Avoid having to choose between your in-laws and your parents. Until they resolve things to make sure you spend quality time with your parents when possible. And don’t let this come in the way of building your rapport with your in-laws too.
 
 When one gets married, they also became part of another family with its own set of expectations. One needs to recognize and respect those—within limits. This attitude will help both the spouses embrace each other’s parent; as they are connected through genetics, history, and complex psychological dynamics. 
 
 Thus, however conflicting it is, your husband will need to ease into the relationship with your parents for you to feel integrated. Express and share with your husband how this conflict makes you feel torn between all your important relationships and how it matters to you. Don’t let this erode your marriage. Strengthen your relationship with your spouse first, both of you’ll need to be aligned for you to extend any care and comfort to either side of parents.
 
 Then I would suggest working on building a bridge between your husband and your parents. Do not insist on visiting your parent’s house, meet outside in neutral places. Impositions don’t resolve conflict, but talking and sharing a meal in a non-conflicting environment can ease the anger or hurt that he may be carrying.
 
 Once the rapport is built with the husband, together both of you can help your in-laws resolve their misunderstanding and slowly get to know each other by setting reasonable boundaries. Respect these limits and avoid excessive intrusion until the rapport is established.
 
 As they get to know each other, they will slowly let down their guards, let go off of their egos and learn to co-exist and accept each other’s differences. Marriage only marks the start of the upcoming interactions, they will need to co-exist through occasions, festivals, important events and grandchildren later; thus the sooner they resolve the misunderstanding the better it is.
 
 These conflicts can be resolved but it does require operating with patience, kindness, gentleness, and respect. In the end, even if your husband, in-laws and your parents don’t fall in love with each other, they will still need to show respect and warm hospitality to co-exist.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
