NEW DELHI: Getting through the entrance exam of the premier   is a gruelling process that necessitates   for all but the brightest of aspirants. But among the 2.2 lakh candidates who will undertake the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced on May 21 are a few hundred who belong to families that cannot afford the costly   If they are still able to dream of cracking the second step of the admission test, it is because non-profit groups like Dakshana and Avanti or   student groups assist them with free and customised tuitions.

 Uniquely, students with the experience of having crossed the JEE-Advanced hurdle are now among those facilitating the engineering dreams of the underprivileged. Nagmani and six of his friends were inspired to start an outreach programme after listening to a guest lecturer, Dr Anurupa Roy, suggesting that students of IIT-Roorkee could help disadvantaged students in the neighbourhood in their regular studies and in preparing for  . “Seven of us, who are also involved in the National Service Scheme, decided to conduct tutorials for such students on our campus,” said the 3rd-year civil engineering student.
 
 Equipped with resource materials from an NGO, Nagmani and company started tutoring Class XII students from September last year. Success was almost immediate: one of them has qualified for JEE-Advanced.
 
 There are others who are more institutional in their approach. Non-profit Dakshana not only helped 451 underprivileged students (98% of the batch) excel in JEE-Main 2017, but also put Abhilash Kar and Prashant Sishodia in the top 100 at the 23rd and 63rd spots. However, for Colonel RK Sharma, CEO of Dakshana Foundation, the highlight was seeing 91 of its 98 girl trainees qualifying for JEE-Advanced.
 
 “The percentage of girls to boys that we coach at Dakshana each year is three times the percentage of girls who finally study in the IITs,” pointed out Sharma. “The success of the Dakshana girls will surely encourage other girls to contemplate studying in the IITs, which are still considered male bastions.”
 
 At Dakshana campuses across India (in Delhi, there is no campus, but classes are held in Navodaya Vidyalayas), the candidates are provided free coaching, food and accommodation. Dakshana offers another scholarship programme over two years in collaboration with Navodaya Vidyalayas across India under an agreement with the union ministry of human resource development.
 
 Like Dakshana, Avanti Fellows’ strike rate too is the envy of any private coaching institute that charges lakhs of rupees to equip students to pass the tough exam. Of the 202 fellows from 14 Navodaya Vidyalayas and Delhi government schools, 118 have qualified this year for JEE-Advanced.
 
 Krishna Ramkumar, co-founder of Avanti, which is supported by the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation and by funds provided by corporate companies, focused on the uniqueness of their “peer learning approach through practice”. “A teacher take up 30% of the class time for lectures and the rest is spent mentoring peer learning,” Ramkumar explained. “We also provide 400 hours of video content that covers the entire syllabus.” It is an efficient system, given the results it is able to generate. 
 
 
