NAGPUR: The Centre has finally approved the proposal of ministry of   (MoR) to set up a   (RDA) as an independent regulatory body.

 Now, RDA will take all decisions regarding passenger fare and pricing of services commensurate with costs, measures for enhancement of non-fare revenue, protection of consumer interests, encouraging market development, creating positive environment for investment, promoting efficient resource allocation, benchmarking of service standards, measures for absorption of new technologies and human resource development and provide framework for non-discriminatory open access to the dedicated freight corridor infrastructure.
 
 “Setting up of RDA is one of the biggest reforms in rail sector. The move will improve services offered to passengers, provide comfort to investors in rail sector and enhance transparency as well as accountability,” officials said.
 
 The need to have a rail regulator has been emphasized by various committees since 2001. In the 2015-16 railway budget, Union railway minister   had announced that for purpose of orderly development of infrastructure enabling competition and protection of customer interest, it is important to have a regulation mechanism independent of the service provider.
 
 Further, it was proposed to set up a mechanism for making regulations, setting performance standards and determining tariff. As a demonstration of true participative governance, the railway ministry had prepared a concept paper of rail regulator named RDA in December 2015 and sought comments from all industry and passenger bodies.
 
 RDA will act within the parameters of the Railway Act, 1989, and undertake tariff determination including framing principles, recommendations of tariff setting, principles for classification of commodities, framing principles for social service obligation and guidelines for track access charge.
 
 RDA will ensure fair play and level playing field for stakeholder investment in railways, propose modifications and send suggestions on reference made by the ministry regarding policies for private investment. It will ensure reasonable safeguards to PPP investors and resolve dispute regarding future concession agreements.
 
 RDA will also set efficiency and performance standards. The authority will have a chairman and three members and can engage experts from relevant areas. The chairman and members of RDA will have a 5-year term. An initial corpus of Rs50 crore will be provided for setting up the organization.
 
 RDA will be an independent body with a separate budget. Independence is ensured through separate budget, appointment and removal process. The appointment of chairman and members will be done by the central government from the panel of names recommended by the search & selection committee consisting of cabinet secretary as chairman, chairman of  , secretary of DoPT, and chairman of any regulatory body of the Centre nominated by the cabinet secretary.
 
