KOLKATA: One of the country's most prestigious excavations that can change the history of ancient Bengal has come to a halt, thanks to a disagreement between the state   and the   ( ).

 The excavation promises to take the history of Bengal back to perhaps even earlier than what was being pitched so long.However, since January , work could not start on the next phase of excavation that would help put a stamp on its antiquity.
 
 A Buddhist vihara is gradually being unearthed at   mari, two kilometres from   in West Midnapur. Potsherds, terracotta and bronze Buddha and Yakshini figurines,   and silver coins have so far been unearthed at the site. State archaeologists were trying to date the vihara to the fifth century, the post-Gupta and pre-Pala phase, when Bengal was ruled by Raja Samachar Dev . This phase of Bengal's history is shrouded in mystery and hence, the excavation is being observed with so much interest by historians.
 
 Though it has withheld permission to re-start the work, ASI officials conceded that   is one of the most prestigious sites of the country and said the antiquity of the vihara might date back to the Mauryan times by the time the excavation is completed.
 
 The ASI said it's peeved by the fact that the state archaeology department has not furnished reports of the excavations done so far. ASI is also reportedly unhappy with the techniques being used.
 
 “We want the excavation to happen but cannot given permission till the state archaeology department furnishes its report,“ said P K Mishra, who has retired as DG (east) of ASI and is continuing as the adviser.
 
 An archaeologist at the state archaeology department said, “We have furnished the report.“
 
 The state archaeology department is part of the information and culture department that is handled by CM   herself. Information and culture secretary , Atri Bhattacharya, said, “The footprints of Mauryan civilization in Bengal is still inconclusive. We are waiting eagerly for the excavation to end.“
 
