BHOPAL: CAG report has highlighted yet another plight of police department. This time, it is related to washroom and retiring room facilities for women police officials and personnel across the state. Out of 365 police stations (PS) and 189 outposts (OP) in selected districts, separate retiring rooms for women police personnel are available in just 162 PSs while only 170 PSs/OPs have separate  . Moreover, PS/OP lack basic amenities such as toilet and rest rooms for women personnel. 

 In course of interview, 48 out of 50 women police personnel cited unavailability of separate toilets and/or separate retiring rooms to cause inconvenience while having adverse impact on their work and making them insecure.
 
 A model design of urban, semi-urban and rural police stations as approved by director general of police, that provision for separate toilet facilities for women police personnel, has been made. However, the provision for women’s rest room was earmarked only for urban police station from 2014-15.
 
 When TOI talked to women constables, they narrated how they have been suffering for a long time.  , constable at   for past many years, told TOI, “This is a long-standing problem for all the constables posted across police stations. We have same toilets for males and females, so we mostly avoid using them.”
 
 “If our houses are nearby, we take 5-10 minutes’ break to go home or to a friend’s place for using washroom, else we wait till lunch,” she added.
 
 Constable   posted at Crime Branch said, “We have same toilets and there is no solution to it. We have to use it which makes us feel uncomfortable.”
 
 Other constables posted in other police stations said, “If there is a female thana in-charge, then we are lucky to have washroom for women because they understand our problem. However, male TIs do not understand our plight.”
 
 According to ministry of home affairs, it was announced in 2014 that provision has been made for suitable toilet facilities for women police personnel in police stations, outposts and barracks as well as a rest room in every police station.
 
 However, home department additional chief secretary, in his reply to the CAG report said that provision for separate   was made for buildings during 2011-16. In compliance to the direction of government of Madhya Pradesh (September 2016), a detailed project report for separate room for women complainants in each PS was being prepared and lady personnel would use these rooms. Moreover, provision for separate washroom would be made in all new PSs in the future.
 
