When it rains, it pours comfort food in  . And what better combo than a plate of steaming, golden khichudi and ghee with a combination of bhaja, labda and chutney? As the skies grew dark, CT walked around studiopara to find the men who cook the best khichudi and how our stars enjoy the monsoon special menu.

 
 Studio food caterer  , who is currently working on  's film, said there's huge demand for khichudi every time it rains. “I mix moong dal, masur dal and chholar dal for a special khichudi. The menu also includes labda made with seasonal veggies, fritters and papad. The chicken khichudi is also in great demand during the monsoon,“ said Ganesh. Though the usual meals comprise riceroti, egg kosha, chicken curry and one or two veg items, planning for khichudi takes up more time than making it. “Production managers decide on the menu a day in advance. But when it pours in the morning, we usually have requests to prepare khichudi. The decision has to be taken by 11 am, as it becomes difficult after that,“ Ganesh added. Ganesh said usually film artistes like to have the same food as the unit, while television actors “carry fruits“ with them. The reason, he said, is the difference in the two sched ules. Unlike films, megaseri als thrive on long schedules. To keep a watch on their weight, actors bring home cooked food. “But khichu di is an exception. Whenever the dish is prepared, it's always a hit,“ he said.
 
 
 
 Another caterer, Satyajit Das, who is now part of the units of two megaserials Premer Kahini and Swapno Udaan -said khichudi is worth the wait. “Our regular fare includes ular fare includes rice, dal, sabzi, bhaja, fish or mutton. For vegetarians, there's mishti doi and sweets.But when it rains heavily, I make it a point to prepare khichudi with bhaja on the side.Everyone forgets Everyone forgets their diet and gorges on khichudi-ilish bhaja,“ he said.
 
 Bikash Gayen, who has mastered the art of pre paring khichudi for bigger teams, said he generally doesn't keep an alternative menu the day he makes khichudi, as “it's loved by all". Currently , catering to the team of megaserial Potol Kumar Gaanwala, Bikash said he also prepares labra, omelette, papad and chutney to go with khichudi. “If it's a megaserial unit, I prepare khichudi for a team of 60-80. When it comes to films, it's always for a team of 250300,“ he added.
 
 
 In love with khichudi, actress   said she wholeheartedly believes that khichudi can drive away the rains. “I love khichudi and whenever it rains, I insist that my mother prepare some for me. But every time I sit for lunch, the rain stops miraculously . Though I love my mom's cooking, it's bet ter to have khichudi in the studio. At least I can enjoy the rains outside. Ilish maachh bhaja and papad are a must with it,“ she said. Actress  , known to be a health freak, said she never counts calories when it comes to khichudi. “In fact, I go the whole hog and make sure there are potatoes and ghee in my khichudi. One can always work out, but there's no compromising on this wonder food,“ she said.
 
 
