As police probe deeper into the   busted last week, it appears over hundreds in the state have secured employment as teachers, doctors, engineers on the basis of  . The   (CCB) unit of the city police will now train their guns on the about 1.6 lakh beneficiaries of the racket.

 As of now, the police have identified 400 people, who got government and   in Karnataka on the basis of these  . CCB will go after the clientele, with information gained from the 1,600 fake mark sheets recovered from the email accounts of the three agents arrested in the city.
 
 The arrested three include an employee of a private college, who was canvassing for potential clients. The scam is said to be based out of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 The racket is spread across the country and has about 180 agents, who allegedly have close links with some of the universities whose fake mark sheets were being distributed.
 
 The racket brings to mind the Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh, a case that emerged in 2009 in which agents facilitated unqualified candidates to clear eligibility tests.
 
 But police believe the bust in the city is only the tip of an iceberg. “This could be bigger than the Vyapam scam. We have begun the process of tracing down the beneficiaries and the rest of the agents, who facilitated the fraud. It will be a huge exercise,” said HD Anandkumar, Deputy Commissioner (Crime), Bengaluru City Police.
 
 The agents arrested so far are Deepanker Sen, Aruna and Kunal Kumar Mondal. A team later arrested two main operatives, Saurabh Kumar Sharma and Sandesh Agarwal, from Ghaziabad on May 4.
 
 
 
 
 The city police with the help of a cyber- forensic consultancy firm are presently skimming through 39,600 emails recovered from the persons arrested. They used email to contact clients and to distribute the fake documents. Police will also go through the 75,000 templates of fake documents from 38 universities that were recovered from a computer at Agarwal’s Double Eight consultancy firm near Ghaziabad.
 
 “We are going through each of these digital documents so as to identify the people who paid to get their degrees so as to get either a job or admission to higher studies,” Anandkumar said.
 
 These universities include Karnataka Open University, Bengaluru University, University of Allahabad, Dr MGR Medical University in Tamil Nadu, Thiruvalluvar University and Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University. Employees of these universities are expected to be grilled in the coming days.
 
 Some of the state intermediate and school board marks card and certificate templates including that of CBSE, Karnataka State Council of Intermediate Higher Education, Board of Secondary Education Andhra Pradesh, Board of Higher Secondary Open Education, Delhi and Gujarat Secondary Education Board were recovered from the racketeers.
 
 
 
 
 1Agents would double up as educational consultants and admission executives for private colleges in major cities
 
 2They would advertise on social media and identify a potential client when a student approached them with queries
 
 3The client would be asked to make an initial payment to a designated online account
 
 4After the money is sent, the agent collected basic details and a passport size photograph which would be forwarded to Sharma and Agarwal
 
 5A rate list for the course would be sent to interested candidates on WhatsApp. Rates were fixed for each course from the various institutes, often starting from Rs 1 lakh.
 
 6Before issuing the fake marks card, the agent sent an email with a scanned image of the card
 
 7If student wanted more marks, he/she has to pay an additional Rs 8,000.
 
 8 A cyber expert working on the case with the police said university employees were in on the scam as these fake cards would never be flagged during online verification.
 
