CHANDIGARH/PATIALA:   is set to make its battle against crop residue burning real time, with the state authorities using geo-spatial data to detect crop fires and alert the concerned deputy commissioner and district monitoring committees through SMSs.

 This plan is the outcome of the December 10, 2015, orders of the National Green Tribunal ( ), asking the state to use remote sensing facilities to monitor and curb  . The state authorities had started using the services of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, (PRSC), Ludhiana, last year, but it is for the first time that SMSs would be sent to DCs and monitoring committees.
 
 The PRSC would be using Remote Sensing (RS), Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) to collect geospatial data which would be used to take immediate action against errant farmers. Prodded by the National Green Tribunal to use remote sensing facilities to check stubble burning, the authorities in Punjab plan to take the SMS route to control air pollution. For the first time, authorities will send SMSs to deputy commissioner concerned and district monitoring committees.
 
 Manpreet Singh, chairman of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said ,“We have already deposited Rs 7 lakh with the PRSC as expenses toward SMSs that are to be sent to the concerned authorities.“ He said, “The NGT had made the district authorities responsible for taking action against violators, while the PPCB would be collecting a report from all district heads and compiling the data on the SMSs sent and action taken against violators. This data would be put before the  .“
 
 According to official data, area under paddy has gone up to 30 lakh hectares during 2016 from 28 lakh hectares in 2015.Farm experts said Punjab produced 66.54 tonne crop residue. Violator farmer, who owns 2 acre land will be fined Rs 2,500, owner of 5 acres Rs 5,000, a 10-acre farmer Rs 10,000 and bigger farms will invite a fine of Rs 20,000.
 
 Meanwhile,   (NASA), USA, had also been keeping a watch on burning of crops since 2012 and has been releasing satellite images each year showing crop being burnt across the state. Two years back,  's imagery captured by the Moderate Resolution Image Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on NASA's Aqua satellite showing large tracts across the state covered by smoke. The crop fires in Punjab and Haryana had led to high levels of pollution in Delhi during the winter of 2016.
 
 The agriculture department gives subsidy on equipment, including Happy Seeders and Rotavator, but the cost is a deterrent. The project of construction of bio-mass plants is running behind schedule. 
 
 A study conducted by Agriculture Development and Rural Transformation Centre at Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bangalore, found that harmful effects of a thick cover of smog enveloping region accounts for health hazard cost of Rs 76 million in rural Punjab.
 
