KOCHI: Railway officials at D cabin office near   railway overbridge (ROB) are finding it difficult to prevent people, especially students, from crossing railway tracks under the  . 

 According to students, they avoid the foot overbridge as they don’t want to climb 50 stairs.
 
 Officials are often forced to use iron rods to make sounds so as to alert students about the approaching train. 
 
 Three railway tracks pass under the ROB. Two lines are for the up and down movement of trains between Ernakulam and Kottayam, while the third one is towards Irumpanam marshalling yard.
 
 Students studying in three schools -- two convent and one government school -- cross these tracks in the morning and evening putting railway officials always on alert. The warning and advice remain unheeded. 
 
 “When a train sped over one track towards Ernakulam side, the trespassers stand on another track. But there will be train on that track too to Kottayam side at the same time. But they won’t hear the sound of the approaching train on that track due to the sound of train speeding on the track towards Ernakulam. That’s why we use iron rod to hit on the window to alert them about the approaching train,” said an official at the D cabin.
 
 Whenever we ask students to use foot overbridge they get annoyed. We have even approached police and school authorities to warn students against crossing railway tracks. 
 
 Many times students wait at the track for the approaching train and jump towards safety before the train hit them. There were incidents like the trains dragging cycles. Since there is no light in the area where people trespass tracks, some residents even approached us demanding to install lights there, said the official.
 
 Even parents have been found crossing the tracks with their school-going kids. “Safety department officials will give awareness to students at schools about the looming dangers in trespassing tracks. As per the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966, trespassing rail property is an offence,” said  , traffic inspector in the railway.
 
 “We will distribute pamphlets and screen documentary movies in the schools to create awareness on dangers involving trespassing tracks in the next academic year,” said a safety official in the railway.
 
 “We can’t climb 50 stairs. If anything happens to us, loss is always loss. Teachers tell us not to place rock on the track as it will cause derailment of trains,” said  , a Class IX student.
 
 
