GAYA: A division bench of the Patna high court will hear the case related to the controversial appointment of   of   colleges on Tuesday. A single bench of Justice   had quashed the appointments in September, 2014 on the grounds that norms were not followed and mandatory requirements, including the composition of the selection committee, were not met.

 The posts were advertised in 2008 and appointments were made by a selection committee headed by the then MU vice-chancellor B N Pandey. The appointments were challenged in the high court which found that irregularities were committed in the process. The   also upheld the high court order and directed the university to make fresh appointments from among the applicants.
 
 By the time the second round of appointments against the same posts were made, Pandey relinquished office. This time Arun Kumar, the then VC chaired the selection panel. Selection committee member Shiv Jatan Thakur blew the whistle and exposed the anomalies in the selection process, including lack of quorum and violation of the process of constituting the panel.
 
 Undeterred by Thakur’s objections, Arun made the appointments. The second round of appointments were also challenged in the high court and Justice Shivaji Pandey quashed the appointments. Arun was arrested by the vigilance sleuths and sent to jail.
 
 The grounds on which Justice Pandey quashed the appointments included the disproportionately high marks in interview to the candidates with poor academic records and the selection committee was not properly constituted. As per the provisions of the Act governing such appointments, the senior most principal of the university is to be a member of the selection committee. In violation of the said rule, Shrikant Sharma, the then principal of  , who figured at number 6 on the university’s seniority list, was made a member of the selection committee.
 
 Another anomaly pertained to the selection of experts. As per rule, the university’s academic council recommends a panel of ten experts of whom three have to be selected by the VC. In this case, the academic council did not recommend names, rather it authorised the VC to do the selection as per his wish, thereby upsetting the established principle of checks and balances.
 
