MAHMUDABADahmudabad: A bus with 25 students wheeled into the   on Friday morning after a 15-hour journey from Ashoka University in Gurugram, Haryana. 

 The architectural exuberance of the fort left these undergraduate students of Ashoka University mesmerised who arrived to observe the eight day of Muharram.
 
 Their deepest interest was the sight of Dalits and Muslims, including Shias and Sunnis - who shouldered the Alam of Hazrat Abbas (standard symbolic of Imam Husain's brother) as the centuries old juloos (procession) passed through the narrow lanes of the town.
 
 The taboots (symbolic coffins of the martyrs) and Zuljinah (symbolic horse of Imam Husain) were part of the procession flanked by camels taken out in the backdrop of Shehnai tunes based on ragas signifying mourning and drum beats.
 
 At Mahal Sara (female wing of the fort), women from the family of erstwhile   recited Nauhas (laments in the memory of Imam Husain and martyrs of Karbala). The five Imambaras inside the women's section were out of bounds for all men except the Raja and his two sons. 
 
 Walking barefoot on the rugged path under the bright sun, Raja Mohammad Amir Mohammad Khan of Mahmudabad with his zareeb (wooden staff) recitied elegies as the procession moved on. "What's baffling is the fact that Shias script the history of a battle they lost year after year, when it is usually the victor we know who writes history. We have been told by Prof Ali Khan Mahmudabad and his father, the Raja, that even when it would seem Imam Husain, Prophet Mohammad's grandson, lost the battle of Karbala in 680 AD, it was indeed a victory of right over wrong and that has lived by through times," said Sparsh Agarwal, a student from Haryana.
 
 As the procession passed through the narrow lanes, Ali Khan Mahmudabad, their teacher and his father Raja of Mahmudabad keep telling the students about the rituals they were performing, about the tragedy of Karbala and its concept.
 
  recalled an incident of communal harmony from his mother's time. "Once the eighth of Muharram and Ram Navmi fell on the same day. A delegation of Hindus approached my mother to seek advice on how both processions will be taken out peacefully. She told the delegation that she had two sons - one Hindu and one Muslim; the Hindu son is elder and will be respected by the Muslim son. So the Ramdol procession will be taken out before the Muharram juloos."
 
 The day following the procession of eight Muharram, marks another ritualistic procession where besides Muslims, Hindu women of the town fast for three days and stand in front of the Taziya for 24 hours singing 'dohe' for matryrs.
 
