KOCHI: The health workers who were till now focusing on immunisation programs and other health issues on the ground, have been entrusted the task of identifying and helping people with   in the state.

 Having identified depression as a major concern, the state health department has made “Depression, Let's talk“, the theme of this year's world health day. Doctors of primary health centres, field workers and nurses are being trained on how to handle patients with depression. At present only about 25 % of those who suffer from depression seek expert help. This comes at a time when the Parliament passed the  , 2016, which provides for healthcare and services to people with mental illness and also decriminalises suicide.
 
 “Nobody is willing to talk about depression due to the stigma associated with it. Depression is a physiological condition that needs to be managed in a normal way,“ said Rajeev Sadanandan, additional chief secretary (health & family welfare).
 
 Health experts accept that depression is the biggest challenge in Kerala today when it comes to mental health problems. “Almost nine per cent of adults in Kerala have common or minor mental health problems and of this five per cent suffer from depression,“ said Dr K S Shaji, Head, department of psychiatry, government medical college, Thrissur, co-ordinator of á populationbased study on prevalence of psychiatric disorders in Kerala.
 
 “One out of every four persons is depressed and depression is the most common cause of suicide and disability,“ said Dr  , nodal officer, comprehensive mental health programme, Ernakulam.
 
 As per the plan, field staff from 171 PHCs will identify high risk groups. This includes people with chronic or terminal illness, alcoholic dependents and their spouses, those who have attempted suicide or have communicated about any suicidal tendency. Those with mild depression will be counselled and those with moderate depression will be treated at PHCs.Only those with advanced problems will be referred to psychiatrists.
 
 Dr KP Jayaprakashan, secretary, state mental health authority, said that almost 80% of depression cases can be treated at PHCs with social intervention and counselling.“These disorders have to be treated by general physicians working in the primary and secondary care settings. Integration of mental health care with general health care is required,“ he added.
 
