SURAT: The   (SMC) has formed a seven-member committee to deal with the cases related to sexual harassment of its female employees. However, this has not gone down well with the female employees who are unhappy with the commissioner’s decision to appoint more male officers than female in the committee. Out of over 12,000 employees in the SMC, the female employees consist of around 50 per cent, i.e., 6,000 employees. 

 Sources said that municipal commissioner M Thennarasan has formed the committee with seven members — four male officers and three female employees — to deal with sexual harassment of the female employees in the civic body. 
 
 The committee members include assistant commissioner Gayatri Jariwala, assistant commissioner  , assistant commissioner Raju Gamit, SMC PRO,  , personnel officer Parul Rana, vigilance officer   and departmental inquiry officer Manhar Solanki. 
 
 Earlier, former municipal commissioner Milind Torawane had done justice with the committee on sexual harassment for women employees by appointing around four women employees including including SMC Curator Bhamini Mahida, Dr Vandana Desai from SMIMER and Dr Kalpana Desai on December 12, 2015. 
 
 Sources said the committee formed by Torawane was for three years. However, within two months, the committee was dissolved by the new municipal commissioner. 
 
 In the last one decade, two cases of sexual harassment have been registered. Earlier, municipal secretary   was charged with allegedly sexually molesting a female employees in the SMC. He was suspended after found guilty.
 
 Last year, police registered a second complaint in the alleged case of harassment of a woman employee of the SMC by her colleagues in September, 2015.
 
 Those booked for harassing the woman, who was a clerk in the town planning department, included five employees of SMC and one architect. The officers were booked under different sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code for harassing the woman.
 
