At a time when   are being blamed for poor results, a couple from   village,  , both teachers, has decided to set an example. Ravinder Kumar, 43 and his wife Saroj Bala are Junior Basic Teachers (JBT) posted in Jeetgarh village, 10 kilometers from   district. They had just joined the thinly-attended village government school when the panchayat passed a resolution for its closure on the grounds of lack of students. There were just 35 students on the rolls. 

 That was when Ravinder and Saroj decided to step in. 
 
 In the village with a population of 750, including 200 children, they faced a formidable task of overhauling the all but defunct school. They started by sweeping the premises and also arranged transport for children to and from school. Besides, they enrolled their own children there. This was a novelty, because most residents, particularly teachers, got their children admitted in private schools. 
 
 Apart from arranging transport service, they also introduced nursery section and basic English. 
 
 “We are just making an effort to set things right. We are happy that people have reciprocated to our efforts and we are grateful to authorities for giving us a free hand to make little changes in the school,’’ said Ravinder. 
 
 According to his wife Saroj, a sense of belonging is imperative for anyone who wishes to bring about a change. 
 
 “We enrolled our children in the school as this will give us the feeling that every child is our child. What matters is the way you groom children in the school. We have raised educational standards so much that our children can easily compete with private school students. Most of the students who have been admitted here come from private schools,’’ said Saroj. 
 
 She recalls how she and her husband got the rooms repaired and arranged water and electricity supply with the help of sarpanch Babli Devi. 
 
 “We had lost all hope till they joined us. After they got their children enrolled here, I did the same and we have joined their campaign now. The panchayat has agreed to share a few responsibilities,’’ said Babli Devi. 
 
