PUNE: Twelve policemen, including a woman, were attacked at Hadapsar and Lohegaon on Tuesday, reflecting scant regard of rule violators towards the law of the land.
Four policemen were assaulted for intervening in a financial dispute in Hadapsar. In the other incident, eight cops were manhandled for raiding an illicit liquor den in Lohegaon.
 
 Earlier, five policemen were attacked at Hadapsar and Vimannagar on Sunday night.A total of 24 policemen have been attacked since January 1.
 
 The spate of attacks on cops mirrors fearlessness among people about the police. It also casts a shadow on the effectiveness of police action against such rowdy elements.
 
 Such incidents have partially made a dent in citizens' confidence in the police. “If the cops are attacked, how do we expect them to protect us from criminals?“ asked a senior citizen.
 
 Reacting to such incidents, police commissioner   told TOI on Wednesday there was absolute lawlessness because some youngsters felt they were doing something good when they took law into their hands. She said, “Traffic police are most vulnerable to such attacks as they are not armed and perform duty alone most of the time.“
 
 She said, “The Section 353 of IPC is non-bailable. Such offences can be checked if the courts punish the accused immediately .“ Shukla also said she was conducting a study on such cases.
 
 The recent attacks on cops were mostly reported from Hadapsar, Vimannagar, Lohegaon and Khadki -under Zone IV of the Pune police commissionerate. Four policemen rushed near Ravi Darshan housing society in Hadapsar on Tuesday around 1.30pm following a call from the city police control room informing them that two men were fighting over a financial dispute.
 
 The cops intervened in the dispute and pacified them. In the melee, a third person picked up a dispute with the policemen on the grounds that he was an activist representing public there.
 
 The man, identified as   (35) from Daund, allegedly misbehaved with policemen and beat them up. He also threatened them with dire consequences, following which he was taken in custody and brought to the police station for taking action. One of the beat marshals,   (34), later filed a complaint against Balkat.
 
 In Lohegaon, around 30 policemen raided an illicit liquor den on Tuesday around 8.25pm at Rakhpasare Vasti.The incident created commotion because some people opposed the police action.
 
 Sub-inspector Vijay Jadhav of the Airport police said on Wednesday some women tried to prevent police from arresting the bootleggers and lay down before the police vehicles. Some men and women attacked eight cops, including a woman. “We arrested   (20) and Bapu Bodke (32), and booked two unidentified women under IPC and Maharashtra Prohibition Act,“ he said.
 
