NEW DELHI:  , the latest sensation of Indian cricket after his career best six wicket haul in the T20 decider match against England in Bangalore on Wednesday, is working on a magic ball, which he could unveil in this year's  . According to Chahal's coach  , the talented leg-spinner from Jind (Haryana) is yet to perfect his new delivery, but he is working hard in the nets towards getting it right.

 "I won't be able to reveal much right now. But Chahal is definitely going to bowl his magical delivery this IPL if he could perfect it in the nets," an elated Randhir told TOI from his hometown Narwal in Haryana.
 
 Chahal lives with his coach Randhir in Delhi and, therefore, it was a celebration of sorts when the news broke about his success at home. In fact, Randhir met with his father  , who is an advocate, on Tuesday and discussed how this match against England could be a turning point in his life. And as Randhir was heading home, he got a call from Chahal who got some last minute morale boosting tips from his coach.
 
 "I told him to keep in mind all those wickets he got in Bangalore and bowl naturally without trying anything else. He was confident of doing so and captain   reposed his faith in him. Even sharing the dressing room with a legend like   has given a good definition to his bowling. I am very very happy for him," he said.
 
 Randhir, then went on to say how a few of the other performances of Chahal went unnoticed because India couldn't win those matches. "In the first game against England, he got two quick wickets and still England walked away with the match. In the second game, he went wicketless but showed good attitude with the new ball," Randhir, who also coaches another T20 player  .
 
 "Even Negi is equally good like Chahal and did well under MS Dhoni. A few of the IPL games went against him and that kept him out of favour, but Negi has all the elements of a good spinner. It's unfortunate that he is tagged as someone who is good at T20 and ODI cricket only," the coach said.
 
 Drawing a parallel between Chahal and Negi, the coach further added that both his students are good enough to play in Test cricket as well and branding them as the specialists in shorter versions of the game isn't right. 
 
 "There is no hard and fast rule that someone who does well in shorter formats isn't good for Test cricket. This year, Chahal got to play for Haryana regularly and he was able to perform in most of the games. Negi would have been equally successful if he is given a chance to play for Delhi team. But this a good beginning and I am sure even Negi would come good with the ball for the country in the days to come," Randhir said before signing off.
 
