GURUGRAM: The   ( ), which has failed to field its candidates in all wards for the  , has extended its support to 10 independents in a move what has been dubbed as an attempt to counter the  . The   had declared its support to a few of the INLD-backed independents, and come up with a list of 10 candidates on Sunday.

 Haryana’s leader of opposition and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said the party decided to support strong   candidates to bring revolutionary changes in the MCG. The INLD has already fielded 20 candidates, who are contesting on the party symbol. 
 
 Chautala said the party would support RS Rathee, Saroj Devi, Bhagat Singh, Sanjay Pradhan, Seema Pahuja, Madhu Batra, Rajni Sahani, Pawan Saini, Alka Dalal and Mithilesh Yadav. 
 
 In a scathing attack on the BJP, Chautala alleged that the saffron party had sold its councillor tickets in the polls. “The party is supporting the candidates who are working for residents’ welfare associations and those who belong to intellectual families, and martyrs’ families,” he said.
 
 According to Usha Rana, the contestant from ward number 2, while INLD is getting good support in wards in which it has fielded candidates, the party will support independent candidates who have a good reputation and can give a tough fight to BJP. 
 
 Independent candidate from ward 34 RS Rathee said he still would contest as an independent while support from INLD would only add to his strength against the rival BJP. 
 
 Citing examples of Alka Dalal, who is contesting from ward 29, Chautala said, “It is a matter of pride for the party to support Dalal as she is the widow of Kargil war martyr Azad Singh Dalal.”
 
 He further said the party candidates and party-supported candidates should be committed towards the development of Gurgaon and if they won, they would ensure that MCG budget was spent wisely within the city municipal limits.
 
 The BJP, commenting on the move by its rivals, said both Congress and INLD are fighting the MCG polls just to show their existence. “If they were confident, they would have contested on all seats,” said BJP spokesperson Raman Malik.
 
