NAGPUR:  , an initiative of social organization  , was inaugurated at Madhav Netrapedhi, Pratap Nagar on Wednesday. The aim of starting the help centre is to provide disabled persons information about many schemes of the state and central governments.

 Inaugurating the centre, disability commissioner of Maharashtra Nitin Patil said, “Many students are suffering from vision deficiency due to mental pressure to do better in studies. Pressure from parents also add to their problems. Maintaining a good health largely depended on the state of mind as these two are interconnected. Therefore, when students feel pressure on their mind, then it affects their eyes,” said Patil. 
 
 Kamlesh Kumar Pandey, chief commissioner for persons with disability, said, “The government of India has brought many schemes for the disabled. Besides the current schemes, the government is also planning to introduce many other facilities for the disabled so that they can become financially independent.” 
 
 The help centre will provide necessary information to people suffering from various disabilities and guide them on education, jobs, government schemes and many others. Reservation for disabled in education and jobs is also likely to be increased from the current 3% to 4%, he said.
 
 Shirish Darvekar, national executive member of Saksham, said, “The centre will provide all the help needed by the disabled.” 
 
 Online forms for application for jobs or for any other purposes will be provided there. Disability certificates will be made available to the disabled people. Saksham is also trying to provide free e-rickshaw service to the handicapped. Those disabled persons who need the service will have to just call up the centre for the service, he added. E-rickshaws run by the disabled will be paid fare amount for such a service from the help centre, Darvekar added.
 
 Saksham also organized a function to celebrate the birth anniversary of   at Thengdi Sabhagruh, Reshimbagh. Five books in Braille were published at the event. Radha Borde, Jigyasa Chawaldhal and Vinod Asudani were felicitated for excellence in their respective field. 
 
 
