GORAKHPUR: When this young man won in UP’s assembly election of 1985, he grabbed headlines. Hari Shankar Tiwari became the country’s first politician to triumph in an electoral contest from prison. Over 30 years on, he sits in an off-roader, part of a long cavalcade, riding past bright yellow mustard fields of Gagha, 30 km from   city.

 It’s here that he won six elections on the trot before his run was cut short in 2007. His exploits, and those of a few more bahubalis such as Virendra Pratap Sahi and Sriprakash Shukla, earned Gorakhpur the sobriquet “Chicago of the east”.
 
 Once accused under the anti-terror law, the national security law and the Gangster (Prevention) Act, Tiwari today stands acquitted of all charges. In the 1970s and 1980s, when gang wars raged in Gorakhpur’s streets, east UP netas sought the support of dons. That could explain why Tiwari was in Kalyan Singh’s ministry, in Mulayam Singh Yadav’s and in Mayawati’s as well.
 
 Now his son Vinay is in a tight contest on a BSP ticket from Chillupar, the seat Tiwari represented. “His (Tiwari’s) infl uence here is immense,” says Vinay in his election offi ce at Badhalganj.
 
 People touch Tiwari’s feet wherever his cavalcade stops. In a Himachali cap, long coat, pyjamas and sports shoes, ‘Panditji’, as he’s known here, starts early. He spends time at his gaushala, then begins canvassing for Vinay. Ask ‘Panditji’ about Yogi Adityanath, Gorakhpur’s BJP MP, and he shoots back: “Yogi’s a vigilante cowprotector. I care for cows.”
 
 He bristles at the mere mention of   (strongman). “Not a single case against me. I fought right up to the Supreme Court and have been acquitted in all cases. If I were a bahubali, would I have won elections?”
 
 Tiwari says. Vinay says his father may not entirely be free of the don image, but his good work far outweighs that perception. “My dad got over 800km of roads built here. The roads you drove to reach here were built by him. The BSP candidate here (Rajesh Tripathi, who defeated Tiwari in 2007) did nothing. Even the Muktidham he built along the Saryu and keeps talking of, is a picnic spot where couples romance, robbing it of its sanctity,” he says.
 
 Allegations of ‘jaatiwad’ (casteism) get Tiwari’s goat. Rivals accuse him of starting a Brahmin-Thakur feud here. When asked about it, he calls to the people in his courtyard who bring forward a man. “This is Sanjay Singh, he has been with me for years and he’s a Thakur. You will fi nd many Thakurs with me,” he says.
 
 “What can I say about what the western press wrote?” he snaps when asked about a 1980s BBC report that likened Gorakhpur to Chicago. “A lot of falsehood was spread about me.”
 
 
