BENGALURU: The state-wide ban on consumption and sale of chewing tobacco has cast a shadow over the future of  . With some confusion still persisting over whether or not chewing tobacco constitutes food and its ban under the Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restrictions on Sales) Regulations-2011, it is clear that for farmers, continuing to grow and manufacture tobacco might be a risky pursuit. 

 An executive committee meeting chaired by Shalini Rajneesh, principal secretary, food and health department, with representatives from the horticulture and Ayush departments last week discussed alternatives before tobacco farmers.
 
 Rajneesh said her department was planning to approach the agriculture department and work in tandem with them to facilitate better avenues for farmers. “The root cause for chewing tobacco and its prevalence is that farmers are continuing to grow these crops. We plan to get in touch with other departments so that we can come up with new marketing tie-ups with companies through government facilitation to ensure greater paybacks. There will be exercises to map different crops grown across the state, various species of plants and the most fertile crop,” she said, adding that her department could intervene only indirectly in the matter by offering such schemes.
 
 Earlier, farmers have been able to scale up their profits through crops like the sugar substitute stevia and the medicinal ashwagandha or ginseng, officials claimed.
 
 “A farmer who grows stevia can earn Rs 2 lakh per acre. When it comes to tobacco, the return is only Rs 50,000 per acre. They should grow crops that make economic sense and we should give them better alternatives,” Rajneesh added.
 
 According to Krishnamurthy H M, joint director of the horticulture department (Biotech), under whose department the commercial manufacture of tobacco falls, said Mysuru and Hunsur taluks are where tobacco is predominantly grown in the state.
 
 “We deal with fruits, vegetables, flower crops and spices among other things. We will include tobacco growers as well. Stevia is one such   that can be grown. Since it’s a medicinal crop, it comes under the central government’s Ayush scheme. Ashwagandha is another potential crop. We are hoping to identify other crops so that they can trade directly with the companies. We are going to approach the agriculture department for this,” he said.
 
 There were also discussions about potentially bringing the farmers under a similar scheme as envisaged by the Centre’s Ayush mission, where farmers were given free saplings of medicinal plants along with training on how to grow them. Some training models had been prepared which would have to be altered for tobacco growers, he added.
 
