KANNUR: While the campaign to protect Madayippara, the laterite plateau in the district known for its biodiversity, is gaining momentum, the move to notify the area as a   has raised concerns for the  , controlled by the   here, as they fear the land would be vested with the government.However, the protection would be carried out without taking over the land, said the people who mooted the idea.
“It was quite recently that we came to know about the move, after the Madayi panchayat organized a seminar in this regard, but we are against any such move, because the land belongs to the Devaswom,“ said  , a member of the Chirakkal family.
 
 He said many development activities were done there without the knowledge of the Devaswom, which pays the tax for the land, and if the place is notified as biodiversity protection centre, there is fear that the land would be vested with the government. “In the name of the Tem ple Arts Academy , there is an effort to acquire land here.Though landed properties vested with other people are also available here, why are the authorities adamant about acquiring the Devaswom land, thus hurting the sentiments of Hindu community,“ he asked.
 
 The environmental activists are against the idea, because they are concerned about the developmental activities in the name of protecting the place. What is needed now is not the socalled protection but conservation of the place as it is, opined  , chairman of Madayippara Sam rakshana Samithi, which campaigns for the protection of Madayippara.
 
 “Those who want the place to be notified as biodiversity conservation centre say the place would be conserved, but we have suspicion about their intention, because once the land is vested with the government, new constructions will come up, ultimately destroying the place,“ he said, adding that what is needed now is to prevent any kind of encroachment.
 
 MLA, T V Rajesh, said, “The place has been encroached considerably and we have to ensure the protection of the place and prevent all types of encroachments in future; hence we mooted this idea a few months back,“ he said. The MLA also clarified that the land will not be acquired, but only the protection would be ensured. Moreover, there will not be any kind of construction activity in the place once the notification comes, and also it will further help study and researches on the biodiversity here, which would ultimately protect the place only, said Rajesh.
 
