PANAJI:Subhash Pandey allowed a call to go unanswered when a local journalist called up, presumably to ask for directions to his Pilerne residence. When the cell-phone rang again, he couldn’t avoid picking up the call.

  “I’ll wait for you on the road, otherwise it will be difficult for you to find this place,” he told the journalist.
  Anyone in Subhash’s place would have kept the phone on silent mode. His daughter, Shikha, was at the crease, playing against   in the ICC Women’s World Cup final, and all eyes were glued to the television sets. This was a pivotal moment of the final. Wickets had just tumbled, quite unexpectedly, and a Cup that seemed to be India’s to lose, was slipping out of grasp.
 
  There was still hope. And it answered to the name of  . The Goan all-rounder had bowled poorly giving away 53 runs in seven overs. She had failed to provide the early breakthrough in her first spell like the last two matches, but for someone who is quite apt at turning things around with the bat, this opportunity was God-send.
  “Aaj toh hero banlo, Shikha,” her mother, Susheela, shouted from the sofa where she was seated, alongside her husband. No chance Shikha, playing at the hallowed Lord’s Cricket Ground, would have heard that. Four runs and eight balls later, Shikha left her mother in tears after going for a risky and non-existent run. Before she realised her folly, England had grabbed the eighth wicket and snapped Goa’s chance to rewrite the history books forever.
  As the image of an utterly-disappointed Shikha flashed on screen and television replays confirmed she was well short of her crease, there was funeral-like silence in the drawing room.
  “Kyon, Shikha, kyon,” Susheela wailed, before adding, “aur koi nahin hai.” There were only 11 more runs to get and still two wickets in hand, but probably she knew better. The two remaining wickets were lost in no time; just one run was added and India – along with the Pandeys – were left to rue what might have been had Shikha kept her cool.
  “Shikha rarely got a chance to bat higher up the order. She is an established batsman and has won so many games for Goa. Yet, today, when India needed her the most, she couldn’t deliver,” said her father.
  The senior Pandey has a point. Shikha once batted 121 balls and scored 28 runs to stitch a partnership with captain   and win a Test match against England. On Sunday, playing the biggest match of her life, that was not to be. The Pandeys were understandably crestfallen, and so were the assembled journalists. 
