PATNA: The Bihar   stalemate continued for the eighth day on Friday as the students did not turn up at the meeting called by the committee formed on Thursday to discuss their demands of raising scholarship amount, higher stipend for PG students and removal of college principal S Samantray for allegedly using derogatory language for them. The students have also written a letter to Bihar governor   and sought his intervention.

 The vice-chancellor of Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour,  , constituted a committee to resolve the issue at the Bihar Veterinary College, Patna.
 
 Over 160 students have been on the warpath against the college administration. Samantray said the students want liberty on the college campus. “I am strict with regard to attendance and curriculum and enforced a code of conduct on the campus. I have seen girls and boys returning to their hostels on the campus after 11pm. I objected to it and that’s why they hold a grudge against me. As far as water cooler problem is concerned, it’s the hostel warden’s duty to check these things and this problem will be resolved soon,” he said.
 
 On the students’ demand for hike in scholarship and stipend amount given by the college, Samantray told this correspondent over phone that the college had already submitted its report to the university in this regard. “I have submitted the proposal for this to the academic council of the university and it has been approved by the board of management. But it will take some time to implement this,” the principal said and added, “The students were aware about the scholarship and stipend amount at the time of taking admission. I don’t understand why they are making it an issue.”
 
 Meanwhile, the students avoided the notices issued by the college administration and university and continued with their protest. One of the students said, “We get only Rs1,800 as stipend money per month. We want it to be Rs10,000.” 
 
 Another student said, “We boycotted the meeting because all the members of the committee are from our college. They will only find faults with us. We will not relent unless the principal is removed and our demands are fulfilled.”
 
