Fiery, molten lava dribbling out of mountain cones, crested by soufflés of thick clouds in the sky. If that pretty much summarizes your idea of a volcano, then you are yet to explore the picture-perfect postcards that these deadly eruptions make, otherwise. Whether active or dormant, they resonate with an intensity and vibrancy that can easily surpass the beauty of mere mountains. We bring you a pictorial guide of the some of the most stunning volcanoes around the world… 

 
 Last erupted in 2004,   is a part of the Tengger massif. Apart from its eerie landscape, this active volcano is a talked-about spot among travellers for the breathtakingly beautiful sunrise vistas it serves. Nestled in the middle of the ‘Sea of Sand’, Mount Bromo is a protected nature reserve since 1919.
 
  
  
 
 
 This subaerial volcano makes quite a scenic sight for onlookers. Counted among one of the largest volcanoes on Earth, Mauna Lao is said to have erupted some 33 times, last being active in 1984. The name of the volcano translates to ‘Long Mountain’ in Hawaiian, while it captures about half of the Big Island.
 
  
  
 
 
 Aged about 7,500 years, Arenal is an active andesitic stratovolcano, which is regarded as one of the youngest volcanoes in the world. Well-known for its awe-inspiring beauty, Arenal also attracts a lot of visitors every year because of its geothermal activity that results in soothing hot springs in and around the area.
 
  
  
 
 
 Well-known for its near-perfect symmetric conical shape, Mayon is a classic stratovolcano that, according to folklore, was named after a princess, called Daragang Magayon. It forms part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, and looks gorgeous from every angle. The 2014 eruption of Mount Mayon forced thousands to flee the area.
 
  
  
 
 
 Think Santorini, and the first glimpses that comes to mind are beautiful white homes sitting pretty on multi-coloured cliffs. But this travel hotspot is the remnant of a volcanic caldera that dates back to 1600 BC. The caldera comprises overlapping shield volcanoes, which was thought to be last active in 1950. Visitors here are kept busy with hot spring and boat tours.
 
 
 
