JAIPUR: The attack on the 30-year-old civil engineer allegedly on the behest of his in-laws was a result of a planning of six months. Not only that the first planning to kill him failed in which a contract killer was hired by the in-laws of the victim for Rs 3 lakh was failed and it was the second and final attempt of the family in which the killer was hired two assailants in Rs 2 lakhs. This was revealed by the Jaipur police on Wednesday when they arrested the father-in-law, mother-in-law of the deceased and two other persons involved in the conspiracy of the murder. 

 It may be recalled that Amit Nair was shot dead by unknown assailant when his father-in-law and mother-in-law visited him at his Jagdamba Nagar situated house on May 17. 
 
 But, the most surprising thing that came to fore while the accused were brought to the police commissionerate was that the main accused Jeevna Ram(50) had no regrets of what he has done to his daughter and son-in-law. While he was brought at the commissionerate directly from Kaithal (Haryana), Jeevna without having any signs of regrets, said, “He (Amit Nair) had maligned our image in the society. He used to call my daughter as Dharam Behan and despite all that he betrayed us. If somebody does such act to a girl who is like a sister to him what will his parents do.”
 
 Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police, said, “Our technical team and other teams at various parts of Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana were working together for the breakthrough. Finally, we got success and we managed to arrest Jeevna Ram from Kaithal (Haryana) while he was about to board a bus. His wife Bhagwani Devi (50) was arrested from Sikar. We have also arrested one Bhagwana Ram (51) who is known to Jeevna Ram who had helped him in getting the contract killers.” 
 
 “It also came to our notice that Jeevna Ram had planned to eliminate his son-in-law six months ago and through Bhagwana Ram he was introduced to one Ravi Shekhawat(21) who initially agreed to kill Amit Nair. It was a deal of Rs 3 lakh for which Reccee was also done. But for some reasons it could not be materialized,” Agarwal added. 
 
 If it could not be established that Ravi Shekhawat attacked the accused six months ago than why was he arrested, Ashok Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (Crime), said, “It came to our notice that Ravi was in touch with Jeevna Ram and family prior to the murder which took place on May, 17. Thus, he is arrested under section 302(Murder) to be read with 120-B(Criminal Conspiracy) and section 118 of IPC.” 
 
  Elaborating further Agarwal, said, “Two people who were probably hired as shooters are at large and would be arrested soon.” 
 
 “Jeevna Ram and his wife tried to forcefully take Mamta away but she resisted and people in the neighbourhood helped,” he added. 
 
 Asked after the murder what was the route taken by the assailants to escape, Agarwal, said, “The two unidentified persons were dropped near Bagru by Jeevna Ram and his wife. Thereafter the couple reached Deedwana(Nagaur) and left the vehicle at the house of their son Mukesh. Thereafter couple reached Suratgarh from where Jeevna Ram dropped his wife to a bus to Sikar and he reached Haryana via Bikaner,” he added.
 
