NEW DELHI: When you consider that last season   started with two losses, the outcome of their campaign is nothing short of remarkable. Under  , the inspirational leader who time and again termed each of SRH's wins "a team effort", the franchise soared to their maiden IPL title.
 
 Having tasted success last season after a poor start, and with the addition of some very good purchases, the defending champions enter   brimming with confidence. However, doubts over the participation of Bangladesh seamer Mustafizur Rahman, who last year took 17 wickets to help SRH into the final, could leave the franchise depleted. 
 
 
 
 
 Second on the run charts, and inspirational captain of the team that won the title, Warner was above all an impactful batsman in 2016. Of the innings in which he crossed 25, eight contributed to wins which was a major factor behind SRH's presence in the top half of the points table. Scores of 46, 52 and 73 took SRH into the playoffs, where he produced arguably the innings of the tournament in the Eliminator - 93 not out when the next highest score from No's 2-7 was just 11. Then in the final, Warner made a bold decision to bat first and backed it with a punchy 69 off 38 balls. Overall, nobody hit more fifties than his nine.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 An allrounder who played 76 ODIs and eight Tests for Australia from 1989 to 1999, Moody's first coaching assignment in the IPL - he helped Sri Lanka to the final of the 2007 World Cup - was with Kings XI Punjab but it wasn't until he got the job with SRH in 2013 that he tasted real success. Under Moody, the team made a bright start to the league, finishing fourth that season. After two sixth-place finishes, SRH won the title last year under Moody's tutelage. 
 
 
  David Warner (capt), Shikhar Dhawan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Moises Henriques, Naman Ojha, Ricky Bhui, Kane Williamson, Siddarth Kaul, Bipul Sharma, Ashish Nehra, Yuvraj Singh, Ben Cutting, Abhimanyu Singh, Mustafizur Rahman, Barinder Sran, Deepak Hooda, Vijay Shankar, Rashid Khan, Mohammad Siraj, Eklavya Dwivedi, Chris Jordan, Mohammad Nabi, Ben Laughlin, Tanmay Agarwal, Pravin Tambe
 
 
  Their brand of cricket made SRH one of the most exciting teams to watch last season. Warner's flair with the bat and in the field, Shikhar Dhawan's solidity, the utility of Moises Henriques, the craft of Mustafizur, Ashish Nehra's accuracy and Bhuvneshwar Kumar's swing were all vital cogs and this season they have added expectancy. The additions of Chris Jordan and the Afghanistan pair of Mohammad Nabi and Rashid Khan, in particular, give SRH an added dimension.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  1 David Warner (capt), 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3 Moises Henriques, 4 Yuvraj Singh, 5 Naman Ojha (wk), 6 Deepak Hooda, 7 Mohammad Nabi/Rashid Khan, 8 Bipul Sharma, 9 Chris Jordan, 10 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 Ashish Nehra
 
 
  2016 - winners; 2015 - sixth place; 2014 - sixth place; 2013 - fourth place. 
 
 
  A squad that knows what it takes to make the play-offs after a slow start, and then up their game during the Qualifier, Eliminator and most vitally the final, should be able to make the knockouts again. Losing Mustafizur would be a major blow to their aspirations of a repeat, but don't expect anything less than a play-off berth. 
 
 
  April 5 v RCB (home); April 9 v GJ (home); April 12 v MI (away); April 15 v KKR (away); April 16 v KXIP (home); April 19 v DD (home); April 22 v RPS (away); April 25 v RCB (away); April 28 v KXIP (away); April 30 v KKR (home); May 2 v DD (away); May 6 v RPS (home); May 8 v MI (home); May 13 v GL (away).
 
