VISAKHAPATNAM: On the eve of   (May 24), mental health experts from the city highlight the management aspects of the disease to enable a patient lead a normal life instead of being stigmatised.

 According to psychiatrists, schizophrenia affects 0.5-1% of the population, which means in a city like Vizag that has around 20 lakh population, at least 10,000-20,000 people suffer from the ailment. “The disease can strike men or women, teenagers or elderly people. Though the causes are multi-factorial, research has shown that genetic factor (if a parent is schizophrenic) escalates the risk by 30-40%. The abnormality in chromosome numbered six, eight and 11 are usually responsible for schizophrenia. Other factors that can precipitate include subjection to childhood abuse (verbal and physical), bullying, exposure to radiations to name a few,” said consultant psychiatrist from   Dr Anuradha Singh.
 
 “Family members should also be aware that if their loved ones display symptoms or odd behaviour such as suspicion, secrecy, staying aloof from peer group, wandering, poor sleep, and bizarre thinking, they need psychiatric help. Some patients may also get into substance abuse. Psychological support from family and friends is very important. Also, such patients shouldn’t be angered or provoked,” said Dr   Dutt, president of  .
 
 “The role of caregivers within the family and their knowledge about schizophrenia are also important as home plays a crucial role in management of the disease. Family members should refrain from criticising and blaming the patient,” Dr Singh said.
 
 However, nowadays the whole profile of the illness is changing. Earlier, the disease had very low rates of improvement. “But now, new generation drugs are available which help patients to think and behave normally and be proactive and interactive. The only caveat is that they have to be administered medicines regularly and taken for check-ups to keep the illness under control,” Dr Dutt said.
 
 The role of caregivers within the family and their knowledge about schizophrenia are also important as home plays a crucial role in management of the disease. Family members should refrain from criticising and blaming the patient
 
 
