When was the last time you blew a balloon? Probably, when you were a child? But, for 22-year-old  , son of a flower seller from Podanur, inflating   is the route to fame. This engineering graduate has been in the news ever since he blew 500 balloons in a matter of 68 minutes at an event held in the city. Hussain attempted a record in three categories- most balloons blown in a minute, most balloons blown in three minutes and the fastest time to blow 500 balloons. At the recent event, he managed to inflate 11 balloons in a minute, 29 balloons in 3 minutes and 500 balloons in 68 minutes.

 “It all started in 2011 when I started doing a part-time job in balloon decorations. I was in charge of blowing balloons for birthday parties and private events. Later, I came forward to blow balloons at a symposium held at my college. (Dr NGP Institute of Technology) The pace at which I was blowing the balloons impressed a friend of mine, who later suggested that I could put the skill to good use. That’s when I decided to give the records a shot. Since then there has been no looking back. I blew 486 balloons in an hour at an event and that was considered a record. It’s been two years I completed my studies but I continue my passion for blowing balloons.” Sadham now accompanies his brother in installing smart boards in schools. He already has his name etched in the   for blowing 486 balloons in one hour and 1,000 balloons in 147 minutes. 
 
 So, does he practice blowing balloons on a regular basis? “Not really! Since, I continue my job in balloon decorations and I get the opportunity to practice regularly. The only ritual I have been following from day one is to keep a glass of water and glucose next to me. You lose a lot of moisture when blowing a balloon and it’s imperative that you don’t feel tired while at it. You need a lot of stamina as well.” However, he adds that blowing balloons is not a cakewalk while attempting a record. “The balloons diameter should be 20 cm after blowing it; you have to tie it up. Many a time I have burst a number of balloons during the process. I get extremely nervous then and lose out on time. But, I carry on with the attempt as I have to finish inflating the maximum number of balloons at a particular time.” The electrical engineering graduate aspires to set a   in blowing balloons. “I want to set a world record and I am working hard towards it,” says Sadham, who is still hunting for a job that will help fulfill his dream. 
 
 
