HYDERABAD: The 30-km stretch of Hyderabad   Rail from Miyapur to Nagole will be ready by November 20 and the TRS government hopes to get it inaugurated by Prime Minister   on November 28, said municipal administration minister   on Thursday.

 Talking to reporters after reviewing the work at Oliphant Bridge,   said the state government is awaiting a confirmation of the inauguration by Modi from the PMO. “The inaugural ceremony will take place at   depot and the PM may take a ride from Miyapur to Ameerpet,“ he said. After the inauguration, the Miyapur-Nagole stretch will be open to public. The later phases will be thrown open to the public as and when they are ready, he said.
 
 “The state government is keen that PM Modi inaugurates the Metro rail project. Not only because the   is the biggest Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the world, but also due to the fact that it's being executed by Larsen & Toubro, an Indian multi-national company.The Prime Minister's Office has not yet given a confirmation on the inauguration date. If it is not possible on November 28, the TRS government will wait for another date for Modi to come and inaugurate,“ said KTR.
 
 He said Metro rail works began in 2012 and was supposed to be completed by July 2017. However, there were unavoidable delays, but some people started criticizing it.“The state government does not want to have a symbolic inauguration. We would have inaugurated the eight-km stretch between Nagole and Mettuguda two years ago.But we decided to wait as it would have served no purpose,“ the minister said.
 
 KTR said Metro rail in other cities such as Bangalore, Kochi, Lucknow and Chennai were inaugurated covering a distance of 7-12 km. “But the Telangana government wants to cover at least 30 km from one end to the other, before throwing open to the public,“ he said.
 
 On provision of parking spaces for vehicles, the mini ster said 34 places have been identified for multi-level parkings at various Metro stations for passengers. “The government will introduce 20seater electric mini buses as feeder services within 4-5 km radius to enable them to reach Metro stations,“ the minister said.
 
 For passengers who use multiple travel mode, KTR said the government would introduce common passes for RTC, MMTS and Metro rail and also tie up with private cab operators such as Ola and Uber. A smart App is being developed, he said. After inspecting the project around Oliphant bridge at Secunderabad, KTR said works were taken up, causing minimum inconvenience to the public and without any problem to rail traffic movement.
 
