BENGALURU: The people of   are no strangers to the hardships that drought invariably brings in its tow. However, the situation in the district appears more severe this year. Although summer has just begun, villages in the district are already faced with a problem of acute water scarcity. From students giving classes a miss, to women waiting in line to fetch no more than a pail of water, the situation in the district is indeed stressing.

 When TOI paid a visit to villages in Koppal and Yelburga taluks in the district, ROs could be spotted in most of them.However, few of them appeared to be in working condition. Dry taps at the Bhanapur railway station, which served as a water filling station when steam engines were still in use, indicated the extent of the problem in the district. “The station is a centre for nearly 50 villages. Passengers use it to board trains to Hubballi and Hosapete. One platform here doesn't even have water supply, and passengers who arrive at the station have no source to quench their thirst,“ said  , a Bhanapur resident.
 
 However, the station master Sanjeev Kumar pointed out that water supply to the platforms was regulated carefully .“Our staff use water judiciously, and we ensure 24x7 supply to the quarters. We cannot expect the passengers to be as cautious. We have requested the engineering department to provide connection to platform two,“ he added.
 
 Meanwhile, people from Chikkenakoppa village have to travel more than 13km to Itagi, to get drinking water. “People from Chikkenakoppa come to our village and Kukanur for drinking water. They carry the water on tractors, bicycles and other vehicles,“ said Veeranagouda Hakkandi of Itagi.
 
 Those who cannot afford to travel to Itagi and other village have been using water from a lake in Chikkenakoppa for drinking. “We have been drinking water from this lake. It's muddy , but good enough for us,“ said Gangamma, a resident of the village.
 
 Pre-university students   and Basavaraj Goudar said that villagers had banned use of the lake's water for washing clothes and cattle.
 
 Despite the scorching heat, Suresh Alur of Yarehanchinal travelled 7km to Chikkenakoppa on his bike to stock up water in four pots. “I am actu ally lucky. Those who do not have bicycles are forced to walk,“ he said.
 
 A private firm that installed a RO at Yarehanchinal hiked the price of water, said the villagers. “They increased the price from Rs 2 for 20 litres to Rs 6. We asked the rural development and panchayat raj department officials to install a government RO. Although it was set up, the water is not sufficient,“ said Andappa Kolur, president,   and Hasiru Sene, Yelburga. However, the water that they trek long distances to fetch barely lasts for a few days.
 
 Shekappa Chetti of Binnal village said, “I am a tractor driver, and have to skip work to get water for my family .“ Meanwhile, in Ghatareddihal, the villagers have devised a unique system to fulfil their drinking water needs.“Mundargi, a taluk headquarters in Gadag district, is just 6km away. There, a 20-litre water can costs Rs 2. While we might have to spend Rs 22 if we went there, we pay Rs 15 to transport vehicles that operate between our village and Mundargi, and they get water for us,“ said  , a farmer in the village.
 
 On the other hand, residents of Binnal and Chikkenakopp complained that conductors on NEKRTC buses were not allowing them to board buses with water. However, NEKRTC's division controller for Koppal B Borayya defended the conductors. “There's the possibility of the passengers carrying inflammable substances. Our staff cannot check every container to verify whether passengers are carrying water since there's always a rush,“ he added.
 
