KOLKATA: Beginning next year, admission to the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute ( ) and Film and Television Institute of India ( ) will be conducted through a common entrance test. Though there was talk of introducing the single exam for film studies from this academic session itself, time and logistical issues have forced the 2018 rollout.

 The move will benefit students, who won’t have to pay two exam fees and spend for going to examination centres twice over for both SRFTI and FTII. The institutes can also cut down on expenses incurred individually for conducting the entrance tests across the country.
 
 SRFTI director Debamitra Mitra said: “From the 2018 batch, we will have a common entrance test for both institutes. The I&B ministry has taken this decision.”
 
 The entrance framework at both FTII and SRFTI are similar, where students apply online, sit for an exam, are shortlisted and called for an orientation programme. Th- is is followed by an interview session and students are sel-ected for different courses. 
 
 There is also good news for film enthusiasts looking at short-term courses. From acting and editing to cinematography and photography, SRFTI is introducing at least five film-making courses this August. “We are planning to introduce six months’ certificate course in acting. That apart, there have been discussions on a three-month course on digital non-linear editing,” said SRFTI director Debamitra Mitra.
 
 Film appreciation, another critical aspect for students of cinema, is part of another course. Filmmaker Ashoke Viswanathan, the dean of SRFTI, will conduct it. “We will start the appreciation course from October. It will be a four-week course and held thrice a year,” Viswanathan said.
 
 SRFTI will also introduce a certificate course on library automation emphasising on digital and audio-visual media. “There are plans to start a course in lighting design for cinematography. A course on   and still photography is also on the cards,” Mitra added.
 
 Viswanathan said with the certificate course in acting, not only will it be possible to handle actors’ workshops, these actors can also be absorbed in various projects.
 
 SRFTI is starting a new television department in addition to the existing six departments on direction and screenplay writing, motion picture photography, editing, sound recording and design, animation cinema and producing for film and television. “Television is an essential wing is today’s world of media convergence. In the television wing, we have a separate segment called new media. We will focus on social media too. News gathering and reporting are also part of the television course,” Viswanathan said.
 
 Meanwhile, short-term courses at SRFTI’s Itanagar campus have already started. Some ex-students are working there as teaching assistants, which will give them a chance for engagement and exposure. “The valedictory session of the first batch will be held on July 22. Work on the permanent campus of Itanagar will also begin soon,” Mitra said.
 
 
