TRICHY: Government Railway Police (GRP) rescued a one-month-old baby boy near the unreserved ticket booking hall at Trichy railway junction early Monday morning. Police have registered a case and are attempting to trace the whereabouts of the baby’s mother.

 Meanwhile, the infant has been admitted at the   (MGMGH) by the police. Hospital sources said that the infant has been put under observation as he is very weak. 
 
 According to the railway police, passengers had noticed an infant lying on the floor in front of the cloak room near the unreserved ticket booking centre at Trichy railway junction at 6.30am on Monday. Since the baby was crying, one passenger gave him some milk purchased at the milk booth. A team of GRP personnel headed by sub inspector Laxmi rushed to the spot and rescued the boy and subsequently sent word to MGMGH by neonatal 108 ambulance.
 
 When contacted, S  , dean of   told TOI that as the infant was too weak, he had been put under medical observation. The doctors could not find any other complication regarding the infant’s health.
 
 Many children, who run away from homes due to various reasons, are often rescued at railway stations. Most of these children are stranded at Trichy as it is geographically located in the heart of the state.
 
 To rescue and ensure safety of these children, the district collector has insisted that Child Line and railway authorities set up a children’s help desk at the junction. The desk would also promote awareness about the child helpline number- 1098, officials said. 
 
 As per the collector’s instructions, the desk will be set up at Platform 1 of Trichy railway junction from March 1 after obtaining necessary permissions from the railway authorities. The desk would be manned by a child line official and a GRP round the clock to attend to grievances pertaining to child safety.
 
 Meanwhile, in another incident, two minor boys aged 10 and 15 years, who had left home at   in Mannarpuram, to play, had gone missing since Sunday evening. After a complaint was lodged by Kannan, father of one of the boys, with KK Nagar station, police have launched an investigation.
 
