NAGPUR: The stories written by noted Hindi author   came alive at audio visual room of Dinanath High School where a dramatized reading of two of Verma’s stories ‘Antar’ and ‘Ek Din Ka Mehman’ was organized by Cine Montage, a film society of city. Giving voice to the characters, so far confined to the pages of these novels, were four noted theatre persons Dinkar and Madhuri Bedekar, Supantha Bhattacharya and  .

 Organized for the first time, the event chose Verma’s works to coincide with his birth anniversary which was on April 3. “Technology and social media has made communication very dry and insensitive,” said Bedekar who has conceptualized the event. “Sociologists across the world are now concerned over this and one of the methods of turning this around would be through literature,” he added.
 
 Adding charm to the vocal presentation of the literary works was the background score managed by Prashant Joshi, which added to the feel of the story and gave it the required realistic touches. 
 
 The evening began with the reading of ‘Antar’, a short story set in Prague where Verma had spent considerable time. The reading took 25 minutes as Bhattacharya narrated and Madhuri and John filled in for the two characters to help audience visualize and feel the vagaries of a broken relationship. 
 
 Thereafter, for the next 45 minutes the audience were transported to a small house in London where an estranged family was trying, albeit unsuccessfully, to connect the threads of their lives, as Dinkar and Madhuri read out the parts of the characters and Bhattacharya was once again the narrator. Madhuri brilliantly filled in for the characters of both mother and daughter by switching voice tones which she made appear effortless.
 
 “The audience here are filmgoers so I picked on Verma’s works which are very vivid. ‘Ek Din Ka Mehman’ especially is like a scenario,” said Dinkar. “Besides, these two stories showed two different angles of man-woman relationship and the complexes and frustrations that riddle it,” he added.
 
 Summing up the author’s style and works at the end of the reading session was Hindi writer Jaishankar who has had a long association with the author. “Verma entered the world of literature when the influence of Urdu writers was very strong and the era of chhayavaad or neo-romanticism was on the wane. In an era when literature was content heavy but lagged in use of appropriate words, Verma charted his own course with liberal use of colloquial language,” he said.
 
 Cine Montage would be conducting this event once in two months. The next session featuring Hindi poet   will be held in June.
 
