BAREILLY: To promote   across regions and in remote areas, airstrips in 10 cities of  , including Meerut, Moradabad, Saharanpur and Aligarh, are to be converted into ‘no-frills airports’.

 Bareilly district magistrate (DM)   told TOI on returning from Lucknow that in a meeting about civil aviation related matters chaired by the state chief secretary, it was decided that all 18   would be connected with the state capital by air. The director of civil aviation has been instructed to prepare an estimate of the budget required.
 
 “No-frills airports are all set to become a reality in Uttar Pradesh as chief secretary Rajiv Kumar said in the meeting that 10 cities — Saharanpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Aligarh, Faizabad, Jhansi, Azamgarh, Sonbhadra, Shravasti and Chitrakoot — have been identified for this,” special secretary, aviation department in UP government, SP Gangwar told TOI.
 
 “Functional airstrips will be developed into such airports under the  , once bidding is completed,” Gangwar added.
 
 The locations were identified based on the criteria of population, availability of land and the potential for tourism and industry. 
 
 According to sources, without compromising safety and security,   (AAI) will develop the  . This will result in low cost of operation and provide infrastructure for airlines to run their services. There will be no aerobridges at these airports and only the security holding areas will be air-conditioned. These airports will have mobile air traffic control units instead of ATC towers, sources added.
 
 Gangwar said that the timelines for completion of the airport projects depend upon many factors like availability of land, mandatory regulatory clearances, environmental clearances, traffic projections and provision of support services by urban local bodies such as access road to the airportand water supply. 
 
 “As far as UP is concerned, almost 85% of people residing in smaller towns do not have air connectivity. These are people who can afford to pay air fares if the facility is made available,” said Gangwar, adding that the new government seems to be very enthusiastic in reviving the aviation sector and providing a faster mode of transportation to the people.
 
