KOLKATA: The third edition of the   promises to kick off with a  .   PricewaterhouseCoopers ( ) -which has a major presence in the city -will on Saturday announce the setting up of its first   in  's Sector V .

 Besides, a leading Russian firm in construction chemicals will announce over Rs 115-120 crore foreign direct investment in Bengal during the business meet.There is also a strong possibility that leading instant noodles brand Wai Wai, owned by Nepalese conglomerate CG Corp Global, may ann ounce investments here.
 
 Sivarama Krishnan, cyber security leader of PwC India, told TOI that the new project will be a centre of excellence for the consultancy major. “This will be our first such centre globally and would cater to our clients internationally . Later on, we might have more such centres in other parts of the world. We are planning to address different applications here,“ he said.
 
 Krishnan will be at the business summit to announce the cyber security centre.
 
 It is learnt that PwC will hire nearly 500 people by 2020, who will work on cyber security incident response and malware analysis. The firm is looking at an investment of over $2.5 million for the centre. “There is demand from both government and enterprises, particularly in the financial sector,“ a PwC official said. Sanjib Parial, managing director of Ado Additives, said that it is forming a joint venture with Russian chemicals construction major Cedrus for setting up a state-ofthe-art facility in Bengal.
 
 “We are in an advanced stage of discussions and the MoU for JV will be signed during BGBS. Officials of Cedrus are already in Kolkata with Russian delegation,“ he added.
 
 A40-member Russian delegation will be present at the summit. According to Parial, Cedrus is willing to pump in over $15 million for the project here. “We have seen land in Naihati at an industrial park.We shall go there with the representatives of Cedrus after BGBS,“ he added. Incidentally , Cedrus is one of the leaders in powder coating chemicals in Russia.
 
 The flavour of this edition of BGBS will be foreign participation. There will be over 450-member foreign delegation from Italy, Germany , Russia, China, Korea, Japan, USA and Nepal. CG Corp Global, a Nepalese conglomerate owned by Binod K Chaudhary , is also exploring the possibility of setting up a Wai unit here, their popular noodles brand in India. Currently , Wai has few plants in India.
 
 “Yes, I will be attending BGBS and a Wai plant here is on our radar,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Major names from the India Inc, who were present at the BGBS dinner on Thursday, were Essar group chairman and co-founder Sashi Ruia, J K Paper MD and former Ficci president Harsh Pati Singhania, Cadila Healthcare CMD and current Ficci president Pankaj R Patel, Bharat Hotels Limited and The Lalit Hotels CMD Jyotsna Suri, Dalmia Bharat Group MD Punit Dalmia, Matix Fertilisers vice chairman Nishant Kanodia and Manipal Global Education chairman T V Mohandas Pai. Among the local corporate honchoes, RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group chairman Sanjiv Goenka and ITC COO Sanjiv Puri were seen at the Eco Park venue. 
 
 
