NEW DELHI: When Indian football makes news, it is seldom from the field of play. Those days are long gone. Allegations of physical abuse levelled against India's Under-17 coach  , is the latest off-the-ball foul in this troubled sport. As if things weren't already bad for an administration that's been grappling with glitz-rich but zilch-depth events taking centrestage and clubs folding up elsewhere, how do you deal with this headache now?

 Since the past week, the Adam issue, compounded with his obstinacy to step down and even be allowed to negotiate his remuneration, has cornered all attention, unfairly deflecting attention from a terrific start to the I-League season. 
 
 Yet, funnily enough, the All India Football Federation can still make the best out of a bad deal if they play their cards right. With the Under 17 World Cup - that India so ambitiously won to host - a mere nine months away, whether the issue is more untimely than it is unsavoury is difficult to tell, but a firm-looking, decisive federation would be to everyone's liking.
 
 If insiders are to be believed, the federation has enough from  's Development Fund to pay off Adam, hire a more seasoned, father-figure like coach in the manner of a   and still retain a handy surplus. While it would have been ideal to have had a young, home-grown coach from the start, the need of the hour would be to have an experienced man-manager rather than one armed with a coaching manual. A calming presence is needed to assuage all aggrieved parties and lend some semblance of respect to a largely the derailed Indian challenge at their own World Cup.
 
 But in acting swiftly, the   need to take care against quick-fix methods that they are so famous for in the past. Ad-hocism in the form of Scott O'Donell or worse, an   coach since they are currently free (read, jobless) at the moment would be a greater travesty because that move will only continue to mirror all that is systemically wrong with the Indian structure in the first place. 
 
 In many ways, this Nicolai Adam issue is unprecedented in Indian football, because it is a much changed world that junior or youth sportsmen inhabit today.
 
 For one, while the allegations cannot be overlooked, the controversy could have been avoided had there been in place a system with a strong and respected local manager overseeing the off-field issues and acting as a liaison between the boys and the foreign coach lest things were lost in translation. The AIFF's inability to initially grasp the gravity of the situation showed up when instead of instituting a probe panel and suspending the coach pending further enquiry, they allowed  , in his official capacity as chairman of the federation's Technical Committee, to step up to 'mediate' on the matter.
 
 Clearly Bhutia was coming from another, older mindset where abuse and harassment from coaches was the norm. Or maybe, Bhutia was clearly exceeding his brief because insiders also suggested that it wasn't even the issue of a hefty severance pay to the German coach that may have held the AIFF back initially.
 
 For his part, Bhutia may have forgotten but he has himself publicly railed, embarrassingly on primetime news television no less, against the methods and ways of his former mentor, Syed Nayeemuddin, famously seen as the rigid, old-world strict disciplinarian coach in Indian football. Going by that personal example alone, Bhutia should have been more sympathetic to the boys' allegations than play self-appointed trouble shooter and attempt to sweep the issue under the carpet.
 
 That all 21 boys have testified against their coach shows that they are unwilling to bend to any kind of external pressure to change their stand. The AIFF can do well to pick a leaf from this collective show of spunk. It is up to them to shake off their inertia, salvage some goodwill and most importantly, let some good sense prevail. 
 
