Times News Network

 Chandigarh: Members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) on Monday allegedly attacked a group from National Students Union of India (NSUI) with swords and axes in broad daylight near the Sector 27-28-29-30 roundabout in violence between the two rival outfits even before Panjab University (PU) elections are announced.
 
 Three NSUI members were injured in the attack on the five NSUI members at 12 noon. They were identified as Rajat, a resident of Mohali who had recently passed out from SD College, Gaurav and Rohan, both BA first-year students of SD College.
 
 Rohan said they were returning with three other friends from a college after enquiring about the admission procedure for MA in a car. When they reached the roundabout, around 8 to 10 ABVP members in a Mahindra Scorpio and a Toyota Fortuner blocked their path.
 
 They damaged the windowpanes of the car and attacked them. Rohan alleged one of the accused even tried to shoot at them but failed to do so. The accused allegedly took out the keys of their car and fled. The car stuck in the middle of the road led to a traffic jam for two hours till it was towed away.
 
 Rohan alleged the accused were Parminder Singh Mand, Inder Saini, Gurjot Sidhu, Billa Ratan Lubana and Jatinder. He said they had fought with them in Sector 63 around two weeks ago.
 
 The injured were taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. They received injuries on their head and arms. All of them were stated to be out of danger by the doctors.
 
 DSP (east) Satish Kumar told that they have booked Gurjot Sidhu, Jatinder and Parminder Singh Mand under the Arms Act and for attempt to murder. The raids are on to nab the culprits.
 
 Box
 
 Pistol in SUV
 
 The Panchkula police found a Toyota Fortuner used in the attack overturned at Saketri and recovered two pistols. Panchkula ACP Mukesh Malhotra said by the time the police arrived, the accused had fled. Raids are being conducted to nab the accused.
 
 
 
 March 22 | A BBA student of SD College, Sector 32, was allegedly thrashed with hockey sticks by the president of the college student council and his associates during a fest at the college. A Home Guards volunteer of the UT police was also injured
 
 April 8, 2016| Students Organisation of India (SOI) president injured after eight bullets were fired on PU campus. Police registered a case against five persons, three of whom were gangsters
 
 August 12, 2015 | Two students were injured in DAV College, Sector 10, when a clash occurred between two groups of students during the elections.
 
 August 14, 2015: Student leader of SDCU’s Abhishek Sharma, was hit with a cold drink bottle on his head after which he was hospitalized. He received a couple of stitches on his head
 
 
