BENGALURU: Understaffed, it’s all work and no rest for   which works an average 10-and-a-half hours every day, dealing with crime, VIP security and sniffing out  .

 While continuous work pressure has forced the cops to push for doubling of the squad’s strength from 60 to 120, demand from religious institutions, railways and private firms has resulted in a proposal for an exclusive Canine Training Centre at the City Armed Reserve grounds in Adugodi, east Bengaluru.
 
 Additional director general of police  , who headed the crime and technical services division, which is in-charge of the canine squad, till December 30, said: “There are 60 dogs in the Bengaluru squad which we want to double. There are 260 dogs out of the sanctioned 300 across the state; we want to increase the strength.”
 
 The Bengaluru squad is overworked and with the work load only increasing, the need to augment is more immediate than ever. “They generally begin their day at 8am and work upto 6.30pm. Each one of them goes to the field every day,” he said.
 
 The dogs are divided into three categories, tracking (which involves VIP security checks and crime investigations), narcotics and explosives. Their general duties include regular visits to the airport; checking of Vidhana Soudha, Vikas Soudha, high court and other key establishments besides routine crime detection, narcotics detection and VIP security. There are also continuous mock drills on explosives.
 
 “The way Bengaluru has grown and the number of VIPs it sees every week, there’s high demand for the  . Also, there’s a rise in number of intelligence alerts,” Rao said.
 
 The department is looking to procure Belgian Shepherds for the anti-naxal force. “We have German Shepherds now but the Belgian ones are more proven across the world for such operations,” he said.
 
 City Armed Reserves (south) DCP P Papanna, said there’s a need for an exclusive Canine Training Centre. “Many other states have this. Our plan is to have a centre that also houses kennels for the dogs. There’s a lot of demand from religious institutions like Siddaganga mutt in Tumakuru, Dharmasthala, Mysuru Palace and other places which see a lot of VIP movement and also a huge number of visitors. At this centre, apart from dogs, personnel from these places can be trained so that we don’t have to rush every time there’s an alert,” he said.
 
 This will ease the burden on the police squad and reduce the response time, which is key if any alert turns out to be more than just a threat, he added.
 
