GAYA:   of   has demanded early publication of   of teachers of the university, including those working in the 44 constituent colleges. The demand has been made by association president Sunil Singh. Besides notification of the seniority and gradation list of the teachers, the association chief has also demanded uploading of the seniority list on the university’s official website.

 Regretting the non-finalisation of seniority list, Singh said absence of a properly notified list reflects poorly on the functioning of the university’s establishment section. A mechanism to address the seniority related grievances of the faculty members within a stipulated time frame has also been demanded by the teachers’ body. “Seniority disputes in the university lead to avoidable litigation, heartburn, envy and other negative results that adversely affect the growth of a healthy academic atmosphere,” said Singh.
 
 He added that the gradation and seniority list should be finalised in the light of the provisions of Bihar State Universities Act 1976, statutes, executive orders and concerned rulings of courts which govern the recruitment and promotion of faculty members.
 
 In a related development, the chancellor’s office has sought the list of three senior most teachers of the university. The chancellor’s office has reportedly sought the list as part of Plan B regarding the ongoing process of appointment of VCs of the universities of the state. The three year tenure of the VCs and Pro VCs of seven universities of the state, including Magadh University, would end within the next four-five weeks.
 
 As the search committees for the recruitment of VCs have yet not been notified and shortlisting/interview of the applicants for the post of VC/Pro VC is a time taking exercise, the process of appointment is unlikely to be completed before the expiry of the tenure of the incumbent VCs. The outgoing VCs may be asked to hand over charge to the senior most teacher on the completion of their (VCs’) tenure.
 
 The demand of the teachers’ association is being seen in the context of possible appointment of senior most faculty member as interim VC till the appointment of a regular VC. As per the existing rules, promotions made under the time bound promotion scheme do not affect the seniority of teachers and the date of joining forms the basis of seniority of promotees under the now discarded time bound promotion scheme.
 
 
