NEW DELHI: Favouring comprehensive electoral reforms, Chief Justice of India J S Khehar said on Saturday that politicians and parties must be held accountable for   which routinely remained unfulfilled as voters forget the commitments.

 The   said election manifestos of parties become a “piece of paper” and the freebies promised by parties remain unfulfilled once the elections are over.
 
 Speaking at a seminar on “Economic Reforms With Reference to Electoral Issues”,   said the economic reforms unleashed in the last 25 years had not been able to achieve constitutional goals of overall socio-economic development as people belonging to the deprived sections are still languishing on the margins.
 
 Analysing some manifestos released in the 2014 General Elections, Justice Khehar said the parties talked about economic and tax reforms but did not mention how the benefit would percolate down to the deprived sections.
 
 “These manifestos do not say how the constitutional goals of development of all sections of society would be achieved. They talk about 8-10% economic growth but they did not indicate the links of economic growth with socio-economic justice. Interestingly, political parties do not address the impact of economic reforms for SCs, STs, women and other sections of society. Economic reforms must be tweaked to ensure political and social justice. Otherwise it would produce socio-economic ills in society,” he said.
 
 The CJI compared developments in India and Pakistan after partition and said feudal system perpetuated in the neighbouring country with a group of people controlling most of its resources while India embarked on a path of inclusive growth. 
 
 He said the land reform law and Industrial Disputes Act introduced in the country ensured equitable distribution of wealth among people.
 
 He also expressed concern over politicians using unfair practices to attract voters.
 
 Without naming  , the CJI said the poll panel had recently issued notice to a CM for appealing to voters to take money from his rivals but caste vote in his favour.
 
 At the two-day seminar, organised by the Confederation of Indian Bar, President   also emphasised the need for poll reforms.
 
 He said political stability was needed to push reforms and added that the country paid a “heavy price” due to instability at the Centre during 1989-99 when coalition governments were in power.
 
 Senior SC judge Justice   said free and fair polls are imperative for growth of democracy and that money and muscle power had no role in electoral politics.
 
