NEW DELHI: A city   has found that   don’t have adequate   for the job and carry out inspections in a “very routine manner”. It has ordered the   Police commissioner to take stock of the situation. 

 The court made the observation while hearing a case in which one Deepak Dhall was accused of causing the death of his friend due to negligence. Dhall drove a car while his friend sat next to him. The car met with an accident, killing the friend and injuring Dhall. 
 
 Following procedure, an MV inspector assessed the damage to the car—a crucial evidence according to Dhall’s defence counsel Prashan Mendiratta. The lawyer cross-examined the MV inspector, T U Siddiqui, who said that the car brakes were in working condition. “I don’t remember if the car keys were in the vehicle. I don’t remember if I had asked the police for the keys. I don’t remember if I tried to start the vehicle,” Siddiqui said in his deposition. 
 
 But when Mendiratta asked Siddiqui about the distance he had covered to assess the brakes, Siddiqui said, “I got to know by pressing the brakes when the vehicle was stationary.”
 
 Mendiratta also asked Siddiqui if he had done automobile engineering or any related diploma. Siddiqui said he had a diploma in civil and rural engineering, and has been inspecting vehicles for over 40 years. 
 
 The court was not impressed with the way the assessment had been carried out. It remarked that a person without formal qualification could not be called an expert in the area only because he had been giving opinion in such cases for the last several years. “He cannot be called an expert when he does not even have any expertise/professional qualification regarding the same. It is further noted that not only this   but also other MVIs doing inspection on behalf of Delhi Police are doing so in a very routine manner,” the court said. 
 
 “If inspections are being allowed in a routine manner, it affects the whole investigation agency and results in the loss of important evidence. Delhi Police needs to pick and choose MVIs carefully and should not allow vehicles to be inspected by such MVIs who do not even possess sufficient technical qualifications,” the court observed. 
 
 It ordered a copy of the judgment delivered to the police commissioner. 
 
