NEW DELHI: Exhorting BJP MPs to work relentlessly for the party’s future goals, Prime Minister   announced plans on Thursday for a fresh Dalit outreach to be crafted around BR Ambedkar’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations and for enlisting youth in the organisation’s growth strategy.

 “
  (I will not rest myself, nor will I let others do so),” Modi told BJP MPs who felicitated him and party chief   for the party’s success in the latest round of assembly polls.
 
 The PM immediately proceeded to set the next target for MPs as he asked them to organise week-long celebrations to mark Ambedkar’s birth anniversary from April 8 to April 14 and popularise the use of BHIM app developed by the government to promote digital economy.
 
 “Ambedkar is yet to get what he deserved,” Modi said, echoing BJP’s charge that   regimes promoted members of the   family at the cost of other stalwarts. 
 
 He also said the government will introduce a coin on April 14 to mark the 125th anniversary of the leading framer of the Constitution.
 
 The week-long calendar of celebrations over his 125th birth anniversary is part of a series of steps the Modi government and the   have taken to embrace  . 
 
 The timing of the move to scale up is significant: it comes in the immediate wake of the rout of BSP because of, among other things, diminution of support among non-Jatav Dalits. BSP holds Ambedkar as its leading icon.
 
 The debacle is likely to cause some churn among Jatavs, BSP’s core constituency, and this may tempt BJP to probe openings in what is regarded as the Dalit outfit’s impenetrable fort.
 
 The PM’s pitch for popularising BHIM app, named after Ambedkar, is also significant because of the near consensus that popular endorsement of demonetisation was one of the factors which contributed to the saffron landslide in UP.
 
 The huge mandate is sure to spur the government to follow through the radical decision to scrap high value currencies with measures to promote digitisation of the economy.
 
 The PM asked MPs to enlist youths as “ambassadors” of the government's public welfare work and good governance.
 
 Modi said youngsters depended on mobile phones more than newspapers and TV channels to get information. He stressed on the need to use mobile communication to tap them. He also asked party leaders to contact them while they are in Class XII.
 
 Shah stressed that MPs and others in the party should dedicate themselves to future challenges. He said the party’s win was the outcome of people’s vote against casteism, family rule and corruption, and marked an endorsement of Modi's leadership.
 
 He referred to welfare schemes and the “bold” demonetisation decision among measures which earned government support.
 
