PUNE: After going through the roof, the prices of various pulses have come down by up to 30% over the last two weeks, owing to a bumper harvest in the aftermath of a good monsoon last year.

 And if one goes by traders' estimates, the trend may well continue in the days to come.
 
 “Import of some critical pulses from countries like Australia, Canada, Africa and Myanmar will further bridge the demand-supply gap. This may even force farmers to sell their produce at rates less than the minimum support prices ( ) stipulated by the government,“ office-bearers of a pulses traders' association told TOI.
 
 The   had shot up after the poor rains for two consecutive years before 2016. “However, the situation is comfortable now for the government to consider removing stock holding limits imposed on wholesalers and millers,“ Raikumar Nahar, joint secretary of the  's Chamber, said. “Owing to a huge supply this time around, the farmers may have to sell their produce at lesser rate than the MSP. To tide over this situation, the holding limit for wholesalers must be removed. This will not just benefit the customers, but also the farmer who will be encouraged to cultivate more in the next season,“ he said.
 
 With the drop in prices, retailers must pass on the benefit to their customers, Pravin Dongre, chairman of the  , said, adding that the import of pulses is likely to touch 30 lakh tonne by January-end. “Considering this, the government must start procuring stock at MSP and build up a buffer stock or put the same in its public distribution system. Organized retailers must also reduce prices of pulses at their stores,“ he said.
 
 With the drop in prices, the sales of pulses have increased too. “Only the prices of chana dal are still on the higher side. However, these are also expected to witness correction in the coming days,“ P L Ojha, proprietor of a kirana store on Sus Road, said.
 
 Meanwhile, homemaker Varsha Piagude said the   has come as a big relief. “Since October last year, I have been spending almost Rs 1,000 per month for only replenishing my stock of pulses at home. However this time around, I spent around Rs 300 less for the same,“ she said, adding that the icing on the cake is that vegetable prices too are within limits now.
 
 
 
