PUNE: A city court has directed the   (MCA) to deposit Rs 172.32 crore in a nationalised bank till the conclusion of an arbitration proceeding initiated against it by construction major   & Company Private Limited.

 The arbitration proceeding relates to a dispute over payment of dues for the construction of MCA's   at Gahunje. The construction firm recently moved the civil court for an interim protection to secure the amount in dispute.
 
 The MCA has to deposit the amount within a month in a fixed deposit account jointly held by it and Shapoorji Pallonji firm, district judge   ruled on January 20.
 
 Judge Wadne held that an interim protection was warranted considering the cumulative effect of facts such as issuance of virtual completion certificate by the project manager, acceptance of final bill by MCA and part payments made towards the same. Besides, considering the MCA’s approach towards delaying payment of dues.
 
 The judge dismissed MCA’s argument that it is a trust registered under the Maharashtra Public Trusts Act and the court had no jurisdiction over the matter which relates to administration of trust. “A civil court is empowered under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act to grant an interim protection for securing the disputed amount,” the court held.
 
 In September 2009, the MCA awarded the contract for construction of the stadium to the Mumbai-based construction major. The firm completed the work on October 31, 2012 as against an extended deadline of August 31, 2011. The project manager issued a virtual completion certificate, excluding works to be completed during the defect liability period.
 
 The firm then submitted a final bill for Rs 234.10 crore and the project manager certified and approved Rs 225 crore. The MCA accepted the approved amount as a final bill and paid a part of it to the firm. However, a dispute arose over the outstanding dues payable by the MCA and the latter too claimed Rs 81.50 crore from the firm towards liquidated damages, cost of remedying defects and damages for loss caused due to inordinate delay in construction.
 
