NAGPUR: The Hingna forest range officials and wildlife rescue team on Saturday seized a pair of monkeys from Chokar Dhani, Rajasthani heritage style resort, 17km from here on Amravati Road.

 Monkeys are a protected species under Schedule II of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. The rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), which were seized from the resort, is one of the best-known species of old world monkeys. It is listed as Least Concern in the IUCN Red List of threatened species in view of its wide distribution, presumed large population, and its tolerance of a broad range of habitats.
 
 The seizure was conducted based on a complaint by animal rights activists   and  , who, after learning that the resort conducts monkey shows with the help of a madari named   for guests attending parties and weddings. The activists duo had also recorded the show and collected all evidence about presence of monkeys.
 
 The monkeys were tied with ropes, which according to the activists was cruelty. As per Section 22 of the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals Act, 1960, and its supersession wide a notification by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) on March 2, 1991, the Central government had banned exhibition of animals trained as performing animals. These animals included bears, monkeys, tigers, panthers and lions.
 
 However, based on a complaint by Galani and Vaidyaar, the team led by foresters BA Tekade (Nagpur) and AS Ninawe (Hingna) and others reached the resort and seized the monkeys.
 
 One of the directors of the resort Mohan Savlani said, “The monkeys were not our pets. Though a madari conducted the shows, we were not aware about the legal side of the issue. We handed over the monkeys to the forest personnel.” 
 
 Forester Tekade said, “We did not register a primary offence report (POR) as the resort operators handed over the monkeys admitting the monkeys were performing for the last 15 days,” said Tekade.
 
 “The monkeys have been kept in an enclosure at transit treatment centre at Seminary Hills. Releasing them in natural habitat will be risky as they have been completely humanized,” said Vaidyaar.
 
