Mumbai: Even as lower cut-offs brought cheer to several students on Tuesday, they were confused and disappointed over admission-related delays and uncorrected errors in the first  . Students queued up at colleges early in the morning but college authorities had to wait until afternoon to get the list of students allotted to them.

 Though students finally accessed their seat allotment details around 1am on Tuesday, many of them were unsure if the admissions would start at 10am, as had been officially declared. “A lot of students came in early in the morning to find out what should be done. We hadn’t received our list but when we contacted the education department, we were asked to start the admission process by seeing the allotment on the student’s login,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice principal, V G Vaze College, Mulund. Colleges got to see their lists only after 11am and could upload details of students admitted only by afternoon.
 
 The delay angered students and parents. “First the cut-off list dates got postponed and then yesterday we were given false false hopes that it would be declared at 5pm, then 7pm and then 9pm and this dragged on till past midnight. Even though I got in, I feel the whole waiting process has left me exhausted,” said Disha A, who got into commerce at HR College, Churchgate.
 
 Colleges said the turnout of students on Tuesday was low. “As the list was announced very late into the night, fewer students came in today. We hope the picture would be more clear on Wednesday,” said Hemlate Bagla, in-charge principal, KC College, Churchgate.
 
 Many of the mistakes spotted when the general merit list was announced have not been corrected, complained students. For instance, the student who was ranked one of the general merit list with a 100% score had, in fact, secured just 71.4%. When the first merit list was announced on Tuesday, she was allotted St Xavier’s College for the arts stream where the cut-off is 94%. “I had gone to the centre to change the marks and the officials corrected them but when I reached home I found out that the mistake wasn’t rectified. I went to another centre where the official said they couldn’t help,” said the student. Officials have said the student’s marks will be rectified and she would have to wait for the next round.
 
 Similarly, a student who was allotted a seat at RA Podar College in commerce complained that the college did not have an option to opt out of mathematics. Several students who were unhappy with the college allotted to them turned up at the office of the deputy director of education. This year, students cannot change the college once their have paid their fees. 
 
 Junior college teachers said Nysa Asia, the agency handling the process, is to be blamed for the chaos. “There was very little planning by the company who was handling it. The company has its base in Noida and the education department had a tough time coordinating with them,” said a teacher who did not wish to be named.
 
