PANAJI: With   activists and others worrying over the rampant excavations that are ravaging the hillside in various villages, authorities have moved in to investigate the alleged destruction of the Batim hill, following complaints.

 Activists have been expressing outrage for about a week on social networking sites over the blatant hill cutting at Batim, as the hill has already been destabilized after decade-long mud extraction. “Batim hill is being ravaged,” a post stated. 
 
 Activists visited the site under survey no 128/1 and were upset to find that excavations were being carried out at two places on Batim hill. The first one is an old site on land under survey no 128/1 facing the Batim lake and the second on slightly higher level under survey no 141/1, beyond the lake.
 
 After Prajal Sakhardande, president of  , complained about the rampant hill cutting to the   collector, a flying squad team visited both sites located close to each other.
 
 The site near the lake has been destroyed by mud-extraction activity for a few decades. A massive chunk of the hill slope had been scooped out for various projects and construction activity, leaving a huge crater and the hill slope unstable. 
 
 A major excavation was carried out in 2007-2008 when hundreds of truckloads of mud were taken away from the site for the Agasaim-Goa Velha bypass.
 
 A flying squad official said that they couldn’t do much about the activity near the lake. “This excavation is being carried out for earthern embankments along the Verna-Navelim bypass and   has issued the letter to the contractor,” an official said.
 
 The flying squad also did not find that the hill cutting merits action under Section 17 (A) of Town and Country Planning ( ) Act, 1974, in the second case. “The cutting is not on a steep hill slope beyond the permissible level and mostly levelling of the land is being done,” an official said.
 
 But the deputy collector’s office (flying squad) has suggested that North Goa collector, TCP and local panchayat conduct an inquiry to find if any rules are violated.
 
 Activists are unhappy about the rampant destruction of hills. “This is happening everywhere and TCP minister should intervene and stop all illegal activity,” Sakhardande said.
 
 Rama Kankonkar, from the  , alleged that the contractor extracting mud for the bypass had no papers to show. “The hill is being cut ten metres above the ground, and that can destabilize the hill and the slope may collapse,” he said.
 
