Much contrary to what most women are told and many themselves believe, a woman becomes stronger after having a baby. No mother should feel less equipped to take care of herself after having kids. They can have a better body even after kids. I did it, they can too!

  In fact it becomes all the more important to take care of your health once you become a parent. You have to be able to deliver your best, stay healthy and strong for your kids. No mother should blindly believe in the saying that body changes as we age. You have to find your core again; regain your strength after a baby. There was a time when I struggled to hold a 10-pound baby and today I workout with heavy weights.
 
  Having been physically active all my life, I was quite afraid I wouldn't have time to go to the gym when I had a baby but I found ways to make it work. I looked for simple workouts which could be easily done at home. On weekends, when my husband would be home, I would hit the gym and went for evening walks with my baby.
 
  I want to encourage women to be open to different interpretations of a "better body" - it doesn't have to be a skinnier body, just a healthy, stronger body. Fitness is such a key part of my life, post-children, and I see that in so many of my friends. You want to get your body back, your strength, maintain your energy and those endorphins.
 
  I started eating a lot more protein, like veggie burgers, chickpeas and chicken. Having more high-fiber foods -- like cereal, whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta in soups -- made a huge difference; I stopped having hunger spikes during the day. I kept a bottle of water with me at all times and drank at least eight to 10 glasses a day. I started to sleep better and today have more patience towards my kids and family. I follow a simple rule - think positive and feel stronger. 
 
  You're in your own little world after baby arrives, and it's important to try to keep yourself busy. So try to get out there... Go to moms groups, take a walk -- don't sit home all day, because that's when you'll start snacking. So don't lose your body to take care of your kids - instead be stronger for them. 
 
 By Vatsala BV
 
