On their maiden trip to India, The Magnets, a British a cappella band, had a lot on their to-do list - from looking for possible collaborations with Indian artists to finding the best eating and shopping destinations in Indian cities. The six-member band reached India last week for a public performance in Delhi and Mumbai and a private show in Bengaluru. In a chat, they tell us how they had known Delhi to be "one of the biggest and oldest cities in India" and that one of the members had recorded the beatboxing bit for  's role in ' '.

  
 We caught up with the members while they were chilling at a hotel in Greater Kailash 1, before they were to step out to shop in Delhi. "Out of the six of us, three have been to India before, but as a band it is our first tour to India and we are really excited about it. It is just that we have very little time to explore India on this tour. We just got a day to look around Delhi and we will be visiting Agra to see the Taj Mahal. We might return to India later this year or early next year for another tour with some more time in hand, we are keeping our fingers crossed right now," says Callum McIntosh. The band's first performance in India was in Mumbai and the response they received were overwhelming. "It was a lively audience. I think it was tough for most of them to believe that the performance, the music was about human sounds and not the beats of drums or any other instrument. They came across as very friendly and warm people," adds Michael Conway.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The band members say that though their interactions with Indian musicians have been less, they have great respect and love for Indian music. "While we love the beats and rhythms of traditional Indian musical instruments like the tabla, we also love Bollywood music for its vibrancy and energy. We have known Bollywood music from the films that we have seen in the UK and it’s very popular there. I used to be a music teacher years ago in this school in East London and there were people from across the world there. We did get to hear a lot of sounds from different parts of the world and also Bollywood. I also learnt about Indian music through my friend Niraj Chag, who is based in London and works with Indian classical music and contemporary styles. He even worked with AR Rahman, I think he is the biggest here and even we would like to collaborate and work with him some day. If given a chance we would love to collaborate on a Bollywood film," says Callum.
 
  From Coldplay to Justin Bieber, the reason why India is on every big artist's touring list is because it is a great platform right now, the band says. "For any artist, India is a great platform with massive audience that loves music, understands it as you all have a very rich history and tradition of music," adds Michael.
 
  
 One of the band members had already worked in a Bollywood film. Ball-Zee (Patrick Hirst), the beatboxer in the band, did beatboxing for 'Jagga Jasoos'. "Two years back, I got to work for this movie called 'Jagga Jasoos'. I went to a studio in the UK, read the script, saw the blueprint of the scene and got to know that I had to do a video for actor Ranbir Kapoor. I had to do the video for him and he had to lip-sync to my beatboxing. I have not spoken to him, but it was a bit hard for him since he had not done it and beatboxing requires great amount of practice. I haven't seen the film yet, so I don't know how did it go. While I am in India, I got to know that the film released this year, I had worked on it two years ago! That was my first experience of working in a Bollywood film," says Ball-Zee.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Though the band members haven’t got a chance to interact with any beatboxers in India, they say that through the hundreds of messages they receive on their social media pages they know that India has a good number of beatboxers. "Beatboxing in general is a young art form, but many beatboxers are coming from India. When I post something on my social media account, I get so many messages asking me to come to Delhi, Bangalore or Mumbai and do a workshop. In 10 years we will have some amazing beatboxers from India, who just need a platform to perform," says Ball-Zee.
 
 
