LUCKNOW: In May 1995, when prime minister P V Narsimha Rao visited Kanpur to attend a function, the entire city right from Chakeri Air Force Airport was plastered by with black flags by angry Muslims protesting against the alleged inaction of the Congress and the PM that led to the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. The police and the security forces had to make unprecedented arrangements to ensure Rao’s safe return to Delhi.

 “Why can’t we hold similar demonstrations demanding education and jobs against successive governments that deny us the basic rights and why are we confined to our religious issues,” said Athar Husain of the Centre for Objective Research and Development (CORD) about the poor show of Muslims in the recently concluded assembly elections. No member of the community was elected from the state in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 This time, the number of Muslim MLAs has come down from 69 to 24. Besides, as no Muslim was nominated by the BJP, therefore the community will have no representation in the new government in state. An alumnus of the Aligarh Muslim University, Athar said Muslims would have to demand from government and ruling parties more than mere tokens like changing the name of Lucknow Zoo to Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden.
 
 Thinkers in the Muslim community are counting the losses of the recently concluded assembly elections. It is being estimated that had the the vote share of SP and BSP been combined, the alliance would have won more than 350 seats. “We failed to unite and mount pressure collectively on the BSP and SP leadership to come together and challenge the Modi force,” is the general refrain of community leaders.
 
 Clerics from the state’s two seminaries of international repute–Darul Uloom Deoband in Saharanpur and Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama in Lucknow – believe it was not the Muslim vote as much as the base vote of BSP and SP that gravitated towards the BJP resulting in heavy losses to the two parties. They also acknowledge division of   between the two as a major cause of devastating results for Akhilesh and Mayawati. “Our feedback is that Muslim vote was divided between the   and BSP,” said a senior cleric of the seminary in Deoband. 
 
 Senior faculty members at Nadwa college of Lucknow were of the view that main reason for SP and BSP’s surprisingly poor performance was the fact that the Yadavs and dalits abandoned their respective leaders. “It is high time regional parties came out of their respective vote bank politics and addressed a major secular audience from the political perspective,” said Maulana Salman Nadvi, head of the department for Islamic studies at Nadwatul Ulama. 
 
 Though clerics find it difficult to believe that Muslim women had voted for the BJP on the issue of triple talaq, academics shared a different view. “The data for 2014 Lok Sabha elections shows that around 10% Muslims voted for the BJP and there is no reason to believe this did not happen this time as well,” said Professor Asmer Beg, head of the department of political science at Aligarh Muslim University which was recently in news over its minority status being opposed by the BJP.
 
 Kamal Farooqui of the CMEII said one-third of the Samajwadi Party MLAs are Muslims and the BSP has a good number of Muslims too, which indicates that the community has been voting for both parties, but in turns. He said every fifth person in Uttar Pradesh and every eighth Indian is Muslim, so the community cannot be ignored or neglected, but this happens all the time.
 
 A section of the community is baffled over the sweeping victory of BJP in the Muslim-dominated constituencies in the riot- hit western and eastern UP and is wondering if fellow Muslims have shifted loyalty to the saffron party. The visibility of Muslims in rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi and in his road shows gives ground to their ”suspicion”. Some of them feel the Ujjwala scheme, Jan Dhan programme and training programmes for unskilled labourers on one hand and the BJP’s support to women on the triple talaq issue on the other hand, might have attracted some members of their community to the BJP.
 
