MUMBAI: A   has claimed that a delivery boy whom she caught   inside her society and handed over to the cops was let off as she couldn’t go to the Dindoshi police station at late hours.

 Senior inspector Rajaram Vanmane of Dindoshi police station said he will inquire into the matter. The   (38), a   resident, said the incident took place around 11pm on July 9. “While taking a walk at night, I noticed a shadow in one of the garages in the society. It was a young man, not more than 22, with his pants down staring at me. As I started walking towards him, he panicked and pulled up his pants. He tried to escape but I managed to nab him. He fell down and apologised,” said the woman who comes from a defence family.
 
 Hearing the commotion, a neighbour rushed downstairs with a guard and the woman said they beat up the pervert who identified himself as a delivery boy working at a nearby restaurant. “We called up the restaurant owner, who came and apologised. He said he would sack the man and requested to not involve the police. He said he had not checked the man’s antecedents,” the woman said, adding that she then dialled the emergency no. 100.
 
 “I got through on the third attempt. A van was sent from Dindoshi police station but all the cops were male and their approach casual. I told them I wasn’t comfortable narrating the incident to them and need a a woman cop. As it was almost midnight, I said I would come to the police station in the morning and lodge an FIR. A cop noted down my details and left with the accused,” she said.
 
 Around 1.30am, she claimed that the police called her up asking her to come and file an FIR immediately as they couldn’t detain the man without a case. She said she was uncomfortable going so late in the night but the police said in that case, they will release him. “The cop said come with your father or husband. I told him my husband would lose his cool and thrash the man there. He then said he was releasing the man and hung up,” she said. 
 
 Later, a neighbour told her that the man had been hanging around in the society all evening on the day of the incident. “Though it is illegal to detain someone without any charges against him or her but the police could have sent a female officer to the woman’s house at night and recorded her FIR. There was no need to summon her to the police station at midnight for lodging an FIR,” said criminal lawyer Kshitij Mehta.
 
 
