NAGPUR: The procurement of 204 Tata Xenon vehicles for patrolling in wildlife parks and sanctuaries has invited audit objections from the office of accountant general. The state government vide a GR issued on September 19, 2015, and March 31, 2016, had procured 204 Tata vehicles for range forest officers (RFOs) for patrolling.

 Of these, 30 vehicles costing Rs1.76 crore (Rs5.86 lakh per vehicle) were transferred to wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. These two-wheel drive vehicles have been provided to wildlife parks in Kolhapur, Nagpur, Melghat, Tadoba (core & buffer), Tipeshwar, Pune, Thane, Karad, and  , among other places.
 
 As per the   (NTCA) publication ‘Economic valuation of tiger reserves in India’, a report published in January 2015 by   (IIFM), uneven terrain of tiger reserves requires specialized vehicles.
 
 The report states that four-wheel drive vehicles are better suited for tiger reserves. The office of the AG (Audit-II) says even the standard operating procedure (SOP) of NTCA regarding straying of tigers in human dominated landscapes provides that a four-wheel drive vehicle may be used to approach the animal for immobilization.
 
 A section drivers too complained to TOI that these vehicles were of no use in forest areas. “On city roads they may be good but our experience is that they hop like a horse on forest roads and also get stuck in slush. They don’t have four-wheel drive needed on rugged forest roads. The cost of maintenance is also high,” they said.
 
  (production & management) KN Khaware said, “the vehicles were procured in four phases but I was not at the helm of affairs then.” In-charge CCF VJ Varvankar did not share any details about the deal, though he promised to do so.
 
 Retired APCCF BP Singh, in whose tenure the vehicles were procured, said, “These vehicles were basically for territorial forest areas. I was not the only one to recommend them and a committee headed by PCCF took the final call.”
 
 Singh stated though four-wheel drive feature was missing, Tata vehicles had 16 additional features compared to competitor Mahindra that was also in the race for supply. “We recommended the vehicles as hardly 8% of the forest area have terrain that need four-wheel drive. Besides, there were budgetary limitations which forced us to procure these vehicles,” Singh added.
 
 The AG office has sought a reply from the PCCF office for spending Rs1.76 crore on 30 vehicles that did not meet the standard norms for wildlife parks. RTI activist Avinash Prabhune demanded an inquiry into the deal. “Kickbacks in such deals cannot be ruled out. I will write to chief minister’s office on the issue,” he said.
 
