KOLKATA: Calcutta high court has stayed the proceedings and the non-bailable arrest warrant a city court had issued against Union minister from Bengal   for six weeks. The minister had pleaded for quashing the proceedings against him on Monday.

 The interim stay was in response to the warrant of arrest the Alipore court had issued against the Union minister based on a complaint from Trinamool MP  . The Karimpur MP had accused the Union minister of insulting her modesty on national television two months ago in January. Police submitted the charge sheet to the court after the Union minister didn’t show up on getting three notices under section 41 A of the Criminal Procedure Code asking the accused to appear before the police.
 
 Babul Supriyo’s counsel and senior   lawyer Pradip Ghosh took the plea of a technical point in the police charge sheet in which it was mentioned that the minister was “absconding.” Ghosh wondered how the police could say so when the Union minister informs the police whenever he comes to Kolkata. Ghosh held that it was a political ploy against the minister.
 
 While Ghosh was making his argument, Justice Joymalya Bagchi made a strident observation on Babul Supriyo’s — “Mahua, are you on mahua?” — remark in a television channel. “Such a remark is unbecoming of a people’s representative. And more so when it is made against a woman, I this the way you talk to a woman?” the judge observed.
 
 The Union minister made the comment in January after Trinamool members had been vociferously demanding a probe into singer-turned-politician Babul Supriyo’s alleged role in the Rose Valley scam immediately after   took Trinamool Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay and party MP Tapas Pal in custody in connection with the Rose Valley Ponzi scam.
 
 Justice Bagchi then reminded the minister that he belongs to a House that had stalwarts like Hiren Mookerjee as members and he belongs to a party that has a towering personality like Atal Behari Vajpayee.
 
 Saying so, Justice Bagchi said that the matter will come up for hearing after four weeks. At that time, the complainant and the respondent will get the opportunity to defend them.
 
 According to legal experts, the non-bailable arrest warrant issued by the Alipore court against the minister remains because its execution is valid up to May 8, beyond the high court’s six-week stay. The minister has to face the trial in the high court when the matter comes for hearing in the third week of April. Complainant Mahua Moitra didn’t want to comment on the high court’s interim stay. “I have full faith in the legal system. Law will take its course,” Moitra said. 
 
