INDORE: Shortage of Rs 10 stamp papers, used mainly for filing RTIs, has been the talking point of activists in the city, who feel that the government is trying to choke the supply of these deliberately in an attempt to stop them. The district court bar association during their strike in August had also raised this issue and had sought for the regularization of its supply. 

 “There are very few stamp vendors in the city. Those who have it are selling it at high costs going up to Rs 20 per stamp paper. We have to reduce our number of RTIs due to this,” activist   said. 
 
 This lack of supply is creating problems not only for the   activists but has also affected stamp paper vendors who have to make multiple rounds to the collector office to procure them. One of the reasons attributed to the lack of stamp papers is the fast digitization of the system, in which e-stamp papers are quickly replacing manual stamp papers. 
 
 “Before July 1, 2015, stamp vendors received stock from the treasury department every alternate day. However, now we have to wait for a week to get the stock of stamp papers,”  , an advocate and stamp paper vendor from the city said. 
 
 The stamp papers of denomination over Rs 100 have also been affected as the higher denomination stamp papers are now available as e stamps. The commission given to vendors on each stamp paper is two per cent, which made the business of manual stamp papers profitable only because of high denomination stamps.
 
 The administration authorities however, claim to have identified the problem and are working towards improving the supply chain management of stamps and tickets. 
 
 Not only is the problem persistent for stamp paper supply, the availability of stamp tickets has also been fluctuating. 
 
 “The stamp tickets of Rs. 2, Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 were not available for a very long time, due to which we had to paste stamp tickets of Re. 1 for all copying and application purposes. Only recently the Rs. 10 stamp tickets have come into the market, but the stamps of Rs. 2 and Rs. 5 are still not available,”  , another stamp vendor from the city said. 
 
