Come Ramanavami, and the first that comes to mind is majjige, paanaka and kosambari (buttermilk, fruit juice and salads). But Ramanavami is also eagerly awaited by Bengalureans as it kickstarts a series of musical concerts across the city. Musicians from across India descend on the city to perform; and particularly one among them is in high demand —  , a Muslim whose Hindu devotional songs are a big hit.

 A great devotee of Allah and Vishnu, Husainsab, who has been a veteran in Hindustani music, renders devotional literature of Shri Vishnu and other Dasa Kritis in temples and maths all over India, and many compositions are his own. He is known for spreading the popularity of   with his enthralling renditions everywhere. Sixty-two-year-old Husainsab believes he is a true secular and observes fasting on Ekadasi as well as during the holy month of Ramzan.
 
 Husainsab hails from a remote village called Kanakagiri in   district, North Karnataka, where his music education of every kind since his childhood has come down to him from his grandparents and forefathers. Husainsab told Bangalore Mirror: “I have read Bhagavad Gita as much as Quran, and I have a proper understanding of the stories; that is how it has become my passion towards singing Dasa Kritis.“
 
 Then he adds: “There should not be any discrimination in literature, music and arts. They are the language of a man and his soul. Anyone can practice and perform whatever he/she is interested in.
 
 “Although I am a Muslim by birth, I am a true human being, a great devotee of Shri Hari. I see Hari in Allah and Allah in Hari. My spiritual Guru is Shri Murugunda Krishnadas and I gained my expertise in music under   who is a household name in Hindustani music from Bijapur.“
 
 Husainsab says that although there is so much negative portrayal about Hindu-Muslim relations, there are actually more reallife stories about harmony between the two commities, which go unnoticed. He cites the recent example wherein he was invited to render a music composition at the Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt in Jogeshwari, Mumbai. 
 
 “The Mutt had come up in a Muslim-dominated area, but the entire Muslim community actually played host for the Mutt programme by helping the mutt officials in their chores, including setting up the stage. We actually have numerous such examples of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood, which needs to be promoted.“ Husainsab talks about philosophy and literature like a man who has gulped down an ocean full of literature. His passion for singing Daasara Padagalu, Tatttvapadagalu, and Kritis of the saints dates back to his childhood. “During my childhood, there were poems sung in the name of Rama and Allah together. Our gurus nurtured this secularism within us and that is why we are carrying forward the same legacy since then. “That is why I am so involved in every line I sing. I know the importance of every verse and what has been in the history.“ Husainsab has gained great recognition and reputation in various maths in the city. 
 
 Officials from Sri Rama Temple at RC Puram, Bengaluru, say, “We value his knowledge and the faith in God that he has. Because of his conviction, he sings so well that the audience tap out talas syncing with his rendition.“ He has rendered his devotional compositions in temples and maths all over the country including Tirupati, Mantralaya, Udupi and Hampi.
 
 He has also got an international exposure at London in Bharatiya Vidya Peeth. Krishna Murthy, a temple official from Bengaluru, said, “With simple Kannada that he speaks and the deep understanding of Haridasa literature and philosophy, Husainsab creates a devotional ambience wherever he performs.“ He has received prestigious awards like, “Gayana Gangadhara“, “Ragayogi“, “Pratibha Shree“, “Vishwaroopa Rashtriya Utsava Prashasthi“, “Karnataka Rajyothsava Prashasthi-1999“ and “Kempegowda Puraskara from BBMP2012“, to name just a few.
 
 Working in a private firm, Husainsab also heads many social organisations, like Haridasa Seva Samiti, Vijayaraya Seva Samiti in Raichur and district representative of  .His own composed albums include, “Dasavani“, “Kayo Kaveri Ranga“, “Kori Karevevu Guru Shri Raghavendrane“, and many more.
 
 “I am thankful to my family, because they have always been a supporting hand in my performances. All my three sons are engineers. Only one, Habibsab, is interested in singing film songs. He is not into classical or devotional. One must have a thirst to learn the Kritis, only then heshe can sing. In case he learns, I would definitely perform with him one day.“
 
