PANAJI:   has started cracking down on the drugs trade after receiving directives from the election commission of India (ECI).

 TOI, in its edition dated January 7, 2017, highlighted how the drug menace has now moved from the coastal areas of Goa to other parts of the state, including the hinterland. Falling victim to it are school and college-going teenagers.
 
 Stating that the ECI is serious in curbing the drug trade in the state, chief electoral officer Kunal said that the department will take stern and quick action on any tip-off.
 
 “We are committed to tackling the issue. We have formulated an integrated plan with the collectors, anti-narcotics commissioner of Goa police and the narcotics control bureau of India. All are working together and if there’s any money transaction involved, then the income tax department will also be roped in. This time, we have integrated all means of government bodies and will be taking actions against wrong-doers,” Kunal said.
 
 Police teams have visited areas in the state, as pointed out by TOI, where youth are known to gather and consume drugs. In Bicholim and Sattari, drug trafficking has reduced, said sources. After TOI’s report, police swung into action. Former Bicholim MLA   also called on the police to wage a war against drug trafficking.
 
 In Porvorim, police teams were seen moving around Salvador do Mundo and Socorro and detaining youth gathering in isolated areas. 
 
 In south Goa, Quepem DySP   said, “We received ECI directives and have conducted surprise raids. Efforts have been made to catch culprits in different locations, but, to no success. We request citizens to come forward and alert us with information.” 
 
 Quepem municipal council chairperson   said, “Drugs are being sold in the open market. It is the duty of the police to gather information and take action.” In Vasco, police said that people found loitering around at night and drinking in public are being detained under suspicion. 
 
 “We are trying our best to curb the public from drinking in open places and consuming drugs,” a Vasco police officer said.
 
 
