CHANDIGARH/PATIALA: Punjab Police on Sunday arrested one of the   co-masterminds,  , from a Moga village, even as he and his aides were closing in on plan to escape to Hong Kong.

 Sekhon was using his identity as a Haryana native for one of his passports and the visa for Hong Kong. Several identity cards showing him as a resident of Gujarat, Delhi and other states have been recovered from him.
 
 Six inmates including a 
  and four deadly gangsters had 
  on November 27,2016, triggering an ugly war of words between SAD, Congress and AAP over patronage to crime lords and deteriorating law and order situation two months before state polls.
 
 Sekhon was armed with a .32 bore pistol and was sipping in tea with his four aides at the time sleuths from Punjab intelligence wing reached the place. 12-bore and 30-bore rifles have also been recovered from them.
 
 At the time of arrest, Sekhon sported a clean look, different from tufts of beard he had when he escaped.
 
 He had reached village Dhudike only three days ago. He has told the police that absence of both nakas and removal of paramilitary forces after February 4 elections fortified their belief for an undetected safe road journey and hideout.
 
 The 30-minute operation saw a cat and mouse chase as the gangsters first tried to shift to neighbouring flats and houses.
 
 The Punjab Police confirmed there was no exchange of fire.
 
 According to cops, Sekhon had been changing his hideouts from Kota and Ajmer in Rajasthan to Madhya Pradesh where his wife and members of his family from Ferozepur had gone to meet him two weeks ago.
 
 Police confirmed that Sekhon was routinely in touch over Whatsapp and Internet telephony with other Nabha escapees - Vicky Gonder, Kashmeer Singh and Aman Dhoutian - all of whom are still at large.
 
 In Moga, Sekhon was staying at the home of one NRI Goldy alias  . Only four days ago, these gangsters had stolen a Hyundai Verna and Hyundai i20 from Ludhiana.
 
 Other arrested members of the gang include Money Sekhon, Sultan and Kulwinder.
 
