NELLORE: They wanted to have a   but as fate would have it, their lives came to an end in a ghastly explosion. This was the saga of 11 youths who were charred to death in a blaze at an   in Porlukatta village of Nellore district on December 31. 

 Even as the death roll in the incident sent shock waves in the entire state, panic-stricken families of five more injured persons undergoing treatment at the hospital are waiting with bated breath not knowing what is in store for them.
 
 Meanwhile, the doctors attending on the patients say they are not yet out of danger as they had received more than 50 per cent burns.
 
 Located on the outskirts of Nellore city, Porlukatta is home to 30 families belonging to Yanadi community who work in the illegal   units daily wagers. Some of the men folk belonging to the community work as watchmen in nearby factories and auto drivers and earn Rs 300-Rs 400 a day which is hardly enough to run their families. "The youths in the age group of 15-20 years, usually prefer cracker-making units in the village as they offer the same amount for three hours of work. Unfortunately, their eagerness to make a fast buck for new Year celebrations turned tragic for them," said DSP S B Kota Reddy.
 
 Owner of illegal manufacturing unit Ramanayya and his close aide Bhaskar engaged 20 workers on December 29 and agreed to pay them Rs 300 as daily wages. Most of them were below 20 years of age from Porlukatta. An accidental ignition in the manufacturing unit is believed to be the reason for the calamity. 
 
 The greed of godown owners and firecracker manufacturers to make a killing by selling locally-made crackers for New Year celebrations took the lives of 11 workers while the fate of five other critically injured persons is hangs in balance. A few families have lost their bread-winners due to the fire accident. 
 
 The family members of Indla Lakshmaiah, 35, who was charred to death on the spot, are still in shock. The little daughter of Lakshmaiah is unconsolable as she is yet to come to terms with the loss of her father. "Most of the deceased have families with small children and their very future is now uncertain," said Leela, wife of Lakshmaiah.
 
 It is not just the cracker unit owners who are to be blamed for the accident which was the result of gross negligence of security measures. The police too have a share in the sin as they had failed to conduct periodical inspections. This has been proved by the fact that the Guntur Range IG had suspended a CI and an SI based on the recommendations of Nellore SP Vishal Gunni.
 
 Even though chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu himself had promised that the government will support the bereaved families, the delay in providing compensation is only adding to their woes as they had lost their breadwinners. On December 31, municipal administration minister P Narayana assured the relatives of victims of Rs 5 lakh ex gratia.
 
 "No government official visited our homes after the incident. Some people are still in hospital and we only hope that they would survive the tragedy," lamented the family members of Yekula Kula Karthik, who is undergoing treatment.
 
 
