SURAT: Diamantaires in Surat and Mumbai are once again under scanner of the global diamond industry, especially the diamond jewellery consumers and buyers from the sensitive market in US. 

 The Gemological Institute of America’s (GIA) Mumbai laboratory recently uncovered an unusually large number of undisclosed synthetic diamonds mixed in with natural melee diamonds, according to US-based Rapaport group.
 
 The report suggested that GIA detected 101 synthetic stones from a parcel of 323 melee diamonds — small sized diamonds—with an average size of 0.014 to 0.015 carats, submitted by the trader based in Mumbai and having sourcing links with Surat.
 
 The goods had been submitted to the GIA’s  , launched in December of last year and has regularly identified small quantities of undisclosed synthetic melee diamonds in some parcels submitted for analysis.
 
 Fewer cases of undisclosed mixing have been reported recently as more testing facilities and detection machines have come to market, Praveenshankar Pandya, chairman of India’s Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), said at the World Federation of Diamond Bourses’ Presidents’ meeting last month. 
 
 The first major discovery of undisclosed synthetics was in May 2012, when several hundred CVD diamonds were sent to the   (IGI) in Antwerp and Mumbai to be certified as natural diamonds. 
 
 Still, concerns of such fraudulent activity are on the rise as synthetic diamond production increases, the GIA and De Beers International Institute of Diamond Grading & Research (IIDGR) said in separate presentations at last week’s Hong Kong Diamond, Gem & Pearl show.   and Company International research, in its report in 2016, predicted that lab-grown diamonds could provide a serious potential disruptor to the established market and will likely hurt the price of melee diamonds. 
 
 What is most likely, the report suggested, is a mid-range scenario in which synthetics enlarge the overall size of the market and claim 15 per cent of the small-stone sector and 7.5 per cent of the large. That would dent prices for melee but not bigger stones. 
 
 Melee is at risk because of the possibility that Chinese manufacturers will start to mass-produce smaller diamonds, possibly without disclosing their source. It is also more expensive to detect melee compared to the stones’ value.
 
 The lab-grown diamonds accounts for a range of about $75 million to $220 million annually, which is about 1 percent of the overall natural rough diamond market. Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide said, “The consumer confidence of the diamond jewellery buyers in the US and other parts of the world will be shaken after this report. Melee, manufactured in Surat, is widely used in jewellery and wrist watches. This is going to dent the image of Indian diamond industry further.”
 
