PATIALA: Patiala, a Congress stronghold that has been faithful to Captain   for years, is looking at a stiff fight between the Congress stalwart and a doctor.

 Dr Balbir Singh, the candidate fielded by  , has found massive support in the Captain’s bastion. This is despite the fact that another doctor fielded by AAP in the 2014   elections, who was one among the four who won from Punjab, has now parted ways with AAP. Dr Dharamvir Gandhi is, in fact, campaigning for a fourth outfit.
 
 Patiala was, interestingly, the first on AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal’s list of places which he is visiting on the last leg of campaigning before the election on February 4. On Friday, braving an unusually unkind weather, Kejriwal took out his first road show in the city, accompanied by hundreds of supporters dancing to the beats of ‘jhaadu wala’, an in-house composition which can be found blaring at all AAP gatherings.
 
 Kejriwal, accompanied by Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann in an open jeep, drove through the heart of the city, targeting the older parts of Patiala that are known to be hardcore Congress support areas. For the first two hours or so, as rain pelted down on the dancing crowd, several people joined in while others waved at the blue and white entourage, nodding in encouragement. Several people, especially women, stopped just to catch a glimpse of Kejriwal.
 
 “Either AAP gets a clear majority or nobody else does. Akali is going to be wiped out completely from Punjab in this election,” said Shashi Gupta, a shopkeeper at Ambedkar Chowk. His neighbour was much more conservative in his analysis. “This is a Congress stronghold and AAP can get up to 2-3 seats out of nine in the Patiala Lok Sabha constituency. Dharamvir Gandhi’s departure has made no difference to the party’s chances. I think no party will get a clear majority in Punjab,” said Yash Gogia, a cloth shop owner.
 
 Along the massive route that took supporters through slush and waterlogged roads, AAP met several groups of Congress supporters waving black flags and Congress flags, playing the Congress theme song, ‘Captain di sarkar’. Because the procession itself was so slow due to the pathetic road conditions, at one point the Congress supporters had disappeared, leaving behind a big sound system in the middle of the road, playing their song.
 
 Those who are voting for the Congress, and there are several, say that they have been traditional Congress supporters. Some spoke about development in the city under the Captain’s influence while many said that they had been voting for Congress for years and while AAP and Kejriwal may be “good”, they were new. “This has been Captain’s area and Congress will sweep Patiala. It has to win. Akali Dal will be wiped out from Punjab and there is no other party that can replace it other than Congress,” said Satvinder Singh, a shop owner.
 
 Among those rooting for AAP, there is a desire for change and none seemed particularly affected by AAP’s performance in Delhi. In fact, most staunchly supported the party against the Centre, saying that they were being harassed and that meant that Kejriwal had done something to shake up the power centres. An infuriated Professor Jagdish Singh ‘Bedardi’, a physically challenged septuagenarian, lashed out against Akali Dal and Congress, calling them useless. “Both parties have failed us. I see hope in AAP. I haven’t received my pension for months altogether. AAP will set things right,” he said.
 
 
