PUNE: The monsoon is expected to revive over most parts of the country, including Maharashtra, central and north India, over the next four days, the   said on Monday.

 Most parts of the country, including north, northwest and central India will witness a revival in the   from July 14, the department said, adding that since the last few days, the monsoon activity had been concentrated over  .
 
 The   (IMD) has also indicated rainfall over Pune in the coming days, with a heavy rain forecast on July 15 and moderate rain on July 16.
 
 An operational extended range forecast by the IMD has indicated that from July 14 till about July 25, the monsoon activity over central India, including Maharashtra, and northwest India, is expected to be good, following its revival from July 14 or 15.
 
 It said from July 14 to 20, the monsoon is expected to revive and improve over north, northwest and central India, while it is expected to be close to normal or slightly below normal over the north-eastern states and south peninsula. “The monsoon is expected to be close to normal thereafter too, at least till July 27,” the IMD said.
 
 A K Sahai, head of climate research and services, IMD, Pune, told TOI that the rainfall in the current week has mostly been concentrated over northeastern and eastern states of the country, while central and southern India have experienced subdued rainfall.
 
 “From July 14, both central India and parts of northwest India, including Rajasthan, will witness active monsoon conditions, which are expected to continue till July 24 or 25. The rainfall in July is therefore expected to be good — around 96% of the long-period average — as had earlier been forecasted by the IMD,” he said.
 
 D S Pai, head, climate prediction, climate research division, IMD, Pune, said the monsoon had recently entered a weak phase, resulting in subdued rainfall over most parts of the country. “The monsoon trough had moved close to the Himalayan foothills, resulting in good rainfall activity only in northern most states (Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir), foothills of Himalaya, north-eastern states, among others, and subdued rainfall over the rest of the country. However, model forecasts indicate that the monsoon trough may soon shift southwards, resulting in an increase in the rainfall activity in the central and northwestern parts of the country,” Pai said.
 
 IMD officials said the current weak phase of monsoon is part of its natural variability, and is equally important for agricultural sowing. “Though monsoon’s spatial distribution seems normal this year, its temporal distribution seems a little odd,” they added.
 
