AURANGABAD: In a first in  , the city police’s   will have to work in eight-hour shifts so that they do their job effectively. 

 “The new shifts for the patrol teams will start soon and help the cops discharge their duties in an effective manner so as to curb crime in the city,” newly appointed commissioner of police   told TOI on Thursday
 
 “We will also use these teams for various drives that would be carried out from time to time by the city police,” he said.
 
 Mumbai police is the first to take such an initiative, but manpower crunch is the main hurdle in implementing the eight-hour shift timings across the state.
 
 Meanwhile, Yadav flagged off a fleet of 85 patrolling vehicles equipped with equal number of mobile phones that will improve connectivity and also serve as GPS trackers to help the police control room keep tab of the patrolling vehicles. The GPS would function through a mobile-based application installed in these phones.
 
 “Through these devices, we will keep a track if the policemen are actually patrolling or not. Visible policing plays a big role in bringing down streets crimes and property offences,” he said.
 
 Yadav said that these mobile phones would act as a parallel source of communication for the police and apart from the control room.
 
 An officer privy to the development said that the CP would also have a live feed showing location of each of these vehicles and daily report about the number of kilometres each of the vehicle has travelled, its route, would get generated.
 
 There are several spots in the city where the wireless sets used by the police do not work due to poor range. The police also face network issues while using these devices from building basements, inside huge structures and areas with several trees or high-rise buildings. There are also some hilly areas around the city where the wireless sets do not have network.
 
 As of date, the police stations of Cantonment, Daulatabad, Waluj and MIDC Waluj, Harsul and   have certain pockets where the wireless sets face network problems. The areas where their telecommunication devices do not operate or do not have network are identified as black holes. 
 
