MALDA: A 13-year-old girl attending a wedding ceremony earlier this year had noticed the bride couldn’t possibly be an adult. Instead of taking part in the revelry, she raised her voice against the marriage and informed the administration. The marriage had to be stopped and the teenager — Beauty Khatun — became the brand ambassador for the district’s anti-child marriage campaign. But ironically, Beauty is now being hounded and she has stopped going to school, fearing assault by local youths. The   (CWC) has reacted sharply and vowed to ensure her protection. 

 Under fire from locals, Beauty had stood her ground against the child marriage that was supposed to take place on January 17. She was rebuked and then allegedly assaulted by the elders of the village, who were fine with the wedding. Beauty had to be hospitalised, but she used the chance to divulge all to the police. The guardians of the bride and groom along with some relatives were arrested. Described as ‘Malala of Malda’, the Amrity village girl was felicitated at her home on February 24 by the BDO. On the occasion of Women’s Day, chief minister   felicitated her among others to honour her courage. But now, Beauty has alleged although she got major support from the school and administration, she is being subjected to teasing and abusing in her locality by some youths following the incident. 
 
 She said initially, she did manage to put up a brave front. However, of late, the harrassment has increased and the neighbours too do not stand by her when she is abused on her way to school or tuition, Beauty alleged.
 
 Those arrested in connection with the child marriage have meanwhile been released on bail and are allegedly threatening Beauty. She was forced to stop attending school. Beauty said she is trying to cope by reading books of Nobel winner  . Beauty’s mother   said: “I never imagined my daughter will have to pay such a price for doing noble work.” 
 
 CWC chairperson   told TOI: “It is a shame for us that Beauty came to me crying, seeking protection, when we hold her as a model against child marriage. We shall never tolerate this and will visit her house. I’m also asking the police to take strict action against the accused.”
 
