KOLKATA: A 33-year-old man got electrocuted on Sunday afternoon when the string of the kite he was flying on the terrace of his Garia home got entangled to a high-tension wire. The nylon string was coated with “Chinese manja“ (made with glass and metals dust) and was a good conductor of electricity.

 The victim, Sanjib Kumar Das, a stationary shop owner, was declared dead when taken to a private hospital off EM Bypass. His daughter, Anushka (7), nephew Deep Balmiki (12), and niece Puja Dey (10) were also injured while trying move the victim's hand from the string. According to hospital sources, Anushka's condition was critical, but Puja and Deep were stable.
 
 Banned by the   in New Delhi earlier this year, strings with Chinese manja are stronger than the cotton threads available in the market.
 
 Being a kite enthusiast, Das had bought loads of such banned threads, which are still available for sale at Burrabazar and various other places in the city.
 
 On Sunday afternoon, the victim along with his nephew and niece were flying kites when the string got entangled with the 33,000volt high-tension wire. The wire is around 12 feet from the house. “My son, who was holding the string, immediately felt the shock and was thrown off his feet. The children also felt the shock but Sanjib was still holding on to the string,“ said Salil Das, Sanjib's father and a retired armyman.
 
 He added that Sanjib's elder brother Sourav ran to his rescue along with Sanjib's daughter Akansha. “Akans ha ran to her father and tried to shake him as he was lying on the ground. She too received the jolt. Sourav separated them from the thread using a bamboo pole and called us for help,“ said Das.
 
 The family immediately took Sanjib and Akansha to Peerless Hospital, around 4 km from their home, but a doctor at the emergency ward declared Sanjib dead and admitted Akansha. Doctors said Akansha suffered burns on her hands, chest, belly and legs.
 
 Relatives said this was first time in three years that Sanjib was celebrating Vishwakarma puja since her mother had passed away in 2015. “He was always a kite enthusiast. There was no puja at our home for the last two years. This year, we had a grand celebration. But he was only interested in flying kites and look what happened to him,” said Sanjib's wife Madhumita.
 
 Police said, they have seized the manja and are trying to find out where he bought it from. “It looks like he had used strings covered with metal dust that are good conductor of electricity and are banned. We have seized them and started an investigation,” said Syed Mohammed Mamdoodul Hasan, deputy superintendent of police (crime) Baruipur.
 
