DEHRADUN/NAINITAL: In comparison to last year when almost 4500 hectares of Uttarakhand’s forests were ravaged by fires, the extent of damage due to fires this year in the state has been much reduced so far with 426 reported incidents and destruction of almost 669 hectares till April 30.
 According to experts, a number of factors are believed to be responsible for this like adequate rainfall in the pre-winter season, better awareness among villagers, a more cautious approach of the forest department and last but not the least the strict stance adopted by the   high court which had ordered suspension of top forest officials including the principal chief conservator of forests, if the blaze was not controlled in time. 
 
 In an order dated December 19, 2016, the division bench of justices Rajiv Sharma and   of the Nainital high court had decreed that if a forest fire continued for more than 72 hours, the principal chief conservator of forests should be suspended and disciplinary proceedings initiated against him. The judges had also advised similar action against the divisional forest official if the forest fire continued for more than 24 hours, and the conservator of forests if the blaze was not put out within 48 hours.
  
  The HC rap seems to have had some effect on the ground in terms of the state of preparedness of the forest department.  , head of the state forest force said that around 20 lakh small trenches were dug up in susceptible forest areas across the state which helped in maintaining moisture and containing the dryness of the forest making the area less susceptible to a blaze.
 
  In addition, say forest officials, field staff was able to swing into action much earlier this year since funds were released on time. “Last year, we received almost Rs 22 crore of funds much after bulk of the forests had been engulfed in flames but this year, our budget was released in time. Therefore, we were able to quickly mobilise personnel and increase our crew stations from 1194 to 1413,” said  , nodal officer for forest fire management.
  
  The weather gods were also kinder this year. Nainital-based conservationist  , told TOI, “Last year, there was almost a drought like situation after September, and in many areas, temperatures were touching 40 to 45 degrees, conducive to starting a blaze. This year, temperatures are much lower, and rainfall at regular intervals has also helped.”
  
  In addition, active participation by the women of forest communities who are involved in the enhancement of forest cover and sustainable management practices, helped keep the situation under control. “Community patrolling and vigil by locals has been of great help and we have also caught some people trying to instigate forest fires who are now behind bars,” said DVS Kahti, chief conservator of forests.
  
  This year also saw more technology being deployed to monitor instances of forest blazes. State forest officials claimed that drones had been pressed into service for the first time anywhere in the country to monitor forest fires.
