Mumbai: Former SRA chief Vishwas Patil had cleared as many as 137 proposals in the last month of his tenure in June, decisions which were stayed and placed under scrutiny. Now, an interim report by a four-member inquiry committee has found prima facie irregularities in 33 cases, sources said. It has suggested an in-depth inquiry to reach a proper conclusion and decide at what level the irregularities occurred.

 The report has been submitted to the state housing department. The committee will be given more time to conduct a detailed probe in these 33 cases, officials said. Four officials from the Slum Rehabilitation Authority, including two town planners and its chief legal consultant, were part of the committee.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Patil denied any wrongdoing and said the irregularities observed may be on account of lack of information. “The files which I cleared were not created by me. These were files which had been running for 10-12 years. Several IAS officers and SRA officials had been part of the approval process over the years,” he said. 
 
 Patil added, “Some information and details must be missing. Once it is received, it will be clear there are no irregularities.” He added his ratio of file clearance was around 4-5 files a day, which was the normal speed.
 
 Among the clearances where the committee found irregularities is the MP Mill compound case, exposed by TOI on July 12. On June 23, after the approval of housing minister Prakash Mehta, the SRA had permitted an irregular proposal which allowed extra building rights granted to slumdwellers at MP Mill Compound near Tardeo’s Imperial Towers to be transferred to a scheme for project-affected people. This was in violation of development control rules. The move would have generated building rights worth over Rs500 crores for the developer S D Corporation.
 
 After receiving TOI’s queries CM Devendra Fadnavis had stayed the decision. Prakash Mehta currently faces a Lokayukta probe in the matter. Patil said, “I did not grant a final clearance to the MP Mill Compound scheme. I sought an opinion from the government more than once.” 
 
 Other irregularities observed by the committee in these 33 cases include the approval of excess TDR, clearance of a slum scheme without confirming that the area was a slum or without land acquisition. Also, approval of an FSI of 4 for a slum scheme which was entitled to an FSI of 3 and approving the change of developer in a slum scheme without taking the general body resolution of the society of slumdwellers. And the transfer of slumdwellers without their consent within an amalgamated scheme. Also, the approval of excess parking space without counting it in the permissible FSI.
 
 Other irregularities noted by the committee include provisional approval to a scheme without a draft annexure listing slumdwellers eligible for the scheme. In one case, an FSI of 2.5 was allowed on land within the coastal regulation zone, higher than the permissible limit, the committee found. Another irregularity listed was approval of a slum scheme on land reserved for a playground and amalgamation of additional land without consent of slumdwellers. 
 
 The committee also listed several cases where approval was given for change of developer in a slum scheme without charging premium or without the consent of 70% of the slumdwellers.
 
