(Pic: Thinkstock
 UP CM   has put his first pre-poll promise into action — by sending out ‘Anti-Romeo Squads’ on the streets of the state to protect girl students from eve-teasers. This vigilante group are reportedly patrolling areas, especially near educational institutions for offences like   and stalking of girl students. The two-days-old move by a political party has already churned up a storm both online and off it. At the prospect of replicating that in Mumbai campus, students had a lot to say about moral policing’s new knockout...

 
  
  
 Second-year arts student at  , Bandra, Srishti Dogra believes that such a Romeo 
 squad would be helpful in city campuses. “Eve-teasing does take place in Mumbai, though it may not happen on a large scale as it happens there. But having something like this will be a deterrent. Not all girls are confident to take on bullies and eve-teasers, the shy and introverted ones who get harassed, tend to complain on social media posts. But with an anti-Romeo squad there will be a way we can take action,” she says. 
  Nimisha Nair, third-year student of Jai Hind College, has a counter suggestion. “This teasing doesn’t really happen in my college, but I have heard of stories of it in other colleges. A friend, who goes to  , suffered from it. In fact, they have a ridiculous dress code to prevent enticing the opposite sex. I have never understood it. My friend was badly teased for wearing jeans and a cold shoulder top. So when we talk of having squad for  , they should also make sure it looks into moral policing and harassment on this level,” she says. 
 
 
 As with all proposed rules, there is huge concern over the misuse of this one. “It’s good as long as the actions are only limited to taking a stand against eve-teasers. My only worry is that undue advantage can be taken under the tag of moral policing, and they may end up harassing people instead. I fear that I will be hounded by a group for merely stepping out of college accompanied by my female friends,” voices Aaditya Shivkumar, FYJC Arts, Ramnarain Ruia College.
 When you draw the line on eve-teasing, you also have to take into account the fine line between that and flirting, says Farhan Sahukar, SYBA Arts student, KC College. “I agree that eve-teasing is wrong. But what if you have started dating a girl and are flirting with her? You should not have to justify teasing her harmlessly to anyone, let alone be punished for it. Thus, the right implementation and execution of such a proposal is important. If you misread communication between two people who like each other and start moral policing on that, it will lead to harassment of an innocent person, which is wrong.” 
  Arya Sejpal of DJ Sanghvi College, Vile Parle, has the same worry. “Attempting to curb eve-teasing with a squad would be great, but it should not be that wrong people are targeted for it. I have seen a lot of groupism in schools and colleges — those who have no ‘pull’ or are not cool enough, have no voice. The scary part is that they may face the brunt of this. So if a squad comes into effect, it has to ensure that it is fair and non-biased,” he says. 
  Adds Divya Gupta, student of a fashion institute at Andheri, “This is Mumbai and anything can happen here, even support such a squad that protects women’s rights. But one has to make sure that it does not go overboard as sometimes such moral policing can get very nasty.” 
 
 
 Rhea Sarkar, FYBA, Somaiya College, Vidya Vihar welcomes the idea. “My college is situated near Vidya Vihar railway station, which has eve-teasers hanging around coffee parlours and on the main road; they pass comments at the college-going girls or stare at them. They don’t even spare the elderly women. There have been instances in the past where cops were approached, but they call our parents to say that it is we who need to be monitored. If we want to ensure that   is successful in our city, I think the police needs to stop moral policing girls and track down such boys who create a nuisance.” She also says feels that the squad should not be confined only to educational institutions or boys. “Even autowallahs stare at us, so do middle-aged men on railway platforms,” she fumes.
 
 
  
  
 Says clinical psychologist Dr  , “I do agree that extreme eve- teasing on campus can have an adverse effect on young minds. The trauma that comes with it often makes one anxious about possible future relations. But this kind of policing may also infringe on the rights of human beings — where someone else lays the moral ground on your personal life. It is a decision being made by another on allowing you to have the freedom to express love, which amounts to nothing but control. If we have such a stricture, we will be going the ‘Big Brother is Watching You’ way.” She adds, “There has to be a code of conduct to see there is no anarchy or chaos in society. But just moralising and standing on a high ground is like telling us that we are not intelligent enough to make romantic decisions, is wrong. It’s is both archaic, regressive and may put the state into a place of being an authoritarian body. You can’t say X is more sensible and so has the right to talk about Y. With such policing there may also be misjudgment, which will affect an innocent person’s life.”
 
 
  
  
 The term is used to denote public sexual harassment or molestation of the female sex by male/s. It may inlcude verbal and non- verbal jokes, gestures and assaults. 
 
 
  
  
 City-based criminal   Tanveer Khan, says, “Eve-teasing is not defined anywhere in the   (IPC), though there are sections in the IPC that cover acts that amount to eve-teasing. For example, Section 354 A speaks of sexual harassment, C is voyeurism and D is about stalking. Also, Section 294 is about obscene acts and songs in public and Section 509 is about words, gestures or acts intended to insult the modesty of a woman. So, all these do cover eve-teasing and can lead to the inference that it did take place.” 
 
 
 
 
