MYSURU:  , the legendary tiger of Bandipur and a darling of tourists, is dead. The tiger was last seen two weeks ago, and forest officers were hunting high and low for the   in their midst. But the discovery of a carcass on Sunday dimmed their enthusiasm and fuelled fears that the tiger may be dead.

 On Tuesday, a profile match of the dead animal with the database of Prince confirmed it was the same tiger. Within hours, condolences and messages flooded social media in a testimony to the popularity of the big cat.
 
 
  
  
 
  director and forest conservator,  , told TOI: “We've got the match results. It is 90% Prince. It's a sad day for us; he was one of the best tigers in India.“ The officer said they will “still make“ attempts to locate Prince in his territory in the next 3-4 days before declaring the animal dead.
 
 The drama surrounding the missing animal took a tragic turn when field staff of the forest department came across a tiger carcass at Lokkare in the early hours of Sunday. Senior officials rushed to the spot and conducted a postmortem as per the norms of the   and burnt the body.
 
  
  
 The officers took photographs of the tiger and collected its samples. Sources said the carcass was decomposed, suggesting the tiger was dead for at least a week. The postmortem suggested the cause of death could be starvation. “The body bore no injuries, ruling out infighting. The tiger died due to age-related reasons,“ a source said, presenting a different view. Forest officials in awe of the animal said Prince was shy in the initial days and didn't like vehicular movement in his turf. In the past four years, he gained - and later accustomed to -the celebrity status he built on his own tourist-friendly appeal.
 
 Sources said Prince was said to have marked his territory in the Bandipur range in 2009. The range is the core of the ecotourism zone at Bandipur. Until last year, he remained the undisputed boss of the range by killing a tiger that tried to add its footprint. However, in the past one year, the big cat faced threat from Mahadesha, who carved out his territory in the same range. This restricted Prince's movement, and he had moved away from the territory he once lorded over.
 
  
  
 Prince was a prime attraction for tourists, who loved to spend hours waiting for him in his abode --an 18-km spread.For the past four years, tigerwatchers would troop into Bandipur to watch him in action.
 
 
