NAGPUR: A woman posing as a  , or as owner of a candle manufacturing unit, allegedly defaulted on returning deposits and investments to the tune of several lakh taken from gullible investors lured by promises of high returns. Several widows lost their savings in the schemes launched by the woman, who remains free since cops have been refusing to register a case against her for the last six months.

 Around 14 aggrieved investors, including eight widows, have been knocking on the door of every police officer since mid-2016 to seek justice, but have only earned experiences to share so far, including demand for bribe by an officer of Asst PI rank. The 14 victims have lost around Rs 73.80 lakh, but cops are still dragging their feet to register an offence. Left in the lurch, the investors are now threatening to sit on dharna outside CP K Venkatesh’s office.
 
 Sources from   police said Zonal DCP Deepali Masirkar has already instructed Hingna police to take action. “The offences were spread over the jurisdictions of several police stations. One of the complainant, named Ingle, is supposed to visit Hingna police station and offence would be registered soon,” said Senior PI Hemant Kharabe of Hingna police station. “We are still probing the matter. There was breach of contracts between the woman and investors since the business on the basis of which the investments were attracted had suffered losses,” he said.
 
 The investors, who are now running pillar to post, claimed the woman used to offer lucrative schemes to invest, apart from life insurance policies. Most of the women duped claimed to have met the woman through one Vandana Agade, who too claims to have been duped of Rs2.63 lakh.
 
 Agade, a widow, had handed over the woman whatever cash she got after voluntarily retiring from her job. “She had lured many of us to invest in her candle-making unit promising lucrative returns, but we got nothing substantial. Earlier, she had lured us to invest in post office recurring deposit funds but we realized that she did not deposit much of the amount taken from us into the said scheme. After returning some portion of the deposit, she defaulted on the rest,” said Agade.
 
 Pratibha Khati, another widow, claimed the defaulter had been threatening to implicate her in a criminal case if she was pressurized to return the deposits.
 
 Another depositor, Subhas Ingle, claimed the woman duped her in the name of an insurance policy. Ingle lost around Rs10 lakh while another   was duped of Rs21 lakh.
 
 (With inputs from Megha Tiwari)
 
