LUCKNOW/KANPUR: As the battle for the party symbol is being fought in the  , supporters of Mulayam nd Akhilesh are battling it out in Uttar Pradesh to take control of the organisation. On Monday, two senior office-bearers of the party’s state unit close to Shivpal were stopped from entering the party office on 5, Vikramaditya Marg. 

 Meanwhile, reports from Etawah said Gopal Yadav, district president appointed by the Akhilesh faction has taken control of the party office, though he denied the reports.
 
 In Lucknow, a piquant situation arose when   ‘Kaka’, who was appointed state secretary by Shivpal Yadav after taking over as state president in September 2016, reached the party office on Monday morning but was stopped by the guards at the gates. “They said I am not allowed to enter the party office but did not say who gave them orders to stop me,” said Raghunandan Singh.
 
 A similar situation arose when another secretary in the state unit and Shivpal aide Deepak Misra tried to enter the party office and was stopped at the gates. “This is outrageous. Now even Samajwadis (socialists) like me are not being allowed to enter the SP office,” said Misra, who is also the party spokesperson.
 
 Similar incidents took place in Etawah where party office at Civil Lines area was converted into a fortress, with heavy security in place to avoid any showdown from the two sides. After the family feud, Mulayam’s estranged cousin Ram Gopal Yadav had appointed new district chiefs in the ‘Yadavland’, comprising Etawah, Firozabad, Mainpuri and Kannauj.
 
 On Monday, amid heavy police presence, slogan-shouting supporters of both factions gathered outside the party office in  . They alleged that “all this is being done on the instructions of a handful of people who are actually not the true ‘Samajwadis’ and are playing in the hands of those who are hell-bent on not only damaging the party but also on destroying the image of Mulayam and Akhilesh.”
 
 Sunil Yadav, who was sacked by Ram Gopal but considers himself the “real” district head of SP, said: “We are the true ‘Samajwadis’. Till date no senior leader, including Netaji (Mulayam) and Shivpalji questioned us on the issue of control over the party’s district office or barred us from using it.”
 
 He added, “Though Akhilesh bhaiya rules our heart, it was Netaji who gave him the responsibility of UP. None can be compared with the stature of Netaji. This is why we felt the need to tell people that Netaji is supreme and installed his cut-outs on the roof of the SP office in Civil Lines. See who is the real culprit behind the ongoing disturbance in the Yadav family.”
 
 Gopal Yadav, who was appointed by Shivpal recently as SP district president of Etawah, ruled out that either he or his supporters had grabbed the party’s district office in Etawah. “Neither we nor our senior leaders believe in anarchy. Some handful of lumpen elements, who are neither Mulayamwadi nor Akhileshwadi, are creating the disturbance. They are anarchists backed by our rivals, particularly the BJP and BSP. We have already apprised the district administration about the issue. It’s now the prerogative of the administration to act against such anarchists,” he told TOI.
 
 The situation was no different in Firozabad. Amid heavy police presence, newly appointed district chief of SP, Ram Sewak Yadav, said: “I am only following the instructions of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Ram Gopal Yadav. It was they who appointed me as district president of the party.”
 
