Why is   ( ) in children a growing problem?  , increasing prevalence of obesity, lack of exercise and calorie dense diet are all contributing to this problem in children.
 
  High blood pressure in children is relative. Your doctor will calculate what's normal blood pressure for your child based on three factors: gender, age and height. So, what may be a   reading for a 5 year old child may be normal for a 10 year old child. Diagnosis of HBP is not made on the basis of single measurement. To diagnose HBP, at least three measurements should be higher than normal over the course of three visits to the doctor. As in adults, HBP in children can result in serious, long term health effects, including heart disease, kindly disease & stroke. Children with HBP are likely to continue to have high BP as adults unless they begin treatment.
  
  Risk factors for HBP in children include obesity and a family history of HBP. Sometimes HBP in children is related to other health condition such as kidney or heart disease, hormonal or sleep disorder. Obesity in children is primarily due to a combination of two factors: two much food and/or two little activity.
  
  Just like HBP in adults, there are often no symptoms and early diagnosis and treatment are key. All children should have yearly BP measurements in order to allow for early detection and intervention. A common problem associates with HBP in children is sleep apnea, a condition in which the child may snore or have abnormal breathing during sleep. A recent study has reported decreased cognitive ability and poor performance in hypertensive children.
  
  Lifestyle changes, such as eating a heart healthy diet, exercising more and controlling overweight can help reduce HBP. But for some children, medication may be necessary. High fiber diet containing plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables will reduce total calorie intake and thereby help reducing weight in obese child. Cutting the amount of salt will help lower BP. Children of age 4 to 8yrs should not have more than 1200 mg a day and older children should not have more than 1500 mg a day. Children need at least 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Child's time in front of the television or computer should be limited: no television before age 2 and no more than two hours of screen time a day after 6 hours. Involvement of whole family is essential to encourage children to lead a healthy lifestyle.
  
  
  
 
  Dr.  , MD Medicine (AIIMS), DM Cardio (AIIMS), FISC Director- Cardiology, GNRC Heart Institute, Guwahati.
  E-mail: drboro_anup@yahoo.co.in
  
  
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
