From a result perspective, the next two games in India's five-match series are of little consequence, with the home team having taken a 3-0 lead. But as   vice-captain   pointed out, “The series is done but there is a lot to play for.”

 As the two sides square off at the M Chinnaswamy stadium here on Thursday , the contest is far from being a dead rubber.
 
 With the Indian think-tank's focus being on building towards the 2019 World Cup, every run scored will be important and youngsters in the team will not want to let go of the opportunity to ply their wares against a team which has struggled to counter India's assault with both bat and ball.
 
 With the series sealed, home skipper   may look at tinkering with the line-up and hand local boy   his first match of the series. If that happens, then it will be interesting to see who gets to go out at No.4, especially with Hardik Pandya emerging as a matchwinner in that position in the last match. Manish Pandey , who has had a rather indifferent series thus far, too will look to steady his place with a sparkling show on his home turf.
 
 On the bowling front, India are unlikely to go in for a change with the spin duo of Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav snaring 13 wickets between them in three matches. They have found support from Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah and Pandya. But with Mohammed Shami, Umesh Yadav and Axar Patel in the squad, a change or two can't be ruled out.
 
 The Australians on the other hand, will look for a turnaround with two ODIs and three T20s remaining in the tour.
 
 Putting the visiting team's mindset in perspective, Warner said, “It is disappointing to lose the series but we've got to look at what to play for. We're not just walking out there for ourselves, we're representing our country , that's what we enjoy doing and love doing. There's a lot of pride at stake.”
 
 A few wins before they head home for the Ashes, beginning in Brisbane on November 23, will be a huge confidence booster for   and his men.
 
 With Ashton Agar out of the series, leg-spinner  , who was dropped after the first ODI in Chennai, may get a look-in. That said, with the spinners failing to impress, the bowling responsibilities will be with the pace department led by Nathan Coulter-Nile. But it's the middle-order that will be in the spotlight.
 
 
 
 
 The last time the venue hosted an ODI was in 2013 when the same teams were pitted against each other.The contest turned out to be a run feast (709 runs) with the hosts walking away winners and Rohit Sharma scoring a double century.But there will be no free flow of runs this time around as the pitch has slowed down and hasn't been a batsman's delight for the past year.
 
 Players and spectators alike will hope for the rain to stay away. Bengaluru has painted the most gloomy hue over the past few days.The forecast is not good.
 
 
