PATNA: Leaving nothing to chance, the state government has deployed four companies of central armed police forces (CAPF) and a large number of   Military Police (BMP) personnel across the state to ensure peaceful   on Wednesday.

 The CAPF and BMP personnel have been mobilized as around 32,000 home guard jawans have been on an indefinite strike since March 15. To ensure peace, the state police headquarters has roped in even those officials and security personnel engaged in desk job.
 
 DGP P K   said four companies of CAPF have been deployed in Siwan, Nalanda, Arwal and Darbhanga districts. He said the central government, on request, has given two companies of Sashastra Seema Bal and one company each of Indo Tibetan   (ITBP) and Rapid Action Force (RAF). He also said a large number of BMP personnel have been deployed across several districts. “State police have successfully maintained law and order during Holi and the home guards’ strike will not hit Ram Navami’s security arrangements,” he said.
 
 Zonal IG (Patna) Nayyar Hasnain Khan said one company of BMP and a reserve company under Zonal IG (IG reserve) have been deployed in Patna. “All the 11 districts under Patna zone have been kept ready with anti-riot companies. Four DSPs of BMP, along with officers on desk job, have been deployed in Patna for security arrangements,” the IG said, adding that security personnel are extra alert in Patna City, Phulwarisharif, Maner, Barh and Bakhtiyarpur areas of Patna district.
 
 “Apart from an ITBP company at Siwan, four companies of IG reserve are deployed in Saran, Muzaffarpur and Bettiah,” said Zonal IG (Muzaffarpur) Sunil Kumar, adding that elaborate security arrangements have been made for Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi and Vaishali districts. He also said officers who had failed to control tensed situation in the past have not been deployed in such areas this time.
 
 Zonal IG (Darbhanga) Umashankar Sudhanshu said police are continuously conducting raids to nab the suspects involved in violence during religious celebrations in the past.
 
 Zonal IG (Bhagalpur) Sushil Man Singh Khopade said four companies of anti-riot and BMP have been deployed in Munger, Begusarai and Bhagalpur for Ram Navami.
 
