JAIPUR: The sleuths of Anti-Terrorism Squad(ATS) investigating the case of gang involved in cheating people on the pretext of providing original   on Sunday said that the gang was also taking   including marks sheets of the candidates as security.

 Parents willing to get the question papers were asked to deposit all the documents with the gang members and these documents were returned only after getting full and final payment.
 
 A team of ATS on Saturday also recovered cheques of crores of rupees from the Lajpat Nagar-situated residence of the gang’s mastermind, Uma Shankar Gupta, and large amount of original documents of candidates including their marks sheets of secondary, senior secondary and other exams. In the interrogation the ATS will find other than using these marks sheets and other documents what was the purpose of the gang to take them.
 
 “There is also a possibility that apart from promising to provide   to the families of candidates, the accused were also into promising them to get a seat in the medical colleges through management quota. Likewise, the investigation till now suggests that these marks sheets were used as security by the gangs and were not returned to parents whose cheques bounced or those who did not pay money to get the original question papers on time,” said Vikas Kumar, superintendent of police, ATS on Sunday.
 
 He said that the interrogation of Uma Shankar, the mastermind of the gang, also revealed that the gang was operating from Delhi and Jaipur and was alluring the candidates from entire north India. “Their agents used to throng schools on the day of senior secondary exam results and from there they used to find out the wealthy and also willing parents who wanted to get their children admitted to the medical colleges by hook or crook,” Kumar added.
 
 On May 7, ATS had busted a gang involved in cheating many on the pretext of providing original question papers of NEET exam. During then, five persons were arrested by the sleuths of ATS—three from Jaipur and two from Delhi. Thereafter it was found by the sleuths that the gang had not spared anyone as their victims included an inspector from Bihar police to other government officials from Delhi and Haryana.
 
