No woman likes to go out without a handbag. A fashion statement, the style mantra for   is ‘the bigger, the better’. And structured bags to oversized clutches, totes and long-handled bags with chains and buckles to animal skin are some popular emerging trends. Recently, a fashion week collection featured travel bags worn as cross body backpacks. Last year’s larger tote made an exit from the handbag trends and have been replaced by mid-sized trendy ones. The most sought-after are mid-sized totes and hobos in exotic skins, and soft leather with two top handles, a Birkin-style horizontal strap and a lock closure. The overall vibe is more structured and the silhouettes are detailed. Sharp, impeccably tailored handbags and clutches work spotlessly for women. Old school satchel bags are also a style statement this season. Sling bags in bright colours are quite in. To compliment evening wear, larger clutches are preferable.

 Besides being super functional and a fashion accessory, a handbag also speaks volumes about your personality and style. So, make sure to pick one that say something for you...
 
 
 
 A glimmer of a decorative beaded exterior, sequin, or just a plain one — the clutch is a timeless design and speaks of the finer aspects of a woman. It also lends a flash of glamour to every after-dark look.
 
 
 
 Remember the Hogwarts school satchels featured in 'Harry Porter' films? They’ve sparked a trend. These glamorous and versatile strappy carry-alls are great for a contemporary look. Large enough to hold your everyday items without weighing you down, they don’t compromise on style. 
 
 
 
 Totes have been in fashion for a long time. The only changes have been in terms of size and colour. Totes are generally made of cloth, but leather and skin totes with crochet, lace overlays and intricate weaves are setting a trend. Bright totes offer an instant update to almost any outfit. 
 
 
 
 The retro-inspired box bag is a huge hit among fashionistas. These bags come in a variety of styles — the most prominent being the baguette. Structured ones with single top handles and cross body straps lend a sleek look. 
 
 
 
 If you lean towards a classic look, opt for a trendy long-handled bag — an organised one with a leather strap or long chain is a secret weapon for hands-free accessories. 
 
 
  
 You can’t get more luxe and irresistible than a snakeskin bag. Whether it’s genuine python skin or just faux embossing, this bag lends elegance and luxury. To get a runway-ready look, opt for a multi-coloured piece. 
 
 
 
 The 70s style has returned with updated designs. Envelopes are smaller shoulder flap bags that add a glamourous touch to your evening ensemble. These demure ladylike companions are neither too small nor oversized and lend a subtle look. 
 
 
 
 The crescent-shaped bags with long leather straps and slouchy tops have become objects of desire with leggy supermodels like Kate Moss. Their popularity can be attributed to the fact that they are usually spacious and can store all the essentials that you may want to carry. Hobo bags are generally unstructured and complement the casual look very well. They go particularly well with informal dresses, denims, capris and slacks. If you are going to a formal event, small leather hobo purses designed with a more structured style and in a neutral shade will be perfect.
 
 
 
 An antithetical trend piece, frame bags are ladylike and rectangular. With styles changing from spiked, dark to studded, frame bags are associated with the elegance of the 1950s and the early 1960s. They are ideal for a faithful vintage look and lend a modern twist to any drab outfit. 
 
 
 
 A fur handbag lends an eternal appeal to your outfit. A style statement on its own, this elegance emanates from any kind of fur (real or faux). Buckles, chains and embellishments are big in fur bags this season. Do not over accessorise while carrying a statement fur bag. This takes away the attention from the bag.
 
 
 
 Previously known as the ‘it’ bag for the evening, the minaudière belongs to the same family as the clutch. The pint-sized clutch has now broken its stereotypical ‘evening only’ mould and become a style icon for any time of the day. It is decorated with rhinestones, studs and precious jewels and is more fashionable. The minaudière was historically known for its diminutive size, tough metal casings and mini works of art. 
 
 
