KOCHI/THIRUVANATHAPURAM: The Kochi   Rail Ltd (KMRL) plans to begin construction works associated with integrated   project in June.

 After holding a review meeting, the Metro agency has decided to speed up preliminary works. The review meeting was attended by representatives of various local bodies which would be linked by Kochi Water Metro.
 
 Earlier, KMRL had adjudged AECOM Consortium (Aecom India Pvt Ltd, Urban Mass Transit Company Ltd and Zebec Marine Consultants Service Pvt Ltd) as the successful bidder for the project. 
 
 The work will be awarded to the consortium after obtaining clearance from KfW, the German bank, which is funding the project. The approval of KMRL’s director board is also required.
 
 Replying to a calling attention motion, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state government would complete the first phase of the Water Metro project by the last quarter of 2019.
 
 He said that KfW had expressed satisfaction over the progress of the project.
 
 The chief minister said they were in the final phase of appointing general consultants for the project and once the environmental clearance is received, the project would take off.
 
 In the calling attention motion, Hibi Eden   said that the water Metro was envisaged as a feeder service to the Kochi Metro rail project, and the idea is to have an integrated mobility project comprising Metro rail, Water Metro and feeder buses. 
 
 He said that once the project gets over, it would change the face of Kochi.
 
 However, Thrikkakkara MLA P T Thomas said that the government was playing politics with regard to including people’s representatives in the development of Kochi. 
 
 He said that he was excluded from the committee of Kochi mobility hub despite being the local MLA, while Kochi mayor Soumini Jain and district panchayat president Asha Sanil were excluded from the Greater Cochin Development Agency (GCDA). 
 
 He said that without the inclusion of local people’s representatives, discussing development issues will be a mockery. But the chief minister said that rules and regulations framed for constituting the governing body and executive committee does not stipulate the inclusion of the mayor, district panchayat president or the MLA in the committees.
 
 At the same time, KMRL said it was expected that the board of directors would give approval to appoint general consultants this month. 
 
 The Water Metro will connect 10 panchayats. They have identified 16 routes. While sufficient land is available in most jetties for Water Metro, they will have to acquire more land for constructing road at some places for which KMRL requires cooperation of panchayats.
