THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/ALAPUZZHA: With a section of   in the state going ahead with their plan to go on casual leave on Monday to protest against the vigilance implicating their colleagues in several cases, chief minister   has decided to meet their representatives to evolve a patch up formula, on Monday.

 Meanwhile, over 30 IAS officers have already given their requests for leave to the chief secretary. The IAS officers’ association has also decided to give a written complaint on Monday, expressing “dissatisfaction” over functioning of   Jacob Thomas.
 
 Seizing on the matter, opposition parties the Congress and the BJP said the administration in the state has come to a standstill due to the friction between the officials. Both the parties blamed the present state of affairs on the “inefficiency” of the chief minister.
 
 “It is for the first time in the history of the state that IAS officers have decided to go on mass leave to protest against the government. It is an unprecedented situation in the state,” said KPCC president V M Sudheeran.
 
 The chief minister has miserably failed in leading the government officers. This has brought the state’s administration to a standstill, he added.
 
 Speaking to reporters at DCC office in Alappuzha on Sunday, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said, “The government has lost control over the bureaucracy. The chief minister is enjoying the ongoing mud-sliding between top officers in the state. He is pretending to be asleep and this in not fair.” The allegation levelled by IAS officers against Thomas should be investigated, he added.
 
 “Some CPM leaders have already come out against the way the Pinarayi government was functioning. CPM is a party that always speaks about morality. However, they are allowing M M Mani to continue as a minister despite him being named in a murder case. This is perhaps the first time in the country that a murder accused is holding the position of a minister,” Chennithala said.
 
 The BJP also expressed concern over the allegations levelled by the IAS officers’ association against the vigilance director. “The chief minister is maintaining a studied silence even regarding the   levelled against the vigilance director. This is for the first time in the country that senior officers are fighting it out so openly,” said V Muraleedharan, former state president of the BJP.
 
 The IAS officers, who are bound to take the directions of the ministers and the state cabinet, have levelled some serious allegations against a person who is heading the top investigation agency of the state. With their protest leave, the IAS officers have signalled that they were not ready to work for the government unless there is action against the vigilance director. This will undoubtedly lead to a state of anarchy in governance in the state, he said.
 
