BENGALURU: The annual   mela on   draws customers from all over the city. The mela dates back to the 1960s, and on sale, in the  , are more than 50 varieties of mangoes from across the country.

 Every year, from April to June, Jayamahal main road, near the TV tower in JC Nagar, turns into the city's best mango market. More than 50 shops, painted yellow and green, are set up by traders on the pavements, selling mango varieties from different parts of the country.
 
 The vendors have been selling mangoes in Bengaluru during the season from the mid-1960s, and traders say they sell more than 50 varities from Karnataka,  , Tamil Nadu, Gujarat nd Uttar Pradesh.
 
 A Neelakandan, 50, from Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu, has been bringing fruit to the nnual mango mela since he was eenager. “I was 15 when I first ame to sell mangoes in Bengaluru with my family. I have come every year since,“ he says. For the rest of the year, he tills his land and grows paddy in his village, but he turns mango trader for three months.
 
 He says the annual mango sale used to be held in Palace Grounds, and later shifted near the Jakkur airfield. About a decade ago, they moved to Jayamahal Main Road and have been here since.
 
 One of the youngest mango sellers here this time is teenager K Venkatesh, who is here with his father Karunanidhi and two siblings. “My whole family comes here every year and after three months, we return home to Vayalur, our village in Tiruvannamalai,“ he says.
 
 The mango traders, most of them from Tiruvannamalai in northern Tamil Nadu, source the fruits from Kolar, Ramnagara and Mysuru in Karnataka as well as Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu, and parts of Andhra Pradesh and UP. The mangoes are brought to the main mango mandi in Kanakapura from where the traders buy them and bring them to the shops on the street.
 
 Among the many varieties on sale are alphonso, totapuri, banganapalli, kesar, badami, mallika and raspuri.
 
 “Every mango season, we come all the way here to buy fruit. It is much cheaper than the other shops,“ says Manjunatha, a resident of Raja rajeswari Nagar.
 
 Retail vendors also buy mangoes in large quantities from these traders as the price is low and quality of the produce is good.
 
 R Vijay, a BSc hotel management student, has also set up a a stall here, which he is running with his brother.
 
 “We take a break from our regular jobs during the mango season to set up a stall here because the income is good. It is a practice we have followed from my father's time. Now, we are continuing it. Even if I get a job as a chef in a luxury hotel, I will still come here for these three months to sell mangoes,“ says Vijay, who lives in Mysuru.
 
 Meanwhile, the state's Horticultural Producers and Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) has announced its annual Mango and Jackfruit Mela 2017.
 
 The fair began on Friday, April 18, and is aimed at attracting urban and rural Bengalureans. With over 10 varieties of mango and six varieties of jackfruit, the mela is also open at the more than 300 HOPCOMS outlets in and around Bengaluru city.
 
