NEW DELHI: “I always saw you in my dreams but when I happened to see you in real life, I could not believe myself. I knew we were made for each other,” read one of the hundreds of messages sent by  , then aged 35, to Sonia, 10 years younger, in 2013. The obsessive man who stalked the woman and shot her husband in the belief that she would then be his was apparently inspired by the identical situation portrayed in the  .

 The story began four years ago when Vivek, resident of  , worked at Om Sai Properties in Kirti Nagar in west Delhi. Vivek was instantly smitten with Sonia (name changed), who worked at a builder's office nearby, when she walked past him one evening as he sat sipping tea at a stall in the locality.
 
 He wanted to talk to Sonia, but could not gather the courage to do so. Instead, he began lingering at the tea stall every morning and evening to watch her on her way to and back from work. He also started following her home to ensure, as he claimed to police, that nobody troubled her on the way.
 
 After stalking her in this fashion for some months, Vivek somehow got Sonia's phone number from her office. He sent her a text message: “You're beautiful.” But he still did not have the pluck to reveal his identity.
 
 That same weekend he happened to watch a re-run of Darr on television. Identifying fully with Shah Rukh Khan’s manic   in the movie, he went and bought a CD of the movie and sat down to see it every weekend. He also began enacting in real life scenes from the psycho drama: sending Sonia flowers, following her like a shadow, complimenting her on her dress sense.
 
 The woman bore his ardour stoically and did not approach the cops. Vivek also got on Whatsapp and began sending an incessant flow of messages. Finally, after two years ago, he expressed his feelings to Sonia in 2015. This outraged her. Warning him not to harass her, she blocked his contact numbers.
 
 The harmless lover he claimed to be, Vivek indeed desisted from harassing her. But his quiet admiration for her reached a tipping point on December 10, 2016, when he learnt that Sonia was getting married that day. Soaked in tears and alcohol, he watched Sonia taking the pheras with another man.
 
 That very day, he began searching for a contact from whom he could procure a gun. He soon acquired a pistol and then started the wait for an opportune moment to strike. That came on February 4 this year, when he saw Sonia’s husband taking a walk near his house. He, however, missed his shot. After waiting two more months, he got another chance last fortnight when Sonia and her husband were walking home around 8pm.
 
 “I was startled to see her with him, but didn’t want to lose the chance of shooting her husband,” Vivek said in his confession. “Since I did not want to risk injuring her because my aim is not good, I decided to get as near as possible and fire at the husband.”
 
 He stealthily approached the couple from behind and shot at the husband from close range. The man fell and Sonia herself had a narrow escape.
 
 When he was identified as the shooter, the police closed in on him. When he was cornered four days ago, he popped two dozen sleeping pills in an effort to kill himself. 
 
 “I don't want to live any longer... what is life without her?” he told the cops. He then added, quite maniacally, “She will be mine one day.”
 
 
 
 
 
