BHACHAU/GANDHIDHAM (KUTCH): Prime Minister Narendra Modi pulled at the heartstrings of Kutch vote bank in poll-bound   on Monday when he stated that funds meant for the poor were heavily slashed and a larger budgetary allocation was made to provide Narmada water to most parts of the arid district that battles severe water scarcity. 

 Modi arrived in Gujarat on a two-day visit - fourth in the past five months in the election year - and laid foundation stone for Rs 996 crore worth infrastructure projects at   (KPT) in  . Later in the evening, Modi inaugurated the third Narmada pumping station near   town which was completely devastated during the 2001 earthquake. 
 
 "Over the years, Gujarat has allocated thousands of crores that were meant for the poor to ensure arrival of Narmada water in Kutch. Money meant for building schools, hospitals and providing food to lakhs and crores of poor was diverted to ensure you get Narmada waters. Have fetched Narmada water to you by denying hopes and aspirations of many poor people. When you use Narmada water, do remember those poor people and work for their welfare," said Modi.
 
 Urging people to chant 'Narmade, Sarvade', Modi, made to wear the Kutchi attire of traditionally embroidered vest, shawl and headgear by local leaders, exhorted Kutchis to save water. "Water is precious as blood, do not waste it. I have complete faith that Kutchis who have battled water scarcity all their lives can teach India how to save water using drip water irrigation and sprinklers." 
 
 The inauguration of Bhachau pumping station will help fill up the dried up Tappar dam and provide water for drinking and irrigation to more parts in Kutch district which reels under severe water scarcity. Currently, 85% of 647 villages declared 'scarcity-hit' this summer are in Kutch. 
 
 Earlier, Modi laid foundation of infrastructure projects, including a state-of-art Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Convention Center, construction of berth 14 and 16, mechanization of fertilizer handling, interchange-cum-road overbridge among others at the KPT. 
 
 He said that if India wants to cement its position in world trade and make maximum gains from the current global economic situation, it is a must that we have efficient ports with best infrastructure. "If India has to grab a bigger piece of global trade and surge ahead in competition, it is a must that we have the best of the ports," said Modi, the first PM to visit port city Gandhidham in 33 years.
 
 "It is no mean achievement that Kandla has now emerged as one of the important ports in Asia," the PM said. Referring to the Chabahar port in Iran, where India is investing $20 million, Modi said that it would have direct linkages to Kandla that would help this major port a firm footing in global trade. 
 
 Modi also emphasized on building smart port-based cities, on the lines of Rs 1,400 crore Smart Industrial Port City (SPCI) planned at Kandla, that would give a major push to the India's growth.
 
 Modi immediately struck the local chord when he extolled Kutch for rising like a phoenix twice - from the 1998 cyclone and then 2001 killer earthquake. Modi reached Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar for night halt and will formally inaugurate annual meeting of African Development Bank on Tuesday before heading back to Delhi.
 
