NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   tried hard to stoke communal polarisation with his "shamshan vs kabristan" remark but the Hindus of Uttar Pradesh have rejected his attempt to divide people,  , leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha and   pointsperson for the crucial state election, said on Wednesday. 

 While  's 
  from electioneering surprised many, the AICC general secretary in-charge of UP said she was more engaged than before. "She played a bigger role than physical campaigning by managing and monitoring the election. Election management involves deployment of leaders, coordinating their movement and work across the state. This was done under her leadership in Delhi. She was deeply involved in UP elections," he said.
 
 As the 
  , Azad told TOI, "BJP and Modi did their level-best but the majority community and the saner elements did not like their utterances, especially those from the PM. People of India are not ready to accept this talk of shamshan-kabristan." 
 
 Azad said he spoke to Hindus, especially those belonging to BJP, and they were all of the opinion that Modi's statement was uncalled for. "A PM is custodian of all religions. He belongs to all, those who voted for him and those who did not. Whoever advised the PM to make this statement has done a great disservice to the country. The PM should not be put in a position where he is seen as belonging to one community," he added.
 
 He argued that PM's remarks could not have much effect because "people at lower level" are aware that land requirements for a 'shamshan' and 'kabristan' are different, the latter needing more area.
 
 After a month of steering the seemingly contradictory 
  with one-time arch rival Samajwadi Party, Azad said the two partners managed a perfect coordination which "could not be better" and "was better than any alliance that Congress ran in other states".
 
 Claiming that SP-Congress alliance will win UP polls, he said the reference point for BJP's performance could not be the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. "2014 was a different story. The national and state elections do not follow the same pattern," he argued.
 
 
