 Bareilly: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the district magistrate of Bareilly to send details including post-mortem and viscera report relating to three custodial deaths in the district jail and central jail. Two undertrials including a woman died in the district jail while a convict died in the central jail in April. The DM has been asked to file her report within eight weeks failing which NHRC will issue summons in this connection.   Two undertrials, Tahir Husain and Ambika Kunwar, who were lodged in the district jail, died on April 10 and 14 respectively. Similarly Balak Ram, a convict housed in central jail, died on April 9. TOI has learned that all three died of natural causes.    Deputy superintendent of police at the NHRC said in his letter to the DM that due to non-receipt of reports on the three deaths, the cases could not be placed before the commission.    An inquiry by a judicial magistrate is mandatory in those cases of custodial death where there is reasonable suspicion of foul play or well-founded allegation of commission of an offence.    “In view of the above you look into the matter and arrange to send the requisite report within eight weeks. In case no response is received from your office, the commission may issue summons under section 13(1)(a) of the Protection of Human Rights Act to produce the requisite records in person,” the letter said.    The NHRC has directed the DM to provide all records, including details of each case, jail register of the deceased, health condition at the time of entry in jail and complete medical record of the deceased since the admission in the prisons.    NHRC has also sought an inquest report, post-mortem report along with the final opinion of cause of death besides CDs of post-mortem and magisterial enquiry report in all three cases.    When contacted, senior superintendent and jailer of central jail told TOI that as they were out of station due to some official work, they would not be able to give details relating to Balak Ram’s custodial death. However, they said most of the prisoners housed in the central jail were serving life terms.    Meanwhile, superintendent of district jail DR Maurya said both Tahir and Ambika were lodged in jail in connection with cases under the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act. “We are compiling all the records related to both deaths which will be sent to the NHRC soon,” Maurya said.