NAGPUR:   (NDACPA) is organizing Invitational Veteran Cycle Polo tournament from April 14 to 16 here at the Urdu School ground, in front of Railway Locoshed, Ajni.

 Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, NDACPA general secretary   said the matches will be played in two sessions. Morning session will be held from 6.30 am to 10 am, while evening session will start at 4.30 pm and will end on 6.30 pm. Matches will be played on league cum knock-out basis.
 
 "We have divided the former players in eight teams on lottery system. Several veteran players of the region including national-international players and Shiv Chhatrapati awardees have shown interest and wanted to play the tournament. We have formed several committees for the smooth conduct of the tourney. We will also felicitate former Shiv Chhatrapati Award winners on the second day of competition," said Burde.
 
 Sagar Meghe Group has sponsored the tournament. Girish Pandav and   have sponsored the trophies in memory of Radhika Pandav.
 
 Social worker Girish Pandav and Umesh Choube will inaugurate the tourney at 8 am on Friday. The prize distribution function will be held at 6 pm on Sunday. Kiran Pandav, Abhijit Vanjari, Raja Tidke and Ravindra Bhoyar will be the chief guests for the concluding ceremony.
 
 Besides Burde, NDACPA chairman Sushil Jham, president Pradeep Deshpande, secretary   and others were present during the press conference.
 
 
 Milind Patle (captain), Rajesh Deshmukh, Uday Indernath, Manish Mendhi, Vinod Gode.
 
 
 Dinesh Sarve (captain), Deepak Kapse, Swapneel Revatkar, Vinay Mourya, Susheel Jham.
 
 
 Pradeep Deshpande (captain), Kamlakar Godbole, Rahul Mude, Prashant Lohe.
 
 
  (captain), Vivek Banode, Yogesh Bhagadkar, Mahesh Vadaskar, Gadekar.
 
 
  Rushikesh Tamboli (captain), Nitin Tijare, Lukesh Gavhane, Rahul Fulzele, Chandrakant Tijare.
 
 
 Ajay Gondhalekar (captain), Prashant Mate, Manoj Choube, Umesh Tekade.
 
 
    (captain), Vikki Dehankar, Manoj Hirulkar, Ravi Shakya, Gajanan Burde.
 
 
 Uttam Itankar (captain), Manish Shukla, Satish Shahu, Mohan Padvanshi.
 
