BHOPAL: As soon as the results for the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) were declared on Friday, clouds of gloom and disbelief started hovering over   that had launched the ambitious ‘Super-100 scheme’ in Bhopal, as none of the students under the scheme had been able to make it to the  .

 The   had been launched during the financial year of 2012-13 for improving education standards, primarily in rural areas. Under the scheme, two toppers of class X from each district across the state, specifically in Mathematics and Biology, are given free education, lodging and private coaching. Incidentally, last year there were four students studying under the scheme who had secured positions in the merit list. However, it has come as a shocker for many that in spite of spending Rs 1 crore on 200 students under the scheme in two years, none of them have made to the list.
 
 Sunita Saxena, principal, Government Subhash Higher Secondary Excellence has expressed extreme disappointment and shock over the results saying that it would be hard to deal with the fact that none of the students from her school are in top 10 positions. “38 of our students have cleared the JEE-Mains this year. It is difficult to accept that candidates who can clear the Joint examinations are unable to secure merit positions in their board exams. Many of them have asked to see their answer scripts. If they find loopholes in the correction process, they will further apply for reevaluation,” said Sunita Saxena.
 
 A student who wished to stay anonymous said that his parents were very much disheartened with the result and are constantly asking him what went wrong. He has asked to see his answer script. Another student said, “I was preparing for the advance and now I am in deep shock. It is a crucial time and not getting in top ten is surprising to everyone.”
 
 Principal Saxena said she will be better equipped to comment about the setback only after the evaluated answer sheets are viewed by the students. “I will personally view all the answer sheets to know what went wrong,” she said.
 
 
