PUNE: BJP   Amol Ratan Balwadkar allegedly threatened to teach a police officer a lesson on Jangli Maharaj Road on Monday evening when a jammer was attached to his car after he and his   refused to remove it from the “no parking” and “no halting” zone.

 Police said the Pune Municipal Corporation’s corporator, Balwadkar, was playing games on his   sitting in the car. He and his driver allegedly refuted to oblige to the request of the police to remove the vehicle, blocking the carriageway in the peak hours between 4.30pm and 9pm near the Jungli Maharaj temple.
 
 When a jammer was attached to Balwadkar’s vehicle, he became angry. Police inspector Shankar Damse of the city traffic police lodged a complaint against the corporator with the Shivajinagar police station. Both the corporator and his driver have been   for allegedly   the cop.
 
 Balwadkar denied he was sitting in the car. “I was in my office, while the driver was in the car. I never confronted Damse or his team. The driver called me up after the police attached jammer to the vehicle. I obtained Damse’s number and requested him to remove the jammer as I was supposed to go out. I requested him to fine me if I was wrong,” he said.
 
 “I did not like the way he was talking to me and others. I informed his seniors about his behaviour. I never threatened the  , nor did I confront them. The matter was resolved at the spot. But I received a call on Tuesday morning stating that a complaint was registered against me at the Shivajinagar police station,” the corporator said.
 
 According to the complaint, Balwadkar and his driver were sitting in the stationary car in the “no parking” and “no halting” zone on the road. Damse and his team were clearing the traffic on the road to ease the evening rush then. The complaint states the police team first requested Balwadkar and his driver to drive away from the spot as it was hindering the vehicular flow.
 
 According to the police, Balwadkar kept on playing games on his cellphone and ignored the pleas made by the police. As he did not leave the spot, Damse ordered a constable to put a jammer to Balwadkar’s car. As ordered, the jammer was attached to his vehicle’s wheel.
 
 When the constable was attaching the jammer to his car, Balwadkar was infuriated. He allegedly said he was a corporator and would teach the policemen a lesson.
 
