LUCKNOW: The   is swelling unabated. In the last three days’  , it has shown a rising trend. At Elgin bridge in Barabanki the river is flowing at 106.3metres, about 23cms above the  . With medium to heavy-intensity rains predicted in the Terai region in the next 24 hours, where Ghaghra flows, there seems to be no ebbing of the river. Relief work has begun in Barabanki. 

 At Turtipar, Ballia, at 92.5m, the Ghaghra is only 51cm below the danger mark. 
 
 Sharda river at Paliakalan in Lakhimpur-Kheri and Rohini river at Trimohanighat in Maharajganj have both crossed the danger mark, though their stable trend is some respite. The level of Sharda is 154.6metres at Palia, 98cm above the danger mark while Rohini is flowing at 82.4metres, about 2cms above the mark. It was in 2001 that Rohini had last reported deluge. Sharda and Ghaghra had both attained their maximum dangerous levels in 2014. 
 
 Sharda originates in Nepal and flows in UP to join Ghaghra, a tributary of Ganga.   flowing in the terai region (Sharda, Rapti, Ghaghra and Gomti), eastern region (Rapti, Ghaghra and Ganga), central parts (Ghaghra, Sai, Ganga, Gomti) and western region (Ramganga and Ganga) of UP might swell with medium to havy intensity rains predicted in the coming 24 hours. 
 
 Meanwhile, rivers that are flowing merely 50cms abover the mark of danger in UP are Ghaghra at Ayodhya, flowing at 92.5 metres, about 23cms below the mark; Rapti at Rigauli, Gorakhpur, flowing only 31cms below the mark of danger at 79.9metres and Kuaon river at Chandradeepghat in Gonda flowing at 88.8metres about 3cms below the mark of danger. Again, it is Ghaghra at Ayodhya which is rising while the two other rivers are stable. 
 
 Ganga is rising in Kanpur city, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Ghazipur and Ballia. At Kanpur, it is 4.4mts below the red-mark, at Mirzapur 10.1mts below the mark, at Varanasi 8.5mt below the mark, at Ballia it is 4.8mts below the mark and at Ghazipur it is 7.4mt below the danger mark. Ganga is being monitored at 12 points in UP in Bulandshahr, Farrukhabad, Kannauj, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur city, Rae Bareli, Allahabad (two locations), Mirzapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur and Ballia. At both locations in Allahabad, on the contrary, the water level is receding. 
 
 Ramganga’s level has increased only at Kalagarh, Bijnor and is showing a rising trend. At Moradabad and Bareilly, the trend is stable but river level is 3m and 4m below the mark, respectively. At Dabri, Shahjahanpur, river water has receded and is 2.8m below the danger mark. Yamuna is being monitored at 12 locations in Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, two locations in Mathura, Agra, Etawah, Auraiya, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Banda and Allahabad.
 
 Yamuna water shows a rising trend only at Auraiya where it is 12m below the danger-mark. At Prayag-ghat, Mathura, it is 1.3m below the mark, at Agra, 5.2m below the mark and at Etawah 5.3m. Betwa river, on the other hand, is stable at Jhansi, Jalaun and Hamirpur. Ken river is stable at Banda being 9.7m below the mark of danger.
 
 Gomti is being monitored at Neemsar and Bhatpurwaghat in Sitapur, Lucknow, Sultanpur and Jaunpur. The river level is stable at Lucknow and other locations. Sai, Gomti's tributary, is being monitored at Bani in Lucknow and Rae Bareli. At Rae Bareli, the river water shows a rising trend and is flowing at 1.7m below the mark of danger. 
 
 Gandak, the river from Nepal, is flowing only 80cms below the mark of danger in Khadda, Kushinagar. Kuan, is flowing only 3cms below the danger mark in Chandradeepghat in Gonda and is rising at Basti, 2.3mts below the mark and is stable at Mukhlispur, Sant Kabir Nagar where the river is 2.7m below the mark of danger. 
 
 Rapti being monitored at Kakardhari in Bahraich, Bhinga in Shravasti, Balrampur, Bansi in Siddharthnagar, Rigauli and Bardghat in Gorakhpur shows a rising trend in Bahraih, Siddharthnagar, Gorakhpur and Balrampur. At Bahraich, it is 1.7 m below the mark, at Siddharthnagar it is 1.5m below the mark, at Gorakhpur (Bardghat) 1.3mts below the danger mark and at Balrampur it is 64cms below the red mark. 
 
 
