In a disturbing  , the 19-year-old son of the jailer at   has been   for running over a 22-year-old  .

 Interestingly, although the incident took place on February 26, the FIR was only registered on the night of March 2, with the victim’s family alleging that the jailer was trying to pressure them and influence the police into hushing the case.
 
 The survivor, Sabasahera Shaikh, who was to appear for her Class XII board exam externally, was returning from a coaching class and crossing the road when the speeding car hit her, right opposite the Jail Road police chowky. Witnesses said that some passers-by chased the car for at least a kilometre before the youth was apprehended. Sabasahera is currently undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) of Jehangir Hospital.
 
 The accused has been identified as Abhimanyu Jagtap, a management student and son of Pradip Jagtap, the jailer at Yerwada prison. According to the first information report (FIR), the complaint was lodged by the girl’s mother-in-law, Mumtaz Zabbar Shaikh (47).
 
 The incident took place when Sabasahera, a resident of Sanjay Park, was coming home from the Saraswati Classes coaching centre at Yerwada in the afternoon of February 26. She had called her husband, Zohaib Shaikh (28), to pick her up, and around 3.30 pm, when she was crossing the road, a speeding white Hyundai i10 (MH12 NP7176) hit her and drove off.
 
 Zohaib told Mirror, “My mother called me around 3.45 pm, saying Sabasahera had been injured in an accident. Local residents told her she was in Sahyadri Hospital, from where we moved her to Jehangir Hospital. She sustained head injuries and multiple fractures to the knee and back.”
 
 CCTV footage from the spot, a copy of which is with Pune Mirror, shows the white car hit Sabasahera and throw her at least three feet into the air, before she falls onto the other side of the divider. The victim is the mother of a twoyear- old, and was appearing for the board exam as an an external candidate from the Anglo Urdu School, Camp. She used to go to her coaching classes every day at noon and return by 3.30 pm.
 
 Zohaib further elaborated, “A friend of mine told me that the car had driven off in the direction of 509 Chowk, where some passers-by chased and caught it. But, the accused denied that he had hit anyone and fled. On Monday, we went to the regional transport office (RTO) and found his address through the registration system. When we reached his home, Abhimanyu’s parents also denied that he was involved. Finally, when we showed them the CCTV footage, they realised the truth. But, they tried to influence the police to stifle the case. His father suggested that we arrive at some compromise by not filing an FIR, saying he would bear all the medical expenses. On Thursday night, we filed the FIR.”
 
 Jagtap, father of the accused, only said, “We tried to convince them not to file an FIR as my son did not intend to hurt anyone. It was an accident.”
 
 Police sub inspector of Jail Road police chowky, Arun Gaud, explained, “Earlier, a non-cognisable offence (NC) was registered only because our inquiry was still on. We registered the FIR on Thursday night. We have not arrested the accused yet.”
 
 Abhimanyu has been charged with offences under sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others), 132 (1) (abetment of mutiny, if mutiny is committed in consequence thereof), 119 (public servant concealing design to commit offence which it is his duty to prevent) and 177 (furnishing false information) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
