KOLKATA: A day after chief minister   reiterated the need to cut down on  , Lalbazar has decided to install more speed guns on   and link them with Lalbazar traffic control room. The chief minister has reportedly asked city police chief Rajeev Kumar to rein in speed devils on the flyover.

 According to top traffic officials at Lalbazar, they will set up five more speed guns next week on the flyover. One such gadget has already been installed on the flyover. TOI had earlier highlighted how this would reflect the exact speed of the vehicle being driven past it. Eventually, the total number of speed guns on the flyover will be taken to 12.
 
 So, how will the new system work? “We will have the speed-gun readings and also the number plate readings from CCTVs. These will be fed directly to the Lalbazar traffic control room. The challans will be sent from Lalbazar to the errant motorist’s address,” said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar.
 
 Police sources said there are two ideas behind this. One, stop the policemen from physically standing on the flyover thereby risking their lives. Two, the footage will provide ready-made evidence in case they are challenged. “We are also sending the photographs with the challans to avoid controversies,” claimed a source. Lalbazar, not local traffic guard, will directly monitor traffic violations on Maa flyover. Sources also insisted that this monitoring will be extended to other “high-risk” zones like AJC Bose Road flyover soon.
 
 Sources said the new system is expected to be kicked off in another 10 days. “We will also carry out surprise checks and on-spot fines using the speed radar guns manually,” claimed a source.
 
 Meanwhile, police said they might ask road engineers to have a re-look at the maximum speed limits on Maa flyover. “One must remember that the flyover has some sharp bends and turns and there have been instances when vehicles have toppled over. But we are ready to take a re-look at the maximum speed limits once we are convinced the new system is paying dividends,” said an officer.
 
 
