BENGALURU: “Only two per cent of a photography project requires operating the camera. The rest is all about knowing your subject well and telling a compelling story.” This is wildlife photographer Anand Varma’s mantra when he works with scientists across the globe and captures the processes involving living beings.

 Anand, a budding biologist who by a twist of fate became an award-winning photographer with  , addressed young scientists on Monday at the   ( ) on using photography to communicate with the public.
 
 As part of the NCBS-NatGeo initiative, Shoot for Science is the first-of-its-kind workshop that aims to equip scientists with the powerful tool of photography to make them more visually literate and enable them to communicate their work more effectively.
 
 “It’s all about how you can draw the reader to your subject. These are ways of contributing to the knowledge among people about natural history as well,” said Varma.
 
 What began as a hobby turned into a career for Varma when he got to photograph a raft of fire ants for the magazine. “I had very little training in photography. My father had a camera that I borrowed during graduation and a workshop. I learnt through reading, watching videos and experimenting on my own,” he told TOI.
 
 “Every story is different. Though I struggled in the beginning, by the third story I was pretty confident about what I was doing,” Anand added. From capturing the first 21 days of honey bees and parenting behaviour among primates to explaining parasite infections among living organisms, Varma redefines science and natural history with every project through his time-lapse techniques and lighting efficiency.
 
 Speaking of going back to academia, he said, “Though I don’t really want to go back to academia, I want to link it to what I do. This workshop allows me to understand how best I can integrate the two. To train scientists to be better storytellers is one way of doing it. I work on one project a year, which is like working on a research project in some ways. There aren’t enough science photographers so this training is one way inspiring researchers.”
 
 The workshop hosts a series of hands-on sessions and lectures at the NCBS campus, GKVK. The next lecture will be delivered by Kurt Mutchler, senior photo editor at National Geographic, on science stories in the magazine. 
 
 Connect with the reader
 
 While natural history and widlife photography is gaining popularity among young shutterbugs, the journey isn’t very rosy unless they can connect with the reader. Varma explained: “It is important to think closely about what he/she can offer to the client. There’s a distinction between passion and needs. No matter how passionate you are, there isn’t much you can offer if you can’t cater to your readers’ needs.”
 
