Santhosh N,   at home every day. It is the comfort of the attire and the sense of   to his culture that keeps the   in Tamil Nadu’s traditional whites. Veshtis may be comfort wear for most Tamils, but the whites have been lately gaining popularity thanks to social media campaigns by e-commerce firms, ‘ethnic days’ at offices, and marketing initiatives by big brands.

 In a market dominated by brands such as Ramraj, MCR, Poomex, Premier and Viking, a cotton veshti costs around `400. "The scene is very different from 1977, when I was an employee in the veshti business. Those wearing veshtis were looked down upon and weavers were paid a pittance," says K R Nagarajan, chairman of the 34-year-old  
 
 Though the 4.5 metres for men is a conventional wear, Chennai hasn’t always been open to it. Clubs and bars often refused entry to men in veshtis, and in 2014, a Madras high court judge in a veshti was denied entry into the   Cricket Association club. The matter went to court, and very soon, the Tamil Nadu Entry into Public Places (Removal of restriction of dress) Act, 2014 was passed to remove the ban on veshtis and other traditional Indian attire in public places.
 
 Nagarajan says the veshti was popularised through advertisements, campaigns and talks in colleges. "When young people are sensitised about their culture, they automatically come forward to wear veshtis. Now, with 80% of the market share, the company provides livelihood to 20,000 families," he adds. His company constantly introduces innovations such as veshtis with Velcro, zips and pockets.
 
 To promote the handloom industry, Co-optex introduced a dhoti day in January 2014. "This initiative has created a perceptible change in 20-something customers. We have sold veshtis worth close to `1 crore so far in 2017, a 20% jump from the previous year. While most of the purchases are from tier 2 and 3 cities, urban areas are also catching up with the corporates and colleges allocating a day for ethnic wear," says Venkatesh TN, MD, Co-optex. "Boys from VIT, Ramachandra and Shastra universities bought veshtis in bulk." A group of young people has started an e-commerce venture, The Veshti Company, to support the handloom industry and promote veshtis. "It is more than just an item of clothing. It symbolises the moment when a man is ready to stand tall and take on the world. Veshtis are a classic, transcending time as well as the ever-changing fashion trends," says Sandhya Winfred, one of the four co-founders.
 
 "The best way to save the veshti is to revive it in a modern way to match the tastes of today’s generation," says  , another co-founder whose father has manufactured veshtis. The Veshti Company plans to use social media to sell its product. "We wanted to start an online portal before setting up a shop in the future," he adds.
 
 As part of the initiative to revive veshti, the founders plan to post videos about the manufacturing of veshtis and handloom wear. "We have a blog to encourage people to write about different aspects of tradition and culture," says Winfred. Their first 100 customers to use the code ‘BeDressponsible’ will get a discount on veshtis.
 
