PUNE: As the   goes into an   in the city, it seems that all is not quite in order within their own ranks.

 Just two days after the   organized a massive helmet awareness rally, several cops were caught driving without the protective headgear in the city on Tuesday. While some were challaned by the traffic department, many others tried to give police a slip by donning jackets and shirts on top of their uniforms to hide their identity. 
 
 As per road safety experts, the traffic police officers will do well if they lead by example and always wear helmets when riding. Non-compliance with the   reflects poorly on police, they added.
 
 Saji Cherian, director (operations) at SaveLIFE Foundation, said, “Fatalities among two-wheeler riders can be reduced by 30-40% if the helmet rule is strictly followed. If the police officers adhere to the rule themselves, they can get more people to follow suit. In fact, ordinary citizens must click pictures of helmetless police personnel and send them to the police department to keep a check on errant cops.”
 
 Strict penalty must be imposed on cops who don’t follow the rule, Anil Mandrupkar, co-founder of Helmet Pune, an NGO, said. “Only sloganeering is not going to bring about any change. Making helmets a part of routine must become an ongoing process. Attendance of police officers can be linked to their adherence to the helmet rule and those flouting it even repeatedly must be penalized. This culture has been introduced in more than 100 corporate offices in the city over the last one year. And it is working well,” he said. 
 
 Reminding the police force about their role in upholding the law, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Kalpana Baravkar said, “There are strict instructions for everyone in the force to wear helmets when they are riding. More than anything, it is the responsibility of police to practice what is being enforced on the general public. We welcome feedback on this issue and keep challaning the officers caught riding without helmets.”
 
