CHANDIGARH:  , the co-leader for the   research team at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, feels the restrictions imposed by US President   and Brexit will limit research collaborations and have made scientists nervous. Martin was at the British Library here on Monday. Earlier in the day, she delivered a lecture at Panjab University (PU).

 “The big concern here is that it will limit collaborations, not only scientific but cultural as well. It is going to be harder for us to travel and communicate with people,” Martin said.
 
 The Higgs boson - the last particle of the standard model of particle physics — was discovered at the Large   (LHC) at CERN in 2012, almost 50 years after it was first predicted by Peter Higgs. “Now, the focus is on characterizing the Higgs boson to compare with theoretical predictions. To date, measurements of the couplings to other bosons and a precise measurement of its mass have been made, but a full characterization requires much larger datasets. Several approaches are planned or proposed to obtain these data. The high luminosity run of the LHC (HL-LHC) will start in 2026,” said Martin.
 
 She added that the focus was now on to create more and more Higgs boson and study what the dark matter in the universe was made of. “Dark matter is a mystery.We actually don’t know what it is made of? We are actually going to study properties of the dark matter,” said Martin.
 
 Martin delivered a public lecture on “The Higgs Boson: Past, Present and Future” at the department of physics, PU. The lecture was organized by the British Council in association with PU under the “Science and Beyond” series.
 
 Martin started the discussion with two fundamental questions: What is this universe made up of and how do constituents of universe interact? Later, she talked about the Higgs mechanism and Higgs boson particle, through which all particles acquire mass.
 
 She also discussed the discovery of the Higgs boson by CMS and ATLAS collaboration at CERN, Geneva, which got another   in Physics in 2013. She concluded her talk with future outlook, in which scientists were looking for new colliders to help solve several questions.
 
 Higgs Boson member says…
 
 Brexit and restrictions imposed by US President Donald Trump make us nervous
 
 Big concern is limiting collaborations
 
 Will make harder for us to travel and communicate with people for research
 
 What we look forward to now is creating more and more Higgs boson
 
 Study what the dark matter in the universe is made of
 
 
