JALANDHAR: After Punjab local government minister   announced war on cable ‘mafia’, extensive door-to-door surveys have been launched by municipal bodies across the state to find the poles being used by operators to hang cables. Meanwhile,,   have started submitting memorandums to local MLAs, claiming they would be at the receiving end when a major cable company is targeted by Sidhu for alleged serious violations. 

 The local cable operators, especially those associated with Fastway, have also submitted memorandums through municipal authorities, demanding correct counting of poles used by them for hanging cables. They have requested that their representatives should also be taken along as cables of telecommunication companies on poles were also being counted in their accounts.
 
 “We contacted your local staff and tried to understand the methodology followed by them to count the MC poles being used by telecom operators and local cable operator. During the discussion it was found that they are noting all the poles having overhead cable laid on them,” reads a memo by Cable TV Operators Welfare Association addressed to the secretary, local government department submitted through MC commissioners.
 
 The association claimed that other private telecom operators were also using the MC poles. They urged the department that representatives of local cable operators and telecom companies should also be taken along the MC staffers for correct enumeration. They alleged that currently the MC employees were tagging all poles to the local cable operators associated with Fastway.
 
 Sidhu had charged Fastway with irregularities and tax evasion, both of which were denied by the company.
 
 The memo of cable operators being submitted to the MLAs is targeting Sidhu also. “We are living under a constant threat that some action is being planned for Fastway operators only as a personal vendetta of a political personality. We feel that one person cannot hijack the whole ministry for personal grudge against any particular company,” reads a memo submitted by Amritsar Cable Operators Association to local MLAs.
 
 “We are only demanding a fair treatment, correct count of poles as we are already paying to Punjab   Limited (PSPCL) for using its poles and are ready to pay for using MC poles also,” said association president  
 
