We caught up with Milind on the sidelines of an event and spoke about life, fitness and Kolkata. Excerpts:

 You completed the grueling Ultraman race in February. What’s next?
 I don’t consider the Ironman or Ultraman races milestones. These are the challenges I take up to see if I can overcome them with my level of fitness. But I don’t train for them; I just do things that excite me. If any other race in any other country excites me, I’ll go for it.
 
 At 50, you’re still called a sex symbol. Hasn’t so much female attention ever made you feel uncomfortable?
 They call me a sex symbol because I make them feel good in certain ways. And why should I feel uncomfortable? Because I am 50? No way! Look at Tom Cruise; he’s older than me and is called a sex symbol. So are Brad Pitt or SRK. Being surrounded by women makes you feel wanted; which guy wouldn’t crave for that?
 
 Fitness and Milind have become synonymous...
 Yeah, strangely! And especially   has written so much about my fitness goals and regime.
 
 But don’t you get bored talking about fitness all the time?
 I left modelling in 1995 and guess what, till three years ago, I was talking about fashion and modelling all the time! My involvement with fitness has been very recent and as a matter of fact, I like these discussions more than talking about fashion.
 
 Your women-only marathon had been launched in other cities around 2006, but it took 11 years to come to Kolkata. Why?
 Does it matter anymore? We are here, finally! Till a couple of years ago, I couldn’t spot strong running communities. And that’s where Kolkata was lagging far behind cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore or even Chennai and Hyderabad. These cities have running groups in every corner. I also heard that you’re not allowed to cycle on the main roads here. Which is like... I don’t know. But yeah, one thing I can say to encourage enthusiasts is that no place is perfect. You have to shrug off these excuses, come out on the roads and run.
 
 Do you think this has something to do with the Bengali laziness?
 I don’t think Bengalis are lazier than Maharashtrians. Maharashtrians and Bengalis are the two laziest communities in the country. But I can see the scenario changing.
 
 Critics say marathon and triathlons are becoming money-making machines. They are calling it a business...
 Well, it is a business. But it’s a better business than selling biscuits, junk food or cola, isn’t it? Any business that encourages people to be healthy and fit should be encouraged.
 
 Anything special happening on the love front?
 I don’t like to talk about my love life, but yes, I might get married to my girlfriend soon. But would you call that a special plan? I don’t know…
 
 One actor from   whose fitness regime excites you…
 Akshay Kumar.
 
 One super food that you swear by...
 It’s daal, chawal and sabzi cooked together. Oh yeah, it’s called khichdi (winks).
