NEW DELHI: Blaming Aam Aadmi Party for lack of transparency,   and her supporters joined Congress on Tuesday. Azad had become an AAP member in November 2016. She said she was born into a family that supported Congress and joining the grand old party felt like returning home. This development comes at a time when civic polls are due in the next 12 days, on April 23. 

 "Congress is like my home. My parents supported the party. I don't fit into AAP as there is no transparency within the party and their manner of working is different from mine," Azad said.
 
 Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) chief Ajay Maken said that nearly 90 national leaders from across the country - including former Union ministers, MPs, MLAs, ex-DPCC presidents and former Delhi cabinet ministers - will campaign for Congress in the municipal elections. He added that the party has always raised the issues of Poorvanchalis and Uttaranchalis and would continue to do it.
 
 Maken said senior functionaries like Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid will join morning walkers in parks to talk about Congress's plans for improvement of the corporations. They will also talk about making the civic bodies financially self-reliant by raising their own resources, solid waste management, primary education and primary health.
 
 A control room has been setup at DPCC to coordinate with the senior members. "We will talk about issues like the problems of street vendors, education, environment, health and sanitation," Maken said. 
 
 Slamming BJP and AAP, Maken said that instead of holding big rallies and giving big speeches Congress will find solutions to people's problems. The campaigning will start from April 12 with Shashi Tharoor's visit to Jahanpanah Forest to interact with morning walkers. 
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Pradesh South Indian Congress condemned BJP leader Tarun Vijay's remarks against the south Indian community and a resolution was passed against him.
 
 Former Union minister AK Antony said BJP, which has been in power in the municipalities for 15 years, and AAP, which has been ruling Delhi for over two years, have failed. "People are afraid to come to Delhi due to pollution and mounds of garbage," he said.
 
 
