MUMBAI: In a sign of growing voter interest in local issues, turnout for the BMC elections hit a record 55% on Tuesday—and they are still counting. This was, numerically, the strongest response to a civic poll in Mumbai in the last 25 years, going by figures available with TOI.

 The crowds even exceeded the 53% turnout recorded in the general elections of 2014 at the height of the Modi wave and matched the 55% in assembly polls later that year. As for the last civic poll, the 44.75% turnout in 2012 pales in comparison.
 
 Tuesday’s voting percentages would have been higher had thousands of names not gone missing from the electoral list. Mumbai has 91.8 lakh registered voters, but discrepancies were widespread.
 
 Queues were so long that around 100 polling booths across the city extended timings and permitted people to vote until 7.30pm because they had lined up before 5.30pm. Provisional figures by the BMC’s election department showed a surge in Gujarati-dominated localities including Dahisar (60%), Borivli-Gorai (61.5%), Kandivli (57%), Vikhroli-Mulund (60.5%) and Ghatkopar (54.5%). Locations ranked at the bottom were Malabar Hill -Walkeshwar-Grant Road (47.25%), at par with Marine Lines-Marine Drive-Bhuleshwar. 
 
 Still, south Mumbai which has traditionally posted scanty voter turnouts of 30-35%, improved considerably on its record.
 
 A spurt in voting numbers is commonly accepted as a sign of anti-incumbency. On Tuesday, speculation was rife that the participation of middle class and affluent voters in such large numbers would hurt the prospects of the Shiv Sena which has controlled the BMC for 20 consecutive years.
 
 “The   contested only 60 seats during the previous civic election in 2012. Traditional BJP supporters of Ghatkopar did not bother to vote in all these years owing to the Sena-BJP alliance. Most seats were allocated to the Sena. They did not care whether the Sena won or the Congress did. Now that the BJP is contesting on all 227 seats, they feel they need to endorse their party,” said longtime resident Manu Shah.
 
 On the other hand, Sena loyalists felt the Marathi vote had consolidated in favour of the party, hence the boom in turnout. In the Marathi heartland of Dadar and Girangaon, it was not just Sena loyalists who turned out in strength. The NOTA brigade also waited patiently to declare their dissatisfaction with available candidates. This is the first time that the NOTA option was included on electronic voting machines (EVMs) in a civic election.
 
 Activist  , who sent out mass messages urging people to cast their ballot, received a few responses saying no candidate was worth the trouble. She, in turn, pointed them to the NOTA button.
 
 Anger and distress was also on display at many booths, especially from harried Mumbaikars who could not find their names on the electoral list. Many of them had voted in the 2014 elections and had not shifted residence either. Disabled persons, elderly  , first-time voters were all affected.
 
 K West ward of Andheri (W), Vile Parle (W) and Jogeshwari (W) recorded 47.39%, among the lowest. Poor turnout could be partly attributed to missing names. In Lokhandwala, hearing impaired Nikhil Chanchlani stood helplessly with his voter I-card in hand. “He was able to cast his ballot in 2014, how can his name be deleted arbitrarily?” his mother said. Another woman Sarita Shah found her father’s name, not her own. “My father passed away years ago,” she said.
 
 Lines moved slowly as residents argued with poll officials. “In Mulund the EVM failed to function at the start of the day and this led to long lines,” said resident Jatin Panjwani.
 
 Inexperienced election staff added to the confusion. In many places, the master voters’ list which helps to search names was not given to booth level volunteers. At some locations, volunteers did not even know that an online list was available and could be referenced. “It was a poorly managed show at the polling centres this year. Delimitation created confusion amongst voters which the booth level staff could not resolve,” said Virendra Mishra, a resident of Parel.
 
 
