Rahul Ovhal, a 20-year-old second year mechanical engineering student, has not voted in an election so far but on Tuesday he was on special duty at a polling booth in Moshi.

 Like Rahul, at least 550 engineering students were roped in by the private agency hired by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation to assist voters at polling booths. In Pune, non-government organisations and political parties took help of tech-savvy students to make the voting process easier for citizens. Equipped with laptops, the students helped voters in finding their names and identifying polling booths.
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Dinesh Waghmare said, “We outsourced the job, using election fund, to a private agency for the first time. The students were given day-long training in various aspects of voting on Saturday.“
 
 “Practically, it's not possible to appoint extra manpower and, hence, we took this step. The move delivered positive results,“ Waghmare added.
 
 A student of Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering (PCCoE), Akurdi, Ovhal said: “It was a completely different experience for me. We were trained to help voters in searching their names, ward and booth numbers so that they did not face difficulties while voting.“
 
 Samir Thorat, a third year mechanical engineering student from the same college, said, “I could not go for voting to my native place Nanded due to my classes, but I am happy that I could help voters here.“ Akash Masram, another student who was posted at the Indrayaninagar polling booth in Bhosari, said voters were happy with his assistance as they could cast their votes easily. Residents from Moshi, Bhosari, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Nilakh, Wakad and Sangvi areas were happy with the overall service and felt that the initiative should be repeated in next elections.
 
 Businessman Avinash Tengle from Bhosari said, “Engineering students are comfortable with technology, therefore, the authorities should rope them in for such jobs.They were of good help as citizens were finding it difficult to find their names in the voters' list.“
 
 At polling booths within   limits, youth volunteers carrying laptops were seen helping people in the voting process.
 
 “We have recruited young peo ple because they are tech-savvy and fast at doing things,“ a BJP leader from   ward said.
 
 Ashok Sharma, a resident of Anand Park in Vadgaonsheri, said, “Voters seemed to be satisfied with the service. I approached one such help centre as I did not know my exact polling booth. The young people there were very cooperative, and searched my wife's and my name on the website. This was of great help.“
 
 The students were too happy with the experience.
 
 “The work was easy as the websites gave details instantly. It was a good opportunity to learn about voting and politics in general,“ said Prashant Chaudhry, a volunteer at one of the help centres in the city.
 
