NAGPUR: City Congress president and former mayor  , who has been in the   for two decades, has a word of caution for poll pundits. “Be ready for a big surprise. We will win this time as people are disgusted with  , the facade of development,   of services,” he said. Thakre told TOI that Congress will be in a position to rule in the NMC by winning between 65 and 70 seats. Excerpts:

 
 
 In ten long years, the BJP has denied citizens basic amenities. To make matters worse, privatization of water supply has jacked up water rates from Rs4 to Rs17. Private operators — be it for city bus service, cable duct laying, 24x7 water supply — have all been favoured by BJP leaders. All this has come at a cost for general public while the NMC has suffered huge financial losses. Today, the NMC is bankrupt, barely managing to pay staff salaries.
 
 
 
 
 Road work is all sham. Main roads built under IRDP that were in good condition are being shaved to lay cement ones in the most haphazard manner. The arterial roads are neglected. 24x7 water scheme is a big mess with water tariff peaking to Rs17-18 a unit up from Rs4.
 
 
 
 I have raised each and every scam — cement roads, Star Bus service, cable duct laying, OCW contract — vociferously and brought the mayor and civic administration on knees. But then, what can you do when the ruling party decides to favour such private players. For laying ducts without approvals, the NMC slapped a fine of Rs55 cr. But then it meekly accepted Rs14 lakh and did not take any action against the companies for all irregularities. Similarly, the mayor assured the house that FIR will be filed against Star Bus operator Vansh-Nimay but failed to do so in 30 months. No action was taken in wood scam of Rs2 cr at crematoriums. Ditto in tar scam or cartel hoardings affair.
 
 
 
 
 A: Hardly 5% rebels are left in the fray. The NCP factor will not matter as that party hardly has presence in the city, and it won only six seats last time. The strongest point for us, even if you assume senior leaders have differences, it never percolates to grassroots workers who have unflinching faith in the party and work relentlessly.
 
 Moreover, we have beaten the BJP by carefully picking four members from each prabhag. This was done months ago and each team has already completed a couple of rounds of house -to-house campaign. It is this personal touch with the electorate that will see us through. The BJP is complacent, has more internal disputes and taking its voter base for granted. The results will be there for all to see.
 
