KOLKATA: Here’s a scoop. Häagen-Dazs, the official ice-cream partner at   and French Open, is set to serve lip-smacking flavours from Valentine’s Day eve! The first servings in Kolkata will be from an experience shop on Sarat Bose Road.
 
  Salil Murthy, maanaging director of  , the maker of Häagen-Dazs ice cream, told TOI: “We have plans to play big in the city vis-à-vis east. We will be present in key localities with experience shops, island shops and kiosks through organic and inorganic expansion.”
  
  Dazs, the iconic US ice cream brand, is known for its taste, quality and innovation with presence in more than 50 countries. A company source close to the development said,   India actually has a plan to unveil 4-5 outlets in this part of the country.
  
  The Rs 7,500-crore per annum ice-cream market in India is growing at 17%-18%. Premium ice-cream share is growing even faster. Per capita consumption, however, remains way below global average in this highly seasonal and fragmented market. “There is significant upside to grow the category and Häagen-Dazs is ideally placed to capture share,” said Murthy.
  
  In India, Amul is the clear leader, followed by Kwality Wall’s, Vadilal, Mother Dairy, Cream Bell, Metro Dairy and Rollick. Super-premium ice cream brands like Gelato Italiano, Mama Mia!, The Cream & Fudge Factory and   are currently fighting for the remaining 5% pie.
  
  Adhiraj Thirani, director of Gelato giant Mama Mia which has made a mark in Kolkata, says people are becoming more discerning about quality that is creating opportunities for niche players. “Competition removes psychological price barriers. When Magnum came, people balked at paying Rs 90 plus for a chocobar stick. But now, it is considered the ‘new normal’. When Häagen-Dazs enters the market with a significantly higher priced product, it may reset the bar and allow others to be perceived as a value option,” he reasoned.
  
  Anisha Agarwal, director at Rollick, feels Kolkatans are opening up to try new things as they are becoming more aware of global flavours. “International products with local flavours also make them popular. For instance, Nolen gur cheesecake or Blueberry doi. Dessert shops also double up as a hangout while sweet shops are mostly takeaways. However, given the population of our city, there is plenty of space for everyone and the pie is only getting bigger,” she said.
  
  The eating-out culture, increasing urbanisation, rising incomes, consumer awareness, improved cold supply chain and growth of modern and well-located retail facilities are making ice cream brands a big hit, said Kolkata-born Arjoon Bose, head of marketing, UK and Northern Europe, at General Mills.
  
  The mushrooming ice cream parlours dotting the cityscape in the last three-four years is nothing but a “cold revolution”, feel industry experts.
