CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is ready to roll out the   (GST) on July 1, the scheduled date, for which the state government has already brought 86% of the dealers under the new tax regime. Customization of software for GST is also progressing well, said state   minister D   speaking at the GST council in New Delhi on Saturday. 

 After holding out on joining the new tax regime during the tenure of former chief minister  , the successive state governments under O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami have been claiming credit for inclusion of several clauses in the final GST Act. On Saturday, the state declared it was ready for the roll out.
 
 "Tamil Nadu is fully committed to the roll out and successful implementation of the GST. We are fully geared up as far as IT hardware is concerned. Software customization is also progressing well. As soon as GST and compensation laws are passed by  , we will be in a position to place the state GST bill before the assembly," said Jayakumar.
 
 Rolling out GST involves training of officials, traders and upgrading software, hardware and including traders, who were hitherto paying excise and not sales tax.
 
 "So far 5.19 lakh dealers out of 6.01 lakh have migrated to the new tax regime and have been registering online. The commercial taxes department has achieved this feat in a short period from January this year," a senior tax department official told TOI.
 
 Tamil Nadu sought to keep out alcohol and petroleum outside the purview of GST. "Both are money spinners for the government and similar demands were raised by other states and finally both are outside GST," said the official.
 
 The state was also successful in seeking compensation for the loss of revenue after implementation of the new tax regime for five years.
 
 During the Saturday meeting, the minister said the state and central government officers should exercise equal power under all three laws - SGST, CGST and IGST.
 
 But, economists and tax experts feel the government must do much more before the tax regime is rolled out. "Government must take steps to train the officials concerned in the use of new software and above all involve the existing tax payers," said   economist R Srinivasan.
 
 "There are many traders and manufacturers who have only paid excise and have not dealt with state tax department. With the GST there may be swapping of tax payers between Centre and state. State government must train the tax payers in the new system at the earliest," said Srinivasan.
 
 
