Coming to Lucknow for the second time, actor   had already made plans on what he wanted to do while in the city ."I definitely plan to visit my two favourite places in Lucknow­ Chowk and Hazratganj," said Mohit, who was here for the promotion of his latest show  , currently on air."I have heard that   has changed a lot because of the Metro construction. I am eagerly waiting to see the changes that have happened there.As far is Chowk is concerned, I am dying to eat the Lakhnawi kebabs. Before coming to Lucknow I was told by people that Tunday's has closed down. I was scared that Lucknow mein kabab milna band ho gaye, but when I landed here I got to know that only the beef kebabs aren't available and chicken and mutton ones are thankfully available. So I actually breathed a sigh of relief after knowing this."

 
  
 Mohit, who has earlier appeared in shows like Bade Achhe Lagte Hain, Kya Huaa Tera Vaada, among others, is happy doing a show with a definite number of episodes. “I am happy doing a show which will have several seasons. I have already shot for 40 episodes before the launch. There will be no change in the script as per the TRPs as we are bound by a definite story-line and it will have 260 episodes only. Working for this kind of a show comes with its share of benefits, like for example as an actor, I know everything about my character from start to end. In other daily shows, we play a very impromptu game where we actually don't know where our character is going. Everything is dependent on TRPs in other daily shows. This show that I am doing is like a film. You can also plan you career ahead since we know when the show is going to end," he shares.
 
 And planning his career well, Mohit says it is only the fiction shows which are attracting him at the moment. “I have been offered   several times, but I don't want to do a show like that. I am not saying I will not do it ever, but not at this point of time. Fiction shows are more important to my career as of now," he says. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
