MUMBAI:   on Tuesday summoned   Aggarwal, father of   Corp chairman  , in a dispute between the builder and home buyers who have alleged gross delay in getting possession of their duplex flats. They had booked flats in a Nepean Sea Road project of the builder 8 years ago. 

 Ravikiran, whole-time director at Orbit, was summoned to explain his stance in an affidavit on security appointed at the site of the 31-storey luxury building, Orbit Haven. Buyers had dragged the builder to court to secure possession as construction was on hold and a bank said the flats had been mortgaged to it.
 
 The court was looking into the aspect of protecting the building and the premises as buyers and the bank apprehended that vandals might enter and cause damage.
 
 Pujit is still in judicial custody after his arrest by the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai police last year in an alleged cheating case. 
 
 Justice S J Kathawalla asked Ravikiran how many security guards were at the site. Perhaps two, he replied, along with “support staff’’ meant to protect expensive machinery, including unboxed elevators, which cost over Rs 10 crore. His affidavit had said there were four security guards. 
 
 Ravikiran said the guards were placed by an agency which owed him for their success and added that he had no money to pay them full time. “So they work for you for free, without uniform too?” asked the judge, questioning him over the discrepancy in his affidavit, which the court had directed him to file on Monday. Ravikiran said he was “not happy” with the affidavit, which his lawyer Veenu Khatri had tendered, as it was made in a hurry. He said “sometimes there are two or four guards”.
 
 One of the buyers, in a suit filed through advocate Satyen Vaishnav, said she had booked two flats in 2009. The flats cost Rs 12.5 crore, of which she has already paid over Rs 9 crore. However, her counsel Pravin Samdani said no agreement has been registered under Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act, yet. He said that the bank and the builder have allegedly colluded over the loan and questioned its use. “Moneys paid by buyers were used for construction,’’ he said and sought appointment of a court receiver to protect their rights.
 
 But appearing for the bank, counsel Sharan Jagtiani said only two flat sales were registered and other buyers had no valid rights as owners yet. He said the bank would install CCTVs, appoint proper security and may be permitted to take symbolic possession of the property. The court was inclined to such submission after checking with Ravikiran to make sure that all construction permissions were in place. Samdani said the building has the permissions.
 
 
