THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: Three Kerala billionaires--MA Yusuffali,   and Azad Moopen--perhaps experienced the biggest scare of their entrepreneurship life after the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) disqualified them from holding directorships in companies till 2021.

 They were disqualified after Norka-Roots, the state government-owned firm in which they serve as directors, failed to file annual returns and balance sheets for the past three years. However, it is possible that they could continue to be directors of Norka-Roots and boards of their private firms because of the legal protection to government owned-firms.
 
 “According to Section 164(3) of the Companies Act 2013, a director gets disqualified if his company fails to file the statutory documents for three consecutive years. However, NorkaRoots being a government-owned company--in which the state government holds 53.1%shares--is exempted from this norm. Hence, directors of this firm will not be disqualified and Norka-Roots should take it up with MCA,“ said former regional director of MCA SM Ameerul Millath. MCA had sent notices to 5,479 companies in Kerala in March to file the documents within 30 days and then struck down the registrations of over 4,000 companies from July . MCA also published three lists of directors, who were disqualified for a period of five years. Prime Minister   had termed this nation wide act as part of the fight against black money . On the other hand, senior Congress leaders in the state ­   , Ramesh Chennithala, V M Sudheeran and M M Hassan ­ were disqualified till October, 2021 by MCA as Congress mouthpiece Veekshanam failed to comply with statutory filings.
 
 However, the KPCC president said the decision will not affect the publication of Veekshanam. “It is only a technical lapse that has been rectified. We had received a notice a month ago since there was a delay in submitting our accounts. We had given a reply and paid the penalty . Now the ministry has to give exemption. This won't affect the publishing of Veekshanam,“ said Hassan. P T Thomas, M I Shanavas, Benny Behanan and PP Thankachan also feature in the list.
 
 Surprised after seeing the name of Norka-Roots directors in the list, state government officials have written to ministry of corporate affairs to verify documents again. They made it clear that there was no delay in submitting the accounts to registrar of companies.
 
 
