MUMBAI: The Bombay   on Friday slammed the state for “complete failure to implement laws” in place for the proper governance of homes meant for normal and mentally deficient children across the state.

 The high court bench of Justices   and Amjad Sayed held that the government   of Rs 990 per child was arbitrary and inadequate and enhanced it to Rs 2,000 per head per month for food, clothes and other needs at homes meant for   children. The court ordered the state government to establish State Child Protection Society and District Protection Units in nine months, among other directions.
 
 The high court was hearing a PIL it had suo motu filed in 2010 based on a newspaper article to address the “inhuman condition of a children’s home, Satkarm Balgriha at Shahpur in Thane”. Its inhabitants, mostly mentally challenged children, lived in dire conditions that led to “five deaths due to starvation and malnutrition”.
 
 The high court appointed Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) professor   as amicus curiae (friend of court to assist it). They had formed a committee which included psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty and social workers Anjali Gokarn, Chitrakala Acharya and Savita Shankaran.
 
 The high court with the help of the committee delved into the issue of poor governance in these homes. It held that that the state was constitutionally obliged to provide free and compulsory education to all children between the ages of 6 and 14 and it must do so for children in the homes for mentally challenged children.
 
 There are 27 such homes for mentally challenged children run by voluntary organisations on government grants. These homes can accommodate 1,685 children and had 1,094 inmates in March 2011. 
 
 In 2015, the high court directed the state to ensure a health insurance for mentally challenged children. In 2011, it had framed guidelines for cases of sexual abuse against mentally challenged children, which it said must be implemented.
 
 For regular orphanages, the state must increase the grant from Rs 900 to Rs 1,500 per child, said the  .
 
 
