PUNE: In a freak accident, a six-month-old baby girl was killed on the spot after she was crushed under the wheels of a reversing three-wheeler mini truck at a construction site in Manjri, near Hadapsar, around 3.30pm on Friday. 

 The child's parents, who hail from Karnataka and stay in   in Mundhwa, work as labourers at the site.   and his wife Laxmi reached the site around 10am as usual and started their work after keeping their baby, Rekha, in the shade of the vehicle which was parked nearby.
 
 The Hadapsar police said the driver, Lala Rajput, without realising the baby was kept at the rear side of his vehicle, reversed it and ran over it. When other labourers at the construction site alerted Rajput, it was too late and sensing trouble, he fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. The vehicle was being used to ply construction material. 
 
  The baby was rushed to Sassoon hospital by the workers, but was declared dead on arrival. Doctors certified the cause of death due to multiple injuries. 
 
  Laxman said he and his wife were busy at work when they heard a woman raising an alarm that their baby had met with an accident. When we rushed to the spot, we saw our child lying in a critical condition. "Rajput was not careful while reversing his vehicle. Had he taken precaution, my child would have been alive today," he added. 
 
  "We had kept the baby in the shade thinking that she was safe there, but we never anticipated that she would die in such a manner," Laxman said. We have lodged a complaint against Rajput with the police, he added. 
 
 However, the Hadapsar police came to know about the accident three-and-a-half hours after it took place when they received a phone call from the Sassoon general hospital.
 
 Police officials said the child's parents were in a state of shock and, initially, refused to lodge a complaint against the driver, who is absconding. They were convinced by the officials after which the complaint was lodged. 
 
 Officials said they were in the process of recording statements of the people who were present when the accident took place. Rajput has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act.
 
