DIGHI (PURULIA): More than 350km from Kolkata, the road that leads to this   is anything but smooth - the drive is positively bone-rattling. The residents are mostly tribals: Santhals, Munda and Bhumij, and OBC members like kurmis -people you'd least expect to be 'smart'. Yet, Dighi, tucked away in one of Bengal's remotest corners and once known to be a Maoist stronghold, is today the state's first tribal hamlet to get 100% broadband link under the Centre's ambitious National Optical Fibre Network (NOFN). 

 Today, the mostly unlettered villagers here discuss Wi-Fi as naturally as they talk of 100 days' work.
 
 Last year, Khedbrahma in Gujarat created history when it became the first tribal taluka to successfully connect all its 32 gram panchayats to India's information highway . 'Backward' Purulia isn't far away. The Herculean task of laying optical fibres through the rocky soil of the LeftWing-Extremist (LWE) district commenced two years ago under NOFN, the largest rural connectivity project of its kind in the world.
 
 Some 80km west of district headquarters Purulia, a three-hour, bumpy drive along steep gradients and numerous hairpin bends takes one to Dighi village on the Bengal-Jharkhand border. Miles away from media glare, this is where political differences have been buried under the rocky soil with the Modi and Mamata governments joining hands to sow the seeds of  . The centre-state agenda at Dighi includes Wi-Fi zones, seamless  , telemedicine links to medical colleges and eventually cashless markets. “The people of our gram panchayat are looking forward to the new economic opportunities that have opened up,“ said panchayat pradhan Kamdeb Mahato (48), who uses a smartphone.
 
 A brand new gram panchayat office with laptops is the first sign of change at Dighi. A solar panel has been installed for uninterrupted service. Next door is a   branch, which will soon start using National Optical Fibre Network (NOFN) for an ATM service. Fringed by forests, this remote hamlet will serve as a model for 40 other “smart villages“ in the state.
 
 “Making a city digital is easy, but to create a digital village in a tribal area, which is also a Red zone, is challenging. We made it, thanks to a proactive district administration,“ said Rabindra Nath Jha, chief-general manager of BSNL's Bengal circle.
 
 The plans are grand. Elaborate e-panchayat services will provide information, digitized ration cards, birth and death certificates, mobile banking services and debit cards for account hol ders. “These days, every government work is online. Central funds are a common pool, and money will come only if you've internet access. And speed is the most important feature of NOFN,“ said Purulia DM Tanmay Chakrabarty.
 
 The youths is upbeat. Jalad har Mahato (35), who has trained in computers, is sure the broadband project will translate into an improved quality of life. “Internet connectivity will promote cashless transactions through ePoS system and banking correspondents,“ he said.
 
 But the sceptics remain.“What use will the ATM cards be when there's no money in the bank? Will 'Digital India' bring money?“ asked Subodh Chandra Tudu, a farmer on the wrong side of 50.
 
