NOIDA: A day after three labourers died while cleaning a 15-feet deep sewage near BDS Market in Sector 110, officer on special duty at  , Rajesh Singh, visited the spot and started an investigation into the lapses leading to the deaths. He will submit the   report to Alok Tandon, chairman and CEO, Noida Authority, within a week.

  
  According to officials, the preliminary inquiry has found that there was a sewer suction machine at the spot in Sector 110 on Thursday, but it couldn’t clear the clogged sewer. “We have four machines in every division besides all the safety equipment required to enter sewers. Another machine was then requisitioned from division III of Jal department, which was to be used for clearing the sewer on Friday,” said  , additional CEO, Noida Authority.” 
 
 “Junior engineer  , who was at the spot, made all the arrangements for the next day and then left. Once he left, the three labourers on their own tried one more time to clear the blockage in the sewer by using a bamboo. That is when one of them slipped and when the two others tried to save him, the accident occurred,” he said. “However, there will be more clarity once we get the probe report,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the Authority on Friday re-circulated a directive issued by senior project engineer, Jal (Outer) on August 24, strictly warning against allowing any sanitation worker to go into any sewer manually. “The circular had directed all junior engineers (JE), assistant project engineers (APE) and project engineers (PE) to ensure that no labourer or employee enters a sewer. If it was necessary to do so in an emergency, then it should be done in the presence of a project engineer and with the requisite and mandatory safety equipment that we have including gas masks, oxygen cylinders, protective gear and after testing the gas emanating from the sewer,” he said. “Today we re-issued the circular,” he added.
 
 According to the additional CEO, they have also received notices from the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, National Commission for Safai Karamcharis and from the National Commission for Human Rights asking for an action-taken report in the incident. “They have asked for a detailed report on the deaths and whether we have filed an FIR in the matter. While a report has been sent to the commission for SCs, the reports for the other two commissions will be sent later,” he said.
 
 
