NEW DELHI: As the Aam Aadmi Party government completed two years on Tuesday, deputy chief minister Manish   said that its performance had been unparalleled even though this had come in the face of “historic harassment” by the centre. Then spelling out the government’s agenda for the next three years, Sisodia identified education as the sector where major reforms can be expected.

 “The Aam Aadmi Party won in Delhi with a historic mandate which came with its own set of historic expectations. We also dealt with historic  ,” said Sisodia, summing up for the government its tumultuous two years at the helm in Delhi. 
 
 Alongside Sisodia’s assessment, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too addressed a letter to Delhi’s people. Kejriwal, who has spent little time in Delhi since the beginning of this year and is currently in Bengaluru for medical treatment, said in his letter, “Given the unique nature of existing laws and the Constitutional scheme of things, governance in Delhi has its own set of challenges, but on this occasion I am resisting the temptation of offering any excuse for hurdles being created by the powers that be in the way of smooth governance in Delhi. I am hopeful that the elected government of Delhi will be allowed to continue its pro-people and progressive agenda for the betterment of the national capital.”
 
 Unlike Kejriwal, Sisodia was more direct. He said that while his government could be accused of “procedural lapses”, it could not be faulted for financial irregularities. Those who chose to bend for money, he said, were conspicuous by their absence at Tuesday’s function, the reference being obviously to former environment minister Asim Ahmed Khan, who was sacked for corruption.
 
 Sisodia also sarcastically said that police had arrested AAP MLAs on specious charges, and said it should be an embarrassment to the cops that the courts, in 13 of such cases, had made strong remarks against the law enforcers. In fact, labour minister Gopal Rai designated Kejriwal as the mythical Eklvaya for having delivered the goods despite so many hurdles being deliberately put in his path.
 
 The government, which has redefined infrastructure development as the construction of schools and hospitals, counted both sectors among its major achievements in the past two years. As education minister, Sisodia has already implemented several changes in the department and said that it was ‘out of the box’ thinking that defined the functioning of the present government. “We have come to change the way of governance and the agenda of governments. When making a budget for our homes, health and education are our first priorities but that is not the case with a government. This was a huge disconnect which we have managed to bridge,” Sisodia claimed.
 
 Both Sisodia and Rai also made it a point to praise the bureaucracy for helping to deliver on the promises made by the government. This is significant in light of the acrimonious relationship that the AAP government has had with certain bureaucrats in the past two years.
 
 Talking of key promises, including public Wi-Fi, CCTV cameras across Delhi, mohalla sabhas and subsidised canteens, that remain unfulfilled, the deputy CM said these were to be delivered in five years and not two. “Work is in progress on this front. We have zeroed in on few models,” he said.
 
 
