CHANDIGARH: The police on Wednesday claimed to have solved 21 snatchings and three vehicle thefts in last eight months with the arrest of three inter-state gang members who used to pay obeisance to their deity in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh, before striking and donated 1 10th of their booty in the temple.

 Police caught   alias Bellu alias Punjabi, 32, and Rajesh Kumar, 23, both residents of Shamli, at a naka laid on the sectors 11 and 15 dividing road near the overbridge. A stolen motorcycle from Karnal was recovered from them.
 
 Police claimed to have recovered 21   chains and two stolen two-wheelers.Most of the thefts took place in southern sectors, including sectors 11, 34, 36, 39 and Maloya. Police said the accused operated in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and New Delhi too. A local court sent them in three-day police remand. Following their interrogation, their accomplice  , 25, a resident of Shamli, was arrested on March 10.
 
 MODUS OPERANDI
 
 The three accused used to switch off their mobile phones before striking. After committing thefts, they used to return to their village and lie low for a week. In areas around Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, they preferred to use boats to cross the Yamuna.
 
 40 CASES
 
 All three accused belong to “Bawaria“ gang of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh. They have criminal record in Haryana and Delhi. Accused Ashok Kumar was involved in 40 cases in Delhi, 12 in Gurgaon and declared a proclaimed offender in some cases. The accused had associates in Chennai and Bengaluru too. Deputy superintendent of police (crime) Pawan Kumar said the accused used to switch off their mobile phones and crossed the Yamuna in boats in areas around Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to avoid main roads.
 
 In Tricity, all three accused used to live in rented accommodations in different locations. After committing thefts, they used to return to their villages and strike after lying low for a week. They mostly targeted women wearing gold chains. They disposed of the chains to a local jeweller, Chattar Singh, who is presently in Ambala jail, police said.
 
