Nagpur: Though the state is pitching Maharashtra State Open School (MSOS) as its biggest project in recent years, some academicians say it will do more harm if implemented in its current format. Some principals feel open schooling system will be detrimental to the overall growth of a child and that it’s crucial for everyone to go through a traditional system. Madhusudhan Mude, general secretary of Headmasters Association (Nagpur), said, “It’s okay for adults to enrol and complete their schooling, but to allow even regular kids to appear for exams here is not right. Social skills of students will take a big hit and in the long run it will be very harmful for students.”  On Friday, Mude met with other principals at Amravati to discuss the issue, among other topics, and see what can be done to create a consensus over it. Mude said, “Everyone agreed that MSOS guidelines need to be modified so that children are not denied a traditional teaching experience. We have to now think over what needs to be done so that government makes the necessary changes.” Jalna-based academician Rajendra Dayma said the government was merely trying to ‘improve its statistics’. Dayma, founding member of Independent English Schools Association, said, “Once open school comes into existence, every child will be shown as enrolled, so the dropout ratio pretty much comes to zero. Also, this sleight of hand can turn thousands upon thousands of students literate, on paper at least. All said and done, the traditional classroom teaching is the correct methodology.” Adolscent counsellors partially agree saying certain social skills are best taught in the classroom environment. Dr Rajiv Mohta, who is also a practicing paediatrician, said, “Social skills, interpersonal skills and life skills are best learnt in classrooms by students at least till the age of 13. After that if they shift to open school system it will not have a major effect.”  The other concern which principals had was about the impact MSOS will have on jobs. Mude said, “The system will make teachers redundant and lead to loss of thousands of jobs. Is that what we want in a state where still lot needs to be done for improving the quality of education?”  Mude said that the job losses will be the most in junior colleges which are already reeling from the onslaught of mass absenteeism. “There are reports in media that students are flocking to coaching classes at the cost of regular classes. Now, if they get an option to enrol in an open school then they will spend entire day at the coaching centre itself, leaving colleges without admissions and ultimately forcing their closure.”