BENGALURU: Environmental activists and retired foresters have alleged that the forest department’s ban on growing   is the handiwork of land-grabbers eyeing forest tracts within 100km of Bengaluru.

 S Parameshwarappa, former principal chief conservator of forests, said plantations of eucalyptus and other exotics like acacia auriculiformis and casuarina, which grow faster, act as a good buffer in forest fringes and help curtail encroachments. “It’s very unscientific to say that the drought we are experiencing is due to eucalyptus. The argument that eucalyptus guzzles underground water is also fallacious and experiments done in this regard by the forest department at Hoskote has proved the same. Secondly, eucalyptus is no more exotic for Karnataka or India as it was introduced by Tipu Sultan at Nandi Hills centuries ago. I see a lobby against   in the name of   protection,” he said.
 
 Said N S Kumar, a green activist: “Without a good buffer of plantations on their fringes, natural forests will be more vulnerable to plundering and wildlife conflicts would only increase.”
 
 However, the forest department seems to be in no mood to listen. “The notification on eucalyptus and acacia ban has been issued following the department’s report based on expert research. Even the cabinet collectively resolved to impose the ban and the same has been deliberated in the state legislature. The move is also a bid to discourage monoculture forests,” said a senior forest department official.
 
 “We will ensure that a good buffer is maintained around forests through other types of plantations which are more sustainable. We will also give subsidy to farmers to plant such saplings on private land,” the officer further said. 
 
 
 
 
 Noted environmentalist A N Yellappa Reddy has, however, hailed the forest department for banning eucalyptus. “The introduction of eucalyptus was in itself an ecological blunder in India. It has destroyed many natural ecosystems in Karnataka as well as other parts of the country. It not only consumes lot of water but also leads to top soil erosion and kills grass in the vicinity. Soil erosion also leads to accumulation of silt in nearby waterbodies,” he added.
 
 Reddy said the Food and Agriculture Organization had also warned India not to proceed with eucalyptus plantations, but some officials in the forest department had suppressed some facts for long. “Finally, the government has taken a good decision,” he said. 
 
