AURANGABAD: A national integration rally — Riot Free Maharashtra Campaign against Communal Forces — organised on Republic Day was led by  , mother of JNU’s missing student  .

 The Great   Brigade and citizens of Basmat had organised this rally to promote communal harmony and condemn attacks like that on engineer Mohsin Shaikh in Pune by anti-national elements.
 
 The Marathas, other backward classes and Dalit organisations also extended support to the event and their representatives were also among the participants. The organisers claimed participation of over one lakh people including men, women and youth from Nanded, Parbhani and Hingoli districts.
 
 On the occasion, social activists and political party leaders criticized the alleged miss-handling of Najeeb’s case on the part of JNU administration and Delhi police. Najeeb went missing from his hostel room on October 15, 2016 and since then his mother’s desperate pleas are falling on deaf ears.
 
 Retired justice B G Kolse Patil, former trade union leader and social activist Mujtaba Farooque and leaders of different religious communities were among prominent persons who attended the rally that started from   and concluded in a public meeting at   ground.
 
 Addressing the rally, Fatima alleged that her son had been attacked by a mob of around 150 students in front of hostel warden and JNU security personnel. “Najeeb is innocent and has never been involved in any violence in the past,” she said.
 
 “Najeeb was admitted to a hospital and had called me to inform that he was well. However, he was seriously injured and when I reached the hostel Najeeb was not there. He has been missing since then,” said Fatima.
 
 Fatima alleged that her son is not missing but there is a conspiracy by his attackers to hide him. “The irony is that those who attacked him are moving freely and police is interrogating and raiding our closed relatives,” she said.
 
 Fatima also motivated the participants to send their children to JNU and other top prestigious institutions for higher studies.
 
