GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old woman doctor attempted suicide by jumping in front of a running train, moments after it entered the platform at Guru Dronacharya   station on Monday morning. The train, which had already slowed down and was about to stop, hit the woman, throwing her off the tracks.

 Nishat, a healthcare professional who works with an insurance firm located on Mathura road in Delhi, was admitted to a nearby private hospital, where doctors termed her condition to be serious. Sources said Nishat had sustained fractures in her right hand and leg.
 
 The incident, which took place on the Delhi Metro’s Yellow line, disrupted services for around 10 minutes.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed that Nishat, an MBBS who also did an MBA, was standing on the platform No. 2 apparently to board a train towards Jahangirpuri around 7.45am. As the train was entering the platform, she jumped on the tracks. But, miraculously, she did not come under the wheels. 
 
 The incident was captured in the   cameras installed at the station.   footage, showing the woman jumping in front of a train, was widely shared on social media later in the day.
 
 Inspector Devi Charan, SHO, Metro police station, which probes all Metro-related incidents, the reason behind the woman’s suicide attempt was not clear yet. Originally from Patna, she lives with her parents, elder brother and sister-in-law in DLF Phase 3. “The woman was taken to a nearby private hospital, where she is currently undergoing treatment. She is still unconscious, so we have not been able to record her statement as yet,” said Charan.
 
 The police said the woman’s family members were apparently also clueless as to why she took the extreme step. “We spoke to her kin but have found no concrete reason behind the suicide attempt. However, his brother told us that she was apparently stressed up as she had to travel to and fro Delhi daily for her work,” he added.
 
 According to Charan, no case has been filed in this regard either as no eyewitness has come forward to give a statement on the same. “Most of those, who were present on the platform at the time of the incident, were passengers. And they all left once they got their trains. So, no one came forward to tell police what exactly happened and how. Besides, the official CCTV footage will take three days to come from  ,” said the SHO.
 
 The DMRC, in its report, confirmed the incident, and said its officials were cooperating with the police in the investigation. Regarding disruption in services, they claimed there was a lag of around 10 minutes, after which the train services were resumed.
 
 
