PATNA: Chief minister   on Thursday suspended JD (U) MLA Mewalal Choudhary from the party for alleged irregularities in the appointment of 162 assistant professors/scientists in   (BAU) at Sabour in Bhagalpur district during his tenure as its vice-chancellor in 2012.

 Sabour police had on Tuesday lodged an FIR against Choudhary, who represents Tarapur constituency, on a complaint submitted to the police by the BAU registrar after a probe team headed by Justice (retd)   Mahfooz Alam found the allegations true. Some of the applicants alleged that merit had been ignored and even NET qualified candidates were overlooked in the appointment, even as high marks were given to the selected few in the interview.
 
 Choudhary was the founder VC of BAU and served in the same capacity till 2015 before contesting the assembly election from Tarapur in Munger district on a JD (U) ticket.
 
 Choudhary, however, refuted the allegations and said he would challenge the probe report against him in court. He said the decision to suspend him from the party was unilateral and he had all the evidences to prove the probe report wrong.
 
 “The allegations against me are baseless. I will challenge the report in court after seeking legal opinion. It was the selection committee which awarded the marks to the candidates. The applicants’ allegation that one Mintu Mandal was selected without qualifying NET is also not true. The probe committee also gave me clean chit on 19 out of the 20 points on which the inquiry was conducted,” said Choudhary just after his suspension from JD (U) was made public by party spokesperson Sanjay Singh.
 
 Choudhary also blamed the university administration for concealing facts before the probe committee. “I have full faith in judiciary,” he said when asked if he would surrender in the case lodged under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).
 
 Though JD(U) spokesman Singh said the Nitish government maintains zero tolerance for corruption and Choudhary was suspended as charges against him were serious in nature, the timing is being seen as the preemptive move by the state government to blunt the opposition BJP’s plan to stall the proceedings in the House as Budget session began on Thursday.
 
