 The state cabinet will once again be expanded, most probably within a fortnight, to give proper representation to all ‘castes and class’. The cabinet will also try to accommodate some dissidents so that there is no voice of dissent.
 
  At present, there are 29 people in the cabinet, including the chief minister. Since the Bihar assembly has the strength of 243 MLAs, it permits a cabinet of up to 37 ministers and, therefore, eight more people can be accommodated.
  
  Sources in the ruling alliance said there will be eight new ministers in the next expansion — five from JD(U) and three from NDA (one each from BJP, RLSP and HAM-S). The RLSP and HAM-S could not get representation in the Nitish ministry on Saturday.
  
  “With an eye on the next Lok Sabha election, the BJP central leadership will not like to lose any ally and allow Lalu Prasad’s RJD to make a dent in the vote bank on caste lines,” said a source. RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha is likely to keep the Kurmi vote bank intact, as the CM is also from the same community. HAM-S led by Jitan Ram Manjhi will consolidate the dalit and mahadalit vote bank along with Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP.
  
  Sources in BJP and JD(U) confirmed that Lalu was trying to allure RLSP and HAM-S and create fissures in the new government.
  
  The government will also accommodate one member from the Kayastha community, considered to be traditional voters of the BJP in Bihar, as it has been left out and the matter was even raised on Sunday by BJP’s Rajya Sabha member R K Sinha.
  
  “We are aggrieved that Kayastha community has been ignored. We have able leaders and yet are ignored, which is not acceptable,” said Sinha.
  
  JD(U) secretary general K C Tyagi, who is also a confidant of Bihar CM, confirmed that another round of cabinet expansion is likely in the next few days to ensure proper representation to all sections of the society. “Some berths are still vacant and the next round of expansion will have representations from the sections left this time,” said Tyagi.
