PUNE: Archana, a working woman from the Katraj area, is confused. She is being told by the BJP workers and supporters that this time she has to just press button against the lotus symbol without even  .

 “Vote for lotus is vote for Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” is the punchline of BJP workers canvassing for the party.
 
 Other party leaders allege that the BJP government was keen on the four-member ward system because they felt people would vote for the BJP and not for candidates as they did during the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The party swept the Assembly elections and won all the eight seats in the city and its Lok Sabha candidate Anil Shirole registered a thumping victory, thanks to the ‘Modi wave’.
 
 According to the BJP’s strategists, the party has succeeded to break small, but strong vote bank of others by clubbing big chunk of population into a big ward. The BJP is confident that candidates contesting on its lotus symbol would get collective votes.
 
 The panel system for civic elections comes with a challenge for citizens to identify worthy candidates. With four-member panel, voters tend to vote for a party instead of candidates. Hence, all parties might put up panels with criminal background candidates and seek votes in the name of party.
 
 “The panel system has created confusion about voting and citizens must understand that in one panel they can vote and elect four good candidates from different parties,” said a civic official on election duty.
 
 Big parties like the BJP, Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena will benefit because they have a chunk of vote banks spread across the city.
 
 “Small parties have small vote bank pockets in some parts of the city and our candidates get elected from there. But these pockets will be no more relevant because they will be a part of a big ward,” said Republican Party of India (RPI) corporator Siddharth Dhende.
 
 Small parties like the Republican Party of India and All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen will struggle to win in the new format.
 
 “The BJP-led state government had insisted on four-member wards only because they wanted to ride on the Modi wave and get criminal elements elected. In the past few days, the BJP has opened its doors for dreaded criminals. They will be contesting on lotus symbol. But Pune people are intelligent enough to understand this plot,” said city Congress leader Ramesh Bagwe.
 
 The NCP’s city unit chief, Vandana Chavan, echoed Bagwe’s sentiments and insisted that the BJP would not get benefit of panel system because voters were aware of the party’s intensions.
 
 According to the Shiv Sena leaders, the BJP MLAs got elected in the city “by chance” and people have realized their “mistake”. Shiv Sena’s city chief Vinayak Nimhan said people had a good option in the Shiv Sena.
 
 BJP city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale said, “The BJP does not need to play any gimmicks to win elections. The work done by the state and the central governments is enough for it to win polls. The BJP MLAs and MP in the city have performed in the past couple of years and we shall ask for vote showing our performance.”
 
 Activist Vivek Velankar said, “People will have to make a choice without flowing into any wave. These are civic elections and citizens must vote for good candidates instead of looking for a party. Local corporators solve local problems and they must be held accountable.”
 
