NOIDA:  , located on the edge of the   village road in Sector 31, is, to the rest of the village, a painful reminder of the   that surfaced in 2006 and plunged the name, Nithari, into infamy.

 Today, the weather-beaten, deserted bungalow is hidden behind a thick blanket of dense undergrowth, climbers and trees. A rusted lock hangs from the iron gates, which don’t close evenly. Most conspicuous in this sordid portrait are three large water tanks perched on the roof of first-floor room in the house, which was said to be the quarters of Surinder Koli, Moninder Singh Pandher’s domestic help who has been sentenced to death in seven of eight cases tried so far. It’s in this house where the rape-murders of 2005 and ’06 took place. A total of 19 girls and women were the victims. 
 
 “Surinder used to peep from the grille up there. He had a habit of observing the passing traffic on the road,” said Raju, a shopkeeper who has lived in the locality for 16 years. 
 
 The bungalow to the left of D-5 is home to lawyer RK Singh, who had known Pandher and Koli, though contact was limited.
 
 “They had been living here for almost one and a half years when my house was being constructed. Koli used to open the gate of my house as well when my car would arrive. I had never been inside their house. Pandher was usually away and Koli used to live here alone,” Singh told TOI on Monday.
 
 Singh, however, said he faced a constant problem of mosquitoes, flies and lizards infesting his home from D-5 and had to call pest control every three months. The deserted D5, said neighbours, had turned into a refuge for drug peddlers and thieves for some time.
 
  “There was a massive fire on the ground floor of the house around two years ago but the cause behind it remains unknown,” said Ankur Teotia, a property dealer. “We also caught hold of two drug addicts from the house.”
 
 The plot opposite Pandher’s house was empty and used to serve as a vegetable vending point all day. This road is among the busiest. How would anyone have suspected what was going on inside D5? “ said a resident who did not wish to be named.
 
 D5 is one of the only six houses in block D of the sector and Pandher’s residence was famous for high-profile visits. Doctors, police officials and other “powerful people” stopped over at his residence, say neighbours.
 
