PUNE: The minister of state for water resources,  , on Thursday said the proposal to reserve the drinking water quota for Pune till August 31 would be re-examined in a meeting next week. 

 Pune district collector   told TOI that a proposal was submitted last year to reserve drinking water for Pune till August-end this year instead of making provisions only till July 31. “We had submitted the proposal so that necessary precautions were taken in the summer months by all the sectors so that drinking water is available till August,” said the collector.
 
 Minister Shivtare said, “We do not want a Latur-like situation of train carrying water again this year. We have to plan accordingly. All policies from the collectors on water allocation would be reviewed and necessary water allocation would be made according to the plan. We have issued strict instructions to the collectors — the appropriate authority to draw out a complete plan for their districts. The requirement for the district, city, councils, agriculture and industry should be shared ahead of summer.”
 
 He said the issue would be taken up in the policy review meeting in the coming week. With the Met department hinting at an impact of El Nino towards late September, the district authorities do not want to take any chance.
 
 The district administration officials involved in the planning said that the monsoon started late last year and arrangements were made to lift water from the dead stock of   dam. “If we plan till August, the authorities will take necessary precautions and water will be used according to them,” the official said.
 
 The minister directed all district collectors to conduct a water audit with restrictions laid for domestic, agriculture and industry use. Water availability in dams/rivers and crop pattern in drought-prone districts across the state would be mapped to make course corrections in water supply.
 
 Last year, there was controversy over water being released for rural parts. It had triggered a verbal spat between district guardian minister Girish Bapat and outgoing Pune mayor Prashant Jagtap.
 
 Bapat had allowed water to be released for Daund while the city was facing a threat of additional water cut when it was already receiving alternate day water supply. 
 
 The issue of plugging leakages in the canals supplying water to the city was discussed in another meeting last year. The district irrigation department officials would have to provide a detailed report on the work ahead of the summer season, an official said.
 
