PANCHKULA: Panchkula police commissioner A S Chawla on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of  , who is the most wanted accused in the cases of sedition and violence by Dera Sacha Sauda followers, being in Nepal.

 Chawla said police parties were quite close to arresting dera spokesperson Dr Aditya Insan and Honeypreet. He also said two more lists of dera followers, who had actively participated in the violence at the Hafed light point of Panchkula on August 25, were being prepared.
 
 Chawla also informed about adding Honeypreet’s name to the sedition case registered at Panchkula’s Sector 5 police station. He said Honeypreet’s name cropped up following the interrogation of two other accused arrested in the case.
 
 Among those arrested in the sedition case included Surender Insan, Chamkaur Singh,  , Govind Singh and Dilawar Insan. They were present at the Hafed light point, the epicentre of violence on August 25.
 
 Meanwhile, the Panchkula chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Tuesday remanded Daan Singh, the legal adviser of dera, and Chamkaur Singh, the Panchkula district head of dera’s committee, to judicial custody.
 
 Officials said the special investigation team (SIT), probing the cases, had found Rs 25lakh from Chamkaur and some money from other accused as well. Chamkaur had got the money from the dera.
 
 Govt allowed Honeypreet to flee: MLA Dalal
 
 Congress MLA and senior leader   on Tuesday accused the Haryana government of taking away the wealth of Dera Sacha Sauda and blamed it for the death of 42 dera premis (followers) during police firing following the violence at Panchkula on August 25. 
 
 He said Haryana government had destroyed the valuables of dera in the name of search operations. He flayed the   government for shielding Honeypreet Insan.
 
  “First they allowed her to accompany dera head Gurmeet. 
 
 The government also arranged a chopper to take Gurmeet to the jail in Rohtak after his conviction. Honeypreet was allowed to move free. Now they are talking about launching a manhunt for her,” he said.
 
