BHUBANESWAR: The   on Monday began the process of demolishing   around hallowed  , periphery of which was grabbed by several influential persons since decades. 

 On the first day, one two-storey building and a single-storey commercial establishment were partly pulled down. The demolition drive will resume on Tuesday. 
 
 “We earlier served notices to the owners of the two houses. The drive will continue till all encroachments are removed. The freed land will be used for  , including establishment of parking lot and shelter for visitors,” Puri district collector Aravind Agrawal told media persons. Sources said the two houses were illegally built on one decimal land out of 1-acre Swargadwar area. 
 
 While Swargadwar is spread over one acre facing the sea, nearly 15 acre around it has been encroached by influential persons. Official sources said the 16 acre originally belonged to Jagannath temple while Puri Shankaracharya was the caretaker of the property. Subsequently, influential people grabbed the land and constructed some hotels and shops around Swargadwar. 
 
 “The administration’s move is arbitrary. We constructed the house nearly 16 years ago. We have valid documents,” said Kasinath Mohanty, whose house, where he was running a travel agency was razed to ground. 
 
 In the wake of public outcry over Swargadwar land scam, the revenue divisional commissioner (central range) AB Ota said criminal cases will be registered against those, who grabbed the land. “During inquiry, we found evidence of fraud in land deals. Cases will be registered against them,” Ota recently said. 
 
 “As per law, the mutt property cannot be sold or purchased. We came to know that some mutt authorities in 1980s fraudulently sold the land,” said a revenue department officer. Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati in a press conference recently slammed the state government for neglecting temples and mutts in the state. “Hundreds of acres of our mutt’s lands were usurped by mafias. Hotels and houses have been constructed by demolishing memorials of previous Shankaracharyas,” said Manoj Rath, spokesperson of Shankaracharya’s Goverdhan mutt. 
 
 Regardless of the demolition drive, a section of locals and shopkeepers around Swargadwar demanded the government to relocate the crematorium to Puri outskirts. A few days ago, some locals took out a rally, demanding shifting of the crematorium in view of dense population around the buzzing tourist destination where cremation of corpses is an eyesore.
 
