LUCKNOW: All eyes looked for veteran BJP official Hriday Narain Dixit when protem Speaker   announced his election as the new Speaker of the UP assembly on Thursday.

 As per tradition, the ‘Speaker-elect’ should have been in another room -- or not present among the MLAs -- when his name was announced. But, a smiling Dixit sat in the front row with a group of MLAs in a break from convention. He was then taken jointly by the CM and the leader of opposition to his chair.
 
 Later, while addressing the members, Dixit revealed how, by remaining seated with MLAs, he broke from a  . The newly elected Speaker informed the House that parliamentary traditions of the country had developed on the pattern of British Parliament where the Speaker acted as a messenger of the House to the monarch.
 
 He said, nearly half-a-dozen Speakers were killed in British history for carrying unfavourable messages of the House to the king or queen. So, the House began concealing the identity of the Speaker. Later, this became a tradition. At the time of their appointment or election, the Speaker-elect would hide himself and then the prime minister would search for him and produce him before Parliament.
 
 “This has been the practice in UP assembly: that the Speaker-elect would hide himself in the office of the legislature party or behind a chair, and once he is formally elected, he is brought out from the ‘hiding’ by the leader of the House.
 
 “But I thought this is the time we should break the British tradition. In an Independent country, why should a British legacy, which can be done away with, continue?” Dixit said, as members broke into laughter.
 
 Assembly principal secretary Pradip Dubey said, “This is a classic example of fighting against the British legacy in a quiet way.”
 
 In his address, Dixit said he expected the members would not throw paper balls towards the chair or during the address by the governor as he would give adequate time to them to raise their issues.
 
 “Throwing paper balls, a pen or mike towards the chair is a symbol of anger or protest. Anger can be expressed through the words and language, what is the need of throwing a paper ball?” he said.
 
