NASHIK: The Nashik city unit of   on Thursday staged an agitation against the alleged anti-farmer remarks by   (BJP) state president  . 

 The state BJP president on Wednesday at a party activists’ meeting in Jalna had allegedly abused farmers for questioning the government’s stand on tur dal procurement. He said that farmers continued to complain despite the state government doling out sops to help tur growers, hit by dip in prices due to increased output. 
 
 “The state government has so far procured the highest amount of tur in the history and it is going to purchase additional one lakh tonne, still some (referring to farmers) continue to complain,” Danve had said replying to a question by a BJP worker who had asked him how he should respond to the farmers on delayed tur procurement issue. 
 
 On Thursday, workers of the Shiv Sena, an ally of the BJP, attacked an effigy of the state BJP president with shoes during the   at Shalimar office at 11am and condemned Danve’s statement against the farmers. The   even blocked the busy road outside the party office during the agitation and demanded an unconditional apology from Danve.
 
 “This is the most atrocious remark and the BJP must now decide whether they want to retain such people as their leaders or not,” said Shiv Sena city unit chief Ajay Boraste, adding “The farmers are committing suicide as their labour is not being honoured, but the BJP leaders are not bothered about what happens to them. If the BJP leaders are unable to help the farmers, at least they should not abuse them. Why are they bent upon treating the farmers so badly.” 
 
 Danve on Thursday expressed regret over his remarks on ‘tur dal’ growers. Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Ashok Chavan had earlier in the day told reporters that his party would launch a statewide stir from tomorrow against Danve’s “derogatory” comments. 
 
 In a statement, Danve said, “I was trying to convince my party worker regarding the tur procurement issue. It was just a dialogue between me and the party worker. I did not use any cuss-word against the farmers. But, somehow, farmers are hurt and I express my regrets. No need to link the dialogue between me and my party worker with farmers,” he said. 
 
 He added, “I am a son of a farmer and I know the farmers’ plight. I have been taking the farmers’ side in my 35-year-long political career. I cannot use a cuss-word against the farmers.”
 
