KOLHAPUR: Robbers continue to give sleepless nights to citizens, with five cases of   reported in one day on Sunday.

 The suspects broke open four houses and a jewellery shop, all in  , and decamped with booty worth Rs 3 lakh on Sunday. Just two weeks ago, unidentified men had broken open two flats in different buildings in Rajarampuri area and decamped booty worth Rs 6.25 lakh.
 
 On Sunday, the suspects targeted Bondre Nagar area and Maheshwar colony located at Ring road area in Phulewadi. The culprits had committed the crime during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, police said.
 
 The incident came to light on Sunday morning when Sushant Powar, who owns a jewellery shop at Ring road area, saw the locks of the shutters of his shop broken. When he opened the shop, the   jewellery and silver ornaments worth Rs 2.40 lakh was missing from the shop. He immediately informed the Karveer police about the incident. 
 
 The jewellery shop was located at a basement of a building. On the first floor of the same building, the suspects broke open the locks of a door of the flat belonging to Nilesh Desai and fled with silver jewellery, a mobile phone and a wall clock worth Rs 26,000. The Desai family is out of station.
 
 The house of Sarika Sanjay Mankar located in Ganesh colony in Bondre Nagar was also broken into and the gold jewellery worth Rs 30,000 and cash Rs 1,500 stolen. The suspects also attacked a house near Mankar's house belonging to   and fled with Rs 2,000 in cash kept in a cupboard.
 
 The suspects also targeted an ice cream parlour and stoke Rs 500 in cash. They also targeted an optical shop in the vicinity but could not get anything from the shop.
 
 “We are gathering information about all the incidents reported in the area. We suspect that the crime must be done by same gang as all the crimes were committed in nearby areas. We have got information from sources that a gang of three persons covering their faces was roaming in that area on Saturday night,” said a police officer investigating the case.
 
