Two weeks after the brutal murder of Infosys employee Rasila Raju OP came to light, city police, IT professionals and members of the   Industries Association ( ) have been in talks over heightened security measures in the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park. But what is shocking is that in Phase III — 7 km from Phase I, where there are approximately 10 IT companies with over 20,000 employees — there is no  .

 Members of Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA) have pointed out that there is a need for a police chowky in the vicinity and proposals for the same have been put forth. After the murder of Rasila, there have been discussions about security measures with the companies in the IT Park and members of the HIA. In fact,  , Commissioner of Police had also visited the area and has taken feedback from employees on the need to increase security for employees, especially those working late at night. 
 The cops and HIA have initiated a Joint Security Task Force (JSTF) where three vehicles with cops and two bouncers patrol the IT Park area round the clock.
 
 
 Mayank Gupta, Head Security and Safety Committee, HIA highlighted the need for a police chowky in Phase III of the IT Park. “There are almost 20,000 employees working in this area. In case of an emergency, a chowky or a post will be helpful for the employees and companies. We have verbally conveyed this to the senior police officials in a recent meeting,” he said. Another member of HIA who did not wish to be named, added that the IT Park is a busy area and the traffic woes are getting worse every day. “If there is any unpleasant incident, it will take almost 45 minutes to get police help from Phase I where the Hinjewadi police station is situated,” he said. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Members of HIA feel that there is a need to increase security and this can only happen with the support of city police. “Since the IT Park is in an industrial zone with a large number of professionals working here, we have also suggested an additional deployment of police force,” a senior HIA employee added.
 
 
 The HIA is also keen to install CCTV cameras and put the IT Park under surveillance. “The police along with an independent agency had done a survey more than a year ago and had listed nine junctions where over 40 cameras needed to be installed. This is yet to be implemented,” said Anil  , President HIA.
 
 Sunil Ramanand, Joint Commissioner (Law and Order), Pune confirmed that HIA has proposed for a police chowky in Phase III of the Hinjewadi IT Park. “We are positive about the suggestions from HIA and we will have a meeting with them on Monday where we will discuss these issues in details. Presently our staff is patrolling the area. A police post should not be a problem.”
 
 
