THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While speaking to reporters last week about the achievements of his first year in office, chief minister   spoke on how his government could change the mind-set of people with regard to big  . 

 The national highway development programme, which had almost been stalled during the regime of previous government, is now back on track, he said. Fast-tracking the Gail pipeline project and establishment of electrical line to bring power from Kudankulam plant to Kerala too are examples of the commitment shown by his government to implement infrastructure projects that had missed several deadlines, Vijayan pointed out.
 
 Sources in the   said the Pinarayi government which had its focus on the guiding principles laid out by the LDF manifesto during the first year in office will now shift gear and concentrate on infrastructure projects. Developing two national highways that connect the state from north to south will be top priority.
 
 The CM and works minister   will put in additional efforts to remove all hurdles on the way to realise the projects, said sources. “We are leaving no stones unturned in our efforts to complete our infrastructural projects,“ said Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 Commissioning of   project, which may happen any time and inauguration of Kannur airport, expected to happen in another three to four months, will set the stage for an infrastructure revolution in the state.
 
 “The government, if it really wants to make a mark, should immediately address the infrastructure deficit,“ said UDF leader and planning expert C P John. “ At least 50 major junctions in the state need overbridges to tackle traffic congestion. We want to see the vision of government in this area“, he said, cautioning that for this to happen the cabinet should start behaving like a council and not merely a bunch of ministers.
 
 Technocrat and former planning board member G Vijayaraghavan opined that the government should devote its energy to the total revamp of higher education sector. “Today's education is not providing the input required for tomorrow's jobs,“ he said. 
 
 Former DGP of Gujarat, R B Sreekumar, who lauded the government's social security initiatives, said the priority now should be to tackle mafias that still rule the state.“Sand mafia, quarry mafia and land mafia are all there untouched. If people need to feel the change, they all should be weeded out. Service delivery should be so effective that the poor and hapless could feel it in the same measure as by the high and mighty,“ he said.
 
 CPI state secretary  , who was a staunch critic of the government within the LDF, said he wished the government to focus on controlling price rise and extending the reach of welfare schemes launched by the government.
 
