UDAIPUR: Prime Minister   urged the   to channelize their network of centers and volunteers to aid government's efforts in the areas of renewable energy, nutrition and health, and for ushering in a cashless economy. Modi addressed a large gathering through video conference from Delhi on Sunday on the occasion of the inauguration of 80th anniversary celebrations of the Brahma Kumaris at their campus on  . 

 Over 6,000 prominent persons from India and abroad have gathered here for the four-day celebrations.
 
 "The Brahma Kumaris have more than 8,500 meditation centers all over the world which could be used to bring about major changes in the country by 2022, when India will be celebrating 75 years of Independence," Modi said.
 
 Modi appreciated the extensive use of solar power at the Brahma Kumaris, including a 1 MW solar thermal power plant set up by the institution, and its use of solar steam cooking systems to prepare meals for 30,000 persons, three times a day. He said India had set the target of producing 175 gigawatts of energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. In addition, 22 crore LED bulbs had been supplied by municipalities and other local bodies all over the country, resulting in savings of Rs 11,000 crore. He urged the institution to spread awareness about LED bulbs all over the country to help reduce country's dependence on fuel imports.
 
 Turning to health, the PM said women volunteers can aid the government's immunisation programme to ensure a healthy future for millions of children who otherwise fall victim to serious illnesses. This, he said, was a part of empowering women, and added that India had recently become one of the few countries in the world to grant 26 weeks of maternity leave, up from 12 weeks earlier.
 
 Earlier in the day, senior BJP leader L K Advani led a host of luminaries in paying tribute to the work of the Brahma Kumaris. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman   and Bollywood star Raveena Tandon were among other dignitaries who lauded the Brahma Kumaris for serving the society and setting an example of women's empowerment.
 
 Speaking during the reception session inside the vast Diamond Hall, Asia's largest pillar-free hall, Advani said Brahma Kumaris was the only institution of its kind in the world that had been founded and expanded by women. Pointing to Dadi Janki, the 101-year-old head of the Brahma Kumaris, he said her long and active life was no ordinary achievement, it was a divine gift received only by those who lead exemplary lives.
 
 Besides Dadi Janki, Dadi Hirdaya Mohini, the additional head, and Dadi Ratan Mohini, the joint head of the Brahma Kumaris, were present on the occasion. 
 
