If you are one of those film buffs who like watching Hollywood films dubbed in Hindi, chances are that you have already seen the Hindi version of Hollywood blockbuster ' '. While watching Emma Watson speak in Hindi takes a little getting used to, pay attention to the lyrics of the Hindi songs. They are penned by apala Puneri  . Penning lyrically apt songs are a forte of Prashant; case in point – ‘Mann Beqaid’ from ‘Anarkali of Aarah’, starring Swara Bhaskar. The chef-turned-lyricist talks about his journey so far, the joy of watching Alejandro González Iñárritu’s films, what got him into writings songs, and what he hates about current remix trend

 
  
 
 
 
  A trained chef, Prashant found comfort in penning four liners during college days. “I used to listen to Eric Clapton, Bon Jovi, Backstreet Boys et al. I was quite inspired by their soulful lyrics and hence I used to try writing my own four liners to help my friends.” One thing lead to another and Prashant found himself in Mumbai, penning songs for the likes of Abbas-Mastan (‘Race 2’), Omung Kumar (‘Mary Kom’),   (‘Ram-Leela’) and so on. 
 
  Of this ‘Party on my mind’ from ‘Race 2’ still runs high in party scene across the country. Since then there has been no looking back, Prashant gave us the magical lyrics of ‘Dil Ye Ziddi Hai’ and ‘Adhure’ in ‘Mary Kom’, ‘Malhari’ and ‘Gajanana’ in ‘Bajirao Mastani’. 
 
  Prashant tells us that he loves to get into the skin of the character to write the lyrics. “This superficial song-writing is not how I like to function,” he exclaims. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  While talking about his way penning songs, Prashant adds that he does not like the new trend of remixing the ’90s songs, which is quite prevalent nowadays. “It’s very sad that instead of creating new songs, people believe in remixing old ones,” he confesses, adding, “Who’s set to gain from this trend? Neither the listeners nor the song makers. Isn’t it our responsibility, as an industry, to give meaningful content?” 
 
  Prashant adds that as a lyricist he lives for a challenge. “For me, as a writer, song writing is like story telling. The Mukhda is the beginning, Antara has to be the past and the last paragraph is about the future. It’s can’t be bits and part with no connection with each other.” 
 
  He then cites the example of Mexican filmmaker  . “His films are masterpieces, ‘Amores Perros’, ‘Babel’, ‘Biutiful’… they tell a story like no other. You must watch Iñárritu’s films for sheer storytelling quality!” Prashant quips. 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Having spent 15 years in the industry, Prashant says that he has a lot more to do. “It has been surreal journey so far. My family has sacrificed a lot to see me achieve my dream. I struggled a lot initially, but now I feel like I belong here,” he confesses. 
 
  Prashant says that he follows a simple principle in life, “My father used to tell me ‘If you have to be successful in life, cut out all your fall-back options and then pursue your goal.’ I have followed that till date and will continue to do so.”
 
 
