GHAZIABAD: Veer Singh, a tailor who sits with his sewing machine near Gate No. 2 of Gaur Green City in  , recently introduced himself to the meaning of alternative education when he enrolled his two children in an open school.

 “I think the education system in the country needs to undergo a change. The children can learn and grow in a better manner if they get a positive environment,” he said. Veer’s children — Rahul and Madhu — were earlier studying in a government school. But now, he sends them to free-for-all classes run by  , an initiative for the lesser privileged children, in Indirapuram.
 
 As part of the initiative, launched by a handful of women in July last year, about 45 students in different age groups like Rahul and Madhu are taught at Tikona Park between 4pm and 6pm.
 
 Kiran Nirmal, one of the founding members and a homemaker, recalled what prompted her to dedicate herself to Pahal. “Several months ago, some domestic helps working in our society, expressed concern about quality education for their children. Some of them said they couldn’t pay the fees while others said schools were not imparting the right kind of education,” Nirmal said.
 
 Along with a couple of other ladies, Nirmal started teaching some kids in the park. “The parents of these kids spread the word and that’s how we got more students,” she said, adding that students from kindergarten to Class X are taught in this open school.
 
 Pahal volunteers make sure that students get an inclusive environment and realise their individual strengths while participating in extracurricular activities like awareness rallies and art and craft projects, Nirmal said. At present, the students are preparing for a cleanliness rally and a skit to be performed in the neighourhood.
 
 Some other people associated with the initiative are Neelam Upadhyay, Sujata Ringe, Sushama Negi, Sishta Panda, Usha, Pratibha Mishra and Chitralekha Ghosh.
 
 Another group of residents from Gaur Green Society, ‘Helping Others’, also supports the initiative by providing free stationery and books to the students. Along with the RWA, the group arranged a hall for the Pahal volunteers in winters to hold the classes.
 
 A parent of two students, a washerman from Bahrampur in  , confirmed that the students get free meals.
 
 In the near future, the founding members of Pahal are planning to get the school registered and facilitate admission of the students in government schools.
 
 
