MUMBAI: There's a lot riding on the boys representing India in the upcoming  . Apart from being the first team to represent the country in a   event, they're also the hosts, which puts them under more pressure.

 As far as the chances of doing well in the tournament, they're nothing but underdogs, just like the Indian team that played the U-19   in 1974. That team were on the verge of missing the tournament as the then government felt it was unnecessary to send a side that in all likelihood were going to lose in the group stage itself.
 
 The team defied the odds and ended up joint winners with Iran. It was also the last time an Indian youth team was so successful at the Asian level. Their captain  , who scored five goals in that tournament, has some advice for the Colts before the World Cup which begins from October 6.
 
 “In the semifinal (Asian Youth Cup, 1974) we played against hosts Thailand. They were an excellent team but they took us for granted. In the final too we were taken for granted by Iran. Before the match, their team was already singing victory songs. But we had nothing to lose and played with that mindset. We managed to draw the match 2-2 and share the trophy with Iran. This team too has nothing to lose. If they can only focus and believe in themselves, they can definitely go past the group stage,“ Shabbir told TOI from Hyderabad.
 
 Ali, who was awarded the Dhyan Chand award -the highest award in Indian sports for lifetime achievement -in 2011, said the boys should know the enormity of the task at hand, but at the same time, shouldn't be overwhelmed. “During our time,   used to regularly appear on the front pages of newspapers while now it rarely features on page 1. If the boys manage to upset big guns, the sport will definitely start getting featured on the front pages again. This opportunity will not come again,“ he said.
 
 So what's the mindset of a player that goes on to represent the country at such a young age?
 
 Ali said the key is in not thinking too much.
 
 “If we paid attention to the happenings around us, we wouldn't have been able to win.This team should just keep their heads down and do their work.It's natural for a player to feel proud because they're representing the nation, but it's the coach's job to not allow them to get carried away .“
 
 
