MUMBAI: Preventing possible chaos in over 1000 schools in Thane and Palghar districts, the state, prompted by the Bombay high court, withdrew a year-old circular that sought to transfer teachers mid-term and on seniority basis. “If there is a sword of uncertainty over teachers and likelihood of them being transferred mid­ term, there would be no commitment to completing the course and would lead to a chaos,’’ said a bench of Justices B R Gavai and Riyaz Chagla, which had asked the state to withdraw its decision to transfer primary school teachers based on their seniority, following a 2014 bifurcation of Thane district. 

 The   policy to transfer teachers only on seniority basis, without maintaining vacancies in posts for reserved category, was “unsustainable" and would have caused an imbalance and disrupted “the entire primary education in Thane and Palghar districts’’, said the HC.
 
 The   got the state to withdraw its   within a day of the HC seeking his assistance last month. There are 1035 schools and 12000 teachers in the two new rural districts who would have been affected.
 
 The state has now held off transfers that followed bifurcation of Thane into two districts, till next academic year, in the larger interest of students. But the transfers already given effect too will continue till the next academic year, said Kumbhakoni, also in the larger interest of students to avoid any mid-term shuffle.
  
 The HC was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by primary school teachers who had challenged a change of policy by the Maharashtra government following the August 31, 2014 bifurcation of Thane district into Thane and Palghar. Preeti Walimbe, the teachers’ lawyer, said the state had last July replaced a February 2016 decision which had maintained the strength and vacancy of reserved category teachers in Thane and Palghar rural districts.
 
 On June 7, the bench had asked the state to find a solution. But on Jue 21, the state attempted to justify its decision and on June 22, the government pleader expressed his inability to find a solution as sought. That’s when the HC asked Kumbhakoni to step in and “protect the interest of students too’’ by considering withdrawal of the July 2016 GR.
 
 The next day, Kumbhakoni informed the HC that state rural development department would withdraw the July 2016 GR and restore the earlier guidelines that balanced interest of all category of teachers. The HC in its order expressed its "gratefulness'' to the new AG "for using his good offices in the shortest possible time'' and appreciated his assistance "in finding a solution to an issue which otherwise could have ramifications of creating a chaos in the entire primary education system in the Thane and Palghar Districts.’’
 
