SRINAGAR: Ahead of Hizbul commander  's first death anniversary on July 8, the state administration and the police have taken measures to prevent terrorists and separatists from observing the day. 

 Separatists and terror outfits have joined hands to observe the day, sources said.   leaders and Hizbul supreme commander Syed Salahuddin have called for a complete shutdown on July 8 and issued a a week's protest calendar.
 
 The Hizbul has decided to launch a recruitment drive for young Kashmiri boys, and it has already spread the word in south Kashmir's four districts - Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian - to assemble at Wani's native village Tral on July 8 for their recruitment drive. Hizbul is aiming to recruit at least 200 youth and arm them with weapons snatched from police, the sources said.
 
 According to some villagers, around half a dozen young boys from Radwani, Khudwani and Quimoh villages have gone missing in the last few days. Security agencies fear that the boys might have already joined the terror outfit. A senior leader of a national party said terrorists in Kulgam, Redwani, Khuwani, Quimoh, Hawara and Haji Dumhalpora have been mobilizing young boys from poor families to join Hizbul.
 
 Considered to be among the 12 dreaded Hizbul terrorists of the Burhan group, Altaf Ahmad Dar alias Kachroo, Kulgam district commander who joined militancy in 2006, is believed to be the man behind the recruitment drive. After Zakir Musa's exit from Hizbul, Kachroo is reportedly a contender for the divisional commander post of Hizbul.
 
 Security forces have launched the "operation clean-up" in the terror-prone parts of south Kashmir. "We will make all-out efforts to maintain law and order," Kashmir IG Muneer Khan said.
 
 Superintendents of Police of all the districts, especially the four in south Kashmir, have started rounding up over ground workers of terror outfits. Police in the four districts are likely to pick up stone-pelters to avert any law and order problem, a senior police officer said. Police have asked the stone-pelters to report to their respective police stations in order to hold them under "preventive detention" for a day or two till July 8, the officer added.
 
 Anantnag SSP Altaf Ahmad said stone-pelters would be kept under check on July 8. 
 
 The government has announced a 10-day summer break for all schools and colleges. All internet service providers have been asked to block social media sites from Thursday. Most separatists are being put under house arrest, officials said.
 
 “I want peace in my district and I will maintain it with full resources available to me. You need stick and carrot to cool the tempers,” the SSP said.
 
 The government has announced a 10-day summer break for schools and colleges. Internet service providers have been asked to block social media sites from Thursday. Separatists are being put under house arrest.
 
 
 
