VADODARA: The   of City police station has been served with a notice by a judicial magistrate’s court asking him to reply to the   filed by Munaf Sheikh, brother of Arshad Hussain Sheikh. Arshad had died of injuries sustained during rioting in Fatehpura in December, 2016.

 Munaf had filed a petition in the court on February 8 alleging inaction on part of city cops after his brother’s death. In his petition, Munaf had said they had given an application to file an FIR against M D Puwar, police inspector, City police station, N J Birade, police sub-inspector, City police station and other officers of city police, but the police only accepted the application and did not register a case.
 
 The petition that mentioned city police commissioner Manoj Shashidhar and Puwar as respondents, requested the court to order the city police to register Munaf’s complaint according to section 154 of Criminal Procedure Code. After hearing the petition, the court issued notice to Puwar to be present in the court on February 22 and register his statement. “The matter is sub-judice and we will reply to the court,” Shashidhar said.
 
 A pointed object had pierced Arshad’s eye and got stuck in his brain due to which he died during treatment at a private hospital on December 19, 2016. The injury happened when people from different communities clashed with each other and started to pelt stones after a ruckus over loud DJ music during a marriage procession. Arshad’s family had alleged that the pointed object that hit him was a pellet fired by the police.
 
 The police said they had also conducted an internal investigation in the matter but the reason remained inconclusive.
 
 Meanwhile, an RTI activist from city - Jitendra Chandwani - received a reply from City police to his RTI application that he had filed to know the details of the incident. 
 
 The reply said the police had fired a bullet from the .12 bore gun in the air. The bullet that hit Arshad had ricocheted after it hit a nearby building. Chandwani has sent an application along with the RTI reply to National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in New Delhi seeking an inquiry by a retired Supreme Court judge .
 
 
