GADCHIROLI: Wheelchair-bound   academic   and four others were sentenced to life term by a court here for links to the banned naxalite outfit CPI (Maoists) on Tuesday. The physically challenged professor of English was arrested in May 2014 and was on bail ordered by the   since June last year on ground of failing health. 

  All five were sentenced under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for being members of "terrorist gang or organisation and offences relating to support given to a terrorist outfit and waging war against the nation" along with criminal conspiracy. 
 
  The principal district and sessions judge, Suryakant Shinde, showed no leniency to the disabled professor while pronouncing the verdict in a packed courtroom. "Though he is physically handicapped, he is mentally fit. He is a think tank and leader of banned political organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisation RDF." 
 
  "Several lives were lost from 2009 due to your activities and there was huge loss of public property. The imprisonment for life is not a sufficient punishment to the accused, but the hands of court are tied with the mandate of Section 18 and 20 of UAPA. It's a fit case to award life imprisonment to all the accused, except one (Vijay Tirki)," the judge said. 
 
 A visibly upset Saibaba refused to comment on the judgment, asking TOI to speak to his lawyers. Even the police personnel prevented him from addressing the media.
 
 Saibaba's wife Vasanta issued a press statement saying, "Our advocates will move the (Bombay) high Court... This judgement is shocking... It seems the state and Central governments have put a lot of pressure on the judiciary to implement anti-people and undemocratic policies at the behest of corporates and MNCs.
 
 "The (state and Central) governments have selectively suppressed the voice of people to plunder the resources of this country. The BJP government wants to push nakedly the agenda of RSS by sending people like Saibaba behind bars."
 
 This is the first case in Maharashtra where convictions were made based on electronic evidence.
 
 Judge Shinde added that Gadchiroli has remained undeveloped since 1982 due to the Maoist movement and their violent activities.
 
 "For that, all accused and members of banned organisations, CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisation, Revolutionary Democratic Front (RDF), are responsible. About 78% of the district consists of forest which offers good shelter to the outlaws. Life in general is paralysed and no industrial and other developments take place due to fear of Naxalites and their violent activities. The government declared entire district as Naxalite-affected on August 6, 2002."
 
 The Gadchiroli police based their evidence on a memory chip received from Mishra after his arrest from Ballarshah railway station on August 22, 2013, with Mahesh Tirki and Narote. Incriminating data recovered from the hard disk of Saibaba's computer revealed their role in Maoist activities, police said.
 
 Rahi and Vijay Tirki were arrested on September 2, 2013, while Gadchiroli police arrested Saibaba on May 9, 2014, from his Delhi residence on charges of being a member of the banned CPI (Maoist), providing logistics and helping in recruitment for the group.
 
 Earlier, special public prosecutor   strongly demanded life term for all the accused. He argued against any leniency to Saibaba for his disability, as he used to go abroad to spread Maoist ideology and recruit youths. He used to communicate under the pseudonym 'Prakash' in his emails and letters for his "ulterior motives".
 
 "From December 31, 2008, several innocent persons were killed by the naxalites on suspicion of being police informers. Hundreds of police personnel also sacrificed their lives in encounters with the outlaws. Huge property was either damaged, destroyed or burnt by them. His role was clearly established through CDR records, two videos where he was clearly seen propagating Maoist ideology in seminars and conferences. Hence, all of them deserve, nothing short of life term," Sathianathan said while arguing on the quantum of sentence.
 
