NAINITAL: As many as 37 villages in the Champawat district of Kumaon have no young voters any more. District officials say all residents in these 37 villages are above 60 years of age -the next generation having moved out in search of jobs. Many villages have fewer than a hundred residents.

 Kwarsingh has 25 residents, Tarkuli and Chhoragaon, 35, and Kood 65 villagers. “There's nothing to keep the youth in the villages. There has been no development whatsoever. Though the Tanakpur power plant on the river Sharda river is just 9km from Thapliyalkheda village, home to 45 families, this village has no electricity ,“ Chandrashekhar Dwivedi, a resident of Champawat, told TOI.
 
 The 2011 census showed that of Uttarakhand's 16,793 villages 1,053 had no inhabitants and over 400 had a population of less than 10.
 
 The number of such `ghost villages' is believed to have gone up after the June 2013 flash floods. Estimates are that almost 3,500 villages in the state have little or no population left. 
 
 Damodardutt Joshi, 62, of Kwarsingh, says since 2012, the numbers started dwindling rapidly. Disillusioned with the lack of facilities youngsters migrated to bigger towns. “In 2012, there were almost 200 villag ers. We are just 25 people today. I have three sons, all of whom left saying there was no future for them here,“ says Joshi, his eyes brimming over at the dismal state of his village which is accessibly only after an almost 5km trek.
 
 Uttarakhand was carved out of UP in 2000, the separate state movement also fuelled by the belief that the hill state's people would have better access to infrastructure. Not only has this not happened, the exodus from the hills is a severe strain on towns, in particular state capital Dehradun where many end up in search of jobs and medical facilities. 
 
 “It's a sad reflection on work done by netas that successive governments have failed to stem the growing tide of migration or have policy for inclusive development of the hills,“ points out Nainital-based sociologist Ramesh Bisht.
 
 Asked about the absence of young voters in Champawat's villages, HG Bhatt, chief district development officer said, “The government has many schemes to check migration. But it will take time for results to show.“
 
