GURGAON:   has made some “hard decisions” this year as he yearns for consistency at the highest level. If it means shedding the tag of “global golfer”, so be it.

 “As much as I would like to be at three places at the same time, I'm human and I'm going to have to respect that,” he said, with a smile.
 
 Here for the Hero Indian Open before he flies off to the States again, the 2015 champion is, of course, keen to do well in what is known as the 'fifth Major' in these parts. The DLF   & Country Club's   course, which will be hosting a men's professional tournament for the first time, has its critics as well as admirers. Anirban feels there is room for improvement: “It is a unique course with many good holes, a lot of drivable par 4s but they really need to clean up a few areas. To want people to take a risk you must reward a person who hits a good shot and there are a few holes like the 17th where that shot may not be rewarded and I'm not okay with it. Having said that, I believe the conditions are immaculate.”
 
 But the thoughts keep skipping to what needs to be done for that next vital step - winning in America, contending in Majors and WGCs. The World No. 73 draws up a metaphor. “There is a big hedge that is growing, you start trimming and cutting it, refining it again and again, repeatedly. Same for me. I'm travelling a lot lesser this year, streamlining my priorities. Cutting down on tournaments, I will be shifting my focus towards what I need to do off the course working out or resting. Playing less but playing more at a hundred per cent. The focus is getting into the Presidents Cup team, the Masters, the Majors, WGCs. I feel like I need to start performing in those, so obviously the first thing for me is to get for me is to get in.”
 
 With his West Palm Be ach home in Florida as anchor, the 29-year-old is celebrating his 10th year as a professional. For the No. 33 in the   Cup standings, wisdom comes with experience. Walking down with the Jordan Spieths and Dustin Johnsons of the world does not perturb him. “My A game is definitely good as anybody. But how often do I play my A game? I need to be hundred per cent mentally, physically , technically... all systems need to be in line... and that's how the best players in the world play week in and week out. I'm getting closer to that specific consistency.”
 
 The important thing is to have a good team behind you. His wife Ipsa has “been a rock” on this difficult Tour and he can always turn to his parents. But the coterie of coach, trainer, nutritionist, physio are the “unsung heroes“. “When you see Jordan and Dustin win, they all have such a team. You need to build that. I've got that in place now and I think we will see results sooner rather than later.”
 
 He has learnt things the hard way. A shoulder injury hampered his performance at the Olympics. “I played at probably 30 to 40 per cent physically but believe me, I wasn't there to make up the numbers. I still felt if I had a great week chipping and putting, I could push for a medal. But when you play way below your physical capacity, you don't play well. It's a vicious cycle you have to avoid, that's why I took a big break of two and half months. Missed the Fedex playoffs. Luckily I had done enough to keep my card.”
 
 If he lifts a trophy soon, it won't be down to luck but to meticulous planning.
 
