Surrounded by the Ganga on one side and the Ghaghra on the other,   has been living under the   which   and farms every three to four years. Over a dozen villages, such as Dubey Chhapra, Gopalpur, Uddai Chhapra, Pachrukhiya, Narayanpur and Rampur are on the threshold of devastation after floods as Ganga waters have already started touching their borders. However, despite this being a big problem in the district, no political party has ever made efforts to save these villages from nature's fury. 

 Over the past 30 years, Ganga's massive floods have eaten into more than 30 villages on the southern bank, forcing hundreds of families to resettle in small huts along NH 19 (Ballia to  ). The highway is an embankment road, making it the safest place during floods. There are many families here which were once prosperous but are now living in huts along the highway because floods have ravaged their homes and farms.
 
 Sudama Singh, a resident of Narayanpur, says, "My house once got eroded in the floods of 1996. Then my family settled in Narayanpur, at a distance from the Ganga. But now, the river is again approaching my village. In August 2016, half of my house was immersed in flood water. If the government still doesn't save villages under threat, over 20,000 people would have to relocate next year." 
 
 Whenever floods approach villages, the government deploys engineers and contractors to erect wide walls made of boulders along the highway to stop the strong waves of the Ganga from damaging it. Locals claim that crores of rupees have been spent on saving the highway but no effort is made to save villagers. 
 
 Asha Devi of Mohan Chhapra says, "There is no value of the life of the poor in a politician's eyes. They spend crores in saving the highway but not a single penny to safeguard villages against floods." Villagers complain that long ago, a committee had suggested placing large amounts of sand along the river to help change the direction of the flow. "But these politicians and contractors make large sums of money in every flood by deploying boulders and concrete to build dam walls. They would never want to change the direction of the river as it gives them business," says Ashutosh Dubey, an angry villager.
 
