PATNA:   has not found any place of pride in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)-2017 with only the   (IIT)-Patna making it to the national ranking, but that too slipping from 10th in 2016 to 19th rank in 2017. Its overall rank is 83.

 In 2016, Bihar’s   and   had also made it to the Top-100, at 87th and 94th ranks respectively.
 
 The ranking was released by the Union ministry of human resource development on Monday. First developed in September 2015, the ranking this time is meant for six categories -- Overall, Colleges, Universities, Pharmacy, Management and Engineering.
 
 Besides IIT-P, NIT-P and CUSB, the NIRF applicants from Bihar included Bhagalpur College of Engineering,   College of Engineering, St Xavier’s College of Education, Ramdayal Singh College-Muzaffarpur and S Sinha College-Aurangabad.
 
 CUSB VC   blamed it on the lack of infrastructure for his university’s poor showing this year. “The university building is almost complete with only furnishing work left to be done. By September this year, everything will be done. From this session, few of the departments will be shifted to our main campus in Gaya,” he told this reporter over the phone on Tuesday.
 
 While claiming that CUSB is doing very well at the state level, VC Rathore admitted it was not enough to shine at the country level. “We will apply for the ranking next year too...,” he said.
 
 The ranking is done on the basis of teaching, learning and resources, research and professional practices, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity and perception. 
 
 NIT-P director Ashok De says he is shocked at the ouster of his institute from the Top-100. “In 2016, we had 15 external projects, some of which were published. In 2017, the institute has 46 external projects and most of them are published. The number of placements and the packages also improved this year,” he said.
 
 De said they would do introspection. “I think we are lacking in producing the required number of PhD scholars... and we were unable to gather the details of our passouts,” he said and hoped the NIT-P would do better next year.
 
