BHOPAL:   of students will help improve strength of students in engineering colleges from this year. Rajiv   (RGPV) has decided to attract students of other states by telling them about the success stories of students and the benefits of studying in Madhya Pradesh. The decision was taken recently during the meeting at  . 

 When contacted, RGPV vice-chancellor   says the university has formed a committee to prepare a roadmap in this regard. “The objective is to make a strong presence of the university at the national level. Success stories will be useful in attracting students and telling them that the state has been producing good students in all branches of engineering,” she said. 
 
 Getting accreditation from the  , putting university among top 100 in the country are going to be some of the approaches through which strong image of university will be created. “It is not the branding, but to create a good image of the university. The RGPV has been doing good things. This must also be known to others,” Shrivastava said. 
 
 Sources say the committee will talk to students and colleges in this regard. “The committee will focus on all aspects of strengthening the engineering scenario,” according to a senior official. 
 
 The RGPV has decided to revise the curriculum,which is to be implemented from July this year. It has been decided that the curriculum will be in keeping with the demand from the industry and academics. The decision to revise the curriculum was taken after several companies went back as they did not get required students in campus placements. 
 
 Measures like reducing seats were implemented in the state after poor admission scenario. The situation, however, could not improve as the problem was across the country. 
 
 There are more than 200 engineering colleges in the state. As 50% seats were vacant last year, engineering colleges realised need to reduce the number of seats. About surrendering seats, it was decided to block 25,000 seats. It was decided as and when the situation improves, the colleges will resume admission against the blocked seats.
 
