NAGPURr: The Independent English Schools’ Association ( ), a pan-Maharashtra association of private unaided schools, has decided not to register online from next year for participating in the   admission process. The group’s decision comes after an overwhelming majority of their 2,000-plus members complained about delayed RTE payments from state coffers. 

 Rajendra Dayma, founder-member of IESA, said, “The payments have been released in small instalments which is not the way it’s supposed to be. Now none of our members will register online for the RTE, the first step for conducting the online admissions.”   claimed that   region accounts for almost 700 members of the IESA. “We did a statewide survey of our members and many have received only up to 65% of their pending bills that too of certain academic years,” said Dayma.
 
 “We give free admissions, you reimburse the cost. It’s a very simple arrangement but the government has chosen not to honour its side of the arrangement. Schools are feeling heavy financial crunch because we are talking about 25% of revenue being blocked. Schools are not profit-making machines and are merely trying to provide the best of facilities for students,” he said.
 
 Some members within IESA felt that they could start approaching RTE parents and ask them to pay the fee since the government has failed to reimburse their costs. This thought process kicked off after a copy of a letter by an unidentified school went viral on social media.
 
 In that letter, authenticity of which could not be ascertained, the principal has asked all RTE parents to start paying full fee with immediate effect as the school had not received payment from the state. But, IESA management decided it was not the proper way to approach the problem.
 
 Dayma said, “It’s illegal to approach the RTE parents for fee so that we threw out completely. We will be approaching the courts now to make our case more stronger. It’s a long process and the reason we are not jumping into things is because we do not want our students to suffer in any manner. It’s an issue which only the government is complicating. There’s no reason for anybody else to get troubled here.”
 
