ALAPPUZHA: The Akhila Kerala   has come out against the state government’s move to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the film   based on a novel by the same name by Jnanpith laureate Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai. The government on Thursday had set up an organizing committee for the golden jubilee celebrations of Chemmeen at the behest of chief minister Pinarayi Viayan.

 Dheevara Sabha general secretary and former MLA V Dinakaran said the depiction of characters in the film and novel brought humiliation to the  . The novel Chemmeen written by Thakazhi humiliated people living in coastal areas, he alleged.
 
 “When it was made into a film, it affected the life of the coastal people as the film depicted the fishermen community in bad light. In the film, the men and women in our community were referred to as ‘arayan and arayathi’. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan once called my brother A V Thamarakshan ‘Chembenkunju’. Students from our community are still taunted in schools in the name of characters in Chemmeen. JSS leader K R   also humiliated me stating the names of characters in the film Chemmen in assembly. It is a matter of our prestige. So we will prevent the celebrations of Chemmeen at any cost,’’ he said.
 
 Chemmeen is a 1965 Malayalam film directed by Ramu Kariat and produced by Babu Ismail Sait.
 
 S L Puram Sadanandan penned the screenplay. It was the first South Indian film to bag the President’s gold medal for the best film. Actors Sheela and Madhu essayed the lead roles of Karuthamma and Pareekutty.
 
 Sheela said she does not understand the rationale of Dheevara Sabha in objecting to the celebration of a film that gave a global identity to Malayalam cinema.
 
 “I am thankful to the government for this decision. I don’t understand why Dheevara Sabha is against it. I feel the film depicted reality and beauty of the coastal life. I am ready to discuss the issue with the Dheevara Sabha to clear their doubts,’’ said Sheela.
 
 The golden jubilee celebrations to be held on April 8 in Alappuzha will be inaugurated by CM Pinarayi Vijayan. The celebrations will be held in Purackadu and Neerkunnam.
 
