THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: From the next  , which will begin from June 1, all the government and aided schools in the state will offer   (ICT) based education to the students of primary and upper primary classes.

 The government had already launched ICT-based education for high school classes from 2009 itself, and the primary and upper primary classes will follow suit from the coming academic year.Education minister C Raveendranath said that the sur vey for providing laptops, desktops and multi-media   are going on in the state, which would be completed soon. Broadband connections have been provided for 97% of the schools at a subsidised rate by BSNL, he said.
 
 The government had already launched an ICT-based edutainment book titled `Kalippetti' in the last academic year itself for students from Class I to Class IV, and another book for students from Class V to Class VII titled `e@vidya' was launched by the minister on Friday. In addition, 32,100 prima ry teachers and 38,502 upper primary teachers have been trained on how to go ahead with ICT-based education on the various subjects for the students. The ICT-based textbooks and digital material, which could be utilized even when there is a connectivity issue pertaining to networks, would be distributed to all teachers and the students. The study materials will be copyright free.
 
 The government would also provide new   including projectors,   and video conferencing facilities for which a detailed project report would be submitted to Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) in July as the existing facilities in many schools have been found insufficient, the minister said. The additional IT infrastructure would benefit 9,377 schools, the minister added.
 
 General education department secretary Usha Titus said that the department would also launch a portal soon in connection with ICT-based education. “This portal will have books and other digital resources that can be accessed by parents and teachers,“ she said.
 
 As part of its declared policy on education, the government is working on converting 45,000 high school classrooms in 4,775 government and aided schools in to hitech classrooms.
 
 
