GUWAHATI: Is the city going the Delhi way so far as pollution is concerned in the gateway to the northeast? Experts said that though the level of pollution level in the city has not reached up to the national capital's level, the situation here is alarming. 

 At a multi-stakeholder meeting organized by the Clean   (CAA) here on Wednesday, policy-makers, researchers, health and environment experts pitched for putting in place an action plan to check the pollution in the city, overwhelming contributed by vehicular traffic.
 
 Professor of environmental engineering at the IIT Guwahati's department of civil engineering,  , said that slow movement of vehicles because of frequent traffic congestion has contributed in shooting up concentration of black carbon emission, one of the major pollutants causing global warming. 
 
 A study carried out by Gokhale and his team between 2015 and 2016 on pollution levels in the city found that black carbon concentration has gone up to 50 to 60 microgram per cubic metre along the  , the busiest route in the city.
 
 The study, 'Urban black carbon emission - global impact and local mitigation' found Lachit Nagar, a prime area, itself emitted 111.295 microgram per cubic metre in winter.
 
 "During peak hours the speed of the vehicles come down to almost 8 to 10 km per hour. Slow movement of vehicles means adding more pollution. Also, there are a fleet of commercial diesel vehicles running in the city which are too old," Gokhale said.
 
 State transport commissioner Puru Gupta conceded that in the absence of industry, traffic alone has emerged as the major pollution contributor in the city. He suggested creation of a dedicated unit to steer the concerned departments in mitigating pollution levels in the city.
 
 "We have to put in place a proper monitoring system for pollution level, and take short as well as long term measures for mitigation. Through effective partnership with multiple agencies we can make the city cleaner," Gupta said.
 
 CAA-India director   said Wednesday's consultation was about doing an assessment on the status of pollution in the city, which is also included under the   project, for preparing an action plan.
 
 "We want to take Guwahati as a pilot city to showcase international strategies for making the air clean. We are doing the assessment to develop the action plan," Borah said.
 
