New Delhi: As a controversy broke out over the   fare hike to be implemented from October, the role and functioning of the fare fixation committee took centrestage on Thursday. The fare fixation committee is a three-member group that recommends revisions in the fares for the urban train service. It is chaired by an existing or retired high court judge with representatives from the central and state governments. Under the   (Operation & Maintenance) Act, 2002, this panel is set up by the Union ministry of urban development independent of the train company.

 The fourth fare fixation committee was constituted in May 2016. It comprised retired Delhi high court Justice ML Mehta as chairman, with  , the then chief secretary of Delhi, and Durga Shanker Mishra, additional secretary, Union ministry of urban development, as members. It met in October last year to decide the quantum of hikes in fares and its decisions were adopted at the meeting of DMRC’s board of directors in May. 
 
 However, Delhi government now claims that its opposition to the fare hike, enunciated in a letter to   in June 2016, was not taken into account while finalising the new rates. Sources contradicted this pointing out to TOI that Sharma, the Delhi government representative, had signed the panel report and endorsed the group’s decision. 
 
 The state government is also claiming that when the DMRC board met in May to adopt the recommended rates, Sharma and the Delhi transport commissioner were not present, leaving Delhi government at the discussions. The two governments are equal stakeholders in the DMRC joint venture.
 
 The last fare revision, effective November 2009, had been based on the suggestions of the third fare fixation committee constituted in June that year. This year, the fare revision was being executed in two phases: the first was on May 10, and the second was to start from October 10. 
 
 DMRC is paying back Japan International Cooperation Agency for the soft loan it has taken to carry out the capital-intensive rail network construction. “On March 31, the outstanding   loan was Rs 26,760.28 crore, with interest thereon,” a DMRC spokesperson said. DMRC has made repayments to the tune of Rs 3,770.79 crore, of which interest accounted for Rs 2,263.67 crore, the rest being the principal repaid. “The daily operating profit earned by DMRC for 2016-17 is Rs 1.58 crore,” the spokesperson added.
 
