A   was launched at   in Brampton -for the first time, despite opposition from certain quarters. The pavilion also included the traditions of East and West Punjab, divided by the Radcliffe Line between India and Pakistan. The theme of the Punjab pavilion, “East or West, Canada is the best“-too reflected the  's mindset.

 The Punjab pavilion showcased different shades of culture, having stalls named after different cities of East and West Punjab. The three-day festival, in which 12 countries participated, ended on Sunday.
 
 The pavilion had triggered a controversy when some Indian officials in Canada and a few organizers of the Indian pavilion, objected to a separate pavilion on Punjab. They wanted it to be a part of Indian pavilion like before. Sanjeev Malik, who heads UPICA (Uttar Pradeshis In Canada), Bhavesh Kothari and Harveena Sandhu were of the view that more space could be set aside for Punjab.
 
 However, Brampton May or Linda Jaf fery and   Board president Angela Johnson did not agree. Jeffrey in a Facebook post said, “Suggestions that the Punjab pavilion “is in bad taste“, I think, crosses the line. I want to make it known that I wholeheartedly welcome the Punjab pavilion and support the Carabram Board's decision.“
 
 Jeffrey also said, “Every year there is lively debate about the pavilions, but this year I have been told that there has been unwarranted interference in the decisions of the Carabram Board that I find concerning.“
 
 Prithpal Singh Chaggar, chair of Punjab pavilion, while speaking to TOI on phone from Canada, said they used to get a very small space in the Indian festival.So, when discussions on having a Punjab pavilion began, he advocated transcending geog raphical boundaries and showcasing the entire Punjab as well as its culture. “Punjab can't be complete without showcasing the land of five rivers. Moreover, the festival is organized to show different cultures and there is nothing wrong in displaying Punjabi culture in a separate pavilion,“ he said.
 
 He said ,“Two top Indian consulate officials met me on different occasions and argued that there should be no separate Punjab pavilion ...but I told them we are Indians, but our identity is Punjabi, and it's a cultural festival.“ Chaggar is related to Bardish Chaggar, minister of small business and tourism in Canada's federal government.
 
 Referring to the participation of Punjabis of Pakistani origin, he said, “Punjab pavilion has rather added to this celebration and brought people together.“
 
 TRANSCENDING BOUNDARIES
 
 A pavilion of “Eelam of Tamil culture“ was also put up. “Tamil is spoken by over 80 million people all over the world ­ 60 million live in Tamil Nadu in India, 3 million live in Ceylon (Sri Lanka) in the North and East, one million live in Malaysia and more than 300,000 live in Canada,“ reads the introduction on Carabram website.
 
