Findings from the first global-scale study on khatna or female circumcision as practised by   around the world has revealed that 80% of respondents had undergone female genital cutting and 98% are overwhelmingly aware of the continuation of khatna in the community with "religious purposes" as the major rationale. This validates the protests against female   (FGM) and fills in some of the blanks in data, the lack of which had made it difficult to pass legislation to end a practice, banned in most countries. 

 The survey, conducted by Sahiyo, a non-profit collective trying to end khatna among Dawoodi Bohras and supported by the  , was released on Monday, which happened to be a day that UN has declared as International Zero Tolerance Day for FGM.
 
 Despite abandonment of FGM being listed under UN's Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, its prevalence in India has received sparse attention from authorities. 
 
 For a ritual rooted in the community's century-old cult-ure and carried out in secret, a snowball sampling technique of gathering data online was used that was anonymous and voluntary and found 385 respondents among   living in the West Asia, Europe, North America, Australia, East Africa, and parts of Asia. Conducted from July 25, 2015 to January 25, 2016, most participants were between the ages of 18- 45. Multiple explanations of why khatna continued in the community ranged from it "being a necessary requirement for good marriage" to "gaining respect from community" but the most common answer was "religious". A large percentage of survey participants lacked basic understanding of the female anatomy, making it difficult for survivors to indicate their physical challenges and pointing at a need for more sexual health education in schools.
 
 "This is a small exploratory part of what can be achieved to shape further research and establish strategies to bring the practice to an end," explained Aarefa Johari, a founding member of Sahiyo. 
 
 While the report offers greater impetus to the movement, given that 81% of the participants revealed that they do not want khatna to continue, another faction of women steering the circumcision battle - Speak Out on FGM - released letters to Syednas or heads of the Dawoodi, Alvi and   communities urging a dialogue. They have found a supporter in Lalitha Kumaramangala, National Commission for Women chairperson who called FGM, an "infringement of human rights" on Monday. 
 
 
