KOLKATA: A resident of   (North) in Hooghly’s Dankuni, who faked his brother’ s identity and worked as an assistant secretary for the   (WBBSE) for 29 years, was arrested on Saturday, four months before his retirement. An internal audit conducted by the WBBSE secretary finally called Gautam Kumar Sarkar’s bluff on April 7. The incident raises concerns over the absence of a cross-checking system in the government departments to verify documents of their employees.

 Gautam’s brother Swapan was offered a job in the Calcutta State Transport Corporation (CSTC) on compassionate grounds, after the demise of his father in harness as an employee of the corporation in 1985. However, when Swapan took up the job, he left his parental home. This, perhaps, left the family desperate as they were dependent on Swapan after the father died. 
 
 A few years later, Gautam received a call from the employment exchange with a job offer in the WBBSE for his elder brother. The minimum qualification required for the job was a graduate degree in commerce. Gautam, an arts graduate, informed the employment exchange that his elder brother was missing. In 1988, Gautam again got a call from the employment exchange with the same job offer for Swapan. This time, however, Gautam did not refuse but decided to accept the job posing as his brother.
 
 Though Gautam is actually 57 years old, he was to retire this September as his service records show that he will be turning 60. Meanwhile, his elder brother Swapan retired from the state transport corporation job in 2015, on a voluntary basis. 
 
 “It seems Swapan had left his original certificates and other credentials at his Dankuni residence when he moved out. Gautam used them to pose as his elder brother. A complaint was lodged in April after his fraud was detected by the audit team,” said an officer of the investigating team, led by inspector Debashish Nath and sub-inspector Sujit Kumar Maity of the Bidhannagar police station. 
 
 “We seized all documents before arresting Gautam,” the officer added. Reportedly, Gautam told the police that he had initially been apprehensive of getting caught in the office but became comfortable after a decade. Swapan’s statements are likely to be recorded before a magistrate.
 
