PUNE: The district consumer court has directed Bank of Maharashtra to recover over Rs 5 lakh from errant   at its Sinhgad Road branch for rendering deficient service.

 Anandnagar residents Sanjay and   had complained to the consumer court that the bank froze their savings and current accounts for recovery of Rs 4.5 lakh. This was after two cheques of the same amount, issued to them on different occasions by a builder, were dishonoured.
 
 They complained that the bank froze their accounts without returning the two original cheques, along with the cheque return memos, thereby depriving them of an opportunity to take legal action against the builder for having issued dud cheques to them.
 
 The bench of V P Utpat, O G Patil and   directed the bank to refund Rs 4 lakh to the complainants with interest at 9.15% p.a. since June 2014 and pay Rs 10,000 as compensation. The interest component so far works out to Rs 95,000 and the total amount goes over Rs 5 lakh. The bench ordered that this amount should be recovered from the concerned employees and the bank should report compliance.
 
 On April 29, 2014, the Kharotes deposited the first cheque of Rs 4.5 lakh in their savings account. Over the next two months, the couple even withdrew Rs 50,000 of this amount, using their debit card on different occasions and requested the bank to transfer the remaining Rs 4 lakh into a fixed deposit (FD). The bank issued them an FD receipt on June 13, 2014, promising a maturity amount of Rs 5.24 lakh payable on June 13, 2017. 
 
 To their surprise, the Kharotes got a call from the bank in October 2014 that the cheque they had deposited was dishonoured and they should return Rs 4.5 lakh. The couple called on the bank officials and told them that they would secure a fresh cheque of the same amount from the builder. They did so and deposited the second cheque which too was dishonoured. 
 
 However, the bank did not pay heed to their repeated requests to give them the two original cheques with the cheque return memos and insisted that the couple should liquidate their FD to repay the amount. The bank went on to freeze their accounts.
 
 The bench came down heavily on the bank for not responding to its notices which prompted it to proceed against the bank ex-parte. “The bank, including its headquarters in Pune, did not feel it necessary to turn up and give explanation about the transaction involved in the consumer complaint. Entire attitude of the bank is sufficient to hold that it caused deficiency in service and patent neglect,” the bench said. 
 
 Lawyer Rahul S Gandhi, who represented the complainants, said, “We will furnish a certified copy of the ruling to the bank for implementation of the order. In case of failure, an execution proceeding will be initiated.”
 
 
