HYDERABAD: Political parties know how to circumvent the new transparency rule proposed by finance minister   in the budget tabled on Wednesday . Jaitley's big idea is easier said than done. “If any donation is more than `2,000, it has to be paid through cheque, bank transfer or bonds. But political parties will have ways to dodge the rule. They will split the donation amount in cash from an individual and cut several receipts in different names. Politicians do not have to be taught this. They know every trick of the trade,“ said Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu of Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).

 There is another hassle in implementing the rule proposed by Jaitley .  , 1951, will have to be amended to make political parties disclose amounts of more than `2,000 they get as donations. As of now, in the Act, they will have to disclose only amounts which are more than `20,000.
 
 Big amounts disclosed have been received through cheque. In 2015-16, Telangana Rashtra Samithi got `76 lakh through three donations, TDP got `3.10 cr through 75 donations, YSRCP got 1.65 through 33 donations. ADR has pointed out that political parties need not reveal name of individuals or organizations giving less than `20,000.As a result, over two-thirds funds cannot be traced and are from `unknown' sources.According to ADR,   got 143 donations amounting to `86.84 cr and AAP got `6.60 cr through 1187 donations.
 
 From the way political parties operate, not all expenditure is necessarily met through party funds like organizing rallies, public meetings or road shows. “The ground reality is the local MLA, ministers or party leaders bear most of the expenditure for any party programme,“ said a politician.This expenditure will include providing transport to people for meetings, providing food and water, providing petrol for rallies, and practically everything. “We are moving to a cashless transactions system as introduced by the Centre. Such a reform being introduced for political parties will have to be followed,“ said Palle Rajeshwara Reddy , chief whip in the legislative council.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rajeshwara Reddy said, business houses give donations through cheques to all parties so there is no big change required. “If individuals making donations of `20,000 or more have to adopt the new method, they will get used to it in due course,“ he said.
 
