BHUBANESWAR: Petroleum minister   seemed to be in a spot of bother after the state vigilance registered a case against his brother Soumendra for alleged   and the BJD burnt his effigy for his suspected role in the   on the ruling regional party leaders in connection with Seashore chit fund scam. On Tuesday, Dharmendra tried to clear the air regarding the raids and Raman Singh's arrival for campaigning for the panchayat elections, during an informal media interaction here. 

  On use of   for political reasons: Those who are saying the CBI is acting at the behest of the Centre have limited knowledge. What can I tell them? The wrongdoers with guilty minds need some excuse. Lakhs of people were looted of crores in the chit fund scam. The probe is being monitored by the Supreme Court. The Union government has no role in it. The CBI is probing not just in Odisha. The question is not why the raids were conducted now. The question is whether there will be probe or not. Since the probe agency has brought many BJD leaders under the purview of investigation, it's natural for them to fear. 
 
  On raid at his brother's gas agency: The Centre and the state have joint responsibilities to enforce the Essential Commodities Act. If the state felt that there were deviations somewhere, it is free to take action. Someone can't be above law just because he is my brother. I don't have any objection for action against him. The state government should take it to the logical end. 
 
  On state using vigilance to counter CBI: I don't compare the two agencies' actions. The probe agencies should be allowed to do their duties. Both central and state agencies work under certain established norms. If any individual feels that she or he is running these agencies or can run them, that is a wrong notion. The investigating and enforcement agencies, both of the Centre and the states, should be allowed to function independently. I am in-charge of a department at the national level. Laws must be enforced strictly. 
 
  On BJP's selection of Raman Singh as a star campaigner: The Mahanadi river dispute is an important issue. The   will never compromise on its stand. The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre is committed to protect Odisha's interest. The state's interest is non-negotiable. However, in a democracy every political party has the right to campaign. The Chhattisgarh chief minister is a popular leader. He hitting the campaign trail will help the BJP. 
 
 
