PUNE: Commuters will have to wait for two more months to use the third flyover being constructed at the   of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) Chowk. 

 The flyover will be a crucial link for vehicles exiting Sangam bridge and wanting to travel towards the   Road towards Khadki.
 
 About 75% work of the 400-metre flyover has been completed and the rest is expected to get over by July, officials in the civic administration said. 
 
 Three flyovers were planned at the CoEP chowk to ease traffic. Two flyovers, one connecting   to Sancheti Chowk and another connecting Sangam Bridge Road to Sancheti Chowk have been opened for vehicular traffic in the last year.
 
 Regular commuters using this junction said the flyovers were necessary considering the sheer volume of traffic. The flyovers have reduced traffic congestion to a large extent as waiting for signals to change have been almost nullified. Once the third flyover is opened for traffic, further streamlining of traffic movement between Sangam bridge and   will take place.
 
 Viraaj Manas, a regular commuter, said the flyover will reduce traffic congestion at Patil Estate junction and vehicles travelling towards Sangamwadi and the Pune-Mumbai Road will have separate lanes, he said. 
 
 A senior civic official said, “Initially, the work was slated for completion by February 2017. It was granted an extension of four months up to June 2107. “Work on crucial patches, especially above the chowk, is underway at present and we expect that the ongoing work including the landing wing at Patil Estate will get over by July,” official said.
 
 A few months ago, the completed flyover turning towards   was a nightmare for vehicle users. 
 
 Commuters were challenged to follow traffic rules in the absence of proper direction boards. Those using the flyover for the first time and people driving to the city from other places were the most harried lot.
 
 The CoEP flyover is crucial to enter the city and has three wings each coming from Pune-Mumbai Road, Sangamwadi and the Regional Transport Office.
 
 Motorists had said the wing that began from Pune-Mumbai Road lacked direction boards as the wing splits into two, of which one heads towards Jangli Maharaj Road and the other towards the RTO. 
 
 Drivers faced problems in getting to the right wing as there are no direction boards to point them in the right direction.
 
