Nakli rapperon ko kha gaya main, Symbiosis aa gaya main,” exclaimed   as he exploded onto stage on the second and final day of Symaroh 2017, Symbiosis Centre for Management Studies’ fest, which was held at   over the weekend. The rapper was headlining the celebrity night of the two-day fest, which had seen events like a fashion show, battle of the bands, scores of song and dance competitions and a DJ night. The rapper began by apologizing for reaching late – his performance was scheduled to begin at 7pm, but he made it to stage only an hour after. “Sabse pehle main mangoonga maafi, intezar karaya maine sab ko kaafi,” said Badshah in his trademark style.

  
  JUMP JUMP: Badshah and   (BCCL)
 
 As the concert began, the crowd took a little time to get into the groove, to which the rapper said, “Kya hua, Noida ke logon ko party karna nahi aata hai kya? I haven’t partied at all in the last month-and-a-half. Aaj raat mera aim bas party karne ka hai. C’mon guys, let’s turn this place into the biggest nightclub ever!” But as Badshah belted out some of his most popular hits, such as 'Saturday Saturday', 'Chull' and 'Hamma Hamma', the crowd soon found their rhythm. Singers   and Gurinder Rai performed alongside the ' ' hitmaker in a charged up, 90-minute performance. 
 
  
  Astha Gill, the 'DJ Wale Babu' hitmaker, was here too (BCCL)
 
  
 Anticipating a large crowd at the stadium, the organizers went the extra mile to make sure security was in order.  , a student who was part of the security team at the event, told us, “We had 30 student volunteers taking care of the security on day one. But with the Badshah concert, we knew we would need reinforcements. So we had 55 bouncers provided by Badshah’s team for that day, apart from 15 cops in three PCR vans stationed inside and at the major entry points of the stadium, which were provided by  .” The organizers even brought in half a dozen metal detectors, and each entrant was frisked manually twice. According to the organizers, there were over 2,000 people in the stadium for the concert.
 
  
  Organizers of the fest said that there were over 2,000 people at the Badshah gig (BCCL)
 
 
 
