BHUBANESWAR: The   ( ) on Monday asked the   (BMC)to file an affidavit mentioning its stance on the dumping of waste at the controversial village, Daruthenga, on the outskirts of the city. 

 The NGT direction came after the BMC responded to its queries in the court whether it obtained consent to operate certificate from   (OSPCB) to dump the waste at the village. Consent to operate is required to operationalize a dumping yard. 
 
 The BMC has been dumping municipal solid waste at Daruthenga, a village which is not under BMC jurisdiction. Around 500 metric tonne of garbage is dumped every day. 
 
 BMC deputy commissioner Srimanta Mishra, who appeared in person before the NGT, said they were asked to file the affidavit within next date of hearing on May 30. "We have informed the court that we have obtained an authorization from the OSPCB but yet to get the consent to operate certificate. The consent certificate can be obtained only after getting environmental clearance from State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA)," Mishra told TOI. 
 
 The Daruthenga villagers had moved the court in January to press for their demand of shifting the dumping site from their village citing pollution. The villagers in protest of this had also boycotted the panchayat elections in February. 
 
 Mishra further said the SEIAAs clearance is given after only public hearing which the Daruthenga villagers are averse to. The SEIAA has already started the process of giving the environmental clearance. "The NGT asked us to mention all the details including our legal stance in the affidavit for the hearing on May 30," he added. 
 
 In March, then housing and urban development minister   had said in the assembly that there is no plan to shift the current solid waste dumping yard at Daruthenga, which is around 2 km from the city. 
 
 In a 2009 judgment of high court, it directed BMC to dump the waste only at the designated place (Daruthenga) and if needed it can do so taking help of the police. 
 
