PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic administration has set up a   for the implementation of the   for the upcoming municipal elections. 

 The   (PCMC) has also provided a toll free number to make complaints about code violations. A mobile application, ‘Citizen on patrol’, has also been developed to enable citizens to upload photographs of candidates distributing money or liquor and other goods to induce voters. Such complaints will reach the returning officer as well as the police.
 
 Municipal commissioner   on Thursday said special flying surveillance and video surveillance teams have also been formed for this purpose. 
 
 “All six zonal offices have been directed to remove the flex boards and banners related to political parties and candidates,” the municipal commissioner said. 
 
 “A committee has been set up under the municipal commissioner for the effective implementation of the code, and smooth conduct of the election process. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone III, and superintendent of Pune rural police were also informed about taking necessary steps to maintain law and order during the election period,” Waghmare added.
 
 Tanaji Shinde, additional municipal commissioner, said as many as 11   will be appointed, as per the orders of the divisional commissioner, over the next few days.
 
 “The candidates will have to fill out the nomination forms online on ‘www.panchayatelection.maharashtra.gov.in’, but they must submit physically the printout of the form to the returning officer. There is a help desk at the office of each returning officer to help candidates in filling the nomination forms. The Truevoter mobile app was earlier used by the election department staff, but now can be used by citizens to find their names in the voter list and polling booth,” Waghmare said.
 
 He added that representatives and office-bearers of the political parties have demanded a single window system for candidates and political parties at the election department, instead of zonal offices. 
 
 The ward-wise draft voter list was published on January 12 and is sold in form of CDs at the election office, at a cost of Rs300. The citizens can submit their suggestions and objections to this list till January 17 at the PCMC’s main office building as well as the six zonal offices.
 
 Yashwant Mane, chief of election department, PCMC, said, “The election department has taken possession of the official cars of the civic office-bearers. The cars will be used for election duties. The work of removing the unauthorized banners and flexes is in progress.” 
 
