NEW DELHI: While   (NGT) came down hard on the increasing pollution levels, the Delhi transport department carried out a unique audit of all the pollution checking centres in the capital. 

 Of the total 968 pollution under control (PUC) centres in Delhi, the department conducted an audit of 709. “The audit has been going on for a few months now and we have already inspected most of the PUCs. The audit has resulted in suspension of licences of some of the centres,” said transport commissioner Vikram Dev Dutt. The audit is a part of the measures initiated by the  , which has also asked   (EPCA) to conduct a similar audit of all PUCs in the National Capital Region. 
 
 The audit has come out with some interesting findings. Till mid-March, the transport department had audited 709 centres, of which 169 were issued deficiency memos. Licences of six centres were suspended, another four were warned and 97 were issued show-cause notices. “The audit is expected to be completed soon. It’s a time consuming process as there are over 950 centres in Delhi and we conducted an exhaustive audit of all the centres surveyed,” Dutt said.
 
 The audit came up with a number of deficiencies or discrepancies in some of the centres. One of the common problems encountered was lack of maintenance. For instance, several of the centres didn’t have proper probe pipes. They were either unclean or damaged. In other cases, poor display of emission standards was common. Some were found either shut or not performing checks. Other problems included lack of displaying proper certification by the centres, like calibration certificates, ARAI apporval certificates, type approval certificates etc.
 
 According to Dutt, the audit was more of a physical check of the PUC centres, with the transport department skipping the audit of the software used. Neither did the department check the process of the pollution checking being undertaken at the centres. All these, however, will be dealt with by EPCA, which is expected to carry out a more thorough check of the efficacy of these centres.
 
 PUCs have been under the scanner for some months now, especially after the apex court ordered a crackdown on visibly polluting vehicles. Dutt said the PUC certificate plays an important part in the fight against pollution, adding that the audit would go a long way towards enabling the transport department to do a better job.
 
 
