PANAJI: Amidst fears that the popular Parra variety of   are slowly shrinking into oblivion, there seems to be some hope for revival of this crop with a few farmers’ effort promising to yield a good produce this season.

 Sakaram Bakkar’s family has been growing watermelons for nearly 70 years. But in recent years, those savouring the taste of the Parra fruit are worried that farmers raising the crop are dwindling. Fears have also boosted a slight revival during the last couple of years. This year, Bakkar’s family is ready to harvest 2,000 watermelons in their farm.
 
 “This year’s watermelon produce has turned out to be fatter, bigger and sweeter,” another farmer,   said. This year, the farmers shifted from regular fertilizers to good quality fertilizers offered by a chemical company. Experts have also been monitoring the crop.
 
 “Though we had a satisfactory produce each year, this season, we have a better,” he said.
 
 Parra Sarpanch, Delilah Lobo informed that even pesticides are being sprayed on the crop fortnightly, free of cost. “Other varieties of watermelons are also being grown using the seeds distributed by the company. All this being a part of their CSR activity,” she said.
 
  who planted 300 seeds of the   variety of watermelons said, “The quality of watermelons this season is much better compared to last year. Since we sell the produce directly to the consumer, the profit comes entirely to us. The harvest season will go on till mid-April and retail rates will gradually come down to a much-affordable price,” he said.
 
 While the farmers are all set for a good crop, they face challenges in terms of theft and bird attacks.
 
 “The produce is abundant but our only fear is of prowling by crows, myna and parrots,” said Bakkar who still uses the conventional method of scarecrows.
 
 For Parsekar however, the attack of the avians is not the only fear. Trespassing and thefts adds to her woes. “The downfall of getting a good crop is that there are thefts by notorious persons of the village. Around 200 of my watermelons were stolen this time,”
 
 This wonder-fruit fetches anywhere from Rs 70 to Rs 120 per fruit. She therefore suspects that the stolen bounty is being sold in the markets by the thieves. “After struggling to keep Parra watermelons alive and making efforts for a plentiful produce, it is disappointing to wake up and find some stolen.” she added.
 
