Hyderabad: San Francisco-headquartered market intelligence solutions provider   is eyeing acquisitions in the areas of data science, analytics and data services, Umberto Milleti, global CEO and founder of InsideView, said on Monday. 

 “We are always looking for potential acquisitions that can accelerate our go-to-market strategy. It will be mainly around (players in) data science, analytics, information or data services and intelligence that focus on the Asian market. We are actively looking into many startups…,” Milleti said, adding that the company may finalise a deal this year. The company plans to invest $25 million in technology and product development over the next three years as the demand is shifting to account-based marketing (which is more targeted and personalised marketing) as well as adoption of AI technology, among others.
 
 With the Asia Pacific market growing by leaps and bounds, the company is investing more towards technology tools for these markets. “Asia Pacific is the fastest growing market, even ahead of US and Europe…Within Asia, India is a major market where we have key clients mainly in IT and consulting. We are also expanding into other geographies like Australia, Malaysia and Singapore,” D Sesha Rao, managing director (India Operations) InsideView, said. As Asia becomes the focus area, the Hyderabad office, which currently has a headcount of 180, will play an increasingly important role in charting out go-to-market strategies in the region. Rao said that in Asia, the adoption of sales and marketing technologies is catching up as more organisations are moving from back-end process implementation to ERP (enterprise resource planning) to CRM (customer relationship management) and associated technologies. On the impact of the ‘uncertainty’ due to political developments in the US and Europe, Milleti said it is unlikely to impact the company’s business growth as during an economic slowdown, companies tend to invest more in sales and marketing to remain visible and explore alternative markets. 
 
 
