NASHIK: Academicians here have high hopes from Nitin Karmalkar, who took over as vice-chancellor of the   ( ) a few days ago. 

 While welcoming the appointment of Karmalkar as successor of V B  , who worked significantly for development of the   sub-centre of the university, academicians, teaching community and prominent personalities expressed hope that the full-fledged sub-centre will become a reality during the first phase of his tenure. 
 
 "I am sure that academicians and students of SPPU want the sub-centre with all student welfare facilities here only. The sub-centre should be autonomous and it should cater to all needs of students," said V B Gaikwad, principal of KTHM. College who is closely associated with the Board of College & University Development, SPPU. 
 
 "Also, the Jaikar Library here should be strengthened in such a way that it will provide facilities to the professional colleges. This will surely save the effort and expenditure of students and teachers on frequent visits to Pune," he added. 
 
 Karmalkar is the 25th VC of the SPPU, where more than 6,000 students are enrolled in various courses. More than 300 colleges in Nashik district are affiliated to the SPPU. 
 
 Ram Kulkarni, principal of Bytco College said the new VC should focus on promoting research in all faculties. "Not only in engineering, science and technology, but in linguistics, fine arts and social sciences also research should be promoted. Bringing coordination in various departments and works of affiliated colleges is going to be a major task for the new VC." 
 
 Educationist V B Patil, who is associated with the Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj here said that the new VC has plans to develop a satellite campus for the university, which is going to be an important step. "I learned that Karmalkar wants to introduce a 'school system', under which allied departments will be clubbed together and headed by one director. He feels this will help manage the faculty crunch and that the faculty can be interchanged within the department. This thinking is very progressive for the SPPU." 
 
 Before taking over as VC, Karmalkar was the head of the department of environment sciences and a professor of geology in SPPU.
 
 "We are happy as a geologist is holding the prestigious position of VC. The SPPU was recently awarded the 'A+' grade by the  . It has the potential to become one of the top universities in the country if public perception is improved. Karmalkar has a vision and he will definitely make the university proud," said  , geologist. 
 
