AHMEDABAD:   has abolished the   which enables students to continue their studies in the next semester even after failure in any subject. The decision was taken in the academic council meeting on Friday. 

 According to the new rules, any undergraduate student of Arts, Commerce, Science, Law and Education disciplines who fails in a single subject from semester 1 to semester 3 will not be allowed to enter the fifth semester unless all the subjects are cleared. 
 
 Similarly, a student who has not cleared the fourth semester will not be allowed to enroll for the sixth semester. The move will be implemented across 280 colleges and will affect close to 2.5 lakh students.
 
 A similar law was implemented for postgraduate students as well wherein students who do not clear the exams in all the subjects of first semester will not be allowed to enroll in the third semester and those failing even in a single subject in second semester would be barred from enrolling for the fourth semester. The decision is likely to affect a large number of students in commerce and arts faculties. This is because only 40% of students tend to pass, according to university data. Moreover, around 1,200 to 1,500 tend to fail in more than 15 subjects. Some students had a backlog of up to 20-22 subjects when they entered the fifth semester. “Owing to this, several students tend to quit studies failing to be able to manage coping with a large number of subjects in one go,” said one of the members.
 
 The varsity has also decided that the exams of semester 1-6 will be conducted parallely so that students who are failing in a certain subject of the previous semester may be able to appear for the respective exams and clear it. Around 50,000 students are likely to be affected with the decision.
 
 “The move will be implemented with effect from the next academic year. We had proposed disallowing students to enroll for the subsequent semester after failure in the initial two semesters itself,” said  , dean,  , who proposed the move.
 
