BENGALURU: Preparing for a series of  , students across   have increasingly become dependent on the integrated approach to learning.An entire day spent in the same place where one would learn the syllabus for PUC as well as for the entrance exams,   is definitely an in-thing now.

 Sirish Kumar is happy to see how relaxed his son is after joining an integrated PU course. A student of a PU college in north Bengaluru, his classes which start at 8.30am go on till 2pm.Then till 5pm, he would prepare for entrance exams which he would take up after II PU. “All the learning and revi sion for entrance exams are done in the class. My son comes back home by 5.30pm, does his homework, if any. He has ample time to spend with us,“ said Kumar.
 
 Integrated approach sees a collaboration of colleges with coaching centres. In some cases, PU colleges also set up their own in-house integrated approach to aid students better in preparing for competitive exams like the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE), National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET),   (CET), etc.
 
 At ALLEN Coaching Center, headquartered in Kota, Rajasthan, integration with schools and colleges has benefited over 400 students. “The system is yet to be accepted by a larger crowd. Parents have the perception that their children will be tasked with the regime.In fact, this helps students as it reduces travel time to coaching classes,“ Mahesh Yadav, head of the Bengaluru centre.
 
 Supriya M (name changed), a student of  , said: “Sometimes, I'm able to go to the coaching centre and prepare for five hours. While this is not a daily affair, my school gives me a day off during the week so I can spend time only for preparing for entrance tests. I'm able to focus on the PU syllabus as well as the exam preparations.“
 
 At Sindhi PU College, 150 students are currently enrolled for the integrated programme and 300 for non-integrated classes. Those joining the integrated classes are assessed by the coaching institute itself.
 
 “While it is time-saving, the system must ensure a thorough aptitude test for students so that one can measure their ability to crack the test. This will ensure students don't face pressure and get into depression,“ said B S Srikanta, principal, Sindhi College.
 
 Topical teaching is taken up by the faculty of Excel Academics who have around 10 integrated branches across Karnataka. There are 8,000 students. Kiran Kumar, programme coordinator, Excel Academics, said: “Through weekly assessments, we understand the areas where students find it hard,“ he added.
 
