NEW DELHI: Life changed for 34-year-old Hameedullah after he watched Ranveer Singh-starrer 'Ladies vs Ricky Bahl'. Inspired by Singh's Casanova-like character in the movie, the Afghan national, who was having a tough time making a living in Delhi, realised he could cash in on his good looks.

 Hameedullah allegedly began to dupe women by assuming new identities. Posing as an industrialist, a banker or a top corporate lawyer, he started frequenting high-end nightclubs and cruising social media sites looking for single and wealthy women.
 
 He recently befriended a US citizen and allegedly duped her of around Rs 60 lakh ($86,000), police said. However, the crime branch got hot on his trail after the woman grew suspicious and approached police. Joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav said he was pretending to be a banker called Faheem M K and was finally nabbed near Hyatt hotel in south Delhi on Saturday night. The cops used Hameedullah's Facebook profile details and call details to get more information about him. 
 
 “We had formed a team led by inspector Atul Tyagi to investigate the case. A trap was laid and the accused arrested when he arrived to extort money from the victim. The Audi and the mobile phone used in crime were seized,“ Yadav said.
 
 The police have seized jewellery and documents of a property which the accused bought with the money he made through con jobs. Cops suspect he duped more than a dozen women although the exact number will probably be known only after his detailed interrogation.
 
 The US citizen has furnished lot of details which the cops are going through.
 
 During his interrogation by a team led by DCP Ram Gopal Naik, Hameedullah said he held an Afghan passport and he had moved from Kabul to UAE in 1997 due to hostile conditions in his native country. He said he had arrived in In dia in July 2011 on a tourist visa, which he later converted into a medical visa. He lived in an apartment in Sector 128, Noida and had an office in Karol Bagh.
 
 “Hameedullah possesses excellent communication skills and has good command over several languages. He had made several Facebook profiles under different names and approached women on social sites,“ said Yadav. 
 
 Hameedullah has been charged with extortion (sections 385 and 387 of IPC), sexual assault (376), cheating (420) and criminal intimidation (506).
 
 
 
