NEW DELHI: The work of installing   cameras across the city—a major poll promise of the AAP government—is expected to begin from October. A budget of around Rs 250 crore has been set aside for procurement and installation of 1.5 lakh cameras in the first phase.

 PWD minister Satyendar Jain has written to all MLAs, asking them to identify spots in their constituencies where these cameras will be installed. “At present, we are looking at installing 2,000 CCTV cameras per constituency. The MLAs have been asked to identify spots in residential areas and market places where these can be set up. We have asked them to provide us with the lists by August 15,” Jain said. “Work of installing the cameras will start in October and it will take about four to six months to complete this phase.”
 
 PWD has been asked to complete all paperwork, including tendering, by October 1. A senior official said that the agency had been asked to work out the details of the   at the end of 2015, but after over a year of planning and tendering, it was finally decided that MLAs will identify the locations.
 
 Senior government officials said that the the project will be modelled on the work done in the CM’s constituency. “In the chief minister’s constituency, New Delhi, more than 1,000 CCTVs have been installed using the MLA local area development funds. The monitoring of these CCTVs has also been decentralised. In other constituencies, MLAs have got some number of CCTVs installed using MLA funds. Under this proposal, they can give us up to 2,000 locations where they would like the cameras to be set up...Our focus will be residential areas and market places since   has been getting CCTVs installed on main roads,” said an official.
 
 The cameras will be set up by PWD whereas their maintenance will be the responsibility of the vendor, which supplies them. The monitoring will be carried out by market associations or RWAs through decentralised control rooms. Footage will be kept for 30 days and whenever required, it will be shared with police.
 
 AAP had promised to install 10-15 lakh CCTVs in the city, and more in DTC buses. The project for buses is yet to kick off. Jain said that in the subsequent phases, “many more CCTVs will be installed”.
 
 
