BENGALURU:   reported a near flat revenue growth sequentially in constant currency terms in the fourth quarter and forecast a muted guidance for the current fiscal, highlighting the challenging macroeconomic environment globally that all IT companies are set to face.

 Shares of the company fell more than 2.5% in morning trade to Rs 941.40 after the weak guidance more than offset India's second largest IT service provider's decision to pay out $2 billion its shareholders through a combination of dividend and stock buyback.
 
 Infosys now expects to grow between 6.5% and 8.5% in constant currency terms, which discounts the effect of currency fluctuations, over which the companies have no control. On reported basis, the growth is projected at 6.1%-8.1%.
 
 Such tepid guidance contrasts sharply to the management's optimism last year when it initially expected to grow between 11.5% and 13.5% in constant currency only to be thwarted in the course of the fiscal through events such as Brexit, US President Donald Trump's protectionist policies, his move to curb the usage of H1B visa, and clients decision not to increase IT spending due to economic uncertainties.
 
 "Unanticipated execution challenges and distractions in a seasonally soft quarter affected our overall performance. At the same time, we continued to see many positive signs of our strategy execution; our software-led offerings continued to show strong momentum and client success, with continued adoption of Mana, our AI platform," chief executive   said.
 
 As Infosys struggled during the last fiscal by revising its guidance thrice, it expected at best to grow at 8%-9%. The company's annual revenue grew at 8.3%, at the mid-point of its projected range. But such lacklustre growth makes Sikka's 2021 target of hitting $20 billion in revenue, operating margins of 30% and $80,000 revenue per employee all the more difficult.
 
 For the reported quarter ended March 31, revenue grew 0.7% to $2.57 billion sequentially in reported terms, which translates into just $18 million incremental revenue. Net profit dropped 0.8% to $543 million and operating margins slipped 300 basis points to 24.7% as the rupee strengthened against the dollar. It expects margins of 23-25% for the fiscal.
 
 Banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) contributed 27.4% to the quarterly revenue compared to 27.2% last quarter while contribution from manufacturing & Hi-tech and retail & life sciences were 22.4% and 22.7%, down from 22.5% and 23.5% respectively.
 
 Infosys has struggled in recent quarters, after almost two years of good growth after Sikka took over in August 2014. In 2015-16, revenue rose 9.1% to $9.5 billion, but the same was 13.3% in constant currency. The company has found it difficult to replicate such growth rates, not only due to the tough environment but also because revenue from the digital business is yet to meaningfully impact the topline while the traditional business reels under pricing pressure.
 
 Infosys also said it appointed  , former head of  , as a co-chairman of its board. Venkatesan has been on the board as an independent director since April 2011. "Ravi will help me enhance the board engagement in supporting the management in execution of company's strategy", chairman R Seshasayee said.
 
 
