AHMEDABAD: Generally Shimla and Kullu-Manali are hot   for young couples. But an Ahmedabad-based organisation 'Vina Mulye Amulya Seva' (Priceless Service at Zero Cost) has arranged a ' ' tour for  . This tour will provide a platform to middle-aged singles to mingle with potential life partner. 

 In this unique tour, if some participants develop liking for fellow participants, they will get time period of 10 days to know and understand each other. Till now 35 middle-aged people have registered for this nine-day tour, the cost of which is Rs 10,000. It includes the cost of hotel stay, food and sight seeing in a luxury bus. To attract more participation from women, female participants will not be charged transportation tarrif, which will make the tour way cheaper for them. 
 
 Most of the participants are graduates and hail from middle class. Surprisingly, out of 35, two male participants are NRIs. An 85-year-old man and 72-year-old woman have also registered for the tour. The tour has received participants from not only Gujarat, but also Hyderabad and Bangaluru.
 
 It has been observed that widows, widowers or divorced middle-aged people who spend lonely life are prone to depression. Keeping this in mind, this organisation has been conducting various programmes to cheer up middle-aged singles.
 
 Natu Patel, organiser of this unique pre-wedding tour, said, "We had been organising one-day picnic for middle-aged singles for the last four years. The purpose was the same, to help middle-aged people find their life partners. We thought that if we can arrange tour for a week, the participants will get more time to understand their potential life partners. Therefore, this trip is arranged. Several more people will join us from Chandigarh." 
 
 Organizer Bharti Raval said, "This 10-day tour gives participants an opportunity to spend ample time with their potential life partner. This also helps them understand likes, dislikes, health condition and hobbies of their partners."
 
 
 
 
