MUMBAI: A Nalasopara builder,   (37), was stabbed to death by his second wife’s former husband at his posh 15th-floor Jogeshwari house on Saturday morning. The accused, Umar Shaikh, assaulted his former wife, Bismillah, too, injuring her grievously. The crime took place in the presence of Bismillah’s two nieces, said the police. Shaikh was arrested later in the evening from his relative’s house in Andheri.

 While Bhanpurwala died before he could be taken to a hospital, Bismillah (40), is undergoing treatment. Apart from Bismillah, Bhanpurwala is survived by his first wife and two school-going kids, who reside at a plush Mazgaon building. Interestingly, the police said that when Bhanpurwala’s first wife and the children were informed of his death, they were shocked as they were not aware of his second marriage. 
 
 The police said that prima facie, it seems that Shaikh was upset with Bismillah since they got divorced and her marriage to Bhanpurwala on February 15 annoyed him further. 
 
 According to the police, around 8am, Shaikh went to the couple’s Jogeshwari house in Irish Tower. He was armed with a knife and was wearing a burqa, bangles and lipstick. “As it was morning, security guards assumed that it was a domestic help. No sooner did Bismillah open the door, Shaikh assaulted her. Bismillah ran inside calling for help and locked herself in the bedroom. Hearing the commotion, Bhanpurwala came out to confront Shaikh, but the latter stabbed him three to four times in his stomach. Bismillah too came out but Shaikh assaulted her again,” said Arun Chavan, assistant commissioner of police.
 
 Shaikh developed cold feet when Bismillah’s neices, who witnessed the incident, started crying. He immediately removed the burqa, threw it away and ran down the staircase. “He did not wait for the lift as he feared he would be nabbed. He came downstairs and fled in an auto. He was caught in the act on the CCTV cameras installed in the building,” said the police. The police said that Shaikh wanted to kill both Bhanpurwala and Bismillah but his plan was scuttled due to the presence of the two children.
 
 Residents of the building said that they initially thought it was a robbery. “The couple had taken the flat on rent two months ago. We don’t know who they were and from where they came,” said a local.
 
 “Bismillah has given a statement to the police, She said that Shaikh was unemployed and was running his house from the rental of his Kalina property. She said hat he was upset that she had left their two kids with him,” said another officer. The police are interrogating Shaikh to ascertain why he committed the crime.
 
 
