MANGALURU: The clamour to hold kambala in coastal Karnataka grew louder here on Friday, with thousands of students, actors from the Tulu film industry and people’s representatives cutting across party lines forming a human chain in support of the buffalo race. 

 Agitators demanded a ban on   and said it hasn’t understood the difference between jallikattu in Tamil Nadu and kambala in coastal Karnataka. 
 
 The protest was led by the   and other organisations, including right-wing activists and students, supported it.
 
 Students boycotting their classes and gathered in large numbers to voice their support for kambala, which has been held over several centuries in the coastal belt.
 
 Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, Dakshina Kannada, told protesters, “Kambala is a traditional sport of Tulunadu and without understanding the difference between jalikattu and kambala, PeTA filed a petition to ban kambala. 
 
 It should know that bovines are not subjected to any cruelty in the sport. We should join hands and intensify our protest until the ban on kambala is lifted.”
 
 Mohiuddin Bava, MLA, said, "Kambala is a unifying sport that people of the district are closely attached to, without any barriers of religion, caste and creed. We’ll fight until there’s justice."
 
 Protest today
 
 Kambala fans in undivided Dakshina Kannada district will raise their voice against the ban by holding a massive rally at Moodbidri on Saturday. District Kambala Samiti, Sampradaya Kambala Samiti, Kambala Academy and Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti will hold a rally and take 200 pairs of buffaloes from Swaraj Maidan to Kadalakere Nisargadhama Kambala Track.
 
 K Abhayachandra Jain, former minister, MLA and kambala enthusiast, said a large number of sport lovers across two districts will take part. 
 
 He’s also president of the Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti. 
 
 He added that elaborate arrangements have been made and stressed that they will not defy the court order and will wait for a favourable decision.
 
 
