Silence prevailed at   on Tuesday evening as poet, writer and singer   took the stage to subsequently take the house-full audience on a journey into the magnificent world of mystical music. An expert, or rather a passionate lover of oral traditions of Bhakti, Sufi and Baul poetry of legends like Kabir,  ,  ,   the singer and storyteller transported the listeners to Malwa (Madhya Pradesh), Rajasthan, Kutch (Gujarat) and Bengal with the respective oral traditions from each of these regions. 
As Vipul went on from one tradition to another, people listened in rapt attention to take in as much as possible from the profound and timeless wisdom of the Sants and Sadhus. But it wasn’t all lecturing as Vipul knew how to threw in a joke or a witty anecdote everytime the discussion seemed a little too serious. For instance, when speaking about the qalam by Sant Kabir Das, Haman Hai Ishq Mastana. Vipul goes, “In this next song, Kabir talks about being drunk... getting drunk. And he might seem drunk (audience laughs).” Vipul then went on explain the lines: “Haman hai ishq mastana, Haman ko hoshiyari kya? Rahe azad ya jag mein, Haman duniya se yaari kya?” 
 Just as he elucidated, “Kabir here is talking about how he is not bothered about being clever, cool or worldly smart anymore and how he has severed his ties with the world.” Then moving on to explain the words: “Jo bichadde hain piyare se, Bhatakte dar badar phirte, Hamara yaar hai humme, Haman ko intazaari kya?” — which elicited “wah, wahs” from the audience. Cracking up to those wahs a little bit, Vipul explains, “Original mein jo damm hai, woh English translation mein dilute ho jayega. But what he is saying is that those who are in search of love, go door to door, but I have love within me.” This elicited more “wah, wahs” from the crowd. 
 As the night progressed, the conversations went deeper and the experience, more immersive. When the performance ended on the powerful rendition of Dekho Jag Bauraana, the audience struggled to snap back to reality as they lingered on at the venue, taking time to slowly shuffle their feet out and finally called it a night. 
 
