KOZHIKODE: Many universities in the state are planning to revise the norms of payment to college teachers for evaluation of  . The move comes in the wake of the crisis following the recent government order to recover Rs 39 crore paid as remuneration to teachers.

  syndicate examination standing committee is in the process of preparing a draft of the revised norms.
 
 Meanwhile, the boycott of evaluation duty by teachers has landed   in a new crisis. A syndicate subcommittee formed to resolve the issue has in principle decided to revise the rates paid for additional answer sheets evaluated.
 
 As per   rules, evaluation of answer sheets is part of college teachers’ responsibilities. The accountant general, citing the   decision, had raised audit objections saying that irregular payment of Rs 39 crore were made to teachers as remuneration for valuation of answer sheets, which were already assigned to them as part of the their duty. Taking cognizance of the AG's objection, the state government had recently issued orders to recover the amount while paying the third instalment of the UGC pay revision arrears.
 
 Teacher unions say that while government and aided school teachers are mandated to evaluate answer scripts of 30- 60 regular students as part of duty, but many teachers have been evaluating hundreds of answer papers every year.
 
 “There is a general agreement among teachers to evaluate the answer sheets of regular students free of cost. But teachers have to take up the evaluation of answer scripts of distance education students and students of self-financing colleges and for that they should be paid. We are considering revision of rates for valuation of additional answer sheets, taking into account the revised DA rates fixed by the government," M Sreekumar, convener of the syndicate examination standing committee of Kerala University, said.
 
 Calicut University syndicate member  , who is a member of the three-member syndicate committee formed in this regard, said the varsity would seek intervention of state government to resolve the impasse. “There is a general agreement that teachers have to be paid remuneration for extra answer sheets they evaluate in addition to their prescribed class strength. We are planning to revise the special allowance paid to the teachers for evaluation,” he added.
 
