To truly laugh, you must be able to take your pain and play with it — that’s what comedy legend   had once famously said. Youngsters in the city, too, live by this mantra. After all, if you want to survive in a place like Mumbai, which is notorious for its manic pace and constant hustle, the one thing you can’t do without is a sense of humour. On World Laughter Day, we spoke to a bunch of stand-up comedians on what it is about the city that makes them laugh. Their honest, witty revelations totally cracked us up. Read on...

 
 : I am from Uttar Pradesh. Whenever someone from there comes to live in Mumbai, they start house-hunting from Bandstand. But then, aukaad aastey aastey aapko Borivali ke us paar le jaati hai. So, I initially stayed in Mira Road. The problem with living there was that I couldn’t find a date. I guess all good things in life take a U-turn after Dahisar check naka!
 
 
 : We Mumbaikars know how to make things happen. We are forever innovating. You like schezwan? You like dosa? Here, take schezwan dosa! It’s funny that the rickshaw driver is the only guy who waits below your building kyunki ussey lamba bhaada chahiye. They take pride in their sense of direction and express strong annoyance when we question their judgement using Google maps. Mumbai’s monsoons bring out the worst in us. No one can pass off pants with muck as fashion, not even Sonam Kapoor. You can tell which side of the rickshaw a person sat on by noticing which half of their bum is wet. Our winters are basically summers just spelt differently. We have a total of three days of winter and every Mumbaikar will make the most of this opportunity and wear ‘winter wear’. Ever encountered a beggar who begged for money for his loved wife’s funeral rites? Sad no? No, not if you encounter the same beggar on a different day with the same situation. Either he is a really unfortunate soul to have lost his second wife shortly after he lost his first or he is maanglik or he is a con. I think I’d go with option three. I love how he doesn’t even bother changing his spot. I haven’t even seen motivational speakers display so much confidence! 
 
 
 : I came to Mumbai from Bengaluru and the rent is so high here. I went to a broker, who said a matchbox-sized flat will cost me 50K, and it made me laugh. Also, there are way too many people. You take a left, any left, and you find people. So, I decided to take a right instead, and I found more people. You can’t go straight because there is traffic, so you end up going back to your rented, over-expensive flat and marinate there. Then you get hungry at some point and call for food, which again, is not the strongest point of the city, yet it’s quite expensive, which makes me laugh.
 
 
  Mumbai cracks me up completely. Here, if you stop your car for more than 15 seconds, everybody just honks. Also, snob value scenes here are amazing. In Mumbai, everyone North of you is a wannabe and everyone South of you is a snob. People in Bandra think that everyone in Worli is a snob, while Khar people are wannabes. Khar folks think Kurla is wannabe, while Kurla thinks Chembur folks are snobbish. Chembur, meanwhile, has given up hope entirely. 
 
 
 : I’m from Delhi, and I’ve been living in Mumbai for the last few years. So, whenever someone from here tells me they have a Metro, I’m like, ‘No, you don’t have a Metro. What you have in Mumbai is a specimen of a Metro. Because a Metro connects the city. What we have here is a Metro which only connects Andheri and Andheri — East and West!’
 
 
 : Because Mumbai is so big, my transportation costs are dangerously close to my house rent! At the moment, just mulling over that fact makes me laugh.
 
 
 : Mumbai land rates are so high that if you get food delivered home, they give you a discount instead of charging you. In fact, here there are kitchens that call themselves actual restaurants!
 
 
