BENGALURU:   S was working in his ragi field in a Kolar village when it suddenly started raining on Thursday. He found shelter under a nearby tree but what happened next shocked him out of his wits. A bear lurking on the tree top pounced on him, severely injuring his face and damaging the socket in his right eye.

 The 58-year-old farmer from   village in Malur taluk, Kolar, underwent a five-hour surgery at   Hospital. "His face has suffered 50% damage. The right eye socket has been completely damaged, leading to loss of sight in the eye. Over 30-40% of the skin muscles and bones on the face have been lost due to the attack," said Dr Thomas Chandy, chairman and chief of orthopaedics, Hosmat Hospital. Dr Deepu N K, plastic sur geon at Hosmat who conducted the surgery, said soft tissues like muscles and tendons were repaired while the broken upper jaw and cheek bones were fixed using plates and screws. "He needs two or more major reconstructive surgeries. At present, he is in the ICU, his condition is stable and he has been given antibiotics, anti-rabies and anti-tetanus vaccines to prevent any infection."
 
 Krishnappa's son Murali K said the incident took place around 3pm on Thursday . "The bear attacked when my father went to a nearby tree to find cover from the rain. Alert farmers from adjacent fields managed to rescue him after driving off the bear by pelting stones. It is said that there are 40 to 50 bears in the nearby forest. But this is the first time that a bear has attacked a human being in the surrounding villages," said Murali.
 
 The family has complained to the forest department about the incident. Sorakayanahallli villagers, who have earlier seen leopards attacking over 20 sheep, are gripped by fear.
 
 'It was a mother bear'
 
 Forest department officials who held a spot inspection said Krishnappa was attacked by a mother bear. "Usually mother bears are ferocious if other animals are around. The department will compensate the patient. The incident took place in   range. A proposal has been sent to the government to declare it a wildlife sanctuary as it is home to pythons, leopards, bears and deers. The range is spread across to 19,000 acres in Malur and Bangarpet taluks," a senior officer said.
 
