Mumbai: The   has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for its   and officials, barring them from asking for “irrelevant” documents from   and then seeking Rs 20 lakh to Rs 1 crore as bribe to issue the mandatory building   (OC). Builders cannot allow occupancy without  . The civic body has also listed the documents civic engineers should examine and laid down a timeframe for submission of reports for issuing an OC. 

 Civic chief   issued the guidelines last Friday. The decision was prompted by allegations that the BMC’s building proposals department demands bribes to clear OCs. Mehta said, “The guidelines are aimed at bringing in transparency and clarity to speed up the OC approval process.”
 
 A senior civic official admitted to building proposal (BP) department engineers’ involvement in corrupt practices. He said that once a building is ready, a builder has no option but to get an OC. Engineers take advantage of the situation and demand hefty bribes. 
 
 Insiders said the BMC is putting a system in place as there is rampant corruption at the OC stage of permissions. An official said that during examination of a site, civic engineers demand random documents, which builders are unable to produce. They delay the process in this manner and ask for bribes. Now, the SOP has specified the documents they need to examine for approving an OC.
 
 Recently, TOI reported that developers from the Wadala-Matunga-Dadar belt had alleged that BMC engineers were delaying their OCs on some pretext or the other and demanding heavy bribes. The SOP puts the onus on builders to produce a self-inspection report. The job of civic engineers is to scrutinize the report and compare it with the constructed structure and the approved building plan.
 
 Experts raised doubts over the new SOP that provides for part OC to incomplete buildings. Shirish Sukhatme of PEATA (Practicing Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association) said there is a “high chance” that builders might manipulate the condition. He said, “It is strange that the civic authority has allowed part OC to incomplete buildings. There is a very high chance that builders would manipulate it to make illegal changes after obtaining a part OC.”
 
 
