 (South 24-Parganas): An unbeaten innings of 26 years hangs heavy on 70-year-old  ,  , in the municipal polls at Pujali — a small town on the bank of the  , 27km from Taratalla.

 Haq’s stint as chairman could be one reason for the factional feud within Trinamool that has come out in the open on several occasions. The bickering and allegations of corruption are a given in this 16-ward municipality. For instance, Haq and Amirul Sapui, his arch-rival, chose separate dates to make their loyalists file nomination papers, making it apparent that the fight this time isn’t only Trinamool versus others — it is also a battle within.
 
 The feud was on display during Abhishek Banerjee’s campaign on Saturday. Fazlur was not on stage with Abhishek. “I was down with high fever that day. I did meet our leader but could not attend his meeting,” said Fazlur. Amirul said: “Yes, there are differences between the chairman and myself. He joined Trinamool from Congress. I began my career in Trinamool itself.”
 
 All these have come as a bonus to BJP that has, for the first time, fielded candidates in all 16 wards in this mixed locality to exploit anti-incumbency sentiment. Irregular drinking water supply, inadequate connectivity, appalling sewer facilities and the muck-filled Acchipur Ghat are some of the concern areas. Though a greenhorn in the locality, residents believe the saffron party may spring a surprise in a couple of wards in this erstwhile Congress bastion that later switched to Trinamool.
 
 Congress hasn’t been able to field candidates in more than seven wards, leaving three to CPM. Nagarik Mancha candidates are putting up a fight in the remaining four wards, with Congress and CPM throwing their weight behind the Mancha. Trinamool and BJP are leaving nothing to chance at Pujali. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and others have been campaigning vigorously, holding roadshows and public meetings. “We should win nine of the 16 wards,” said BJP South 24-Parganas president Abhijit Das.
 
 As for CPM, it had trailed in this municipal area by 1,300 votes during the 2016 assembly polls, with a 1,000-vote gap in a single ward. “We have indications that the ruling party won’t allow peaceful voting. Otherwise, we stand a chance,” said CPM South 24-Parganas secretary Shamik Lahiri.
 
 Many residents do not bank on CPM and Congress. Said Samirul Gazi, a voter in ward 6: “CPM and Congress have a pale presence in this election. Trinamool will win but BJP is putting up a tough fight and will win in a good number of wards. People also harbour grievances against the current chairman for failing to develop the township uniformly.”
 
 
