NEW DELHI: Kite flyers would not have access to lethal glass-coated cotton or synthetic strings, commonly known as “Chinese manjha”, in the coming festivals with the   refusing on Friday to lift the ban on it.

 The   had on December 14 imposed an interim nationwide ban on use of glass-coated ‘manjha’ for flying kites saying the sharp string poses danger to humans, animals and birds. The green panel said the ban order would apply on all nylon, synthetic and cotton ‘manjha’ coated with glass.
 
 Challenging the Tribunal’s order, ‘manjha’ traders had approached the Supreme Court saying it was passed without considering all aspects and they would be forced to shut down their business which had been going on for decades. They pleaded for a stay on the interim order. A bench of Madan B Lokur and Prafulla C Pant, however, said there was nothing wrong in the interim order passed by the Tribunal. The court said glass-coated ‘majha’ was really “bad” while refusing to interfere with the NGT order. 
 
 ‘Manjha’ posed a grave threat to humans and animals, causing a a number of deaths every year. In order to increase the chances of being able to cut as many kites as possible, kite strings are made deliberately sharp with churned glass, metals and other materials to cut through the strings of other flyers. 
 
 Animal rights body, People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), contended that more than 50 people and countless birds had died in the last two years due to the “killer manjha” and sought a ban on it. Accepting its plea, the Tribunal had passed the order.
 
 “Due to ‘manjha’ being coated with glass, metals and other sharp material, these strings act as good conductors of electricity, increasing the probability of detached manjha strings stuck in power lines, electrocuting kite flyers and passers-by coming into contact with these strings,” PETA had said.
 
 On January 21 last year, Cuttack district administration banned sale and use of plastic and ‘manjha’ strings. 
 
 In December 2009, the Gujarat government had prohibited use of plastic, synthetic or other materials like iron powder and glass powder for ‘manjha’.
 
 In January 2011, the Mumbai Police banned sale of glass-coated strings used for flying kites. The order said any trader who violated the ban can face action and jailed for a month besides being fined Rs 200.
 
 
