BENGALURU: This year, city hospitals have been witnessing a steep rise in cases of a dengue-like viral fever, especially among children. Doctors have exhorted parents to be more vigilant. Viral fever strains have mutated over time making it difficult for doctors to treat them.

 There are viruses that are benign but can trigger macrophage activation syndrome, which is a typical feature of the dengue virus. Across the city, there has been a spurt in the number of such patients with such fever and, in some cases, a rapid drop in platelet count has been noticed.
 
 Dr Shalini Joshi, consultant, internal medicine,  , said, "This is not the first time that people are being diagnosed with viral fever that imitates the symptoms of dengue. This fever can only be diagnosed through a careful blood test. I won't say that it is a new strain but, over the years, the number of such cases has gone up as it is very different from the influenza virus that generally attacks the upper respiratory system."
 
 The virus attack is quite common among children and even government hospitals like the   and   are witnessing a rise in the number of such cases.Most blood testing centres in the city are overloaded with blood samples as, to start the first line of treatment, the doctors need a proper blood report to distinguish the viral fever from dengue.
 
 Raghu BS, a paediatrician with the state government, said, "This viral attack is a cause of worry especially during the dengue season.Regular blood tests are needed in some cases because, once the patient acquires the viral fever, the immunity is lowered and they are left exposed to other kind of diseases, especially in this season. Children are most vulnerable and hence parents should be more careful with diet and encourage them to drink ample amount of water."
 
 Another cause of concern for the doctors in the city is the rise in cases of scrub typhus, a bacterial infesta tion which can be fatal. The disease has been on the rise for the last two months and triggers fever in both children and adults while displaying dengue-like symptoms. The disease is caused due to bacteria known as Orientia tsutsugamushi that lives primarily in mites.The infection is called scrub typhus because it generally occurs after exposure to areas with secondary (scrub) vegetation.
 
 According to   reports, many blood samples which have been received from different parts of the state have tested positive for scrub typhus. Humans are infected accidentally, usually during rainy season through mite bites.
 
