Hyderabad: With an agreement yet to be reached between the promoters of   and its investors, the impasse at the Vijayawada-based low-cost carrier continued through the weekend as a result of which the airline has stopped taking bookings and extended its 'temporary suspension' of operations till Thursday. Air Costa, which is owned by the LEPL group, had suspended operations last week due to financial issues with its aircraft lessor GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS). Due to non-payment of dues, GECAS impounded Air Costa's two Embraer aircraft, which are now parked at Hyderabad airport. 

 "Air Costa bookings have also been stopped for now...we took this decision as we do not want passengers to suffer and it will be unethical on our part to take bookings when we do not have clarity. 
 
 The flights have been suspended till Thursday. As I had earlier said, due to the weekend...certain formalities are underway and the negotiations are on. On Monday (March 6), the clear picture will emerge and we will announce the day of resuming operations," Kavi Chaurasia, vice-president (marketing and brand communication), Air Costa, told TOI. He also confirmed that January and February salaries have not been paid to employees. "The base slab salaries for January have been paid," he added. It is learnt that promoters are trying to clear the due salaries this week. Last week, the airline's two E190 (112 seats) jets, that it was using to operate 16 daily flights to eight destinations -Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Jaipur, Chennai, Hyderabad and Tirupati, were grounded. In August 2016 too, Air Costa had temporarily suspended operations due to issues with its lessor. So far, Air Costa has been funded by its promoters, who during the launch, had indicated that they will be investing $100 million (aroundRs 600 crore) in the airline. The airline's promoter, the LEPL Group, has diversified interests in real estate, infrastructure development, hospitality, renewable energy and health sectors
 
 
