MUMBAI: The last leg of the state government’s ambitious   has hit a roadblock. While the government has successfully completed installation of 4,717   across 1,510 locations in the city, as part of the project they had requested 102 private institutions to share their feeds with the police to bridge gaps in surveillance.

 The Mumbai   project was floated after the 26/11 terror attacks and envisaged surveillance at sensitive spots and a faster response due to real-time streaming. Under the project, a London and New York-style collaborative framework was to be created between private entities and government agencies to enable the authorities to receive video feed from entities like housing societies, public offices, shops, restaurants, hotels or malls that are sensitive from the security point of view. 
 
 For this purpose, the state home department sent letters to 102 such institutes, but there has been resistance from these institutions for privacy reasons.
 
 “Even the Pradhan committee report mentions making the CCTV network seamless by merging the feed of private institutions as well,” said a senior official from the state home department. But not many private institutions have shown interest. “Many of them feel that the feed will be monitored 24x7 and are hence not comfortable sharing the feed for privacy-related concerns. We will try to convince them as this is only voluntary and we can’t force anyone,” said another official. A meeting was convened by additional chief secretary Sudhir Srivastava on Monday. 
 
 “It has been decided to re-approach these institutions and explain to them that the feed will be taken only on a need-to-know basis and with the consent of the management of the private institutions. Fresh attempts will be made to convince them to connect their feed with ours,” said another official. The deadline to complete the project has been set at March-end.
 
 This is not the first time that the state government has had such an experience with private parties over sharing of CCTV feed. In Pune, for instance, 40 institutions were approached but of those only the famous Dagdusheth Ganpati Temple came forward to share its CCTV feed.
 
 “Some other spots were later identified and convinced to merge their feeds. The same thing would be done in Mumbai too if the original 102 institutions don’t agree. This will help complete the project but will not be as effective as the locations would have to be changed,” said the official. 
 
 
