HYDERABAD: A Rs 100-crore plan to protect and rejuvenate lakes and tanks in the state has been prepared by officials. Discussions regarding the plan were taken up at a high-level meeting attended by   K T Rama Rao and irrigation minister  .

 In the first phase, fencing will be erected for 30 lakes and tanks in the city. One lake in every municipality and district headquarters will be identified and developed as well.
 
 Officials of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB),   ( ), and the state tourism department will form a committee to take measures to protect lakes.
 
 One of the most important decisions taken at the meeting was to fix Full Tank Levels (FTLs) of all the water bodies. It was also decided to pursue more vigorously cases of encroachment of lakes. It was said that as some people had got a court stay on the fixing of FTL for lakes, this could not be done by the government. Principal secretaries of various department have been asked to meet the Chief Justice of the High Court to explain the situation.
 
 Minister   asked officials to examine the possibility of taking cases of illegal constructions that have come up on lake beds with the tribunal to be set up to deal with illegal buildings and deviation in building plans. He said a drive would be conducted for the protection of lakes in the city. He said the government would take measures to protect lakes as per High Court directions.
 
 Every lake and tank in the city will have a nodal officer who will develop it. At the meet, ministers urged officials themselves to come forward to be appointed as nodal officers.
 
 Another important decision that was taken was to prevent sewage and effluents from being let into the water bodies. The ministers asked the water board to set up sewerage treatment plants. Latest technologies will be adopted in preserving the lakes.
 
 Irrigation minister Harish Rao said just as RsMission Kakatiya' had been made successful in the district, the initiative to protect and preserve lakes would also be made a success here. He said the move would have the complete cooperation of the irrigation department which will actively support the cause.
 
