MUMBAI: The state forensic department is in talks with a Pune-based technology company to create a   of offenders for Maharashtra through a public-private partnership, reports Nitasha Natu. Once a memorandum of understanding is inked, the first-of-its-kind database will be set up.

 A database stores DNA profiles of individuals and enables searching and comparing of DNA samples collected from a crime scene against stored profiles. A positive match can be used as key evidence in criminal investigations. The UK had the world's first national DNA database, which in 2010 contained over 5 million people's DNA profiles--mostly suspects in investigations or convicted of crimes. The state forensic department, in a move that is expected to boost investigations into crimes, is planning a DNA database of offenders.
 
 DG (legal and technical) S P S Yadav confirmed the plan to join hands with a Pune tech firm to create a DNA database, subject to the MoU. The plan is to upload reports of DNA analysis done as part of probes into crime--in the past, present and in future--across the state.
 
 “A DNA database would be most beneficial in cases involving repeat offenders. If an individual commits a crime in one city and flees to another, the database can still nail him. At present, there is no proper system to record the bio of an individual against the DNA sample analysed during the probe of a criminal offence. In a highly populated country like India, a national database could help prevent frauds such as election ID or Aadhaar card frauds,“ said a forensic department official.
 
 DNA analysis helps accurately ascertain the identity of a person from his DNA sample (such as hair, blood, or a cheek swab) and can establish biological relationships between individuals. A prominent case with the forensic laboratory in Kalina in recent times was the Sheena Bora murder. A DNA report of bones retrieved from a Raigad forest established that they belonged to a female child of media executive Indrani Mukerjea, a prime accused in the murder case. It showed she shared DNA with her brother, Mikhail.
 
 “The DFSL (Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories) is set to get a new machine called Rapid which will provide DNA analysis reports in three hours. Maharashtra will be the first state to use the machine, which costs around Rs 3 crore.The results will be computergenerated and very accurate. At present, analysing one sample takes around two to three days,“ said Krishna Kulkarni, director, DFSL. Maharashtra is the only state to have five DNA labs, at Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and Nagpur.
 
 “We are planning to create an entire platform for the state forensic department depending on their requirements. Nobody except the forensic depatment staff and criminal investigators will be given access. Our proposal has crossed two levels of scrutiny,“ said Abhay Jere, associate vice-president of the Pune-based technology company. “In future, we are hoping other states would adopt the same model and a pan-India database can be created.“
 
 Two months ago, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that it was preparing to finalise afresh version of the DNA Fingerprinting Bill, a draft of which was ready in 2015 but could not be introduced in Parliament.The Law Commission released a revised draft of the Bill, now called the DNA Based Technology (Use and Regulation) Bill, 2017 with important changes. The proposed law seeks to establish regulatory institutions and standards for DNA testing, and supervise the activities of all laboratories authorised to carry out such tests. But there are certain groups opposed to the Bill as there is a great risk of information from DNA analysis being misused.
 
