MUMBAI: The ambitious Juhu   of residents of the area has hit a roadblock thanks to silt which has piled up outside the Irlah nullah. The silt, removed from the drain, has been lying unattended to.

 As part of the plan, citizens had been working on the landscape of the area besides the nullah, with horticulture work being in progress. The project is funded by  , MP, lyricist and screenwriter. There are plans to set up a cycling and jogging track besides the nullah. But these plans have taken a major hit with BMC’s pre-monsoon nullah-cleaning work in progress. Filmmaker   from Save Open Spaces (SOS),  , one of those working on the vision plan, said, “We had laid a concrete stretch and tiling was to begin soon. We had created the path so that there is free movement of trucks, which are going in and out due to the work. We understand that the silt needs to be removed from the nullah, but we have seen this piled up besides it (nullah) for days together. We are afraid that if rains hit the city early, the silt piled up will flow onto what we have worked so hard to get done.”
 
 Samarth Das, from P K Das and Associates, the architect of the Juhu plan, said they have worked really hard on a dynamic landscape design. “The entire project has gone on hold with the silt lying there unattended. This is proving to be disruptive as it is making it difficult for labourers at the site as well those carrying out landscaping. Our aim was to complete the horticulture and electrical work before the monsoon, but this looks unlikely as the silt is yet to be taken away.”
 
 BMC said it cannot immediately transport the silt. “We need it to get dried up before we transport it,” said a senior official. 
 
 TOI had recently reported about how BMC was struggling to appoint contractors for transportation of silt dredged mainly from minor drains. The civic body recently floated tenders for transportation of silt to dumping grounds from minor nullahs, as it did not receive any response for an integrated contract that included desilting.
 
