CHENNAI: 
 

 
 
 We have unique policies that support employees at each stage. From the obvious ones like maternity and paternity to sabbaticals, employees know that they can reply on Flipkart to back them up.
 
 It’s not really the policies that make the difference as much as the human experience. On their first day at office, employees are picked up by chauffeur-driven cars and sent on a treasure hunt to familiarize themselves with the office. 
 
 When we decide on the holiday calendar each year, we take an employee vote. Each floor in our office is based on a theme selected by employees and they design it themselves. For example, one of our floors is sports themed with conference rooms named after cricket players. Another floor is designed around music. The point is that they feel at home when they come to work.
 
 We have an open and transparent culture which transcends across levels. Flip out Friday is our open house meet when all employees get access to senior management. They can ask any question and senior folks answer. It’s about openness. When you see the CEO sitting on a desk similar to yours, it cuts barriers at multiple levels.
 
 
 
 The work here is impactful. Employees feel empowered and take ownership for what they work on. It is a gratifying feeling because you know your work is impacting several millions. All Flipsters know that we are a customer focussed company. It is a high risk and high action environment and we encourage audacious thinking. Any effort towards disruptive solutions is welcome.
 
 
 
 Honestly, Flipkart in the news doesn’t impact employees. They are getting the best benefits. They are offered a challenging environment where the focus lies in solving real problems. We have not witnessed impact on employee morale. For the employee, it is one questions – Am I creating impact. The answer is Yes and that motivates them to work and deliver the best.
 
 
 
 
 Our focus now is on unique talent. We are on the hunt for professionals with skills that can ride the next wave of disruption. Senior level engineers and data science specialists are on the immediate radar.
 
