CHANDIGARH: Even though less than a week is left for the new academic session to begin, there is great shortage of   in the market, especially, for classes IX to XII which are used by all government schools and most of the other schools in Chandigarh and Tricity. For junior classes VI to VIII too, many schools have to wait for some   books, following the shortage.

 A salesperson from a Sector 19-based book store, when asked about availability of NCERT books for class IX and XI said that those will be available in April. In some other book stores in Sector 22, there was a shortage of certain books for classes XI and XII. Rakesh Puri, one of the book store owners in Sector 22, said, “ There is a little shortage of English book for class IX while other books are well stocked.” Three bookshops, two in Sector 40 and one in Sector 35, too had shortage of books, mainly the Humanities section, which were expected to come by next week.
 
 As a result, parents are shuttling between different stores to collect complete set of books. A parent, Kuldeep Negi, said, “I have checked almost five stores in Chandigarh, but all books are not available. I have now checked over phone that some store in   has all books in stock, so I will check there on Wednesday.”
 
 As per school heads, it is an every year practice that NCERT books are late. A B S Sidhu, director principal of Saupin’s School in Sector 35, said, “NCERT books are usually late. I have learned that different stores have different titles available.”
 
 Education department too is yet to get books from NCERT for classes I to VIII under   (SSA). Officials said that NCERT has given them March 29 as the date to collect books. SSA coordinators said, “Our representative person will go on Wednesday for taking the books. We will know then if all books are provided or not. By Thursday, we will have the books which will be distributed as soon as the schools reopen.”
 
 This year the order for books was given late to NCERT following lack of budget from ministry of human resource development (MHRD). TOI had reported that the second instalment under SSA from   was not given and the department had to take loan in January to give salaries and order for books to NCERT. The books for classes I to VIII cost Rs 2.7 crores. TOI had reported that order for the same is to be placed with NCERT in November or December, but this year it was given in January as NCERT asks for advance payment.
 
 (
 )
 
