Mumbai: A day after Cyrus Mistry’s legal challenge against   following his ouster from the company board was all but rejected by the   ( ), his counsel sought to regain lost ground by seeking a waiver which would enable the case to continue being heard.

 Senior counsel C A Sundaram appearing for firms representing Mistry — Cyrus Investments and   — started arguments by reading from Monday’s NCLT order in which the bench headed by BSV Prakash Kumar has described Tata Sons as a “household name’’ and an “untiring provider’’. Sundaram said since the petition raises issues relating to such a company which is a household name, a waiver would be “of utmost importance.’’
 
 Mistry’s petition says Tata Sons has indulged in acts of mismanagement and curbed rights of minority shareholders. Senior counsel Janak Dwarkadas, appearing for Mistry who is not directly a petitioner in the case, said once NCLT finds there is a “case made out’’, it can waive the requirement of a minimum 10% stake needed to approach the NCLT.
 
 He said the NCLT order records allegations against Tata Sons, including sudden removal of Mistry as chairman in October, 2016 and the losses incurred by Tata Motors due to Ratan Tata’s proposal to launch Tata Nano cars. Sundaram said all that is required to grant waiver is to see that the petitioner is an interested party and that it is a bona fide case, which in this case it is.
 
 NCLT judges questioned Sundaram on the grounds for seeking a waiver. He broadly listed four scenarios — when issues being raised involve interest of public, a class of shareholders, company’s interest and when articles of association are violated. Sundaram said, “There is no one who has 10% of issued share capital in Tata Sons’’ but would it mean no shareholder can ever allege mismanagement.
 
 The NCLT in its order on Monday had accepted Tata Sons’ counsel A M Singhvi’s arguments that the Mistry petition was not maintainable in law since the petitioning firms lacked the requisite 10% of issued share capital that legally entitles them to drag Tata Sons to court.
 
 It said that, “When language of a section is clear, there is no need to apply doctrine of purposive interpretation, to inflect…The only precedent applicable is the one that says issued share capital means equity plus preference.’’
 
 The Mistry camp has said its 18 % equity shares qualified it to file the petition. But Tata Sons had pointed out that issued share capital included preference shares and that Mistry firms thus had only 2.17%, way short of the minimum 10 percent. The NCLT had agreed. Tata Sons counsel Singhvi will now argue on March 17 to oppose the grant of waiver.
 
 Since the filing of its petition last December, the Mistry camp has no got a single order in its favour out of four orders passed so far.
 
 
