CHENNAI: As seasoned politicians and greenhorns canvass in R K Nagar ahead of the April 12 bypoll, meme factories are working overtime - both to promote and mock them.

 After a relative lull in sharing of political content on social media after the Koovathur episode in February, there has been a spike in activity in the last ten days. Users from across Tamil Nadu are posting and sharing memes, mainly on WhatsApp, Facebook and YouTube, on the RK Nagar poll.
 
 Users 'embellish' TV news clips of candidates campaigning in R K Nagar, their poll promises and speeches with comedy scenes from Tamil movies, songs and voiceovers that lampoon the candidate or the party. Some videos focus on poll promises that seem exaggerated, compared to the current status of infrastructure in the constituency.
 
 From AIADMK (Amma) candidate T T V Dhinakaran's hat symbol, to AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) candidate E Madhusudhanan's electric pole symbol, poll promises to build houses for voters to Deepa's claims on how the people of R K Nagar welcomed her, to BJP leaders campaigning on a boat in the empty sea and their comments at press meets - no one is spared.
 
 The meme creators add appropriate visuals, songs and movie clips and the end result is, more often than not, hilarious. Unedited videos shot on mobile phones - like of the hostile reception to C R Saraswathi, who was campaigning for Dhinakaran a few days ago, are being shared on social media.
 
 The CPM candidate for the R K Nagar bypoll, R Loganathan, says his team has created a Facebook page in his name for the election, and that he is active on social media. He says he has seen the recent social media messages and memes, but they aren't all negative. "People are sharing memes which are about the issues faced by the R K Nagar voters, and the solutions," he says, adding that his friends and relatives in R K Nagar have seen posts about his campaign - which they have received from other users and not directly from him.
 
 R S Rajesh, from Team AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) says people in R K Nagar use WhatsApp more than Facebook or Twitter, and have been sharing poll-related messages.
 
 These memes may, however, serve more to entertain rather than affect voters' decisions on whom to back on polling day. 
 
 
