KOCHI: The   is taking up a 'risk' by providing a huge platform for the artists according to  , who believes that art is a risk -  , social and even aesthetic risk. 

 "Being a child who wants to be an artist here is difficult. We have to be fearless, absolutely fearless and take risks. If one percent of us are talented, even just one per cent out of the 1.3 billion that we are, what kind of number is that? If we can't give opportunity to that one per cent, we are at loss heavily. As a country we have lost. Whatever we do, including the Biennale Foundation, is supporting and celebrating that spirit of risk-taking, the excitement of possibility and encourage activities on an even bigger-scale," said Kapoor, an iconic British-Indian sculptor and a participating artist in the 2014 Kochi-Muziris Biennale on Wednesday during his visit to the third edition of the KMB.
 
 He said that it is quite symbolic that the president thought it to be important enough to come down here to have a look it and to talk about it. "It means that there has been a ripple of change already," Kapoor said.
 
 Commenting on the state of art schools in the country, Kapoor said: "There is no question that art schools in India are under a lot of pressure - economically and politically. The students are the future and we have to support and encourage them to be as radical in their art as possible. Generally, universities are places of protest, that's how things should be. It's been happening Delhi, I have been keeping notes. And it's fantastic, because it is young people saying, "We won't accept the world as it is. We want it to be different. We don't want casteism. We don't want inequality'. That's what young people are there to do. If they don't do it who else will."
 
 Kapoor said it is important that we note that it is not just politicians alone who have the voice to make a social change, but artists as well. He made this when asked about a one million dollar donation he made to Syrian refugees.
 
 "Artists also can make a movement, and stand for a cause. Not just can, but I think it is important that we do," he said.
 
 
