KANPUR/GREATER NOIDA: Parents of a 21-year-old engineering student who allegedly committed suicide at home in   on Thursday night have claimed he was constantly harassed by senior students at his   institute.

 Mahendra Pratap Singh was a first-year student of computer science engineering at Galgotia's College of Engineering and Technology in Greater Noida. According to the university, he had not been allowed to appear for secondterm examinations as he had not attended classes since January .
 
 Etawah SP (crime) Jitendra Srivastava said an investigation into the student's death is under way. “We have not yet received any complaint that the boy took the extreme step owing to harsh behaviour of his seniors at the institute. We are treating it as a case of suicide. No suicide note has been recovered. If his parents complain against students or faculty , we will initiate investigation,“ he said. 
 
 Mahendra went to sleep in his mother's room on Thursday night, but around midnight, went to his room where he apparently hanged himself from the ceiling fan.
 
 “We had got him admitted to Galgotia's College of Engineering and Technology in 2016. He had come home for Dussehra. Our child had called us several times and told us the atmosphere of college was not conducive and he could not stay there any more. On a few occasions, we had to send our elder son to bring him home,“ said his mother Sadhna Singh.
 
 His father Awadh Pratap Singh, a subedar in the Army , and a resident of Vijaynagar in Etawah, told TOI, “He always complained to us that his seniors used to rag and make fun of him.“
 
 However, Galgotias University denied the allegations of harassment made by Mahendra's parents, pointing out that the student was not a hosteller so it could not be a case of ragging.
 
 The university said he had not attended classes from January 2017. It claimed that Mahendra had low attendance (44%) and was debarred from appearing in second-semester exams. 
 
 “He has not turned up for the classes since January 2017 and was debarred from second-term exams. We organise examinations for debarred students in August, but the student did not fill up the form for the same. The university never received any complaint from the student,“ vice-chancellor Renu Luthra told TOI.
 
