 River, once the lifeline of Hyderabad, has over the decades degraded into a wide open sewer. But it may yet regain its glory. The Telangana government Gosha has drawn up a plan to convert the banks of the river, along its 40km stretch through the city, into a   for people.

 The inspiration for the Musi Revitalisation Project-as it is titled--comes from the Sabarmati Riverfront Development in Ahmedabad.
 
 To begin with, the   (HMDA) has been tasked to show what can be in store for the people of the city by taking up the development of a one-km stretch on either bank of Musi at the Esa-Musa River confluence in the eastern part of Hyderabad at Bapughat, next to the Artillery Centre and close to the ramparts of the historic Golconda Fort.
 
 “The pilot project will see the development of about 60 acres as a recreational zone on public-private partnership (PPP). We will landscape banks, build an amphitheater and develop a jogging track.Further, we also intend to introduce boating, set up food courts and a children's play area,“ said T Chiranjeevulu, metropolitan commissioner, HMDA. A proposal to set up guest accommodations for people to stay overnight and enjoy the riverfront is part of the blueprint.
 
 But even as plans gather pace for developments at Bapughat, work worth Rs 6.5 crore on a 2.5km stretch at Nagole at the river's other end has already been taken up by the HMDA. “Work on landscaping and creating pathways is on at Uppal Bhagat at Nagole and will be completed by the end of January,“ HMDA chief engineer BLN Reddy says.
 
 Officials from the municipal administration department say that though a detailed project report for the riverfront's development from Bapughat to Nagole was prepared a few years ago, it gathered dust due to a paucity of funds.
 
 “The project is estimated to cost Rs 2,900 crore. The state government, a couple of years ago, sought financial assistance under the National River Conservation Plan, but nothing happened. The government is now planning to tap into funds available under the Green Climate Fund,“ says a senior official from the department.
 
 The project has been divided into three precincts: ecological, heritage and metropolitan. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cor poration (GHMC) will be tasked with developing the heritage precinct, the HMDA will be in charge of developing the metropolitan and ecological precincts. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Wa ter Supply and Sewerage Board has been tasked with the diversion of nullahs and also the construction of sewage treatment plants.
 
 While welcoming the state government's initia tive, the convener of the Forum for Sustainable Environment, S Jeevananda Reddy, says the entire stretch of the riverfront should not be commercialized as that would leads to pollution. “Municipal authorities should ensure that Musi's water level is maintained throughout the year. They should not allow any untreated or partially treated sewage into the river."
 
