Tanu ( ) calls a helper to take her outfit to the fitting rooms, but the helper comes and says that she had come to their store few months back with a man and had bought a dress from there. She says this in front of Pragya ( ) and Abhi ( ). When Tanu says that she has mistaken her for someone else, the helper says that she is sure of it that it was her.
 
  Pragya interrupts their conversation and asks the helper if she is sure that it was Tanu only, whom she had met. She also reveals that the man who had accompanied Tanu to their store has come again a lot of times post that day. Tanu shouts at her and Abhi asks her not to yell at the poor girl. When Tanu doesn't agree to what she is saying, the salesgirl takes them to the other side of the store where that man is busy shopping for himself. It turns out that Nikhil is at the store shopping for himself and is shocked to see Tanu, Abhi and Pragya. When Abhi asks him if he knows Tanu, he refuses, but Alia comes in and says that he is a dear friend to them.
  
  Alia cooks up a story and Abhi seems quite convinced with it. She also invites Nikhil to Pragya and Purab's engagement. Nikhil is excited to hear that after which he makes his sarcastic remarks and congratulates Pragya.
  
  Purab comes to Mehra house and comes to know that Abhi has gone out with Alia, Pragya and Tanu. Dadi comes and tells him that they have all gone out shopping.
  
  
 
  
  Meanwhile, Tanu goes to try her outfit and asks Alia to send Abhi inside and then get Pragya near the trial room to make her feel jealous. Pragya comes to the trial rooms and sees Tanu pull Abhi inside her trial room. Tanu asks Abhi to close her zip, and when he starts doing him, he gets flashbacks of the past and stops. He yells at Tanu to not try it if it's tight on her and let Pragya try it.
  
  Abhi is surprised to see a formal men's suit in Pragya's hands, she tells her that it's for him and Abhi likes it. He tries on the suit and goes outside to show it to Pragya.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates.   airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
