PUNE: Poor   is forcing labourers and other working class members to use illegal means of transport in Hadapsar and its suburbs. 

 The traffic branch of the   has launched a special drive against such vehicles on   after the committee meeting in Hadapsar ward office last week raked up the problem.
 
 The civic body’s co-pted member Sagar Raje-Bhosale said a large number of autorickshaws were plying without documents and six seaters that are not permitted to enter the city’s limits were seen creating severe nuisance in Mundhwa, Hadapsar, Sasanenagar, Sayyednagar, Mohammadwadi and other areas. 
 
 He said these scrapped autorickshaws were used for illegally ferrying passengers for small sums because of lack of public transport in Hadapsar and the fringe areas. Moreover, minor boys were making use of such vehicles for illegal activities like consuming ganja, a banned substance under the Narcotics Substance Psychotropic Substances Act.
 
 The illegal vehicles were creating traffic congestion at one-ways and Sasanenagar railway crossing gate, he said. He sought strict action against them.
 
 Hadapsar resident Avinash Kamble said, “The services offered by illegal vehicles are cheaper than PMPML buses. We stay in the fringe areas and travelling has always been a problem because we don’t have two- or four-wheelers. We have time and again raised the issue of starting public transport in fringe areas, but all our pleas have fallen on deaf ears. We have no other choice but to use such transport.”
 
 Local corporator and president of the ward committee Faroque Inamdar said ferrying passengers in illegal vehicles increases the chances of accidents and if there are mishaps, it becomes difficult for victims to claim insurance if the vehicles are not registered and insured.
 
 Inamdar appealed to inspector Smita Jadhav in-charge of the Hadapsar traffic division who was present at the meeting to take action against such vehicles.
 
 Jadhav told TOI that she has launched a special drive to take action against illegal transports like autorickshaws, vans, cars and multi utility vehicles found illegally ferrying passengers.
 
 “PMPML buses mostly ply on Magarpatta Road, Kharadi bypass, Gadital, Shewalwadi, Saswad, Mantri market, Sasanenagar, Mohammadwadi, Undri and Kondhwa areas, but there is no public transport for ferrying passengers in the internal areas of Hadapsar. The situation has compelled passengers to make use of illegal transport because they offer services at Rs 10 per person. The vehicles pick up passengers from any place and drop them at their door step, but they don’t maintain traffic discipline like using signals before stopping,” she said. 
 
 The illegal vehicles ferry passengers more than the prescribed limits. They ask commuters to sit on the front seat next to the driver which is not allowed. “We have seized 32 such vehicles and sent the cases to the magisterial court for paying fines since December 7 as of now. We have also written to the Regional Transport Office to suspend their licences and permits for flouting norms. The action taken has disciplined drivers of other vehicles,” she said. 
 
 Autorickshaw driver Shashikane Ahiwale whose vehicle was seized said, “The RTO does issue permits for driving vehicles and we use the permit of other persons for driving autorickshaws for which we have to pay rent for five years that is over Rs 70,000 or make a part payment per month, for instance Rs 2,000. Some colleagues have badges, but they drive vehicles on a rental basis for earning a living. In order to recover the rent of the permit and vehicles, we have no choice but to ferry passengers more than the prescribed limit. If the RTO gives us individual permits, we will not flout the norms.” 
 
 Corporator Chetan Tupe said there is severe shortage of PMPML buses and complaints of frequency forcing passengers to wait for more than one hour for a bus. “Passengers have no choice, but to make use of illegal transport on shared basis for reaching their destinations because three-seater autorickshaws are expensive.” 
 
 PMPML officials said they were trying to get more buses on the fleet for catering to the needs of rapid urbanisation in Hadapsar and fringe areas.
 
 
