AURANGABAD: Students appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) in   have demanded   in Nanded and Latur besides Aurangabad.

 Entire Marathwada region has only Aurangabad as the sole centre for the NEET-UG and the candidates living far away from the city are forced to travel long distances to appear for the test.
 
 Nationalist   (NCP) MLC   has sent a formal letter to the Union HRD and the   (CBSE) demanding two more   centres for the region. 
 
 Arguing that NEET has been made mandatory for aspirants of health science courses, Chavan said only one centre for eight district of Marathwada would pose many hardships for the candidates. 
 
 “Imagine, an aspirant from Umarga in Osmanabad district coming to Aurangabad for taking NEET by travelling a distance of more than 500 km. Such candidates will have to camp in the city a day in advance as the test is in the morning,” he said. 
 
 Richa Pallod, a candidate from Nanded, said reaching Aurangabad for taking NEET would result in waste of time and energy ahead of the test. “Last crucial hours before the test would get lost in travelling,” she said while demanding a centre in her home town.
 
 A parent from Latur said he would have to spend a good amount of cash to ensure his girl appears for NEET. “I have to find accommodation in the form of lodging facility as I have to reach Aurangabad a day before. The trip will also involve cost towards travelling and food,” he said.
 
 The CBSE authorities could not be reached for comment. 
 
 Scheduled for May 7, the NEET is expected to be taken by thousands of students from Maharashtra this year. 
 
 The NEET 2017 is an entrance exam conducted for candidates who desire to do any graduate medical course (MBBS), dental course (BDS) or postgraduate course (MD/MS) in private or government medical colleges in India.
 
 The NEET for undergraduate (UG) is meant for BDS and MBBS courses. NEET-UG has replaced the All India Pre-Medical Test (AIPMT) and all other individual MBBS exams organized at the level of states or institutions themselves. 
 
