You could take the   out of Lucknow, but could you ever take Lucknow out of the Nawab? Back in May 1856, Wajid Ali Shah, the 10th Nawab of Oudh, came to what was then Calcutta with much disquiet in his heart. The British had confiscated his lands, his treasury , his comfort -indeed, they had even banished him from his beloved Luc know. So what was he left with? On the outskirts of Kolkata, in  , the Nawab rebuilt a repli ca of his beloved capital, complete with grand Islamic structures, his beloved parikhana of damsels, a zoo of exotic animals, kite-flying, kabootarbaazi and yes, food from the royal kitchen.But the purse strings had been tightened. The table was set, but the grandiose banquets were un der quite a bit of financial strain.

 So the Nawab's enterprising chefs thought of an ingenious way to deal with the shortage of meat. They added potatoes and eggs to the royal repast -and thus was born the Kolkata biryani.
 
 
 
 
 We were hearing the history of this dish from  , the great-greatgranddaughter of the Nawab. “The only difference between   biryani and the Kolkata biryani is that the latter has aloo. When Wajid Ali came to Kolkata, he did not have enough funds to feed his entourage in an elaborate way . But his culinary heritage was his biggest treasure and he was both khaane ke aur khilaane ke shaukeen. So, after a few years in Kolkata, the potato was introduced in the biryani. The tuber had been brought to India by the Portuguese and was considered a novelty, since it was imported. It was also quite expensive, though not as much as meat.Apart from bringing down costs, the potato also helped to maximise the volume of the dish,“ Manzilat told us.
 
 We met Manzilat on a warm summer afternoon at the Sibtainabad Imambara, in the heart of Metiabruz. The building houses the tomb of the Nawab and in that sense, is a great place to hear the story of the biryani's evolution. “The taste of the biryani available in restaurants differs from what I cook at home. They use artificial colour, meetha attar and definitely there's no saffron. It is also a bit spicy. But the one that we make at home has to be mild and we use saffron to get that perfect colour. The biggest difference is that we use mustard oil, which was always very popular in  , to cook the korma,“ said Manzie, as she is fondly called by her friends and family members. Manzilat should know what she's talking about. After all, the tradition of cooking the dish has been handed down to her by her mother, who, in turn, learnt it from her grandmother, Farrukh Ara Mehdi Begum, who was the wife of Meher Qudr. Meher was the only son of Birjis Qudr, Wajid Ali Shah's eldest son.
 
 
 
 Apart from sharing family history, Manzilat also con sented to cook the special Nawabi biryani that she makes at home for CT.
 
 “Every time I place a layer of biryani in the handi, I have a habit of saying Bismillah, which means in the name of Allah. As Muslims, we start any aus picious work by taking his name and I feel that's the secret behind my biryani coming out so well,“ said Manzilat, as she put the meat in mustard oil on low flame at her Mirza Ghalib Street residence.
 
 “To get rid of the pungency of mustard oil, I smoke or burn the oil completely till it turns a dusty-grey in colour,“ she added. The rice has to be soaked in water for some time, before it is cooked threefourths. Then, when the meat is medium soft, the potatoes fried golden brown and the rice half-cooked, it's time to put the biryani on dum. From homemade biryani garam masala to a mixture of saffron strands and milk to kewra water and ghee, everything is poured into the handi with utmost finesse.
 
 And then comes the crucial part -the dum. “Biryani ko dum dena is the most difficult part. It requires the most con centration and during this time I don't let anyone talk to me since the slightest of mis takes can spoil the zaika of the dish,“ said Manzilat. She apparently calls this the jhat pat biryani as it doesn't take more than two hours to make. Also, having mas tered the art of making biryani over 35 years, Manzilat has everything on her fingertips.
 
 Once the lid is removed, her entire apartment filled with a heavenly aroma as Manzilat turned to us with a smile and said, “It's ready.“ She makes it a point to serve her biryani with a generous helping of boorani, a type of raita or ghol, that's made from mint leaves, green chillies, rock salt, roasted cumin and curd and also acts as a palate cleanser.
 
 
 
 
 Over the years, this member of the royal family has turned her love and passion for cooking into a part-time profession. She takes house party , birthday and small corporate event orders, for a headcount that doesn't exceed 25.Apart from the biryani, she also makes chicken or mutton rezala, dum ki machhli and different kebabs. “I prefer doing everything on my own, since I don't want to compromise on quality . If the order is for more than 25 people, it's difficult to cook the food at home. At times, there's a mixed order for chicken and mutton biryanis. I then have to make both simultaneously so that they remain equally fresh,“ Manzilat said.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 She also does pop-up cookery shows in Kolkata and has even travelled to Lucknow for some.Though she wants to start a catering business, she's in two minds since this requires hiring and training people and sharing her secret recipe. “Perfecting the art of making biryani didn't happen in a day , but took several years of trying and testing. Also, my children, Aman and Asna, have been my biggest critic. When they started having the biryani, they would find one fault or the other and that helped me improve my skills. Now that they've grown up, they tell me, Mamma you make the best biryani ever,“ smiled Manzilat. The Nawab's heritage is in safe hands.
 
 
