KOCHI: The  , which was issued a   on Thursday, has received the   to resume its operations on a temporary basis. 

 The corporation authorities who conducted an inspection along with fire and rescue personnel, have asked the mall operators to replace at least one-third of the immovable glass panels covering the entire structure with movable ones within 45 days.
 
 The mall operators have been given the permission to run the mall but the food court and the restaurant from where a fire had broken out recently, will remain shut.
 
  "We, along with the fire and rescue personnel had conducted inspection at the mall on Friday. As the court directed we heard the mall operators on Saturday. They have already taken some temporary measures to put in place proper firefighting facilities. For completing the remaining work, they have sought 45 days' time," said A S Anuja, secretary,  .
 
 When the fire broke out at the mall, its glass panels had to be broken to release the smoke. So, we have asked them to replace at least one third of the immovable glass panel with movable ones. We have instructed the mall owners to install smoke extractors as well," said V  , assistant divisional fire officer. 
 
 "They have been asked to ensure proper fire exits. Fire suppressors will have to be installed in kitchens," he said.
 
 Officials with the mall said they have already made some modifications which were pointed out by the fire and rescue services department. Out of the four fire exits in the mall, two don't have an opening to the ground floor. After the fire mishap, the mall authorities provided landing for one of the two staircases, which lacked the facility, at the ground floor. 
 
 "We would be providing landing for the fourth one at ground floor within a few days," an official with the mall said. 
 
 After completing the rectification works, the mall operator should get the structure inspected by the fire and rescue department. Then, the operator should approach the corporation authorities with a clearance certificate from the fire and rescue department. Then only, the corporation would grant permanent approval for the mall.
 
