Nagpur: Chandeliers, horse, boat, and flowers of different kinds donned the walls of Darda Art Gallery, Lokmat Square. City resident and homemaker Uzma Firdous, 41, presented her first   ever to the audience which gathered to see works by the self-trained painter. Titled ‘Art for Heart’s Sake’, the exhibition comprised natural, abstract and landscape paintings rich in vivid colours. The exhibition is open to viewers till July 9 from 2pm to 8.30pm.

 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and scion on Bhonsle family Raje Mudhoji Bhonsle inaugurated the exhibition, which largely used acrylic on canvas as a medium. Musician MA Kader also graced the event among other personalities. “I’ve always been fascinated with nature and I’m into gardening too,” explains Firdous, adding that she has painted everything her heart appreciates. 
 
 “Nature tells us a lot. Through this set of paintings, I’ve tried to express my emotions,” she says, adding that she first started sketching at the age of 10, and made several paintings thereafter, but never professionally. “I used to gift my paintings to relatives or make it for my house. Until one day, a close friend told me to hold an exhibition to let my inner creativity out. And yes, dreams do come true,” she says.
 
 Firdous took about six months to make the paintings, balancing her art along with household responsibilities. “After my marriage, my art took a back seat. Only some time ago, my mother motivated me to paint again, and I decided to pursue it with vigour.” Firdous says she learnt art by taking to the Internet and watching videos of acclaimed artists from around the world.
 
 Verses from the Quran were recited before the programme began. Bhonsle termed the paintings as liberating and pleasing to the eyes, as he encouraged Firdous to keep painting in the future. Praising the artworks, Bawankule said that Firdous had made the city proud. These kind of paintings will even do well in London,” he said, adding that all paintings require an artist to be attached to his work emotionally and forget the world in order to immerse himself in his art. He also pledged his support for helping take Firdous’ exhibition to other cities of the country. 
 
 
