PANAJI: The   (NIT), Goa, can now look at increasing its intake four-fold in the next four years, new NIT director Gopal Mugeraya said on Saturday, at the ceremony held by the state to hand over land at Cuncolim for the NIT to set up its permanent campus. The institute was set up in 2010 and its intake stands at 140 at present. 

 NIT Goa on Saturday was finally handed over the 120 acres of land acquired at the state’s cost. 
 
 Mugeraya said that he will ensure that NIT Goa has a ‘beautiful campus’ of its own within the next three years. The institute is presently operating from   campus at  .
 
 “When I joined NIT Agartala, the intake was 390, by the time, I left to join Goa the intake was up by 1000. The Goa NIT intake has remained 140. We can increase the seats to over 700 so that Goa students get at least 400 seats at the institute, due to the 40% reservation for state students,” said Mugeraya.
 
 The land was handed over to the NIT after fulfillment of the state’s condition that Goans should get at least 40% exclusive reservation of seats at the institute under state quota. Until last year, Goa shared the reserved seats along with union territories like Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
 
 Mugeraya also said that he will limit the expansion at NIT Goa to certain streams of engineering, so as to provide specialised education in select streams. “I want students to join NIT Goa by choice,” he said.
 
 Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias requested the NIT to leave a pathway in the campus for locals to access water from a traditional water source located in the property. Former Cuncolim MLA Rajan Naik said land owner Mario Moraes should be credited for taking the initiative to invite the NIT to Cuncolim.
 
 Professor Udaykumar R Yaragetti, who was holding charge before Mugeraya’s appointment as NIT Goa director, said that all the other new NITs that were started along with Goa have completed at least 50% of work on its new campuses.
 
 “We want NIT Goa to grow as fast as possible,” Ranbir Singh, state secretary for education said.
 
 Director of technical education Vivek Kamat and assistant director Deepak Gaitonde were among those felicitated by the NIT Goa for their contribution in acquisition of the land for the NIT.
 
