If it needed   to use a pen, an angootha chhaap can operate a computer today”, said the animated young man in Kolkata. He was referring to his facility with a mobile phone and the doors that it opened for him by the mere twiddling of his thumbs. As part of a study examining the social impact of technology in the country, we had run into this school drop-out in a small shopping complex where he was selling costume jewellery that he had taught himself to make by watching youtube videos. He had learnt to navigate the world that the phone gave him first by learning English on his own, which allowed him to use the smartphone with lightning speed, and then by teaching himself ways to earn a living. More than anything else, he exuded confidence about being able to learn on his own.

 He is not alone. Elsewhere, 10-year-olds are at the forefront of technology, using it as their primary sense organ. A young kid in Nashik attributed his amazing facility with the digital world to the ‘surround’. Some housewives spoke of their new found ability to expand their range of skills, beginning with the culinary, thanks to videos and WhatsApp groups. A section of retired people spoke of how learning to use the internet gave them a new lease of life- the world suddenly opened out. Old interests were revived, new ones discovered.
 
 Once a certain minimum threshold of familiarity is crossed, the phone becomes an instrument of exploratory travel and discovery. The wonderful thing about a search engine like   is that you need to know nothing in order to use it. To avail of it, all one needs is to confess one’s ignorance- one needs no qualifications or any prior knowledge or expertise in a subject to begin educating oneself on it. 
 
 Traditionally, learning in India has been a tedious affair. Learning by rote has been the norm, and the mental model is that of dense knowledge struggling to penetrate our brains. Most of us immediately forget what we have allegedly learnt once the exams are over. The onerous formality of education creates a barrier to those outside its ambit. It is far from clear as to what use would one be able to put the things that one learns in school. 
 
 Attempts to promote ‘vocational’ education have traditionally met with limited success. Things are changing, however. Across the country, traditional ideas about what constitutes good education are beginning to change; computer training institutes, airhostess academies, media and event management schools, personality development courses- these are the emerging faces of education in the country.
 
 With technology, it is possible to imagine an even more radical redefinition of the idea of learning. Instead of a linear, step-by-step process which is determined by those who allegedly know better, education comes an exercise in discovery of those bits of knowledge that are of immediate and direct relevance and interest to the seeker.
 
 Otherwise, today education is something that gets injected into us without our consent and without any sense of need. 
 
 And yet, there is nothing intrinsically sacred about the process we think of as education. All of us need teachers, we need texts of one kind or another, and we need some repetition and reinforcement in order to learn, and all of these can potentially be made available outside the formal system of education. We also need to be able to learn all of our lives, and not cram education in a 15-year period at the beginning.
 
 Education is being set free to be stumbled upon. It will flow in unpredictable non-linear ways as those outside its ambit will grab whatever they find useful. In a larger sense, perhaps it is time to rethink our traditional approach to education and harness this new capacity we have developed to learn on our own.What might help is the development of self-learning modules that are designed to aid the process of discovery using principles of storytelling and gamification. We are learning to learn in a new way, and that is good news.
 
