KANPUR: Concerned over   from the  , two   were successful in developing   called ' '. The patentable technology was developed two years ago. 

 In Aquvio's cost and energy saving Reverse Osmosis-based water purifier, only 30% of water is rejected and 70% is available for drinking purposes. Recognising the potential of Aquvio, IIT-Kanpur granted a seed funding of Rs 20 lakh to the company run by these ex-IIT-BHU students. 
 
 The duo--Naveen Kumar and Rohit Kumar Mittal--who had developed Aquvio in just two years, were successful in getting 60 Aquvio water purifiers installed across schools and colleges in Varanasi. Four such water purifiers were also installed at an Army unit in the holy city. With fresh round of funding, Naveen and Rohit are hopeful that they will be able to take forward their mission of saving water. In the last one year, Aquvio managed to save one crore litre of water. 
 
 Talking to TOI over phone, Naveen, who passed out from IIT-BHU in 2014 said, "Aquvio's water filters significantly reduce the amount of water wasted as compared to modern RO water systems. In water purifiers available in the market, 70% of the water is drained out, which is nothing but a wastage in the current scenario of water crisis in our country. In Aquvio's cost and energy saving Reverse Osmosis-based water purifier, only 30% of the water is rejected and 70% is available for drinking purpose. Aquvio water purifiers also consume less power".
 
 Naveen said that while the first water purifier was developed and launched in the market in August 2015 after eight months of research, 60 products have been installed in different schools and colleges in Varanasi. "The technology used in Aquvio has already been patented. This patented technology only ensures that out of four litre of water only one litre gets drained and the remaining water is available for drinking purpose. It significantly helps in saving water", he further said. 
 
 Aquvio has two water purifiers that can filter huge quantities of water (100 litre per hour and 50 litre per hour) and are fit for use in corporate offices or schools/colleges. 
 
 When asked about the cost of a single piece of Aquvio, Naveen replied that Aquvio, dispensing 50 litre of water per hour costs Rs 50,000. "We are in the mode of expansion. At present our company is based in Malviya centre in IIT-BHU but soon we will have a manufacturing unit out of the institute campus. We shall base ourselves somewhere in Delhi/NCR. At present 16 full time employees are working in our company", said Naveen while talking about the expansion plans of his start-up. He said that he had accepted the job offer from a company during the campus placement drive but he did not join and after completing his BTech in 2014 he started with his water purification project. 
 
 "The fact that Aquvio purifiers are cost and energy efficient as well as helping in water conservation is what aligns the start-up with the aim of the INVENT programme, under which SIIC (SIDBI Innovation and Incubation Centre) has funded the company. IIT-Kanpur has granted a seed funding of Rs 20 lakh to a cost and energy efficient water purifier start-up called Aquvio (iMinbit Technologies Pvt. Ltd.), based in Varanasi", said Prof Sameer Khandekar, associate dean, Innovation and Incubation, IIT-Kanpur.
 
 "We are excited to welcome Aquvio into IIT Kanpur's social incubation programme which has seen rapid growth over the last six months. With a majority of India's cities and towns reeling under water crisis, Aquvio's water-saving ROtechnology not only reduces water wastage but also provides sustainable potable water to the underprivileged communities," said Prof Khandekar.
 
 Aquvio has been recognised by Startup India Standup India, a Government of India initiative, Naveen said. 
 
 INVENT is a collaboration between the Technology Development Board, Government of India and the Department for International Development, Government of the United Kingdom. 
 
 As on June 30, IIT-Kanpur has received the highest number of incubation applications approved among the three other INVENT incubators in the country. The institute's INVENT programme has been operational since August 2016 and has so far funded nine social enterprises.
 
 
