PATNA: Kundan Raj Choudhary of R P S School and Aarya Kaushik of Gyan Niketan Girl’s School lifted the winner’s trophy in senior and junior categories, respectively, at an inter-school poem recitation   organised by Gyan Niketan on Saturday. The programme was organised in the memory of Hindi poet Mahadevi Verma. At least eight city schools, including DAV Khagaul, DAV Dukhanram, International School, Radiant International School, RPS School and St Karen’s High School, participated in the contest.

 Lisa Amarpali of Gyan Niketan Girl’s School and Sushmita Kumari of DAV Dukhanram bagged the second and third positions, respectively, in junior category. The consolation prize was awarded to Vartika Vijay of International School and Divyanshu Tiwari of Radiant International School. In senior category, the second and third positions were bagged by Pragya Shree of Gyan Niketan Girl’s School and Prachi Singh DAV Dukhanram, respectively. Nishant Kumar of St Karen’s High School and Vikas Kumar of RPS School got the consolation prize. The programme was judged by former vice-chancellor of Patna University Dr L N Ram. The prizes were distributed by the judge and school principal J K Mukherjee. Students also presented an act on ‘Ghisa’, a devoted student of Mahadevi Verma. School vice-principal S M Jha and other teachers were present.
 
 Lab re-launched: Radiant International School re-launched the Atal Tinkering Lab, an initiative of the government of India in the field of science and technology, on Saturday. The programme was inaugurated by state science and technology director Atul Sinha, Bihar Pollution Control Board scientist Navin Kumar and Tarumitra’s founder and programme coordinator Fr Robert Athickal. School principal Col Prem Prakash and Indirapuram Group of Institution chairman Vishal Singh were also present.
 
 School choir welcomed the guests with melodious song. Speaking on the occasion, Atul Sinha said the initiative would go a long way in motivating young minds to go for inventions for the welfare of the planet.
 
 
