KOTA: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Wednesday arrested a   of   while she was accepting a   of Rs 25,000. The   also arrested the secretary of the department with a bribe amount of Rs 18,000 to be shared between him and the sarpanch of Mawasa gram panchayat who was also arrested from his village. 

 The engineer through the secretary and gram panchyat sarpanch had demanded a bribe of Rs 45,000 from a contractor for sanctioning the pending bill amount of Rs 2.40 lakh for construction of anicuts under watershed programme in gram panchyat Mawasa. The accused trio would be produced before the ACB court on Thursday.
 
 The sleuths carried out a raid at watershed department office in zila parishad premises of the city and arrested Priti Sain, junior engineer of the department while she was accepting a bribe of Rs 25000, said additional superintendent of police (ASP) ACB, Kota, Thakur Chandrasheel.
 
 The ASP said, the accused engineer through the secretary had demanded a bribe of the Rs 45,000 for sanctioning bill of about Rs 2.40 lakh for the construction of anicuts in grampanchyat Mawasa of Kaithun area of the district and the first installment of bribe amount was paid today when the trap was laid, the ASP said.
 
 Chandrasheel said, secretary of the department Suresh Mali was also arrested with a bribe amount of Rs 18,000, the ASP said adding Rs 9,000 out of Rs 18,000 were meant to be given to sarpanch of gram panchayat Mawasa, Suresh who is also one of the signatories to the payment cheque to the contractor. The sarpanch was also arrested from his village, the ASP added.
 
 A contractor with the Watershed department, Farukh a few days ago complained about the matter to the ACB, Kota and following the verification of the complaint, the ACB had been waiting for the call by the JEN for taking the bribe amount, the ASP said adding the JEN called the contractor to the office today with bribe installment of Rs 25,000.
 
 The ACB teams have been sent for the search operation at the residents of the three accused, the ASP said and added that three accused would be produced before the ACB court on Thursday.
 
 
