CHENNAI: A gang of eight   allegedly kidnapped the   of a   after the businessman cheated them of nearly Rs 2 lakh promising them   in   on Wednesday morning.

 Police have also detained the businessman’s father on a cheating complaint given by the graduates.
 
 Police said Imran, son of Muhammed Rafiq, 50, runs a   firm in Valasaravakkam. He sends graduates   for employment. The graduates went to register themselves in the firm to get jobs abroad. Imran reportedly collected Rs 1.60 lakh from graduates claiming that he would get them jobs overseas.
 
 “He failed to get them jobs and kept dodging them,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Since then they were searching for Imran and visted his office several times but in vain, as he failed to come for talks with them. Meanwhile when the graduates went looking for him in his house, they found his car in a house in KK Nagar.
 
 However, Imran was not there so the gang decided to kidnap his father in Mohammad Rafiq on Tuesday night from K K Nagar.
 
 Mohammad Rafiq’s friend Lal Bhadur lodged a missing complaint claiming that a gang in a Maruti Swift car bundled his friend into the car and escaped. Since Imran remained unreachable over phone, the gang kept travelling with his father for a while. They kept him in a house and tried to call his son asking him to come with the money. Meanwhile, police who were tracing Imran’s mobile number tracked their location. 
 
 A special police team which reached the scene arrested Prasanna, 27, native of Mayiladuthurai and K Aravind, 24, resident of Kodambakkam, K Hariharan of Red Hills, V Gokul Prasad, 19 of Peravallur, R Vinoth Raj, 20 of Villupuram, P Vagisan, 20 of Poonamallee, R Kumar, 20 of Agaram, S Vigneshwaran, 26 of Kodambakam. 
 
 During enquiry it was found that the graduates had filed a complaint against Imran with the   (CCB) police on August 24. The CCB team had started inquiry into the issue but Imran was absconding so the case was not pursued further. Frustrated over this, the graduates hatched a plan to get back their money.
 
 “Since Mohammad’s son is involved in the offence, we are questioning his father to trace the whereabouts of his son. Some more people are involved in the kidnap. We have launched a manhunt for six of them, who are still at large,” said the officer.
 
