HOWRAH: West Bengal   ( ) on Tuesday took cognizance of the TOI report on Tuesday on how a 12-year-old   survivor—who recently gave birth to a baby girl, becoming probably the youngest mother in the state—was forced to move court to get an   in the face of alleged police refusal. 

 “I am shocked at the heinous nature of the crime. I am appalled that the girl, forced into motherhood at such a tender age, did not receive justice from the law for so long. Our commission encourages women and girls to learn karate for self-defence. But here, a karate teacher is accused of rape. The delay does not send a positive message for democracy. It is also a grim instance in the cause of women’s protection,” WBCW chairperson Sunanda Mukherjee told TOI. 
 
  “On the basis of the TOI report, I have directed the commission staff to start a suo motu case and begin proceedings against the denial of justice to the girl. The proceedings will deal in security for the survivor and her family. If necessary, we will direct the administration to provide them protection. I will meet the girl and her family this week to learn about her entire ordeal. I will also meet the Howrah SP.”
 
 The girl and her family, who were compelled to take shelter at relatives’ homes after goons with alleged political links reportedly damaged and ransacked their house in Howrah, were escorted back home by the Howrah police on Monday night. The police have also been patrolling the area to prevent further attacks. “We are relieved to have been able to return home. We want the culprits arrested at the earliest,” the girl’s uncle said. 
 
 The five accused named in the FIR, including a karate teacher who allegedly raped the girl, have been absconding. The girl will record her statement before a magistrate on Friday.
 
 The police launched a searched of the accused on Monday night, after getting a certified copy of the FIR the girl lodged in court. “The survivor and her family have returned home. We have arranged round-the-clock patrolling for their protection,” said Howrah SP Sumit Kumar. 
 
 Among the five accused, the karate teacher, Nupur Karmakar, is charged with rape. The remaining four have been accused of ransacking and damaging the family’s home, threatening and beating up the victim’s kin besides theft and criminal conspiracy. Outlining the legal course, the girl’s lawyer Mohammad Farukh said, “Based on the girl’s statement to be recorded on March 24, the court is expected to give a directive to the police.” 
 
 
