CUTTACK: The   on Tuesday trained its gun against the ruling   for its failure in tackling the outbreak of jaundice in  . 

 A team of BJP leaders, including party's state unit chief Basant Panda, visited the jaundice affected wards and interacted with the people. The saffron outfit alleged that due to negligence and apathy of the government, people of Cuttack have been suffering from this disease.
 
 "Jaundice situation is alarming in Cuttack and we will take up the matter in the assembly," Panda assured. Panda alleged that when the BJP-BJD coalition government was in power, a project of Rs 300 crore was announced in 2005 to replace the rusty and damaged pipelines in Cuttack to ensure safe drinking water to the residents. 
 
 "But in the last one decade the BJD government has not managed to complete the project. This reflects the callous attitude of the ruling party towards.. The state government is solely responsible for frequent outbreak of jaundice in Cuttack," Panda claimed. The BJP delegation moved around Bengali Sahi and Matha Sahi areas, which are the worst affected."During our visit we found that in Bengali Sahi and Matha Sahi areas many families are suffering from jaundice but are yet to receive any kind of medical help." 
 
 The BJP leaders also slammed health minister Pradeep Amat and urban development minister Pushpendra Singh Deo for not visiting the jaundice affected areas. 
 
 "It is really sad that the BJD ministers don't have time to visit Cuttack and inquire about the health condition of the affected persons or review the jaundice situation here," said Samir Dey, a senior BJP leader.
 
 On Tuesday,   Aadmi Party workers gheraoed Cuttack Municipal Corporation office for its failure in containing the spread of jaundice As many as 12 new cases of jaundice were reported on Tuesday, taking the total number of affected to 121.
 
    officials claimed that additional manpower has been deployed to take up disinfection of tube-wells and water tanks in the affected areas on a war-footing and for cleaning and sanitation work as well.
 
 
