Bhopal: The   cab driver, who was stabbed to death by a 19-year-old youth in Berkheda Pathani locality here on Saturday night, was about to get married soon, say his kin.

 “His marriage was getting finalised and the girl’s family members were to visit our home in the coming week,” says Raju Pujari, the aggrieved father of Uber cab driver Yogesh Pujari. Accused Ashwini, a resident of Berkheda Pathani and a first year student of ITI, was arrested on Saturday and produced before a court on Sunday. A shattered Raju Pujari told TOI, “I have worked as taxi driver for all my life and had also come across accidents, but killing someone over such petty dispute is horrible. It is hard to believe that he is no more. It was only a couple of weeks ago that we discussed about his marriage, but now everything is over.” He also alleged that it was not only Ashwini but also his family members who thrashed Yogesh. “Yogesh’s friends, who were on the spot, said Ashwini’s family members also thrashed him, but no action has been taken against them,” he alleged. Police, however, said they have not received any complaint in this regard. “If we get anything in writing and it is found true, then appropriate action would be taken,” CSP Veerendra Mishra told TOI.
 
 Talking to TOI, investigating officer Azim Sherkhan said Yogesh had gone out to meet his friends Narendra and Ganesh at Barkheda Pathani on Saturday evening. While he was coming back his car hit accused Ashwini’s stationary scooter. Within seconds Ashwini came out of his house and abused Yogesh. When Yogesh asked him not to abuse him, as he is ready to pay the repairing cost, Ashwini rushed inside, warning Yogesh that he will kill him. He soon came out with a sharp-edged knife and attacked Yogesh. In the meantime, deceased’s friends arrived at the spot and quickly took him to JP hospital from where he was referred to Hamidia hospital. However, doctors at Hamidia hospital declared him brought dead. Police said deceased Yogesh has a younger and an elder brother. His father Raju is also a taxi driver attached with Ola.
 
 
