LUCKNOW: Stage is set for the swearing-in ceremony of CM-designate   on Sunday. As soon as his name was finalised on Saturday evening, the sound system at the venue started playing “Janta CM Maang Rahi,” a popular song on Adityanath which has scored over seven lakh hits within a year on YouTube.

 The ceremony will be attended by chief ministers of 12 states and four governors besides 15 union ministers and hundreds of MPs and MLAs. BJP’s state unit is going all out to give a saffron look to the event. Twelve quintal marigold flowers and three quintal other flowers will ensure that the main pandal is decorated in yellow and orange colours.
 
 Expecting a large turnout, the state machinery has made arrangements to accommodate up to 65,000 people. To avoid the main stage from crumbling under pressure, Lucknow Development Authority has constructed a three-feet high brick and mortar foundation for scaffolding made up of metal poles and wooden planks.
 
 A makeshift room had been also created behind the main stage where VVIP dignitaries will be able to change and will be served tea and snacks. PM Narendra Modi and Governor Ram Naik, the host of the event, will be able to drive up to the main stage from one of the gates of  , the venue in Aashiana.
 
 To ensure that guests occupying mainstage do not feel uncomfortable in case of a sunny afternoon, air conditioning units have also been placed. The ceremony is scheduled to begin at 2.15pm. PM Modi and other dignitaries will be brought to the venue via Amausi, Transport Nagar, Barabirwa route.
 
 A waterproof tent is being set up which is made of fire retardant fabric. The main pandal will be more than 300 metres in length and 134 metres wide. Two seating areas have also been created adjacent to the main pandal which will be covered. On the left side of the mainstage, a pavilion-like structure will be erected to house the newly elected MLAs who will be given ministerial berths and will take oath. The pavilion on the right side of the mainstage will be for MPs.
 
 Senior government officers made several rounds of the venue on Saturday while district magistrate G S Priyadarshi examined the site at 7.30pm. Once the work is complete, district administration will ask the special protection group to sensitise the venue. Only then will people holding permit cards be allowed inside on Sunday.
 
 Close to 8,000 security personnel will be deployed and seven SPs, 26 Addl SPs, 50 DySPs apart from ATS commandos will be deployed. Seven PTZ cameras will be installed around the mainstage and pandal while 18 more CCTV cameras will be set up at strategic points. A mini control room has also been constructed and fire tender will be kept on standby. 
 
