BHACHAU (KUTCH):   urged people of Kutch to value each drop of Narmada   as budget meant for poor was cut to ensure large budgetary allocations to bring   to the arid district of Kutch. 

 Modi was addressing a public meeting after inaugurating the third Narmada pumping station at Bhachau that will bring water for irrigation and drinking purpose to many parts of Kutch reeling under severe water scarcity since ages. Currently, 85% of the 647 villages declared 'scarcity-hit' this summer are located in Kutch.
 
 "When we told other states that   by   is made for water, other states would not understand. They would think Gujarat is a happy and prosperous state. But we know that over the years we have tried to fetch Narmada water to you by denying hopes and aspirations of many poor people by cutting allocations who could have been provided good schools, hospitals and food," said Modi. 
 
 "Now, that Narmada is coming, the budget will be curtailed in the coming days. It will be possible to use funds for the priority areas of the poor. At this time, do not forget the poor, pledge to use Narmada water judiciously so that it greens your farms and brings prosperity not just to you but the poor as well," said Modi. 
 
 Modi said that now that Narmada water has reached Kutch, it promises to change the lives of people in the scarcity-ridden state.
 
 "We have lived the fact that Narmada, considered the lifeline of Gujarat, has become our life. A week ago, I offered prayers at Amarkantak from where Narmada originates and today the waters have travelled thousands of kilometres to reach Kutch. The elders who have lived their lives battling water scarcity will bless us," said Modi.
 
 Modi also mentioned the new Bhuj bus port. "It is a matter of pride that the Bhuj bus port is like the airport. When people of Kutch will come to Bhuj, they will take the word about Gujarat government's good work to the world", said Modi who said that Gujarati might should be used only for development.
 
