The students had gathered in their thousands at the  . Some ideologically motivated activists knew all the nuances of the jallikattu issue as well as how to organize protests. A few college-level leaders had a good grasp of the details. Most were aware of only the basics - and Facebook posts, WhatsApp messages and propaganda videos were their sources of information.

 For them, joining the protest was a way of expressing solidarity with the protest.They were driven by a sense that Tamil pride was at stake and there had to be a show of strength so Delhi would sit up and take notice.
 
 The students had a romantic idea of Tamil life in villages and felt the lifestyle needed to be protected. PeTA was their common object of hate although the NGO is only one of many animal rights organisations, albeit the most visible one, against jallilkattu.
 
 Many felt Tamils had been dealt a wrong deal, and talked about how Karnataka flouted   orders on Cauvery . “We are voicing our frustration and we expect the Supreme Court to listen. It is our Tamil culture which is at stake,“ said S Sankar, who identified himself as a   graduate.
 
 Added to this was a sense of injustice meted out by “outsiders“. B Nithish Kumar, a third-year mechanical engineering student at the Chennai Institute of Technology , believes that foreigners have plotted to destroy native cattle breeds in  .“Why else would they import Jersey cows from another country?“ he said, referring to pictures that were circulated on the social networking site Facebook, on Tuesday night.
 
 Though living in Chennai, many were migrants from villages. “I grew up with cattle. I know how people treat them. I don't need PeTA to tell me otherwise,“ said E Jagadeesh. Asked why was it that jallikattu elicited such a response, when issues like farmer suicides evoked very little emotion among the students, Solomon Raj, a stu dent of Meenakshi College of Engineering, said that “farmer suicides was a never ending issue. It will continue to happen for another generation but jallikattu deserves our attention. If we lose it now, then what is the point of calling ourselves Tamils?“ he said.
 
 Sai Saranya and her friends, who were making charts with slogans on them, said the gathering would show the world how it would look when Tamils rose as one.
 
 Joining the students were IT professionals on OMR, near Tidel Park and beyond. Students of Sathyabama University expressed support too.
 
