Madurai: Aadi amavasai was celebrated in the temples across the southern district as people paid obeisance to their ancestors by participating in special prayers, but there was a shortage of water for performing the rituals as well as drinking and bathing in many temples across the region.

 Lakhs of people offered prayers at the Rameswaram Sri Ramanathaswamy temple and took a dip in the sea while priests sitting in long rows performed the rituals for the devotees who took turns to sit before them. The temple opened as early as 3am on Sunday in view of the festival. 
 
 Devotees who came in the afternoon found it difficult to walk in the hot sand as the vehicle parking facility was located 1km away. People also had to stand in long queues to take a bath near the wells of the temple while many said that they found it difficult to access drinking water. 
 
 Thousands of devotees also went up Sathuragiri hills to the Sundaramahalingam temple but drinking water was scarce and were allowed to the temple only after the forest department personnel thoroughly vetted them. 
 
 As it is the practice for people to tonsure their heads many during this festival, many said that they had to wash their heads after the tonsure with bottled water as there was not enough water at the hill temple. People also used the water stored between rocks on the path to the temple during the trek up. 
 
 Special arrangements were made at the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai and its satellite temples including the Inmaiyil Nanmaitharuvar temple where people gathered in large temples.
 
 In smaller temples in the city, water collected in large drums was given to the devotees to perform their rituals and were advised to use it sparingly as the taps in the temples had run dry owing to lack water from the borewell.
 
 The special trains operated by Southern Railway to Rameswaram in view of the festival from Madurai and Chennai were overcrowded. TNSTC also operated special buses to all the important temples from the various southern districts.
 
 
