HYDERABAD: A member of the   lodged a complaint with police that   misbehaved and assaulted her late on Saturday .

 The 34-year-old transgender claimed she was allegedly attacked and molested by at least 10 Armymen stationed at Secunderabad Parade grounds. The incident, however, came to light on Sunday morning after city-based activists posted it on social media.
 
 “Military personnel brutality at parade grounds, Secunderabad. Dragged a trans woman in late hour and tried to denude her, beat her into red.(sic.),“ posted Rachana Mudraboyina, along with several pictures of injury marks on the victim. The victim managed to wriggle free and reached out to a police patrol vehicle nearby , but when police tried to record the incident on video, army personnel allegedly stopped the cops, said witnesses.
 
 After receiving medical treatment, the transgender woman on Sunday went to the Begumpet police station to lodge a complaint. Police, however, did not lodge an FIR.
 
 “It is an Army area and the victim was not supposed to enter that area. We are enquiring into the incide. Only after that we will register a case. The area comes under Army jurisdiction so we can do very little,“ G Jagan, inspector of Begumpet police station told TOI.
 
 When the attack was shown on local TV channels and uploaded on social media, police said they will investigate into the case. “Initially they came with an oral complaint. Now, police will lodge an FIR. We will start investigations,“ said B Sumathi, deputy commissioner of police (north zone).
 
  the attack was not a sole incident in Hyderabad. “The victim did not enter the ground. She was dragged inside. We have evidence of harassment and assault,“ said Mudraboyina.
 
 When contacted, the Army said they were not aware about the incident. “We have not received any complaint from police. So, we cannot comment on the incident,“ a defence spokesperson said.
 
 Crimes against LGBTQ go unreported
 
 Caught in social stigma, LGBTQ persons in Hyderabad are   of harassment, however, their cases go unreported due to lack of proper legal protection.
 
 According to an activist, due to lack of proper employment opportunity for trans women, most of them are either beggars or sex workers. Strangers verbally abuse them, attack with stones or chilly powder. She said that these incident happen due to lack of law that can recognise their problems and insensitive behaviour of police. Madhav, another queer activist, claimed that almost every person belonging to the LGBTQ community have faced harassment at one point.
 
 “Queer community members have also been frequent victims of cyber crime, where random people send abusive messages ,“ Madhav said.
 
 The community said that, there is lack of awareness in the city, making it difficult for them to reach out. “There are data on crime against women and children, but there is no official data on what the   face, “ he added. 
 
