NEW DELHI: The   is well within its rights to move and approve an amendment Bill to make changes to sections pertaining to   in the  , 1957. However, once approved by the assembly, the Bill, in all likelihood, will have to go to the Centre -- ministries of home affairs, urban development and law -- before it reaches the stage of presidential assent.

 It certainly doesn’t need to go to Parliament and the powers of the Delhi assembly are well defined in the matter.
 
 However, if the proposed changes in tax rate don’t interfere with sections of DMC Act, then an amendment is not needed. In that case, the matter can be dealt with at the level of the municipal corporation: the commissioner will need to bring in a budgetary proposal to lower -- or do away with -- the tax for certain categories for the next financial year and the House will need to approve it.
 
 What   has been stating so far is that it will “abolish house tax” on residential properties, but it is yet to share its plan of action. The party’s manifesto for the coming polls may hold some answers. Asked what the way forward would be, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told TOI: “The MCD House is empowered under Section 177 of the DMC Act to take the decision on tax exemption, including giving total tax exemption, to a category of properties.” Going by this, it appears that if AAP does win the polls, it will take the House resolution route. 
 
 Also, tax rates are fixed by February for the new financial year. So, even if AAP wins all the three corporations, it can deliver on its promise only from FY19. On what would happen if AAP wins one or two of the corporations, Sisodia said: “In that case, property tax will be done away with in that particular corporation.”
 
 The last major shift in the tax system dates back to April 2004 when the unit area method was brought in. Under this system, colonies were classified under A to H categories depending on facilities available. Since then, people pay taxes by way of self-assessment based on the “factor” assigned to each category of colony. The earlier system was based on an assessment of each property depending on the cost of construction and land at that time. This assessment was done by municipal inspectors.
 
 Interestingly, when the unit area method was introduced, the amendment Bill was approved in 2003 by the Congress-led Delhi assembly where BJP was the main opposition. While chief minister Sheila Dikshit was in office for the second term, the BJP-led NDA was at the Centre. The amendment Bill was approved by MHA and other line ministries and the President’s assent sealed the decision. The erstwhile MCD, which was then led by Congress, did not have much of a say in the whole matter.
 
 The unit area method has till date failed to bring all eligible property taxpayers under the tax net: in fact, the coverage is a measly 30%.
 
 AAP on Sunday asserted that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had made the announcement of the party’s intention to abolish house tax only after a full study of the finances of the corporations and the process of making amendments to the DMC Act. Sisodia said: “All amendments made to DMC Act before 1993 were made in Parliament. After 1993, many amendments have been made and none was done by Parliament, both during Congress and BJP regimes. In fact, house tax was 10% and was lowered to 6% in 2003.”
 
 He also referred to the amendments made to DMC Act in 2011. These were done to enable trifurcation and bring coordination functions of municipal governance across the three civic bodies under supervision of the state government. The then BJP-led MCD had objected furiously to the plan, but ultimately the assembly prevailed. After follow-ups with the Congress-led UPA at the Centre, Dikshit managed to get approval from MHA. 
 
 
