It’s only the month of February and The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), headed by Chairman  , has already refused to certify two films, including Shlok Sharma’s 'Haraamkhor' and Khalid Kidwai’s 'Rambhajjan Zindabad'. Since January 2015, when Nihalani assumed office, the   has been constantly making national headlines for being a body that censors films and doesn’t stick to certifying them. Matters came to a head last year when the CBFC ordered 13 cuts in Abhishek Chaubey’s 'Udta Punjab' and eventually had to face embarrassment when the Bombay High court passed the film with just one cut. It also sent out a clear message to the government body that the board doesn’t have the power to censor films, but can only suggest cuts, which are in consonance with the Constitution and the Supreme Court’s directions. Despite the rap on the knuckles from the law, little seems to have changed since then, as films like 'Baar Baar Dekho' and 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' that released after the 'Udta Punjab' debacle were also directed to cut scenes. 

 
 
 
 Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who took on the CBFC during the 'Udta Punjab' row, doesn’t mince words when asked about two new films (one of which is produced by him) falling prey to the board’s arbitrary censoring. He says, “When the CBFC refuses to certify a film, the makers should go to the revising committee and then the film certification appellate tribunal.” Kashyap, who has locked horns with the CBFC since his debut film 'Paanch', refuses to rely on the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for any changes to be brought in the certification process. “The government will do things when they want to. I have given up waiting. I would rather take the legal course allowed to me by law,” he states.
 
  
 
 
  Even before the 'Udta Punjab' row brought the CBFC’s bizarre functioning to the forefront in 2016, the board’s shenanigans with films like 'Dum Laga Ke Haisha', 'Spectre' and 'Fifty Shades of Grey' to name a few, a year earlier, had already earned the board the tag of being ‘sanskari’. 
 
  The government body and its members were trolled on social media platforms and ridiculed for taking on the mantle of being the upholders of Indian culture. Following the increasing clamour criticizing the board’s functioning, the I & B Ministry appointed a committee in January 2016, headed by legendary filmmaker Shyam Benegal to suggest recommendations in the certification process. 
 
  The committee, which also included the likes of actor  , filmmaker Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra and ad-man Piyush Pandey, submitted their report in April, but it has been gathering dust since. About what transpired after the submission of the report, Benegal says, “I have no idea whether the government has accepted the recommendations or not. In October, a minister did say that the recommendations were more or less acceptable to the government, but I haven’t been informed if the report has been accepted or not, in part or in full.”
 
  Mehra elaborates, “The idea behind the recommendations is to bring reforms. I hope the government implements our suggestions as soon as possible.” 
 
  
 
 
  For the certification process to be revamped, the Cinematograph Act of 1952 will have to be amended as the board functions according to its rules. Siddharth Roy Kapur, the president of the Film & Television Producers Guild of India, urges the government to implement the committee’s suggestions at the earliest. He says, “When an adult in our country is considered eligible to get married, vote, drive, consume alcohol and view any and all sorts of content in the uncensored digital medium, it is bizarre that he or she is not considered mature enough to decide what content they would like to consume in a cinema hall. Denying a film certification should be the last resort and should be done only in the rarest of rare cases. There has been an alarmingly high frequency of movies being denied certification recently, and it’s not in keeping with the spirit of certification rules or the recommendations of the committee. We would urge the CBFC to reconsider these rulings at the earliest, to ensure that freedom of expression is not trampled upon.” Is the I&B Ministry listening?
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
