NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Friday said the   is a "thing of a past", compared it to a 'sinking ship,' and said it changes like water to suit its political needs. 

 "Will the people of Punjab step into a ship which is on the verge of sinking?" the 
  , which was also attended by the state's Chief Minister, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) veteran Parkash Singh  . The SAD-BJP alliance has governed Punjab since 2007.
 
 Modi said the Congress has "no principles or rules," the news agency IANS reported. He described the recently-announced 
  in Uttar Pradesh, as an act of political opportunism. 
 
 "It (Congress) is a strange party. It tied up with the Left in West Bengal to survive in the state. Whatever they (Left) gave (as seats), it accepted...In Uttar Pradesh, it attacked the Samajwadi Party in its yatras. Then it went for a pact...It saw an opportunity after a feud in SP...," Modi said.
 
 That last remark was a reference to the internecine political feud between Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav and his father, SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, both of whom claimed their party's election symbol - the cycle - as their own. The Election Commission decided to grant Akhilesh the 'cycle' earlier this month. 
 
 Modi today hit back at Congress-Vice President Rahul Gandhi, who raked up the issue of the 
  .
 
 "Some people are taking politics to a new low by tarnishing the image of the youth of Punjab," Modi said. 
 
 He added that the pride of Punjabis has been tarnished by such statements, and the Assembly polls are the best way to reply to such remarks.
 
 
  
  
 
  He recalled that the Congress - which he said has " no colour, shape, or path" - had been readying itself to return to power in Punjab five years ago. But the state's voters decided otherwise, and brought Badal back as the chief minister instead, he said. 
 
 Modi said the country is witnessing the results of the "politics of destruction" the country has seen in the last 70 years. "Now, we have started politics of development," he added.
 
 The PM also spoke about the effects of demonetisation. In a reference to the note ban, he claimed he has been facing "atrocities" for the past three months. But here's what he said about his response to them: 
 
 "Modi hun. Zulm ke samne jhukta nahin (I am Modi. I do not bow before atrocities)." 
 
 The PM said people who've accumulated black money in the last 70 years "are still unable to digest the decision" his government took
 
 
 
 
