MUMBAI: The   ( ) will soon invite   to a   (DP) 2034 for just three different land parcels in the city. These parcels were not a part of the draft DP 2034 which was submitted to the state government in August after it was passed in the   on the midnight of July 31.

 The three areas are the Oshiwara business district from SV Road to Link Road, the Bandra-West A Block comprising Reclamation and areas near the Rangsharda auditorium, and Parigkhari from LBS Road to the Mithi river in Kurla. Together, the three and parcels make up 111 hectares of land (1.11sq km).
 
 The reason there is a separate draft for these land parcels is that they were with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and were handed over by the authority to the BMC in 2016, by which time the BMC had finished planning for the rest of the city (415 sq km), said civic officials.
 
 The new draft includes plans for a sewage treatment plant on the approximately 27 hectares between LBS Road to Mithi river in order to tackle the problem of the Mithi getting polluted owing to the indiscriminate dumping of raw and industrial sewage.
 
 At Bandra Reclamation, the planners have proposed a parking lot which can handle the huge vehicular traffic the area sees daily owing to the presence of a hospital and the Rangsharda auditorium. There is also a road marked here to improve connectivity.
 
 In the case of the Oshiwa ra business district, the planners have made a provision for industrial zones at several places as they feel that is the requirement of the locality. There are also reservations for open spaces and other civic amenities.
 
 The draft will now be made public. A senior BMC official said, “We have sent our proposal to the municipal secretary's office to seek a nod from the house of corporators for publishing the plan.Once it is published, we can invite citizens' suggestions and objections to it. This is according to the process laid out in the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act. We followed the same process for the previously-released DP.“
 
 An official from the municipal secretary's office said the proposal is scheduled to come up in the House on October 12 for approval. “It is likely that the proposal would be passed as it only seeks approval to put the plan out in the public domain and get citizens' feedback,“ the official said.
 
 For the entire city's DP, a total of 266 amendments have been proposed by various political leaders and over 2,000 recommendations have been made by the planning committee.
 
