MANGALURU: Sleuths of regional unit of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Wednesday busted a   with the arrest of two persons including a carrier. The racket entailed luring international air passengers to smuggle   using ingenious means to hoodwink scanning machines of customs at   airport, and hand it to smugglers outside once the contraband got past the customs, Vinayak Bhat, deputy director, DRI said.

 Based on tip-off that a carrier had landed at MIA from Dubai, DRI sleuths rushed to Mahavir (Pumpwell) Circle. Even as they waited, an Alto car came at high speed around 9.45am and stopped next to the IOC petrol bunk. A person waiting nearby went towards the vehicle and there was some negotiation between him and the person in the vehicle.
 
 DRI sleuths on strong suspicion surrounded and intercepted the duo. Preliminary enquiries revealed that the person in the car was Haris Panalam Mohammed Kunhi, who had just arrived from Dubai. After coming out of MIA, Haris had directly come to Pumpwell Circle. Even the baggage tags were intact on the cartons which were kept on the rear seat of the car.
 
 The person waiting near the bunk for Haris was Faisal. Since they had no reasonable explanation about business being transacted by them at the said place, they were brought to DRI office. On examination of Haris’ baggage, it was found that gold was concealed inside a portable wireless  . Detailed examination and testing resulted in the recovery and seizure of 698.2 grams of 24 carat gold plates of foreign origin valued at Rs 20,24,780.
 
 The smugglers in an attempt to avoid detection during customs check at MIA had melted and molded the gold into thin plates and then cut them into the shapes of letters ‘E’ and ‘I’. These ‘E’ and ‘I’ shaped gold plates were then coated with mercury and tightly packed to fit into the transformer (coil) portion of the amplifier, Vinayak Bhat said.
 
 During the course of investigation, Haris and Faisal admitted to smuggling gold and receiving the same. Haris told investigators that he agreed to carry the amplifier with gold plates concealed inside it for the lure of money and free air tickets from Dubai to Mangaluru. After customs clearance, he had instructions to hand it over to Faisal who would be waiting near Pumpwell Circle.
 
 Faisal admitted that it was not his first time and that he has earned commissions for delivery of the smuggled gold and carrying it to Kasargod where it would once again switch hands and through another agent reach the kingpin of the racket. The duo were arrested under Section 104 of the Customs Act 1962 and produced before CJM, Mangaluru, who remanded them to 10 days of judicial custody.
 
 Though, the arrests have put a temporary brake on smuggling operations, they are likely to resume after few days of lull unless key members of the gang are apprehended, Vinayak Bhat said adding investigations have been intensified to reach the top rung operators of the smuggling racket. Customs officials recently seized gold that was attempted to be smuggled in a similar manner.
 
