GALLE: The reaction from both the camps, after India thrashed Sri Lanka to win the first Test at the   by 304 runs, was contrasting.

 Having finished the game a day early, the Indian players were 'rewarded' with a trip to 'Amari Galle,' a beautiful resort located within walking distance of the team hotel here. The resort, launched just a month back, saw   & Co unwind for around four hours (11 to 3pm) by chilling out in the massive swimming pool and playing beach volleyball. "They had a mix of Indian, western and SouthEast Asian food, before clicking a few selfies with our chef, who's from India," said  , the resort manager.
 
  
  
 With plenty of free time at their disposal, Kohli and his 'boys' have been busy playing 'Fifa PlayStation' in their rooms.
 
 The Sri Lankan players, on the other hand, were given a "dressing down" by Cricket Sri Lanka (SLC) chief   soon after the rout on Saturday. As per his orders, the hosts underwent a rigorous practice session at the ground here on Sunday, which was supposed to be the fifth day of the first Test.
 
 Both teams now move to Colombo on Monday for the second Test, which begins at the SSC from August 3.
 
 
 
 
 The series here is being closely watched by Dharamveer Singh Yadav, the regional representative of the International Cricket Council's (ICC). The 'sleuth,' who reports to ICC Chief Executive David Richardson is staying in the same hotel as the Indian team. Yadav sits in the stands in disguise and reports suspicious activity if he finds any.
 
 He doesn't go on every tour with the Indian team, but seems to have been specifically deputed here by the ICC after a few incidents of corruption have in Sri Lanka.Early last year, Sri Lanka suspended its bowling coach   for two months and sacked a part-time employee and net bowler Gayan Vishwajith over alleged attempts at bribing players to under-perform in a Test to ensure a surprise win for the West Indies.
 
 It was also reported that an unnamed man linked to a bookie had offered wicketkeeper   and veteran bowler Rangana Herath around 10 million rupees (around $70,000) to lose that game. The duo had refused the offer, and Sri Lanka beat the tourists by an innings and six runs. 
 
 
