CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that any decision of the   ( ) is not beyond judicial review in an order with huge ramifications, especially for the group housing societies constructed by it.

 The court passed these orders while setting aside the decision of AWHO disbanding the Ad hoc User Committee (AUC) and holding fresh elections for Residents Welfare Association (RWA) to run `Vikram Vihar'-an AWHO constructed group housing society comprising 483 dwelling units in Sector 27 of Panchkula.
 
 “The circumstances that the AWHO is manned by Army officersdeputationists as per the letter dated May 11, 1982, issued by the ministry of defence and the management of the welfare organization is not purely a private body with no public duty but it is required to discharge public functions...... as such the writ in my opinion would be maintainable in the cases where there is glaring abuse of discretion while discharging a public function,“, observed the court while setting aside the decision of the AWHO in its orders released on Saturday .
 
 The 21-pages detailed judgment passed by   also observed, “There is an element of official discre tion which is certainly guided by the rule of natural justice, equity and fair play. Merely because it is debatable that it would fall under the authority under Article 12 of the Constitution of India, any decision of AWHO is not beyond the judicial review when there is a glaring arbitrariness in any order With these orders, the six members of AUC, originally formed in 2014, shall continue to run the society but the AWHO would be allowed to hold election for four members of AUC, who had resigned from the committee.
 
 The matter reached court in September 2015, on a petition fil September 2015, on a petition filed by Adhoc User Committee against adjutant general of Army and others. Aftab Singh Khara, counsel for petitioner body , informed the court that as per rules, an Adhoc Users Committee was formed by AWHO in 2014 from the members of the society for maintenance till completion of project. Rules say a permanent RWA could be formed only after completion of project. Khara submitted that AUC pointed out many defects in the project and, as a result of it , AWHO was displeased and ordered for holding elections of fresh body by dissolving their committee.AWHO, on the other hand, pleaded it is a society registered under a statutory Act. Its projects are self-financing and no government funds are involved. It being not a state instrument under Article 12 of Constitution, the petition is liable to be dismissed as not maintainable, it argued. It also questioned locus standi of petitioner.
 
 Observing “glaring breach of rules of natural justice“, court said circumstances of the present case warranted its interference, as the matter had to be decided by AWHO after giving a fair opportunity to the members of the elected committee.
 
