NEW DELHI: From October commuters will have to shell out more for parking their vehicles — during peak hours — at commercial centres or even near their homes.

 The Delhi government is planning to notify the   Rules 2017 by the end of this month. The rules will be based on the provisions of the draft parking policy for Delhi, which is being finalised at the moment. The parking rules will give teeth to the provisions of the parking policy and make them enforceable, assigning responsibility to different agencies such as the municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi traffic police, transport department etc.
 
 “We have already finished working on the draft parking policy, which will now be discussed next week by the special committee constituted by the Delhi government,” said a government official. “The committee will finalise the rules, which have been designed to implement the policy,” he added.
 
 Apart from officials of the transport department and Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System, the committee, which is headed by Om Prakash Agarwal, CEO of World Resources Institute (WRI), also has Anumita Roychowdhury of the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE).
 
 Once the committee finalises the draft parking rules, it will be reviewed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for approval at a meeting also scheduled next week. 
 
 “We are trying to get the parking rules notified as soon as possible once it gets the required permissions. We are hopeful of notifying the rules by the end of September, after which it will become enforceable,” the official said.
 
 “The exact parking charges for different categories are yet to be fixed. We will also take into account the suggestions and observations received on the draft parking policy. There has been some stiff resistance to the provision of day-time parking charges in residential areas,” the official added.
 
 The Delhi parking rules will be framed under provisions of Section 138 of Motor Vehicles Act, which confers power upon state governments to make rules, which includes maintenance and management of parking places and the fees that may be charged for their use.
 
 The parking policy, on which the rules are going to be based, aims to rationalise parking charges to keep them fixed in proportion to the price of land used — keeping in mind the acute shortage of land in the capital. The areas that have been specifically identified for policy interventions in the draft are rationalisation of parking charges, parking in commercial and residential areas, parking management on roadsides, enforcement issues, increasing use of technology for efficient parking management etc.
 
 The policy includes provisions such as day time parking charges in residential areas, making parking on footpath a cognizable offence, on street parking only on designated roads after payment of parking charges, incremental parking charges in commercial areas etc.
 
 
