NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has within 48 hours arrested the man who allegedly raped a 26-year-old woman inside Deer Park at   on Sunday. The accused, Raja alias General (20), works as a cleaner at a pub in the area, police said.

 Raja, who is a Class V dropout, has been sent to   after being remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by a magistrate. Initially, the accused claimed to be a juvenile but the cops managed to lay their hands on a certificate that said he was born in 1998. Joint commissioner (south-eastern range) R P Upadhyay said the police will file a chargesheet in the case within a month.
 
 Raja has told the cops that he and a distant relative had been drinking before they went out that night. They befriended the victim and her sister who were on their way home from a pub in Hauz Khas Village. While the survivor’s sister left with one of them who volunteered to drop her home, she herself fell for the ruse that a car was parked on the other side of the park and they could take a shortcut to reach it. Once inside the park, he assaulted and raped her and fled with her iphone.
 
 The case was cracked as the police managed to spot the suspect’s relative in a CCTV footage at Munirka. Initially, that was the only clue for the police. Later, the survivor’s sister gave more details about the description of the men like the accused’s coloured hair, height and thin built. The survivor also gave the police an important clue -- the accused was wearing a watch which glowed in the dark.
 
 “Fifteen teams led by addl DCP Chinmoy Biswal conducted raids using the CCTV grab of the suspect’s associate. A sketch with description details of the accused was circulated among beat officers as well,” said DCP (south) Ishwar Singh.
 
 One of the teams also worked on electronic surveillance to identify numbers which were active in Hauz Khas and Munirka. The accused’s associate was identified first and detained for questioning from Humayunpur area on Sunday evening. He took the cops to the block in Arjun Nagar where the accused lived.
 
 By night, beat officers were conducting door-to-door survey to identify the accused when an informer guided them to the man who was sitting on the roadside smoking a beedi. He was brought to the police station, questioned and arrested in the early hours of Tuesday. 
 
 TOI had reported on Tuesday that there were two main leads that helped the police crack the case. While one line of probe was aimed at identifying a man with a head injury as the woman had hit her assailant on the head during the scuffle, the other centred around the man seen in the CCTV footage.
 
