CHENNAI: Luxury on Indian roads is back to being big and beautiful. Luxe car brands' love affair with the compact segment seems to be driving towards an end as Indians largely stick to SUVs and sedans for their premium wheels. While compact SUVs are still selling well -- as part of the huge shift towards SUVs on Indian roads -- the compact luxury hatchback hasn't been as successful as it was earlier expected to be. Although it was expected to attract a younger car buyer to the luxe marques, the Indian obsession with size-for-price has ensured that hatches are preferred only in the mass market segments.

 Mercedes Benz, which launched a four-model offensive in the compact segment with its A Class, B Class, CLA and GLA four years ago, now extracts 20-25% of its sales from the compact range even as its SUVs are roaring with 40% sales share and sedans make a comeback with 35%. Other luxe brands are also showing similar trends.  's 1 Series simply hasn't packed the punch that X1 did and   took a decision not to bring in its hatch products A1 and A3 hatchback at all. “We had a different strategy by not entering hatchbacks at first and it has paid off. Our market studies have revealed that luxury still means a sedan/ crossover/ SUV for customers in the Indian market,” said Rahil Ansari, Head Audi India. Indeed company officials maintain that despite rumours of the A1 debuting in India, it is not likely to happen.
 
 For luxe car market leader Mercedes Benz, traditional favourite E Class is "our best-selling model this year.” "India is still a conservative market with preference for sedans and 35% of our sales come from that segment. Then there’s a shift towards SUV which comprise 40% of our sales volumes and that segment is growing. As for the compact cars — A, B, CLA, GLA--the last two were key contributors to our growth last year. The compact contribution is 20-25%," said Michael Jopp, VP-marketing & sales   India.
 
 Interestingly compact sedans too have found favour in India though may be not as much as SUVs. “We launched the Q3 way back in 2012 and we have sold more than 13,000 units till date,” said Ansari. “The   sedan too has become a popular choice for first time luxury car and Audi Q3 and Audi A3 sedan, together, contribute between 30-35% to our total sales.” 
 
 The first half of calendar 2017 has been good for luxury car brands with Mercedes Benz totting up 7171 units, up nearly 9%. BMW clocked 4589 units, up 11.5%.
 
 
