 has defied odds in her music career and the singer lately took another bold decision in life, calling off her wedding with Bahrain-based Santhosh who had demanded that she quit her career for marriage. 

 Those expecting a shaken voice from a woman who has just broken off her engagement would be in for a surprise as the two-time State Award winner confidently tells us, “I feel relaxed and I know that I have taken the right decision.”
 
 The singer, who performs in at least 20 venues in different parts of India and abroad in a month besides recording songs in 
 , 
  and 
 , says she’s clear about her vision and purpose in life. She’s now gearing up to set a world record as the fastest musician to play 51 songs in Gayathri Veena. Vijayalakshmi, who has set a model for many who think a woman’s career comes to a halt after marriage, opens up in this candid chat:
 
 
 Before the engagement we had agreed on a few things, especially that I would be continuing singing post wedding. My fiance had also promised to support me to reach greater heights in my career. However that changed after the engagement. He asked me to stop going for music concerts and give up my career as a playback singer. He told me, “What guarantee do you have on how long you will get offers from films and also for concerts? It is better you find a job as a music teacher. At least, you will get pension after retirement.” 
 
  Earlier, he told my parents that he will be joining our family as a son as he doesn’t have parents. We were really happy about it as I am very much accustomed to my household and it would also be easy for me to continue singing and further studies. It is not that I did not like to settle in his native place, Thrissur, but my visual handicap will make it really tough for me.
 
 
 
 I did and I realised that we will never be compatible and also it will hinder my musical journey. It was my decision to call off the wedding and I will never regret it. Music is my life. I had surrendered my heart and soul to it and when a time came where I had to choose music or him, I opted for music because it is an integral part of me and has made me what I am today. My parents gave me complete freedom to take the final call. And I decided to break it off.
 
 
 
 I am relieved and relaxed. I cannot explain the tension I was going through all these days. My fiance’s family came down on Wednesday and I told them my decision. I am at peace now with myself and feel liberated to an extent. I have greater things to do in my life.
 
 
 
 Marriage is a union between two human beings, not between an owner and a slave. Each person has their own dreams and I don’t think a girl should give that up when she gets married to someone. Instead she should have a person in her life, who will support her to achieve it. The couple should grow together rather than impose one's ideas on each other. I realised in my relationship it will not happen... And also I did not want to waste my energy on this anymore.
 
 
 
 It is going on. The medical procedure has 100 stages and right now the treatment is at the 11th stage. I am able to see shades of people and objects. I see more light and hazy images. Hope it will improve as we complete each stage.
 
 
 
 I am studying MA Music as correspondence in Kerala University, Trivandrum and I want to complete it. Also, I want to learn more genres of music and explore my skills. I have sung for Jayaraj sir’s Veeram. I have also recorded songs for Jayaram’s Sathya, Melle, Odunnavan and Gandhinagaril Unniyarcha. I will also be singing at concerts across the globe.
 
