LUCKNOW: Defeated by his son, veteran Samajwadi leader   Yadav has very limited options left. Will he bow down before   and end his illustrious political career as a defeated general? Or, he still has the gumption to fight back?

 Although, there was no clear signal from the Mulayam camp till late on Monday night about its next move, experts day that the disenfranchised SP has virtually no card left to play. Mulayam is out of time to float a new regional party on his own as the process takes a month at the minimum and there is no time for such a course of action. He can “acquire” an existing party and set up candidates but he will be handicapped by the lack of time in publicising such an outfit and its symbol.
 
 The other, perhaps not very palatable option given the bitterness that has marked the family feud, is to accept the Akhilesh camp’s terms that include removing brother Shivpal and close aide Amar Singh from all prominence. It would also mean reconciling to the return of cousin Ram Gopal whom Mulayam blames for “instigating” Akhilesh. 
 
 If these possibilities do not work out, Mulayam may find himself severely disadvantaged in the elections as his nominees will then be forced to contest on different symbols allotted to independent candidates in various constituencies.
 
 On the other hand, the emergence of Akhilesh as a powerful leader within the party is likely to put a seal on the future of Shivpal who was his chief rival during the entire controversy. While Akhilesh has always shown due respect for his father, so far he has shown no flexibility towards both Shivpal and Amar.
 
 The number of visitors to the bungalows of Mulayam and Shivpal thinned as soon as the EC verdict came out on Monday evening. Contrary to this, the official residence of the chief minister witnessed a large turnout of supporters to celebrate his rise as the undisputed leader of the party.
 
 Later, when Akhilesh went to seek Mulayam’s blessings, the latter is learnt to have blessed him, but did not disclose his future course of action. As of now, Mulayam is having very little options before him even if he decides to take on his son as not only he lacks support within the party and outside where he would not find allies very easily.
 
 
