THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The relatives of the late BTech student  , including his mother   Ashokan and 15-year-old sister Avishna, ended their   on Sunday, after getting a written assurance from the government that their demands would be met.

 Jishnu’s death and the subsequent hunger strike had raised a political storm in the state besides triggering debates on different fora, including the social media.
 
 The student’s relatives decided to call off the hunger strike after a daylong hectic parleys, which saw the active involvement of   general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran.
 
 Chief minister  , who was in Kochi, spoke to Mahija over the phone and assured her of stern action in the case.
 
 Meanwhile, a police team from Thrissur arrested the third accused, M K Sakthivel, the vice-principal of the Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre (NCERC), Pambady, where Jishnu had been studying.
 
 The absconding man was picked up from Annur near Coimbatore and later brought to Thrissur and was being interrogated at the Police Club.
 
 Sakthivel reportedly told the police that Praveen, who was the invigilator in the examination hall, reported to him that Jishnu had copied. The college decided not to report Jishnu to the university so that his academic future would not be jeopardised. Police are now hunting for Praveen.
 
 The student was found hanging in the bathroom of his college hostel on January 6. Police had said it was a suicide.
 
 Jishnu’s father Ashokan and uncle Sreejith, while announcing the family’s decision to call off the strike, said the government had assured to ensure punishment to all those responsible for their boy’s death. The government also vowed to act against any police officer found guilty in the April 5 incidents outside the police headquarters, which took the sheen out of the state’s celebration of the 60th anniversary of the first communist government.
 
 “This is the victory of the people of Kerala. This is the victory of democracy,” said Sreejith.
 
 They also said the government has agreed to drop conspiracy charges slapped on SUCI leaders M Shajir Khan, wife Mini and S Sreekumar. The family, however, said activist K M Shajahan and Himaval Bhadrananda, who were also arrested, were not known to them.
 
 Shajahan’s mother L Thankamma, 79, began a fast on Sunday morning. “I won’t take food until my son comes out of jail,” she said.
 
 Earlier, Kanam Rajendran’s visit to the medical college hospital where Mahija has been admitted indicated that the protest was nearing an end. After speaking to Mahija and Sreejith, the CPI leader briefed CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.
 
 Meanwhile, special public prosecutor in the case, advocate C P Udayabhanu and state attorney  , reached Thiruvananthapuram from Kochi on a government directive.
 
 Both of them spoke to Jishnu’s family. Chief minister’s private secretary M V Jayarajan and political secretary Puthalath Dinesan coordinated the talks at the government level.
 
 The political leadership, however, took some time to meet the demand for a written agreement, mentioning the government’s promises. The written agreement was approved by 9pm, and by 9.20pm, the hunger strike was called off.
 
 Mahila Congress leaders Bindu Krishna, Shanimol Usman and Lathika Subhash, who began a hunger strike expressing solidarity with Mahija on Sunday morning, called off the fast by 10pm.
 
 
