KOLKATA: Bhangar villagers on Saturday stopped a marching police contingent from stepping into   with a warning that they will cut off roads again. With police refusing to provoke the agitated villagers further, the stand-off in the afternoon laid bare the fact that the uneasy calm in Bhangar veils a seething anger. Police stuck to route marches on the main thoroughfares, avoiding the village roads.

 The local Trinamool leadership tried to make most of the twin developments — the state’s decision not to convert agricultural land to homestead land without cabinet nod and a massive advertisement blitz by   to dispel the misnomers about the project — but the results were not immediately visible on the ground. With the police sporadically marching on the  , Saturday’s endeavour was their first attempt to enter deep into the villages.
 
 But at Machhi Bhanga, they were stopped. “Why do you need to enter the villages, and our homes? We are in peace here. If you enter, that will ignite things further. People haven’t yet forgotten how our homes were ransacked, people were beaten up and arrested on January 17,” a villager told the cops. As police tried to reason that they were only there to reach out to the villagers, the villagers said they were better off without them. Allegations of brutality by cops, along with Trinamool-backed goons, had turned Bhangar into a battlefield with villagers forcing police to flee.
 
 A leader of the Jami, Jibika, Bastutantra O   said, “Though the brunt of the anger is being faced by police, the real fear of the villagers is that Trinamool goons who have been grabbing land at gunpoint will return using police as a shield. This is something they want to prevent at any cost. Any such act will lead to fresh brutalities against villagers. The people have already seen the Trinamool leaders flexing their muscles under the guise of reaching out to villagers and maintaining peace,” he said. “Unless steps are taken against these leaders, it is difficult to win over the people.”
 
 The Power Grid’s ad blitz, which claimed that the villagers didn’t face any health hazards and nor did their crops, had a tepid fallout. The PSU claimed four meters off the wires was a safe-zone and it had the wires at nine feet. The PSU claimed that 90% of the project is complete, urging the stakeholders to help finish it.
 
