NEW DELHI: A businessman driving his   was waylaid by occupants of another car and thrashed with baseball bats on February 9 in Model Town. The SUV was snatched.

 The victim, Rahul Mehandiratta, was critical for four days with serious head wounds and a fractured arm, and underwent surgery on Monday. Delhi Police’s crime branch arrested two of the assailants and detained two juveniles, and the lid on an organised carjacking racket was lifted in the process. 
 
 In just a week this month, the four snatched five cars and battered their drivers/owners. 
 
 Mehandiratta told TOI, “I was going home from my salon around 9.45pm when a car hit me and its occupants started demanding Rs 2,000. I asked them to bring their car to my shop the day after and offered to repair it. The road was isolated. All of a sudden, one of them grabbed me by the neck and another started hitting me with a baseball bat. They then snatched the car keys and fled. I called up my wife and father who came and rushed me to the hospital.” 
 
 That same evening, the   looted an i20 from Mangolpuri after thrashing the driver. They also took away the man’s iPhone 6s. An hour later, they snatched a brand new Baleno from Rani Bagh. Earlier on February 3, the gang had snatched a Honda City from a businessman in Mianwali Nagar. 
 
 Joint CP (crime) Ravindra Yadav said, “All five cars—Fortuner, Ford Endeavour, i20, Honda City and Baleno—have been recovered. The minors were produced before the juvenile justice board and sent to a reformation centre. We are investigating the case and still trying to find out if they were involved in other cases as well.”
 
 Explaining the operation, Yadav said a special team under DCP Madhur Verma was formed to track this gang. Then, head constable Himanshu received information that the   would come to a CGHS dispensary in Rohini Sector 16 in a looted Fortuner to meet their associates and plan another loot.
 
 “Accordingly, a team comprising assistant commissioner of police D P Singh and others laid a trap and nabbed a suspect, later identified as Lakshya Shokeen. He led to the recovery of another Baleno from Mangolpuri and a Honda City from Majnu ka Tilla. During interrogation, he revealed the identity of his three associates and details about his other crimes. On his disclosure, Deepak Changa was arrested and the Endeavour recovered,” Yadav added.
 
 In further raids, the two juveniles were apprehended and the other cars recovered. 
 
 
