KOLKATA/BALURGHAT: Chief minister   Banerjee is likely to call on Congress chief   Gandhi in Delhi later this month to help the latter weave together a larger opposition unity for the coming presidential elections.

 A senior Trinamool Congress leader, while refusing to spell out exact timelines, confirmed the visit. “Didi will visit Delhi soon, possibly this month. Soniaji has been in touch with her personally,” he said. It may not be a coincidence that the Trinamool core committee meeting, where Banerjee is likely to talk about the presidential elections, has been postponed from May 6 to 19. This, say party insiders, gives her a little more time to study the possible alliances shaping up in Delhi.
 
 Trinamool leaders said the Congress president’s invite to the Bengal chief minister came “very recently”.
 
 The development comes a day after non-NDA party leaders, including those from JD(U), CPI and CPM, convened at socialist icon Madhu Limaye’s 95th anniversary celebrations in New Delhi to discuss the prospects of such a formation.
 
 The Congress invite for the Trinamool chief follows Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi voicing his wish that CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury contest the Rajya Sabha polls from Bengal despite knowing that the Left Front does not have the numbers in the West Bengal Assembly and would have to depend on Congress votes.
 
 But this Congress-Left bonhomie may not come in the way of opposition unity in the presidential polls because of the sheer numbers that the Trinamool has and others do not have. The party, with 65,718 electoral college votes, holds a 6.13% chunk that is the third-largest after the NDA and UPA blocks and may become a deciding factor if the NDA, on its own, falls short of the 50% mark.
 
 Banerjee, confident of the numbers, hit out at the BJP at a public meeting in Balurghat on Wednesday. “They (BJP) are trying to scare everybody. They are threatening me with CBI and ED as we are speaking for people and against their policies. They can arrest all our leaders, including me, but that would not deter us from speaking out against them,” Banerjee said, referring to the CBI’s FIR in the Narada case, in which 13 of her party leaders stand accused. Eleven of the 13 can vote in the presidential polls.
 
 The CPM, too, is aware of the reality; its central committee left the choice open-ended in its recent meeting, stating that it would work for a common secular candidate without party affiliations for the president’s post.
 
 The Bengal CM, however, has been at it since her last Delhi visit. She broke bread with a host of non-NDA leaders and met Congress and NCP and Shiv Sena MPs and reached out to even Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, strongly pitching for all parties opposing the BJP to come together for the presidential polls.
 
 
