Kolhapur: Over 100   in 100 schools fall in the   category, revealed a report from the district primary education department.

 Around 1,000 students of such schools are being taught in the veranda of the school or other places like a temple or the gram panchayat office.
 
 Subhash Chougule, district primary education officer told TOI, “We had conducted a survey regarding the dangerous school buildings earlier this summer. Its findings have been gathered now.”
 
 He added that Rs 2.54 crore has been granted by the district planning committee (DPC) for repairing the schools and it will start once the monsoon gets over.
 
 “The classrooms are in a very bad condition, so much so that we might as well demolish them. Till then for the students’ safety, we are keeping them in nearby places say veranda or a temple or the gram panchayat office,” he said.
 
 He added that many of the classrooms are over 40 years old and are in dire need of repairs.
 
 “We will start repair work after monsoon, so that consistent showers do not ruin the  . We are planning to construct new classrooms by demolishing all the old and dangerous ones,” he added.
 
 Education activist Sattappa Mohite said “The education department should have completed the repair work before the monsoon, so that the students wouldn’t be inconvenienced.”
 
 It may be noted that there are 10 infrastructure requirements, like boundary wall, toilets, water facility, kitchen shed, playground, etc, which every school has to fulfil to be recognised by the education department under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. According to the district primary education department report only 664 schools, out of 2,002 comply with the required norms.
 
 Interestingly in September 2013, the state had directed all district education officers to form high-powered committees under the chairmanship of district collectors for effective implementation of RTE infrastructural norms. The state had set a deadline of December 2013 to achieve 100% compliance. The decision was taken after it was found that many schools were not complying with the Act's provisions. However, conditions have not changed even after four years.
 
 
