GUWAHATI: The   (NIA), Guwahati, on Thursday filed the first supplementary chargesheet in the 2014 massacre of seven villagers by Bodo militants at Balapara in Kokrajhar district. 

 The central investigation agency, which took over probe of the killings, has charged   alias B Rongjabaja alias Rabi, an active rebel of the  , under various sections of the IPC and the UA (P) Act.
 
 On May 1, 2014, a group of Bodo militants reached Balapara Part-I village at 11.30pm and began firing indiscriminately at villagers in which seven persons, including four women and two children, were killed.
 
 "Our probe has found that Rabi and several other Bodo militants, acting under the instruction of the outfit's leader IK Songbijit and G Bidai, killed the villagers as part of a conspiracy to spread fear and panic in the area. Rabi was arrested in September last year. After collecting adequate evidence to prove his complicity in the case, we submitted our first supplementary chargesheet," NIA sources said.
 
 The NIA's special court here has taken cognizance of the document.
 
 The investigation revealed that Rabi, Pradip Brahma, Gwlao Brahma, Dwngra Brahma and others had not only planned, but been were actively involved in the killings too. Pradip Brahma alias Pwler, self-styled section commander of NDFB-S's 14th battalion in the Dhubri sector, has already been convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.
 
 "They (the militants) had procured SIM cards against fake documents. Rabi, Pradip and the others even called back their leaders and gave details about the whole incident," NIA sources said.
 
 Earlier, police's Special Task Force (STF) had arrested one Ruken Brahma in connection with the incident. Due to unavailability of concrete evidence, he was granted bail.
 
 Meanwhile, NIA, Delhi, has registered a case against Manipur-based outfit  's commander-in-chief Khoirom Ranjit Singh alias Rocky alias Great Macha and his aide   who were arrested from NH-24, near Mayur Vihar, Phase-I, New Delhi on Sunday.
 
