NAGPUR:   of Khwaja Garib Nawaz (KGN) society located in Borgaon got their plots back on Tuesday.

 Corporator Nitish Gwalbanshi, whose family members are accused in land grab case, had on May 3 assured victims before assistant commissioner of police ( ) Somnath Waghchoure of the Sadar police station that he would return their plots on May 9.
 
 Accordingly, he sent his aide Prashant Mendhe who demarcated the plots and handed over the possession, one of the plotholders informed TOI.
 
 Later, they all went to the Sadar ACP’s office. They were verbally assured that the conflict had been solved and they would start the construction.
 
  said Nitish had claimed that plots belonged to him before KGN society was formed and he had restrained victims from building houses on the said land. After seven days, he gave up his possession and returned the lands to seven victims, named as Sangeeta Badole, Tarun Kumar Bose, Vinay Sinha, Shakuntala Dongre, Shubham Mahalle and Sanjay Bansod.
 
 “I advised victims to inform   (NIT) officials about the development and have their plots measured again to avoid complications in future. I also asked them to call me if they faced any problem during construction,” ACP Waghchoure told TOI.
 
 The officer said the victims, after fighting for several years, were very happy with the outcome.
 
 One of the victims said, “We were told to contact our respective lawyers who would discuss the development with Nitish’s lawyer and they will inform the court as it had stayed construction following the dispute.” 
 
 Tarun Kumar Bose’s son informed Nitish had assured to give possession but for official clearance he asked us to visit his office. Victims were anticipating 'written assurance' which they probably would get on Wednesday.
 
 It is learnt that both Nitish and KGN society were staking claim over the same land. Both parties approached the civil court which stayed all construction and where the dispute is still pending.
 
 Following court stay, Nitish had thrown out construction material of victims and fenced the boundary about a decade ago. He had also put up a board saying the land belonged to him. It was guarded by goons who did not allow victims to visit their plots.
 
