On Thursday night, loads of luxury products, international merchandise, bouquets and cakes arrived at birthday boy  's residence just before his star-studded bash kicked off around 9:30pm. The 45-year old filmmaker insisted that all he wanted was love... and for people to be kinder, nicer and more compassionate. 

  
  
 While many of his guests weren't sure if the birthday boy was serious or sarcastic, as the spirits flowed into the night, the thumkas got braver and the music got louder, there was plenty of love going around at his Bandra residence. For a change, Shah Rukh Khan arrived early and clinked glasses with son Aryan. The father-son duo also posed for pictures with Saif Ali Khan's daughter, Sara. Daddy Cool then got chatty with the other guests, but Aryan and Sara still had plenty to catch up on. Gauri Khan later joked that the average age at the party was 20.   was rushing to catch a flight and dropped by for exactly 15 minutes. 
 
 The other Khan, Salman, couldn't make it. But his friend-co-star Katrina Kaif was there, under the same roof as ex-beau   and arch-rival  . Ranbir Kapoor greeted both of them gracefully, as did friends Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora who had no problem being snapped together enjoying themselves at the party.
 
 Fresh off the Cannes boat, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, along with husband Abhishek, was among the last of the guests to leave. Varun Dhawan and girlfriend Natasha Dalal were a happy twosome, as were Alia Bhatt and steady date Sidharth Malhotra and 'good friends' Tiger Shroff and Disha Patani. All three couples were comfortable in each other's presence. Hrithik Roshan and ex-wife Sussanne Khan arrived separately but stayed close through the night.
 
 Three cakes were cut as the celebrity crowd, which also included Sanjay and Maanayata Dutt, Anushka Sharma, Sonam Kapoor, Farhan Akhtar, Ekta Kapoor and Rana Daggubati, gathered around. Missing in action were Karan Johar's close friends Kareena Kapoor and Ranveer Singh. But Deepika Padukone made heads turn in an LBD with mesh detail. Also present were Shahid Kapoor, Sushant Singh Rajput, who escorted co-star and close friend Kriti Sanon as she made her exit from the party, Ritiesh Deshmukh, Harshvardhan Kapoor who arrived with his Bhavesh Joshi   Vikramaditya Motwane, Nimrat Kaur, and Tabu, who arrived with Farah Khan. Manish Malhotra, who took a selfie with Jhanvi Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, described the youngsters as 'super girls'.
 
  Khanna, looking gorgeous in a nautical dress, made a showstopping entrance with National Award winning actor-husband Akshay Kumar. They were mobbed as they stepped out of their car.Akshay instantly switched to the role of a protective bodyguard, throwing an arm around his biwi. Karan Johar commented on how splendid his bestie looked, delighted that she'd put in some extra effort for his special day. For once, the Khiladi Kumar stayed on way past his bedtime. Despite extra security the street outside Karan Johar's home was packed with fans and the paparazzi till sunrise.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
