LUCKNOW: As the battle for Uttar Pradesh’s electoral crown gets fierce, all the three big players–Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party– are depending on alliances to sail through the last two phases of elections, which will go to polls on March 4 and 8. Poll analysts say jittery over their success in the eastern part of the state,   are rallying behind small castes and community-based outfits for support. 

 Even BSP supremo Mayawati, who had earlier said that her party would contest the elections alone, did go back on her words to tie-up with mafia-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s Quami Ekta Dal (QED). She also got support from the Rashtriya Ulema Council (RUC). As both QED and RUC have influence in Muslim-dominated constituencies, the alliances will help Mayawati strengthen her Dalit-Muslim combination in many seats. In fact, the BSP chief even agreed to give tickets to Ansari as well his as brother and his son on seats of their choice, replacing candidates announced earlier.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP is betting on Hindu consolidation to woo non-Yadav backward classes and non-Jatav Dalits. It has allied with Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), which holds considerable influence over the Rajbhar community, which is a most-backward class, and Kurmi-dominated Apna Dal (Sonelal) faction. 
 
 Analysts said at present, apart from state president Keshav Maurya, the saffron party doesn’t have any backward class leaders with state-wide appeal. Hence, apart from forming alliances with caste-based parties, it has also given tickets to backward class leaders like Swami Prasad Maurya, who have defected from other parties.
 
 Incidentally, SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbahr, AD (S) founder late Sonelal Patel and Swami Prasad Maurya were former BSP leaders. Further, BJP had been opposing Mukhtar Ansari for long to mobilise Hindus, but instead of fielding its own candidate against him, it has given the seat to SBSP, given the Rajbhar community’s strong presence in the constituency. 
 
 Desperate to repeat its performance in the 2012 assembly elections, SP has tied up with Congress just before the elections in a bid to sway Muslim voters in the region. The two parties have claimed that the alliance was necessary to stop communal forces like BJP coming to power in the state. They also have the support of Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janta Dal and Janta Dal (United). RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav is campaigning for the alliance, trying to influence voters in constituencies bordering Bihar.
 
 
