KOLKATA: If all goes according to plan, the   will get extended to   and the airport by June, 2018. That is also the deadline for Phase-I of the   and the stretches between Joka and Majerhat and Kavi Subhash and Hemendra Mukherjee. On Wednesday, when Union finance minister Arun Jaitley tables his   — that will include the Railways budget — in Parliament, people in Kolkata will be all ears on whether sufficient allocations have been made for these projects.

 “It now looks like a farce. Every year, we hear that money has been allotted for Metro projects but there is little progress. It is a shame that Delhi has a network spanning over 200 km but Kolkata, where the first underground train ran, hasn’t crossed the 30km mark yet,” said Subrata Mukherjee, a retired schoolteacher. 
 
 Metro officials, however, say that work is progressing fast and the deadlines will be met. According to one of them, funds were never a problem. The main issue was non-availability of land that has been resolved. 
 
 “Over the last 12 months, things have looked positive. The state government has taken a lot of interest in clearing land. With funds from the state government, the Baranagar and Kamarhati municipalities have also done their bits to resettle encroachers. In the past, funds had to be returned as we couldn’t spend them. Hopefully, this won’t happen now,” the official said. 
 
 In 2016-17, the allotment for four Kolkata Metro projects was Rs 517.98 crore. Of this, Rs 247.99 crore is for the New Garia-Airport (via Rajarhat) line. The Baranagar-Barrackpore Dakshineswar stretch received only Rs 55 crore. This may have seemed paltry but none of the projects had been able to spend the previous allocations and it would not have made much sense in announcing more funds. This year, officials hope for more allocations as progress has been good. 
 
 While nobody expects a fare hike this year, suburban passengers, particularly in Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division, will look forward to announcements that will help in improving services. Punctuality is a serious problem in this division. “Trains rarely run on time. As a result, trains get crowded and it is extremely uncomfortable. It is pathetic during the summers,” banker Sukumar Sarkar said.
 
 According to Railways officials, more attention needs to be paid to capacity augmentation in the Sealdah division. 
 
 A rail flyover has been planned to streamline operations but officials aren’t sure about its completion. 
 
 
