NAGPUR: Remembering their old  , more than 100   of St. John High School celebrated their reunion at M’s Repose, Shreeram Tower on Saturday. The reunion was organized by the 1993 batch of St. John, as a part of bringing together alumnus of school for strengthening bonds between former students and the school. Sandip Dutta, one of the alumni and organizer of programme, said, “It was my dream to carry out a reunion of all the former students of our school. I am really happy now that I am able to bring some of them together”. Former students from batches of 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994 participated in the programme.

 “We have carried out many such programmes at our school, it is the first time we are celebrating reunion outside school premises. In the coming days we hope more programmes to be held in school as we have a very special relationship with our school,” said Dipen Modi another alumni of St. John High School. All the students present at the programme were enjoying a lot and sharing old stories with their friends. “It is really great that this reunion was organized through which I have been able to bring my old friends together and have a time out from my busy life,” said Amit Dhudhani alumni of the school.
 
 Many games were also played at the reunion such as ‘Introduction Housy’ for introducing students to one another from each batch of the school. “Through this game we want to carry out a whole introduction session for knowing students from every batch for further such programme,” said Pritesh Pramanik, a former student at the school. 
 
 The alumnus of St. John High School are also planning to create an information directory of school’s former students. “The directory will have information about all the students passed from our school. It will bring students and school more close and will be of great help in future,” said Dutta. “We are also planning to create a group of our alumnus for helping, children in our school who are economically backward, by providing books and other aids to the school,” he added. 
 
