 unplugged on love, life, heartbreak and dealing with controversies.
 
  
 
  
  Wake up to work out, keep things spontaneous, decide to sink deep into the task of the day (even if I don’t feel like it), finish work with another workout session. Then I chill with my kids, get them curious about at least one thing in life, celebrate the last meal of the day, then surrender to the need of sleep, only because it helps me rise brighter the next day. Or else, I wouldn’t sleep at all.
  
  
 
  
  Tough times are important in our lives. It’s during this period that we develop strength and abilities, and learn how to overcome obstacles. If you are a fitness enthusiast, then it’s easier to understand this. You have to lift loads that you cannot lift, for your muscles to get stronger. So tough times are like a gym for the mind, I call it the mental gym – that single perspective makes pain a fun thing to overcome. Pain is nothing but weakness leaving your body.
  
  
 
  
  Absolutely. That’s the thought that makes me fearless. I do believe in living life to the fullest. I do believe in enjoying, smiling, and more importantly, I believe in learning and being a student throughout my life. Whether you get one life or 10, this would be my motto in each.
  
  
 
  
  My kids. I enjoy travelling with them the most. Not just because they are my kids but because they are fun individuals to be with, and to talk to.
  
  
 
  
  I don’t like shopping at all. I take out just one day to shop when I travel. That’s a rule my kids follow too. We have the list ready and a deadline we adhere to, no matter what.
  
  
 
  
  My sea-facing balcony. That’s where I like to sit most of the time. But there is a space in my house for every mood I am in. It’s the way I have consciously created my environment – to suit all my moods.
  
  
 
  
  People can only say two things about you – either the truth or lies. When it’s the truth, I’m okay with it. When they lie and I know the truth, I’m okay with that too. As long as you know who you are, you will always stay centred. But it’s not always possible to maintain your cool. Sometimes, emotions do take over. Having said that, you gain better perspective eventually.
  
  
 
  
  We all deal with our own heartbreaks in unique ways. I have mostly relied on time and curiosity. Time heals you. And curiosity turns it into adventure.
  
  
 
  
  It’s very difficult to generalise this. It differs for each person.
  
  
 
  
  Again, this depends on the nature and temperament of people involved and circumstances that they faced. The possibility of being good friends with your ex is absolutely there.
  
  
 
  
  All of us are very physical and love adventure. We love discovering new places and new things in the world. We love analysing stuff too. And teaching my sons about life has, in turn, taught me many things.
  
  
 
  
  Strength is not gender dependent.
  
  
 
  
  You look for things you need. I don’t need more love than I already have around me in my life.
  
  
