AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Ahmedabad   (AFES) responded to two incidents of fire in parked cars one in Chandkheda and another in Navrangpura. Both cars were gutted thoroughly. Firemen attributed the incidents to rise in mercury.

 Since middle of February, AFES has been responding to an average of six fire calls per day. While summer months typically report a higher number of cases, this year the rise was reported right from mid-February.
 
 Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, said that generally it is mid-March when fire calls start rising.“But this year, the heat started early, resulting in the rise in fire incidents,“ he said. “Fire calls go up in summer as the external heat affects machinery that generates heat and melts coating on copper wires that causes short-circuit, and the heat also causes dry grass and other materials to catch fire,“ he said.AFES officials said that in past two months, the majority of fire incidents have been reported from highrises both commercial and residential premises.
 
 “Steel and glass structures actually pose a higher threat as is seen in a few cases in city where the glass had to be broken by AFES team to allow smoke to escape, and increase visibility for fire operations,“ said an AFES official. “ A number of manufacturing units have also reported major fire incidents in which the fire had begun in production units. Lastly, on an average, one parked car catches fire on a daily basis due to external heat,“ added the official.
 
 
 
 AFES officials said that a few steps can ensure fire safety in both commercial and residential buildings. “Ventilation is a key aspect in prevention of fire.Ensure that the buildings have exit plans so that injuries due to panic can be averted. Use good quality electronic equipments and ensure cooling for computer systems or air-conditioning preventing over-heating. In some of the recent instances, misuse of   cylinders has also been reported. Identification of such units flouting norms should be taken up by authorities,“ said an AFES official.
 
 
 
 The   said that the mercury will continue to climb in the next few days. In Ahmedabad, the maximum temperature on Monday was 40°C, 1.2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 21.8°C, 1.2 degrees above normal.According to the IMD, the maximum temperature in the city is likely to be 41°C on Tuesday.
 
 The IMD on Monday warned that heatwave conditions would prevail at a few places in Saurashtra, Kutch and south  , from Tuesday to Thursday. 
 
