PANAJI: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte beat the odds to emerge triumphant as an   for a record second time.

 Since 1963, when Mamadali Ravji won as an independent from Diu during the first state elections post-liberation, Goa has never given an independent candidate a second chance. During the last term, a record five independents were elected, but while two of them joined parties and three others tried their luck at the polls again as independents, only Khaunte tasted success.
 
 Others, like fisheries minister Avertano Furtado couldn’t repeat his giant-killing act in Navelim, while Benjamin Silva was dethroned by former environment minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues.
 
 “The BJP did everything to defeat me, using government machinery. People had faith in me; they trusted me. They are my pillars of support and helped create this record win,” said Khaunte, after defeating BJP candidate Guruprasad Pawaskar by 4,213 votes.
 
 The BJP, including Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar, had campaigned extensively in Porvorim, asking everyone to free themselves from ‘goondaraj’ and vote for a party that will change the face of Porvorim. “Independents are jokers. If you have played rummy (card game), you will know that if there is a shortfall, jokers can be counted upon,” said Parrikar, ridiculing the role of independents.
 
 Porvorim, though, thought differently and handed Khaunte a second term. “Parrikar did what he had to (in Porvorim while campaigning) but that’s politics. In democracy, everyone is welcome, but ultimately it’s the people who decide,” said Khaunte. He is not the only independent to be elected. Govind Gaude, an overwhelming favourite in Priol, secured over 15,000 votes to defeat MGP president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar. Gaude had lost to Dhavalikar during the last elections, but support from BJP helped him turn the corner this time around.
 
 In Sanguem, Prasad Gaonkar stunned sitting BJP MLA Subhash Phal Dessai to take the independent count to three. “I am very happy that the people of Sanguem proved they cannot be influenced by money. I am thankful to them,” said Gaonkar, whose support will be crucial for any party forming the next government. He has, expectedly, kept his cards close to his chest. “I have not decided on whom to support. Let me talk to my supporters and decide,” he said.
 
 
