BHOPAL:  , now part of general budget, has brought smiles on faces of residents in Madhya Pradesh. Sources in railways have claimed second highest allotment has gone to Madhya Pradesh for future development, triggering excitement and expectations.

 “The best part of railway budget is withdrawal of service charge on train ticket reservation through IRCTC. What can be better for traveller,” said Ankita Mehra, a travel writer and student.
 
 According to sources in railways, the budget for Madhya Pradesh has been raised to Rs 5,376 crore from Rs 2,871 crore.
 
 Niranjan Wadhwani, secretary,   and member, Divisional Railway Users’ Committee, says, “Budget is fair and good for each sector of people. Though the list of trains and other facilities provided to Madhya Pradesh are not clear in budget, we are expecting a rise in rail facilities as the budget for Madhya Pradesh is higher this year. They can have new trains, redevelop small station, redevelop their commercial area at stations and do many more things.”
 
 However, detailed budget allocation will take time to reach zonal offices, said spokesperson of Bhopal rail division.
 
 Safety of railway passengers is the major demand put forth by DRUCC this year. It has been expected to have met with allocation of Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh will be created with a corpus of Rs 1 lakh crore over a period of five years. 
 
 Rajnish Singh, who recently took to twitter to complain about dirty station in Bhopal division, said, “Coach mitra and Swacch Bharat allocation are good initiatives. Otherwise, we are bound to tweet and wait for response and by the time cleaning staff reaches the spot, the journey is over. I had complained about a dirty toilet in Tamil Nadu Express a few days ago while I was travelling.”
 
 However, there were some, who were eagerly waiting to know about steps being taken for punctuality of trains and more details about tourist trains. “I did not like experiment to merge railway budget with normal budget speech. There were no details, just money allocation and time and schemes,” Vriddhi Sahu, a CA by profession from MP Nagar.
 
 Other facilities announced in 2017-18 budget for railways includes unmanned level crossings on broad gauge lines will be eliminated by 2020; railway lines of 3,500 km will be commissioned in 2017-18. During 2017-18, at least 25 stations are expected to be awarded for station redevelopment; 500 stations will be made differently abled-friendly by providing lifts and escalators; ‘Coach Mitra’, a single-window interface to register all coach-related complaints and requirements, will be launched. By 2019, all coaches of Indian railways will be fitted with bio-toilets. 
 
