KOLKATA: The joy, exuberance and sheer delight of the twin festivals of Dol/Holi was marred by incidents of stray violence from Kolkata and Howrah, with one young woman complaining of molestation in Baguiati. 

 The woman, in her 20s, complained she that was walking back to a relative's home at Deshbandhunagar in Baguiati after playing Holi with her nephews, when a group of youths in the area forcefully held her from behind and smeared her with Holi colours. When her nephews protested, the youths assaulted them. The young woman complained she was forced down on the ground as the youths continued to smear her with colours, even as she was pleading with them to let her go. Her tormentors fled only when more members of her family rushed out on to the road.
 
 The woman named four persons in the FIR, out of which two men - Jaydeep Saha and Rajib Poddar - were arrested. "Raids are being conducted to arrest the other men at the earliest," said a senior officer of the police station.
 
 At Howrah's Joypur, drunken men allegedly killed a 22-year-old youth and threw his body into a pond in the early hours of Sunday. The men allegedly waylaid Abhijit Pradhan and his four friends returning from Sauria in Joypur after participating in a Kali Puja at a local temple after getting engaged in an altercation on the eve of Doljatra on Saturday night. Abhijit's friends rushed to Jhijira, gathered more youths from there and lodged a complaint at Joypur police station against two identified and eight unidentified youths. Cops later recovered Abhijit's body from the pond. Howrah SP Sumit Kumar said a murder case had been initiated but none was arrested yet.
 
 At Bansdroni, on the southers outskirts of Kolkata, a 24-year-old man drowned while bathing at a pond after playing Holi at a friend's place on Sunday. Police said Radheshyam Poddar, a resident of Picnic Garden, had come to his friend's place with a group.
 
 "After playing, the youths got into a pond near the house to take a bath, when Poddar slipped and drowned. Some locals jumped into the water to try and rescue him, but by the time he was taken to hospital, he was declared dead," said an officer of Regent Park police station. 
 
 Also on Sunday, drunken men damaged a brand new car and assaulted its owner, a 72-year-old man who recently had a heart bypass surgery, over parking their car on the road. Police said Rajkumar Sonkar had bought the car under the state government's Gatidhara car subsidy scheme and had parked it outside his house at Satchashipara in Cossipore. A group of neighbours had allegedly protested against him parking on the road outside his house and painted the new white car in Holi colours. When Sonkar and his family protested, the men smashed the windscreens and assaulted Sonkar and his son. Based on the complaint lodged by Sonkar, police picked up a neighbour on Sunday night.
 
