RANCHI: The city wore a   after the celebrations on December 31 night. All the   were empty and shops were closed as people were busy celebrating New Year with families and friends. 

 Many people had a gala time partying at various pubs and restaurants and shaking a leg with dance troupes from metro cities. 
 
 A huge crowd thronged a city hotel to see the live dance performance by Russian dancers which was the major attraction of evening.
 
 However, the situation was different near the picnic spots situated in and outside the city limits. 
 
 People were facing difficulty in getting a decent parking spot on the usually empty Kanke Road with a huge number of people arriving in the area to visit Sidho Kanhu Park and Rock Garden for outings with friends and families.
 
 January 1 was dedicated to family by many. A huge crowd was seen at temples in and around the city including Jagganathpur Temple, Rajrappa and Deori temple as people began the New Year by offering prayers to god.
 
 "We are stepping into a New Year so I decided to visit a temple with my family and get blessings from god for a successful year ahead," said Anjana Bharati, a school teacher.
 
 After offering prayers, it was the time to go out with families and friends. A huge crowd was seen at the various picnic spots across the city, the favourite falls including Jonha, Dassam and Panchghag.
 
 "We went to Jonha park with family where we got mutton prepared at a dhaba nearby and carried it to the falls. 
 
 With New Year being a Sunday, the crowd was more than usual but we had a lot of fun," said Manoj Kumar, a picnicker.
 
 Keeping in view the safety of picnickers, extra security measures were taken by the city police. Sadar DSP and Ranchi police spokesperson VC Srivastava said, "Extra police forces were deployed at all the picnic spots along with teams of National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) at four major water bodies including Kanke Dam, Dhurwa Dam, Jonha falls and Dassam falls. The day was peaceful."
 
 
