LUCKNOW:   is nostalgic about the rides she took astride her father’s Bajaj Super scooter, meandering through the bylanes of Diamond Dairy in  , where she was born 28 years ago.

 Years later, she’s back in those bylanes, asking people to elect her as their legislator. Much has changed in the years since she left. The Cantonment seat has grown more densely populated, the number of urban poor has increased, as has the dirt and squalor. In many parts, sewerage systems are choking and spilling over.
 
 Aparna, too, has metamorphosed from being the frock-clad youngster standing between her father’s legs on the front board of the scooter, to the chiffon-clad bahu of   patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. This year, the sister-in-law of UP’s chief minister Akhilesh Yadav is also the SP nominee for the Cantonment seat.
 
 At a gathering of advocates where she has come to visit, Aparna says: “Mujhpar aarop tha ki badey ghar ki ladki yahan nahi aayegi. Badey ghar ke hain to kya katwa dogey rishta? Galti ho gayi? Kya karein batao? Nibhayein ki katwa dein? Humein to dono farz nibhane hain. Bahu ka naitik farz, aur beti hone ki zimmedari (There were allegations that I wouldn’t come here because I am married into a prominent family. Will you make me snap ties now? Is it wrong of me to have done that? What should I do? I have to shoulder both responsibilities, that of a daughter-in-law as well as that of a daughter).”
 
 Aparna’s appeals appear earnest. She tells people she has provided for their needs even when she wasn’t yet a legislator. Showing none of the nervousness of a first timer, she speaks extempore and rattles off the numbers; 250 roads, 58 submersible pumps, and many drains widened. The flow of work, she says, will only improve if she becomes their elected representative. There’s also a good word for ‘jeth’ Akhilesh. “Cantt Vidhan Sabha constituency has benefitted the most under his governance. Lucknow Metro will benefit people here the most,” she adds. 
 
 The Cantonment seat though, is not the proverbial cakewalk for the debutante even with her stature as Samajwadi chhoti bahu. The SP has never won the Cantonment seat, and their cadre presence, her younger brother and campaign manager Aman says, was minimal when they began canvassing nine months ago. This is a BJP hub and Aparna is pitted against an old political warhorse, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, also the current MLA.
 
 Despite the launch of a negative campaign against her by political opponents, Aparna remains unfazed. “I would say, to forgive is divine. There have been legislators here who have not worked at all. The extent of squalor in an urban seat is appalling, but there seems to have been no accountability. And I want to be an agent of change.”
 
 Aparna is also unmoved, she says, for being charged with being at the centre of the Samajwadi ‘pari-war’ that was raging until a few months ago. “Kuch to log kahenge, logon ka kaam hai kehna,” she says, smiling. And then adds, “There has been no problem. There are three things that matter, IQ, EQ and SQ. In my case, the spiritual quotient has helped me a lot. I believe families should be tightly knit. As a product of an integrated family, I want my daughter to have the same happy environment I grew up in. And I will do everything for my family. Netaji and Bhabhi (Kannauj MP  ) campaigned for me. Bhaiyya (Akhilesh) will also campaign.”
 
 Aparna’s electoral run is also unique in its youthfuless. From obtaining permissions for cars in the cavalcade, to managing the booth-level ‘basta’ distribution, the management remains in the hands of family and friends, all of whom are under 30. When asked, she laughs: “We have a few 40-year-olds too who help us with strategy and guide us, but they like to work behind the scenes.” 
 
 So who is her inspiration? Tony Robbins, she says. “My husband Prateek took me to Tony’s seminars where I was picked from among 1,200 people once and 2,200 people at another time for success coaching programmes. He is my guru and I have learnt a great deal from him.” 
 
 Ask her if she’s confident about winning and Aparna responds: “I have had massive support from people. So I think I should win. My job is to work hard, and I’m doing that.”
 
