CHANDIGARH: Barely seven days after the Supreme Court upheld death sentence for Nirbhaya's rapists, another starkly similar case has rocked Haryana. Two men from Sonipat not only kidnapped and repeatedly raped a 23-year-old woman divorcee in Rohtak, they also inserted a sharp-edged weapon in her private parts before raping her again. After all this, they smashed her head with a brick so that it would be difficult to identify her. 

  The woman's decomposed body was noticed by passersby in an open plot in the Industrial Model Township area of Rohtak on Thursday. The men noticed the body being mauled by stray dogs. Police said by the time they reached the spot, dogs had already eaten up parts of her face and stomach. 
 
  Police have arrested two men for the brutal crime. One of them is the victim's neighbour in Sonipat, Sumit Kumar, while the other is his friend, Vikas. Cops said the crime was committed as the woman refused to marry Sumit. He also suspected her of having an affair with another man. 
 
  CCTV footage of the factory in Sonipat where the woman worked showed that she had left with the two men, who were later arrested on Friday. 
 
 On Tuesday, Sumit and Vikas took the woman to Rohtak on the pretext of taking her to see a local lake. Instead, they took her to a hotel. Police officials say during interrogation, Sumit admitted that he and his friend raped the woman for a day after giving her a drink that made her drowsy.
 
 Despite being drowsy and being sexually abused, the woman told the men that she would have them both arrested and that she would not hesitate to inform the cops. According to senior police officers, this made Sumit angrier and both men brutalized her again. The doctors who performed the post-mortem said the two men also had unnatural sex with her before inserting a sharp-edged weapon in her private parts.
 
 The officials have added that after the brutality, the two men dragged the woman to an open plot at IMT and raped her there again on Tuesday night before smashing her head with bricks.
 
 Dr S K Dhattarwal, head of forensic medicine at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak said, "Multiple bones in the head were found fractured. 
 
 They were in pieces. There were multiple injuries to the body. The mandible was fractured. Private parts of the woman had internal tear injuries. The viscera suggest that she may have been given some sedative or poison."
 
