PATNA: Southwest   is set to arrive in Bihar on schedule around June 10 to 12, or even before that.

 Following pre-monsoon showers at many places in Bihar from Friday night,   scientist Anand Shankar told TOI on Saturday a well-marked low-pressure area, formed over the  , has expedited the advancement of monsoon clouds.
 
 “The low pressure has pushed the southwest monsoon ahead in the Bay of Bengal. Accordingly, we are expecting the monsoon to hit Bihar around its normal date or even earlier,” said Shankar. 
 
 The all-India weather forecast issued by the   on Saturday afternoon stated the southwest monsoon had further advanced into some parts of Comorin area, some more parts of southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal.
 
 It said the conditions were becoming favourable for further advancement of monsoon into some more parts of southwest and eastcentral Bay of Bengal and the remaining parts of southeast Bay of Bengal in the coming three-four days under the influence of the low-pressure area.
 
 The forecast said the conditions were also favourable for the advancement of monsoon into northeastern parts of India covering Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura by May 30- 31.
 
 Southwest monsoon makes its foray into mainland India through the Kerala coast normally by June 1. This time weathermen are expecting this to happen by May 30-31.
 
 Meanwhile, residents of almost entire Bihar woke up to the pitter-patter of rain on Saturday morning, which provided much-needed respite from the scorching heat.
 
 Local weathermen said almost the entire state received showers from 8pm on Friday. The rain gauge at the observatories recorded 60mm showers at Vaishali, 46mm at Muzaffarpur, 39.3mm at Purnia, 34mm at Darbhanga, 13mm at Chhapra and 6.2mm at Patna. Trace to light rainfall was observed at many other places in the state as well. 
 
 The clouding and showers also led to sudden drop in temperature. The minimum temperature in Patna on Saturday morning, when the skies were covered with clouds, was 21.2 degree C, four notches lower than the normal.
 
 The local weathermen forecast showers at many places in the state on Sunday as well. Private weather agency Skymet has also predicted pre-monsoon showers to continue over the eastern parts of the country till the arrival of southwest monsoon in the country.
 
