CHENNAI: Chances are people outside of Tamil Nadu don’t have the faintest clue about that the difference is between ‘poromboke’ and ‘pizza’. Chances also are that people in the city, despite knowing full well what poromboke land is, do nothing to conserve it despite the fact that it could save lives in a natural catastrophe like the floods of December 2015.

 A concert this Saturday that could change the way people view poromboke land (unused government sites or waste land that the British did not appropriate and the government did not covet after independence) — by building awareness that such land served as conduits for rainwater runoff that could preclude inundation after heavy rainfall.
 
 Organisers of the quirkily titled   - Justice Rocks say the concert “unsponsored by the Corporation, CMDA and TNPCB” — the monitoring bodies that should do the most to conserve such sites but do the opposite by regularising buildings and whole colonies on them — will feature music, satire, standup and more. The concert begins at 6pm on Saturday, January 14. Admission will be free.
 
 Organised by Vettiver Collective, the show will be held at Spaces on the promenade along Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar. Featuring vocal performances by prominent Carnatic musician T M Krishna and rapper Sofia Ashraf, Poda Poromboke, organisers hope, will dispel misconceptions regarding poromboke land use.
 
 Krishna will perform a carnatic rendition of Poromboke Paadal (Poromboke Song), with lyrics by Kaber Vasuki. Vasuki, part of Tamil rock band ‘Kurangan’, will also perform.
 
 “The structure of the (original) song has been changed by TMK (Krishna),” Vasuki said. “I rewrote nearly half of the lyrics of TMK’s version that I hope will be powerful.”
 
 The creative director of YouTube’s ‘Temple Monkeys’,  , will perform standup comedy act during the event. Vardharajan, who has directed music videos featuring Vasuki, said it will be his maiden standup gig.
 
 “We’ll try to put the spotlight on encroachments in Ennore, where land sharks have gobbled up large parcels of poromboke land,” said environmentalist Pooja Kumar, one of the organisers.
 
 This will be Justice Rocks’ 9th edition and, if the concert has grown from strength to strength, it has been with the contribution that young adults have made.
 
 Ashraf, who shot to fame with the rap song Kodaikanal Won’t will perform a song in Tamil with her band, Mallipoo and The Alwas.
 
 “We need to have a philosophical debate about waste [we generate],” she said. “I will do a song useless, that uses a double entendre on our consumerist attitude and the need to use less.”
 
 Conservationist Nityanand Jayaraman said agencies like the corporation, CMDA and the  , are sleeping on the job. “We will try to wake them up,” he said.
 
 
