KOLKATA: When Mehek Jagwani, a  , got her   (TSH) tests done at a reputable diagnostic centre, the report showed the TSH level within the normal range. In order to reconfirm the result, she got the   done from another diagnostic laboratory specializing in   tests. This time, the results showed her thyroid level way above the normal range. Convinced the second result is true, the 34-year-old now wants to take the first   to task.

 On Monday, Jagwani — a resident of New Garia — went all the way to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission’s office on 32 BBG Bag to lodge a formal complaint only to find no official, not even a complaint drop box there. But, the software professional is not ready to give up. 
 
 “I hope the commission starts functioning soon, accepting complaints and addressing them too. Whether it’s hospitals or diagnostic centres, there is a tendency to take common people for granted. This is simply not done,” Jagwani said.
 
 Jagwani had gone to the first diagnostic centre on March 15, The report said her TSH was 3.73 μIU/ml that was within the normal range ( 0.5 μIU/ml to 4 μIU/ml). She then went to another lab where the result showed TSH at 10.20 μIU/ml.
 
 Jagwani has been on thyroid medication for almost 10 years. But of late, she became irregular with medicines. As a result, the thyroid related symptoms started bothering her even more aggressively.
 
 “Before I consult a doctor to reset the dosage of medication, I had to get the tests done. I was shocked with the first report because it cannot be true. Therefore, I had to get a repeat test done from another lab,” said Jagwani.
 
 After getting the second report, she countered the first lab, lodging a written complaint that the report was incorrect. But she was told that the report was correct.
 
 “I could have ignored if the difference between two results was minor. The TSH level could not have plunged to normal even after neglecting medication. I went to that lab as my father, a cardiac patient, had been getting all his tests done from there. Now, I wonder if those results were correct at all,” she said.
 
 As far as the cost is concerned, the first laboratory charged more than double what the second lab had charged for the same test. 
 
 “Even for minor ailment, doctors nowadays decide on the medication only after certain diagnostics/pathological tests. The whole treatment will go wrong if the test reports are incorrect. Thank God, mine is a minor condition. Imagine if this had happened with a cancer patient,” said Jagwani. 
 
 Even as people like Jagwani have started visiting the commission’s office, it’s still under renovation. 
 
 “The renovation work is on. It might take at least another week or two to get the place ready,” said a source in the health department.
 
 
