Amid the  , there were a few dissenting voices as well, like that of   M Krishnaswamy. He has time and again insisted that jallikattu cannot be classified a part of Tamil culture as it was practised only in a few villages, primarily in Madurai district.

 Dalit activists too echo his view and had even alleged that jallikattu was organised, patronised and controlled by members of a particular community (thevars). Jallikattu as an event espouses caste discrimination, they alleged. “I would never consider jallikattu as part of Tamil culture or identity ,“ said Krishnaswamy . “Mattu pongal is celebrated to honour livestock. Ideally , on that day bulls should be given rest as they work hard all year. But jallikattu does the opposite by harassing them more,'' he said. The state government has erred by permitting the protests to be carried out for four days without permission, he added.
 
 Puratchi Tamilagam founder   said there was a history of caste clashes being sparked by events like jallikattu and rooster fights. It says all about the caste discrimination associated with jallikattu, he said.
 
 However, several dalit leaders, including VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan, don't subscribe to this view.Thirumavalavan has been steadfastly supporting jallikattu for years.“Jallikattu is the cultural right of people of Tamil Nadu,“ he had said.
 
 According to writer Subaguna Rajan, in Alanganallur -the most popular jallikattu venue -the event is organised by members of the naicker caste and 60% of registered bull tamers are dalits. “There are no thevars in Alanganallur. The first bull let out from the vadivasal is the Muniyandi temple bull, the priests of which are dalits. There is no bar on dalits participating in jallikattu,“ he said.
 
 Likewise, at Palamedu the organisers are nadars, he says. At the same time, Subaguna Rajan doesn't rule out caste discrimination in jallikattu. Writer Stalin Rajangam says this inclusion of dalits is “tokenism“ and does not mean members of the community enjoy equality in jallikattu arenas or in these villages. In fact, in other parts of the state like Sivaganga, even this tokenism is nonexistent and there is discrimination.
 
 Others say it would be wrong to view the event through tinted glasses. “Jallikattu is indeed Tamil culture. It is organised by various communities across the state. Even for argument's sake, if we assume that it is patronised by one community , then it would be like saying Bharatanatyam is never part of Tamil culture because it is practised by a minuscule section of society ,'' says T Ondiraj, a jallikattu organiser from Trichy.
 
