KOLKATA: Global management consulting firm McKinsey & Co has been appointed by   (AAI) to develop a manpower restructuring strategy for Kolkata airport. If the pilot delivers the project objectives, restructuring will be taken up at all key airports managed by AAI.

 Though there are no immediate plans to privatise Kolkata airport, the move is viewed as a step to prepare the airport for such an eventuality. Two earlier attempts by the Centre to hand the airport over to private operators had failed as employees and staff blocked it with backing from the state government. Kolkata airport director   confirmed that a team from McKinsey had met him last week and collec ted all operational and nonoperational data, including deployment and role assigned to officer-grade employees and workers. At present, Netaji   airport has 128 officers and 964 workers.
 
 “The reason behind the restructuring attempt is to optimise manpower so that productivity and efficiency increases. This will involve reallocation of jobs, either keeping in mind competencies or through fresh training to take on new roles. Work profile of many people will change,“ an official said.
 
 According to AAI, once the restructuring is implemented, it will lead to savings in time and energy. According to an AAI offi cial, as reallocation happens, some of the jobs that have been outsourced may be handed over to AAI staff and can lead to reduction in vendor count.
 
 The management team at Kolkata airport has done some internal restructuring in the past. For instance, it has technically trained women housekeeping and facilitation staff and reassigned them to more challenging roles like allocation of aerobridges to aircraft. The McKinsey project will take this initiative forward in a more structured manner and assign new functions and roles.
 
 “At present, if there is civil maintenance or similar work in two areas of the airport, separate supervisors are assigned. The restructuring will consolidate the manpower and integrate technology so that one supervisor can do the job. There will be less duplication on one hand and better application of spare manpower on the other,“ explained another official.
 
 McKinsey , which is leading the pilot project in Kolkata, has worked with corporations and public services to tackle organizational challenges and helped clients align organizations with business imperatives and manage change.
 
