JAIPUR: A day after Budget was tabled in the  , members of ruling party and Opposition argued over its merits and demerits. 

 During the debate, Congress claimed it to be disappointing while BJP MLAs mentioned it to be a visionary budget that has taken care of all the sections of society. 
 
 Starting the debate on Budget, Congress MLA Ramesh Meena made an aggressive pitch by counting the failures of government. He pointed that Budget has not laid any plans how to develop infrastructure and arrest the mounting debts. 
 
 This government has only one thought and that is how to sell, privatize and give away the public properties of the state. This government is functioning just like   came to India,” said Meena. Firing salvos on the issue of mismanagement, Meena claimed that investors are avoiding investing in the state while and exchequer is on the verge of bankruptcy. 
 
 He alleged that government is buying power from private players on higher rate while closing down its own generation facilities. Meena also pulled up the government on extravagant expenses and urged them to keep check on foreign visits of ministers and officials 
 
 From the ruling party  , MLA from Kishanpole held the fort and aggressively defended the government. Reading out the post-budget reactions of leader of Opposition   and PCC chief  , Gupta questioned their intellect. 
 
 “I can only say that a knowledgeable person cannot make such negative remarks on the budget. They read whatever their personal assistant wrote to them,” said Gupta. For PCC chief he added “Pilot said why government has not taken any step to confront rising inflation. Why there are no subsidies given on sugar and LPG. I want to know whether it is a state budget or central budget. This is the level of knowledge of our state Congress president,” said Gupta. 
 
 Facing criticism on giving employment to youths, Gupta though took a complete U-turn. He claimed BJP government never promised to provide jobs to 15 lakh youths. “In our manifesto we committed to provide job opportunities.”
 
