TIRUVARPUR/NAGAPPATTINAM: As the agitation against the   rages in Neduvasal,   have given a clean chit to the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s (ONGC) ongoing exploration projects in their areas. They say these projects have not affected their livelihood. What the   have managed to do is sow the seeds of scepticism among some of them who are reeling under crop failure because of water shortage. 

 ONGC has been carrying out exploration of oil and natural gas in 31 locations spread over Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Ramanathapuram and Ariyalur districts for the last 50 years. Apart from various rigging units around these districts, the corporation had also set up   at Narimanam and Kuthalam in Nagapattinam as well as Nannilam in Tiruvarur district. 
 
 A Divyanathan, 65, a farmer of Amur village in Nannilam residing near a rig unit erected two months ago, said a piece of land was taken from him for the purpose. “I have faced no problems with the rigging unit. I have come across many worries being expressed about the exploration in the media. I have only grown a little curious,” he told TOI. 
 
 R Ramesh, 40, running a grocery shop at Kuthalam near Mayiladuthurai in Nagappattinam district where a massive gas collection station was functioning, said they have been facing acute drinking water shortage for the last 10 years. “However, I cannot attribute it to the exploration which has been going on in six places in and around Kuthalam too,” he said. “I will not say that the exploration process is 100 per cent good. The oil corporation officials had promised to provide employment opportunity to the locals, but that has not happened. We have in no way benefited from the process”, Ramesh further said.
 
 V Kannaiyan, 70, from Kuthalam village near Narimanam in Nagapattinam district, said some of his friends in the village had received calls from protesters in Pudukkottai to come over to show their solidarity with them. However, they had categorically rejected their plea. “Had we faced any problems due to the exploration process carried out by ONGC, we ourselves would have staged protest. However, I think there was no need for that”, he opined.
 
 Another farmer from the same village Kuthalam, M Robert Belson, 45, said he never had to care about ONGC’s exploration as it hardly posed any troubles. Instead, he charged the state government with not doing anything to disburse compensation for crop loss he had encountered during the samba season. “We are forced to witness a number of chief ministers within a short period, but nothing has changed in the farmer’s life. No one cares about our plight”, Robert alleged. 
 
 Most farmers seemed disturbed by their water woes and how they have been forced to leave acres of land uncultivated. V Kannaiyan, 70, from Kuthalam village near Narimanam, said the ground water table had been depleting fast. “Earlier we used to get water from 50 foot deep, but this has been going further down every year. Moreover, we can only get saline water as the entire ground water has become saline due to monsoon failure,” he said.
 
