GHAZIABAD: Union minister Gen V K Singh (retd), who represents Ghaziabad in Lok Sabha, held a meeting with senior officals of the district administration at the collectorate on Saturday to review the progress of various development works in the district including Metro projects, NH-24 widening work and rapid rail transit system.

 Senior officials of Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC), power department and the police were also present.
 
 In the meeting, the   said a detailed project report (DPR) for the construction of two Metro corridors would soon be submitted to the GDA. The GDA board had given its in-principle approval for the project in September 2016, and sanctioned Rs 1.09 crore to the   for preparation of DPR. 
 
 “The DMRC has already received Rs 32.76 lakh from the GDA as the first-stage mobilisation fee for preparation of the DPR. It is being finalised and will be submitted to the GDA very soon,” a senior DMRC official said.
 
 The project involves extension of Delhi Metro’s Blue line — which terminates at Vaishali at present — to the under-construction Mohan Nagar Metro station. Another corridor will link the under-construction Noida City Centre-Sector 62 Metro line with the proposed   line at a suitable point by extending it across NH-24 and Indirapuram. The project includes the construction of a new Metro station in Indirapuram.
 
 According to a DMRC survey, the corridor to link Vaishali with Mohan Nagar will be approximately 5km long, while the corridor stretching from Sector 62 Metro station till the Vaishali-Mohan Nagar line will be nearly 4.5 km long.
 
 Other infrastructure projects, including the under-construction Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand Metro corridor, NH-24 widening work and the rapid rail transit system, were also reviewed during the meeting. “Various aspects of the Smart City Proposal that has been submitted to the Union urban development ministry were also discussed. All departments will have to work in tandem if Ghaziabad makes the cut in the next round of the Smart City selection,” Ghaziabad mayor Ashu Verma told TOI.
 
