INDORE:   traders’ association as well as residents of the area submitted a   at   on Friday claiming they have been facing faced several problems for the past few years because of   in the complex.

 The traders submitted a five-page letter to the police highlighting problems including harassment of women by miscreants, illegal parking leading to traffic jam, encroachments by auto dealers and transporters and a woman peddling cannabis in the area.
 
 While speaking to police, the traders claimed many of the shops which were allotted on lease to them by IDA have been encroached by miscreants.
 
 “Auto dealers in the complex also park several two-wheelers illegally in the area. This creates problems for cars and causes jams,” said Pritesh Mahajan, trader and shop owner.
 
 Traders also claimed since there were several offices of transporters in the building, drivers and cleaners always enter the complex with heavy trucks, creating many problems.
 
 “Miscreants harass women who come to the area and stand in groups,” said Mahajan.
 
 There are also many labourers who extort money from shop owners in the area and threaten them when they refuse to pay up.
 
 The traders also added that there are several government offices in the building that also face problems.
 
 “Several complaints have also been registered in the past with different officials but no action has been taken yet,” said Pratap Patel, another trader.
 
 Meanwhile, Juni Indore police claimed that the complaint was received and the matter was being looked into.
 
 “We have also registered a case and the entire matter is being looked into,” said Dilip Gangrade, Juni Indore police station in-charge.
 
 BOX
 
 Indore: Juni Indore police also registered a case against a man for allegedly threatening to kill a trader in   Complex for not giving him money.
 
 The trader, Ritesh Mahajan, registered a complaint at the police station claiming that a man who identified himself as Nitin alias Ankit Joshi had come to his shop at the complex and asked for money. When he denied, the accused allegedly threatened to shoot him. He also called him on his mobile phone, abused him and threatened to kill him and other traders.
 
 “A case was registered against Nitin alias Ankit Joshi under section 327 (Voluntarily causing hurt to extort property, or to constrain to an illegal act), 294 (Obscene acts and songs) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC,” said Dilip Gangrade, Juni Indore police station in-charge.
 
