BHUBANESWAR: The competition between the   and the BJD to take credit after the   at  , in Mayurbhanj district, got clearance to begin admission process took an ugly turn on Friday. 

 A day after chief minister Naveen Patnaik made a surprise visit to the Pandit Raghunath Murmu Medical College and took stock of its preparedness for MBBS admissions this year, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan took a dig at the state government saying let it not produce 'Munna Bhai MBBS', pointing to the protagonist of the Bollywood flick in which the protagonist had taken admission in a medical college on a fake degree.
 
 "There should not be any politics with the future of students. The apex court panel has given its conditional nod saying that the MCI may inspect the college later. If deficiencies are found thereafter, it may block future admissions," Dharmendra told reporters here.
 
 Substantiating his point, the Union minister said admissions of students in Rourkela's Hi-Tech Medical College were cancelled after they had spent a year there, while students of Rajas Medical College had to be shifted elsewhere. "The Baripada college should not face such a fate," he said.
 
 The Supreme Court-appointed oversight committee, led by former Chief Justice of India R M Lodha, has given the go-ahead for admission in the medical college from this year.
 
 Responding to Dharmendra's jibes, state health minister Pratap Jena said the Union minister seems jealous of the fact that the Supreme Court-appointed panel allowed the college to start admission this year.
 
  "Comparing Baripada college with private medical colleges is not fair," he said.
 
 On May 11, Union health minister J P Nadda had chaired a high-level meeting, which was attended by Dharmendra. Nadda had directed the MCI to inspect the college this month. However, after the Lodha panel's go-ahead, the MCI visit was rendered useless.
 
 The BJP, which swept the panchayat election in Mayurbhanj in February, and BJD are trying to consolidate the tribal votes in the region. Induction of Debasish Marndi, a doctor and former student leader of SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, into BJD is being seen by many as an attempt by the regional party in that direction.
 
 Reaching out to the tribals, the BJP had held its state executive at Baripada last month.   governor Droupadi Murmu hails from Mayurbhanj. Her appointment to the coveted post in 2015 was seen as an attempt by BJP to consolidate the tribal votes.
 
 
