LUCKNOW: As   passed the   (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2016 making retrospective amends to the Enemy Property (EP) Act of 1968, the erstwhile   said, "It only shows the dictatorial, fascist and arbitrary attitude of the Central government." 

 According to the Bill, not only are those who left India for Pakistan in the Indo-Pak conflict of 1965 and 1971 dubbed as 'enemy subjects' but also their heirs and it seizes the latter's right to succession while the property is taken over by government 'custodian' and allowed to sell it without any compensation.
 
 It was passed by the cabinet on an urgent basis after the opposition staged a walkout for it and ordinance to the effect was signed by President   on January 7. "The government was in a hurry to pass this Bill, motivated primarily to appease a limited section of a community with views that are not upheld by its majority. I have hope in judiciary, not sure of the legal implications this would have for us with our case in the Supreme Court already," said the Raja, speaking to TOI from Delhi. He also said there was an attempt to politicise the issue of Enemy property, the matter will affect thousands of people whose voices will go unheard. 
 
 "I am expecting much worse to come for Muslims under the present regime. This is only a sign of things to come," he added.
 
  Lucknow: As Rajya Sabha passed the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2016 making retrospective amends to the Enemy Property (EP) Act of 1968, the erstwhile Raja of Mahmudabad said, "It only shows the dictatorial, fascist and arbitrary attitude of the Central government." 
 
 According to the Bill, not only are those who left India for Pakistan in the Indo-Pak conflict of 1965 and 1971 dubbed as 'enemy subjects' but also their heirs and it seizes the latter's right to succession while the property is taken over by government 'custodian' and allowed to sell it without any compensation.
 
 It was passed by the cabinet on an urgent basis after the opposition staged a walkout for it and ordinance to the effect was signed by President Pranab Mukherjee on January 7. "The government was in a hurry to pass this Bill, motivated primarily to appease a limited section of a community with views that are not upheld by its majority. I have hope in judiciary, not sure of the legal implications this would have for us with our case in the Supreme Court already," said the raja, speaking to TOI from Delhi.
 
 He also said there was an attempt to politicise the issue of Enemy property, the matter will affect thousands of people whose voices will go unheard. "I am expecting much worse to come for Muslims under the present regime. This is only a sign of things to come," he added. 
 
 The Raja also claimed that Friday was for discussing private members's Bill in Parliament and a number of opposition members had asked for the matter to be discussed on another day when satisfactory answers to important questions would have been put on record. "But they never did so. It is only dictatorial and not a democratic way of bringing about things," he said. 
 
 
