CHENNAI: In a fight for survival, the   faction is shadow boxing BJP over freezing of the party's 'two leaves' symbol. While the   ( ) deputy general secretary   remains cautious and refrains from blaming the saffron party directly, his party channel,   on Saturday aired the "views" of public and cadres criticizing the Centre for the  's decision to freeze the party symbol and name for the R K Nagar by-election. Both TTV Dhinakaran and the rebel candidate E Madhusudanan are contesting on symbols meant for independents. 

 Dhinakaran, who held a consultative meeting at the party headquarters on Saturday, said that "other forces," along with DMK and "the traitors" were all out to eliminate the ruling AIADMK. He said he would not give in. The 'two leaves' symbol would be retrieved after registering a massive victory in the by-poll, he said. "The other forces will get exposed in the future. You will get to know yourself," he said. Interestingly, Dhinakaran was the first in the state to put out a statement congratulating BJP for the resounding victory in the recently-concluded assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
 
 The party channel, in its news bulletin, played out the charges levelled by select cadres and people, who dubbed the Election Commission's decision - neither of the factions shall be permitted to use the name of the party and symbol-- a conspiracy hatched by the BJP to gain a foothold in the state. The interviewees exuded confidence that after the by-poll, "TTV and Chinnamma" would retrieve the symbol frozen by the "Modi government." One went on to say, "It is layman's understanding that freezing the symbol is the handiwork of OPS and Modi to finish off the AIADMK." Another quipped, "We condemn the BJP government." Not so long ago had Sasikala's husband M Natarajan accused the BJP of conspiring to split the party, dissolving the government and saffronising the state.
 
  When Jallikattu issue was raging in the state, Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai lashed out at Modi for not giving audience to the AIADMK MPs in New Delhi. "We could see a plot of BJP in freezing our leader MGR's victory symbol. Looks like they pursue vendetta politics, as they could not set foot in TN," AIADMK (Amma) spokesperson Nanjil Sampath told TOI.
 
