NAGPUR: Election Commission of India (ECI) and   (SEC) may have spent crores on encouraging voters to exercise their franchise but the government machinery has failed to put its house in order this time too. Many voters are in a state of confusion as their booths are displayed differently at different sources.

 Hemlata P, a resident of Nandanvan, told TOI that as per chief electoral officer (CEO), Maharashtra, website, her voting booth was Vanita Vikas School, Azamshah Layout while as per the chit provided by   (NMC) it was Women’s College,  .
 
 “What am I supposed to do? Does the government expect me to run here and there to find my polling booth? What if my name is in neither of the two booths? Who will be responsible for denying me the right to vote,” she asked.
 
 There are some sources that mention two different polling booths for the same person. Ravi Nagar resident Chanchal D logged on to National Voters’ Service Portal to find her polling booth. She was shocked to find that the website mentioned two different booths. 
 
 “The first one is NMC’s Dharampeth Regional Office, Gokulpeth, and the second is Seth Mathuradas Rathi Hindi Language Sangh High School, Santra Market. I don’t know where to go. I am also unable to understand how my name figures in a Santra Market booth, which is quite far from my house,” she told TOI.
 
 Rahul Roy, a resident of Dhantoli, said that his serial number as per CEO Maharashtra website was 47/1168 while it was 47/626 as per the chit supplied to him by a political party. “I hope I don’t face problems in finding my name in the electoral rolls on Tuesday,” he told TOI.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, the election officer for NMC polls, said that voters should go by the chit supplied by NMC. “We had revised the electoral rolls to evenly distribute the voters in every booth. The difference is arising due to this exercise. Once you reach the polling booth, you will not have any problem in finding your name in the rolls,” he added.
 
 If some people may not be able to vote due to such goof-ups, there are others who can vote in NMC elections, even though they are outsiders. Ranjana D, a resident of Wadi, finds her name in voting list of ward 14. Her voting booth is in Futala. 
 
 This ward does not share its boundary with Wadi, which is a separate municipal council. Ward 12 and ward 13 share the boundary with it. Moreover, Wadi is not even in Nagpur   constituency but falls under Ramtek parliamentary constituency.
 
