THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The simmering tension in the LDF transformed into a public duel between the   and the   on Monday with both parties deciding to express their stance on The   issue in public. Janayugom daily, the mouthpiece of CPI carried two editorial page article – one by its state council member V P Unnikrishnan and the other in its weekly satire column – criticizing the CPM, SFI and chief minister   for taking controversial positions in this case.

 The CPM retorted by parading EP Jayarajan – former minister and close confidant of Vijayan – who minced no words while attacking the CPI. Jayarajan’s vitriolic outburst prompted CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran to convene a news conference in Kannur where he explained his party’s position and the Janayugom articles. But, Rajendran purposely avoided responding to Jayarajan, giving a clear hint that he will only engage in a debate with either Vijayan or CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.
 
 Sources in the CPM said that though there was a difference of opinion between CPM and CPI on the strike, it never expected the CPI to publish articles that were harshly critical of the SFI and Vijayan. “The issue of humiliating Nataraja Pillai was settled by the CM on Sunday itself. He said in public that it was an error as he couldn’t recognize the name of Nataraja Pillai. So, there was no justification in criticizing him a day after,” said a CPM leader.
 
 The CPI state secretary, who owned up responsibility for publishing the articles, however, clarified that those articles didn’t reflect the stand of CPI. “Only editorials in Janayugom are the reflections of CPI position,” Rajendran told reporters in Kannur.
 
 The CPI leader was shrewd enough to bring veteran CPM leader VS Achuthanandan while discussing the issue. Defending a probe by the revenue department on the land misuse by the law academy, Rajendran said it was not possible to ignore a complaint filed by VS who is a senior LDF leader. “We don’t view the protest as a political one. It is a protest by students who raised reasonable demands. It is not a protest against the government and we are speaking about it in public as it is not an inter-party issue in LDF,” he said.
 
 Former state secretary of CPI, Pannyan Raveendran, who levelled scathing criticism against the SFI, continued his attack in the same tone on Monday. He said that it was the responsibility of the government to settle the protest amicably. He repeated the allegation that SFI played spoilsport during the discussion convened by the education minister as it didn’t want to upset the understanding it had reached with the management.
 
 Sources in the LDF said though the issue has gone beyond permissible limits, there hasn’t been any serious effort to settle it. There are no senior leaders in the front who can mediate between warring constituents and prod them to reach a consensus. Earlier, RSP leaders like K Pankajakshan and T J Chandrachoodan had acted in that role whenever there had been a problem. With RSP’s exit from the front, there is no other constituent or leader in the LDF who can mediate between CPM and CPI.
 
 
