HYDERABAD: While the  , soaked in satire and coloured in humour, is spoken in large parts of the Deccan, it also transcends international borders. While the city may be synonymous with the language, it was carried to the neighbouring country at the time of partition.

 `A Tongue Untied: The Story of Dakhani' is a soon-to-be released documentary that traces the origins of the idiom even as it speaks of the intrinsic tanz-o-mizah (satire and humour). While the celebrated Mahmood immortalised Dakhani in movies, the documentary seeks to narrate the tale of its poets and its earthiness, moving beyond caricatures that   has created.
 
 The quest to tell this story led Mumbai-based filmmaker Gautam Pemmaraju to Karachi in Pakistan. Against a blurred backdrop of a host of portraits, including that of Mir Osman Ali Khan, the seventh Nizam, in the   in Karachi, sits the nephew of Dakhani poet Nazeer `Dahqani' even as he narrates his couplet: “Allah izzat bohot deAllah shohrat bohot deAllah daulat bohot deNahi deta toh maut de (Allah grant me great respect Allah grant me great fameAllah grant me great wealthIf not, then grant me death).“
 
 Explaining how he traced Dahqani's nephew Khwaja Qutbuddin, Pammaraju says, “I have some Karachi-based contacts who have interest in literature, poetry , etc. One friend, Irfan Khan, tracked him (Qutbuddin) down for me on my request. He sent me a book of the collected poetry of Dahqani sahab. However, I haven't been there.“
 
 Though the country is known to speak chaste Urdu, Pammaraju says Dakhani poetry too is cherished. Apart from Dahqani, who moved to Pakistan, another important poet, Aijaz Hussain, with the pen name Khatta, meaning sour, lived there.
 
 But perhaps it is Mohammed Himayatullah's verses which illustrate that humour and satire from Dakhani are inseparable: “Sawaal apna bhi poora hoinga, kya hai ki kya nai kiBande ku kabhi sukh hoinga, kya hai ki kya nai ki Arey Allah, tu mashukha ku duniya mey chhurha daala Mare ke baad hooraan deinga, kya hai ki kya nai ki (Will my question ever be answered, what is and what is not, who knowsWill I ever find peace, what is and what is not, who knowsOh Allah, you've filled the world with beautiful maidensYou'll grant us houris after death? What is and what is not, who knows).“
 
 While the documentary celebrates the idiom and its poets, it bemoans that Dakhani is no longer a language, but a vernacular which is largely confined to a region. With the influx of people from various parts of the country to the Deccan in general and Hyderabad in particular, the boli is changing. Given the grim situation, what of Dakhani's future? Kya hai ki, kya nai ki.
 
