NAGPUR: As many as 34 newborn children have died at Gondia Medical College and Hospital (GMC Gondia) during birth or immediately after birth in the past 43 days. But the authorities there are not seeing it as something very alarming. They claim that 91% of   in the district happen in government hospitals, that too at tertiary hospitals like the district Bai Gangabai Women’s (BGW) Hospital, and now the GMC Gondia since past two years, and this mortality rate is expected.

 Deputy director of health services, Nagpur circle, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal declined to comment on the issue since he was out of Nagpur, and said he would be able to tell the reason only after returning. He also said the hospital is now was not under public health department, but a part of the GMC, which comes under the medical education department.
 
 However, GMC Gondia dean Dr   said the situation needs an audit and efforts were already on to improve the situation since the launch of GMC two years back. “I am not aware of the exact cause of the deaths. But we have started an investigation and the report would be submitted at the earliest. Being a tribal district, the nutrition of the mother may also be responsible for birth of such under weight babies,” he said.
 
 Other health officials said on condition of anonymity that the number of deliveries in the district hospital were very high. This year, since April 2016 to April 2017, some 1,967 deliveries have taken place here. Considering the huge number of deliveries, the number of deaths is not significant, they said. “Our NMR and   is much below the state average,” claimed a district level officer.
 
 However, even a single death is a cause of concern under the national programme being implemented to minimize neonatal and infant mortality rate. 
 
 Dr Keoliya said that the 18 deaths in the special neonatal care unit (SNCU) occurred from April 1 to May 14, while the remaining died during labour or were still born. Of these 18 deaths, 10 babies were born on the periphery of Gondia, and were in bad condition on admission. Most of them were below 2.5kg, except one. Of the 18 deaths, four neonates were above 2kg, three were between 1.5 to 2 kg, five were between 1 to 1.5 kg, and five were below 1 kg.
 
 Eight babies were born in BGW, of which three were less than 1kg and were pre-term. “Total admissions during the same period in SNCU were 183. So, 18 deaths is well below the state average of 10% of admissions,” said officials.
 
