I was 13 years old when Hybrid Theory released. I heard the album every single evening, after coming back home from school. I listened to it insistently, day in and day out, until the next album, Meteora released in 2003. School got even tougher by then. I was about to write my 10th board exam. 

  It was the worst time of my life. School was nothing short of miserable. I wrote 20 mock-board exams before the main board exam. After every exam, my parents were called to school, where they were subject to taunts of "Your daughter is scoring so less", "Her maths is terrible", "We are going to keep her for extra classes, just before the boards" and "No one has scored below distinction from our institution. This is a shame for us." 
  
  Even though my parents stood by my side and encouraged me to keep working hard, I was depressed. I felt absolutely helpless, stupid and my self-respect took a hammering. No amount of cramming was helping me score over 60 per cent. That was the time I fell back on  's music. Their music gave me solace and  's soulful, agitated voice felt like a bam for my open wounds. 
 
  Each time my Maths or History teacher taunted me for my barely there marks, I went home and blasted "One Step Closer" in the highest volume. Each time a "bright student" rubbed her 90 per cent answer sheet on my face, I turned to "Somewhere I Belong" for comfort. My parents and perhaps my neighbours, knew all the songs from Meteora and Hybrid Theory by heart. A loud, agitated Chester Bennington from my bedroom's stereo system indicated I was home, from yet another crappy school day.
 
  I loved Linkin Park and Chester Bennington so much, that I decided right then, as a clueless 15-year-old, that if I ever got married, I would marry an angry, tattooed, long-haired musician. Chester helped shape my personality in those formative years, made me overcome my fears of scoring less than 60 per cent and even urged me to listen to more of that kind of music. After three glorious years of listening to Linkin Park, I slowly moved onto Iron Maiden, Metallica, Green-Day, Within Temptation, Slipknot and Evanescence. And even then, I faithfully went back to Hybrid Theory every now and then.
 
  You've touched lives in more ways that you can imagine, Chester. You've killed a million lives along with yours today. You've taken away our hope, our childhood and our confidence. And for that, I can never forgive you.
 
  I cannot take this anymore, 
 Saying everything I've said before,
 All these words they make no sense,
 I find bliss in ignorance,
 Less I hear, the less you'll say
 You'll find that out anyway
 
 - By Gayatri Bhadran
 
 (Image courtesy: Facebook)
