PANAJI: Nearly seven months ago, India was the last thing on Luis Norton de Matos mind. But when Luis got the call to coach the Indian U-17   team and packed his bags to land in Goa to take charge of the boys, “everything looked familiar”.

 It is a connect that traces back to three generations - his great grandfather Arnaldo de Matos was born in Goa and his great granduncle General Norton de Matos spent 10 years in the state and started a career in colonial administration to later stand for presidential elections in 1949.
 
 Luis, who is on his first trip to this part of the world, never felt out of place. “I arrived here and didn’t have this feeling that I was in a strange country. What I had heard from my parents and brothers, and saw photos, was exactly what I saw here. I have a strong bond with India,” Luis told TOI in an exclusive interview.
 
 India, for that matter even China, was not in his coaching scheme of things. “When I received this invitation (to coach the Indian team), it was something special. My culture is European and I spent two years in Mozambique with my family. But football is in Europe, and I always coached there,” Luis said.
 
 “I think it’s destiny,” Luis said. “I am delighted to be part of India’s first World Cup journey. It’s a first for me too,” the Portuguese coach said.
 
 India’s preparations for the tournament seemed chugging along nicely. German coach Nicolai Adam was in charge and exposure tours to Asia, Europe and South America had toughened the squad. Then the unlikeliest of things happened: The entire under-17 squad revolted against the coach, accusing him of physical abuse. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) stepped in and Nicolai was soon kicked out.
 
 A few big names applied, but from among the 100-odd coaches who showed interest, it was Luis who got the nod. “It’s amazing how I got here, that too in a World Cup year. Look at the circumstances concerning the previous coach,” Luis said.
 
 A former Portugal striker, Luis started his coaching career with second divisioners Club Atletico in 1989. It wasn’t until 2005 that he got a chance to coach a team in the top-flight of Portuguese football, when he was signed as a coach by Vitoria de Setubal. He later worked as football director at Sporting Lisbon and took charge of the Guinea-Bissau national team.
 
 “Next month India will play in a World Cup. It’s a unique moment because you don’t know when you will play in a World Cup again. People said I was crazy to come to India. They said it was a big mistake in my career. But I know what I am doing. Let’s all enjoy every moment,” Luis said.
 
