PILIBHIT: Worried over the presence of an adult   amid the sugarcane fields at Tandola village on the outskirts of Pilibhit city for the past few days, conservator of forest, Bareilly circle,  , has sought help from the   (WII) in Dehradun. He has asked that a team of wildlife scientists be sent to study the situation and offer suggestions on how to send the feline back to Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR).
 
  The tiger, say forest officials, was recently spotted just 500 meters from Pushp Institute of   and 1.5 km from the campus of the district and sessions court. They fear the presence of the tiger poses a great threat to the safety and security of the residents of Tandola village and also people passing through the area. So far, it has not harmed anyone.
  
  The foresters fear that tiger, which is about six years old, may make Tandola village its permanent home just like the Amaria tigress and its cubs which had strayed from PTR in November 2013 but then the pride made its permanent habitat in the agricultural belt of Amaria block.
  
  The forest deparment officials have been tracking the tiger ever since it strayed out of PTR on July 15 into the sugarcane fields of Mewatpur village. The same day, the big cat moved to the nearby village Tah and finally reached Tandola on July 20.
  
  According to conservator Singh, it appears that the tiger is settling down at Tandola and may not retreat to PTR on its own. “In the present situation, the tiger is feared to have made the cropped belt of Tandola its permanent habitat and territory as the sugarcane stalks provide shelter to the big cat, has ample prey like neelgai, jackals, wild boars besides a reservoir for drinking water and a giant peepal tree (ficus religiosa) for a cool canopy,” he said. In the absence of any other wild cat, the tiger faces no competition for territorial dominance, he added.
  
  But the continuous presence of the tiger is posing a great threat to the life of the villagers. In case they come face to face, the tiger may kill or injure humans, the forest officials said.
  
  Earlier, forest department tried to persuade villagers to allow elephants into their cropped fields to locate and tranquilize the tiger. However, villagers declined outright saying they did not want their crops to be trampled upon and destroyed. The forest officials had to bow to their wishes as there is no provision to compensate them for damaged crops.
  
  Singh said under the circumstances, he had sought WII’s help. “As the team of WII is believed to be much more experienced in analyzing the big cat’s nature, it will be capable in helping the department to a find a solution,” he added.
