NAVI MUMBAI: From October, you can be part of an Eco-Tour conducted on boat along MMR's flamingo sanctuary between Airoli and Vashi across  . The Mangrove Cell of   will kick-start the service after monsoon from Diva jetty, Airoli, with   a day during the high tide and will charge Rs 250 per head. A guide will explain to the visitors the marine life and different species of migratory birds that flock to this dense mangrove stretch.

 The Mangrove Cell has procured a 24-seater boat to ferry nature lovers for a hour-long ride. The   will cover a distance of 15km to and fro starting from Diva jetty and will take a U-turn ahead of Vashi Creek Bridge.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests N Vasudevan said, “The boat is ready to sail through the Thane Creek as registration process has been completed. We will kick off the tour soon after monsoon. All safety measures have been taken to provide the nature lovers a pleasant ride, a first-of-its-kind in Mumbai metropolitan region.“
 
 Booking for the tour can be done online. “The boat ride will be a treat for nature lovers. We have roped in naturalists who consented to play the role of gui des for tourists. They can explain to visitors the existing marine life, mangroves, birds and the abundance of flora and fauna available along the creek during the ride,“ said Vasudevan.
 
 The visitors can spot flamingos and other birds from close quarters though the boat will sail in the middle of the main creek portion.
 
 Thane creek is known for dense mangroves and varied migratory birds including beautiful flamingos, but its biodiversity has not been explored so far. “We intend to offer the people of this region a wonderful gift while taking them closer to nature while experiencing its biodiversity ,“ said Forest Minister  .
 
 Last year, the state government declared a large part of Thane creek as a flamingo sanctuary to safeguard the flamingo population. The flamingo sanctuary will be the state's second marine sanctuary after the one at Malvan.
 
