Cleared/Madan

 Coimbatore: There was tell-tale evidence: a gun shot, injuries caused to five people, CCTV footage from at a hotel where hostages were kept, weapons used in the crime recovered during the investigation.
 
 Despite all this, the Coimbatore city police botched up a grave kidnap-for-ransom case and let the prime accused, who has more than 40 cases, including murder, kidnap, extortion and attempt to murder, pending against him, go scot free.
 
 It was around 11.30pm on January 14, 2016 that gold merchant S Arulkumaran (37), his wife and a child were abducted by a gun-wielding six-member gang led by Godwin alias Thambiraja. He and five associates – Jhonson (44), Paakku alias Anthony (40), Bhaskaar alias Bhaskaran (43), Rajan alias Maharajan (36) and Paramasivam (51) – arrived at their house in a car.
 
 As per the complaint, the gang beat up Arulkumaran’s wife who was drawing kolam outside the house. They attacked their security guard and family members using a hammer and kidnapped them at gunpoint. They also took away 107 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs 1.30 lakh. The family members were held hostage in a lodge at Chinniyampalayam and Godwin sought a ransom of more than Rs 1 crore.
 
 Arulkumaran said he escaped from the lodge and immediately went to the Peelamedu police station and lodged a complaint, following which Godwin and his accomplices were arrested. Arulkumaran’s family was rescued.
 
 When the case came up for hearing before a Coimbatore court, police produced 26 witnesses, including two eyewitnesses. They also produced 44 documents and 19 material objects, including pistols.
 
 Inspite of this, police failed to prove in the court that it was Godwin who had kidnapped Arulkumaran. They also failed to prove that Arulkumaran and his family were attacked at their home and at the lodge despite having CCTV footage and a pistol as evidence.
 
 First, they failed to get the mandatory sanction from the collector to invoke the Arms Act, though it is standard procedure. Another major flaw was that police produced the CCTV footage downloaded from the lodge’s computer, but they did not have a certificate from a forensic lab declaring the footage as original, said an advocate.
 
 Arulkumaran, his wife, security guard and two children were injured in the incident. Though their clear version of the events itself would have nailed the accused, police failed to collect the bloodstained clothes and preserve it in the manner known to law, to be used as strong evidence.
 
 More important, though the FIR and the complaint clearly spoke about the gun shot and the fact that a bullet caused damage to a window and tiles in the home, police could not establish that the damage was caused by the bullet. They failed to collect the bullet from the house and get a favourable forensic report.
 
 The investigation was so sloppy, police did not even take a medical memo from the hospital where the injured people were admitted. “If only police had done their investigation properly, it would have been a case of conviction,” rued lawyers.
 
 Godwain, who is facing more than 40 cases, entered police records in 1988 when he burnt a man alive in Tuticorin. He was last nabbed in 2010 but he jumped bail and escaped. “This time again, the police have lost a chance to get a conviction, that too in such an important case. Police clearly botched up the investigation,” said an advocate.
 
 
