NEW DELHI: Half of the fund allocation under job scheme MGNREGA goes to five states, but only two of them, Uttar Pradesh and  , rank high on the poverty list. The paradox that   are not partaking of “distress labour” scheme has been underlined by the Sumit Bose committee set up to analyse welfare schemes of the rural development ministry and suggest ways to prioritise beneficiaries.

 A break-up of the fund flow under the job scheme between 2013-2016 shows that Andhra Pradesh (AP),   (TN), UP, Bengal and Rajasthan have accounted for half of the allocations. AP, TN and Rajasthan are low on the list of deprivation or degree of poverty. In contrast,   and Maharashtra are not among the top five states despite having “greater concentration of deprived households”, as mapped by rural household survey socio-economic caste census (SECC).
 
 The expert panel’s findings are in consonance with the general understanding that hard labour offered by MGNREGA should have greater demand from states with higher degree of poverty. The Bose panel has recommended that the scheme’s focus should be more on poor regions. Insiders acknowledge the paradox but attribute it to the nature of MGNREGA which is universal and demand-driven. Sources in rural development ministry said the scheme cannot be selectively focussed on poor states as it has to respond to demand whereever it emanates from. An earlier attempt to focus only on 2500 backward blocks kicked up a major controversy in 2015.
 
 However, a top official said the skewed relationship between poverty and work demand has been noticed and the ministry is building systems to help poor regions leverage MGNREGA better. Sources said instead of limiting the scheme to poor areas, the ministry has launched a concerted campaign to target families which have reported deprivation under SECC.
 
 All gram panchayats have been asked to ensure that deprived households are issued “job cards” so that they are encouraged to seek work. The campaign has a special focus on 2569 poorest blocks, as identified by the erstwhile plan panel. “The labour budget and employment has shot up in Rajasthan, UP, Chhattisgarh,  , Assam, Odisha in last year. We’ve tried to push up work there,” he said.
 
 
 
