MUMBAI: Don’t be surprised if delays in building infrastructure projects such as the coastal road along the west coast are directly linked with the peg of   served to you in bars located along highways. While cities like Amravati and Akola have built bypasses to save bars along the old   from closure, Mumbai cannot do it so quickly on the Western Express Highway (WEH) due to delay in building the coastal road, government sources said. Hence, handing over the highway stretch from Kalanagar to Dahisar to   or BMC is the only option, which will eventually be done, when the bureaucracy clears it. MMRDA may take over highways to save bars from closure. 

 “In fact, for the Eastern Express and Sion-Panvel highways, the freeway can be declared a bypass but there is no move yet,” sources pointed out. The  , in its GR in 2001, had requested municipalities to take over express highway (eastern, western and Sion-Panvel) sections passing through core city areas but as authorities like MMRDA,   and   have built and maintained their stretches and flyovers, BMC delayed the move. This delay will keep tipplers away from their favourite hangouts till MMRDA takes over.
 
 The city’s two highways stretch beyond 25km, and each have some of the busiest bars, and permit rooms in the state, with some of them in big hotels near the airport, in Andheri and Goregaon, besides scores of popular permit rooms within 500 metres from highways traversing through suburbs such as Borivli, Dahisar, Mira Road, Kandivli, Chembur, and Kurla. As per PWD’s marking, the EEH starts from Sion Circle, the WEH from Mahim Causeway, and the Sion-Panvel highway from BARC Junction at Deonar.
 
 Bars inside Taj Airport, Atithi, West-in, Sahara, Orchid Ecotel, Bawa International, Tunga, Tulip, Four Points Sheraton, Regency, Kalina Hyatt, MIG Club, Satkar Residency, Avenue, Palkhi, Yogi Midtown, domestic airport and several other establishment are affected following the   ruling. MIAL, however, denied any closure inside the airport. 
 
 Former Ahar secretary Shashikant Shetty said due to lack of space and very high property rates, relocating bars was impossible. 
 
 Adarsh Shetty, president of Ahar, an association of over 8,000 bars and restaurants in the city, said, “Except for very few, no bar will be able to shift as relocating is very tough. Who eats food these days without liquor? Very few may shift but ultimately businesses will get affected badly and so will government revenue.” 
 
 State PWD sources said a move to denotify all highway stretches which passed through the city was being expedited.
 
