
PATIALA: Call it lackadaisical attitude of academicians or lack of  , Sardar Balraj Singh Bhundar Memorial University College (SBSBMUC) in Sardulgarh conducted   exam on May 9 even as it had been postponed by   to May 12. Surprisingly , the exam was conducted for a single student which led to the paper leak and marking of an inquiry .
 
 The college has taken a plea that the decision of postponement could not be conveyed as it did not have an  . The three hour exam was conducted on its schedule time from 9.30 am to 11.30 am on the college precincts.
 
 The inquiry report into the goof-up has brought on record that the college authorities did not even look into the website of university where the information about the rescheduled exam was available. The decision to postpone the exam was taken on April 27 and a formal notification put on university website on May 5. On the other hand, the col lege is laying the onus of communication the message on the university authorities. They claim the university should have communicated through fax or a telephone call. The college authorities claim that they came to know about the postponement of the exam two hours after the exam had already being and by that time the answer sheet of the student had already been collected and submitted for further proceed ings. Interestingly, MSc mathematics is not amongst the regular courses conducted by the college and it only facilitates holding of examination for students appearing for the exam through correspondence .
 
 Principal Lakhvir Singh Gill claimed, “I am posted at the university college in Ghanaur and I am having additional charge of Sardulgarh and was not present there on May 9.There is no internet available in the college and the message could not be passed on to the examination staff.“
 
 Controller of examination   admitted that there was a communication gap. “The paper was not leaked.Yes, one student of MSc correspondence appeared and the question paper was given to him following which he submitted answer sheets.
 
  We brought this to notice of VC following which the exam was cancelled and rescheduled. We will now pass official orders that such information to university-colleges should be given through all the modes of communication including internet, emails, facebook, telephones and through fax. Besides this a confirmation or receiving report will be taken from all the colleges.“
 
