NOIDA: A third-year BTech student of  ,   allegedly committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan of his rented accommodation in Sector 15 on Friday night. His body was found by his roommates on Saturday morning.

 Madhur Mihir (22), who belonged to Buxar in Bihar, left behind a suicide note which hinted that he was weak in studies. 
 
 “The student had failed to clear one of the subjects this semester. He was upset after that,” an officer at Sector 20 police station said.
 
 Madhur’s family stays at   in Jaipur. His father Murlidhar works in the finance department of the railways.
 
 A student of mechanical engineering, Madhur was staying with three other friends on the second floor of a rented flat in B block of Sector 15. 
 
 After finishing their dinner, the three other friends went to sleep on Friday night. When one of them woke up on Saturday morning to leave for his coaching class, he found Madhur’s body hanging from the fan of his room. Police reached the spot and brought down the body at around 9 am.
 
 “His friends have said that he had got a back in one of the subjects in the exams held recently. He was upset over the same. The family of the student has been informed,” said an officer of Sector 20 police station.
 
 This is the fourth incident of an Amity student being found dead since last year.
 
 In November 2016, electrical engineering student Udit Shankar Singh was spotted lying in a pool of blood behind the hostel by students. While his parents alleged that the Singh was “murdered”, police said they were investigating suicide and other angles.
 
 Management student G Sai Krishna was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his hostel room in November 5 last year. He had allegedly borrowed money and was unable to repay it.
 
 In August, law student Sushant Rohilla (20) allegedly committed suicide at his Delhi home after he was detai-ned from exams due to low attendance.
 
 The matter had reached the   with the court expressing distress over the incident.
 
