MUMBAI: A special trial court here has rejected an application submitted by   chief   seeking exemption from appearance for trial in a Securities and Exchange Board of India ( ) Act case on grounds of gastroenteritis.   had made the application on Thursday, but a copy of the court’s order was made available on Saturday.

 Roy did not appear in court. The court also issued a notice to Dr R N Jain of the Noida Medicare Centre, who issued Roy the medical certificate.
 
 The court said the doctor should appear personally and submit an affidavit, along with medical literature, to show why a patient of gastroenteritis should remain bedridden for five days and could not attend court proceedings, when it had specifically been directed by the  .
 
 In its order, the court said the accused had used the “liberty of exemption” as a litigational strategy to keep himself away from the trial. “I am of the opinion that the exemption sought by accused number 5 (Roy) is to avoid hearing on framing of charges and protract the trial and keep the case idle,” the court said. The court further observed that if such applications were entertained, there would be no end to the trial.
 
 The matter will come up for hearing next on June 7. The Sebi prosecutor had strongly opposed the exemption application, contending that the certificate issued by Jain was “very cryptic and obtained only to defeat the purpose of court proceedings”.
 
 When the court was to commence proceedings on framing of the charges, Roy’s advocate moved a discharge plea on behalf of the company, Sahara India Real Estate.
 
 Referring to the timing of the application, the court said that it, prima facie, indicated Roy and his firm’s calculated and strategic step to circumvent the legal process.
 
 The court further stated that Sebi was not made aware of the application in advance. “The accused must know that once the application is filed, Sebi will seek time to file its reply and the case will be automatically adjourned by frustrating the very purpose of the order of the honourable high court,” the court said.
 
 
