CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday sought speedy clearances for select infrastructure projects in Chennai and other parts of the state. It also sought early repayment of Rs 17074 crore in central dues. 

 Presenting a memorandum to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, the state finance minister   sought centre's clearance for the second phase of   project. The phase II of the ambitious mass commuter project may stretch over 104 km, aimed at linking suburban areas to the city.
 
 The memorandum also sought central clearance for an additional 400 million litres a day (MLD) desalination project for water deficient Chennai. This project costs nearly Rs 5,300 crore and if implemented will take care of the growing water needs of the city, the minister said. Chennai consumes nearly 1200 MLD of water daily and it now has two 100 MLD plants, one each in Minjur and Nemili.
 
 The state government's effort to decongest the city traffic will get a boost with the completion of   (CPRR) project. The 134km road project aims to connect Mamallapuram, Singaperumal Koil, Sriperumbudur, Tiruvallur, Periyapalayam and Kattupalli. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 921 crore. "It will ease the congestion on several roads," Jayakumar told reporters later.
 
 The state government also sought in-principle approval for a   infrastructure corridor. "If this project comes up, Tamil Nadu will be strong on the infrastructure front and it will lay the foundation for further growth," he said.
 
 The state has also sought the Union finance ministry's nod to raise funds under National Investment Fund. The Fund will be created with a capital of 2,000 crore. 
 
 Earlier speaking at a GST Conclave, Jayakumar urged the centre to release 17,074 crore, which is due to Tamil Nadu under various "sensitive" schemes. For his part, Jaitley asked everyone to stop asking for exemptions and inculcate a sense of responsibility. 
 
 Jayakumar also sought GST exemption for handloom and powerloom units. "The state gives these units free power as they deserve support," he said. The state minister also sought reduction of GST on fireworks. The   had fixed a 28% rate on fireworks.
 
 "There are eight lakh people employed by the fireworks industry, across 1221 factories. Of this, 1070 are in the small scale sector and the 28% GST will make them unviable and will also make way for clandestine import of fireworks," he said. Other requests included reduction of GST on restaurant bills and fishing nets. 
 
