A bunch of filmmaking youngsters have given Sandalwood, a much needed break in 2016 dispelling a run of unoriginality and remakes, confusion and self-doubt. With shoe-string budgets and little known actors, but armed with scripts worked to perfection, hardworking 20-something indie filmmakers are laying foundations of a more creatively robust future for it.
There are rumours the industry might be returning to its so-called golden age of the '70s-'80s. But the '90s saw a fall as largescale remakes took over the cinematic landscape. There was a shift from relying on the script to the call-sheet of available dates of a hero determining its fate. Moneybags, often realtors, bought the dates of a star. Films made from facile scripts were then replicated across southern India in other languages. Thus a content-driven industry of the so-called `golden age' gave way to the `hero-centric' remake culture.
 
 
 
 By moving away from the star system and concentrating on content with films such as Thithi, U-Turn, Godhi Banna Sadharana Maikattu, Rama Rama Re, Kahi, Ricky, Karvva and Last Bus, among others. These relative newbies ' only U-Turn and Last Bus's directors have prior filmmaking experience ' have filled cinemas and brought relief to the star-oppressed Sandalwood universe.Hemanth M Rao, director of Godhi Banna says it's a tragedy what two generations of cinema-goers have endured since the '90s.
 
 He says his father, a film obsessive, who would travel to Bengaluru, watch four films in one day and catch the last bus back to Mysuru hasn't returned to the cinema for a single Kannada movie in 15 years. Rao counts Kannada films of the '70-'80s as a sort of standard when experimentation was the vogue, 'I believe experimentation is cyclical. Now we are on the upswing. Young moviemakers are trying to find their voices and the audience seems open to acknowl edging this.'
 
 'U-Turn ' the first Kannada film on   ' did not go with the method of four-songs, four fights, one `item song'. Thithi blurred lines between art and commercial cin ema most successful ly. Rama Rama Re and Kirik Party were so fresh: nothing audiences had seen before,' says Rao.
 
 
 
 
 Sandalwood saw 175 releases last year, of which hardly 25 made any returns.Expensively-made films necessitate making back money spent on making them. This is naturally less of a problem for size zero budgets put to work on stronger scripts.New wave movies are proving effective, less gimmicky, a mainstay of the establishment.Some indie films went the kitschy horror way. Even, Jayanna, a commercial veteran known for films such as Ranavikrama and Mr&Mrs Ramachari, concedes a trend toward `intelligent' cinema: 'I distributed Kharvva and Godhi Banna. I see their potential, but even better: other people see it, too.' It seems clear the indie genre shone because of their unusual themes and their radical execution.
 
 
 
 
 Film writer K Nanjunda says audiences love a good story: 'no one asks you which pen you used to write a poem,' meaning the audience wants just good cinema. Also for eign influences are thick: 'Youngsters are exposed to a lot of world cinema and some films come not from personal exploration but world cinema. The good thing is most of them are concentrating on the narrative rather than cinematographic merit. Malayalam films rose in stature because of their writing.'
 
 Also Bengalurean ex-techies are getting behind the lens. S Venugopala ( ); actor   and   (RangiTaranga) and R Gurudutt ( ) are all examples. 'If they are guided into content and screenwriting, too, our films could beat anything in the market,' Nanjunda says.  , who argua bly started the indie trend with Lucia, fol lowing it up with U-Turn, is circumspect: 'We are better off than we were in 2011-12. We have followers among our audiences. Even with the second film I wasn't sure if it would only have an Internet release. We may make a profit but only because we spend so little on making them. After every film, I suffer burnout. There are so many constraints. It took me two years to start U-Turn after Lucia. It has been eight months since U-Turn and I haven't started anything new. Santhosh's Gombegala Love was such a great film but he hasn't made a movie in three years.'
 
 Rao says being hard up is whence o originality is sprung: 'the budget's a p problem only if you let it be. You can do g good content-driven films with tiny b budgets. That is also why more new comers are joining the fray.'
 
 
 
 
 As for box-office collections, he says nearly A A As for box-office collections, he says nearly 70 per cent of the audience for a regular s star-studded extravaganza will have w watched it in the very first week of release.B But for the underdog films making back While a film involving one of top four Kannada stars cannot be made for less than `20 crore, new age filmmakers must perforce remain pre-occupied with their budgets from the time their pens touch paper. 'It is common to see 5-6 caravans at the starry film shoots: the comedian wants one, the villain wants one and the heroine's mother too,' says an insider, 'while, filmmakers who sidestep the divas go to great extents to even find locations they do not have to pay for.' money is more of a drip feed. They generally have only 20 per cent of their audiences show up to cinemas in the first week, he says, and then maintain the flow (if they're lucky). It is the numbers in consequent weeks that determines their success.
 
