HYDERABAD: Thyroid, diabetes and infectious diseases have emerged as the top three health issues plaguing women in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Jostling with them for space in the top slots are pollution-related respiratory illnesses, infertility, and breast and cervical cancers. 

 City doctors blame the rise in health problems in women on changing lifestyle and food habits, irregular sleeping pattern and office-related stress. 
 
 Take for instance, hypothyroidism (lack of adequate thyroid hormone). “Women (15.86%) are three times more likely to be affected by hypothyroidism than men (5.02%). The problem is more pronounced in the age group of 46-54 years.Lifestyle patterns like non-vegetarian diet and smoking have a direct impact on the thyroid gland,“ said internal medicine expert Dr  . If left untreated, hypothyroidism can lead to increased cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart issues and reduced fertility , he warned.
 
 Senior psychologist Dr   suggests cutting down on stress to avoid most such diseases. “Our psychological state can trigger diabetes.There is an increase in the number of working women in the city . Work pressure and shift patterns lead to erratic changes in eating habits, resulting in weight gain. Stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol increase the glucose levels in blood,“ she said.
 
 Limiting women to household chores may also cause health issues such as Vitamin D deficiency . Dr   nahatti, obstetrician and gynaecologist at   suggests that women should indulge in outdoor activities for a balanced life.
 
 Referring to increasing cases of cancers, Dr   la, medical oncologist at the American Oncology Institute says breast and cervical cancers account for 50%of all cancers in the city. There has also been a 20-30% increase in infertility cases, said Dr Anitha K, infertility specialist. “Apart from late pregnancy , stress, long working hours with erratic timings, bad dietary habits and lack of exercise result in weight gain and hormonal imbalances,“ she said.
 
