Colva:   season is no longer a season of no business for the Goa’s   industry with the ministry marketing the state as an all-year-round tourism destination, with special focus on hinterland attractions, wildlife sanctuaries, waterfalls, spice plantations, festivals, adventure and yoga, ayurveda and spa. However, poor facilities are keeping visitors concentrated along the popular beach belts.

 Director of Tourism Menino D’Souza said the department’s focus has shifted from sun, surf and sand to ecotourism, hinterland and monsoon tourism. Talking about the other monsoon interests cited on the department’s brochure, he said, “In the past, monsoon festivals were held locally, but now both domestic and foreign tourists are showing keen interest in them. The festivals showcase Goa’s culture, customs, traditions, heritage and hinterland cuisine,” and added that the arrivals in 2016 touched 55% as against the 10-12% prior to 2012.
 
 However, hinterland tourism is finding poor response with tourists saying they prefer to stick close to the more popular  . They cite poor transportation and accommodation in the hinterlands as some of the reasons for this.
 
 Take for example the case of a tourist wanting to visit a waterfall, which the tourism department projects as a monsoon attraction. In particular, look at a visit to the famous Dudhsagar waterfall. The government has prohibited vehicular movement to transport visitors to Dudhsagar during monsoon, for safety reasons. The department had proposed to the Konkan railways to provide train service to the famous Dudhsagar waterfall during the monsoon some two years ago, but nothing has moved forward on that front.
 
 One tourist family disappointed with their monsoon visit told TOI that the brochure promises festivals, but these, unlike the Carnival, hold no touristic appeal. “Additionally, there is no transport infrastructure to visit sanctuaries, and if you do not see animals it is a waste of time and money. Spice garden are good but they are privately owned and some come with hefty packages,” they said and added that better infrastructure in the hinterlands could help attract tourists interested in the state’s natural beauty. 
 
 “We prefer this season because it is not crowded. We have been coming to   for the last four-five years, but are not attracted to the festivals, wildlife sanctuaries, etc,” tourist Manish Singh from Mumbai, who is currently holidaying in Goa along with his friends, told TOI. Given the poor transport facility, the group said they are availing of the rent-a-bike option to move around.
 
 Even on the coastline, which swarms with international and domestic travellers, people find that their choices for quality accommodation and shopping are limited during the monsoon.
 
 “While Goa is green in the rainy season, the beaches do not look their best. Similarly, the choice for accommodation, restaurants (shacks) and shopping is limited as they tend to close down for the lean season,” Natalie Dabney from Britain said.
 
 The tourism department successfully promotes white water rafting in the north for the niche adventure-loving tourists and treks for families. In South Goa monsoon activities for tourists are few.
 
 Agreeing that there is a scope for improvement of infrastructure in the hinterlands, president, TTAG, Savio Messias, said that as of now not many tourist want to go there.
 
 “Business during monsoons spikes just during the weekends. We are getting tourists who are primarily coming just for the weekends. Activities are restricted to the beaches and people prefer to enjoy the nightlife there rather than going to the hinterlands,” he said.
 
 
