The Japanese art of Forest Bathing could just be the wellness break you need this spring

 Take a moment. Slow down. Breathe in… retain… breathe out. Vacate your mind, disengage your senses. You are in a forest, make the most of it. The Japanese invented the curative practice of Shinrin-yoku, literally translating into “taking in the forest atmosphere” or “forest bathing”. The idea took form way back in 1982 but is finding enough relevance in the present-day chaotic world. Wellness is big and travellers are waking up to the sights, smells and sounds of nature on their vacations for physiological and psychological well-being. 
 
  
 
  If your average walk in the park makes your day, a forest bath could do much more. A study conducted across 24   in Japan found that when people strolled in a wooded area, their levels of the stress hormone, ‘cortisol’ dropped almost 16 per cent more than when they walked in an urban environment. One of the biggest benefits of being in a forest comes from breathing in stress-relieving chemicals called phytoncides, emitted by trees and plants. 
 
  “Forest bathing is immersing in the aura, vibes and medicinal aromas of trees. Be it a sun bath or a forest bath, the idea is to surrender. Unlike in a mountain hike or other outdoor therapies, you needn’t be involved or active,” says Acharya Neeraj, a spiritual and yoga guru who conducts wellness workshops on  . The stress here is on ‘not doing anything’. According to him, the senses get regulated well in a forest setting and hormones reach a harmonious balance. All kinds of healing are possible, provided you switch off and do it under the right guidance.
 
  
 
  For Mumbai-based graphic designer Swati Paranjape, nature did what no medicine could. With more than 35 symptoms of fibromyalgia, she tried several treatments, from acupuncture and Pilates to psychological counselling, but nothing worked. “Urban environment overworks our sensory nerves. I used to dread visiting malls and crowded roads since they left me exhausted,” she recalls. And then one day, on one of her wildlife conservationist friend’s invitation, she retired to the wild for a few months. “I had actually climbed a mountain within a month of shifting,” she shares, adding, “Forests inspire you in a big way. Being one with them is the best place to be.”
 
  
 
 
  Why do we instantly connect with the woods? Because it is home. We evolved out of the forests, after all. “Man and nature go back a long way. Once you’ve discovered the magic of being in a forest, you try and conserve it and build a lifelong relation with it,” says Swathi Chatrapathy, a Bengaluru-based writer and traveller. She adds, “The healing nature of a forest also depends on its thickness. The best time, I would say, to try out forest therapy is in the flowering season (March-April) in the jungles of Uttarakhand. One must explore the rhododendron forests of Brahmatal and Deoriatal or the Talle Valley in Arunachal, a rather unexplored haven.”
 
 
 
 
 
  A unique preserve of tropical evergreen rainforests which hosts flora and fauna found nowhere else in the world. Situated in the Palakkad district of Kerala, it is a Garden of Eden for students of life sciences, professional scientists and field biologists, other than, of course, peace lovers. 
 
 
  Frequented by writers looking for a quaint retreat or nature lovers, Binsar Wildlife Sanctuary is an alluring destination. Situated in the heart of Kumaon, it has 50 sq km of high altitude protected area with dense oak, rhododendron and pine forests. 
 
  
 
 
  Shola forests are montane evergreen forests found in the highest reaches of the Western Ghats. The evergreen trees of the tropical forest never shed their leaves, and unlike other forest trees form a thick canopy not permitting the sun’s rays to penetrate the foliage. It is an abode of the endangered Nilgiri Tahr and the majestic flower ‘Neelakurinji’ which blooms every 12 years!
 
  
 
  The colourful Chopta forests display a dramatic transformation. The mixture of varied tree colours can’t be described in words. The best time to visit Chopta is April-May. These months get light showers and the valley is covered in sparkling hues.
 
 Forest therapy reduces blood pressure, fights stress, improves mood and sleep pattern.
 
 "The idea is to simply surrender. Unlike in a hike or other outdoor therapies, you needn’t be involved or active in a forest bath."
  
 
 
 
 
