BELAGAVI: A woman’s greed for   got her into deep trouble, uncovering an illicit affair and a gruesome  .

 Prabavathi, 30, is now behind bars for allegedly killing her   and destroying the body with her boyfriend’s help.
 
 The murder may not have come to light if Prabavathi, whose husband disappeared in 2012, had not visited her marital home and demanded her husband’s share of property for herself.
 
 Prabavathi, an agricultural labourer from Shibaratti village in Dharwad taluk, had married Basavaraj Jhunjari, who was almost twice her age. A native of Neginhal village in Bailhongal taluk in 2004, Jhunjari shifted to Dharwad with his new wife. The turn in her life came when she met  , a resident of Karadigudda, and was attracted to him. 
 
 Their friendship bloomed into an affair, which went on for some time until her husband Jhunjari caught them. When he warned his wife to mend her ways, she plotted to get rid of him. With Rudragoudar’s help, they bludgeoned him to death with a stone when he was asleep.
 
 The pair, along with friends Shivaji Shankar Shinde and  , disposed of the body by burning it. After hushing up things, the couple got married and had a child. 
 
 Even four years after the murder, Jhunjari’s family was unaware of what had happened, until recently, when Prabavathi went to Neginhal and demanded a share in the property.
 
 Vittal, one of Basavaraj’s brothers, asked her to bring her husband with her to get his share. When she started behaving in a evasive manner, the brothers got suspicious and lodged a missing complaint with Bailhongal police.
 
 Police began investigations and zeroed in on the duo, who are facing charges of homicide and destruction of evidence.
 
 Based on the complaint registered by Vittal on April 5, police took Prabavathi into custody from her village, Shibaragatti, while Mallanagouda was picked from his village Karadigudda on Thursday. During interrogation, the duo confessed to the crime and revealed the two others who had helped them dispose of the body. 
 
