AHMEDABAD: Three members of a farmer family from Patdi village of Surendranagar have approached the   because they couldn’t deposit old currency notes worth Rs 46 lakh in bank after   for not having PAN cards. 

 The farmers, including one Vasantbhai Patel, applied for PAN cards only after November 8, when they realized it was necessary, as   refused to accept the huge amount of cash in old notes without accompanying PAN cards.
 
 Ultimately, the farmers received PAN cards in February. But by then, they had already lost the chance to safely deposit their money with the bank, which redirected them to the  . 
 
 This was because of the Centre’s ordinance issued on December 30, 2016 by which it cancelled the deadline of March 31 to deposit old notes with the RBI. The facility was then available for NRIs only. The   refused to accept the money of the farmers.
 
 The advocate representing the farmers, Purvish Malkan, said that they have challenged the December 30 ordinance to alter last date to deposit old notes with the RBI on grounds that the Centre does not have powers to issue the ordinance, which is against the fundamental and constitutional rights of a citizen. There is a provision in the ordinance saying that in a genuine case, where a person failed to deposit money within stipulated time, his case may be considered.
 
 The Centre has opposed the petition. After preliminary hearing, the bench headed by Chief Justice J S Khehar asked Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi to reply by April 11 as to why the Centre and RBI did not consider the power under clause 4(2)(i) of the ordinance to consider the case of the petitioners.
 
 After the SC posted further hearing in April, the petitioners raised concern that the deadline to deposit the money is March 31. The bench said that they can make representation to the authorities in this regard.
 
 Advocate Malkan said that there are two other petitions by people who failed to deposit old notes in time with banks. “Both these matters will be heard with our petition. In one of the cases, a woman from Patna, who was living in Delhi, had gone to her native place for delivery in November last year. She returned to Delhi in January and could not deposit around Rs 3.5 lakh in bank,” the lawyer said.
 
