Nagpur: Despite the threat of non-accreditation looming large over all the four State Agriculture Universities (SAUs), the Maharashtra Agriculture Univesities Recruitment Board (MAURB) has scrapped the recruitment process of 11 posts of deans and directors in the SAUs. The interviews were scheduled from March 1 to March 6. These recruitments were to happen after a gap of nine years (last recruitment in 2008).

 The MAURB did not put a technically correct advertisement, putting the fate of these eleven posts at stake. Ram Kharche, the vice chairman of the Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research (MCAER), who also holds the additional charge of MAURB, told TOI that four candidates who had applied for different posts as per the advertisement raised certain objections in the recruitment process and hence the process was put on hold.
 
 “We received 296 applications from 72 candidates for the 11 posts. Of these 20 applications were rejected as two persons had applied late and 15 were not eligible. Of the total applications, four persons had either reached the age of 60 years or were about to do so hence we decided not to call these four persons. It is these four candidates who have raised objections due to which the recruitment is on hold. But I assure that the recruitment process will be resumed soon and appointments will be done at the earliest,” said Kharche.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the SAUs said that the universities desperately need to fill these posts as out of the 12 posts of deans and directors only one is filled. “The accreditation of all the four SAUs in Maharashtra is on stake as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has given only two years provisional conditional accreditation to the universities because of two major reasons. One of this reason is huge number of vacancies in the SAUs. Sources also have objected to Kharche holding the charge of chairman of MAURB,” said a senior professor.
 
 However Kharche clarified that it was he who started the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) after 10-15 years gap and cleared the process for Dr. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth Dapoli and the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University. “I will complete in recruitment process in a fortnight or so,” he said.
 
 The former chairman of the Agriculture Scientists Recruitment Board C D Mayee told TOI that the advertisement was faulty. “In fact I feel the board should be abolished and the respective vice chancellors of the SAUs should be given the power of filling these posts. The board should be an independent body to make an impartial recruitment. But this board is not an independent unit,” he said. 
 
 One dean’s and two director’s posts vacant in each of the four SAUs
 
 Only one director’s post filled at Rahuri
 
 Four SAUs given two year’s conditional accreditation by ICAR
 
 Interviews were to be held between March 1 and 6
 
 MCAER Vice Chairman can’t be given additional charge of MAURB
 
 
