New Delhi: The third day of   at   saw a much bigger crowd of anxious   and aspirants still unsure about the   procedure and troubled by the non-functioning admission portal. All the more, the university does not have a help desk yet. This has left many current and former students of DU attend to the needs of confused aspirants.

 Shweta, Soni and Akansha arrived on Wednesday morning to assist the applicants unsure of admissions in DU. Former graduates from the university, they said they are “well-versed with the admission procedure and can help out with aspirants’ concern about calculating the ‘best four’ subjects”.
 
 “Applicants need proper guidance while applying for admission in DU,” said Soni, a BCom graduate from Zakir Husain college. 
 
 The three friends decided among themselves to help out as most of them and their parents are worried because there has been no registration or payment in the DU admission portal yet.
 
 “As soon as the Class XII results are declared, the number of anxious parents and applicants coming to the university will rise,” said Shweta, who is currently pursuing hospitality as a career.
 
 Much like them, St Stephen’s College student Anu Augustine says that she came to the Open Day to get more information to help out other aspirants. “I will use this information to clear the doubts of my school juniors back home in Kota, Rajasthan,” she said.
 
 The second year BCom honors student said that many of her school juniors want to know about how to get admission in the university through sports quota. “They are troubled by the web portal not functioning at all,” Augustine added.
 
 Another student of Kirori Mal College, Bhupinder Chhauhan said that he and his friends will try to assist candidates coming in for their queries. “Most of them are coming in to ask about cut-offs and online registration, and since the portal hasn’t started, they are ready to reach out to anyone for help — either the officials or students like us,” he said.
 
 However the university officials have already said that aspirants should be wary of getting data from those who may not be trained for this. “We are interviewing volunteers and a help desk will be set up soon,” said Gurpreet Tuteja, deputy dean of student’s welfare (DSW).
 
 
