New Delhi: Delhi   Rail Corporation seems to be sticking to its stand to go ahead with the fare hike on October 10.   chief   had, after his meeting with Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday, told reporters that he had briefed the minister on how the decision to hike the fare had been reached and that this decision stands for now. Though he made no statement on Saturday, a press release by DMRC justified the need for a hike, pointing out that “Metro fares have been decided independently by a fare fixation committee which is a statutory body”. 

 DMRC ferries 27 lakh passengers daily. According to sources, the committee took note of the fact that “the projected expenditure on Metro operation and maintenance in 2017-18 has increased to Rs 3,127 crore as compared to Rs 1,795 crore in 2016-17 (74% increase). So, if fares are not increased, the net operating profit becomes negative from 2016-17 onwards.” The committee has apparently pointed out that “this is what happened with DTC, which is gradually becoming a liability not only for the government but ultimately for the public in terms of poor quality and inefficient service”. 
 
 The committee cited the case of Washington Metro where absence of a regular increase in fares resulted in a situation which led to the services being discontinued for a short period. In Tokyo Metro, it was argued, if there is any shortfall in the revenue to meet expenses, the government revises the upper limit of fare. In MTR Hong Kong Metro, the fare is revised every year and, therefore, the increase is 3% to 5% annually.
 
 The committee recomended an automatic annual increase mechanism which may be acceptable to passengers. This practice has been adopted by the Hong Kong and Singapore metros and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation too. 
 
 “Since 2009, there has been no fare increase whereas the input cost for DMRC has increased by over 105 % in energy, 139 % in staff cost and 213 % in repair and maintenance,” DMRC has argued in its statement released on Saturday. 
 
 It has been further pointed out that “DMRC has taken a huge loan from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and a payment of Rs. 26,760 crore is outstanding. Morevoer, DMRC has to provide for depreciation and replacement of various assets such as the trains (rolling stock) which have a life of 30 years and will have to be replaced subsequently, and for this provision has to be kept. Inspite of operating efficiently, DMRC is making a net loss of Rs 378 crore in view of the above factors.”
 
 “The long gap of over eight years in the formation of a fare fixation committee has resulted in the fare hike in percentages, which if seen on a yearly basis is in a reasonable range of 7-8 % per annum, taking into account the two phases of the fare hike (Phase-I: May 2017; Phase-II: October 2017).” 
 
 The corporation also claimed that “once Phase-III of Delhi Metro is fully operational, commuters on many routes will have to travel shorter distances and will be paying less.”
 
