MUMBAI: Be on your guard when you are driving on Santacruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR) or in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). Some ‘Good Samaritans’ may turn up to alert you about sparks and smoke coming from the car and dupe you on the pretext of helping get it repaired. 

 Kurla   recently busted a   who moved around dressed as  . They would stop motorists by knocking on their windows (thus the term ‘tak tak’) and say smoke was emanating from the engine. On the pretext of helping the driver, they would either take away the person’s belongings or ask him to pay a hefty sum by claiming to have carried out repairs. Police have arrested three of the gang, booked them under IPC sections 420 and 511 for cheating and attempting to commit offences, and are looking for their leader.
 
 A victim with a multinational firm at BKC, who was nearly duped, helped get the gang arrested by writing to police commissioner Dattatray Padsalgikar about the incident. 
 
 Police said on March 2, he was driving his Scorpio towards BKC on the SCLR; traffic flow was slow and a man appeared and told him there was smoke below his vehicle. “It was around 6.30pm, he got off, and the man told him to bend down to see the smoke. He said there was a garage nearby and he knew a mechanic who would help. The man got into the car and made a call. When the vehicle reached the garage, two persons came out,” said an officer.
 
 They claimed to be mechanics and the man in the car requested them to help the motorist. “The two opened the bonnet and removed some part and told him it had to be changed or the car would go up in flames. They told him to pay Rs 14,000 for spare parts but the complainant refused. Fortunately, residents from a nearby building came to his rescue and the trio fled,” added officer. 
 
 Police got a tip-off that the gang could be from the Govandi slums. “With the help of Govandi police, we arrested three habitual offenders and we are looking for another,” said inspector S Rane of Kurla police. 
 
