COIMBATORE: Nearly 60% candidates from the  ,  , grow up to become  , said the director of legal studies,  , Chennai, N S Santhosh Kumar at the first graduation day of the college on Sunday here. He said a significant number of students from the college take up postgraduate courses and state government jobs. 

 More than 38 years since its inception, the law college celebrated its first graduation day at the Usha Kirtilala Mehta convention centre in Bharathiar University. Santhosh Kumar was the special guest and delivered the presidential address. He said, “Until now, the convocation was conducted in Chennai when the governor, who is also the chancellor of the university, would give degrees to the candidates. Only a set of toppers from each college would get the privilege to receive the degree.” Santhosh Kumar added, “Organizing separate graduation day for each college was a move taken to motivate each graduate.” 
 
 Justice M M Sundaresh was the chief guest for the function. He spoke about the importance of being a good human being before becoming a good advocate. Sundaresh who has spent a few years in the region told the graduates that they should learn the art of advocacy. “An advocate is a social scientist. He should be a doctor, a scientist, an engineer and everything to be a good advocate,” he said. 
 
 Sundaresh also spoke about the opportunities of growth in the legal profession. He said, “One should set a goal in life.” The Madras high court judge pointed out the shortage of judges in the lower and higher courts of the country and urged the graduates to aim for becoming a judge. “There is need for 60,000 judges in the lower courts and about 2,000 in the higher courts,” he said. 
 
 Stating that India is a developing country, there should be more civil cases and less criminal cases in the future. “As the awareness about Rights and law spreads, we will see more civil cases. And this means we will need more advocates and judges,” he said. 
 
 A total of 722 candidates between the batches of 1999 and 2015 had applied for the graduation day. And, nearly 500 graduates received their degree. 
 
 
