BATHINDA:   (PSPCL) recovered pending   of Rs 62.20 crore in 22 days of February.

 It had started a campaign of realizing power dues from government departments and individuals on February 5. The PSPCL received Rs 15.08 crore from various government departments and Rs 47.12 crore from individuals in 22 days.
 
 The corporation has dues of Rs 745 crore towards government departments and Rs 323 crore towards individuals till January 31.
 
 Though the recovery is miniscule against the dues, it is for the first time in more than five years that the PSPCL authorities have started getting outstanding payments at an average of Rs 3 crore per day. In the last few months before the state assembly elections, PSPCL was able to recover only Rs 20-25 lakh a month, said sources.
 
 The campaign to recover outstanding payments is expected to continue till March 31. Sources said PSPCL wants to make   of more than Rs 200 crore in March. PSPCL is facing problem in realizing dues from the government departments and is holding meetings with the power secretary to take up issue with various departments to pay their dues.
 
 PSPCL has 82 lakh consumers across the state and nearly 10% have been put in the category of defaulters with 8.28 lakh individual and 15,000 cases of default by government departments.
 
 As per the accounts prepared by PSPCL, it got Rs 4.06 crore from government departments in the border zone circle, Rs 2.61 crore in the north zone circle, Rs 2.79 crore in the west zone circle, Rs 1.62 crore in the central zone circle and Rs 4 crore in the south zone circle from February 5 to 27.
 
 Likewise, the recoveries from individuals turned out to be Rs 14.25 crore in the border zone, Rs 6.41 crore in the north zone, Rs 4 crore in the west zone, Rs 15.46 crore in the central zone and Rs 7 crore in the south zone in the 22 days.
 
 A senior   said the corporation was on its way to recover maximum dues from the government departments and the individuals. “PSPCL does want to be lax in recovering pending dues from defaulters, wants to showcase itself as an efficient organization before the new government that takes charge in the middle of March,” he said.
 
 PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) K D Chaudhary, “We have realized dues at nearly Rs 3 crore a day in the last 22 days. We are worried over the pending dues towards the government departments who might be facing budgetary provisions in paying the money. We will hold a meeting with the power secretary to take up issue of pending dues from various departments.”
 
 
 
 
 Bathinda: Electricity supply to six waterworks by the PSPCL at Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s native village Badal has been snapped in the last two days for not paying nearly Rs 40 lakh as outstanding dues. Out of total 50 villages falling under the Badal division, waterworks of 40 villages have outstanding dues of nearly Rs 3 crore, said Badal division executive engineer Harish Gothwal. The water for drinking purposes is supplied to villagers through these waterworks. He added that the notices had been issued to others to pay dues immediately to avoid disconnection. Earlier, power supply of Badal village multi-purpose stadium was snapped on February 22 for not paying the dues of Rs 3 lakh. 
 
 
