KOCHI: The   here on Saturday remanded the prime accused in the abduction and alleged rape of an actor in Kochi, 'Pulsar' Suni alias   and   in police custody till March 5.

 The   had submitted a plea for custody stating that it was necessary for the probe into conspiracy behind the case. The public prosecutor also sought   to conduct a polygraph test which the court didn't consider for the time being.
 
 Meanwhile, there was confusion in the court room as a few lawyers appeared before the court claiming to be Suni's counsel. Finally, Adv Tenny argued for Suni while Adv EC Poulose argued for Vigeesh. Adding to the confusion, another advocate claiming to represent criminal lawyer B A Aloor, who is the counsel of Jisha murder accused, Ameerul Islam and of Soumya case accused Govindachami, appeared at the court. 
 
 However, Aloor hasn't officially been appointed as the accused's counsel. Advocate Krishnakumar S later claimed that he was the counsel of Suni and Tenny appeared on his behalf.
 
 Adv Aloor said that though he is yet to document the same, he will be appearing for Suni soon. "Suni is yet to sign a 'Vakalat', however I will be appearing for him," said Aloor.
 
 The prosecutor maintained in the court that the accused's presence is essential for recovering his mobile phone with memory card as the crime has been allegedly recorded in the same. The special investigation team also submitted that they will have to take the accused to their hideouts in Coimbatore for evidence collection.
 
 Meanwhile, in an identification parade held at Aluva sub-jail on Saturday, the survivor identified four of the accused - Manikandan, Martin, Vadival Salim and Pradeep.
 
 "The survivor arrived at the sub-jail by 3pm and identified all the accused. She later came to Aluva Police Club and gave further statements," said police sources. The actor narrated the ordeal to the investigation team and answered questions, said police.
 
 Judicial first class magistrate, Aluva, supervised the parade. The magistrate will file a report of the same to judicial first class magistrate, Angamaly, where the case is being considered.
 
