NAGPUR: The Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), with help from the district administration and city survey office, has included a major chunk of a public road into two residential plots; one owned by itself and one by IAS officer  . This has been done to resolve an ownership dispute between NIT and Patne over the two adjacent plots at Gorepeth.

 The two residential plots — with city survey numbers 102 and 103 — are at Gorepeth in mouza Gadga. As per city survey record, area of plot no. 103 was 727.80 sq m in the akhiv patrika. Area of plot no. 102 was 432.30 sq m.
 
 Claiming ownership of the two plots, NIT had planned a 15-unit flat scheme for higher income group in May 2011. The plan was to complete the flat scheme by December 2012. NIT commenced construction on plot no. 103, but there was a compound wall between plot no. 103 and 102. NIT collected details and alleged that Patne constructed the compound wall illegally. It also issued notice in the name of Atul Patne’s mother Prabhavati.
 
 Patne had purchased the plot with 202.41 sq m area on April 9, 2008, in his mother’s name. Patne was additional municipal commissioner at the   (NMC) at that time.
 
 However, NIT demolished the compound wall, insisting Patne did not own any plot, and both plots belonged to it. NIT also said the two plots were acquired by it in 1947.
 
 TOI had, on July 31, 2015, reported on this ownership dispute between NIT and Patne. On August 5, 2015, TOI also reported Patne’s statement that he would give up the plot in case NIT proved its ownership of the plot.
 
 NIT then submitted an appeal to superintendent of land record (SLR) on October 28, 2015, seeking area correction of plot no. 102 and 103. Considering this application, the city survey office submitted its recommendation to the SLR. The case was then submitted to the district administration for area correction of the two plots.
 
 Subdivisional officer Shirish Pande passed an order on December 7, 2016, increasing the area of both plots. Area of plot no. 103 was increased to 853.15 sq m and plot no. 102 to 518.25 sq m. Also, Pande passed an order giving share of 202.41 sq m to Patne, and 315.84 sq m to NIT in plot no. 102. “There is no impact on adjacent plots. But there is impact on road situated adjacent to the plot,” Pande said in his order.
 
 Then, SLR issued an order following which the city survey office issued a map with area correction. An area of 211.30 sq m from adjacent road was shown in plot no. 102 and 103, almost equal to the area claimed by Patne.
 
 RTI activist TH Naidu told TOI it clearly shows that NIT grabbed a public road to resolve its dispute with Patne. “Dispute was of ownership, so SLR and city survey office should have clarified whether ownership was of either NIT or Patne. Area correction was done only to accommodate both NIT and Patne. Area of plots cannot exceed that in akhiv patrika,” he said.
 
 Now, all officials are passing the buck on each other, and no one is commenting whether area of public road can be taken into residential plots.
 
 Pande told TOI NIT was planning authority of the city, so a part of the road was shown in the two plots as per NIT’s application. “NIT is the authority to decide area of residential and roads or public places in a layout,” he claimed.
 
 NIT chairman   said district administration passed the order, so NIT has nothing to do with it. “NIT has got its area,” is all he said.
 
 Patne said he had nothing to do with the road since NIT applied for area correction and got it done from the district administration. “I accepted the area correction on condition of no impact on my plot. I constructed compound wall on plot as per measurement done by city survey office. I also obtained stay from HC against NIT notice to demolish the compound wall. NIT failed to show its ownership documents. NIT filed an appeal with deputy director of land records and the order went against NIT. I don't know what NIT is doing at its level for using FSI in its flat scheme. It is altogether NIT’s issue and I can’t comment on it. I still stand by my decision that NIT should show me my plot in the layout if it’s NIT’s plot. I am ready to shift there and return this plot to NIT,” he said.
 
 
