Prakash Singh, former DG of BSF and ex-DGP of Uttar Pradesh as well as Assam, was appointed by the Haryana government to head the commission to probe acts of omission and commission by police as well as civil administration officials during the February 2016 Jat reservation violence. 30 persons were killed and 324 persons, including 67 security personnel, injured during the violence. The commission had on May 13 last year indicted 90 officials for deliberate negligence and malafide in its 451-page report submitted to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. After an year, Prakash Singh spoke to Sanjeev Verma of TOI on Haryana government delaying action and diluting his report. 

 
 
 
 A : I would say, Haryana government has implemented my recommendations partially. On the basis of my recommendations, the state had transferred then additional chief secretary of home department as well as then DGP. I have been told that they have also issued show cause notices to some police and administrative officers. Subsequently, in the face of political pressure the state government took action naam ke vaste (just for sure). I was told by earlier DGP KP Singh that they have taken some follow up action on my report like strengthening of anti-riot system.
 
 
 
 A : Technically, an employee should not be kept under suspension for a long time. But at the same time, the departmental enquiry should have been completed against the delinquent officials at the earliest. Thereafter appropriate action should been taken against them based on the findings.
 
 
 
 
 A : One can only regret that the enquiry has taken such a long time even after my detailed report. Like this, the matter would die its natural death and the state government would succeed in procrastinating its action against those guilty. Because of political pressure, even Liberhan Commission report on Babri Masjid demolition has been prolonged for more than 20 years.
 
 
 
 A : These days officers have political lobbies. Haryana politicians also put pressure on me to protect their protégés. Now those politicians would be pressuring the state government to not to act against those officers. What will the CM Manohar Lal Khattar do then?
 
 
 
 
 A : I would not comment on that. CIC ka kaam to kalam ghisne ka ha. But being DGP of the state he was the commander and should have acted promptly to fill the gaps on the field during such a mass violence. He was not to sit in Chandigarh being a commander.
 
 
 
 A : I don’t think they disrespected me. But across India, if any commission’s findings are not politically convenient, those would either be delayed or not implemented. But Haryana did a little better than Andhra Pradesh where I had submitted a report in 2004 regarding security lapses during an attack on then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu.
 
 
 
 
 A : It is highly regrettable. Now it is for the Supreme Court to take action which is playing it cool. During the tenure of the present Chief Justice of India (CJI) and the earlier CJI, the matter has not even been listed for hearing. Though the Supreme Court had issued notices to all the states and union territories in a related PIL seeking directions for filling up vacant posts in police departments as the matter was of less controversy.
 
 
 
 A : My contempt application is also pending in the Supreme Court since last 4-5 years. But even Supreme Court has not issued contempt notices to states. Whereas there have been many less important issues on which the Supreme Court had issued contempt notices. I suggest that the Supreme Court should take exemplary action against some states so that other states also wake up.
 
 
 
 
 A : Since I am out of Haryana so won’t be able to comment much. But it will depend on how much reinforcement the state police have done. I think they should be in a better position if they have learnt some lessons.
 
