Two vegetarian students hoping for a   at German Bakery Wunderbar on   were left with more than a bad taste in the mouth last week, when they were inadvertently served   by a   instead of the dish they ordered. They have lodged a complaint at the Deccan Gymkhana police station and even moved the consumer forum.

 Kaustubh Dighe and Mohit Gaurav (both 22) study law at a city-based college. Kaustubh belongs to Vadodara, Gujarat, while Mohit is from Uttar Pradesh. A peeved Kaustubh told Pune Mirror, “As I am a Gujarati Brahmin, I do not eat non-veg food. I never expected this kind of an experience at such a prominent restaurant, that too, during Navaratra, I was served a non-veg dish with pork. In fact, the restaurant served us the bill as well for the dish, which we hadn’t even ordered. Both of us are law students, so we wanted to take legal recourse. We contacted student activist Pranay Ajmera and he suggested that we approach the consumer forum and file a complaint.” Both filed a complaint with the consumer forum on Monday.
 
 According to the police complaint, “They went to the German Bakery Wunderbar on March 30 (Thursday). They ordered veg lasagna and hot chocolate for dinner, but were served a German Potato and Bacon Salad instead, by the restaurant’s waiter. After having a bite, Dighe realised that the dish was not vegetarian. Soon after, a waiter came to their table again and served their original order. When they asked the waiter about the previous dish, he replied that it was non-veg and that they were served the wrong dish.”
 
 Shocked, they dialled 100 and called the police. “The police took us to the Deccan police station and we lodged a complaint. The cops also called the restaurant manager and asked him to clarify the matter,” Kaustubh said. Friend Mohit added, “When we asked the manager, Gaurav Baraskar, about the issue, he misbehaved with us and replied arrogantly. That’s when we called the police. When we asked Baraskar to give us a written apology, all he wrote was that the order was wrongly served.”
 
 When Mirror contacted Gaurav Baraskar, he said, “I was not present in the restaurant at that time. A new waiter had served them a non-veg dish by mistake. The police called me and I gave them my statement.” According to the Deccan police, “The manager apologised in front of us, but both the complainants said they will file a complaint to the consumer forum as well.”
 
 But, the owner of the restaurant,  , who also happens to be a   (BJP) corporator, dismissed the charges, saying, “This cannot happen in the restaurant. Youths often make such allegations if they don’t want to pay the bill. This might also be the Opposition’s ploy to malign my image.”
 
 The German Bakery Wunderbar had opened in December 2014. The cafe that also has a bar, serves health food and continental snacks.
 
