KOLKATA: A cruise liner will be berthing at the Kidderpore docks on Saturday after eight long years. The 103m-long yacht-type cruise ship MV Silver Discoverer will berth in Kolkata with 93 passengers and sail out a couple of days later with 58. Among the passengers sailing out will be many who would be starting their cruise from the city.

 According to senior   (KoPT) officials, this is the first time in many years that a cruise ship is entering the Kolkata Dock System ( ). “This hasn't happened in many years,“ said S Balaji Arun Kumar, deputy chairman, KoPT. According to MV Silver Discoverer's agent in Kolkata, Sohom Shipping Pvt Ltd, the port will be handling a cruise ship after eight years.
 
 The ship will reach Kolkata from Thailand's Phuket via Bangladesh and return along the same route. “This is part of the Asia Exdition Cruise and each voya pedition Cruise and each voyage lasts 14 nights. The ship will reach Kolkata with 93 passengers. Ten of them are transit passengers while the remaining will disembark. We expect 58 more passengers to board from Kolkata. The ship will have a crew of 99. This will be a big boost for tourism in Kolkata and Bengal.
 
 The city, with its proximity to tourist destinations in southeast Asia, can emerge as a gateway to the rest of India. Similarly, international tourists can choose to visit places in India before arriving in Kolkata and sailing out,“ said Nabanita Dey of Sohom Shipping.
 
 According to Silversea Cru ises, the company that owns the vessel, the cruise has the highest crew-to-guest ratio in the industry. And this shouldn't come as a surprise with fares per guest starting from $10,450 (approx Rs 700,000). The itinerary includes travel through the mangroves in Bangladesh and visits to heritage sites in Myanmar. The passengers will get assistance from biologists, ornithologists and historians during the voyage. 
 
 According to a mariner, KoPT should make efforts to attract more cruise operators as ships like the MV Silver Discoverer don't require much draught and can traverse the Hooghly channel effortlessly. The returns from cruises could be quite high if facilities like a dedicated terminal can be developed.
 
