VIZAG: He poked around for a while, was “nervous” to start with but eventually settled down and began to deal in boundaries.  , who failed to register a fifty in his last nine innings in the domestic limited-overs (50-overs & T20s) tournaments, smashed a swashbuckling hundred (128, 122 balls, 13x4s, 3x6s) to help India Red beat India Blue by 23 runs after posting a total of 3278 in the opening match of the   at the Dr YSR ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium here on Saturday.

 It was Dhawan's 21st List A hundred in the first half and a hat-trick from medium-pacer   (364) late in the day that turned out to be the difference between the two sides.
 
 MSK Prasad, the chairman of selectors, looked pleased with Dhawan's efforts and had a chat with the southpaw after the match. Dhawan later said he was nervous initially but “was never” under pressure. “I just want to perform in this tournament, then I have IPL coming up. I don't worry much about the combinations. Once I perform, then my place will come automatically. That's how it is. If you keep things simple, then you have clarity,“ Dhawan told TOI.
 
 A disciplined Dhawan focussed hard to get back his lost mojo as pacers Shardul Thakur (046) and M Prasidh (061) beat his bat a few times.
 
 He was lucky as well. On quite a few occasions, Dhawan and his opening partner   (50) had problems in calling and ended up right in the middle of the pitch.
 
 In reply, senior India Blue batsman Rayudu (92) kept his team in the hunt till the 43rd over. However, ambidextrous spinner (bowls left-arm to right-handed batsman and off-spin against southpaws) Akshay Karnewar (360) claimed three key wickets -   (20), Krunal Pandya (31) and Rayudu ­ to tilt the match in favour of Red.
 
 Kulkarni's hat-trick: Kulkarni claimed a hat-trick to shut the door on Blue. He first dismissed Shardul Thakur in the final ball of the 47th over. He came back in the 49th over to remove the dangerous Hooda, caught at deep midwicket, and Kaul (3) off the first two deliveries to complete the feat and match.
 
