RANCHI: Comparing   with   may be a bit premature at this stage, but the 20-year-old's batting style does remind one of `Big Matt', the former opener-turned-television expert.

 On a bright Thursday morning at the JSCA International Stadium, Renshaw once again looked compact and crisp in scoring 44 before edging Umesh Yadav to Virat Kohli at slip. At the end of the day , the England-born opener rued missing out on a big score. “It was a good start but I would have preferred to get some more. Tried to do all my preparations right. In the beginning I was lucky that some of the balls were on my pads.Then there were a couple of runs and it helped me to get going,“ Renshaw said.
 
 The pitch was the talking point before the match, especially after Pune and Bengaluru produced treacherous tracks in the first two Tests, but Renshaw had nothing to complain about. “It played pretty well... It was quite good on Day I... Hope it will remain good throughout the Test match. Guess it will start to crumble as the game progresses,“ assessed the Queenslander. Looking ahead, Renshaw added, “Tomorrow's (Friday's) first session will be crucial. If we do win the first session, it will go a long way in helping us to win this Test match as well.“
 
 Asked whether Virat Kohli's absence in the field, after the 40th over due to a shoulder injury , led to a drop in intensity for the Indians, Renshaw answered in the negative. “I don't think so. There was no let-up in intensity but yes, less words were spoken. So that may have given that impression. They came hard and played hard cricket.“
 
 Renshaw had words of admiration for Smith, who notched up his second ton of the series. “Smith handled the situation very well. He showed that we are here for a cricket series and showed how to do it today . He has trained hard and made most out of that innings.“ Glenn Maxwell, who compiled a fine unbeaten 82, came in for praise as well.
 
 “He's a class player. How differently he did it today (Thursday) compared to his other innings, only he can say... But he played some good shots,“ Renshaw signed off.
 
 
