NEW DELHI: For the last 23 years, former Isro scientist   has been waiting for the day when just punishment would be meted out to three Kerala police officers who in October 1994 cooked up a   involving two Maldivian women to sully his reputation.

 Narayanan was discharged in 1996 on the basis of a CBI report, which recommended action against the officers for framing the scientist.
 
 The Kerala government dragged its feet and then appointed a special investigation team (SIT) for a fresh probe, but in 1998, the Supreme Court quashed the state government’s decision to reinvestigate the case. In 2001, the National Human Rights Commission ordered the state to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to him.
 
 But Narayanan was not happy with this. He strongly believed that he was targeted and framed because of a larger conspiracy among other countries to impede India from developing   that would’ve put India far ahead of many others in  . He moved the Kerala high court for action against the police officers who allegedly connived to foist the false case on him.
 
 The Kerala government defended the three officers 3 Siby Mathews, K K Joshwa and S Vijayan — and said they were good officers who had retired from service. But a single judge bench of the HC slammed the state government for defending them despite their perceptible omission and commission during investigation into the Isro spy case resulting in Narayanan’s victimisation. The officers appealed against this before a division bench of the HC, which set aside the single judge’s verdict.
 
 Aggrieved by the division bench’s order, Narayanan moved the SC in June 2015. A bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra issued notice to the Kerala government.
 
 Appearing for Narayanan, senior advocate V Giri had told the SC, “When liberty of a person, that too a scientist of high repute, is camatosed in such a manner, it is obligatory on the part of the state government to take stern action against the erring officials and the division bench of the HC failed to appreciate the reasoning of the single judge who had expressed his agony with regard to the cruelty meted out to Narayanan.”
 
 Giri further said, “In a situation like this, if the erring officers are allowed to go scot-free, it may give a long rope to the investigating agency to take anyone into custody without a reason. Such a situation would be anathema to the concept of justice.”
 
 Despite the SC promptly entertaining Narayanan’s petition in 2015, almost two years have passed because of the delaying tactics adopted by respondents in filing their response to the petition. But a bench headed by Justice Misra on Monday said the SC would brook no more delay and hear the case on Thursday.
 
 
