NEW DELHI: Appealing to people to opt for digital payments as a tool to fight corruption and black money, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that each and every individual doing so would be part of a “new anti-corruption“ cadre in the country.

 “Take it (digitalisation) further as it has a very major role in the fight against corruption and black money ...In a way , you are a solider in the cause of cleanliness and purity ,“ Modi said in his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.
 
 Listing the government's initiatives to promote digital transactions post-demonetisation, the Prime Minister said the newly-launched BHIM app would take the anti-corruption movement forward.
 
 Urging the youth and all those who have won prizes under 'Lucky Grahak Yojana' or `Digi-Dhan Vyapar Yojana' to use the BHIM App in a big way, he said, “We have to go from door to door, associating everybody, to place the BHIM app in 125 crore hands“.
 
 The PM also praised the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) for creating a world record by sending 104 satellites into space and spoke about the importance of science and technology in improving the lives of people. “After the successful mission of sending Mangalyaan to Mars, ISRO achieved another landmark on February 15 where it launched 104 satellites at one go. These satellites belong to several countries, including America, Switzerland, Israel and UAE. By launching 104 satellites, India has become the only country to do so,“ he said on the 29th edition of Mann Ki Baat.
 
 Pointing out that this was the 38th successful launch of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle undertaken by ISRO scientists, the PM said the Indian satellite, CATROSAT 2D, would help farmers gauge the availability of water in their area besides providing “accurate mapping of India's resources and infrastructure“ and helping “urban development planning“.
 
 Modi added that ISRO's cost-effective space programme had amazed the world.“This is one of the significant developments not only for ISRO, but also for India,“ he said.
 
