Haruki Murakami’s latest collection of  , 
 , tells different tales of different lives connected to each other by an apparent state of loneliness. Till now, Murakami’s tales have somehow fantasized loneliness and attributed it to romanticism. For the first time, the sting of a lonely state of being is well intended and can be felt across each of the seven stories. The book is a collection of narratives characterized by love, loss and pain that seem to be gnawing away the vitality of existence. 

  Much like his other books, Murakami’s storytelling in 
  doesn’t progress, but glides at a dreamy pace, stopping only to deliberate on existential questions that astonishingly, do not seem unstimulating. Every story of the book has a male protagonist suffering the loss of a woman or the pang of unrequited love. While “Samsa in Love”, a tribute to Kafka’s 
 , appears to be an allegory of sexual abandonment, “An Independent Organ” is an ode to the tangible realization of love lost even before it is found. The title story “Men Without Women” is an echo of Hemmingway’s 1927 collection of the same name, and is a haunting comedy of a man unable to date women without having them die shortly afterwards. 
 
  The stories present a mix of humour and melancholy, and it’s commendable how the essence has not been lost in translation. Murakami’s language in 
  is erotically constructed, glorifying the sexual fervour of men as existential loneliness. A celebrated lover of music,   weaves his tales with a jazz-like quality — sprightly and unexpected. 
 
  
 
 
  
  writes in 
 , “Murakami has a marvellous understanding of youth and age – and the failings of each.” 
 
  
  reviews the book in 
 , “His (Murakami’s) meandering, mesmerizing tales of profound alienation are driven by puzzling circumstances that neither his characters nor readers can crack”. 
 
  Reviewing the book for 
 , 
  writes, “Tortured love affairs, of course, are nothing new to Murakami’s vast store of plotlines; he can, with little more than the flick of his pen, unspool a fresh wrinkle to the delighted awe of his readers, as he dutifully (and repeatedly) does here.”
