Already struggling to arrange for fodder for cattle even as the state reels under   conditions, the state government is faced with another huge problem ­ the outbreak of Foot & Mouth Disease ( ) among the cattle and other hooved   across Karnataka.

 The sudden FMD outbreak has occurred in 11 districts of the state; but what has emerged as a grave threat is the largescale mobilisation of cattle to state-run `goshalas' for want of fodder ­ which could easily spread the highly contagious FMD among the cattle across the state, threatening to wipe out a considerable cattle population.
 
 FMD is a severe, highly contagious viral disease that affects the cattle and cloven-hooved ruminating animals. The disease spreads very quickly if not controlled. The severe symptoms include fever; blisters in the mouth, feet and teats; drastic drop in milk production; weight and appetite loss; quivering lips; frothing in the mouth; and even lameness.
 
 The disease, which has gripped the state in panic, has already claimed the lives of 10 cattle and forcing the state government to shut down two `goshalas' to contain the spread of the disease, that is also threatening to affect the state's milk production.
 
 The situation is compounded by complaints pouring in from members of the farming community over quality and dependability of vaccines supplied to check the spread of FMD even as the disease is rampantly being diagnosed among already vaccinated cattle.
 
 Prompted by the newfound threat, the animal husbandry department has not only decided to compensate the death of livestock due to the disease across all its `goshalas', but has also promised to commission a team of experts to ascertain the quality of FMD vaccines besides posting a veterinarian at each `goshala' to monitor the health of the cattle.
 
 
 
 
 The state government, which was completely engrossed in arranging for fodder for the thriving cattle population, was alerted about the FMD outbreak by various dairy units of   (KMF).
 
 Dairy units in Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Hassan, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar reported FMD cases and brought that to the notice of the animal husbandry department.
 
 In a swift move, samples were sent to the Animal Diseases Surveillance (ADS) wing of the veterinary department at Hebbal, which also confirmed the FMD outbreak.
 
 According to a copy of the report submitted to the government by the ADS wing, as many as 11 districts reported FMD outbreak.
 
 “The disease has spread across Karnataka, especially in  . The highest incidence is seen in Chikkaballapura district in five out of six taluks followed by four taluks of Kolar and three taluks of Ramanagara and Bengaluru Rural...,“ the report said.
 
 A farmer leader from Kolar attributed the outbreak to poor quality of FMD vaccines. “The FMD has been detected even in those cattle which have been previously vaccinated. We felt that there is problem in the vaccine supplied to cureprevent FMD. We have submitted a memorandum to the KMF and animal husbandry department to conduct an inquiry into the quality of the vaccine,“ said the farmer leader who wished not to be named.
 
 
 
 
 The animal husbandry minister A Manju has admitted that FMD has struck the state. “I was told about the spread of FMD by my officials. In fact, I have ordered the closure of two `goshalas' in Hassan and another place after the death of livestock. In fact, directions have been given out to screen the cattle population for FMD.As several farmers come with their livestock to goshalas, it is very difficult to keep a tab on every cattle. Yet our doctors have been working hard to check its spread. As farmers have complained about the quality of vaccines, I will ask the officials to submit a detailed report by conducting an inquiry by an experts' team,“ Manju said.
 
 The minister also revealed that a proposal has been sent to the government to support farmers who have lost their cattle to diseases at `goshalas' by paying a compensation of Rs 30,000.
 
 “It is yet to be approved by the government. In the meantime, we will deploy a veterinarian at each goshala to check the animals and document the health status on a daily basis,“ Manju said. The 12th round of FMD vaccination will be taken up from April 7 and the state government has appealed all to get their livestock vaccinated.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the veterinary department said, recently, large-scale animal mobilisation was reported from the neighbouring states. “In Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Mandya regions, farmers have brought livestock from Erode, Coimbatore districts of Tamil Nadu. In Kolar, too, cattle were brought from Andhra and Telangana regions. Perhaps this could be one of the reasons (for the outbreak),“ a senior veterinarian revealed.
 
 A senior scientist from Institute of Animal Health & Veterinary Biologicals (IAH&VB), in Hebbal, said, “Usually farmers do not get their cattle vaccinated every time. It has to be vaccinated twice in a year. But sometimes, those who would have vaccinated previously refuse to vaccinate it again fearing it would affect the milk yield. But nothing of that happens to livestock.“
 
