KOLKATA: Graduation and postgraduation degrees issued by universities will soon have to incorporate the name of the college and carry the student’s photograph. The student will also be required to provide his or her Aadhaar number that will be linked to the digital copy of the degree stored in the National Academic Depository. The move will enable institutions and companies to digitally authenticate the documents and counter the proliferation of fake degrees in the country.

 “This will rule out any possibility of mistaken identity as was portrayed in the movie ‘3 Idiots’ where   had impersonated   in college,” said human resource development minister  . The national academic depository will store all degrees and marksheets of students from colleges, B-schools, technology institutes and other institutions involved in higher education. Students will have access to the depository and can download their documents.
 
 “It will be of immense help to employers who wish to authenticate documents of prospective employees,” Javadekar said. 
 
 Though students will be required to link their Aadhaar number to the degree   awarded by universities, it will not be mentioned on the certificate to ensure that personal details of students are not divulged,” the minister clarified.
 
  has initiated the process by signing an MoU with the agency that prepares its certificates. “We will begin with the current students who have just bagged a degree in 2017 and thereafter will provide the same to students in previous batches,” vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Roychaudhury said, adding that it would eliminate the inconvenience of applying for attested copies of certificates. 
 
 However, some educationists feel the move could breed discrimination in the job market as employers could be influenced by the names of reputable colleges. Javadekar admitted as much, but argued that it is important to ensure quality. “This will facilitate employers to filter out candidates based on college ratings,” he added.
 
