This coming week and the next, grab your overnight bag and the most comfy shoes and get set to meet the stars. No, not the Bollywood kind that the city is so synonymous with. At this party, the red carpet will be replaced with a black one, as the night sky above plays host to the most beautiful celestial bodies. Say hello to   — one of the best relaxing activities and one that’s catching up with busy Mumbaikars. Over time, the city has seen a surge in these   lovers — from a handful that once considered it a pastime, to a whole universe of these like-minded folk out there now.

 
  
  
 Milind Kale, founder of an organisation of amateur astronomers in Mumbai, affirms this. “The number of groups that go stargazing now is more than double. Trekkers add this to their itinerary, school kids are taking it up as a field study and it has also become a family activity. This is gratifying, as it’s an indication of an improving scientific temperament in society.” Contrary to popular view, winter is not the only season to go stargazing. And it’s also like the starry drama unfolds with its own timings. He says, “Summer nights are not just pleasant, but offer their own attractions. During May, the   constellation is prominent in the evening sky. So is Canis Major (one of the brightest constellations, with   at its centre). Leo is right above-head too and on the eastern horizon, planet Jupiter with its moons is visible. Saturn rises after midnight and at twilight you see artificial satellites passing on our horizon.” 
 
  Adds Vikram Virulkar, an astronomer by profession, “Today, this hobby is gaining interest. Earlier, the demographic was just kids, but now, we have solo travellers, young professionals and homemakers as part of the group, which is great! And summer offers a clear night view. You can see the Great Bear, Saturn with its rings, constellations like Scorpio and Sagittarius, and in addition, you see   and shooting stars, at this time.” He shares how one field visit can make you go back again. “Being out there, amidst the quiet and stillness, with celestial bodies above, is such a humbling feeling. It’s also so de-stressing.” The groups go to places  , 150 km from Mumbai, which offer a clear view of the night sky. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 Post the weekend, if skies are clear, don’t miss the chance to view the arms of the Milky Way. Informs Milind, “You have the Perseus arm (the   is spiral and this one of the arms of its spiral shape) visible in the evening. After midnight, you will see the Sagittarius arm, both of which are beautiful. The next opportunity to do so will happen only in November, so do get out and catch this.” There is a certain drama that plays out here, too. Says Vikram. “The structure starts to look like a cloud between the east and south east, and the first thing you see is haze. As it starts rising, the shape gets more defined. It grows brighter and by 3 am (if your eyes are night-adapted by then), you see a definite arch and then realise it is something else entirely.”
 
 
  
  
 Mumbai, being a concrete jungle, plays spoilsport when it comes to viewing the night sky. The artificial bright lights emanating from skyscrapers, hoardings and the streets, causes a ‘light trespass’ or artificial sky glow that washes out the view. Says Rashi Shah, finance student and astronomer by hobby, “This light pollution has worsened over years. But when you ride even 10 miles out of the city, it’s like the sky has suddenly come alive — the starry sight is so mind-numbing! I ride out of Mumbai every weekend to catch the view.” 
 
 
 
 Board the afternoon train from CST to Kasara. Reach Kasara railway station. After a brief meet and greet session, proceed towards the campsite at Vaitarna by evening. Refreshments and an introduction and briefing session follow. You then head towards the riverside. Now, the first part of the stargazing session stars. Experts share information on astronomy.
 There is a break for dinner. Stargazing continues till late night. The last is a campfire and then 
 participants retire to rest in tents.
 
 After breakfast at 8 am, the group indulges in some fun and information-sharing by the riverside. Everyone then proceeds to Kasara station.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
