MUMBAI: After its major victories in municipal corporation, council and panchayat samiti polls, the   on Tuesday gained control over 10 out of 25   in the elections to presidents and vice-presidents. Showing its increasing political strength at all levels, the BJP emerged victorious despite the  ,   and   having quietly cut a few deals in certain regions to stave off the challenge from the ruling party. 

 The outcome is a setback especially for the Congress and NCP; they have secured only five zilla parishads each, down from seven and 10 in 2012 respectively. However, the Shiv Sena has gained by securing control over five zilla parishads—up from one in 2012.
 
 With BJP’s Tuesday victory, chief minister   has emerged stronger than ever. The party had a clear majority in three zilla parishads (Latur, Wardha and Chandrapur), while it gained control over seven other zilla parishads with help from other parties. In Beed, it was supported by local front Shiv Sangram, while in Kolhapur and Sangli, it was backed by the Shiv Sena. In Jalgaon, the BJP got the support of the Congress, in Buldhana it was supported by NCP and in Gadchiroli the party won with the help of a local front. 
 
 The highlight of the elections was arch-rivals voting for each other. For instance, the Shiv Sena had a clear majority only in Ratnagiri, but it was able to win in four other zilla parishads following support from Congress (Aurangabad, Nashik and Hingoli) and NCP (Jalna). Consequently, the outcome of the election in Jalna, home town of state BJP chief Raosaheb Danve, was a major setback for the BJP, which is the single largest party there. 
 
 In Beed, leader of opposition Dhananjay Munde suffered a setback as the NCP failed to gain control over the zilla parishad despite being the largest party. The BJP’s win here was strategised by his arch political rival and rural development minister Pankaja Munde. 
 
 The Congress won in Nanded, Ahmadnagar, Amravati, Yavatmal and Sindhudurg zilla parishads. The NCP won in Parbhani, Satara and Pune on its own, while in Raigad, PWP came to its rescue and surprisingly, in Osmanabad, the BJP abstained from voting, resulting in an NCP win.
 
 
