MEERUT: Pledging support for BSP supremo Mayawati, three videos -- one of Buddhist Americans, of Americans and of a European national -- have surfaced on the internet. In the videos, the Americans speak in favour of   "because they believe in gender and religious equality". The videos were posted on the official Twitter page of 'Ambedkar Caravan' -- an online web portal that runs anti-caste campaigns and has a collection of BR Ambedkar's writings.

  The first video with the subject ‘American Buddhists appeal to vote for Behan Mayawati and BSP’ shows at least 16 Americans sitting in front of a Buddha idol. In the 37-second video, the woman addressing Indians "on behalf of all Americans", says: "Greetings from the United States. I am here with my Buddhist friends somewhere in North East US. We are here to support Mayawati -- a beautiful woman who is trying to change the world. We are in full support of her values and principles, and we want everybody to support her. So, here we go. Jai Bheem. Good luck, Mayawati!" (sic.)
 
  Ambedkar’s Caravan founder   -- he is currently pursuing a course in business studies from London -- said he made this portal as an engineering student at NIT Jalandhar, Punjab, when he felt the need to have information dedicated to Ambedkar "which would help Dalits engage and connect".
 
  Attri told TOI, "A few videos were created by my friends who know foreigners who support BSP and Behan Mayawati. Dalits are working outside India to raise their voice against caste discrimination, suppression and oppression in India.”
 
  Another 33-second video posted by an American shows a girl who does not name herself saying, “I believe in Ambedkar, I believe in human rights, in justice and in equality. So, I know that Dalit people are going through injustice and that is why my support goes to the Dalit icon Mayawati. I want every Dalit to support her and vote for her. Jai Bheem.” (sic.)
 
  In the video posted by the European, she says: “Hello, I am Sanya Peped. I am from Europe and the reason I am making this video today is because I myself am an independent woman. I studied business fashion and I support BSP leader Kumari Mayawati – also called by her other name, Iron Lady. I am making this video as I really believe in her ideas, in her theories about women and the oppressed. Post a video if you guys agree with me and all the best to her.”
