NEW   : Delhi government is exploring the possibility of bringing experts and mental health specialists on board to run the   Home complex for abandoned mentally challenged men, women and children. The home is currently run by officers and staff of the social welfare department. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia is learnt to have directed the chief secretary and the department of social welfare to submit a proposal on measures to improve the complex. 

 It is learnt that chief secretary MM Kutty has submitted a detailed report on the home’s functioning to the minister. Sisodia had inspected the premises after Delhi Commission for Women highlighted serious human rights violations there. TOI had earlier reported how the home had a capacity of 510 but housed over 950 inmates.
 
 It is learnt that Sisodia raised some critical concerns about its functioning. According to sources, the minister has sought complete CCTV footage for the past one year at the home. Sisodia has also taken cognizance of a report in TOI, which stated that a governing council of Asha Kiran was set up in 2011 with an external expert as chairperson on high court orders. However, shortly thereafter, the secretary, social welfare, was made its chairperson. Sisodia directed the department to provide details of why such a decision was taken in violation of court orders. 
 
 He asked the department to furnish details of the meetings of the governing council held so far. The minister also asked for details of children who have gone missing from the home. 
 
 Earlier this month, soon after DCW highlighted the pitiable condition of inmates at the home, chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal had sought to know the umber of times the social welfare secretary had visited the complex. It is learnt that the deputy CM’s office has been apprised by the secretary, social welfare, Dilraj Kaur, that she made just one visit to the home since September last year. Kaur reportedly stated that she had noted shortage of manpower and space at the complex and that “constant efforts” to bridge this gap were being made.
 
 
