METTUR: The sluices of   dam were opened on Monday after a delay of more than four months for delta cultivation. The water was released in the presence of electricity minister P Thangamani, higher education minister KP Anbalagan and environment minister K C Karuppannan around 9.30am. 

 Though it is set to be opened on June 12 every year, the dam had not been opened on that day in the past five years. After heavy rain in Karnataka, the water level in the dam increased and finally the sluices were opened. Soon after, 15,000 cusecs gushed out of the gates. Delta   are hoping to cultivate samba though they could not cultivate kuruvai.
 
 Initially, 2,000 cusecs of water was released from the dam. “It will be increased to 15,000 cusecs on Monday evening,” Thangamani said. He added that the quantum of water being released would be further increased in the coming days based on the requirement in the delta regions. 
 
 The minister also said 100mw of electricity is generated from the tunnel power house in the dam. Answering a question, Thangamani said the state government has been taking steps to push the central government on constitute the  . He also appealed to farmers to use the water wisely considering the depleting water level in the dam.
 
 “We have enough fertilizers and seeds in our stock. Farmers need not worry about them,” Thangamani said, adding that the government will take necessary step to issue crop loans to farmers through cooperative banks.
 
 Water level in the dam increased following heavy rain in the catchment areas of the Cauvery in the last two weeks. Water level in the reservoir crossed 90 feet a couple of days ago. 
 
 Expecting good rain in the coming days, chief minister   on September 28 ordered release of water from the Mettur dam to save crops in 16.04 lakh acres in the delta region.
 
 According to PWD officials, water from this reservoir is generally released when the storage is over 90 feet. At 9am on Monday, water level in the reservoir stood at 94.84 feet against its full capacity of 120 feet. The storage was around 58.35 tmc. The inflow into the reservoir was 13,928 cusecs. 
 
 General secretary of   Vivasayigal Sangam K Sundaram thanked the chief minister for releasing water from Mettur dam considering farmers plight. “This water will help delta farmers to cultivate samba crop,” he said. He hoped that northeast monsoon will support this year for better crop cultivation and harvest.
 
