NAGPUR: Exactly a year after she became the   in Raipur, city’s young chess queen   won the   at New Delhi.

 The eight-day international chess tournament in various age groups and in the open category concluded at the Capital on Monday. Delhi Chess Association, under the aegis of   ( ), organized the event.
 
 While city’s only Women Fide Master Divya emerged as the Numero Uno in her age category, a handful of Vidarbha masters too made their presence felt in the open section.
 
 The BVM, Civil Lines, student played simultaneously in the both the U-12 and open category. After dominating the show against rivals of her age in the morning session, Divya was seen taking on higher rated opponents from Commonwealth countries in the evening hours. Overall, Divya played 16 rounds in eight days.
 
 For winning the yellow metal in the Under-12 girls’ section, Divya remained unbeaten to dominate the show. Starting as the top seed, the 11 year and six months old Divya put up a consistent show and earned six wins and a draw to finish the seven-round event with 6.5 points.
 
 Similar to her maiden triumph in the U-11 nationals that she won last year in Raipur on July 10, Divya won her first Commonwealth Chess Championship crown with a round to go.
 
 Divya is a daughter of gynecologists Namrata and Jitendra Deshmukh and was a bit unwell during the tournament.
 
 In a chat with TOI she said, “I was not well and that affected my performance in the open category but I got a good learning experience playing against top rated masters. I am really happy with the result in the U-12 category. As of now I am feeling extremely tired and wish to go home and play with my elder sister Arya. From Wednesday, I will attend my school and want to spend most of my time with Arya.”
 
 In the 7th and final round, Divya took just a few hours to get the better of her statemate Khushi Choudki.
 
 On her way to the title, she prevailed over masters from Sri Lanka MH Mappa and Ashvini Pavalachandran respectively and was dominant against second seed Bhagyashree Patil, seed No. 5 Rajam Meenatchi from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh master N Sathwika.
 
 The only draw Divya had was with the black pieces against Women Chess Master and 4th seed Dhyana Patel in the third round.
 
 In the recently held national U-13 championship at Jalandhar, Punjab, Divya won the silver medal last week and qualified for the World U-14 Chess Championship scheduled at Greece next year.
 
 Divya is now being trained by Chennai-based Grandmaster (GM) RB Ramesh and she gives the credit of her success to school authorities including principal Anju Bhutani and parents.
 
 The other Vidarbha masters that did well in Delhi include only GM Swapnil Dhopade, 13-year-old Mrudul Dehankar and Narayani Adane.
 
 After leading the pack for most part of the tournament, Dhopade missed the podium finish by a whisker. With a stunning win over Bangladesh national champion Mrudul too had a satisfactory finish collecting five points.
 
 
