Taking a cue from mounting protests in   in support of Jallikattu, Shiv Sena’s Pune unit has restarted the agitation for lifting the ban on   in Maharashtra.

 Sena MP from Maval who led the agitation in Pune on Saturday has demanded that chief minister   intervene in the matter and seek a President’s ordinance to lift the ban. Animal activists in Pune, though, are up in arms against lifting of the ban, and have said that the sport was outlawed by the   in 2014. They have also decided to challenge the Jallikattu ordinance in the Supreme Court.
 
 Shirur MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil told TOI that bullock cart racing holds the same significance in Maharashtra as Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu. “The Supreme Court banned bullock cart races here in May 2014, and the same was initiated by the UPA-II. Since then, many farmers and I have been fighting in the SC against it,” he said.
 
 He added that Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis should take a cue from Tamil Nadu. “The CM should take the initiative and talk to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and request that the race be restarted in Maharashtra. The ordinance should come from nobody less than the President.”
 
 He said that the other way is amending the bill and getting it passed by both houses. “I have been raising the issue in the Parliament and now the   has started a full-blown agitation against it. It started on Saturday from Chakan and the party will organize morchas, public meetings and rallies. It has started in western Maharashtra and Pune, and will spread across the state,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Pune-based animal activists vehemently opposed the agitation to lift the ban on both Jallikattu and bullock cart racing. They said the the Tamil Nadu government decision to issue an ordinance to permit Jallikattu on the basis of public pressure is a complete mockery of the judicial system and will lead to anarchy.
 
 “We, as activists, approach the court for many reasons and so do crores of litigants. If orders of the courts are overturned by decisions of the majority, nothing will remain. I had first stopped bullock cart races in 1980 through the court of JMFC. In 2014, the Supreme Court banned both Jallikattu and bullock cart races in Maharashtra. If these races start again, there will be no voice for animals,” said Kalyan Gangwal, founder president of Sarvajeev Mangal Pratishthan.
 
 “I was the observer on behalf of Supreme Court in 2014 on the basis of which the judgment was passed. I am individually aggrieved by the order and will be moving the apex court in my individual capacity and not as the unit head of PFA Pune,” said Manoj Oswal, unit head of People for Animals Pune Unit.
 
