NAGPUR: The   celebrated Baisakhi, their new year with much fanfare in the city on Thursday. “On this day, we organise   path in Gurudwara, where Guru Gobind’s sthapna panth is read out,” said Kavlin Wadhwa, a homemaker. “The young generation needs to know about their guru. In the countryside, the New Year is marked with crop cutting.

 Shivanjali Mendiratta, a chartered accountant said, “On the occasion of Baisakhi, Punjabis usually wear yellow clothes and cook yellow rice. Bhangra is also performed to celebrate the festival but the festive zeal is seen more in the countryside.”
 
 As a part of the celebrations, in rural areas, people pray for healthy crop and good production. However, not much happens in the city,” she added.
 
 Not just Punjabis, but several communities who observe the solar calendar will also be marking their new year on Friday. Odias, Keralites and Tamils will also mark their new year on Friday. Coincidentally, the day will also be observed as   for the Christian community. Adding to the string of auspicious days, April15 will mark the start of Bengali New Year. The festive atmosphere will culminate with Easter on Sunday.
 
 “Good Friday is the day when Jesus was crucified which we observe by fasting,” said Dintis Thomas, a member of   and a resident of Narendra Nagar. The cross will be taken to 14 stations across the city as part of a rally from Grotto near Seminary Hills on Friday. “Entire meal for each us for the day is just a spoon of bitter juice, rice and water. In the evening, a mass will be organised,” said Thomas.
 
 Vishu, the New Year for Keralite, is celebrated by decorating lord Krishna’s idol a night before the new year. Fruits and vegetables along with a mirror are also kept near the idol. “This ritual is performed by eldest person in the house,” said Ravi Nair, a software engineer and a resident of Besa.
 
 “We also put a diya, coconut, jackfruit and drumsticks. In the morning of the New Year, the eldest member then calls everyone blindfolded and makes them see the mirror. Money is also given to all the younger ones in the household. At the temple, the priest gives a coin to all the devotees,” he added.
 
 Tamils celebrate Puthandu just like they celebrate Pongal, said Mohan Chandran, a resident of Ram Nagar. “We wear new clothes and make sweets such as kheer and rice dishes. At the temple, the pandit tells us what to expect in the New Year such as the position of the stars and the rain,” Chandran said.
 
 We work through the year accordingly. Puja is performed and prasad is distributed,” Chandran said, adding the relatives also visit each other’s place to mark the occasion.
 
 Artabandhu Behera, who lives in Dabha, will be celebrating Odia New Year typically called as ‘Pana sankranti.’ “On this day, we make a sherbet made of sugar, lemon, Indian bael, milk, curd, fruits and coconut. We will offer it to all our guests. The Jagannath temple will also offer this sherbet to the devotees. This is our way to beat the heat. Besides, our food will have preparations of rice and kheer.
 
 Bomkesh Dutta, who runs a catering business and resides in Borgaon, said his club named Rooprang has Bengali people as members. Hence, we organize a cultural festival every year near Durga mandir at Katol road. We sing, dance and have non-vegetarian dishes, especially fish, and sweet dishes such as kheer to celebrate the day. “We performed Neel Puja to worship Shiva on Thursday. We also invite friends and relatives over for food to celebrate the start of the year,” he said.
 
 Festivities galore
 
 April 13 — Punjabi new year, Baisakhi
 
 April 14 — Christians observe Good Friday
 
 April 14 — Odia New Year, called Pana Sankranti
 
 April 14 — Vishu, Keralite New Year
 
 April 14 — Puthandu, Tamil New Year
 
 April 15 — Bengali New Year
 
