MUMBAI: The state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has begun a probe after 27 pilgrims from   disappeared in Jeddah. Their south Mumbai tour operator approached the ATS last week, stating that the group did not reach their hotel in Jeddah.

 Sources in the security establishment said that the agent himself approached the ATS and told the officers that the pilgrims obtained a 45-day Umrah visa through him. Their passports were issued from Bhubaneswar.
 
 “The Mumbai agent told us that he received a call from the Kolkata agent saying the pilgrims had not reached the hotel even three days after re aching  ,“ said a police source. No FIR has been registered yet.
 
 Mumbai travel agents generally help their counterparts in other cities across the country to obtain visas on a commission basis.
 
 “We had asked the Dongribased agent to give a complaint to the Mumbai police as well about the missing 27 people. He has not come back after that,“ added an officer. Another officer said that the travel agent panicked since one person who had gone to   through his agency had also gone missing in the past. “This time he was alert and informed the police on his own. When we asked him whether he spoke to the Kolkata agent, he said that he tried to contact the latter but failed,“ said the officer.
 
 He added that sometimes those who go to Saudi Arabia also stay with their friends and relatives. “However, in this case they did not even reach the hotel and that raises the question where did they go to?“ he added.
 
 Police are exploring all possibilities, including the group genuinely going missing or taking up jobs.
 
 This incident comes days after two youths, who went to Baghdad ostensibly for a pilgrimage, went missing from there. The duo, also from West Bengal, was part of a group of people who travelled from Mumbai. The ATS is probing their case too and a senior officer said they were in touch with the central government.
 
 A similar case of people going missing was registered in 2014 after four Kalyan youths disappeared on reaching Iraq. They allegedly joined the proscribed outfit,   (IS). One of them,  , returned to India in November 2014 and was arrested. He is currently in jail.
 
