New Delhi: On May 6, an under-construction five-storey building in Inderpuri tilted and came to rest on a neighbouring house. Fortunately, nobody suffered any serious injury in this incident. Nearly 30 families living nearby vacated their buildings and shifted with their relatives. However, things could be quite different next time. 

 This episode is a stark reminder of the 2010   Park building collapse, which claimed 71 lives. Seven years later, many structures in this east Delhi locality continue to be on   ground. Barely 10 meters from the spot where a portion of the debris of the crumbled structure is still visible stands another four-storey rickety building. Ironically, it is owned by Amrit Singh, who was arrested in connection with the 2010 incident.
 
 In the aftermath of the tragedy, the then Congress government had constituted an inquiry commission headed by retired justice Lokeshwar Prasad. It prepared a report based on a survey of 10,000 buildings in east Delhi, which revealed that most of them were unsafe.
 
 The report also blamed poor quality of construction, unauthorised and haphazard changes in the buildings, which disregarded the load carrying capability of the buildings. “I take a longer route to go to market but I do not use the alley next to this building because it might cave in any day,” said Ashu Sharma, a chartered accountant, whose house is located next to the collapsed building. 
 
 In 2010, the erstwhile MCD had sealed the building owned by Amrit Singh after its occupants were asked to vacate it. “Some time later, the seal was found to be broken and people started living in it,” said one of the tenants. 
 
 Singh does not stay in this house. “Most of the tenants are poor migrant families, who work as domestic helps or daily wage labourers,” Ravindra Srivastava, a roadside vendor, who too lives in the house built in 1990.
 
 The owner, however, seemed least concerned about the structural safety of his house. “Rats have damaged the ground floor. Otherwise, the building is fine,” he told TOI. He claimed that the seal was broken following a court order.
 
 Lalita Park RWA secretary Sushil Kumar said of the 4,000-odd buildings in the locality, 2,000 have   constructions in the form of additional floors being added to the main structures. “No one bothers to follow structural safety norms. Here, houses are constructed very fast because the owners want to rent them out quickly. Most owners seem to ignore the building guidelines,” he said. 
 
 Sant Ram Chaurashia, who got his four-storey house constructed recently, is a case in point. Neither did he get his building plan approved nor he hired any structural engineer. Like other owners, he also claimed that his house was very strong.
 
 RWA president Shakil Saifi said after the 2010 incident, the residents’ association had carried out an awareness campaign on building norms. However, many people turned a blind eye to these vital aspects and got their houses built quickly, he alleged. “The lure of the money is the real problem,” said Saifi.
 
 Located close to Yamuna, this colony stands on sandy soil. A majority of the residents are poor and they allegedly use sub-standard construction material to save costs. Things become dangerous once the monsoon arrives. Seepage on walls and roofs is a common problem, so are waterlogging woes in narrow bylanes. An IIT-Delhi committee had attributed these reasons to the 2010 collapse.
 
 It is alleged that east corporation has not done enough to check illegal constructions. Every building built on a plot, which is more than 32 yards, needs EDMC approval, but 80% of houses are constructed illegally. According to EDMC, only “ground plus one” is allowed on plots, which are less than 32 yards, but most buildings have more than three floors.
 
 Additional commissioner (building) Vivek Pandey said an inspection would be carried out across east Delhi before the arrival of monsoon. “We regularly seal buildings, which are found to be weak. People should file complaints if they see any such buildings in their neighbourhood,” he said.
 
 
