Visakhapatnam: The AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has planned to roll out surveillance camera-enabled buses in a phased manner to ensure safe travel for passengers besides preventing road mishaps.

 The move came following guidelines issued by the union urban development ministry in June 2013 to ensure safe travel in public transport across the country. The management of APSRTC Vizianagaram Zone has been asked to work on the project on a priority basis and cover long-route buses in the first phase by next few months.
 
 Subsequently, the zonal management has issued circulars to the heads of all 28 bus depots in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari to keep the long-distance services ready for installation of the surveillance system.
 
 According to APSRTC officials, the zone has 52 AC buses, 1,100 sleeper class and 600 deluxe buses, besides 1,600 ordinary buses. In the first phase, APSRTC-Vizianagaram zone management will install CCTVs in the AC and select sleeper class buses which go to Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Amaravati, Tirupati and Rajahmundry from Vizag.
 
 Officials estimate the cost of installing the CCTV system in each bus to Rs 6,000. A minimum of two to three surveillance cameras would be installed in each bus. One camera will be installed near the driver’s seat and the other in the middle to record passenger movement and the third one outside the bus. An in-built computer system too will be installed to store all footages which can be retrieved and monitored if needed by the APSRTC and other law enforcement agencies like the police and Road Transport Authority (RTA). Speaking to TOI, K Srinivasa Rao, Srikakulam division chief traffic manager, said, “The project will be helpful to passengers as well as APSRTC in preventing road accidents and ensuring safety of the passengers. It is still under process and will be rolled out soon.”
 
 Rao further said that they have selected some routes like Ichchapuram to Visakhapatnam via Palasa, Srikakulam to Battili to install the CCTV cameras.
 
 
