Gurgaon: Police claimed to have arrested three more members of what they call the Bawaria “gang” on Saturday night from an area close to Uppal farmhouse in Bilaspur.

  An unlicensed pistol and 11 live rounds of bullets were seized from them. According to police, they laid a trap after they received a tip-off that members of the “Bawaria gang” would be in the city to execute a crime.
 
 The trio have been identified as Dharambir alias Kalia, a resident of Dharuhera in Rewari, Banti Pawa alias Lamba, a resident of Sohna road, also in Dharuhera and Ajay, from Delawas in Jhuj Jhunu, Rajasthan.
 
 Sub inspector Surender Singh, who is heading the crime unit in Bilaspar, said a special team was formed to nab the criminals. The three members of the gang were found sitting inside an auto-rickshaw during the time of arrest.
 
 Police claimed that when the trio was questioned, they could not come up with a reasonable explanation of what they were doing there. Following this, a physical search was carried out on them, in which the police recovered the arms. A case under sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered against them for carrying   arms, at the Bilaspur police station on Saturday.
 
 Police said the three were living in Dharuhera, adjoining south Gurgaon, located in Rewari district and have several cases registered against them for chain and wallet snatching. The investigators also informed that they were lodged in Bhondsi jail till recently, and were released around two months back.
 
 The trio were produced before a duty magistrate on Sunday morning, and were sent on a two-day police remand.
 
 Earlier this month, on July 13, another member of the   was arrested in Bilaspur. He was wanted in cases of robbery and murder in the national capital region. The accused, Sunil alias Sahab, was living in Jhajar and as of now no link has been established between him and the recent arrests police had made.
 
 Bawarias are nomadic tribes, who are known to change their locations among different cities. They are among the 200 de-notified tribes, which were earlier classified by the British government as “criminal tribes”, but were later de-notified it post independence. 
 
 
