CHENNAI: The new government is set to effect a major shake-up in the bureaucracy. The possible changes at the top are replacement of chief secretary Girija   with finance secretary K Shanmugam and appointment of Niranjan Mardi as secretary one to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.

 Shanmugam is lobbying for the CS post through former officer on special duty A Panneerselvam, a close confidante of V K Sasikala’s husband M Natarajan. The thinking in the AIADMK leadership is that Vaidyanathan could put spanner in the works while pushing many key files and a more amiable person is required for the smooth functioning of the government. Shanmugam was in the race for the CS post earlier too, when former CS P   was removed from the post following I-T raids on his premises. But O Panneerselvam, who was CM then, chose to go by seniority and appointed Vaidyanathan.
 
 A major reshuffle is long overdue in the bureaucracy as many officials have been continuing in the same post for several years, some even for more than five years. Shanmugam, for instance, has been holding the finance portfolio right from the DMK period.
 
 Mardi, a 1986-batch IAS officer, is known well to Palaniswami as he was his secretary in the highways department for a long time. He was subsequently appointed home secretary, but was removed from the post within seven months in 2013 and put in charge of economics and statistics department. After a long gap, he was spotted in the officials’ circles during the swearing-in ceremony of Palaniswami on Thursday. He and Shanmugam were the first few to greet the CM, when Palaniswami assumed office on Monday.
 
 School education secretary D Sabitha is likely to get industries portfolio and Hansraj Varma municipal administration department. Sabitha has been holding the school education portfolio ever since Jayalalithaa formed the government in 2011. Moreover, K A Sengottaiyan, the new school education minister, has his own choice for the secretary post. Also on the cards is a new chairman and managing director for the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. Highways secretary   could be the new finance secretary.
 
 Changes are in the offing in the IPS as well. Chennai city police commissioner S George may be considered for the post of DGP and head of police force. 
 
