GURUGRAM: At a meeting between Bandhwari villagers and environmentalists on Friday, the former decided to meet the   and demand the   (WTP) be relocated from the ecologically sensitive  .

 Bandhwari resident Mangar Tanwar said, “We’re going to meet both the chief minister and the MCG commissioner to demand immediate removal of the WTP from Bandhwari. It’s a constant source of stench, diseases and  .”
 
 Villagers also said they are going to invite government officials to live in their villages. “Gurgaon and Faridabad sends tonnes of waste to our forest. We conserved it for hundreds of years, but authorities have now ruined it. Meanwhile, the plant is lying defunct for four years,” said another villager, requesting anonymity. Situated over 32 acres, the plant has been collecting over 1,100 tonnes of waste as landfill from Gurgaon and Faridabad every day, since it stopped working in 2013. The authorities have recently allotted a tender to operate a waste-to-energy plant at the site.
 
 Some villagers were unhappy with the Chinese waste-to-energy plant planned to be installed by MCG at Bandhwari. “Authorities are destroying our children’s future, as the plant will cause a lot of air pollution. Health of our future generation is at stake. Why do authorities want to conduct such experiments in our villages?” asked Dhanush, another villager.
 
 Activists assured all support to the villagers. “The villagers are agitated, especially with it being monsoons when living conditions become terrible, and the air has a putrid stench with just a few days of rain. Even those of us who live 2km away, get the foul smell all the time during monsoons,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist and resident of Valley View society along   road.
 
 Vivek Kamboj of environmental  , who attended the meeting, said, “It’s criminal to set up the WTP in the eco-sensitive Aravalis. Their groundwater is becoming polluted, putting the future of their next generation at stake.” Kamboj also filed a case in NGT, alleging that leachate from the defunct WTP is polluting groundwater. 
 
 
