THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   will meet Prime Minister   to discuss the steep hike brought about in ticket rates by airline companies, especially during festival seasons. 

 Addressing a conference of MPs representing  , organised here on Thursday as a prelude to raising the demands of the state in the monsoon session of Parliament beginning on July 17, the chief minister said that the assurance given by the Union civil aviation secretary in this regard has turned out to be hollow. 
 
 The union civil aviation secretary had assured that airlines would be given permission to increase the number of seats during festival seasons, when he had attended a meeting of airline companies organized here on May 15.
 
 The chief minister said that he will meet the prime minister over the matter in August as the issue stands unresolved and the airline companies increased fares steeply during the Ramzan.
 
 On the trend of traders hiking prices of commodities following the implementation of GST, the chief minister said the MPs should bring the issue to the attention of the Centre and ensure that the interests of consumers are protected. He said the Centre should come forward to set up bodies to examine and contain this trend and publish pre-GST and post-GST rate cards. He said that the   rate for non-AC restaurants which at present is 12%, should be reduced, and the GST rates of traditional ayurveda medicines, which at present is 12%, should be reduced to 5%. The chief minister also asked the MPs to persuade the Centre to reduce the GST rate for houseboat tariffs as it will adversely affect the state's tourism sector.
 
 Vijayan also drew the attention of the MPs to the Centre's decision either to privatize or close down the central PSUs in the state, including the Hindustan Newsprints Ltd, Hindustan Organic Chemicals Ltd and HLL Lifecare. He said that any move against these PSUs will be strongly opposed. He also sought the intervention of members of Parliament in getting Rs 733 crore sanctioned for the state which is the pending arrears under MNREG scheme.
 
