Namakkal: The residents of Narasimhar Sannathi Street here on Tuesday urged the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) to remove barricaded enclosures placed in front of the Anjaneyar temple and Narasimhar temple, saying the structures were obstructing the way to their houses and as such they can’t drive home their vehicles.

 The HR&CE department officials attached to the world-famous cave temple Narasimhar in Namakkal town had recently placed in front of it about 20 barricaded enclosures at a cost of Rs 3.2 lakh to provide a respite to the devotees from the scorching sun.
 
 “Often, there will be serpentine queue for the darshan of the deity. These barricaded enclosures are really a blessing,” said P Masilamani, a devotee.
 
 However, the move hasn’t gone down well with the residents in vicinity. Initially, the HR&CE officials had taken the local residents into confidence that the barricaded enclosures would be removed a day after the temple festival.
 
 “But, they have not removed the structures from the street so far,” said T K Senthil Raja, manager, Mullai Mahal marriage hall, which functions near the temple. “Our customers usually bring their vehicles. Now, they are forced to park the vehicles far away from the marriage hall,” he rued.
 
 H Gururajan, a local resident, had a really bad experience. When his mother suddenly fell ill a few weeks ago, the ambulance driver refused to come inside the Narasimhar Sannathi Street citing barricaded enclosures as a reason. “I had to carry my mother on my shoulders. Even autorickshaws are hesitant to enter inside the street,” he added.
 
 M Kanagaraj, state general secretary of Makkal Pathukappu Maiyam, meanwhile said the HR&CE officials had informed them that the structures would be used only in summer. “They are using the barricaded enclosures even after the onset of monsoon,” he said.
 
 The residents also alleged that the HR&CE officials have completely blocked the roads on Narasimhar Sannathi Street by erecting shed for workers, who are repairing the temple cars.
 
 “Due to the shed and barricaded enclosures, we have been facing a lot of problems. Officials are yet to take any step to address our issues,” the residents lamented.
 
 When TOI contacted, the assistant commissioner of Narasimhar temple, P Ramesh, promised to look into the issue at the earliest. “Our plan was to remove the structures a day after the festival. We have changed the plan after devotees appreciated the move,” he said.
 
 
