Former Indian cricket captain and commentator   is literally living out of his suitcase. Thanks to the ongoing T20 league, the 67-year-old Padma Bhushan awardee has hardly any time to indulge in anything else. “This time of the year for cricket commentators is like being on Bharat bhraman. Catching flights is what I am doing these days,” says the ‘Little Master’ who was in the city when Team Hyderabad took on Team Pune on Saturday. Lunching at his friend, Chamundeswarnath’s residence before the match, the former opening batsman spoke to Hyderabad Times about why the IPL is an ideal scouting ground for new talent, reasons behind Team Hyderabad’s consistency on the field and why he loves Mumbai Indians come what may. And the legendary batsman answered all our queries with a straight bat, talking straight from the heart. Excerpts: 

 
 
 The adage “talent meets opportunity” best sums up the essence of the T20 revolution that has played out in the country over the last 10 years. We have seen many talented players, both Indian and foreign, coming to the fore over the years. For example, a few years back it was   from South Africa and this season, young Indian players like Sanju Samson,   and   have shot into the spotlight with some amazing performances. It’s good to see them doing well and hopefully they will be consistent.
 
 
 
 I wouldn’t like to think that far down the line as there is difference between the three formats of the game. But with so many promising players coming out I think the selectors will be enjoying it. It’s always good to have a problem of plenty than a headache of none.
 
 
 
 Yes! I think it’s because there is cohesion among players in the team. So many different players have come together from different cricketing cultures and they have developed an understanding and respect among themselves, which is why they won the trophy last year. And this season it’s as if they have started from where they had left last year.
 
 
 
 (Smiles) Actually, it doesn’t really matter which team you support; at end of the day it’s India which will win. But having said that I would love to see Mumbai win as I am from Mumbai, but there is hardly any Mumbaiker in the team apart from Rohit (Sharma). But at the same time, I felt the pangs when Mumbai lost the Ranji Trophy final to Gujarat.
 
 
 For me Indian cricket in the recent times has had three main centres — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and West Bengal. These three states have so much potential but I am surprised why they haven’t produced any greats in Indian cricket. But I hope they will; especially about Gujarat after their Ranji Trophy triumph. Actually, a lot has changed from the earlier times when, unlike today, the sport was not considered a career option. But today, parents are pushing their children to pick up the bat or the ball when they see even a little spark. And it’s a good thing.
 
