HYDERABAD: The   turned into a battleground on the first death anniversary of Dalit research scholar   on Tuesday. Hundreds of students from varsities across the country landed in front of UoH to express solidarity with the `Justice for Rohith Vemula' movement, while UoH students tore their way through heavy police security, marching out of the main gate. “VC Appa Rao Go Back“, “Rohith ko Neel Salam“, “Modi down down“ slogans rent the air.

 Rohith's mother Radhika and younger brother Raja, who had come from Guntur, were not allowed to enter the varsity to visit Rohith stupa. They were both detained and released later, even as a group of 35 students continued with the agitation outside. Nineteen others, including 3 UoH students, were also detained and released later in the evening. A magazine journalist was also booked after a complaint by UoH for `criminal trespass'. A part from Rohith's friends and family, the mammoth congregation at UoH campus on Tuesday comprised Dalit victims from Dadri and Una and JNU students. While they were initially stopped from entering campus at the main road leading to the university , cops later allowed them to join the rest of the agitators inside.
 
 A teary-eyed Radhika Vemula, Rohith's mother, said, “I just want to hug my son's stupa and pay him a tribute. I am not a terrorist or a goon who would hurt anyone. Why is the UoH administration afraid of allowing me inside? How can I harm them now, if I haven't done anything against these people when they killed my son?“  , brother of  , who was lynched by a mob in Dadri in 2015 for allegedly storing beef in his house, asked Dalits and Muslims to fight the “Hindu“ government. “What UoH students are doing now is not `hungama'. This is the need of the hour,“ Saifi said.
 
 Jeetu Sarvaiya, the only college-going dalit from village Mota Samadhiyala who gave victims of Una attack courage to fight, said Radhika might have lost one son, but has gained lakhs. “Rohith is alive in our hearts and we will fight for him and other Dalits till our last breath,“ he said.
 
 Despite brief turmoil on campus, students went ahead with `Shahadath Din' programme with photos of the late scholar being garlanded. In a statement late Tuesday , the UoH said all academic activity went on without interruption.
 
 700 guards at UoH to keep students at bay
 
 Nearly 300 personnel of the Cyberabad police force and 400 members of private security agencies were found monitoring the situation around the University of Hyderabad campus on Tuesday. University authorities installed CCTV cameras inside the campus.Sources said UoH officials had not got permission for deploying additional security within the campus.
 
