A day after Mirror reported about the arrest of a Kashmiri girl,  , and her friend   — allegedly after they hurled abuses at the police and even assaulted one when asked not to loiter in the   area on Saturday night — it turns out that the girl had been manhandled by the cops on the night of the incident.

 According to Shaikh, it was not her fault at all. All she was trying to do was to have a conversation with the cops and has no idea how it escalated to this level. She claimed that even when the cops beat up Dandriyal, dragged her by the hair and scratched her, she didn’t touch any of them even once except to defend herself — let alone trying to snatch the revolver of the lady cop as the latter has alleged.
 
 “The cops saw me come out of my hostel. They were standing there, asking everyone to leave. They said something to me in Marathi and, when I told them that I do not understand the language, they asked me to go and learn Marathi. They raised questions about my character and for no apparent reason started shouting at me,” she recalled on Wednesday. She had a feeling that things might get out of hand. So, Shaikh took out her phone to record the treatment that the cops were handing out to her. That is when they almost attacked her, she claimed. Finally, when her friend and she decided to just turn away and leave, the cops asked them to wait, saying their seniors were coming and that they needed to meet them.
 
 Shaikh moved to Pune about two years ago and is studying BBA at Sarhad Insitute. She lives at a private hostel in Chaitanya Nagar, behind Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital. On Saturday night, she had just come down to give Dandriyal her laptop and projects so he could finish his. “Even when the senior officials came, it was no different for us. Rather than talking to us properly, they started beating us instead. The one woman constable who came along with them tried to snatch my phone, scratching me several times. Then we were taken to the Dhankawadi police chowky,” she added.
 
 At the chowky, the two of them were made to sit for hours before anyone even spoke to them. They asked them basic questions regarding their name, address and what their parents do. Here too, the cops tried to snatch her phone from her till a point where she was rolling on the floor, trying to protect herself and her phone. Shaikh claims that the cops deleted the two videos that she had of the police beating them up, which was her only proof.
 
 “I did not come to Pune to fight or get into any sort of trouble. I want to study and even have a day-time job so that I can help out with the finances at home. I could not imagine that all of this was happening to me. The cops are supposed to protect us. I felt like I was dealing with goons when at the police station. I have no family here and it is difficult to manage on your own. The cops have also probably gone and warned or spoken ill about me at my hostel. The hostel owner has asked me to vacate the room. I have somehow managed to convince her to let me stay for a month, till I am done with my exams. And, all of this, for no fault of mine,” she rued.
 
 When Mirror contacted deputy commissioner of police (Zone 2) Prashant Dahane, he said, “When I met the girl on Sunday, she did not say anything about the cops beating her up. However, she has met with the commissioner and discussed the issue. An independent inquiry has been set up.” Sanjay Nahar, founder and director of Sarhad Institutes, asserted, “We told the cops right from the beginning that if Shaikh was at fault, she should be punished. But, in this case, she isn’t and so obviously everything that is happening to her is not fair. We will stand up and support her in every possible way.”
 
 
 ¦ “We told the cops right from the beginning that if Shaikh was at fault, she should be punished. But, in this case, she isn’t and so obviously everything that is happening to her is not fair. We will stand up and support her in every possible way
 
 — Sanjay Nahar, director, Sarhad Institutes
 
