MUMBAI: The wife of a police officer, who was part of the  , was found murdered in her flat in   (east) early on Wednesday. The body of Deepali Ganore (42), with the throat slit, was discovered by her husband, inspector Dnyaneshwar Ganore (49), around 3am. The couple’s only son, Siddhanth (21), is the prime suspect, the police said, adding that the cause of friction between the mother and son was that she had stopped his pocket money due to his poor academic performance.

 The body of Deepali, a homemaker, was found in the bedroom of their third-floor flat, with four or five stab injuries and blood splattered around. Scrawled in blood beside the body were the words: ‘Tired of her, catch me & hang me’, in English. A smiley emoticon was drawn at the end. An officer from Vakola police station said that a knife has been recovered from the spot. Dnyaneshwar called up the police control room around 3.30am.
 
 The body was found a few hours after Dnyaneshwar reached the 11-storey AG Park Cooperative Housing Society, in Vakola around 11pm on Tuesday. 
 
 He was supposed to catch a late-night movie with his wife and son. “Since no one opened the door, I assumed that my wife and son had stepped out. I waited downstairs, all along trying repeatedly to call them, but their phones were switched off,” Dnyaneshwar has said in his police complaint. “Sensing something wrong, I went upstairs and started looking for a spare key outside the flat. I found one lying on the shoe rack.” The police said it is not clear whether it was a common practice for the family members to tuck away a spare key on the rack.
 
 The police said that Deepali had stopped giving Siddhanth pocket money due to his “poor” academic grades. “Siddhanth had dropped out of an engineering course and was currently pursuing his first-year bachelor of science degree from a suburban college,” an investigator said on the condition of anonymity. “His friends say that he had been keeping aloof for the last two months, and was also avoiding social media platforms.”
 
 The officer said that they have asked for footage from the closed-circuit television installed on the building premises. “The prime suspect is the couple’s son. He has been missing and his cellphone is switched off,” said the officer, adding that another relative could possibly have helped the son.
 
 Spokesperson of   deputy commissioner   confirmed the incident. A case of murder has been registered against an unidentified person.
 
 After a post-mortem was conducted, Dnyaneshwar left for the family’s ancestral home in Nashik to perform the final rites. Residents of the building where the Ganores reside refused to comment. 
 
 
 
