NEW DELHI: More than eight out of 10 drivers feel pedestrians talking over   while crossing roads are at risk and can cause crashes, according to a study conducted on distracted driving across eight cities in India. 

 Findings released by SaveLife Foundation show that at least 50% of the motorcyclists, car drivers and three-wheeler drivers feel that such behaviour of pedestrians can cause crashes “at all the times“.
 
 While the number of pedestrian crashes and fatalities on roads and rail tracks in India in recent years has brought the issue into focus, a study published in 2012 by researchers from   had found that people texting while walking were 60% more likely to move unpredictably. It had also found that talking on a cell phone or texting while walking could be dangerous and result in 'walking errors' and interfere with memory recall. Scientists call the phenomenon " ," saying the average human brain has evolved to only be able to adequately focus attention on one task at a time.
 
 Interestingly, when nearly 1,700 drivers across cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Kolkata and Jaipur were asked how they perceive the risk of road crash as a pedestrian walks talking on the mobile phone, about 70% of them felt "it's not at all safe and life threatening".
 
 "It's generally perceived that it is harmless as a pedestrian to use mobile phone while walking on road. On our roads, which are unsafe, pedestrians also need to take care and find a safe location and then use their mobile phone," Saji Cherian, director (operations) of SaveLife Foundation said.
 
 According to the  , which has recognized using mobile phone while driving as a major risk factor, drivers on phone are approximately four times more likely to be involved in a crash than a driver who is not using one.
 
 “This risk appears to be similar for both hand-held and hands-free phones, because it is the cognitive distraction that is an issue, not only the physical distraction associated with holding the phone. Text messaging appears to have an even more severe impact on driving behaviour and crash risk,“ a World Health Organisation paper said.
 
