PUNE:   dealers have decided not to remain shut on Sundays and adopt 9am-6pm working hours on other days of the week after the state government said it would invoke MESMA if they went ahead with the agitation.

 The Federation of All Maharashtra Petroleum Dealers Association ( FAMPEDA) on Saturday deferred the agitation following a communication from the state about invoking the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA) if they were adamant on the “cost cutting measures”. 
 
 With this, operation at all 568 petrol outlets across Pune district will be smooth on Sundays and weekdays. The federation had earlier threatened the authorities with weekly offs on Sundays and single-shift operations at the petrol pumps from May 14-15.
 
 The agitation spearheaded by the   ( )- FAMPEDA was a bid to build pressure on the government to meet the long-pending demands of the petrol dealers, including hike in their commissions, across the country.
 
 “The dealers supporting the CIPD-FAMPEDA’s call for the agitation have been receiving various notices from the government. A meeting of all oil companies and CIPD has been convened in Mumbai on May 17 for discussions and reviewing the progress of the November 4, 2016 agreement. Considering all this, we have decided to postpone our ‘cost cutting module’ till further notice,” FAMPEDA president Uday Lodh said.
 
 Other sources from FAMPEDA said the state government on Saturday sent a notice to the federation, saying it would invoke MESMA if the dealers went ahead with their plan to keep the petrol pumps shut on Sundays and resort to single shifts on weekdays. 
 
 “We had to withdraw the agitation. We are seeking legal option to see if the   committee report can be implemented soon and if MESMA allows scope for our campaigning on the issue,” a source said.
 
 Ali Daruwalla, a spokesperson of the   (AIPDA), said the group had earlier advised FAMPEDA to refrain from any protest as “commission hike is not a state subject, but a national issue to be taken care of at the Centre”.
 
 “Under the chairmanship of Ajay Bansal, the AIPDA is already in touch with the ministry of petroleum. The joint secretary of the ministry, Ashutosh Jindal, on Saturday directed the oil industry representatives to resolve the problems as agreed in the November 4 pact within a month,” he said.
 
 “He also assured the AIPDA executive committee that the problems, which will not be resolved by the oil industry, will be taken up by him for resolution.” Daruwalla added.
 
 The petrol pumps in Pune district observed May 10 as “no purchase day“ in protest against the increasing overhead costs and the government's delay in hiking the commissions of petrol dealers. The protest was against the government's partial implementation of the 2012 Apurva Chandra committee recommendations. The dealers said the decision to keep a single 9am-6pm shift will help them save on manpower costs and electricity charges as interim measures till the assignment of new dealer margins. 
 
