Skinning trees of their barks to feel the wood within, carving your name on the layer and watching it age gracefully – these are memories from childhood that many could connect with. 

 For Thiruvananthapuram-based artist  , the fascination with the intricate, unique patterns and texture of the barks and their role in protecting a tree carried into her adulthood as well. 
 
 When she contemplated on doing something unique in the world of art, her thoughts harked back to the barks. “Why not use their texture and designs in paintings? I began thinking,” recalls Reshma, who is currently working in  .
 
 The realisation of her little dream took shape in the form of a   show titled The Secret  , which she recently held in Kochi. The collection of 40 paintings, according to Reshma, showcases transformations of various kinds. It is also a reminder of art’s connection with nature and an attempt to tell people about conservation and recycling, she says. 
 
 “When we use the dead part of a tree for art, we aren’t hurting nature. Making the best use of something natural is, in fact, beautiful and artistic. The duty of the bark is equally inspiring as regardless of the weather, it protects the tree,” says the self-taught artist. 
 
 When she started out almost a year ago, the idea and the raw material didn’t pay quick dividends to Reshma. “I don’t take the barks out of a living tree. I depend on saw mills for the tree barks, mostly of mahogany and wild jack fruit (aanjili). Initially, I couldn’t get them to stick on to the canvas. Making them moisture-free, termite resistant and odour-free called for many layers of treatment and that was also a challenge,” she says.
 
 While bark painting is one of the oldest streams of art, used by Australian aboriginals, Reshma says she found it tough to get any modern day references on how to treat the wood for painting purposes. “It took almost six months to just figure it all out on my own,” she says. 
 
 The artist says she even sought help from experts, but all they could tell her was how wood can be preserved but not its bark, specifically. Finally, Reshma found what suited her requirement, through a few trial and error methods. 
 
 She stuck the treated, flattened bark on canvas using wood paste and then proceeded with the   painting. “It took almost twice or thrice the time to get a bark painting done compared to normal ones. At times, the smell of the treating agents gave me headaches and even slight rashes. But, the love for this art was greater to consider it as hindrance.”
 
 In nine to 10 months, she could do her set of 40 paintings, depicting the theme of transformation. “A tree would have seen umpteen generations and each of the age rings mirror the environment and other issues,” she adds. 
 
 At her debut show in Kochi, people were apparently most interested to learn how she transformed the barks into textures of her works. “I guess I was constantly telling people how I went about it, the inspiration behind it and it didn’t tire me one bit.” 
 
 Reshma, who is constantly on the lookout to innovate through the world of colours, says she wants to bring out a coffee table book about her work, next. “I want to feature all my paintings so far, and I hope I am able to give some positive messages of conservation through art too, through it,” she signs off.
 
