PATIALA: Confusion prevails over admissions of the girl students to the state run colleges and universities in the current session following the Punjab government's June 19 announcement on provision of   to girls from nursery to PhD in the educational institutions run by the state.

 The issue complicates further not only because the state assembly hasn't passed the bill yet but also for the fact that these institutions are already facing severe financial problems.Further, no notification on the matter has been issued to the institutions thus far.
 
 There are six state-run universities in Punjab--Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Amritsar, Punjabi University, Patiala, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda, I K Gujral PTU, Kapurthala and   (PAU), Ludhiana.
 
 There are 275 colleges affiliated to Punjabi University, and in most of these institutions, girls outnumber bo ys.
 
 Similarly, there are three government medical colleges in Punjab at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot.There are around 200 seats in medical colleges of Patiala and Amritsar while in Faridkot medical college there around 100 seats where girls account for 60% of the student strength. The fee per student in each government medical college is around Rs 1.1 lakh per annum.
 
 “The government announced that girls will be given free education but the reality is different. Girl students are paying fees for seats.
 
 There is no assurance by the authorities whether the fee will be returned if the government's announcement is implemented later,“ said Ramanita Sharda, as sociate professor and a mother of two daughters who study in a government institution.
 
 When contacted, the principal secretary (higher education) S K Sandhu, who is also the officiating vicechancellor of Punjabi University, said, “The announcement was made but it has not been implemented because it is yet to be passed in the state assembly.“
 
 Punjabi varsity dean (academics) Professor Inderjit Singh said, “No notification in this regard has been sent to us. Hence we cannot allow girl students to take admission without paying fees.
 
 The university earns around 70% revenue from girl students who have outnumbered boys in the last few years. In such cases, the government will have to pay grants to waive off or return the fee to the students.“
 
 Patiala Government Medical College vice-principal   said over 60% seats were filled by girls in the college.
 
 College principal Dr Anita Gupta said they hadn't received any notification on providing free education to girl students yet.
 
 Punjab Agricultural University registrar   said, “We are waiting for the notification to reach us.We will follow all instructions regarding the matter.Girls account of 52% of student numbers at PAU and its affiliated colleges.“ The state government's scheme to provide free   has received appreciation from all quarters
 
