LUCKNOW: Even as the   mulls a separate law to make illegal   a  , the move left communities wondering how the government plans to handle religious sacrifices and festivities particularly in the absence of any provision for such acts in the existing laws.

 Religious heads from different communities feel the need for specific provisions in law to outline what constitutes for sacrifice for religious purposes and festivities. A host of caterers who prefer in-house slaughter of animals to meet big catering orders and do not buy meat from the market, also insist that specific provisions should be made to avoid any confrontation with the law of the land.
 
 Goats and cattle are sacrificed during Eid-ul-Adha which is popularly known as Bakrid and is slated to be celebrated in September this year all over the world. With the crackdown on small meat (mutton) shops running without licence, there is concern within the Muslim community over possibilities of law and order issue in the absence of any clear stand from the government.
 
 “If the government is mulling a separate law on illegal slaughter, then the new law should have clear provisions for slaughter of animals for religious purposes to avoid any law and order issue that comes up where people object to such practices at local levels,” says Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali, a member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB). “If there will be clear cut provisions in place, such mischief-mongers will not be able to vitiate the communal harmony as per their whims and fancies,” the maulana, who is also the Imam of Lucknow’s biggest Edigah at Aishbagh, says.
 
 The issue is not limited to the minority community alone. Serious concerns were expressed by religious heads of temples where animal sacrifice has been a tradition for ages and continues till date. “Animal sacrifice is undertaken at the temple but there is no particular place provided for it by the administration,” says Satyadev, the head priest of Tarkhula Devi Mandir on Deoria Road, barely 20 km from Gorakhpur city, the home town of chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi.
 
 “The problem is that the sacrifices at the temple are held on “mannat” (pledge) that is taken in the past,” says Manoj Ojha, a devotee of the temple hailing from Khorabar area of Gorakhpur. Ojha says with all the hue and cry over slaughter, people will hesitate from going ahead with sacrificing animals at the Tarkhula Devi Mandir, at least for now.
 
 Though Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ( ) Rules 2001 define "Slaughter" as the killing or destruction of any animal for the purpose of food, the Act does not provide for guidelines on slaughter for religious purposes or festivities. The Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1959 though details in detail with slaughter houses, it has no specific provisions related to sacrifices for religious purposes or festivities. 
 
 Section 430 under chapter XVI of the Act though provides powers to the district municipal corporation to allow or prohibit slaughter of animals for religious purposes, it is silent on if government sanctions are mandatory for all such purposes leaving options open for interpretations.
 
 
