NASHIK: A fire broke out in a small scale unit ‘Vac-Chem’ located in ‘C’ sector of Ambad industrial estates of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation ( ) on Sunday noon.

 Three fire tenders from the civic body’s fire brigade department rushed to the spot and brought fire under control in just 20 minutes.
 
 The fire brigade chief of   Anil Mahajan, said, “We received call on Sunday at around 12 noon that a small scale unit called Vac-Chem has caught fire. Our fire tenders immediately rushed to the spot. It was a minor fire was brought under control within 20 minutes. The grass and scrap materials of a plastic company were burnt but no casualty has been reported.” He added, “We had sent three fire tenders, but fire came under control with the use of the first two fire tenders itself.”
 
 The unit is engaged in the manufacturing of vacuum equipment for the chemical industry and fabrication. 
 
 Nikhil Panchal, the vice-president of the Ambad Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (AIMA) said, “We immediately visited the unit of Vac-Chem after we got information about the fire. Some fibre materials at the unit caught fire, but the reason of the fire were yet not known. It was a minor fire.”
 
 There are close to 1,500 small, medium and large industrial units in Ambad  , located 10 kms away from the city and it takes time for fire tenders to reach Ambad from the city. In the past several units were gutted in fires due to the long time it takes for fire tenders to reach the location. 
 
 There has been a long-standing demand from the industries to have separate fire station closer to the estate. After a six-year wait, the MIDC has given a work order to the company concerned to build a fire station closer to the industrial estate. The work is expected to begin shortly and the fire station is estimated to cost nine crore rupees and will be under grade ‘C’ category. While happy with the development, industries want MIDC to speed up the work for the fire station and make it operational at the earliest. 
 
