CHENNAI: Several senior   (IFS) officers in Tamil Nadu are stagnating, not for want of seniority or  , but because some of their   are holding more than one post as  . 

 Besides adversely affecting the morale of the top brass of forest managers, such immobility in ranks can lead to slackness in enforcement activities to protect natural resources in the state.
 
 The head of forest department H Basavaraju, a 1984 batch  , has been made the head bypassing four of his seniors, said an official. Till recently, he was holding additional charge of four posts, in addition to the post of department head. Recently, he hand over the post of chief wildlife warden to his senior P C Tyagi. The post of chairman of Tamil Nadu Forest Plantation Corporation, which too remained with Basavaraju, was given to T P Raghunath, his another senior colleague.
 
 The 1985 batch officers are waiting for their promotions for two years now, though in the neighboring states their batchmates have been promoted as principal chief conservator of forests more than a year ago. Additional PCCF Amit Asthana is also holding the additional charge as zoo director besides his regular post of APCCF Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA).
 
 I Anwardeen, field director of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, is holding the charge of conservator of Coimbatore circle, even after he was promoted as chief conservator of forests. 
 
 Before that he was holding additional charge as conservator and field director of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reseve for over two years.
 
 Similarly, Madurai conservator Nihar Ranjan is holding Virudhunagar circle conservator post for the past one and half years. Under him there are more than half a dozen district forest officers functioning, as Madurai circle encompasses Madurai and Theni districts. Virudhunagar includes Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts, besides Sivaganga.
 
 Chennai Wildlife Warden K Geethanjali is holding the post of additional director of Vandalur zoo since November last year, after P K Dilip was transferred to Gudalur.
 
