AURANGABAD: A day after two groups engaged in a fierce clash in the main building of the Dr   ( ) over a lecture to mark the birth anniversary of Jan Sangh leader  , a section of stakeholders have raised questions over the role of the security department of the university.

 Stating the incident has lowered the reputation of Bamu, stakeholders also said that utmost care should be taken to avoid such incidents in the future.
 
 “It cannot be believed that Bamu security staff was acting as a mute spectator while two groups were exchanging blows on the first floor of the main building. Had there been proper frisking at the entrance, miscreants could not have entered the campus,” said a senior faculty, Bamu.
 
 He said that timely intervention from the security department could have brought the situation under control within no time. 
 
 Another senior faculty from an affiliated college said that a few students have been taking advantage of the university. “The whole incident and its fallout is being aptly used by a section of elements involved to gain either political mileage or cheap publicity. The sacred campus of state university should never be misused,” he said.
 
 Student activist Tukaram Saraf said that the reasons behind security department staffers not swinging into action to control the incident and chain of events associated with it must be probed into. 
 
 “It remains to see whether university administration had issued any instructions to the security staffers while handling the incident. The incident has lowered the image of Bamu and those who are responsible for causing damage must be dealt with an iron hand,” he said.
 
 Former senate member  , who was one of those involved in Saturday’s brawl, could not be reached for comments. 
 
 When contacted, Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde, said that the university administration has taken serious cognisance of Saturday’s incident.
 
 “The security at the university campus has been an issue that needs to be addressed on a priority basis. The administration has swing into action to ensure no such incidents take place in the future,” he said.
 
 Bamu authorities said that an FIR in the whole matter would be lodged with the nearest police station on Monday. 
 
 Members of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) clashed with members of Bahujan Kranti Mukti Morcha (BKMM) on Saturday. 
 
