BHOPAL: While   police received flak for its initial investigations in the Shehla Masood  , two police officers from the state police –   and   – played a key role in cracking the murder mystery and helped CBI to take the case to its logical conclusion with the arrest of accused and collection of evidences. 

 From verification of Zahida’s residential address to recovery of murder weapon, sources in the agency said, ace investigator A G L Kaul and other officers at CBI headquarters in Delhi who were monitoring the probe were largely dependent of these two officers from the state after getting a breakthrough in the case. 
 
 CBI had begun investigations into the killing on September 6 – almost three weeks after the Shehla Masood was shot dead in broad daylight in front of her house. After A G L Kaul’s death in October 2014, these two officers were recorded at length by the CBI’s special court. 
 
 “Both of them had played a tremendous role in cracking the murder mystery, but were not rewarded by the agency. Moreover they were repatriated to the state police as few months back where some of their colleagues look at them with a jaundiced eye,” said a senior IPS officer wishing anonymity. While Nair has joined MPSTF, Tiwari has been posted in the State’s Lokayukta. 
 
 Now, that the job is complete Nair and Tiwari has been sent to the state police by CBI after they completed their deputation term. The former is posted with the state special task force while the later is with the special establishment police of Lokayukta.
 
 CBI took over the Shehla Masood murder case after doubts were raised regarding the efficiency of Madhya Pradesh police in handling such a sensitive case. Three days after Shehla’s murder, the Madhya Pradesh government had recommended a CBI inquiry. The decision came after former Union minister Jairam Ramesh wrote to the chief minister, pointing at a possible mining mafia involvement in the activist’s murder.
 
 The then state home minister Umashankar Gupta while addressing media claimed that Shehla’s family members had expressed concern and demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident. “Chief minister while accepting their demand decided to write to the CBI to investigate into the murder," he had. 
 
 When Bhopal police initially hinted the death could be a suicide, leading to allegations of a cover-up, Masood's family had demanded that only a CBI investigation could reveal the truth.
 
 Nair and Tiwari were on deputation with the CBI since 2006 and 2008.
 
 
