NEW DELHI: Advocating fundamental right status to ‘privacy’, petitioners on Thursday put the Centre on the back foot by informing the   that the government cannot take a contradictory stand after attaching cardinal importance to individual   in the Right to Information Act, 2005.

 The Centre had taken a stand that privacy was a common law right and not a fundamental right. It had couched its stand on two judgements of the SC – one in 1954 by a eightjudge bench and second in 1962 by a six-judge bench – declaring that   is not a fundamental right.
 
 Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya said in Section 8(j) of the   Act, the government had been categorical in expressing its opinion about the paramount importance of individual privacy and had made this a ground to deny personal information to RTI applicants.
 
 Section 8(j) says RTI applications would be rejected if “information which relates to personal information the disclosure of which has no relationship to any public activity or interest, or which would cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the individual unless the Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer or the appellate authority, as the case may be, is satisfied that the larger public interest justifies the disclosure of such information”.
 
 Poovaya also said the Indian Post Office Act of 1898 too respected privacy by providing for elaborate procedure for opening the letters written by one individual to another in certain situations. He and senior advocate Anand Grover pointed out that India is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which also talked of right to privacy of individuals. 
 
 “Once the country is signatory to this as well as other international instruments and treaties recognising right to privacy, it is the duty of the government of that country to incorporate it into the domestic laws.” they said.
 
 At this point, a nine-judge bench headed by CJI J S Khehar asked the counsel, “What happened to the Right to Privacy Bill, 2011?” The question came even as the bench conceded that right to privacy was a vexed issue as it is difficult to discern where and when an individual can claim privacy over personal data.
 
 On August 13, 2015, minister of personnel Jitendra Singh had informed the   that the Centre was in the process of drafting a legislation that will guarantee protection to individuals against breach of their privacy through unlawful means.
 
 The first draft of the bill was released in 2011 and in 2014 extensive modifications were incorporated into it to extend right to privacy to citizens and all residents of India.
 
 It proposes to make “right to privacy a part of right to life guaranteed to a person under Article 21” and makes it an offence if any personal data is released without prior consent of the individual.
 
