VIZIANAGARAM: On the third Sunday of Happy Streets, a large number of people hit the streets taking part in sports and various other activities such as yoga. Despite a hot and bright morning, participants were unwilling to let go of the activities that greeted Vizianagaram town on the occasion of Mother’s Day.

 This week’s theme was Mother’s Day and the public did not disappoint. They spoke eloquently about their bond with their mothers and there were some who made impassioned speeches to ensure that youngsters reach out to their parents first.
 
 More than a thousand enthusiastic people took part in Happy Streets. Some of them were drawn to the event to spend quality morning time with their children.
 
 While everybody settled with their choice of games, yoga drew a large crowd and many people were found near both ends of the street practising hatha yoga and meditation. 
 
 While the   were at one end teaching meditation techniques, members of the Yoga Consciousness Trust taught the locals how to practice basic hatha yoga. N Ravi Kumar of the Yoga Consciousness Trust said, “We are here to teach people the art of healthy living through breathing and stretching. More importantly yoga is much more than a mere fitness schedule.”
 
 Boxers took the streets by storm on Sunday led by their coach  . “Boxing is catching up big time in Vizianagaram and now that the sporting facilities are being improved there are many boys and girls willing to take to the sport,” said Kolaganti Shankar Rao. The boxers more than impressed with their shadow punching and dodging. However, if one were to talk about foot work and synchronisation it was the members of the   who impressed the most. The boys and girls led by   and P   made a lasting impression on the stage with their agile and power packed moves. 
 
 “Women and men need to take to martial arts for self-protection and confidence building. It is shameful that women are attacked and molested while there are so many who diligently observe Mother’s Day,” Srija said.
 
 Magician Achari and his two daughters Mounica and Sushmita bewildered the audience with their tricks. “Your applause will more than do for breakfast,” said Achari to the crowd.
 
 Speaking to ToI, Magician Achari said, “This art form is my passion and I have taught this to my children. I wish to teach it to more people, especially children and Happy Streets is an excellent platform to reach out to the public.”
 
