GUWAHATI: At a time when most of the state is reeling from floods, Hemen Teron's campaign for   may sound misplaced. But it is also a fact that in winter many parts of the state face acute water shortage, making cultivation difficult for farmers. 

 Hemen is part of hundreds of youths in 3000 villages of 10 districts across the state who have been assigned the task of   (water messengers) to reach out to villagers on how best they can conserve water so that multi-cropping becomes a reality and farmers' income is doubled by 2022, a deadline set by the Centre.
 
 As a part of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development ( )'s initiative for country-wide water conservation campaign, Jal Doots in the state have also been entrusted with the task of mapping water-scarce villages as well as imparting information among villagers on judicious usage of water even in the time of abundance.
 
 "My task is to make people in villages under Dimoria block of   aware on how best they can utilize water even during lean seasons through best practices of water conservation. Some of the villages where I did the campaign suffer water shortage, especially during winter. And we showed the way how best they can do cultivation through proper conservation methods of their available water sources," Hemen said.
 
 On Friday, NABARD took stock of the findings from the Jal Doots from 100 villages in Kamrup district after almost four months of campaign. The campaign was launched by NABARD in collaboration with the Centre for Environment Education on March 22 on the occasion of World Water Day.
 
 "The aim is to conserve water so that multiple cropping becomes possible. When we launched the programme we didn't think of whether the state has excess or scarce water. Our thrust is on judicious usage of water to help farmers doubling their income by 2022. NABARD is working with multiple stakeholders to leverage the benefits from water conservation," NABARD Assam regional office chief general manager Rajashree K Baruah said.
 
 NABARD has projected Rs 19,441 crore credit potential in the state's priority sector for 2017-18, which is a 60% increase, with a view to double farmers income by 2022.
 
 Jyotish Talukdar, director of grassroots voluntary organization Kalong-Kapili, said the campaign focuses on leveraging technologies, including rainwater harvesting, groundwater recharge, reviving the community ponds for agriculture and irrigation of water from hill streams. 
 
 Kalong-Kapili is entrusted to carry out the campaign in 350 villages in Nagaon and 100 villages in Kamrup district. Talukdar said most of the villages his organization covered were in hilly areas. "During the campaigns, villagers were also made aware of the low-cost technologies by which hill streams can be tapped for irrigating agriculture fields," Talukdar said.
 
