Observing that the   prescribed for death caused by rash and negligent driving under the   – two years – is inadequate, a magistrate in Kurla refused to show any   to a 45-year-old woman who knocked down a 67-year-old senior citizen in 2014.

 Magistrate Ashish Ayachit recently sentenced Sion (West) resident Pooja Darshit Sheth to two years’ imprisonment under   (causing death due to negligence), and six months’ imprisonment under Section 279 (rash and negligent driving). She has been fined Rs 11,000.
 
 The judge observed that at a time when the Law Commission of India has demanded stringent action against negligent driving and taken steps to prescribe severe punishment, showing leniency would be inappropriate. “I am of the opinion that nowadays road accidents have been increasing and it takes the life of an innocent person for no fault. Human negligence and over- speeding were responsible for the maximum number of road accidents on city roads,” Ayachit said.
 
 According to the prosecution’s case, on February 9, 2014, at 10.15 am, Sheth was driving her Wagon R in Sion. Renu Thakur and her husband Madhu Thakur, both senior citizens, were eating prasad in front of Tirupati Balaji Temple, Jain Society, Sion (West), when Sheth’s car rammed into Madhu.
 
 According to his wife Renu’s statement to the police, after being hit from the left, her husband started bleeding profusely from his nose and mouth. Renu said Sheth tried to flee the scene but a passerby stopped her car and took her husband to the hospital in the same car. Sheth was then arrested from the hospital.
 
 The prosecution examined four witnesses in the case. This included his wife, another eyewitness who helped take him to the hospital, Thakur’s nephew and the investigating officer.
 
 The prosecution, led by  , argued that “the road proceeding in front of Tirupati Temple is narrow and cars are parked there. Therefore, it becomes Sheth’s duty be careful and cautious, more particularly, near the temple, where pedestrians would frequent.”
 
 The defence, led by lawyer Sharad Mhatre, said that Renu Thakur and the eyewitness’s evidence would not suffice as they hadn’t said that Sheth was driving the car rashly or negligently. On the contrary, he submitted that Renu Thakur did not see how and at what speed the car was travelling.
 
 The defence also said Thakur was trying to cross the road, and that Sheth took him to the hospital on humanitarian grounds.
 
 “The accused has clearly admitted she was driving the car…. It is very hard to digest that she would be falsely implicated in the case, when she helped the informant to reach the hospital on humanitarian grounds,” the judge said.
 
 “The Hon’ble Apex Court has expressed the opinion that punishment provided under Section 304A Indian Penal Code is absolutely inadequate. However, the court cannot pass a sentence more than is prescribed for the offence. Therefore, I am of view that it would be unjustified to take a lenient view and impose a fine sentence or lesser sentence than prescribed…. I therefore think it proper to impose maximum sentence,” he observed
 
 When Mirror contacted the Thakurs, they said they weren’t aware of the judgment. “The punishment is not adequate. Can this bring my father back? I cannot explain the amount of pressure my family has been under in this case,” son Rajesh Thakur said.
 
 Sheth, though contacted, refused to comment.
 
