NEW DELHI: The   wants to know how many children have gone   in the city since 2016 and efforts made to trace them.

 A bench of   and Justice C Hari Shankar recently began fresh proceedings and directed DCP Police Headquarters to furnish full details of status of missing children for the entire Delhi region.
 
 “For present, let information for the year 2016-17 be furnished to this court in a tabulated manner,” the court said. Appearing for the government, standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan assured the bench that police will produce the information.
 
 The court termed the issue of missing children as one of “extreme importance” saying it needs to be taken up independently.
 
  turned its attention on missing children during a hearing on inadequacy of public toilets in the city for which it has been giving directions from time to time. During the hearing, the court was disturbed to find that many children go missing either when they go to ease themselves in the open or otherwise.
 
 “A second issue is flagged in this writ petition which is the issue of missing children. It is also complained that the complaints regarding missing children are wrongly registered as cases of elopement by Delhi Police and that insufficient efforts are made to trace them,” the bench observed while de-linking both issues.
 
 On lack of enough public toilets, the bench directed all civic agencies to ensure there are enough toilets in crowded places, especially in commercial markets. The bench indicated it wants mapping of these public toilets so that the public is aware of the locations.
 
 “All agencies shall explore and examine the possibility as well as the feasibility of mapping the locations of these public toilets by way of geo-tagging and making the same available, by an appropriate application, to all mobile users or otherwise on the internet to facilitate accessibility of all information regarding location of public toilets. Such report shall also be filed before us before the next date of hearing,” the bench noted in its order.
 
  HC directed all to supply information on location of their public toilet facilities to the commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation or the director of the Delhi Environment Management Services (DEMS) of north corporation. 
 
 
