 should consider himself extremely fortunate to be part of India's 21-member squad for the   U-17 World Cup.

 After a particularly demanding trip to Europe under former coach  , Hendry was told that he no longer has a future with the Indian team. He was asked to pack his bags and even goodbyes were said. The team returned to India and what happened next stunned everyone -allegations of abuse surfaced against Nicolai and the German coach was forced to quit.
 
 Hendry, meanwhile, continued with the team, largely because the team management had unwavering faith in the Karnataka youngster. New coach   found the right-back quite effective and Hendry is now set to play the opener against United States on Oct 6. Hendry is not alone in getting a new lease of life after the arrival of de Matos. India's final squad has just 12 players from last year's team for the U-16 AFC Championship. “I am happy with the selection, but honestly in a country like India, you can have competitive players coming in from anywhere,” de Matos told TOI.
 
 De Matos has himself introduced new players, many of whom were discarded by the previous regime. Anwar Ali is the best example. The Punjab lad had left the team even before Nicolai's arrival ­ but he impressed de Matos during a friendly between Minerva Punjab and India U-17s. Minerva won that match and Anwar, now India's first choice stopper-back, shone brightest.
 
 Jackson Singh, Mohammad Shahjahan and Nongdamba Naorem are the other three players whose India dreams took shape after that Minerva friendly win. Lalengmawia is another fine example of a player grabbing an opportunity with both hands. While scouting for players around the country, scouts landed in Mizoram where a friendly match was organized between select players from northeast and India U-17s.The guys from the northeast gave India a scare and Lalengmawia was at the heart of the 1-1 draw. Four players were handpicked to the next stage of trials and Lalengmawia was the only one to last the distance. “I need about six weeks to understand a player. I look for players who can interpret my ideas and implement them on the field,“ said the Portuguese coach.
 
 
 
 
 Transitioning from one coach to an Transitioning from one coach to another was never going to be easy, particularly with just seven months remaining. When Nicolai was in charge, India were quick off the blocks and could kill opposition on the counter-attack. Blessed with pace, players like Boris Singh and Aniket Singh had just one instruction: run when you have the ball at your feet.
 
 With de Matos it's markedly different. His focus has been on a more possession-oriented game. “I like the players to have more possession of the ball. Barcelona are always in control of any match because they have the ball all the time.”
 
