NASHIK: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation’s ( ) regional office has acquired   parcel meant for the proposed  . A proposal for infrastructural development has been sent to the head office for approval.

 Once the approval comes in, the MIDC will float tenders for developing infrastructure. The proposed park is expected to attract investment and provide job opportunities to the youths.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a senior official from the MIDC said, “We have already acquired 113 hectare at Sayane near Malegaon that will house only textile units. We are in the process of developing infrastructure. We have already prepared a proposal worth Rs 15 crore to develop infrastructure like roads, water supply, streetlights, among others. The proposal has been sent to our head office in Mumbai for approval.”
 
 He added, “We will float a tender for infrastructural works once we get a nod from our head office. There may be delay of a month due to code of conduct due to civic and ZP elections. It will take around a year for developing the infrastructure following which plots at the park will be allotted to textile units.”
 
 Apart from this, the MIDC is also mulling over to build Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) project for the textile units. “The CETP project is estimated to cost Rs 10 crore. We are preparing the proposal that will be sent to our head office for approval,” said the official.
 
 Manish Rawal, chairman of NIMA infrastructure committee, said, “This is a positive development for Nashik. Textile sector is still new for Nashik and this proposed Textile Park will attract new investments. This will not only fetch investment, but will also provide job opportunities to thousands of youths. It will also create a vendor base in Nashik.”
 
 He added, “We are already making efforts to bring in new investment, but we need adequate land. At this juncture, 113 hectare (282 acres) will be available for textile units. At the same time, the MIDC needs to develop infrastructure at the earliest and start allotment of plots for those who wanting to set up textile units.”
 
