Nagpur: With the number of sites for Ravan dahan, or burning an effigy of demon king, going up to 40 this Dussehra, the Binwar family in Mahal, the only ones who make these figures, are a busy lot. “We have made 16 figures this year and the rest are being made by other members of our family,” says Arjun Singh Binwar, who was at Kasturchand Park on Thursday to assemble the figures of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhkaran. Everybody wants a different look for the figures ordered by them. “Since our craftsmanship is involved we try to make the effigies look majestic for which we use good quality art paper that we source from Delhi. Different colours are used on the ten heads to bring out his evil expressions,” says Arjun and adds, “The frame is made with bamboo which we get from Balaghat or Seoni as what is available locally is not of good quality.” Charging around Rs3000 per foot, Binwar says there has been a 35% hike in the rates this year. “This is due to increase in labour charges and government taxes. We are making figures starting from 10 feet and going up to 65 feet, which will be installed at Kasturchand Park,” he says. This would be the 66th year for Sanatan Dharam Yuvak Sabha who first organized Ravan dahan at KP. The innovative presentations that include sound and light shows now attract thousands on Dussehra. “This year too there will be dramatized presentation of stories from Ramayan which include the episodes of Lord Rama going to the forest, chopping of Surpnakha’s nose by Laxman, Sita’s abduction among others,” said Vijay Kher, who heads Sabha’s Dussehra Committee on Friday. “As per the guidelines given by heritage committee, only two wheelers will be allowed to be parked on the ground and arrangements for car parking have been made at Bishop Cotton School,” he informed. A fancy dress competition for children with Ramayan as its theme will be held. “We will start at 5pm with a cultural programme. The 23rd special edition of our magazine Sanatan Samachar will also be released on this day,” Kher said. For the last 56 years, Pujya Panchayat at Kachchi Beesa, Lakadganj, has been burning effigy of Ravan. “We started this practice as five decades back not many people had any mode of transport to reach Kasturchand Park,” says Kishor Kasturi, president of the panchayat. Started some eight years back, the burning of Ravan effigy at Chitnis Park is organized by Bhartiya Yuva Morcha. “Punjab Seva Samiti used to organize Ravan dahan where we have Gandhibag garden now,” says corporator Daya Shankar Tiwari. “In 1998, as the corporator of the area I had banned this activity when the garden was developed. It was shifted to Reshimbagh ground,” he informs. “Later members of Yuva Morcha wanted to perform Ravan dahan at Chitnis Park and got the police permission to do so and now it is being organized every year,” he added.