BARWANI/KHARGONE: Denmark’s bridge player Morten Bilde along with six other junior players visited farming village of Raibidpura in   that is famous for its bridge players.

 The Danish players gave tips about the game and also played Indian traditional sports Kho-Kho with the bridge players of the village. To promote the game, a club named  , has been opened in the village.
 
 “The club was established in 2012 by taking a house on rent with help of a grant of $1000 from a US-based business magnet Bill Gates’s foundation,” Anil Verma, an active member of the club told TOI.
 
 He said that Denmark team led by Bilde, a famous bridge player and trainer visited Raibidpura, 22 km from   district headquarters. They were accompanied by Amaresh Deshpande of Kodaikanal and Deone Menzes of Goa.
 
 Amaresh, an educationalist and bridge player had visited Raibidpura five years ago after he came to know about bridge players of the village through internet. He has also developed a mobile app, ‘Kida’ for teaching bridge to children and youth.
 
 The Danish bridge team was traditionally welcomed by villagers and later on they took them for a visit to the village on bullock cart. They also tasted some Indian delicacies at the village.
 
  Bilde, who has introduced bridge in 70 schools of Denmark, said that he was curious to see a bridge dominated village. His speech was translated in Hindi by his Indian counterparts. Before reaching Raibidpura Bilde had visited and trained players of Mumbai and Delhi.
 
  Bilde and his team members organised a three-hour-long workshop and trained students of class III to VIII of three schools. Six Danish junior players (three pairs) also played the game with Raibidpura village kids. Danish players have won the tour of India as their prizes. The Danish player stayed in the village for eight hours and also learned and played kho- kho. 
 
 Verma said that a team from Canada also visited here and lots of NRIs use to come and see the   played here for four decades.
 
 “Director of   Manoj Nayak has also praised Raibidpura bridge players,” said another farmer Jitendra Gurjar.
 
 Meanwhile, villagers complained that they don’t get support from government and district administration for encouragement of the players and the game. Five selected players from Raibidpura couldn’t participate in an international event held at Istanbul as they didn’t get their passport and Visa on time.
 
