BENGALURU:   works as a security staffer at  . On Tuesday, standing outside the gate of the mall, she looked worried about the future.
“Yesterday, our agency manager said they've declared leave for us and we have to return only when they call us back. But we are worried as to when they will call us. I am here to enquire when the mall will reopen but the authorities themselves don't know,“ she said, holding her child tight.
 
 For   (name changed), who works at an ice cream parlour in the mall, Monday afternoon brought an unpleasant shock.
 
 “I am part of a 15-member team which works on the third floor of the mall. We heard a big noise and security guards there asked us to leave everything and step out.There was panic all around.While coming down, I could see water seeping in, covering the corridors of the second floor,“ he added.
 
 Hundreds of employees like Lakshmi and Dharam were upset that they were not even allowed inside the mall on Tuesday to take stock of things in their outlets.
 
 According to rough esti mates, over 1,500 employees work at various outlets of the mall at any given point of time. The five-floor mall has about 250 retail outlets and a food court spread over 1lakh sqft. “Our agency has to pay a rent of about Rs 1 lakh for the space. Shutting down business means a loss of Rs 10,000 per day for us.
 
 Also, we can't keep perishable items for long and this incident will definitely leave us in debt,“ he added.
 
 By after noon, Mantri Square authorities allowed some shop owners and food and beverage stall operators to shift their goods outside.
 
 Employees of Shiv Sagar, an eatery chain, were seen shifting vegetables and other foodstuff to joints they own elsewhere in the city .
 
 However, food stall owners who don't have other alternatives, had little clue about what they would do with their goods, especially perishables.
 
 Tanmayee K, who works at a fashion goods store, said Monday was her weekly off. “I came here with an idea that operations would be smooth today. I didn't know it was closed. The authorities have asked employees like us to go on leave till they get some clarity on the reopening of the mall,“ she added.
 
