MANGALURU: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have retained top positions in PU results for the second successive year in terms of overall pass percentage.

 Udupi, which was in second position last year, bettered it this time by bagging first position with 90.01% and Dakshina Kannada (89.82%), which was in first position last year, was displaced by Udupi to second position. In 2015, Dakshina Kannada recorded a pass percentage of 92.38 as against Udupi's 92.32.
 
 R B Nayak, deputy director, department of PU Education, termed it a satisfactory result. “The result is the joint effort of parents, teachers and students. We received moral support from the district administrations and zilla panchayats. Though there is 5% decline in the percentage in the state, it is just .34% in Udupi,“ he added.
 
 Students who scored high marks from colleges in Dakshina Kannada district attributed their success to their alma mater.
 
 Niharika H R, student of Alva's  , Moodbidri, dedicated her achievement to her parents and teachers. The daughter of teacher couple Rajesha H L and Savitha S V from Mandya district, Niharika bagged 594 out of 600 in Science stream.
 
 Niharika did not attend any extra coaching other than her routine classes to bag 594 marks with cent per cent in physics, maths, biology and Kannada. “. It is nothing but the support of my parents and the best coaching I received at the college reason for my success,“ Niharika told TOI. “I want to enrol for medical course and also write civil service examination.“
 
 Spandana V , also from Alva's PU College, bagged 594 marks out of 600 in Commerce. She scored 100 in business studies, accountancy, statistics, basic maths and Sanskrit. Spandana is the daughter of D Vijaya Kumar, a businessman from Raichur and V Bharathy, a homemaker. Spandana said she dreams of pursuing CA after BCom. “I dedicated an average of four hours for studies. I did not attend extra coaching since my college conducted extra classes to cover all portions,“ she added.
 
 Darshan P , who scored 593 out 600 in Commerce, too managed without extra coaching. “What I learnt from   as a regular student helped me score, apart from regular revision of subjects. I never skipped classes and have 100% attendance,“ he said.
 
 Darshan scored 100 in business studies, accountancy, statistics and business administration, 98 in Hindi and 95 in English. While his father Sathish P works on building sites, his mother is a homemaker.
 
 Pranava Bhat, a student of SDM PU College, Ujire, scored 594 out of 600, while  , from Alva's PU College, also bagged 594 marks.
 
