BENGALURU: 
 
 

 
 It’s like what parents do for their children. They want to secure the future of their children by giving good education, or building a few assets for them. To ensure a better future for wildlife, securing their habitats is vital, and then comes recovery. Systematic enhancing of protected areas has provided connectivity for wild animals, especially wide-ranging species such as tigers and elephants, across 23 sites. This exercise is a matter of concern for humans, as these forests are the most important source of fresh water for us; most of our rivers take birth here.
 
 
 
 It’s a long-winding process. Our first effort to expand the protected area around Anshi-Dandeli in Uttara Kannada, of about 60,000 acres, started in 2002 and took seven years for the final notification to be issued. The challenge is to build consensus among stakeholders, including communities, bureaucrats and politicians. Starting from a clerk to the chief minister, you need to follow things up till the last mile. Our biggest expansion of 6.5 lakh acres around areas like Bannerghatta National Park, MM Hills, Cauvery and Nagarhole took only two years from 2010. This was possible because of the supportive bureaucracy a responsive political leadership, and individuals like (cricketer) Anil Kumble.
 
 
 
 Wherever protected areas have been expanded, villages have been notified as enclosures so that the rights of inhabitants are not affected. We explained to them how protected forests would ensure good rains, water for drinking and agriculture etc. The role of local politicians, especially MLAs, is important in spreading the right message among villagers. 
 
 
 
 Most of the wounds have healed. However, I’m yet to regain full sensitivity of my right hand.Princess Anne, while handing over the award to me, said, ‘Oh, you are the man with a lot of scars’. As far as I am concerned, I have moved on, and my efforts for conservation of big cats, especially leopards, have continued. I spend more than 60% of my time in the field.
 
 
 
 I dedicate this recognition to the frontline staff of the forest department. Guards and watchers, rangers and some able leadership are the reason why our forests and wildlife are in good shape. And expanding protected areas is a collaborative effort with the support of the forest department, the government, my colleagues, and also my family.
 
 
 
 After the award ceremony, I met a person called Brake, who is completely paralyzed after he met with an accident while skiing. He can move only his eyes, and with the help of technology, he manages to communicated through eye movement. He comes to the event every year as he gets a lot of inspiration from awardees. The incident moved me. Applied conservation also means a thousand petty humiliations, and hardships. Conservation is not a project, but a long-term commitment and relationship to a landscape. It’s not just based on science, but has a strong grounding in society.
 
