DARJEELING: In the worst violence since the beginning of the current unrest over Gorkhaland, three persons were killed in alleged police firing in Darjeeling and the Sonada toy train station set on fire, prompting Bengal CM   on Saturday to appeal for peace and offer talks with the Hills parties. 

 The Sonada station, along with a local police station and a traffic police booth, was set ablaze by demonstrators after the death of Tashi Bhutia, a   (GNLF) supporter, late on Friday evening. The Chawkbazar and Motor Stand areas in the heart of Darjeeling turned into a war zone as GNLF and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) workers tried to march with Bhutia's body to Sadar Hospital for an autopsy on Saturday. In the ensuing clash with police, Suraj Soondas, 35, died of bullet injuries. 
 
 The violence continued even as the procession moved downhill towards Singmari and Patlewas, where the GJM's party office is located. In another clash with cops, a person identified as Samir Subba was killed near Singmari. An unidentified person was injured. 
 
 Two columns of the Army were called out in Sonada and Darjeeling on Saturday afternoon. While police remain tightlipped on Friday evening's firing at Sonada - a stronghold of pro-Gorkhaland supporters - Banerjee called for restraint and said the death would be probed. "Shun violence and allow the government to supply food and offer minimum services to the people of Darjeeling. This is my appeal. If you agree to my appeal, we can have a meeting in 10-15 days," she said. 
 
 The CM also accused the Centre of "non-cooperation", and claimed the crisis could have been averted through timely deployment of central forces. GNLF spokesperson Neeraj Zimba alleged that Bhutia, who had gone out to buy medicines, was shot by police without provocation. "There are no prohibitory orders under Section 144 and people have a right to move around. This is murder," he said. 
 
 The violence at   spread to Darjeeling town, with Gorkhaland supporters clashing with cops at the taxi stand at Chawrasta. After Soondas' death, matters went out of control with a mob setting fire to police vehicles and vandalizing police kiosks. One of the vehicles set ablaze was parked at the district magistrate's office. CCTV cameras along Hill Cart Road and Lebong Cart Road were damaged. The mob also vandalized the office of DSP (town) and one belonging to the supplies department. TMC office at Judgebazar was also torched. 
 
 The Army was finally called out around 3pm. While one column moved to Sonada, the other remained at Darjeeling. 
 
