PUNE: The   will soon have a   around its entire premises to enhance security. There have been instances of poachers trespassing into the academy’s campus in the past. 

 The construction work of the 37 km-long   is its the final phase of completion. The   authorities are of the opinion that this wall will prevent trespassers from entering into the campus, especially those from hilly regions. 
 
 Furthermore, authorities feel that this additional security measure will certainly help them to secure the  .
 
 “A boundary road of 42 kms along the wall ensures easy access and constant surveillance. This is a significant step, focused at fortifying the academy in keeping with the current security situation and other factors like preservation of flora and fauna. This will also help in increasing the deer population significantly. Besides, the cutting of the lucrative Sandalwood trees will stop as well,” said NDA authorities.
 
 Sources from the academy told TOI, "It is essential to have adequate security measures, especially when the academy is surrounded by jungle terrain. There have been instances in the past wherein the NDA security personnel have come across trespassers into the campus mainly hailing from villages in the vicinity. These trespassers mainly come for two purposes: to poach deer and cut sandalwood. As a result, the authorities decided to construct the wall to curb this menace."
 
 Since the academy is the country's tri-service training establishment it is always on the hit list of terrorists organization.
 
 Allegedly, after the 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai, Pakistani born American terrorist David Coleman Headley had conducted a recee of the academy along with other important defence institutions, including Southern Command, HQ, Pune. 
 
 Commenting on being a soft target for terrorists, the NDA authorities said, “In the recent past, Defence training academies in our neighboring countries have been soft targets for terrorists. This wall will make the academy safer against any such threats. Round-the-clock security and surveillance of this premier establishment is of paramount importance and will be enhanced with the construction of the perimeter boundary wall.”
 
