BENGALURU: The goods and services tax (GST) has made a dent in the state exchequer, with revenue collection falling short by Rs 900 crore in July, the first month after the new unified taxation system was rolled out.

 According to budget projections, the state was expected to collect Rs 3,580 crore through GST in July, but the revenue realization has been pegged at Rs 2,700 crore. Around Rs 2,100 crore has come through the state component (SGST) and Rs 600 crore via interstate transactions component (IGST). The state has also collected Rs 2,100 towards the central component (CGST) and transferred it to the Centre.
 
 Commercial tax department officials attribute the shortfall to lack of tax compliance caused by technical snags in the GSTN web portal. Of the 4,55,990 registered dealers, 3,34,000 (73%) were able to pay tax before the August deadline. “Had the GSTN portal worked properly, the state could have collected more tax,” said S Prakash, secretary of   Practitioners’ Association.
 
 The main cause of concern is that Karnataka can’t expect the Centre to compensate this revenue loss unless it ensures 100% compliance. “The Centre is obligated to compensate only when a particular state collects GST from all taxpayers and still there is a revenue gap,” said Vivek Mallya, a GST expert and chartered accountant.
 
 “We need to wait till October-end to claim any compensation. By then, we will be clearer on the revenue figures,” said an official in the finance department.
 
 “Total compliance can only be realized by rectifying the glitches. Without doing this, it would be unfair on the Centre’s part to expect traders to be compliant and deny compensation,” said B T Manohar, state taxation chairman and team GST of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI).
 
 Central team in Bengaluru
 
 The   has set up a team of ministers, officials and experts to address tech-related issues of GST. The team visited the city on Friday and took stock of the situation. The group of ministers appointed to look into the issue is expected to visit Bengaluru on Saturday.
 
 Revenue loss on petrol, diesel too
 
 Despite petroleum products getting dearer by day, the state has lost revenue from the sale of petrol and diesel after GST rollout. While petrol and diesel have been kept out of the GST ambit, the state collected only Rs 850 crore in sales tax in July against the expectation of Rs 1,050 crore. The loss is attributed to the abolition of 5% entry tax, which ceased to exist from July 1 under the GST regime.
 
 
