MUMBAI:  , the former allrounder-turned-commentator and Team India director, has been appointed the cricket team's new coach till the 2019 World Cup.

 Former India pacer   has been named the team's bowling coach, while batting legend Rahul Dravid will be brought on board in a specialised role as overseas batting coach.
 
 
 
 
 
 The developments were announced by the Indian cricket board ( ) late in the night on Tuesday. Rumours of Shastri's appointment had been swirling since late Tuesday afternoon. The three-member Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) which appointed the coaches first put off announcing the decision that was made on Monday itself before finally recommending the names to the board after over 24 hours.
 
 BCCI acting president C K Khanna confirmed the developments after speaking with CAC members. TOI had reported on Tuesday that all Indian players, led by captain Virat Kohli, were unanimously in favour of Shastri taking over the role of coach, left vacant after Anil Kumble's resignation last month.
 
 
 
 A Team India member said, “The right thing has finally been done. Better late than never.” It can be argued that the CAC hasn't been fair on Shastri in forcing a support staff on him. He could've zeroed in on candidates after consulting team members, particularly Kohli. Be it Greg Chappell or Gary Kirsten or Duncan Fletcher, all coaches for India's senior men's team appointed by the Indian cricket board over the last 12 years have preferred working with a support staff of their choice.
 
 Chappell preferred to work with Ian Frazer, Kirsten partnered with Paddy Upton and brought in Eric Simons. Duncan Fletcher introduced Trevor Penny as India's fielding coach some years ago.
 
 However, there were no objections whatsoever to Zaheer's name being recommended, given the kind of experience he brings to the table. As far as Dravid is concerned, his involvement will help the Indian team immensely as Kohli and his boys get ready for some arduous tours of South Africa, England and Australia in the next two years, followed by the 2019 ICC World Cup.
 
 “Dravid's services will be sought as and when required,” Khanna said.
 
 
 
 
 
 On Monday, the CAC members went through a six-hour interview process which involved five candidates ­ Shastri, Tom Moody, Virender Sehwag, Lalchand Rajput and Richard Pybus. Among all the presentations made and interviews given, TOI learned that Shastri and Moody came off the most impressive. On Tuesday, it came to light that Shastri had ended up ticking all the boxes when he answered the CAC and it is learned that his interaction with Sourav Ganguly was one based on mutual respect and some serious discussion on the way forward.
 
 Shastri, who is holidaying in England, is expected to return to the country around July 16 and skipper Kohli, who flew to the US after the series in the Caribbean, is also expected to return around the same time. The Indian team is all set to fly to Sri Lanka for a long tour on July 19.
 
 Shastri's appointment as coach brings an end to a needless saga that surrounded the issue since he was ignored for the position in 2016 despite being impressive in his role as Team India director. A successful commentator, Shastri had agreed to keep his close to 24-year-old career as commentator aside to work with the Indian team as it ran out of options.
 
 The CAC, in 2016, appointed Kumble as coach despite the Indian team being unanimously in favour of Shastri. The fact that he has now eventually been handed over the role proves the team has been vindicated.
 
 ILLUSTRIOUS LIST
 
 The BCCI officially started appointing coaches only in the 1990s, replacing a system of ad-hoc managers appointed tour by tour. Bishan Singh Bedi's appointment in the 1990s was a critical turning point, although he too was referred to largely as `manager'. A full coaching appointment only began with Ajit Wadekar. Here is the list...
 
 
  
  
 
