THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city police are planning to launch a dedicated   number to help teenagers, who are trapped in the clutches of drug and ganja mafia. Apparently deriving inspiration from confession pages, which are a fad among youngsters on social media, the police intend to use the helpline to play an online ‘agony uncle’, who would guide the youths hoping for a rehabilitation.

 City police commissioner G Sparjan Kumar has already held discussion with city police control room assistant commissioner V Suresh Kumar, who leads the shadow squad, in this regard. The city shadow squad had been diligently engaged in a mission to nab ganja and drug peddlers and save youngsters from their clutches.
 
 “These youths do not know whom to approach for help. They are afraid of opening up to the parents on fear of facing their wrath, which would even result in loss of all freedom and privileges they have been enjoying so far,” Sparjan Kumar said. They just need to send a message to the dedicated WhatsApp number detailing their problem and the police would guide them with advices. If needed, they would also take action on the perpetrators, who have trapped the youths.
 
 As per the plan, the police would keep the identity of the youths, who approach for help, a secret. They would not have to nurse the fear of facing any legal action if their intentions are clear.
 
 The commissioner also said that he would be holding a meeting with the officials of the city cyber cell and other officers concerned to discuss about the initiative on Saturday.
 
 “The same initiative can be implemented on SMS platform too but WhatsApp is being preferred owing to its popularity and also to get an instant connect with young generation,”
 
 As an officer, who had first-hand experience in dealing such cases, control room AC Suresh Kumar said that the initiative, once launched, would be beneficial to the parents too.
 
 “My experience is that it is mostly parents, who approach us seeking help once they find out about the addiction of their wards,” the AC said adding that his team had successfully reformed nearly a 100 youths in the past one year.
 
 According to an officer, who is part of the city shadow squad, the curiosity of teens to try out ganja and other narcotic drugs would soon become an addiction and there would arise a situation, where their pocket money is no longer sufficient to buy regular doses. That is where the mafia plays its part to trap the youngsters. They would offer the stuff in return of their services to operate as peddlers.
 
 “Whenever we arrest a peddler, we would go through their call and message history to find out their accomplices. That’s when we come across such youths, mostly students, who work for them as carriers,” said a shadow cop, adding that there have been instances where the police had let them go with a warning considering their tender age. The cops would even make them sit through periodic counselling sessions until they are sure that the youths are properly reformed.
 
