MUMBAI: The 
  to getting the mayor's post in the   with one more Independent extending support to the party and taking its strength to 88. The Sena, which won 84 seats, had secured the support of three Independents earlier. On Saturday, Kiran Landge from Kurla extended his support.

 While Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday that the mayor will be from the Sena, 
  told TOI that the   would contest the mayoral election with the help of NCP and smaller parties. A Congress leader said that if the smaller parties put up a nominee, it will be easier for the Sena nominee to sail through. However, the AICC stepped in on Saturday saying there was 
  backing the Sena.
 
 The BJP will not have a post-poll understanding with Congress in BMC and will not abandon its transparency agenda, CM Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday. “We will take along those who come with us, but proceed without those who don't,“ he said, addressing a rally at the state BJP office. The rally was part of the 
  in every district headquarters across India after victories in the civic polls in Maharashtra and Odisha.
 
 “Let those who want to align with Congress do so. We won't stop them,“ Fadnavis said, in an apparent reference to reports that the Sena was toying with the idea of roping in the Congress.
 
 Sena leader Sanjay Raut told agencies that the mayor would be from the Sena and that “reports that we sought support from Congress are not true.“ A Sena functionary said the party is not keen to go with the BJP in the BMC and is expecting support from the MNS, which has seven corporators. Sena leader and MP Anil Desai told TOI said no talks had taken place with BJP as of now.
 
 If there is no agreement between   and BJP, a triangular contest will be on the cards in the mayoral election. Nirupam told TOI, “Congress and smaller parties together have a strength of 40-45. We know our nominee will not win, but the mayoral election should not be a cakewalk for BJP or Sena.“
 
 A Congress leader said that in the event the smaller parties put up a nominee, the Sena would get the mayor's post. “Sena has now 88 members, while BJP has 82 and Congress, along with others, has 40 to 43 votes. The Sena's prospects are better,“ he said.
 
 Nirupam however said, “AICC has made it clear to the Mumbai Congress and state Congress that the Congress will not support the Sena irrespective of whether it withdraws from the government.“
 
 On the other hand, former CM Prithviraj Chavan said all options are open and it was for the AICC to take a decision.
 
 In an indication that the Congress was split over the issue, ex-Congress MP   said, “I take strong objection to any attempt to tie up or give indirect support to Sena. That will be against Congress policies. I have brought this to the notice of Congress vice-president  .“
 
 After a meeting of Congress leaders on Friday , state Congress chief Ashok Chavan had said all will depend on whether the Sena quits the state government. A former Congress MP said the general view in the party was that the Congress should support the Sena provided it withdraws from the government.
 
 The Sena is trying to get the support of the fifth Independent, Mumtaz Khan, wife of ex-Congress corporator Rahebar Khan, from Bandra (W). But Mumtaz has not yet decided. Rahebar Khan said, “We have been receiving calls from Sena but have not decided yet. The party which will help us develop our ward will get our support.“ Ramdas Athavale of RPI met the CM to discuss prospects of a SenaBJP alliance.   reiterated Sena and BJP must join hands.
 
