BENGALURU: One evening in February, a cavalcade of 10 vehicles made its way through a narrow road in Devanahalli and came to a halt at the entrance to  , a tony, gated villa community in Sadahalli village, about 5km from the  .

 The elaborate arrangements, including police protection, raised eyebrows. Is it a new rich businessman or a politician? It was 
  , the man hoping to be the next US envoy to India. He is the founder of the Republican Hindu Coalition in the US. Kumar, through the proximity cultivated over the past one year with  , is said to now have a direct line to the president.
 
 Kumar, born and raised in Punjab before he moved to the US in 1969 to do a masters in engineering, owns a bungalow in Jade Garden which he has named `Rana Reagan Palace'. Inspired by Jaipur's Rambagh Palace, the bungalow is Kumar's tribute to former US president   and Rana Pratap, the king of Mewar in Rajasthan.
 
 “Sir (Kumar) is a very big person in the US and lots of people know him. He comes to this house twice a year and is a senator, something akin to our MPs,“ a security guard at the entrance to Jade Garden told TOI. The awe and respect were palpable.
 
 Contrary to what the security guard said, Kumar is not a senator, but he has substantial influence in the Hindu community in the US. A vocal supporter of Trump, he coined the campaign tagline, `Abki Baar, Trump Sarkar', similar to the BJP's election slogan three years ago.
 
 TOI managed to identify the location of the building after a security guard in a nearby gated community recognized his house from the photos shown to him. They could not say when Kumar is expected next and nobody was available in the house. The caretaker may be living on the premises.
 
 Kumar, who became a US citizen in 1981, is a married father of four, lives in the suburbs of Chicago and heads AVG Group, which manufactures and sells electronic component systems.The company has an Indian subsidiary , AVG Electronics, which is headquartered in Bengaluru and used to run a factory in Yela hanka, a probable reason why Kumar owns a bungalow close to the airport.
 
 TOI learnt that Kumar's visit to Bengaluru in February was at least partly to deal with issues in the Indian subsidiary . A general manager at the company declined to comment. The company has a two-acre plot in Kengeri in west Bengaluru to set up a manufacturing unit, according to its website.
 
 TOI tried to contact Kumar for this story , but did not receive any response.
 
