NEW DELHI: In an unprecedented step, a bench of seven senior most   judges on Wednesday asked Calcutta high court's Justice   to be present in the SC on February 13 and explain why he should not face  . 

  In a sombre, 25-minute hearing held in pin drop silence in a jam-packed courtroom, a bench of CJI J S Khehar and Justices Dipak Misra, J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur, P C Ghose and Kurian Joseph issued notice to Karnan and asked him to appear and explain whether a series of letters levelling "scurrilous" allegations against sitting and retired SC and HC judges were indeed written by him and if so, why contempt of court proceedings be not drawn against him. 
 
  Pending contempt proceedings, the bench took another unprecedented step of stripping Karnan of all judicial and administrative work. "Justice Karnan shall forthwith refrain from handling any judicial or administrative work as may've been assigned to him as a consequence of the position held by him. He is also directed to return all judicial and administrative files in his possession to the Calcutta HC registrar general," it ordered. 
 
  Though the unparalleled step was taken by top judicial brains on the SC bench, they were aware of the unchartered path ahead. "We will be seeking assistance from the bar at a larger level - what we can do and what we cannot. What should be the punishment? If punished (for contempt), should he remain in office? These issues are of vital importance. We have to be and we should be very careful," the court said. Proceedings before the seven-judge Constitution bench started on Wednesday with attorney general Mukul Rohatgi making a 20-minute presentation on the constitutional crisis triggered by Karnan's allegations against judges and the judiciary. 
 
  Rohatgi said this was a case where facts, existence of letters authored by Karnan, were not in any doubt. "These are open communications. Nature of allegations are disparaging and scurrilous, which are very mild words to describe the charges he has made against sitting and retired judges. It brings the administration of justice to complete disrepute. This court must set an example and it will make citizens aware that the SC will not hesitate to take action against anyone who brings administration of justice to disrepute even if the person is an HC judge," he said. 
 
    said the signature on the letters appeared to be of Karnan. "Let him come before us and decide whether he owns up authorship of the letters. If he denies, then it will change the entire scenario," the CJI said, indicating that this could require a thorough inquiry. Rohatgi requested the court to direct the Calcutta HC chief justice not to allocate judicial work to Karnan till he purged himself of contempt charges. "Add to the order that if Justice Karnan writes any more similar letters, it will aggravate the contempt charges," the AG said. 
 
  But the court refused and said it was a request based on presumption. The SC also said it would not direct the HC CJ to withdraw judicial and administrative work from Karnan. "Ordinarily, the SC never directs the HC CJ, we only request him. But why put the HC CJ to trouble when we can do it. We will neither direct nor request the CJ. We will do it ourselves," the bench said. 
 
  Selected to be a judge of Madras HC by the collegium headed by then CJI K G Balakrishnan in 2008, Karnan was born on June 12, 1955 in Karnatham village Tamil Nadu's Cuddalore district. His father had secured the President's award for being a good teacher. He passed law from Madras Law College in 1983. 
 
 
