LONDON: Age has taught   well. The 37-year-old knows when to go for it, when to walk away, when to wait. Venus gave her opponent, 19-year-old Ana Konjuh - who wasn't even born when the great American made her debut here 20 summers ago -a Centre Court lesson in owning time. “Winning never gets old at any stage in your career,” Venus, who wears her hair like a crown, as if to underline her position as the sport's royalty, said. “I've matured, learned a lot about the game since I first won here.”

 The mighty American, the oldest player to make the quarters at Church Road since Martina Navratilova in 1994, came through 6-3, 6-2 in a little over an hour. On Tuesday, she will face her third-straight 97 born player in what will be her 100th match at   when she takes on the irrepressible French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko.
 
 Venus, a champion of some stirring wins in life, who six years ago, was diagnosed with Sjogren's syndrome, a chronic auto-immune disease, that can cause fatigue and tiredness and lead to joint and muscle pain, often without warning, negotiated her toughest opponent off the court. Forehands and backhands, whatever the pace they're struck at, must count as tame. “All of my opponents (so far in the tournament) have served amazing, hit really hard. It was great preparation for me to be able to get used to that sort of pace,” Venus said of facing Konjuh's big-hitting, all-or-nothing style of  .
 
 Venus, flaunting her own design, a classically cut one-piece, a picture of grace and defiance, is the sentimental favourite where ever she now plays. In the last-sixteen clash, she kept things tight, serving strong, finishing with seven aces and 24 winners, allowing her opponent to lapse. Typically, the American fought off a smile midway through the second set when her screaming forehand winner was met with a `I love you, Venus' shout from the crowd.
 
 In other women's fourth round matches, an upset result of sorts when Spain's Garbine Muguruza put out the world no.1   4-6, 6-4, 6-4. It was the duo's eighth meeting with the Spaniard having won the last four. The German whose form seemed to have picked up in the last two weeks of competition, failed to take control after winning the first set.
 
 Defending champion Andy Murray led the men into the last eight with a 7-6 (7-1), 6-4, 6-4 win over Frenchman Benoit Paire. Murray will face the big-serving American Sam Querrey, who put out South African Kevin Anderson 5-7, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 6-7 (11-13), 6-3. Roger Federer brushed aside Grigor Dimitrov 6-4, 6-2, 6-4 to qualify for his 50th Grand Slam quartefinal.
 
 
 
 
 Sania Mirza and Belgium's Kirsten Flipkens fell to third-seeds Martina Hingis and Jung-Jan Chan in the third round of the women's doubles. The Indo-Belgian pair went down 2-6, 4-6 in 72-minutes. India's Mahak Jain advanced to the second round of the junior girls’ singles.
 
 
