KOLKATA: At the  , over 20 Bengali feature films including ‘Alifa’, ‘Prakton’, ‘Byomkesh Pwarbo’, ‘Zulfikar’, ‘Kamalasundori’, ‘Aroni Tokhon’, ‘Chitrakar’, ‘Sahaj Pather Gappo’, ‘Antarleen’, ‘Tanzil’, ‘Benche Thaakar Gaan’, ‘Eagoler Chokh’, ‘Baje Chhobi’, ‘Nir Khonje Pakhi’, ‘Swapnosisir’, ‘Khwato’, ‘Dharasnan’, ‘Shankar Mudi’ and ‘Khonj’ had competed for the Best Bengali  . Finally, it was Kaushik Ganguly’s ‘Bisworjon’ that is going home with the National Award. Apart from the Rajat Kamal, Rs 1 lakh each will be given to the film’s producer and director. The citation describes the film as a “visual poem” that “effortlessly liquidates geographical boundaries with an eraser made of love and hope”.

 Competing nationally, there were other important contenders from Bengal both in the feature and non-feature film categories. Bengal, incidentally, threw up quite a few winners in both the sections. The Best Lyrics award was shared by Anupam Roy for ‘Tumi Jaake Bhalobasho’ from ‘Prakton’ and Vairamuthu for the song ‘Entha Pakkam’ from ‘Dharma Durai’. Roy’s citation reads that the lyrics have extolled the pathos of the situation and gelled it beautifully with the philosophy of ‘letting go’. Apart from the Rajat Kamal, there is a cash prize of Rs 50,000 for the award. This will be shared by the winners.
 
 The singer of the same song also got the Best Female Playback Singer award. Iman Chakraborty picked up her first National Award for conveying the emotion of ‘letting go’ in the most mellifluous and soothing manner. Apart from a Rajat Kamal, she will be getting Rs 50,000.
 
 In the Best Audiography section, two awards are given. One is for the Best Sound Designer. The other is for the Best Re-recordist of the final mixed track. The second award went to Alok De for the Marathi film titled ‘Ventilator’. The citation states that the film brings out a delicate balance between various spoken words and silence. Apart from a Rajat Kamal, De will also get Rs 50,000.
 
 The Best Production design award went to Tamil film titled “24”. Subrata Chakraborty, Shreyas Khedekar and Amit Ray won the award. The citation states that the “total production value of the film is more than its art effects, locations, gadgets etc, whereby giving it an organic feel”. Apart from the Rajat Kamal, the award also carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000 that will be shared by the winners.
 
 Little actors from three different films bagged the Best Child Artist award. Along with Adish Praveen from ‘Kunju Daivam’ and Manohara K. from ‘Railway Children’, Nur Islam and Samiul Alam bagged the award for ‘Sahaj Pather Gappo’. Nur and Samiul’s citation reads that they won the award for the ‘eternal and unique way of approaching life through their extraordinary performance’. This award for the Best Child Artist carries the Rajat Kamal and cash of Rs 50,000. The cash component will be shared by all the winners.
 
 Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury’s ‘Pink’ got the award for Best Film on Social Issues. The award carries a Rajat Kamal and Rs 1,50,000 each to the producer and director. The Amitabh Bachchan-starrer film has been described in the citation as one having a ‘gender neutral perspective of a social problem, which definitely needs to be addressed’.
 
 A Bengali film titled ‘Alifa’ that has been directed by Deep Choudhury has bagged the Indira Gandhi Award for Best Debut Film of a Director. The film starring Victor Banerjee, Jaya Seal Ghosh, Baharul Islam and Prasun Gayen brings out the nuances of a very complex socio-environmental problem. The award includes Swarna Kamal and Rs 1,25,000 each to the producer and director.
 
 Alumni of Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI) Haoban Paban Kumar has again bagged a National Award. ‘Loktak Lairembee’, which is directed and produced by him, has won the Best Film on Environment Conservation/Preservation. The citation states that the film brings out the nuances of an environmental issue in a heart wrenching and touching manner. The award carries a Rajat Kamal. The film’s producer and director (which in this case is Haoban Paban Kumar) gets Rs 1,50,000 each.
 
 In the non-feature film category, SRFTI alumni Jishu Sen has won the Best Editing award for ‘Gudh’. His citation mentions that Sen bagged the award for seamlessly weaving the inner worlds of a young boy’s innocence with the harsh realities of the journey he is embarking on. Apart from a Rajat Kamal, he also gets Rs 50,000.
 
 One of the two animators of the Best Animation Film ‘Hum Chitra Banate Hai’ is Shyam Sundar Chatterjee. Directed by Nina Sabnani, the film is a playfully warm story that brings to life India’s traditional art by incorporating it innovatively in animation. The award carries a Rajat Kamal and Rs 50,000 for producer, director and animator.
 
 Swati Chakraborti’s ‘I Am Jeeja’ shared the award for the Best Film on Social Issues along with Vasanth. S. Sai’s ‘Sanath’. Chakraborty’s citation states that Jeeja’s will and zest for life, despite her personal struggles, makes this simply told story a beautiful ode to life. The award for the Best Film on Social Issues carries a Rajat Kamal and Rs 50,000 each to producer and director. The cash component has to be shared.
 
 The award for the Best Environmental Film including Agriculture went to Krishnendu Bose’s ‘The Tiger Who Crossed the Line’. Bose has directed and produced the film. Describing it as a “beautifully designed film”, the citation says that it raises critical questions on the future of India’s national animal. Apart from a Rajat Kamal, the producer and director of the film will get Rs 50,000 each.
 
 Finally, the award for the Best Arts/Cultural Film was shared by Shankhajeet De’s ‘In The Shadow of Time’ and Shibu Prusty’s ‘The Lord of the Universe’. About De’s film, the citation states “in an era of animation, (this is) an important film that documents a dying art-form which is haunting, touching and kept alive through the sheer will of a community of poor puppeteers”. Apart from the Rajat Kamal, the award carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each for the producer and director. Since there are two films winning the award, the cash component has to be shared.
 
 Another Bengal connection in the non-feature category is Nirmal Chander’s ‘Zikr Us Parivashka: Begum Akhtar’. Produced by Sangeet Natak Akademi, a good part of the film was shot in Kolkata with Ranjan Palit as the cinematographer. It won the award for the Best Biographical/Historical Reconstruction. The citation states the film “uses archival recordings, recreations and interviews to take us on a touching musical journey with a lady who broke open social barriers, becoming one of India’s most legendary musical maestros”. Apart from a Rajat Kamal, the award also carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each for the producer and director.
 
