CHANDIGARH: With the intensity of his piercing gaze,   rose beyond a web of pockmarks to make it big in Indian theatre and the Hindi film industry. But for all intents and purposes, the actor, who   on Friday, did not have it easy. He was born in Ambala, into a family with limited means. The financial situation was such that his maternal relatives had to pitch in to raise him. 

 A childhood of deprivation formed the foundation of his formative years in Patiala, where his maternal uncle got him enrolled in Khalsa College. Here, he juggled academics, a job as lab attendant and theatre. 
 
 For Neena Tiwana, a resident of Sanaur and wife of thespian Harpal Tiwana, her husband’s chance discovery of a young Puri during a play became a turning point in both their lives. Puri joined  , Punjab Kala Manch and went on to become an integral part of their lives. 
 
 “His deep voice and confidence were his strengths. He did not pass up any opportunity to prove his mettle. He was introduced to us by the college principal. Despite the loss of his mother at 18, he showed tremendous courage. He lived with us for three years before being picked up by Satyajit Ray and other directors,’’ said Tiwana. 
 
 This was the beginning of Puri’s acting career, which would eventually land him in the   (NSD). 
 
 Nirmal Rishi, a theatre artist who worked with Puri in several plays, said, “He was one of the most hardworking persons. I worked with him in plays like ‘Chamkor di Gadi’, ‘Adhure Sapne’, ‘Sagar’, ‘Paap ke Prakash’, ‘Behrupia’ and ‘Tumhari Amrita’. We worked together in ‘Long da Lashkara’ in 1986. I remember him consuming himself to deliver shot and dialogues in ‘Hind Di Chaadarand Sirhind Di Deewar’.” 
 
 The National School of Drama complemented Puri’s intensity and passion. But while he was clear about his desire for an acting career, he was reluctant to settle in Mumbai. His dream was to live in Chandigarh. 
 
 Chandigarh-based theatre person Neelam Mansingh, who was his junior in National School of Drama (NSD), shared how he had been visiting Chandigarh more often in the last four to five years to visit friends and find a home for himself. 
 
 “He was very keen to settle in Chandigarh. Every time he came, he said, ‘I don’t want to settle in Mumbai.’ For the last four five years, every time he came, he would go and see these building that were coming up around Manimajra,” said Mansingh.
 
 G S Channi, another theatre personality from Chandigarh and his junior in NSD, remembered his kindness in accepting a low-budget film. “He passed out the year I joined NSD, but I knew him from Patiala, since I also belong to that city. I knew him since 1968. He was like a big brother to me. Once, I told him that I was making a film and wanted him to act in it. He asked what the budget was and I said there was no budget. Had it been someone else, it would have been a no but he said yes,” Channi said.
 
 Puri also had a soft corner for Ludhiana, where his brother used to live. S K Rai, MD (works), Hero Cycles, who was closely associated with him, said, “Om Puri was in love with the city. He had many fond memories of Ludhiana as his brother used to live here. He would come to Ludhiana on a bicycle from his ancestral village.”
 
 The veteran actor never seemed to miss the chiseled looks crafted for camera and he made that clear to his audience both in the theatre and on the big screen. But this confidence was tempered with humility. 
 
 Sunita Dhir, the actor who made her debut with Puri in the Punjabi film, Chann Pardesh, recalls how he treated his fellow actors with the respect generally reserved for a  . He was great at putting newbies at ease.
 
 “He was such a genius. He made me feel comfortable during my debut film, Chann Pardesh, where I was in the second lead with him. His first lesson was that looks should not overshadow talent. He told us how he had to struggle for six months before joining National School of Drama,’’ said Dhir.
 
 (Inputs by Manvir Saini, Kamini Mehta and Deepali Arora)
 
