CHANDIGARH: A normally stoic   couldn't hold himself back when he heard the story of an India para swimmer being stranded in Berlin (Germany) and having had to beg money to get back to India. Referring to the incident, the Olympic gold medallist wrote to Union sports minister   on Saturday, urging him to float an athletes' helpline and create a contingency fund for sportspersons - especially when they are travelling abroad to participate in global events.

 "The creation of a helpline for all athletes -especially when in a foreign country ­ to solve matters of extreme concern and having a contingency fund for unforeseen situations to provide just in time support to athletes would be a fantastic initiative to be taken up by the sports ministry," Bindra wrote in his letter.
 
 Bindra's letter comes two days after Nagpur-based para swimmer   was left to fend for herself by the   (PCI) in Berlin ­ where she was participating in the Para Swimming Championships. Kanchanmala, who is completely blind, was forced to borrow money from her fellow swimmers after the funds sanctioned by the sports ministry to PCI failed to reach her on time.
 
 Despite the odds, Pande ended up winning a silver medal in the meet and also qualified for the World Para Swimming Championships. Bindra, in the letter, highlighted Kanchanmala's plight and championed the cause of athlete management. "The recent incident of our Paralympic athlete in Berlin raises a larger question of athlete management. Things like these continue to happen in Indian sport. It leaves a bad taste and overshadows a lot of good work that is done."
 
 On Thursday, in a series of tweets, Bindra had called for action against the culprits who were responsible for Kanchanmala's unfortunate situation. "Much work to do on backing our athletes with what they need to grow and excel," he had stated in one of his tweets.
 
 Paralympic silver-medalist   also voiced concern over differential treatment meted out to para athletes. "The medal which I have bagged is also counted in mainstream sports. Our ranks are also constitutionally equal. I feel that we should be treated equally. Why is there discrimination for Paralympics athletes when both are at par in every sports policy," she questioned.
 
