The long wait for cadaver organ harvest in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai has ended as   such was kidney, cornea and liver from a brain-dead person were harvested and transplanted successfully. S Nagaraj from Perumalkovilpatti village near Nilakottai in Dindigul district was recently admitted to GRH with head injuries due to an accident. After taking the required permission from the family members, the organs were harvested. 

 GRH has become the only hospital in the southern part of Tamil Nadu to secure licence to implant organs such as heart and lungs which requires high expertise and facilities. The hospital, which already had the licence for transplanting organs such as cornea, kidneys and liver got the licence extended for heart and lungs only three months ago. Dr D Maruthupandian, Dean in-charge of GRH, said that the family members of the brain-dead patient including his five children and wife N Muthupillai readily agreed when the transplant counsellor approached them and explained its importance. 
 
 Nagaraj was travelling on an autorickshaw when he met with the accident on Friday. He was brought to the hospital the same night. While a team of doctors confirmed that the patient was brain-dead on Sunday night, Transtan – Transplantation Authority of Tamil Nadu – was alerted the same night and the harvest procedures carried out, doctors said. 
 
 Dr Maruthupandian said that two corneas, two kidneys and liver were harvested. While a kidney and both the corneas were retained by GRH, one kidney was transported to Tirunelveli medical college hospital. The liver was transplanted to a patient at a private hospital in Madurai. Doctors said the kidney retained at the GRH was successfully transplanted to a patient, while the cornea was shifted to the eye bank. 
 
 Hospital authorities lauded all the doctors behind the successful organ harvest. Earlier, doctors in the hospital had done organ transplantation once but this was the first time organs were harvested too from a brain dead person. While doctors from various departments including neurology, neurosurgery, urology and nephrology had an active role in it, the part played by anaesthesia doctors was crucial. The authorities thanked the director of anaesthesiology Dr Ganesh Prabhu and Dr Sivaprasath for their role and support. 
 
 C Anandaraj, a Madurai-based health rights activist, who was instrumental in forcing the hospital to start cadaver organ transplantation through public interest litigation, said that over 600 patients succumbed to head injuries in GRH alone in a year. There could be many brain-dead patients ready for organ donation and the potential should be tapped, he said 
 
 
