MUMBAI: Maharashtra government had alloted 230 acres in Nagpur at 75% discount to Baba Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurveda Ltd in August last year to set up a food park. The state agency, Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC), which owned the land, had also suggested extending the plot by deforesting 20 acres of Zudapi Jungle or shrub land adjoining the plot, RTI documents show. Eventually , the suggestion to include the adjoining 20 acres of shrubland was shot down.

 The suggestion was made in July 2016, a month before Patanjali won the bid to set up a food park. Zudapi Jungle is classified as a forest under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Any change in its use requires permission from the Union government.
 
 “The proposed Food, Agro and Forest based industrial park in Mihan is envisaged to be developed on an area of about 230 acres. This may go up to 250 acres subject to   of the land parcel under Zudapi Jungle which falls under the boundary of proposed project land,“ MADC managing director Vishwas Patil had said in a note to the MADC board. In fact, the advertisement inviting bids for the project on May 18, 2016 listed the area of the food park as 250 acres. In response to the note, the MADC board of directors headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said, “The Board noted the status.“
 
 This was the second time that MADC suggested deforestation for the project. In another note in March 2016, when a larger area of 376 acres was being considered for the food park, Patil had written to the board, “In this chunk of 376 acres of land, about 30 acres of land on paper is described as Zudapi Jungle and 16 acres of land covers natural water channels.Considering the nature of the land, this area is suitable for a food park and agriculture and allied activities.“
 
 However, the March 2016 meeting of the board made no reference to this proposal.When contacted, Patil said the move remained a proposal and no further action had been taken on it. “It is only a suggestion and there has been no movement on it. The suggestion had only been made because the Zudapi Jungle is right next to the plot,“ Patil said. Patanjali Ayurveda MD Acharya Balakrishna was unavailable for comment.
 
