LUCKNOW: The ruling   may have dumped its founder   but the State Assembly is going to honour him by releasing a book on his life and times and his speeches. To be released around the end of this month, the book focuses on Mulayam’s views and his crusade on varied subjects, including secularism, rural development, agriculture and farmers.

 At a time party patriarch Mulayam is going through the most humiliating phase of his political life with not even his party candidates bringing him to campaign in his constituency, Vidhan Sabha Speaker   is going to honour him by releasing his biography titled ‘Mulayam Singh Yadav 1967-2007’.
 
 “The book on Mulayam Singh Yadav is a highly researched and academic work, on the lines of Parliament and House of Commons where life and times of political stalwarts are researched and recorded by the House for educating the future generation,” said Pradeep Dubey, principal secretary of the   who had set a trend by opening a portrait gallery in the Assembly with life-size portraits of all chief ministers of the state since 1952.
 
 The book, which is going to narrate the Mulayam saga includes little known aspects of the ageing Samajwadi Party patriarch, who hailed from a humble family of farmers of Saifai in Etawah. He contested his first assembly election in 1967 and since then has never looked back, reaching to the pinnacle of his political career when he was offered the post of prime minister in the United Front government. It is said the move was scuttled by then Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav. The “dhartiputra” (son of the soil) Mulayam is credited with decimating the mighty Congress in the state and fighting against the BJP, at the risk of his political career and personal life.
 
 Despite that, Mulayam Singh Yadav remained on the forefront of national politics and in 2004, after the Congress and the BJP, his flock in the Lok Sabha was highest with 35 MPs. Mulayam has been chief minister of the state three times and spearheaded many important legislations. The book will also chronicle his views on various Bills.
 
 Mulayam’s speeches on the floor of the House since 1967 are also part of the book. The younger generation of legislators, social scientists and students of political science will find a study in his speeches on farmers’ problems, his stand on Hindi and English languages and on the socio-economic development of the minority.
 
 Most importantly, the book will throw light on his speeches on the contentious Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid issue with reference to his action against the kar sewaks to protect the disputed structure. Facing BJP and Congress on the floor of the House in the early 90s, Mulayam in the Opposition and as chief minister was heard with rapt attention by members of the Treasury and the Opposition and his actions in Ayodhya changed the course of the state’s politics.
 
 UP Assembly will released a book on the speeches and political journey of   too. The publication wing of the UP Assembly will be launching three more books. The book titled ‘Rajnaitik Dalon ka Udbhav‘ (rise of political parties), a compilation of growth of political parties in the state since 1852, ‘Uttar Pradesh Mein Sanvid Sarkaerein (coalition governments in Uttar Pradesh) about alliances since 1967 and ‘Landmark Legislations in UP Assembly’ are three books to be released along with the one on Mulayam. Talking to ToI, Pradip Dubey said all five books will provide adequate material to students of political science.
 
