CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s additional chief secretary (ACS) for home told the   and Haryana high court on Tuesday that directions have been issued to all the district authorities not to take over the school buses forcibly during the rallies. The reply from the home department came in the wake of a petition filed by the   Associations, Haryana.

 The main plea was not to call the buses from private schools, who are the members of the petitioner federation, for ferrying the general public to the rallies organized by the state government. It not only hampered the transportation of students but also put the security of the small children, who travel in these school buses, in danger, the plea said.
 
 In its affidavit filed before the HC on Tuesday, ACS (home)   also produced the copy of March 9, 2017, notification observing that forcing the management to send their buses for rallies is against the statutory provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act 1988.
 
 “Under the said act, permits are granted for specific purposes and for the specified routes. In case of any incident, the insurance companies can also not be held liable. Moreover, the interest of the students cannot be compromised by adopting such coercive methods. Therefore, it can be safely concluded that use of force/coercive method upon the management of private schools for sending their buses for the purpose of rallies should be prohibited and the schools buses of the private schools should be prohibited and the school buses of the private school should not be requisitioned for rallies and other purposes except in accordance with law,” read the notification.
 
 After the officer placed the affidavit on record, HC disposed of the matter.
 
 In this case, the federation was aggrieved from the action of the government of school buses being called by the ruling party for the rallies organized by them to show their strength to the public and buses were being used for ferrying the general public at the cost of the small children.
 
 It was further stated that the school buses are not only taken outside the permissible limit for which the route permits are being granted but also taken to other states.
 
 Federation had submitted that in October 2016, the HC had asked the state to take appropriate steps on the plea filed by Federation of Private Schools Welfare Associations, Haryana within six weeks.
 
 As the state authorities failed to decide petitioner’s representation, the federation had filed the petition seeking directions to initiate contempt of court proceedings against home secretary for not complying with HC directions.
 
