BENGALURU: It all started with   and   in 1997 for girls who had dropped out of   Twenty years on,   has ensured that food and education reach 2 lakh children through its   足  . Tejaswini Ananth Kumar chairperson and wife of Union minister Ananth Kumar, has built the organization on the principles of Anna-Akshara-Arogya (food 足education足 health). 
TOI spoke to Tejaswini on her mission to eradicate the root cause of poor education and the future of Annapoorna which was set up in 2003.
 How did the initiative take shape?
 
 Our tailoring and computer classes for dropouts got us thinking about the root cause of poor education. We learnt that many children in government schools lack nutritious food. Through our mid-day meal scheme, we wanted to provide hot, tasty and nutritious food. In June 2003, we set up a kitchen to cook for 10,000 students in four days. By November 2003, we were serving 16,000 students and by June 2004, 24,000 children. Today, we have 5 kitchens and serve over 2 lakh students.
 
 
 
 
 Serving quality meals was not enough for us. So, we set ourselves a goal 足 eliminate garbage and fossil fuels from kitchen. Vegetable peels were used in compost and coconut shells as fuel. While paper waste was sent for craftwork, water used for washing rice went to the garden. In a week, we managed to cut down from 500kg of garbage a day to zero waste.Nothing has gone from our kitchen to the municipal bin for the past 6 years. We moved to renewable fuel like bio briquettes, biogas and coconut shells, saving 15,000 LPG cylinders per year.
 
 
 
 
 The pass percentage among students increased from 30% to 90% and the number of first-rank holders rose from 70% to 94%. Incidences of anaemia reduced to 3% and protein deficiency to 5%. We also see improve ment in students' social skills, ability to engage in healthy debates on various subjects, interest in arts, etc.
 
 
 
 
 Anna-Akshara-Aarogya is an integrated approach.Our kitchen is not just a `paakashala' but also a `paathashaala' and `prayogashaala'. We also need to build confidence in children about the food they eat.We bring them to the kitchen, eat with them and let them understand the concepts of energy saving and water conservation.
 
