JAIPUR: For bolstering chances of getting admission in a better medical college, the medical aspirants from outside   procure domicile of the state.

 However, increasing number of students securing Rajasthan domicile has marred their ranking in the merit list of the state. For instance, a candidate who secured a certain percentile in National Eligibility and Entrance Test ( ) 2017 and bagged 100th rank in some other state will manage to get only 350th rank in Rajasthan.
 
 Every state prepares its own separate merit list on the basis on marks secured by candidates in NEET for counselling. If a candidate has multiple domiciles; his name is listed in the merit lists of all those states. Though his marks will remain same in all the merit lists, his ranking would differ depending on the performance of other candidates of a state.
 
 The growing culture of coaching centres is behind candidates of Rajasthan performing well in NEET-2017.
 
 However, the irony is that a candidate with dual domicile who secured “100th” rank in any other state managed to get only “350th” rank in Rajasthan in the merit list for counselling. So, he has a chance of getting a better college in other states than in Rajasthan. 
 
 In   alone, 1.25 lakh students prepare for competitive exams. There is a big chunk of students who come from other states, and get admission in Class X at Kota and prepare for competitive exams till they complete Class XII here. “If a student comes for NEET preparation and studies here for three years, he becomes eligible for domicile of the state,” Dr Pradeep Jain, chairperson, UG admission board, NEET-2017, said.
 
 In this way, a large number of NEET aspirants get state’s domicile, he added.
 
 A candidate with dual or multiple domiciles, one of Rajasthan, will be allowed to take admission in any of the state’s medical colleges.
 
 A day back, the issue of medical aspirants procuring multiple domiciles for improving their chances of getting admissions through NEET 2017, came to light. However, Rajasthan proves an exception to the rule.
 
 “We have clear-cut conditions to get admission in medical colleges. If a candidate has a domicile of Rajasthan, he will be eligible for getting admission as per the merit list with qualifying scores in NEET,” Dr Jain said.
 
 The UG admission board, NEET 2017, has already prepared a merit list for counselling.
 
 “NEET UG counselling will be conducted for admissions in all government (85% state quota including  ) and private (85% state quota and 15% management/NRI) medical and dental colleges in Rajasthan, as per the rules and regulations laid down by Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, Medical Council of India, Dental Council of India and directions from the Central government, state government, Supreme Court and  ,” the UG admission board has clarified. 
 
