GAYA: Hundreds of monks representing different foreign monasteries in Bodh Gaya and followers of different sects of Tibetan Buddhism on Wednesday joined the ‘Peace march’ in the town to mark the 2561st Buddha Jayanti, the rare coincidence of Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and salvation on the same full moon summer day.

 The shrine management committee also hosted community lunch called ‘Sanghdan’ for nearly 500 robed monks, who are mandated to take only one meal in the forenoon.
 
 A special prayer session was also organized inside the   premises to give a spiritual touch to the daylong celebrations. Governor Ram Nath Kovind was the chief guest of the main function.
 
 Monks chanted Buddhist mantras glorifying Buddha and conveyed his message of peace and universal brotherhood. Prajyana, the official souvenir published annually by the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee, was released by the governor, who also released a coffee-table book on Bodh Gaya on the occasion.
 
 Kovind, while eulogizing Buddha for his message of peace, said, “In this strife-torn world, Buddha has become more relevant and his teachings can play a big role in conflict management and dispute resolution.”
 
 Besides monks and other Buddha followers, leader of the Opposition in Bihar assembly and Gaya MLA Prem Kumar, divisional commissioner Liyan Kunga, district magistrate Kumar Ravi and SSP Garima Malik participated in the event.
 
 Neo-Buddhists led by Mahabodhi Temple’s former chief priest   organized a separate programme on the eve of  . The neo-Buddhists, besides offering prayers in the main shrine, also garlanded the statue of B R Ambedkar and 19th century Sri Lankan Buddhist missionary Angarika Dharmapala.
 
 The neo-Buddhists have been organizing separate programme for more than two decades to protest against the joint management of the main shrine. They demand an all-Buddhist shrine management committee in place of four Buddhist members in the nine-member committee having Gaya DM as the ex officio chairman.
 
 The demand for total Buddhist control over Buddha shrine was first made by Angarika Dharmapala in 1890s. Since then, a section of Buddha followers have been agitating for Buddhist monopoly in the Bodh Gaya shrine management, a demand not acceptable to Hindu outfits, including VHP and  , as they regard Buddha as a Vishnu incarnate.
 
 
