Madurai: In a bizarre  , a government bus   was killed, when he jumped off the moving vehicle in a bid to escape, anticipating an accident. The rear wheels of the   he was driving had hit the median, a few metres before an unused toll plaza, in the outskirts of Madurai city, and disconnected from the vehicle. Anticipating a major accident, the 40-year-old jumped off the bus in a bid to escape. Ironically, he landed in front of the front tyres of the moving vehicle, which eventually ran over him, killing him instantly.

 It was sheer miscalculation on the part of the driver as the vehicle came to a safe halt and all passengers escaped unhurt. With the rear wheels detached, the bus toppled as it came to a halt. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with town traffic investigating wing that is probing the matter.
 
 The driver has been identified as Suresh, 40, son of Chellaiah from Villukuri in Kanyakumari district. He was driving a government bus bearing registration number TN 74-N 1725 on Thursday morning. The ill-fated bus with around 40 passengers on board was bound for Mattuthavani in the city from Nagercoil in Kanyakumari district. The accident took place at around 7.50am, when the bus was about to pass through an unused toll collection point on Ring Road in the outskirts of the city. 
 
 Many of the passengers had been sleeping when the accident took place. Screams could be heard as the driver jumped off the bus. The shaken passengers scampered out of the bus after it came to a halt.
 
 On being informed, a police team rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the Government Rajaji Hospital. A case was registered with Town Traffic Investigation Wing under section 304 (A) – punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and 279- rash driving. 
 
 Police sources said that Suresh was speeding when the accident took place. He was trying to overtake slow-moving vehicles ahead of him, driving in the lane meant for vehicles travelling in the opposite direction. As luck would have it, a bus was approaching his vehicle at high speed. To avoid hitting the bus, he veered his vehicle. However, the rear wheels hit the median and detached from the chassis.
 
 
