PATNA: Stage has been set for the historic show of nearly 2 crore people forming an 11,292km-long   across the state for spreading awareness about de-addiction and prohibition on Saturday.

 The aura of the event can be gauged by the fact that five satellites (two satellites of ISRO for capturing images of   in Patna and three more for other districts), 38 drones (one drone in each district to make a video film of 15 minutes) and four small aircraft will be used to take aerial images during the 45-minute exercise. The Nitish government has spent funds to the tune of Rs 10 crore for the preparations of the event and almost the entire government machinery has been involved to ensure that it a huge success.
 
 Brouhaha over the involvement of schoolchildren and traffic curbs notwithstanding, the state government is quite optimistic about the grand success of the event. “We planned 2,000 people for every kilometre, even though 1,000 were sufficient. There is no chance that the chain on the main route — national and state highways — will break anywhere even if some people don’t turn up,” said a senior official in the education department.
 
 The human chain will be held from 12:45pm to 1pm on Saturday and the CM will be present at Gandhi Maidan where the participants will form a large map of Bihar. 
 
 Senior officials, including the secretary in charge of every district and ministers in charge, rushed to their respective districts by Thursday evening to look after the last-minute preparations. The government had initially planned to cover all 8,466 gram panchayats along with the formation of steering committee at panchayat, block and district levels.
 
 At least 58 lakh people will form the human chain on the main route (3,00,07km), while another 1.58 crore will form the chain on the sub-route (7,112km). The sub-route will be formed at panchayat, block and district headquarter levels and they may or may not connect to the main route. 
 
 The main route will be 1,821km-long in north Bihar, while it will 1,186km in south Bihar. The chains coming from north and south Bihar will join at the bridges over river Ganga, including Mahatma Gandhi Setu, Vikramshila Setu and Rajendra Setu. The participants in the human chain will stand on left side of the road and hold each other’s hands.
 
 To ensure proper monitoring of the chain, one supervisor will be deployed on every 200 metre and one sector in charge for every kilometre. Besides, all emergency services, including hospitals, will remain on active mode to tackle any exigency.
 
 All three members of the Grand Alliance, including the JD(U), the RJD and the Congress, will also send thousands of their workers to participate in the human chain. BJP too has extended its support for the human chain and party president Nityanand Rai has claimed that saffron party workers will participate in the chain.
 
 Guinness rejects application; bid for Limca records: Officials in the education department said the   has denied to assess the human chain for inclusion in world records owing to technical issues in monitoring the same. A team from   will, however, be in Patna on Saturday to assess the event for inclusion in its list of world records.
 
