Surat: The   ( ) is in the process of acquiring additional land from   government for future expansion of the runway. 

 Union minister of state for civil aviation   said here on Sunday, “We are in the process of acquiring land from Gujarat government. With this, the runway at Surat airport will be expanded from 2,905 metre to 3,810 metre. This will allow smooth operation of international aircraft from the airport.”
 
 Sources said the AAI requires 63 hectare land for immediate expansion of the runway up to 3,810 metre and another 800 hectare for future development of Surat airport. The AAI intends to construct parallel runway keeping a distance of 1,525 metre. The AAI is ready to spend on the expansion of Surat airport.
 
 AAI’s member finance and other officials had met chief minister   to discuss development of airports and airstrips owned by the AAI across Gujarat. The AAI officials categorically mentioned about Surat airport and immediate requirement of 63 hectare of additional land for expansion. 
 
 At present, the total airport land, which includes tarmac, runway and terminal is 317 hectare. If the state government allocates additional 63 hectare of land, the total airport area would then be around 380 hectare. The AAI has taken up expansion of the existing runway from 2,250 metre to 2,905 metre. The work is likely to be completed by May 2017. 
 
 At present, only two landings and take-offs of bigger aircraft are permitted from the airport per day, which is considered a big stumbling block for private airline companies intending to start flight services from Surat. There is, however, no cap on smaller aircraft below A319. After completion of runway extension, Surat airport will be classified as grade 4C airport. 
 
 “At present, we immediately require 63 hectare of land for airport expansion in the second phase. With land allocation, the runway will be further expanded from 2,905 metre to 3,810 metre. This will further increase the passenger capacity at airport between 25 and 30 million passengers per annum,” an AAI officer said.
 
