SHIMLA: Tightening its noose around private institutes running fashion designing courses, Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission, Shimla, has initiated action against four such institutes in the Dharamshala, Palampur, Kangra and Hamirpur areas. The   has directed them not to run any course designed without approval of any concerned authority. 

 The commission had issued directions on May 19 last year to superintendent of police of all districts seeking information on these institutes. The commission started proceedings after garnering the required information. In his judgement, Sunil Dutt, member of the commission said that fees for the courses offered and certificates issued by Swagat Education Centre, Hamirpur were at the instance of INIFD Campus Chandigarh which is neither a competent authority nor recognised to do so by any state or central regulatory authority.
 
 “Therefore, after a detailed discussion, I am of the view that the Swagat Education Centre, Hamirpur is hereby ordered not to run any certificate or diploma or degree course with the INIFD franchisee agreement or any other franchisee or its own without the prior approval of competent authorities of the state or central or regulatory bodies,” he added.
 
 On Kangra Heights Institute of Fashion and Technology, Near LIC Building Palampur and New Bus Stand Kangra, the commission observed that that the courses were being run without approval from competent authorities. Ordering the institute to close all its courses, the commission directed the institute not to conduct any educational programme without approval. 
 
 The commission instructed the managing director of the Paradise Institute of Fashion Designing near  , Civil Lines, Dharamshala, to refund the entire amount of Rs 93,900 collected from 10 students. He was further ordered to stop the course without prior approval of authorities.
 
 While hearing the case of Vector Education Society, Palampur, the commission ruled that the institute should not to accept fees fixed without approval and also stop issuing certificates designed by it.
 
