KOLKATA: Before the unified   is rolled out countrywide, the   is set to offer hotels, bars, and restaurants, and even cable operators a one-time relief to clear their pending dues. The West Bengal Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2017, which is likely to be tabled in the state assembly on Tuesday, provides these establishments to pay up 50% of the disputed tax. Any such payments, the Bill proposes, will get a waiver on penalty and interest. 

 In the GST regime, state value-added taxes, sales tax, entertainment and luxury taxes, among others, will cease to exist. 
 
 "Due to various litigations, disputes, non-payment, arrears taxes... The state exchequer owes substantial amounts under the various state laws. However, with the onset of the GST regime, and with the state tax regime defunct, the state is apprehensive it may lose these dues. Therefore, a decision has been taken to introduce the new Bill to provide a one-time relief to help mop up the pending taxes," a senior finance department official pointed out. 
 
 According to the proposed Bill, the Bengal Amusement Tax Act, 1922, the West Bengal Entertainments and Luxuries (Hotels and Restaurants) Tax Act, 1972, the  , 1982 and the West Bengal Sales Tax (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 1999, will be amended. 
 
 "While it is difficult to quantify the amount due to these state taxes as on March 31, 2017, we believe the one-time relief will convince the stakeholders to settle all pending disputes. It also augurs well under the GST regime to clear pending disputes and litigations and start afresh. For, the litigations will continue even after the  . It will be beneficial for both," reasoned an official. 
 
 "Earlier too, such measures had evoked considerable response. For example, when the KMC offered a one-time relief for pending property tax disputes," the official added. According to sources, the Bill proposes to keep this window open till June, 2017. 
 
 The application for it needs to be made in a proper format to the statutory or designated authorities claiming the relief.
 
 
