CHANDIGARH: US   major PepsiCo has announced to set up a Rs 500-crore   and soft drink   in Pathankot. This is the first big project by a foreign national in the recent years in Punjab.

 The state government is hoping that would lift industry sentiments in the debt-ridden Punjab that has largely seen shutdown of units and flourishing of sand and mining mafia in the past few years
 
 A PepsiCo delegation, led by its chairman & CEO India Region Shiv Shivakumar and vice-president (global procurement) V D Sharma, met chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday to discuss major expansion and investment plans in the state.
 
 The company, which already has Asia’s largest potato minituber lab in Zahura in Hoshiarpur district and a state-of-the-art bulk storage in the state, has offered technical support to the Congress government to develop Punjab as a premium citrus fruit producing state.
 
 “In this project, PepsiCo will now help realize the government’s vision of farm diversification to steer farmers from paddy cultivation to the cash-rich citrus fruits,” said Amarinder.
 
 Horticulture specialist James H Keithly from USA, who was also part of the PepsiCo delegation, unveiled a five-year plan for the production of high-yielding quality processing varieties of citrus plants at Jallowal nursery in Hoshiarpur.
 
 The delegation showed interest in collaborating with the state government to revive the horticulture project initiated during Amarinder’s previous tenure, besides exploring the possibility of sourcing citrus fruits for their juices and concentrates from the state.
 
 Total 1,125 acres of area would be covered under the citrus plantation across the state. According to the plan, 55 acres would be brought under plantation of citrus plantation varieties of Kinnow, Daisy and W Murcott. In 2018, 170 acres would be brought under Carrizo, JattiKhatti and Carrizo rootstock liners. Likewise, 300 acres of area would be brought under Carrizo, JattiKhatti and Volk liners during 2019, 2020, and 2021, to expand the ambit of citrus cultivation in order to tap the land potential in the state.
 
 The chief minister, while reiterating his government’s commitment to farm diversification to improve the lot of the state’s beleaguered farming community, directed additional chief secretary, horticulture, Himmat Singh to work out the modalities for the citrus project in collaboration with PepsiCo.
 
 The chief minister urged the delegation to further explore opportunities for the farmers of south Punjab to be a part of the project while directing the horticulture department to give liberal subsidies for schemes like drip irrigation. He also asked the department to prepare a comprehensive action plan to adequately enhance the capacities of the two existing Punjab Agro juicing plants, at Abohar and Hoshiarpur, to meet the juicing demands of PepisCo.
 
 Amarinder directed the CEO Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion to make the proposed new industrial policy conducive to the juicing industry to enable the state’s farmers to reap the maximum benefit by getting a remunerative price for their crop. He also asked the principal secretary to take up the matter of ensuring eight hour uninterrupted power supply to the orchards with the chairman-cum-managing director, Punjab State  
 
