Hyderabad: With the Union government pushing the auto industry to switch to e-vehicles, the state government, along with T-Hub, on Friday launched the Smart Mobility and Transportation Cluster at the   premises in Hyderabad to help the existing automobile ecosystem players to adopt as well as push for innovation in the sector.

 According to T-Hub CEO Jay Krishnan, the cluster will enable stakeholders such as startups and automobile companies to harness, build, design, test and develop cutting edge innovation in autonomous vehicle (AV) technology, vehicle electrification and the area of shared mobility.
 
 “Urban mobility has opened up a lot of entrepreneurial opportunities. We will invite startups from across the globe in the transportation space, both from the demand and supply side, to help come up with innovative solutions and ideas. The ecosystem with a number of stakeholders, that includes governments, startups, infrastructure, academia, corporates and investors, shall become a hub for innovation in the transportation space and change the future of mobility radically.”
 
 He also indicated that in the coming days T-Hub will be entering into agreements with many industry players, who will be working in the cluster. 
 
 Speaking at the launch of the cluster, Telangana IT department principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan pointed out that in order to promote e-vehicles, the state government will be coming out with a dedicated policy in the next one to two months. 
 
 As part of the policy, the Telangana government plans to provide individuals, who go for e-vehicles, certain incentives such as free parking but the final details are still being worked out with other departments.
 
 Ranjan said that in order to push e-vehicles, it will be important to introduce the concept first in the public transportation segment. To start with, the last mile connectivity at metro stations will be taken care by e-vehicles and the state government is in talks with cab aggregators such as Ola for this service. 
 
 He said the next step will be to go for e-autorickshaws but for that the government will have to tweak the existing rules that currently allow only individual ownership of autorickshaws.
 
 
