KOLKATA: At the heart of the sprawling 64 bighas of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur, is a page from history lying in silent neglect.   has now decided to focus on the derelict Bishop’s College, planning on restoring the chapel and the adjacent college building and creating a heritage zone on campus, complete with a light-and-sound show. 

 The institute is in the process of approaching conservation experts to assess the condition of the heritage structures and estimate the cost of restoration. It has already had preliminary talks with Bishop Ashoke Biswas for his opinion on how the chapel’s original interiors looked. “Though it will no longer be a church where services will be held, the structure is of immense historical significance and is a Grade-I heritage complex. What perhaps adds to its heritage setting is the fact that the buildings lace the Oval cricket field, which is a replica of the original in London. The field was prepared for cricket by the British because they thought that the breeze from the Hooghly would swing the ball like it happens at the Oval,” explained vice-chancellor Ajay Kumar Ray. 
 
 Ray has asked assistant registrar Bibhor Das to prepare a historic outline of the heritage complex to be presented to the alumni so that they can help with the funds. The institute is also in touch with professional groups that have helped set up light-and-sound shows in Kolkata. 
 
 “The story will definitely have vignettes from the lives of Reverend Krishnamohan Banerjee and Michael Madhusudan Dutt,” Das added.
 
 Ray, who was originally a faculty member of IIT Kharagpur, said this would be a wish fulfilment because he had planned a similar light-and-sound show for the Hijli jail on the Kharagpur campus. 
 
 Bishop’s College dates back to 1820, when the sprawling Gothic structure, built as a replica of the Hampton Court in London, stood so prominently on the brink of the Hooghly on the Howrah side that no one missed it from the opposite bank. In fact, Bishop’s College was the subject of many British paintings and sketches by masters, including Charles D’Oyly. This was where the first bishop of Calcutta, Thomas Middleton, lived and also the first place for Christian theological education. 
 
 In 1880, the college shifted to AJC Bose Road and the Bishop’s house was moved to Jawaharlal Nehru Road. The building in Shibpur was used by the British for the  , which was first named Government College, Howrah, and then  , Shibpur. During its heydays, Bishop’s College saw luminaries like Reverend Banerjee, one of the first Bengali converts who became a priest in 1837 and taught here between 1852 and 1865. Michael Madhusudan Dutt was baptized in the chapel here after he left home and enrolled as a student in the college. He lived here between 1843 and 1847. Even after the college and Bishop’s House shifted out of Shibpur, the chapel continued to serve the teachers at the engineering college. After Independence, the chapel was abandoned and has remained like that since. 
 
 
