NAGPUR: In what can be termed as a blatant violation, the Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Limited ( ) has started to dig 145-year-old embankment of Ambazari lake for construction of metro rail station without taking permission from the   (NMC) and state government. Also, the metro rail developer has continued the works despite objections raised by the civic body.

 Constructed during British era in 1872, around 700-meter embankment ends up on road connecting   road with South Ambazari road. The NMRCL has started construction of metro rail station in over 200 meter length stretch covering some area of embankment and an open space at the bottom of embankment since over last two months.
 
 The NMRCL has dug up embankment in a long stretch and even excavated stones from it. Few trees have been uprooted from the embankment.
 
 The NMC sent a letter to NMRCL on January 20 asking to stop the works with immediate effect. “Any construction is not permitted within 200 meters of embankment as per the state government’s norms. Engineers from Dams Safety Organization, Nashik, have informed NMRCL engineers about the norms. Still, the construction works are going on and no permission is obtained from the NMC and also state government,” the NMC said.
 
 The NMC added NMRCL also damaged water pipeline coming from the lake causing water leakage that requires immediate repair. “NMRCL should stop all construction activities being undertaken within 200 meter from embankment. NMRCL should seek NOC from Dams Safety Organization and then government for safety of the embankment,” the NMC said.
 
 Though construction activities are restricted within 200 meters, the works are going on right on the embankment and immediate adjacent to it.
 
 The NMC is owner of the lake and some open space adjacent to the embankment falls under the NIT. The NMRCL obtained leader of open space from the NIT. At the same time, the NMRCL sought NOC from the NMC in January 2016.
 
 The NMC wrote a letter to water resources department that suggested to approach Dams Safety Organization. Then the NMC contacted Dams Safety Organization that recommended some measures in October last year after inspection of the embankment.
 
 NMC chief engineer   told TOI that NMRCL officials were asked to approach VNIT and comply with the points raised by Dams Safety Organization. “NMRCL will submit the compliance with the NMC. Also, NMRCL will seek NOC from Dams Safety Organization and permission from the government. NMRCL will have to continue with the works only after ensuring all these measures,” he said.
 
 As per NMC’s letters, the NMRCL neglected all these measures and dug up the embankment.
 
 NMRCL official said process to dress up embankment is going on. “NMRCL will ensure all safety precautions.”
 
 
