JAISALMER: The regular  , which was to start from February 20, has once again delayed due to   company and air force. The air force has refused to give clearance to the airlines company for not fulfilling the conditions of passengers’ safety and prescribed standards. 

 The Supreme Airlines, on the contrary, has alleged that air force had not given clearance purposefully and has sought reply by sending notice to air force for delaying their scheduled flight operation from February 20. The airlines has threatened air force for taking legal action if the latter don’t reply within 24 hours. 
 
 The Jaisalmer airport is lying ready for four years, and Supreme Airlines had announced to start air service between Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Jaipur from February 20 and even website bookings were also started for the said purpose.
 
 Officers of airlines and airport author were talking about the first will reach Jaisalmer on Monday and tour operators and agents were excited to welcome passengers of the first flight. Even after waiting for hours, the flight, which was to land in Jaisalmer at 11.55pm from Jodhpur, didn’t arrive and it was announced later that there was no flight on Monday. 
 
 According to airlines company, the flight arrived in Jodhpur and was about to take off for Jaisalmer when ATS Jaisalmer informed that flight plan has not been cleared and therefore, it was stopped. Supreme Airlines   wrote on social media that without telling any reason, ATS did not give clearance and notice has been sent to ATS. 
 
 It has been mentioned in the notice that air force had given interim permission on January 9, although local air force administration didn’t give final clearance. In his notice, Agarwal the company has suffered a loss in form of subsidy of Rs 56,000 from state government and Rs 52,000 from the bookings of 16 passengers.
 
 On the other hand, air force said the private airlines did not fulfill the aircraft and passenger security. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said looking onto incomplete administrative coordination of concerned airlines and for not fulfilling aircraft and passenger security, the permission was not granted. 
 
 Ojha further said Indian Air force is a responsible institution and this decision has been taken considering passenger safety as top priority. A private airline operator who had sought permission to operate a non-scheduled flight to Jaisalmer could not be permitted due to failure on his part to fulfill requisite conditions pertaining to safety of aircraft and passengers as per the laid down guidelines on subject and non-coordination of ground logistics prior to flight operation.
 
 Director of Airport Authority of India (AAI), Jodhpur,  , “The issue is between air force and airlines. We have cleared it on our part. We will sort out this matter soon.”
 
