GURUGRAM:   on Thursday arrested one of its men, along with another person, on charges of intimidation and land-grab bid. More than six people have been booked in the case, including jailed gangster  .

 Cops swung into action after Rakesh Kumar, a resident of  , complained to the police commissioner that Raj Kumar, a resident of Wazirabad village, tried to usurp a plot of land that he bought from the latter near Sector 45 for Rs 20 lakh.
 
 Rakesh alleged he bought the land from Raj after paying the final instalment of Rs 10 lakh last year, but the latter declined to get the plot registered in his name and recently even asked him to vacate it.
 
 In his complaint, Rakesh said that when he refused to vacate the land on which he runs an eatery, he got a threat call from Manjeet. And when he went to the Sector 53 police station to lodge a complaint against Raj and Manjeet, ASI Raj Singh, who also happens to be the uncle of slain   Mahesh Attack, allegedly threatened to eliminate him in a fake encounter if he did not vacate the plot.
 
 “On June 25, Raj Kumar came to my eatery, along with an accomplice Devender, and asked me and my business partners to vacate the plot. They threatened to kill us if we did not follow their orders. Two days later, I got a threat call from Manjeet. On June 30, Manjeet again threatened to kill me if I did not vacate the land,” Rakesh said in his complaint.
 
 The victim told the police commissioner that when he went to Sector 53 police station to lodge a complaint, ASI Raj Singh threatened to get him killed in a fake encounter in front of the SHO and other policemen.
 
 On the police commissioner’s directions, an FIR has been registered against more than six people, including Manjeet, ASI Raj Singh and the plot owner, under sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Sector 53 police station. “We have arrested two accused, including the ASI, and efforts are on to nab others,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 When contacted, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI, “This kind of involvement of a cop and a gangster is surprising. The cop has been arrested and we are verifying his role in the entire case. If he is found involved in the same, strict action will be taken against him.”
 
