PUNE: Almost 40% of Pune's drinking water is lost to leakage, pilferage and wastage through uncontrolled stand posts.Water supply lines are rusted and there is no system to calculate the city's water usage.But the civic budget instead of addressing these basic issues has proposed a project where water from Kundalika river in the Konkan region will be lifted and brought to the city via the   dam.

 “The old water supply lines are rusted and require repairs.PMC lacks a system to control water supply . The meters are faulty and the absence of supply data makes it difficult to calculate water usage,“ Pune Municipal Corporation's ( ) Environment Status Report (ESR) said The civic body has no maps of the old pipeline network.“The total wastage in the supply system is 20%, of which 12% is due to problems in the distribution system and 8% is wasted during treatment,“ the   added.
 
 However, politicians are not interested in looking into the basic issues.   chairman   said the city will need water to avoid cuts. “The new project will help the city get about 1to 1.5 TMC water. We are looking at the speedy completion of Bhama Askhed project to draw water from it,“ he added.
 
 The PMC has made the initial provision of Rs 1 crore for Kundalika project and Rs 5 crore for Bhama Askhed in 2017-18 draft budget.
 
 The actual cost of the Kun dalika project would run into hundreds of crores of rupees as the PMC plans to lift water from the river and channel it into the Varasgaon dam.   admitted that the PMC has not done any study before proposing the project in the budget.
 
 “ It is just another fancy project. Even if the PMC decides to go ahead with it, it will have a huge environmental impact and incur a massive cost. The irrigation department will not agree to the project as the PMC is using more water than the stipulated quota,“ a senior irrigation department official said. He added that against the allocated quota of 11.5 TMC the civic body uses about 16 TMC water every year.
 
 “Politicians want big projects as they are more interested in the tendering system and money involved in it. Common people hardly benefit from these projects. They don't want to address basic issues as there is no money involved in addressing small, effective measures,“ senior citizen Balaji Kelkar said.
 
 For the last ten years, the city has been facing a water crisis in summer.
 
 Over the last few years, citizens have had to cope with water cuts. Despite this, the PMC has not taken up initiatives to resolve the crisis.
 
 On the contrary , it has resorted to temporary measures, irrigation department officials said.
 
 The department has brought it to the notice of the state government that the four dams also cater to the irrigation needs of 74,071 hectare in Velhe, Haveli, Daund, Indapur, Baramati and Purandar.
 
