NEW DELHI: In a ruling that may force manufacturers to improve their safety track record of defence equipment, the Delhi high court on Tuesday held the government and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd ( ) liable for injuries received by an   pilot in an air crash.

 The pilot,  , was rendered unfit to fly after his MiG-21 developed a snag mid-air and crashed. He suffered debilitating wounds while trying to save a village in   from the crashing jet in 2005, ejecting at the last moment.
 
 Asking Centre and HAL to compensate Kalia, a bench of Justices S   and   on Tuesday observed that officers of the armed forces cannot be put to “more risk than they had bargained for“, and directed the Centre and the   aircraft manufacturer to pay Rs 5 lakh and Rs 50 lakh respectively .
 
 In his plea filed through advocate Bharat S Kumar, Kalia, who is a serving wing commander, focused on fixing accountability on HAL and government for handing him a defective jet that led to the crash and left him with debilitating neck and back pain.
 
 He submitted that the intent behind filing the petition was to ensure that “HAL is made accountable and aware of the ramifications of their actions, impacting the security of this country .“ MiG-21s are notorious for their poor safety track-record and have been derided as “flying coffin“ and “widow maker.“
 
 Kalia also sought directions to the government and HAL to issue a formal apology for alleged manufacturing defect and faulty workmanship of the MiG-21fighter jet.
 
 The HC concurred and held that putting officers of the armed forces into more than expected “normal risk“ is against the fundamental right to life, especially the right to work in a safe environment guaranteed under the Constitution. It held HAL liable to compensate the officer for “exposing him to more than a reasonable risk.“
 
 “Immediately after take off, the petitioner experienced a drift to the left side of the aircraft. Simultaneously , the petitioner was informed by a pilot flying the second aircraft about a fire at the jet's rear end. Assessing the emergency , the petitioner promptly carried out all essential directives and lowered the landing gear of the aircraft for a landing,“ Kalia's petition said.
 
 “Despite a near-complete enginecontrol failure and at grave risk to his own life, the petitioner continued to stay put in an almost uncontrollable aircraft so as to steer it away to safety from a nearby village... to save human life, the petitioner ejected only seconds before the crash,“ it said.
 
  claimed that despite sending a representation to the government on December 25, 2012, seeking justice by compensating him for the loss suffered by as a result of the air crash, no response was given by the government.
 
