CHENNAI: In a bid to decongest arterial stretches in the city’s suburbs, the state   has proposed to widen four major roads in the metropolis. The move comes in the wake of the rapid urbanisation in the suburbs over the last few years leading to congested roads and an increase in the number of accidents.

 Finance minister D Jayakumar made this announcement in this regard while presenting the state budget in the assembly on Thursday.
 
 A senior highways official said the Kodambakkam-Sriperumbudur, Tambaram-Mudichur-Sriperumbudur and Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam roads and the link between Poonamallee bypass and Mount Poonamallee High Road were proposed to be widened.
 
 The project is estimated to cost Rs 169 crore, while the department sent a proposal for widening roads over a distance of 141.6km at an estimated Rs 744 crore, the official said.
 
 The Kodambakkam-Sriperumbudur Road and the Tambaram- Mudichur-Sriperumbudur Road currently had only two lanes. Given that vehicular movement along these stretches had increased tremendously over the past few years, it had been proposed to make them four-lane roads, he said.
 
 Similarly, vehicular movement on the four-lane 200 ft Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road, a portion of which runs along the ecologically sensitive Pallikaranai marsh, had increased phenomenally over the years as had traffic on the four-lane stretch of road connecting Poonamallee Bypass Road and Mount Poonamallee Road. Widening these roads into six-lane stretches would go a long way in reducing congestion, he added.
 
 The Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Road has reduced the travelling time between many south Chennai areas and suburban localities like Kilkattalai, Pallavaram and Tambaram and also made travel to the airport easier. However, it is for this very reason that it has become impossibly crowded, particularly during the rush hour. 
 
 The highways has also proposed to widen the road between Madurantakam and Tiruporur, aimed at making life easier for people travelling from the state’s southern destinations to places such as Thiruvanmiyur, Besant Nagar and Adyar. The present two-lane stretch is proposed to be made into a four-lane road. 
 
 Some of the other stretches line up for conversion into four- lane roads include the Walajahbad-Sunguvarchatram- Keelacheri Road, Sadras-Chengalpet-Kancheepuram Road, Arakkonam-Tiruttani Road, Singaperumalkoil- Sriperumbudur Road and and Tiruvallur-Red Hills Road.
 
 Similarly, the Chennai-Chitoor-Bengaluru Road will also be made into a six-lane stretch, the official added.
 
