

  
 
 
  CPI has fielded six candidates in this election and we have a chance in five seats. I am very optimistic. Besides, we have formed a pre-poll alliance of Left and democratic parties called Left and   (LDF). This is a model in line with Kerala and Tripura. 
 
  
  
 
  There are three reasons for our electoral failure. People had wanted CPI to withdraw support from the Congress-led government when police commandoes killed a reformed militant and a pregnant woman in   in a fake encounter in 2009. Our party didn't withdraw support from the government though I resigned as convener of the ruling Secular Progressive (SPF) where CPI was also a partner. 
 
  We should have withdrawn from the government. The second reason is the Left parties didn't have muscle and money power. The election is a major reason of corruption. Thirdly, the present electoral system of 'first past the post', which we inherited from the British, is not suited for a party like us. 
 
  
 
 
  We are very concerned over the rise of right reactionary forces like BJP and RSS in the state. The society in Manipur is traditionally progressive and secular. The rise of the right wing party will affect the secular and democratic fabric of our society. This is bad for the state's future. The LDF, which we formed, is an alliance of non-Congress and non-BJP parties. We are exploring the new possibility of forming a third alternative. LDF is just the beginning, it is a new political movement. 
 
  
  
 
  We feel BJP is much more dangerous. There is a big possibility of a hung assembly this time and there will be a sizeable number of non-BJP, non-Congress MLAs. If CPI wins, we will surely try to prevent the communal forces from coming to power. 
 
  
 
 
  We are for an alternative policy. Safeguarding Manipur's territorial integrity is not only about possession of land but also the unity of its people. Integrity and unity is our main thrust. Our priority will be development, which is inclusive. 
 
  
 
 
  In earlier elections, we have fielded candidates in the hill districts. But we could not field any candidate this time because of some 'unseen factors'. 
 
