The evening of May 17 saw an unusually cheerful sunset bathed in rainbow colours. Boat club road, which has seen a myriad of events in the city, turned out to be the cynosure of gaiety as people from all walks of life gathered there to support to the   community. Rainbow colours flowed on the streets as participants from   as well as cities like Chandrapur, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and Indore turned up in large numbers, dressed up in multihued costumes and catchy props with slogans like ‘I’m Gay and it’s okay!' while walking on the 3 kilometer lakeview boulevard.
 
  
 
 According to organisers, this pride march was the first of many such events to come. An elated Kokila Bhattacharya, key organiser of the event, who could not stop herself from grinning from ear to ear looking at the turnout, informed, “It has been a tremendous success. We were hesitant and had vague plans, but with participants coming down from all over the country, the event took shape on its own. We’re extremely happy with the support from locals too; it is a big deal for a city like Bhopal.”
 
  
  Organisers Kokila and Shubham
 
 
 The generally peaceful march filled with spontaneous outbursts of songs like “Hum HonGay kamyab” and “Koi Kahe kehta rahe jitna bhi humko deewana” was supervised by a bemused force of Bhopal Police. The participants danced, hugged and made merry on the streets to send a message of love and acceptance.  , who has been travelling all over the world to participate in as many pride events as possible, came all the way from Kolkata to join the   too. He said, “This is my eighth Pride and I am really happy to see the colourful participants in the city of lakes. It is more important for smaller cities like Bhopal to extend public support to the local LGBTQ community. It will help more people to come out and embrace their sexuality.” 
 
  
  Venkatesh from Kolkata
 
 
 Aditya Bondyopadhyay, the celebrated queer lawyer who drafted the petition challenging Section 377, came for the event all the way from Delhi. “It is amazing that the march was held on International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia. I hope the people of the city keep extending support to the community,” she said. Similarly,  , a gender right activist and first transgender woman to foray into mainstream cinema shared, “With this pride we are making a statement of being equal. I am hoping in the next decade, we (transgenders) will eventually come out from being beggars and sex workers to scientists, doctors or working professionals in general. Life is changing, let’s all be proud of who we are."
  
  Kalki Subramaiam
 
 
 Viktoria Baskin, a PhD scholar from Australia whose research is based on trans-activism had also flown down to document central India's first pride event shared, "I have been travelling to all pride events in the country and abroad. Bhopal Pride has been a different experience altogether, with so much love and colours flowing incessantly around such a beautiful location. I hope the message gets ingrained with the locals here."
  
  
 
 There was love and joy in the air, which was further enhanced by the grand costumes of some participants who went that extra mile to drive the point of home of “freedom from oppression”. Sameer Deshpande from Chardrapur dressed up in pristine white to symbolise peace, 
 
  
  
 
 
 while Sumit Pawar went all out with blings and a grand Maharaja drape. 
 
  
  
 
 Ram Rao from Chennai, another regular at most of the pride walks coloured his beard in a glittery rainbow to show support.
  
  
  
 
 
 Members from the   community Devi, Sanjana and Leena came out with their spouses and partners to mark the occasion by making their relationship public. 
 
  
  
 
 While dancing in joy with her new found freedom Leena exclaims, “Ab nahi toh kab! I am overwhelmed to see so many supporters from Bhopal and other places who have come here specially to be the voice for us. This is one step closer to our right to love for us.”
 
  
  
 
  Apart from the members of LGBTQ, local straight people came out on the streets to support their friends. Neha Rai and second year student from NIFT came with a huge group of friends to support their close friend, inspite having exams the next day, “This was very important to our friend who is gay, so it is equally important for us too. So we are here to support not just him, but the entire community and give them the right to their body, their love and sexuality.”
 
  
  
  
 Once the parade culminated at the Ranjit parking, incessant dancing and cheering marked a jubilant end to the festival of love that Bhopal Pride was.
 
  
  
 Lot of locals came out in support of the pride event, glimpses from the event show the same.
 
 
 
  Director of Alliance Francaise Bhopal, Patricia Poupon and friends
 
  
  
 Poster girl making a statement
 
  
  
 
 Suruj Rajkhowa, a theatre artiste, being his colourful self
 
 
  
  
 
 Mangalwara ladies leading the brigade
 
  
  
 
