CHARMINAR: There appears to be no clarity as to when the Telangana State Minorities Commission-the panel which looks into grievances of those belonging to religious minorities-will be reconstituted.

 What has complicated the issue is the tug-of-war between the government and   over the body's tenure. At a time when the government has reconstituted the   and appointed   as chairman of the Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation, the delay in reconstitution of the minorities commission is glaring.
 
 According to sources, the government had instructed the secretary of the Minorities Welfare Department   to send a list of nominated posts within various agencies. Details pertaining to the commission were also sent. However, no nominations to the body were made.
 
 Sources also said that Khan had sent a letter to Jaleel through an officer of special duty of the commission, expressing his desire to discharge his duties as chairman of the commission. But the government has taken a strong stand opposing it.
 
 Confirming the developments, Minorities Welfare Department secretary Syed   said, “We are treating the term of the commission as ended. Files have been circulated giving the number of nominated posts of each body . This includes that of the State Minorities Commission. There is no law which provides that the previous members, including the chairman, can continue to function.“
 
 Commission staff have been instructed not to permit any unauthorised persons to function as members.“The reconstitution of the commission is now up to the government,“ Jaleed added.
 
 Officials said that while Khan had dragged the government to court contending that the commission cannot be stopped from functioning, a counter has been filed in the High Court stating that the commission's term has ended. “No unauthorised person can work at the commission,“ Jaleel said.
 
 It was earlier reported in these columns that the Abid Rasool Khan led commission was sent a notice to vacate   at Raj Bhavan Road, which served as its office. In what is construed by several activists and socio-religious organisations as a snub, the government later moved the commission to government quarters, a much smaller structure in Erramanzil.
 
 After the relocation of the commission, several organisations organised protest meetings and questioned the move. Activists had claimed that due process of law was not followed and sought to know the status of the cases which the panel had taken up after the date of its expiry.
 
