NEW DELHI: Nearly a decade after the   began in 2010 on a mission mode and after having spent close to Rs 1,000 crore, only four high courts in the country have allowed online e-filing of cases. 

 Barring Delhi, Bombay, MP and Punjab & Haryana high courts, online e-filing facility has not been started by other HCs.
 
 According to a statement by minister of state for law P P Chaudhary last week, e-filing of soft copy along with physical copy is being carried out only in the high courts of Delhi, Bombay, Punjab & Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.
 
 There are 24 HCs in the country. Most of the 18,000 functional courts in the country have been computerised, including all subordinate and district courts. 
 
  was initiated by the government in 2010 on a mission mode to be supervised by an apex court e-courts committee to simplify procedures and expedite justice delivery.
 
 The purpose seems to have been defeated with very few courts adopting even the basics of the digitisation features of the proposed eCourts project — e-filing and   being some of them.
 
 This despite the fact that one of the prominent reasons for long and repeated adjournments of cases has been summons not being served. Phase-I of the eCourts project was approved in 2010 with a project cost of Rs 935 crore. 
 
 At a total expenditure of Rs 639 crore during this phase that ended in March 2015, about 13,670 district and subordinate courts were computerised. 
 
 By this time, the   and most HCs had completed its  . Phase II of the eCourts project began in July 2015 with the objective of enabling district and subordinate courts to adopt digitisation.
 
 The government has allocated Rs 1,670 crore for the second phase and has already released Rs 475 crore, the minister said.
 
 As part of computerisation of courts, it has been proposed to assess the causes of delay and repeated adjournments, making it mandatory for each judge to record the reasons for adjournments.
 
 In Phase-II of e-Courts, the government had also proposed to include audio-video recording of proceedings as that would help discourage retractions by witnesses.
 
