By: 
 

 At least 70 carcasses of   were found at the Davanagere city corporation   in   on Sunday morning. An autopsy was conducted by a four-member team of   attached with the district animal husbandry and veterinary services.
 
 Most of the carcasses were found with the hind limbs and neck bound with metal wires, indicating that the dogs could have been buried alive in the dump yard.
 
 Vets said the carcasses were highly decomposed but they had collected samples for forensic analysis.
 
 An FIR was registered based on a complaint from Joshine Antony, an animal rights activist attached with Dhyan Foundation. As per the FIR, the animals were killed on April 4.
 
 Senior city corporation officials claimed they had ordered for the culling of some of the “ferocious dogs” in their limits, insisting that they were put to sleep in a “humane manner”. The case has been registered at the Davanagere Rural Police Station against four labourers, corporation officials and the health inspector under sections of Prevention of Cruelty to animals and criminal conspiracy.
 
 “We have collected samples from kidney, liver and other vital organs of the animals and have sent these for analysis,” said Dr TH Shankarappa, Assistant Director, Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, Davanagere.
 
 The officials started digging out the carcasses using earthmovers at around 9 am on Sunday and the operation went on till about 3 pm. The process was initiated after Antony filed the police complaint. A few of the local residents had reportedly spotted the civic body workers taking these dogs to the dump yard in Avaragolla village on multiple occasions last week.
 
 “They informed us and we rushed to the spot. It was pointed out that some of the dogs were alive when actively implementing the Animal Birth Control (ABC) program but had to put down the ferocious ones after there were about 12 dog attack cases in the last three months.
 
 “We had to depute people from our department to cull some of the ferocious dogs to ensure safety of the people. The rest are being sterilised. Some people are creating issues. We did it in a humane manner,” said Ravindra.
 
 Antony, meanwhile, wanted to know how the civic officials had identified the “ferocious” dogs and also how they were put to sleep.
 
 “They have dug out 70 dog carcasses on Sunday. We are waiting for the forensic and post mortem reports,” said Kiran Kumar, Inspector, Davanagere Rural Police Station.
 
 While hearing petitions from Kerala where mass culling of stray dogs was being carried out in the name of public safety, the Supreme Court had ruled in January that stray dogs had the right to live. The apex court had also clearly stated that the central and state agencies should coordinate and ensure the success of ABC programs instead of resorting to mass killing of dogs.
 
 
