NAGPUR: Well-known film director Ramesh Sippy, who made the 1975 classic Sholay, was on Friday conferred with the   Film Festival (OCIFF) award for  . 

 Speaking at the inauguration ceremony of OCIFF at Persistent Systems, IT Park, Sippy, said, “I’m happy to be a part of the cinema world and a new chapter has begun in Nagpur,” he added.
 
 “Cinema is a great mind opener. It allows one to interpret to either appreciate or criticize. As a child I used to see films and say, ‘I’m going to try,” he added
 
 Orange City Cultural Foundation Award, which is given to exemplary artistes of Nagpur, went to playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar.
 
 Elkunchwar recounted his scriptwriting stint for two movies based on his plays and returning to Nagpur. “Nothing is more beautiful than Nagpur”, he said, adding, “Good films are being brought to Nagpur since 1978 when the first film society was formed. The difference is, we have to go knocking people’s door asking them to register, whereas in Pune, you’ll see about 500 registration in 10 minutes.”
 
 The inauguration began with a Kathak tandav by city’s Kathak exponent Priyanka Abhyankar and her dance troupe. Addressing the gathering, Chandrashekhar Meshram organizing secretary said, “The idea started a year ago when Jabbar Patel expressed his desire to have a film festival in Nagpur. We accepted the challenge and this led to the formation of Orange City Cultural Foundation. There is a lot of talent in the city and we want to stimulate the thinking process of youngsters. This is the beginning of a cultural movement.”
 
 Patel, director of the festival, said, “Young minds should be exposed to the best of cinema. Marathi cinema is evolving and being noted by prominent personalities.” Patel, who has been organizing   (PIFF) for the past 15 years, said 30 best films from PIFF were selected to be showcased in Nagpur.
 
 This year, they are also organizing a film festival in Solapur. The inauguration was followed by screening of the German seaside comedy, Ma Loute (2016).
 
 The festival started at   in the morning and saw film enthusiasts come together. The OCIFF brochure was released at PVR Empress by Sippy, Patel, Meshram, film writer Rajesh Mapuskar, writer Abhijeet Ranadive, secretary general of Film Federation of India Suprant Sen, Cinema manager of PVR Nagpur Arif Baig, and filmmaker Samar Nakhate.
 
