NASHIK: With the 50-day deadline of depositing demonetised currency notes in the banks coming to an end, most of the Automated Teller Machines (ATM) in the city remained functional on Saturday.

 Until now, only some of the   (SBI)   were dispensing cash after the government announced   on November 8, 2016.
 
 Despite being Saturday and New Year’s Eve, there were no beelines outside ATM kiosks and people were happy to receive currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 100 denominations.
 
 “The ATMs of all major banks were open on Saturday and there was no rush. We could withdraw our money easily. Only few small banks and cooperative banks kept their ATMs closed,” said Piyush Ranadive, a marketing executive.
 
 City resident   said she was surprised the ATMs were not crowded as expected. “I was the second person at an ATM centre near my house. I thought people would queue up at all the ATMs since they were rushing to the banks for withdrawing money since November 9, but was surprised to see there was no rush at the ATMs or banks though it was weekend and New Year’s Eve,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, bank officials said there was no rush at the branches. “We may see some rush in the banks and ATMs in the beginning of next week for withdrawal of salaries,” said a senior official from Bank of Maharashtra.
 
 Rahul Porje, public relations officer with a private firm, said he preferred online transactions. “It is good to see people go digital. Many prefer card payments now and with many shops installing swipe machines things have become easier. I have also taught my parents to make payments through cards. Cheques are also being accepted by many people. But Nashik has a long way to go as except card payments there are not many people using other digital platforms like Paytm or Mpesa,” he said.
 
 He said “Since the past 8-10 days, there has been lesser rush at the banks as compared to the first 15-20 days. Our ATMs being the only ones open, there was a lot of rush at ATMs centres for over a month. On Saturday, there were fewer people in the banks and the ATMs were also not crowded,” said a senior official from SBI.
 
 Another official from HDFC Bank said there was sufficient cash flow now and all the ATMs were open.
 
