Voters in the last and smallest phase of the UP elections are voting to bring down the curtains on the month-long exercise. In these 40 seats of southern Poorvanchal, the   and its ally Apna Dal have nothing to gain vis-à-vis the 2014 elections, when they led in each of these seats - the BJP in 35 of them and its ally in the remaining five.

 The presence of Narendra Modi in the race from Varanasi in that election obviously made a difference, but the BJP has made it all about Modi once again and thrown everything into this last phase. On the face of it, there should be no reason for it to expect a tough fight here, because even the combined SP-Congress vote share of 23% in 2014 was over 18 percentage points behind the BJP-AD combine's share of 41.6%.
 
 BSP, with 21.2%, finished ahead of SP on votes in this part but still well behind the saffron combine. But BJP would be aware that just two years earlier, in 2012, it had been reduced to an also-ran with both SP and   polling higher than their state-wide averages in this region and BJP's vote share being just 11.5%. The  ' share of 8.7% also well short of its state average. 
 
 This was not really reflected in the seat tallies with SP winning the lion's share (23) and BSP, BJP, Congress and 'Others' sharing the remaining 17 seats more or less equally. The last two elections would suggest that the main rival for anybody in this part should be BSP, but the coming together of SP and Congress for these elections makes such assumptions far from obvious.
 
 Being the last phase, perceptions about what's happened in the earlier phases could play an important role in determining the voter's choice. Given the Indian voter's tendency to try and avoid "wasting" his or her vote, a party or alliance that's perceived to have done badly in the initial phases could well see its base shrinking in this part, making it somewhat closer to a two-horse race. That could also lead to important vote banks switching preferences at the last minute.
 
