GURUGRAM:   V. Umashankar met the team that created a three-dimensional copy of Singapore, called  . The objective was to explore ideas that create a truly smart city or a Smart Nation.

 At a meeting held in the Commissioner's office, officials of the French company   presented an overview of their proprietary solutions that create a three-dimensional copy of the city to enable urban planners and administrators carry out a feasibility or impact analysis of various events that shape up the city - whether it is urban planning, citizen services,   or traffic monitoring. 
 
 During the meeting, Umashankar talked about the projects and initiatives that are being carried out to collect accurate data related to various aspects of the city to ensure that information available in those data sets can be leveraged to integrate diverse systems that deliver various citizen-centric services.
 
 Speaking about the initiative, he said, "MCG is working on gathering data generated from various systems implemented over time. They are multiple, diverse and in some cases do not exchange insights. This is fine as long as we have accurate data and information in some format. The data can be migrated to any standard format for integration with such advanced systems as the one implemented in Singapore."
 
 In the past, these experts have worked closely with the National Research Foundation and showcased transformational aspects of the SmartNation Singapore.
 
 Umashankar also said, "The integrated approach will work once the infrastructural data spread across multiple agencies at city, state and central government level is gathered, cleaned and analysed before being used." He added that "what we are doing is first-of-its kind initiative to create an Indian model without the tremors of technology".
 
 He concluded, "We are creating a Smart City that will be based on strong fundamentals and will be a benchmark model for others to follow".
 
 Although Gurugram is not nominated as a Smart City by the government of India, but the strategic importance enjoyed by the city implies that it cannot keep pace with the rapid urbanisation unless it adopts systems and implements processes that are resilient and collaborative.
 
