They’re most comfortable in denims, tees and biker jackets; safety gear is their favourite accessory; they love the wind in their hair as they go chasing their dreams. and when they straddle their motorbikes, they can give their toughest male counterparts a run for their money. Female bikers are a class apart for many reasons. As wanderers, explorers and even conquerors, they bust the sexist notion that big bikes aren’t for women. 
On  , Hyderabad Times speaks to women riders — both experts and novices — to find out what it takes to be a woman on a bike on Indian roads. catcalls, stares and unsolicited sexist advice notwithstanding, it’s one helluva ride, they say.
 
 
 
 I usually wear a helmet when I am riding. But once men realise that it is a woman on the bike, they have to confirm that by overtaking and checking if I have boobs! God forbid if I am riding without a helmet, they overtake me from left, right and centre. And if I overtake a man, then that’s it! even if he is on a gearless bike, he will try his best to avenge the overtaking (laughs).
 But honestly, I think we need more women riders. At festivals, if there are, let’s say, 1,600 bikers who register on an average, there will be only about 160 women. I always hear the other girls saying, ‘Oh I wish someone taught me how to ride.’ And that is why I take out time to teach women how to ride. to be honest, it’s not a big deal. You just have to learn to change gears. And when it comes to handling the weight, it is more about technique than strength. 
 —  , creative content head with a start-up
 
 
 
 When I started riding, there were no self-start bikes around yet. just the idea of a woman kick-starting the bike was too much for people to handle. And it’s not just men — even women passed comments. I’ve had friends telling me that bikes are not for girls and that I am spoiling all prospects of marriage by doing these “tomboy things”. But I didn’t let any of that get to me. I am still single and I ain’t complaining. 
 —  , techie
 
 
 
 Every time someone sees me on my motorbike, I get to hear the same ol’ thing — ‘But how can girls ride bikes?’. What annoys me most is when they say ‘Bikes are only for boys.’ Ask why, and it always goes back to the idea that women are the ‘weaker sex’. ‘Isn’t it too heavy?’ ‘Do you have the strength?’ ‘How will you change gears?’ These questions just strengthen my resolve to keep riding. 
 — Ayesha, marketing professional with a start-up
 
 
 
 To get a taste of just how regressive this world really is, a woman only has to ride a bike! Once you are a biker, inane comments become part of every day life. I went to a petrol bunk this one time to tank up my cruiser. The guy there asked me, ‘Did you really ride this bike and come?’ I retorted ‘No, I pushed the bike till here!’. Initially it was infuriating to hear these sexist comments; but after a while one gets used to it. Another time, the cops were checking for drunken driving and they stopped me. So I pulled over, shut off the engine, put the bike on stand; everything was fine, till I took my helmet off. and then the cop goes, ‘Oh, ladyaaa?’ (laughs) You just learn to live with it.
 — DJ, entrepreneur
 
 
 I started learning to ride when I was just 10. my dad was my teacher. When I am out on the streets on my bike, of course, I get catcalled and teased. But for every middle finger that is shown to me, there are that many thumbs up signs and victory signs waved as I pass by. As a girl, you get ‘eve-teased’ even if you are just crossing the road. You can’t let these bullies stop you from doing what you love. just keep your eyes on the road and ride on — that’s been my mantra. 
  —  , model-actor
 
