KOLKATA: A day after aggrieved   supporters attacked the house of   on Wednesday, a group of 60 odd men armed with party flags and banners crying against   laid a siege to the apartment of   state party president   at Kadapara off EM bypass on Thursday.

 The men chanted slogans against Modi and demanded entry into the Narayani Apartments complex beside Swabhumi, where Ghosh stays at a seventh floor flat. The  , however, left after realising Ghosh was not at home. 
 
 “The attacks show the desperation on part of the Trinamool Congress. It shows which party is politically vindictive,” Ghosh said.
 
 Throughout Thursday, Trinamool Congress supporters blocked roads and took out processions across Kolkata and its immediate surroundings to protest against Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest.
 
 Between 10am and 4pm, five different rallies were brought out that choked morning and afternoon traffic on Thursday. The first procession began at 10am from Narkeldanga Main Road and meandered to Girish Park Ram Mandir, causing major traffic snarls at Rajabazar, College Street and Vivekananda Main Road. At 10.30pm another procession began from Bagbazar and moved till Ganesh Talkies.
 
 The central Kolkata came to a standstill due to three rallies. The first one from Ramlila Maidan to R R Avenue started at 11pm. At 2pm two processions were taken out — one from Park Circus Maidan to R R Avenue and the other from College Square to Y Channel via College Street and S N Banerjee Road and Dorina crossing.
 
 Train services were also blocked at Mullickpur station in South 24-Parganas in the morning hampering train movement between Sealdah and stations like Namkhana, Kakdwip and Diamond Harbour for more than two hours.
 
 Meanwhile, thousands of school and college students, office-goers and traders had a harrowing time on Thursday morning after Trinamool supporters continued to block road and railway tracks across North 24-Parganas. 
 
 Blockades were also put up at Barasat and BT Road near Rabindra Bharati University for more than an hour.
 
 The Trinamool supporters also squatted on railway tracks at Karyea Kadambagachi and Ashokeanagar stations. Services on Sealdah-Bongaon section and Sealdah-Hasnabad section were disrupted. The effigy of PM Narendra Modi was also burnt at Bagdah in Bongaon.
 
 (With inputs from Sanjib Chakraborty)
 
 
