NEW DELHI: Piece of magic is what Australia needed. Piece of magic is what Australia got. Shaun Marsh and Peter Handscomb used their bats like magic wands and batted out 62 overs that included a wicketless second session to force a draw for Australia that seemed very unlikely at the start of the final day in Ranchi. 

  finally struck for India, 11 overs before stumps, and then R Ashwin responded with the wicket of first-innings centurion Glenn Maxwell. But it all came at a time when Australia had taken the lead and done just about enough to escape defeat. 
 
 Australia finished on 204/6 with Handscomb and Matthew Wade remaining unbeaten. India were left to rue a drop catch of Handscomb shortly after the tea interval that proved extremely vital. The batsman offered a faint nick but Karun Nair at short-leg couldn't hold onto it. He went on to forge a 124-run alliance with Marsh and it denied India, who had restricted the tourists to 63/4, to break through between lunch and tea. Both batsmen reached their half-centuries and quite possibly the most important of their careers given the state of the game and their respective forms, and blunted the Indian attack with high-level of concentration. It was Test batting of the highest order.
 
  and Jadeja dealt Australia late blows in the morning session to increase their stranglehold on the match. In an eventful over, Ishant removed Matt Renshaw while Jadeja responded next over with the big wicket of captain  , leaving Australia with a daunting task of saving the Test.
 
 The first hour of the day was stonewalled, with Australia scoring only 25 runs and rightfully so. The ball was turning and keeping low but Renshaw and Smith made the Indian bowling look flat. Renshaw in particular was impressive once again, soaking pressure by batting outside off to negate Jadeja's effect from the rough.
 
 Reverse swing was always going to be a threat but Ishant and Umesh initially missed a trick and bowled outside off. That is, before Ishant came round the wicket to Renshaw. Bit of drama unfolded when the left-hander pulled back while Ishant was in his run-up. And that ticked the bowler off as he threw the ball to the wicketkeeper. A lapse in concentration it was perhaps for Renshaw as three balls later, he missed a ball that kept a bit low and swung back in and the batsman was given out leg-before.
 
 Next over, India struck with the wicket they needed the most with Smith pulling off an almost Virat Kohli-like dismissal from Pune. Jadeja, operating over the wicket, pitched the ball just about enough on leg, which Smith tried to pad. Instead, the ball spun sharply and took Smith's off stump. All of a sudden despite all that hard work Australia had put in, India were the side on top.
 
 Australia then seized the advantage through Marsh and Handscomb, two batsmen who have had an underwhelming series so far. The spin threat of Jadeja and Ashwin was going to be Australia's biggest challenge and the pair responded by striking a game-changing partnership. 
 
 While Marsh used his defence to perfection against Jadeja, Handscomb wasn't afraid to dance down to Ashwin, who bowled an ineffective spell. He drove and flicked Ashwin for three boundaries in an over. Virat Kohli, who has hardly been a believer in operating with spin from both ends, was made to do so. But even Ashwin and Jadeja operating in tandem couldn't throw either batsman off their game.
 
 Jadeja continued to pitch the ball outside off and created pressure. He hardly gave anything away, conceding just 12 runs in the entire session. Jadeja's miserly spell could be estimated by the fact that Australia went without scoring a run for 32 balls. India lost their first of the two reviews when Marsh did not offer a shot and the ball hit him outside off. It was a bad call and was immediately turned down on referral.
 
 India began the final session well. Ashwin bowled a maiden and Umesh bent his back, but wickets didn't come. There was little excitement on offer when an Umesh delivery that thudded onto Handscomb's back pad but the call was turned down on referral. With a flick off Ashwin, Marsh put Australia in the lead before offering a loose defense to Jadeja that was taken by Vijay at short-leg, giving the bowler his fourth wicket.
 
 India could have calling it off but Ashwin gave himself a chance against Maxwell and the belief paid off. A carrom ball had Maxwell out LBW before the players shook hands and braced themselves for the fourth and final encounter at Dharamshala.
 
 
  Australia 204/6 and 451 all out (Peter Handscomb 72, Shaun Marsh 53; Jadeja 4/54) drew with India 603/9 decl 
 
