Jayant Harkare, 81, is a maverick who says he is one of the first photographers in   to be employed in a newspaper. He can be easily called the living archive of the city, given his vivid memories of a city that has come a long way in transition. 

 Harkare has wonderfully preserved his journalistic journey in over 2000 photographs he has clicked, and some he has collected. Nagpur’s glorious years as a princely state, the rule of the Bhonsalas, the turmoil post-independence and emergency period.. he has seen it all. Some priced photographs of Nehru and Indira Gandhi also bear their signatures on the photos.
 
 Excerpts from an  ...
 
 
 A. As a child, I used to accompany my uncle when he would travel from Balaghat to Nagpur to buy photography material. Gradually, I developed an interest in photography, and my uncle gifted me a British-made ‘Ensign’ camera. Uncle told me one thing then: Keep an archive of the diminishing structures of Bhosales and preserve Nagpur’s heritage. One camera film, which allowed only 12 photos then, cost 1 rupee and 9 annas. I started taking pictures of entire Nagpur as a hobby. People used to tell me, ‘What will you do of this?’
 
 
 A. I joined the Navy in 1950. When I came to Nagpur in 1956, I met Balasaheb Deoras, then chief of RSS and editor of its mouthpiece, Tarun Bharat. He was aware of my hobby and belonged to Balaghat as well. He told me, “You have to stay here and work as a photographer for the paper.” That was the beginning of the concept of ‘photojournalism’, and I was the first photographer employed by any newspaper in Nagpur.
 
 
 A. During those days, photographs for newspapers were outsourced to photo studios. For a speech coverage, for example, only one photo was taken since studio photographers didn’t stay on field for the entire coverage. Due to this, there was no evidence of the location of the event, etc. Generic photos would often appear in newspapers along with political coverage.
 
 
 A. There used to be tough competition among newspapers to be the first ones to have any particular photograph. It escalated to an extent that some of them would orchestrate mishaps like burning of houses in order to be the first ones to cover it. Apart from that, Deoras wanted to develop Tarun Bharat and usher in modern era in newspaper publishing. Instead of outsourcing printing of newspapers, he started a block printing department himself. He understood the urgency of printing a newspaper. Eventually, other newspapers started publishing their prints from this department itself. For photography, normal lens didn’t allow movement. In 1969, Tarun Bharat wrote to the prime minister and excise department to allow it to buy a camera from Germany. This was when I received a Nikon F1 camera allowing motion and action pictures.
 
 
 A. We were barred from publishing any political news. And in protest, our editor used to keep that part of the newspaper blank. Several intelligence officers would come to my house early in the mornings and interrogate my wife about my whereabouts. I was the only one with pictures of RSS and its events. I did not share anything with them.
 
 
