CHHAPRA: Following a demonstration held near Bhikhari Mor at Doriganj by the locals and schoolgoing children alongwith their parents last Wednesday to protest against   on NH-19 connecting Chhapra to Patna, especially near Doriganj in Saran district, district magistrate Harihar Prasad on Friday issued an order which bans entry or parking of   between Chhapra and Doriganj from 5am to 9 pm. 

 According to the  , heavy vehicles coming through newly-opened Chhapra-Ara bridge via Jai Prakash bridge at Manjhi or coming through Baniapur NH-102, will not be allowed to enter  . This measure would not only provide relief at Doriganj but would also ease traffic snarl in Chhapra town.
 
 Saran DPRO A.K.Choudhary said, “ Sadar SDO, SDPO, COs and SHOs have been directed to strictly follow this with immediate effect till further orders.”
 
 Choudhary further said the traffic jam was due to the unusual delay in issuing e-challans to sand-laden trucks. The drivers of these trucks often used to park their vehicles in haphazard way on NH 19 disrupting traffic movement s including ambulances. The locals, however, are sceptical as such orders had been promulgated in the past also and was hardly effective.
 
 Two miscreants nabbed: Saran police on Friday nabbed two miscreants while they made an attempt to flee with looted potato-laden truck near Banwar railway crossing under Doudpur police station area of the district. Police also seized the stolen truck, one Scorpio being used by the miscreants, one country-made pistol, nine live cartridges and two magazines from their possession. The nabbed miscreants have been identified as Guddu Rai, a resident of Ratanpura Mohalla and his relative Ved Prakash, a resident of Shiv Bazar mohalla both under Bhagwan Bazaar police station of the town.
 
 Saran SP Anusuiya RS Sahu said the duo looted the truck near Enai village and tried to escape towards Siwan through NH-85. The truck was coming from Deoria (UP) and belongs to one Rafi Rai of Sitamarhi. 
 
