HYDERABADl: In a move to promote handloom, the  , Hyderabad (JNTU-H) management has now issued a circular `advising' students to don  , at least once a week.

 This decision follows a letter written to the varsity vicechancellor, by the   ( ), requesting his support to popularise handloom.
 
 “All the teaching, non-teaching employees of the university and the students of affiliated colleges in the University jurisdiction are advised to wear handloom clothes on every Monday and also advised to join monthly instalments scheme of both five and ten months in 'Chenetha Lakshmi' offered by TSCO for promoting and sustaining the handloom industry,“ read the circular.
 
 The move, however, has been met with opposition from some sections of studentsparents who view the move as an unnecessary burden on their pockets.
 
 “Now, the university is just `advising' us to wear a particular kind of clothes, tomorrow they may make it compulsory. How can the the university dictate what kind of clothes we wear,“ questioned Anand M Singh, a third year B Tech student.
 
 Echoing similar concerns, another student Sireesha V said: “The idea of promoting the handloom industry is not a bad, but the university's move to send out a circular can be interpreted wrongly . There are chances that colleges will now start forcing students to wear only handloom.“
 
 Parents, meanwhile, dreaded that this move would force them to shell out more money to buy new clothes.
 
 “Already , the college fee is sky-rocketing. Now, if the university issues such circulars it is going to get tough for us.Whether it is just an advice or a mandatory rule, this move would mean that we have buy at least a couple of pairs of handloom clothes,“ said P Ramana Murthy, a parent.
 
 TSCO was established in 2016, after being bifurcated from   in accordance with the A.P. State Re-organisation Act, 2014. Previously, Telugu actors and politicians were seen lending a helping hand to handloom industry to ensure weavers didn't lose their livelihoods.
 
