BENGALURU: A rule mandating all   to affix new stickers bearing changed prices on unsold pre-GST goods is not being followed. This is hampering implementation of the Goods and Services Tax regime. While retailers say they are yet to receive the stickers from  , the latter blame logistical hurdles for their inability to supply them. 

 Following the GST rollout on July 1, the Centre on July 4 issued an order making it compulsory for retailers to display the old maximum retail price (MRP) and the revised rate, the latter via an add-on sticker. The government issued a notification, imposing a fine up to Rs 1 lakh and a jail term for non-compliance. 
 
 However, retail outlets in   are not adhering to the rule. “Forget the stickers, manufacturers have not even supplied us the new inventory. They insist that we first exhaust the old stock at the pre-GST prices,” said a sales manager at a supermarket in Bengaluru.
 
 Manufacturers say they are facing logistical problems. Murali Krishna N, general secretary, Bengaluru Packaged Condiments Association, said: “It is practically impossible for any manufacturer to assess quantity of the existing stock with wholesalers and retailers. While a manufacturer wouldn’t know how many stickers should be printed, distributing them is just not possible,” said Krishna, whose organization is among those who have sent a representation to the Centre expressing their inability to follow the rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Many supermarkets, including Big Bazaar, have devised an internal mechanism of repricing commodities without pasting new stickers. “Affixing the stickers is a hassle. Instead, we are absorbing the increased price component and offering it as discount to consumers,” said Govind Baheti, head of agri-goods sales at Future Group.
 
 He said packed foodgrains, which were exempted earlier and are now taxed at 5% under GST, are being sold at the old price not to burden consumers with the added tax. “Our suppliers have said they will credit us with the increased tax component and we are passing it on to consumers,” he explained. Many retailers, however, are exploiting the situation and charging more than the old MRP in the guise of GST.
 
 “Manufacturers have made a representation to the government saying it is impossible for them to supply new MRP stickers for old stocks. However, violators are liable for punishment,” said P R Shivaprasad, state controller of legal metrology. He suggested that consumers demand bills from traders, which display GST components and the price distinctly.
 
 R G Muralidhar, a practitioner of indirect taxes, said the government must announce a price matrix that could be displayed at retail outlets. Traders, however, feel repricing will not help since they have already paid tax for pre-stocked goods and they will incur losses by selling them at modified prices.
 
 “Several commodities which attracted higher tax rates fall under a lower tax bracket in the new regime. Who will reimburse the extra tax we have paid,” asked B Suresh, president of  . He said the central excise department should reimburse manufacturers for the excess tax and the latter should pass it on to the dealers. However, the anti-profiteering clause mandates traders to pass on benefit of lower price to customers.
 
 M Vinod Kumar, principal chief commoner of central excise, however, said it is manufacturers’ responsibility to absorb the excess tax component and by no means should the commodities be sold at old MRPs. “Manufacturers are being given the benefit of transition credit and 60 per cent of tax paid is being credited to them. They have no reason to say they can’t follow the dual MRP rule,” said Kumar.
 
 Several commodities have become cheaper after the GST system kicked in. For instance, a biscuit packet that earlier costed Rs 25 should now be priced at Rs 24. But shop owners are collecting Rs 25 for the packet, which has no new MRP sticker. 
 
 
 
 While pricing is not a problem for new stock arriving after July 1, the confusion over repricing is expected to continue till pre-GST goods are exhausted. A sales manager at a supermarket said they had old inventory worth Rs 1 crore.
 
 
 
 Many hoteliers are still collecting service charge and service tax, which have no place in the GST regime. A joint commissioner of commercial tax was himself at the receiving end when a hotel handed him a bill comprising all components — GST, service tax and service charge. He blamed the hotel manager’s ignorance and warned him of the violation. 
 
 
