ASSI GHAT (VARANASI): With less than 24 hours to go for the last day of campaign in   and neighbouring constituencies in the eighth phase of UP polls,   is confident of BJP’s victory as he leaves for a quick holy dip at Assi Ghat.

 Clad in a sleeveless shirt with a bag of fresh clothes tucked under his arm, the 75-year-old could be mistaken for any random tourist as he checks in at Baranas Haveli, a popular hotel among international backpackers. The only difference is that Sombhai is elder brother of Prime minister  .
 
 On his second visit to Varanasi in the last one week, he has no role in his brother’s roadshow or campaign. “These things are better left to him,” he said, adding, “I have come here twice lekin maine koi campaign nahi kari hai, main Banaras mai ghooma hoo aur logo se milta julta raha hoo. Maine logo ka bhaav dekha hai (Not here for campaign, have only met people and read their mood). Their sentiment reminds me of the anger with which they voted the Congress government out,” said Sombhai.
 
 He derides Samajwadi Party’s kaam bolta hai slogan. “10 saal se ek bridge nahi bana yahan par (Not a bridge built here in 10 years). I went to Mirzapur and the situation is same. Pehle Mulayam ji ki sarkar, Mayawati ji phir Akhilesh ki...yeh kaam bolta hai ya unka kutumb bolta hai. In sabka hisaab public karegi (From Mulayam to Mayawati to Akhilesh, is it the work that speaks or the dynasty? The voter will settle their account)” he comments.
 
 Sombhai said he didn’t follow the equations of religion or caste-based seat distribution or comments on electricity or polarisation.
 
 He said he sensed a clear majority for the BJP but is inept to make any calculations on the possibility of a tie-up between BSP and BJP in case of a fractured mandate. His friend, who speaks Hindi and Gujarati, drops in and whispers into Sombhai's ear. 
 
 “We have travelled 500km-plus by road on Sunday but just a dip in Ganga will rid us of our fatigue,” he said, looking at Sombhai.
 
 Before Sombhai leaves, he says “Log (Congress and SP) idhar udhar galat baatein karte rahe unke liye logo ke dil mai jo sthan hai use nahi hata sakte (Opposition kept making loose talk but they couldn’t take the place Modi has in people’s hearts)”.
 
 
