NAGPUR: The performance of Congress was as shocking as loss of its city president Vikas Thakre and victory of underdog Bunty Shelke. In spite of the four member ward system that was in favour of major parties, Congress has performed abysmally in 2017 Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. It has won only 29 out of 151 seats. It had won 41 seats in 2012, 33 in 2007 and 55 in 2002 elections.

 It was evident from the beginning of election season that Congress was in a position to take on BJP. However, such a poor performance was not expected. It was only because of heavy infighting among the two Congress factions — one led by ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar and city Congress president Vikas Thakre and another comprising former ministers Nitin Raut, Anees Ahmed and Satish Chaturvedi — that things came to this pass.
 
 The poll campaign of Congress got off to an inauspicious start when a mathadi worker threw ink on Ashok Chavan, president of  , during the first election meeting of the party. The worker is reported to be a close aide of a prominent local Congress leader, who was upset with his supporters not being given party tickets.
 
 Like last two elections, there were several cases of party B forms being distributed to more than one candidate from the same seat. This happened in over ten seats. The candidate who submitted the B form to election officials first got the party symbol. In some cases one of the candidates was persuaded to withdraw while in others the candidate remained in fray as an independent.
 
 The loss of Congress in ward 9 was clearly due to distribution of double B forms. Both Vinil Chaurasia and Kishor Jichkar were given B forms but Jichkar got the hand symbol because he filed the nomination first. The other three candidates were however, in favour of Chaurasia and they campaigned with him. Both lost to BSP in the end.
 
 The blame game has already started. Without taking name of any Congress politician, ex-minister Raut slammed his rival group in a press statement. “The debacle of Congress in Nagpur’s civic poll is direct result of certain leaders discarding party’s principles of democratic functioning. We witnessed dictatorial attitude of a specific group, which was not interested in effecting a Congress win but wanting Congressmen to lose. In the last three decades of my life that I have dedicated to Congress, this is the lowest point. And all because somebody put self first and party second,” the statement reads.
 
 Sources in Congress said that Raut, Ahmed and Chaturvedi will demand city Congress president Vikas Thakre’s resignation if he does not put in his papers on his own.
 
 
