KOCHI: It seems the   (DMRC) would be taking more time to finalise tenders for construction of elevated viaduct and stations at  ,   and Pettah. 

  Contrary to the expectations that the Metro authority would provide a clear picture on finalisation of these contracts by the first week of April, sources close to project said the metro authority would extend the last date for submitting bids.
 
 Earlier, it was stated that the tender documents would be opened on March 30. "There were requests to extend the date for dropping tenders as some working days for lost to festivals. So, it could be extended for a few more days," said a DMRC official, refusing to confirm the date.
 
 DMRC officials said they received a good response from prominent companies during the pre-bid meeting and consider it an indication that they want to associate with Kochi Metro project. 
 
 The Metro authority floated fresh tenders to execute civil works on various stretches between Maharaja's college and Pettah in February. 
 
 They were forced to cancel previous tenders as they were unable to get sufficient number of contenders required for finalising the deal. "We are hopeful that this time we would be able to get reputed and experienced firms to undertake the work. Some of the companies who have earlier associated with the prject were disqualified," said an official.
 
 The officials said that the financial bids would be evaluated after processing technical bids. If the companies qualify in the technical bid, following which their financial bids would be evaluated. "This is a time consuming process. If there are more participants it would take more time to complete the process and award the tenders," added the official.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking on the progress of work, sources close to DMRC said that the designs for construction of Kochi Metro's viaduct on the national highway at Vyttila junction is ready. Regarding the construction of Chambakkara bridge, the metro authority said they would start work once the land is made available. He also said road-widening works were progressing between   and Pettah junction. The Metro authority faced severe criticism for delay in awarding contracts for executing works in various stretches between Maharaja's college and Pettah. As per an earlier plan, the DMRC was to complete the work from Aluva to Palarivattom by December 2015, and Palarivattom to Pettah by March 2016. 
 
 The delay in completing land acquisition, labour unrest and quarry strikes had adversely affected time-bound execution of the project.
 
 
