NAGPUR: The sizeable   seemed to have found fresh support for their cause in minister for women and child welfare  

 She has decided to propose a welfare board for the third gender. The decision was taken by Munde last week in Mumbai after a delegation of the transgender community met her at Mantralaya.
 
 The transgender community, earlier under ministry of social justice, may also be included within the ambit of women and child welfare department since Munde has showed keenness to help the marginalized section with sops. The community is learnt to have placed their grievances before the minister during the brief meeting.
 
 Munde told TOI the meeting had ended on a positive note, opening many new possibilities for the repressed section, which had so far remained neglected. “We are now trying to put up a note before the cabinet, proposing a welfare board for the transgenders, which will administer the benefits for the section,” said Munde.
 
 “The ministry of social justice is supposed to administer benefits for transgenders as they are included under it. But the community is keen to come under the women and child welfare department. So, we must now have infrastructure in place and route the benefits through the welfare board,” said the minister. She said that the state government also needs to keep tabs on the stance of the central government on the issue of transgenders.
 
 Munde, speaking about the significance of helping the community, said transgenders are also human beings who are finding it difficult to be accepted by the rest of the society. “Not many transgenders are educated or have proper source of income for a healthy living standard. It is also true that the section does not get due respect from the rest of the society,” said Munde.
 
 Welcoming Munde’s initiative, city-based transgender activists suggested representatives from every region of the state be included in the committee to suggest benefits.   said they face many problems and their solutions could be region-centric.
 
 Some crucial issues, as per Senapati, include housing problem of transgenders. “The government should consider allotting us land for housing colonies and also job quotas like those provided in Chattisgarh and Jharkhand, where sanitation workers are inducted from the transgender community,” she said.
 
 Senapati’s close aide   also said the government has included the third gender column in only some sectors but it should be uniformly followed by all the departments.
 
 Mahi Tete, an activist from south Nagpur, said the   government has considered allotting job reservations and other benefits to the transgenders, which even Maharashtra government should follow.
 
 
