VIJAYAWADA: In a boost to the  's plan to make Amaravati an  , seven   firms have decided to set up shop in the   

 Information technology minister Nara Lokesh will formally inaugurate all seven firms on Wednesday. 
 
 The new companies will start operations from Medha Towers near Gannavaram airport. Altogether 1,500 persons would be employed in the beginning, subsequently more are to be recruited.
 
 The firms starting operation are Groupto Antolin, IES (Spanish and German companies), Rotomaker, Chandu Soft, Melsova, EP SOFT, Yamyah IT Solutions (United States based companies). These companies deal in high-end automotive interiors designing, IT consultancy, digital educational services, IT/ITES services, projects and products among other things.
 
 It may be noted that AP Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRT) has been instrumental in bringing the IT companies to AP. "IT firms require a very specific ecosystem to launch operations. To create such an environment, we have actively worked to facilitate and coordinate students, training institutes and IT companies.   is fortunate to have all these ingredients and a visionary chief minister with a proven track record," Dr Ravi Vemuru, CEO of APNRT, told TOI. Vemuru, who is also an advisor to the government, said a young and dynamic IT minister has rejuvenated the industry. He said a number of IT firms are lining up to start businesses in Amaravati and Visakhapatnam. 
 
 Meanwhile, APNRT has launched a unique integrating web-based networking portal, www.itcentral.in, an ecosystem to service and connect all incoming companies, training institutes and students seeking jobs. The portal will match the right person with the right job or required skill training. This website will also be the one-stop destination for all IT-related information. Recently, nine IT firms started operations in Vijayawada. After IT giant HCL set foot in the city, there has been an influx of proposals from small and medium brands.
 
 IT minister Nara Lokesh will formally inaugurate all seven firms on Wednesday. The new companies will start operations from Medha Towers near Gannavaram airport. 1,500 persons would be employed in the beginning, subsequently more will be recruited 
 
