LUCKNOW: There was confusion at   on Sunday over cancellation and diversion of trains because of the ongoing work of doubling the Lucknow-Varanasi railway tracks. Though railways claimed they had notified public about the changes in advance, passengers complained the railway helpline gave no information and their tickets were cancelled without any intimation. Many who had booked their tickets up to two months in advance said if railways had such plans, why were tickets booked in the first place. 

 The trains cancelled included eight pairs running between north (Jammu and Punjab) and east (West Bengal and Bihar) via Uttar Pradesh, including Howrah-Jammu Tawi Himgiri Express, HowrahAmritsar Express and Patliputra-Chandigarh Express and others, while 12 trains were diverted, including Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, Dehradun-Howrah Upasana Express, Kota-Patna Express, Varanasi-Jammu Tawi Begampura Express and Guwahati-Indore Express, due to the ongoing work to double the track lane between Lucknow-Varanasi. 
 
 Passengers crowded enquiry window on platform No. 1 asking for reason of cancellation, while many passengers said their tickets were cancelled without informing them. 
 
 A passenger who had come to board the train for Sultanpur, Pratyusha Shukla said, "When I saw the train to Sultanpur was cancelled as the rail route was blocked, I booked a cab for my journey."
 
 A passenger Amrit Jhanganiya said, "I called 139 to get the status of my train and they told me Sadhbhawna Express was running on time. But when I came to the station to board it, I was told the train had been cancelled."
 
 Shahbaz Shabrozi came to cancel the ticket of   express said, "Two weeks back when I came to get reservation, they booked the ticket and did not inform me about the diversion. Railway should inform us in advance," he said. 
 
 Northern Railway DRM Satish Kumar said, "In case of traffic block, railways cancels and diverts trains and all reserved tickets are cancelled. The amount will be credited to the passengers' accounts."
 
