SECUNDERABAD: A modern bus-bay with all amenities will come up at Bowenpally X roads. but a sub post-office located adjacent to the proposed bus-bay has become a major bottleneck. The proposal of modern bus-bay was moved by the   (SCB) keeping in view of volume of plying the   (TSRTC) to the other districts is high. 

 When SCB had proposed road widening for half-kilometer between Bowenpallyy x Roads and Post Office, the authorities were approached the Postal Department and asked to vacate it to raze it. Even after one year is completed in doing correspondence with Postal Department, the SCB till date could not get any solution. 
 
 “SCB has promised to provide alternate arrangement of allotting a computer room (belonging to SCB) which located adjacent to the British-era post office, to avoid interruption in the postal services. We too made certain modifications as per the Postal Department suggestions. But they did not agree to occupy it citing reasons of insecurity to the cash, which collecting through stamps and other postal transactions,” a senior SCB engineering wing official told TOI. 
 
 After series of meetings conducted with the postal department, they put a demand of allotting the equivalent land in Cantonment Board in lieu of the age-old post office pulling down. The Postal Department however also stated that the land location has to face to main road for easily access to the customers. In fact, we have identified nearly 450 sq yards (equivalent to the extent of the existing sub post-office) at Bowenpally. A joint inspection of both SCB and Postal Department also conducted on the Cantonment land, but yet to no reply on their decision, he said. From SCB side, there is no delay to allot the land to the postal department, provided they hand over the post office, added the SCB official.
 
 “SCB allotted land for construction of new post office, but they are saying unless Board passed a resolution, the process of land hand over is not possible. In fact, the decision of British-era post offices are registered with the consent of President of India approval. As local postal department, we cannot take a final decision to hand over the post office to SCB. It is a big process behind handover the post office. We too doing correspondence with the Postal Department, Delhi authorities and waiting for their reply, said sources in Chief Postmaster General, Dak Sadan. 
 
 According to the TSRTC records, nearly three lakh vehicles pass through Bowenpally X Roads towards Jubilee Bus Station (JBS),   (MGBS) and other areas. For instance, nearly 500 to 800 buses cross through Bowenpally X Roads every day.Apart from these, lakhs of four-wheelers and two-wheelers from Alwal, Hakimpet, Shamirpet, Kompally and nearby Bowenpally X Roads ply on the Bowenpally stretch. 
 
 Once, the road get widen after razed post office, the traffic will go with free flow for nearly two kilolmeters, repleid a SCB official.
 
