NAGPUR: It’s a paradox that civic   do not generate as much interest among voters as the general or state elections do, when it is civic issues that concern all of us the most. True enough, most panellists were candid to admit that they didn’t even know the name of their corporator or their ward number.

 Shruti Dhabale, assistant professor at Tirpude institute, said that this is because the corporators do not make any efforts to meet the citizens. “We see them only before elections. Any visible development of the ward also takes place only before the elections. They are our representatives and should be interactive so that they know the local problems,” she said.
 
 Event and hospitality entrepreneur Mayank Sharma admitted that even he didn’t know the ward number of the locality he stayed in, while first-time voter Aditi Banthia also had no clue about her ward or the corporator. “We have never come face to face,” she said. Another first-time voter Shweta Lalwani said her friends were not very excited about the   polls.
 
 However, Tapan Suryawanshi, deputy manager in an IT firm, said that many times, even citizens don’t take the trouble to approach corporators. “We approached ours in a group and our problem was solved,” he added. University student Swaima Ahmed called for a janata darbar-type facility to increase voter interface and accountability among corporators. “We see them only around the elections. Are they part-time corporators?” she asked.
 
 The debate then moved on to specific civic issues, with panellists weighing on how they rated each service or amenity.
 
 First up was the massive concretization of roads under way across the city. Suryawanshi said he considered this as wasteful expenditure as the costs were too high and they were also impervious to rainwater. Ankita Shah, law student and RTI activist, added that she did not like the fact that trees were being cut to build roads. Restaurateur Rahul Modi added that road design was flawed in many places as evidenced by waterlogging during monsoon. However, housewife Harshita Verma said that with the kind of vehicular population, buses and  , we need roads that are durable and cement concrete roads are ideal.
 
 As in the case of the proposed Shivaji memorial in Mumbai, the recently-inaugurated statue of Swami Vivekanand at Ambazari drew several reactions. While Dhabale, Ahmed and law student Bilal Ahmed said that the   would be better served if it concentrated on ‘core issues’ first, Verma countered them, saying that such landmarks had their own value. She cited the example of Statue of Liberty, and said that beautification of the city and infrastructure development could be carried out in tandem as well.
 
 Next, it was the turn of public transport. Sharma said that the ethanol-run Green Buses that the NMC had announced with much fanfare were nowhere to be seen. Dhabale said that city buses in Nagpur lacked last-mile connectivity. “Many of my students who live in remote areas have to walk a couple of kilometres to the bus stop,” she said. Verma said that the reason middle-class people don’t use city buses is because they are in a bad shape.
 
 The panellists also decried lack of NMC-run cultural venues and sports facilities. Dhabale and Banthia wondered why NMC couldn’t provide facilities on par with Chitnavis Centre. “Additionally, there are hardly any auditoriums to speak of in East Nagpur,” Dhabale added. Swaima said that Nagpur also seriously lacked good public libraries and playgrounds. “Before providing free Wi-Fi, NMC should develop good open spaces for all citizens, including children,” she said. Bilal Ahmed said that NMC should also restart the international marathon which attracted international athletes and drew good response from the citizens as well.
 
 Many panellists also complained that encroachments were posing a host of problems for citizens. They said that at places such as Kasturchand Park, Traffic Park, Sadar, etc., NMC squads remove encroachments but do nothing to ensure that the encroachers do not return.
 
 However, many acknowledged that the city’s development was on the upswing, thanks to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. Suryawanshi said that road infrastructure was getting a huge boost with many ambitious flyovers also in the works. Some expressed reservations about the utility of the Metro Rail, but Modi said that once investment in the form of big industries comes, the Metro will justify its investment. Swaima said that good educational institutes were still a far cry in Nagpur, and the brain drain from the city bears out this fact.
 
 The panellists also said that tax rates were high, and not commensurate with the infrastructure in the city. “Rather than recovering dues from defaulters, the NMC keeps increasing taxes, adding to the burden of honest taxpayers like us,” Dhabale observed.
 
 Asked whether anti-incumbency and political affiliations would play a role in the NMC elections, most panellists agreed that people at the local level at least should vote for the right candidate rather than the political party or caste he or she belongs to.
 
 
