Kolkata: Who has the authority to carry forward the   style of dance? Two recent posts by Mamata Shankar and Tanusree Shankar’s daughter Sreenanda have raised a million-dollar question that has left the illustrious family baffled.

 A post on Facebook by Udayan Kala Kendra, of which Mamata is the principal, had claimed: “This is the one and only dance institution in the world to teach Uday Shankar style of dance”. Soon after, Sreenanda posted a link from Wikipedia and highlighted the legacy section, which stated that Tanusree Shankar is taking forward the Uday Shankar style. 
 
 “Uday Shankar, Ravi Shankar and Tanusree Shankar are the only ones who have received the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in this family. Papa and Dadu must be so proud of you. Thank God the world is not blind,” she posted on Facebook.
 
 Sreenanda, who is currently in the US, later told TOI, “There is not just one school that teaches this style. It is creative and the grammar is based on how each school teaches it. I don’t think the general public will take a customised poster seriously compared to what is out there on Wikipedia. This has not been written by us.”
 
 However, Mamata told TOI: “Sreenanda has spoken out of turn but since she is like my daughter, I forgive her for what she has said. I’m following Baba’s authentic style. We call it the Uday Shankar style of dance and not Shankar Technique of New Dance. If Uday Shankar India Culture Centre was still functional, I’d have never said that mine is the only institution to teach this style. Since it is not there, I can say this.”
 
 Mamata also pointed out that it was “very wrong” of Sreenanda to omit that Amala Shankar had become the Tagore Akademi Fellow from the Sangeet Natak Akademi in 2011. “Both ma and I were happy when Tanusree had got the Sangeet Natak Akademi award,” she said.
 
 Referring to her sister-in-law, Mamata said, “Tanusree has learnt from ma. Subsequently, she became my sister-in-law. Till today, we share a loving relationship.” Mamata insisted that after learning from Amala, Tanusree incorporated other techniques and inputs. “One has to see both the styles to understand the difference. I appreciate Tanusree’s work too. If there was any problem, Tanusree and I could have sorted it out. I don’t know why Sreenanda is bringing up this issue in public,” she said.
 
 Tanusree, who is currently in Toronto, said she is “very proud” of Sreenanda and the way she has expressed her feelings. “I am no one to judge. I always say we are following the path shown by Uday Shankar,” she said.
 
 
