KOLKATA: The roadblock that was threatening to stall a Rs 100-crore project to revive Tirreta Bazar, a part of the oldest surviving   in the country, has been removed, paving the way for restoration, conservation and presentation of the best that the Chinese community in the city has to offer.

 The project — christened ‘CHA’ project, which stands for   — by the state tourism department, the civic body and the ‘CHA’ team had come to halt when construction of a compactor station in the area was stalled. The installation of the compactor, which is nearing completion, was crucial to the revival projects because garbage from at least two civic wards is dumped in the heart of Tirreta Bazar.
 
 Jagdish Prasad Beria, owner of  , a furniture shop on  , had filed a case because the project was blocking more than half the entrance of his shape. After he did not receive any help from the KMC, he obtained an order from the court, which stalled the construction of the compactor station.
 
 In May last year, TOI had written how the entire   had hit a roadblock because of the garbage dump.
 
 Early this year, mayor Sovan Chatterjee met all the stakeholders and resolved the issue. According to the new plan, the location of the station has been altered to free the entrance to Sree Balaji.
 
 “I decided to withdraw the case after senior KMC officials and the mayor assured me that the compactor station will not block the entrance to our office,” said Beria. “Even we want revival of Tirreta Bazar’s lost glory. We are happy that the issue has been resolved.”
 
 The project will include stretches like Blackburn Lane, Damzen Lane, Chatawala Gali, Sun Yet Sun Street, Lu Shun Lane and Bentinck Street, which house a big chunk of the members of the Chinese community. 
 
 Stalls selling traditional Chinese food, covering a broad price range, will be set up. Many of the stalls will be owned by members of the Chinese community who are already known for running restaurants. Some big food brands from Singapore will also be found on ‘food street’.
 
 The members of the community are upbeat at the turn of events. “This restoration will play an important part in reviving the lost glory. Many Indian Chinese who have migrated abroad in search of better opportunities will come back because of the employment opportunities. It will also put a stop at the migration of the Indian Chinese to other countries,” said Dominic Lee, who is a part of the Cha project.
 
 
