For someone who says she doesn't want to be known as the face of cancer, being signed for a film because she is a cancer survivor is no less than irony.   is all set to make a comeback with Rajkumar Hirani’s biopic on   starring  . She is playing Sanjay's mother, actress  , in the film, and it was Manisha's resilience against the disease and the fact that she would relate better with the character that prompted Hirani to cast her. Recently in Jaipur as one of the speakers at a talk show, Manisha said, "It is so true. I firmly believe that we can make the worst situation of our life into a narrative of triumph. As an actor, if I can take the experience of my trauma and put it in a form of performance, I would love to do that." She added, "Yes, I will have to relive those painful moments. But I am an actor. It is my job and I hope I do it well."

  
 
 Unlike earlier times when she said she would do films without giving a second thought to the script, Manisha said that she now picks a film carefully. "I choose films carefully and not carelessly like earlier times. I have become selective. I am cautious that I don’t do boring roles. I want to do varied roles," she said.
 
  
 
 Manisha spoke about the time she was undergoing treatment for cancer. "I had to sign waivers, which warned me of possible harm. I had to sign forms that said I could have permanent heart damage, ear damage, a permanent neuropathy problem which would cause my hands to shake for the rest of my life. This was the time when I got really scared. At that moment, I wasn’t even bothered about my looks or hair loss; my life was in danger. I started thinking that this is the end of my life," said the actress. 
 
  She also admitted that she lived her life carelessly and never took her health seriously until she was diagnosed with cancer. "I adopted an unhealthy lifestyle. I signed a bad film that tanked at the box office. Then I signed another and another – all of them flopped. But I didn’t care. Because even then I had some good directors wanting to work with me. I thought I could always bounce back, but that never happened. Meanwhile, I was restlessly moving from one relationship to another. And soon, I was diagnosed with cancer. I must confess that I had messed up my life. I ignored all those people who cared for me, including my family. But now, it’s been four and a half years that I am cancer-free. I have found a new way of living. I have realised the importance of health when I was done with cancer. So I nurture it now and I do whatever it takes to live a healthy life. My relationship with my family has improved too," Manisha said.
 
  
 
 
