Ranchi: Days after CPI (Maoist) regional commander   Yadav surrendered,   on Saturday recovered a large cache of explosives from  , including 53 can bombs, one container bomb weighing 10 kg and 15 litres of fuel. 

 “We have seized 53 can bombs each containing 500 gm of explosives, one container bomb of 10 kg, 10 bundles of codex wires of 10 kg each and some unidentified explosive powder and 15 litres of unidentified fuel. A gas welding and cutting machine along with a gas cylinder and 30-40 kg of iron rods which were meant to be used as splinters were also recovered. We will send the powder and the fuel for forensic analysis to know the chemical compositions. It will explain what were they meant to be used for,” Lohardaga superintendent of police Kartik S said. 
 
 “Nakul, who has been associated with the Maoists more than two decades, has made some vital disclosures during his interrogation. Based on that we have launched search and combing operations in Lohardaga and other Maoist-affected districts of the state. We expect more such surrenders and recovery in the near future,” said a top cop of the state police. 
 
 The seizure made on Saturday was on the basis of disclosures made by Nakul and a tip-off received by the Lohardaga police. According to police sources, the explosives were hidden underground inside the forest. “We had specific intelligence about the location. Based on this we conducted a raid in that part of forest,” said Kartik.
 
 Lohardaga police made the recovery during its anti-naxal Netra operation. Under the operation, during the last couple of years, the district police have set up posters for naxals who have rewards ranging between Rs 12 lakh to Rs 76 lakh for their arrest. 
 
 “During a volleyball tournament organised at Peshrar village we got the tip-off about this huge cache of explosives in Husru village, which was not far from our outpost in Peshrar. This outpost is soon going to be notified as a police station. It will help us increase our presence and vigilance over this remote location of the district,” said Kartik.
 
 After the arrest of Nakul and other Bihar Jharkhand Special Area Committee (BJSAC) rebels the Lohardaga police along with CRPF teams have intensifies its combing operations.
 
 
