The weekend indeed began on a rough note for pub goers in the city. The  's decision to ban   vends within 500 meters of national and state highways has come as a huge blow to city’s restaurants and hotels. A majority of Coimbatore’s hotels and restaurants are located on the   and the ruling has left them shocked and helpless. With the watering holes shutting down, nightlife in the city has taken a backseat.

 
 
 Benila Kunnoth, a psychiatric counsellor, finds the verdict puzzling. “I do not really understand the   based on the distance. Even if someone consumes alcohol at a hotel   away from the highway, they are still going to use the highway to get back home.” Echoing her thoughts is businessman Krishna Kant , “If you look at Coimbatore, all the arterial roads are highways- Trichy Road, Avinashi Road and Mettupalayam Road. This means you cannot have a facility anywhere on these stretches. The city doesn’t have many entertainment options either. I have no clue about what I am going to do on weekends hereafter.”
 “Coimbatore has an active nightlife and many love to unwind at a restaurant or a lounge bar after a hard day’s work. Interestingly, almost every hotel and restaurant in the city is located on the highway and this means people will be left in the lurch. National Highways are not the only places where people drink. If someone wants to drink, they will not hesitate to drive down for few minutes. If drunken driving is the problem, why not ban alcohol completely?” asks businessman Anuraag Maheshwary, who frequently organizes parties in the city.
 
 
 Erine Louis, general manager of a star hotel in the city, tells us, “Liquor is not a necessity commodity. So, when the Supreme Court asks to restrict and reduce access to liquor, we will respect the decision as we want to be on the right side of the law. Our pub is not operating from day one of the implementation. But, if you ask me from an hotelier’s perspective, if we can run a hotel without these facilities, it’s a no. A bar is a facility where rules are well-written and the bar license fee is being paid. We have made huge investments in the hotel. People come here to meet, socialize, and conduct business meetings apart from boarding and lodging. The move is a huge blow to us.” Ramachandran Parameswaran, general manager of a star hotel on Avinashi Road, agrees, “The ban has not only affected the liquor sale, but the sale of food as well. It's unfair to provide us the bar license to operate and then a crackdown on serving the same. This is going to affect the business meetings that are conducted in the hotel, which is usually followed by a cocktail dinner.”
 
 
 
 DJ Vanessa Wilson, a resident DJ at one of the star hotels in the city, says, “The ruling affects the employment of people who work in bars- like bartenders, waiters and DJs. DJs have alternate options like playing at private parties and events, but what about others?” Ramachandran adds, “We have temporarily relocated our bar staff in the hotel to other departments. But, if the ban sustains in the long run, it will affect their career.”
 
 
 Everyone looks forward to weekends to bid adieu to their weekend blues. "Those who frequent my pub, always take a taxi back home. And what’s the guarantee that the move may help curb drunken driving. In fact, the ruling many encourage bootlegging, “says Vanessa. Benila adds, “When you drink at a star hotel, you are exposed to the best beverages available. You do not necessarily get drunk. The ban will lead to more house and private parties where there is absolutely no control over drinking.”
 
 
 
 “If the move is to curb drunken driving, why not implement stricter laws? Increase the fine for drunk driving and if the offender repeats it for the second time, cancel his license and seize the vehicle. Only stringent measures can curb drunken driving, not a ban on liquor at hotels and restaurants, that too based on their location,” says Anuraag. “Drunken driving is an issue that the entire world is battling with and only stricter laws can prevent it. Just because few people break rules, why should everyone suffer?” asks Vanessa. 
 
