Mumbai: While a team of   leaders led by Uddhav Thackeray has launched a high-powered campaign against the  , chief minister Devendra Fadnavis seems to be alone due to the absence of his colleagues.

 A senior minister on Wednesday confirmed to TOI that cabinet members, a section of Lok Sabha MP and a large number of legislators were conspicuous by their absence. “It’s a sad story, at a juncture when Fadnavis has taken on the Shiv Sena for rampant corruption in the BMC, senior BJP leaders have vanished for obvious political reasons. It appears that Fadnavis is alone in the electoral battle against the Shiv Sena,’’ he said.
 
 Fadnavis has addressed well over 50 elections rallies for corporation and zilla parishad polls across Maharashtra, while in Mumbai alone, he addressed more than a dozen well-attended meetings and is expected to address more gatherings. He addressed a large rally near the office of Saamna, the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece, in Prabhadevi. Since the area is a Shiv Sena bastion, there was uncertainty over the function, but Fadnavis made it clear to BJP workers that he was determined to hold the rally. In his all the rallies in Mumbai, Fadnavis explained the modus operandi of the Shiv Sena and how corruption has ruined the BMC. Following his intervention for the first time in the BMC’s history, contractors and high-ranking officials were jailed for their dubious role in the allotment of major contracts. But senior leaders failed to take the campaign against the Shiv Sena ahead, and it appeared that Fadnavis was alone in his crusade. 
 
 BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari defended his party, saying that all ministers from Mumbai, MPs and legislators had been given specific responsibilities. Higher and technical education minister Vinod Tawde is campaigning in Mumbai, ministers Prakash Mehta and Vidya Thakur are concentrating in the central and western suburbs. 
 
 The Shiv Sena’s attack against BJP leaders appears to be more vociferous. Uddhav, Aaditya, Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, MLC Anil Parab and Lok Sabha MP Rahul Shewale have stepped in to take on Fadnavis. 
 
 
