RAIPUR: After a brief lull,   struck again in  , killing 12   personnel and injuring two in strife-torn Sukma district of   on Saturday morning. 

  Sukma SP Abhishek Meena said the 112-member-party of CRPF was ambushed around 9am near Kotacheru, one of the worst Maoist-hit areas, around 450km from the state capital. 
 
  Sources say the rebels targeted a CRPF road-opening party (ROP) of A/E 219 Battalion that was sanitising an area for movement of troops to provide security to a road construction project. In a deeply forested region, the Maoists triggered an IED blast and riddled the jawans with gunfire. Eleven jawans died on the spot and a twelfth died in hospital. Two suffered critical injuries. 
 
  The Maoists escaped after looting 10 assault rifles and VHF radio sets. The CRPF security column that was following the ROP heard the gunfire and rushed to engage the Maoists. There was an exchange of gunfire but no casualties were inflicted on the rebels. The injured were shifted to Bhejji from where they were airlifted to  . 
 
 Police sources said the ambush happened in a very remote location where the only way of communication is via satellite phone. Reinforcements were sent immediately but they had to approach cautiously because Maoists often lay landmines to target rescue parties.
 
 Prime Minister   tweeted: "Saddened by the killing of CRPF personnel in Sukma. Tributes to the martyrs & condolences to their families. May the injured recover quickly." Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh called the attack an act of cowardice. "Maoists are resorting to such violence because they are losing their hold in Bastar. A massive combing operation is on to flush them out. Our forces are determined and capable of facing the challenge," he said.
 
  After paying homage to the CRPF personnel, home minister   said the government will ensure that families of the security personnel get "no less than Rs 1 crore". 
 
 Earlier, the CM convened an emergency meeting of senior civil and police officials to take stock of the situation in Bastar where Maoist activity peaks with the advent of summer. Maoists usually unleash violence in Bastar between March and July - till the onset of monsoon.
 
 
