ALWAR: Over 40 villages adjoining   (STR) are living in constant fear of attack from the  .Having lost four lives in the last three months, including two women in the last three days, along with a dozen villagers sustained injuries in the attack have forced the villagers to stay indoors. The situation has become so grave that administration is making announcement in these villages to   in the morning and evening hours. Besides, informing them to take all precautions while going out. It is also reported that children have stopped going to schools due to fear.

 “Through loudspeakers, we are making appeal to the villagers to move out in the groups.So far those killed and injured were attacked when they were alone. The cases of leopard attacking humans for flesh are new in the recent past. Earlier, leopards have attacked villagers suspecting danger as they had not eaten the flesh of humans,“ said a forest official.
 
 The forest department has deployed 40 cages to trap leopards but none was trapped till the last report came adding to the woes of the villagers.
 
 Experts said that since the population of tigers have increased in the area has forced the leopards to move towards villages. “It appears that they have made the territory around Sariska B area and DFO Alwar. Their movement was seen in over 40 villages,“ said RS Shekawat, field office, Sariska Ti ger Reserve. The estimated number of leopards was around 40. The local administra tion which is helpless in providing the solution to the problem has gave Rs15 lakh as compensation amount to the families to those killed and injured.
 
 Other than killings and injuring humans, Leopards have killed several cattle and injured many eroding the wealth of villagers. Furious over the attacks, villagers have formed squads to protect areas during the day . Some of the worst affected villages includes Raipur Bhal, Kadalanka, Pratapgarh, Surjagarh, Todi, Pawatsar. Kyaru and Jhiri. These are located in the interiors along adjoining the forest reserve. Shanti Devi who was killed on Monday was from Raipur Bhal village. The family of Devi was awarded Rs 10 lakh compensation.
 
 
 
 
 Population of leopards in Rajasthan came down from 612 in 2013 to 434 in 2015. At a workshop in Jaipur last week, experts highlighted how man-animal conflicts contributed to big fluctuations in leopard populations over the past decade. As a solution, the experts suggested how developing grasslands, increasing prey base and checking human interference in forests were urgently needed if the big cats, as also the other wildlife, were to be saved. Not just in Sariska, but across Rajasthan the panthers are fighting to survive as human interference was shrinking the natural habitats. Dwindling territory primarily leads to reduction in prey base, forcing the big cats to venture into human settlements. The state government should step in to save panthers from meeting the tigers' fate.
 
