Of all the things that Shadab Jakati has saved for a lifetime in his impressive showcase at home, a stump remains dearest to him. There is a bat signed by all his champion   (CSK) teammates, a ball that is still shiny as new, an autographed jersey too, but it’s the stump that catches the eye.
 
 “It’s from the 2010 IPL final which we won. It was a terrific game and something that I will never forget,” says Jakati, now spending time at home after another hectic IPL season.
 
 How could you forget that game? It was here, after all, that Jakati scripted a remarkable turnaround for CSK against  , scalping the wicket of, believe it or not, Sachin Tendulkar; the same Tendulkar who he idolised since taking to the game.
 
 “Tendulkar was going great guns in the final. We scored 168 in our innings and Tendulkar was threatening to take the final away from us. Mumbai Indians were at 100-odd runs with three wickets down and Tendulkar was batting solidly at 48. It was here that I picked up Tendulkar’s wicket and Mumbai Indians then collapsed,” remembers Jakati.
 CSK went on to win their first IPL title and Jakati, who bowled Saurabh Tiwary for a duck in the same final, became an instant hit with Chennai fans. A year earlier, the left-arm orthodox spinner had got appreciable turn from the pitches in South Africa and claimed four-fours in back-to-back games, but it was only the next year that Jakati’s 13 wickets got noticed.
 “Between 2009 and 2011, I played consistently well. I should have got a national call-up, but nothing happened. These days, if you do well in the IPL, you are guaranteed a place in the national team,” said Jakati.
 
 Even now, at age 36 and in the twilight of his career, Jakati continues to deliver; not in the IPL, though. In the Ranji Trophy last season, he managed to grab 41 wickets and finish among the top three  . As always, he was decent with the bat too, yet when the selectors sat down to shortlist players for national teams, Jakati was nowhere in the picture.
 
 Jakati doesn’t allow such disappointments to distract him. Since taking up the sport, first with tennis balls and then under-arm cricket, Jakati has remained Goa’s champion cricketer, raking up records like never before.
 
 “I used to play on the beach, and with friends on the streets. I used to play anywhere. One day I approached Sir Nitin Vernekar (SAG coach) at the   where all Ranji cricketers were training and, now, here I am,” said Jakati.
 Jakati made his Ranji Trophy debut in 1998 and has been Goa’s most successful cricketer since then with 268 first class wickets and another 70 in T20s.
 
 “I’ve not had much to complain. Cricket has given me everything I ever wanted and I will want to stay connected with the game after I have retired,” said Jakati, effusive in praise of his parents – Bashir and Abida – who have backed him all through his journey.
 
 Once he retires, Jakati will have plenty to choose from, including politics. For now, he is content with cricket and is enjoying life at home with his wife and two daughters.
 
