KOLKATA: A 35-year-old woman and her nine-month-old boy, strapped around her waist, were found dead inside the bedroom of their flat at a fairly upscale housing complex in   on Wednesday evening.

 The woman had a dupatta wrapped around her neck when family members and neighbours spotted her lying on the floor. A portion of the same dupatta was strung to the ceiling. 
 
 Police suspect, the woman had committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan, but unable to hold her weight, the dupatta tore and the woman fell on the bed. 
 
 The door of the bedroom was locked from the inside and it was the woman’s elder son, aged eight, who first spotted her lying on the bed around 6.30pm while peeping through a window. The baby was lying sandwiched between her abdomen and the bed.
 
 Police have sent both bodies for postmortem to know the exact cause and events leading to the death. No note was found, but with the nature of death, police suspect this to be a case of suicide. Police have detained the woman’s husband and in-laws and were questioning them till late into Wednesday to find what may have led the woman to take her life.
 
 The shocking incident rocked   at EE Block in Salt Lake. The victim, Poulami Rauth, lived in one of the rented 850sqft flats with her husband, two children and elderly in-laws. 
 
 Police said when the incident happened, the woman’s in-laws were in the next room of the two-bedroom apartment, watching television. 
 
 “The in-laws have said the victim returned home around 5pm after fetching her son from school. The boy went to play downstairs soon after and Rauth closed the door of her bedroom. It was only around 6.30pm that the chld returned and began banging on the door to be let in. When she did not answer, the boy peeped through a window and found her lying on the bed,” said an officer of   police station.
 
 Alerted by their grandson, Rauth’s in-laws then called neighbours, who broke open the door to find the woman and the child dead. “The postmortem report will be crucial to find out if the woman had killed the baby first and then committed suicide or if the baby died because of the impact of her falling on the floor,” said the investigating officer.
 
 Cops took the boy, a student of Class II, to the police station for questioning. “Once he is in a better mental state, we will ask him if there were any specific reasons or any recent fight at home that may have driven the woman towards suicide,” said another officer.
 
 The Rauths had started living on the third floor of the G+4 building since 2014. Her husband Anup is a senior engineer at a IT firm in Sector V.
 
 “They did not mix much with others in the complex, but I have never heard any screams or shouts of fighting from their home. They seemed like a happy family. The older child used to play with the other children in the complex,” said Mala Ghosh, who lives in an adjacent flat in the complex.
 
 Another neighbour,  , said the in-laws usually stay in Varanasi and came here barely three weeks ago.
 
