MUMBAI: He's already seen plenty of success in the nine months he's been coach of the Afghanistan team. But in a conversation with TOI,   recalls the 'brainfade' that led to his team's narrow defeat at the hands of Zimbabwe in an ODI at Harare on February 21.Amid the disappointment, the former India and Mumbai opener believes his boys had learnt their biggest cricketing lesson that day .

 “We were 107 for four, chasing 130, but lost six wickets for 19 runs to lose the match by three runs, despite 20 overs in the bank,” Rajput rues. “All our batsmen went to hit big shots, and kept perishing as a result.
 
 “`You've to give the bowler respect. You don't have to hit every ball for a boundary. Don't take cricket for granted. It's a game which will make a hero and a zero out of you,' I told them that day. Now, they've realised that no match is won unless you have taken the last wicket or scored the last run. They now look to bat sensibly in the middle.”
 
 While such collapses can be put down to inexperience, Afghanistan are still a team full of promise and stand out as the best in the world of associate teams.
 
 Having won 11 T20 Internationals in a row, they're currently on the best-ever winning streak in this format (England and Ireland earlier held the joint record of eight consecutive T20 wins). The sensational run began during the WorldT20 in March last year when they scored an upset win over eventual champions West Indies in Nagpur. It continued with a 3-0 blanking of Ireland in   - their 'home venue' earlier this month.
 
 India's contribution to the Asian nation taking rapid strides in cricket goes beyond providing a 'home' for the country's strife-torn cricketers. Having failed in the race to become the India coach, Rajput became Afghanistan's coach last June and since then, the results achieved by   & co have been remarkable.
 
 Under Rajput, Afghanistan began by beating Scotland 1-0 in a two-match ODI series, before drawing 2-2 in a five-game ODI series with Ireland (one game rained off). They concluded the three-stop overseas tour with a win in the I-Cup (four-day game against Netherlands).
 
 “The Afghan players understand and can speak in Hindi, so it was easy for me. Our cultures are similar. Initially, though, I'd get the names of the players mixed up,” says Rajput.
 
 In September last year, Afghanistan travelled to Bangladesh and lost 2-1 to the hosts in an ODI series but bounced back to beat Zimbabwe 3-2 despite the narrow loss in that third game. Next up was a T20I series against UAE, which they swept 3-0, and the 'Desert Cup' which they clinched by winning five games in a row. In the home series against Ireland, Afghanistan have so far beaten the visitors in both the T20 (3-0), and the ODI (3-2) series.
 
 “Unlike before, we're winning more consistently now,” Rajput says about Afghanistan's upswing. “I've told the batsman to score big. Two of our players (all-rounder   and leg-spinner Rashid Khan) will play in the IPL. That has motivated the other players to excel too.”
 
 One of the first things the 55-year-old stressed on after taking charge was improving the fitness level of the side. “Our boys are mentally becoming stronger now, reading the game better. Their fitness level is better, because I told them that to play a higher grade of cricket, you've to be physically fit.
 
 “Since they belong to a strife”-torn nation, these boys are mentally tough,” he feels.
 
