PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on Wednesday afternoon started work on   of the channels (median-like structures) under the   Amrutanjan bridge on the   to  .

 Container trucks often get stuck in between the retaining wall and the the cement concrete channels because of their long chassis. They also require space to turn which is not convenient at the spot.
 
 An additional width of one to two feet has now been created for heavy vehicles after hacking away the portions of the median. Work has started on the Pune corridor of the expressway. 
 
 Authorities expect to start on the Mumbai corridor in two days. The work will go on beyond the weekend. No traffic diversions were imposed on Thursday for the work, MSRDC authorities told TOI. 
 
 In its issue on May 23, TOI had published a report on how heavy vehicles heading towards Mumbai from Pune slow down under   as the cement channels occupy a chunk of the carriageway and drivers find it difficult to manoeuvre their vehicles. 
 
 Such driving holds up the traffic following the vehicles. Many heavy vehicles heading towards Mumbai from Pune fail to apply the brakes or lose control while negotiating this spot, often leading to upending of vehicles. 
 
 A solution to the problem lay in creating additional space by reducing the width of the cement channels so that vehicles can manoeuvre the turns with ease. 
 
 The state Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) and MSRDC officials met about 15 days ago to discuss the matter but it gained some decisive shape after TOI’s report. 
 
 The authorities said the additional space created will allow heavy vehicles to turn appropriately on both the corridors of the expressway. “We have executed many projects to facilitate movements of the small vehicles on the expressway, but nothing was done for heavy vehicles, so far,” a senior HSP officer said.
 
 MSRDC officials said the channels were constructed a decade ago for heavy vehicles but now it has been realized that they are the root cause for traffic jams and their size must be reduced. “We will wait for the results,” the officer said.
 
