NEW DELHI:   is the pivotal topic on which the campaign for the municipal polls in April will revolve. Whatever work the BJP-led civic bodies have undertaken, or did not, in the five years since 2012 will be assessed through the prism of not just their own revenue-generation efficiency, but also the funds given by the   government. And it isn’t surprising that the   are constantly attributing the cash-induced sluggishness in development work and services to the government not providing the mandated financial assistance.

 The trifurcation of the   in 2012, and the uneven geographical demarcation this entailed, made the South Delhi Municipal Corporation financially viable with affluent colonies, but left the civic bodies in the north and east at a disadvantage. “After trifurcation, we were to start with a Rs 0 opening balance, but the financial aid given to us was categorised as loans,” complained Subhash Arya, leader of the House, south corporation. He added that the promised disbursements under the Municipal Reforms Funds (MRF) were not made regularly either.
 
 Corporation officials, however, flag the non-implementation of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendation as the main cause of the financial morass. Under the third finance panel’s award, implemented in 2008, the five urban local bodies are entitled to 10.5% of Delhi government’s total tax collection. Of this, the three municipal corporations get 97%, and the remaining 3% goes to Delhi Cantonment Board and New Delhi Municipal Council. Of the 10.5%, 1.5% is disbursed as MRF once the corporations meet certain norms. The fourth panel, which finalised its report in 2012, hiked the share of taxes to 12.5%, but this hasn’t been implemented.
 
 In 2016-17, south corporation got Rs 997.8 crore from the state as grants and MRF (against self-generated revenues of Rs 2,798 crore), the north corporation, Rs 1,048 crore (Rs 1,703 crore) and east corporation, Rs 604 crore (Rs 575.9 crore).
 
 Satya Sharma, mayor of the east corporation, said the new tax sharing formula should have been implemented in 2012. “Our expenditure has increased every year, but we still receive funds based on calculations done by the finance commission constituted in 2008,” she said. Mohanjeet Singh, commissioner, added that large swathes in east Delhi fell in the low-yield E and F categories of property taxation or were illegal colonies in which the civic body was found to provide basic sanitation services.
 
 
