NEW DELHI: Even as the state election commission announced that municipal elections in Delhi will be held on April 22, the BJP decided on a major move to beat anti-incumbency — the party will field new faces, most of them young, on all seats.

 The BJP, which rules all three  , said it will not give tickets to any sitting councillor or their relatives. The party is likely to announce its candidate list by March 22.
 
 “We want to bring an army of new people, mainly youth, who can take forward the policy of PM Narendra Modi for new India. It is a unanimous decision of the party,” said Delhi BJP chief   in the presence of the party’s city MPs Harsh Vardhan, Maheish Girri, Parvesh Verma and Udit Raj.
 
 The decision was taken at a recent meeting of core group members with BJP chief Amit Shah. The party has to fight strong anti-incumbency against it as it has not been able to do much work despite being in power in the corporations for a decade. Both AAP and Congress have been targeting the party for its inefficiency and corruption in the corporations.
 
 Delhi BJP has organised an event at Ramlila Maidan on March 19, expected to be attended by nearly 60,000 booth-level workers, to prepare for upcoming polls. The move, BJP members say, will nullify the attack by its rivals and help the party start “afresh”. Tiwari said the decision to field fresh faces was taken to project BJP’s commitment to provide corruptionfree governance and counter anti-incumbency against its councillors.
 
 “A lot of our councillors have done good work. But an image has been formed where MCD is being projected as a corrupt body. We want to change that,” said Tiwari.
 
 The party is likely to announce its candidates by next week. “We are planning to announce the candidates’ list by March 22, as we want to give our candidates adequate time to campaign,” said Tiwari. The move is also seen as an attempt by the party leadership to develop state-level leadership by “infusing fresh blood”, as lack of leadership in the state has been one a serious concern within the party. BJP members admit there is a need to re-energise the cadre to strengthen the party’s base in the city.
 
 The elevation of Northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari to the post of state chief was the first step towards restructuring the unit in Delhi and strengthen AAP’s votebank by garnering the support of slum and unauthorized colony voters. Riding high on the party’s recent electoral victory, BJP is optimistic that the decision will further help the party garner the support of sections which till now didn’t vote for it. The decision, however, has not gone down well with sitting councillors as it will mark the end of the political careers of many of them. On Tuesday, many councillors objected to the party’s decision before Tiwari. 
 
 Despite the anger, sources say, not many are planning to take up the issue with the senior leadership as the decision has Shah’s stamp of approval. Speaking to TOI, some councillors said the move will only strengthen AAP and Congress’ allegations of corruption against BJP. But Tiwari struck an optimistic note. “The entire party will work together. We have to give a chance to young people and all sitting councillors will understand it,” he said.
 
