Bhopal: IPS officer  , whose transfer has triggered unprecedented public protests in MP’s Katni, joined as SP Chhindwara on Sunday and said that he had “never worked under political pressure”.

 His transfer was an administrative decision, he said, even as protests continued in Katni. Tiwari was transferred while investigating an alleged hawala scam in which some BJP leaders names have cropped up.
 
 “Only the place has changed. I will continue working as I did in Katni,” he said, adding: “There should be terror of police among criminals so that people can sleep peacefully.”
 
 Tiwari’s transfer has triggered outrage on social media as well, with Paris-based artist Jivan Singh aka Jinan releasing an artwork showing Tiwari’s face dripping blood, which he has labelled: ‘political violence’. Back in Katni, children aged 8-12 years joined a large rally demanding his reinstatement. They held placards that said: ‘We want Gaurav sir back’. A counter rally on vehicles and a candle-light march were held by minister Sanjay Pathak’s supporters. Pathak maintains that he is being targeted by rivals and subjected to “undue media trial”.
 
 On Saturday, 15 AAP members were arrested and sent to jail in Katni district for protesting against Tiwari’s transfer. On Friday, more than 200 people, mostly women, had taken out a rally. A group of social organisations is likely to hold a ‘rail roko andolan’ on Monday.
 
 The 2010-batch IPS officer was investigating some influential BJP leaders for their alleged links with a Rs 500-crore money laundering racket. The MP government has written to Enforcement Directorate to look into the matter after a public outcry. The state Congress is gunning for Pathak, the MSME minister, for “trying to get Tiwari shifted out”.
 
 The sensational case involving big transactions in fictitious accounts surfaced a few months ago following a complaint from a farmer that unidentified people had made transactions of Rs 90 lakh from a Jan Dhan account opened in his name at an Axis Bank branch in Katni. He came to know of the transactions only after receiving an Income Tax (I-T) notice, said police.
 
 Another person made a similar complaint, alleging cash transaction of Rs 16 lakh through a savings account opened in his name at the same branch. The matter was initially brushed under the carpet. But when Tiwari took charge, he reopened the case and found 32 accounts through which massive transactions had been carried out. These accounts were opened in the name of BPL cardholders as well as small and micro enterprises (MSMEs).
 
 Investigations revealed that such accounts were opened by some mining barons. Tiwari's transfer had created a flutter in the IPS circles. 
 
 
