NEW DELHI: The issue of   among Muslims is not in consonance and uniformity with Islamic laws, law commission chairman Justice BS Chauhan told TOI in the context of an ongoing debate on its constitutional validity. 

 The law commission is currently preparing its views on the issue on a reference made by the Kerala high court. 
 
 The  , too, is looking into the constitutional validity of triple talaq and polygamy after several women’s groups challenged the Muslim practice. 
 
 The petitioners had demanded scrapping of Section 2 of the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 as they said it was unconstitutional and violated the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. 
 
 Justice Chauhan said as many as 18 Islamic countries, including Pakistan and Turkey, have regulated triple talaq and some have even banned it. Many others have reformed personal laws requiring a 90-day waiting period after utterance of first talaq, in addition to a scrutiny by a quasi-judicial authority. 
 
 “In these countries, triple talaq is no ground for automatic divorce. A person has to approach the court to validate it. We are studying if this can be done in India,” Justice Chauhan said. 
 
 His observations are significant considering that the law panel is currently preparing a report on   (UCC) where triple talaq is one of the issues under study.
 
 Various stakeholders, including   and political parties have been asked to give their response. The law commission has received 40,000 responses on UCC. 
 
 “We are examining and analysing the responses before initiating discussions with various stakeholders,” Justice Chauhan said, clarifying that the report on UCC was not on triple talaq, but it was just one of the issues under the consideration of the commission as part of recommendations on UCC. 
 
 The law commission is likely to review the 80-year-old Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act and a judgment of the Bombay high court by Justice M C Chagla that had upheld the validity of the Act giving freedom to Muslims to be governed by personal law and the practice of polygamy.
 
 Section 3 of the Shariat Act prescribes that a person willing to avail the benefit of being governed by the Muslim personal law and the provisions of Section 2 on marriage, dissolution of marriage and talaq, etc should declare in a prescribed form before a prescribed authority that he wants to obtain the benefits of Section 2 of the Act. Mere utterance of talaq thrice is not sufficient ground for divorce even under the Shariat law, as it reads. 
 
 The government, which had earlier submitted an affidavit before the apex court opposing triple talaq, had argued that the issue of triple talaq deals with only gender justice and thus it is a question of protection of fundamental rights of Muslim women. It said that practices that are discriminatory should be regulated under the law. The plea of sanctity under Shariat is totally misplaced, it had said.
 
 
