 on stage. Sounds strange? Experience this: A performance that dovetails facets of music and   with that of films, creating a new craft that leaves the audience more dreamy than thoughtful. A series of dance-theatre pieces, the narrative technique of Tales of Twenty Dodgy Fingers is described as a ‘cinematic movement’. Presented in the form of short episodes, these tales scrutinizes cinema’s possibilities of worldness on movement arts.
It is a collaborative piece by artistes Maya Oliva and  , who attempt to show what happens when movies are seen as choreographies. They believe that “film art has a tangible specificity in details that can absorb the spectator into its world”.
 Born in Italy, Maya is a dancer-choreographer currently based in Belgium, while Karoliina is a dance artiste from Finland. The duo, who are in India as part of a cultural-exchange programme, are in Bengaluru conducting workshops at Shoonya — Centre for Art and Somatic Practices, which will be followed by a performance.
 Inspired by a host of films and animation works, the artistes strive to showcase how films are capable of creating environments with visual virtuosity and distinct soundscapes. “The plot is divided into chapters that follow the life of a villain, whose psyche is split into two — essayed by two characters on stage. The story is a blend of music, drama and cinema interspersed with elements of dream. The performance, which was first crafted three years ago, focuses on the power of imagery and how visuals can impact the mind,” explains Maya, adding, “It is like injecting the unreal into reality and twisting animation in live movement.”
 So, is the theme of the performance too grave? “Actually, not. It gives the vibes of a thriller film unfolding on stage, juxtaposed by a humourous phase,” says Karoliina. The piece draws inspiration from the Alfred Hitchcock-style of filmmaking, while it also bows to Hayao Miyazaki’s multiple imaginary worlds and the vivid storytelling traditions of India.
 Commenting on the performance-movement arts scene in India, Karoliina says, “It’s a close-knit circuit where everyone seems very supportive and willing to cooperate and try out new forms.”
 
 
