Ghaziabad: Three days after the   hit-and-run case, the mystery continued over who was at the wheel of the car that crushed an auto killing four occupants on Friday midnight.

 According to the police, there has been no headway regarding the location of the main suspect in the accident, Dr  , as his mobile phone has been switched off since early Monday morning.
 
 Following TOI’s report on Monday, the police confirmed the possibility of a relationship between IAS officer Akshay Tripathi’s family living in flat number 902 and Manish Rawat, a neurosurgeon with Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. 
 
 However, the police have not been able to arrest anyone so far, and merely claimed their investigation was on.
 
 Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Indirapuram police station, said, “We still think that Manish Rawat has a link to the society and stays there, otherwise, how could he have obtained a parking sticker for his Audi car?”
 
 When reminded about the IAS family living in flat number 902, Pradeep Tripathi said, “We think that Manish Rawat is related to the Tripathi family living in that flat. We’re still trying to ascertain that.”
 
 However, the RWA officials of   residential society indicated a different possibility. When asked about the accident vehicle (Audi Q7) sporting an Olive County parking sticker with the address of the flat mentioned on it, KVS Tyagi, RWA president, said, “After your call we tried to find out from our property consultant about the real occupants of that flat, and they suggested that the name on the contract between the tenant and the landlord is of K B Tripathi and the flat was granted on lease to him.”
 
 Tyagi said that K B Tripathi sometimes used to visit and live in that flat along with his IAS son Akshay and his family. “We think that Manish Rawat is K B Tripathi’s son-in-law and used to visit them frequently in the flat and might possibly have been living in the flat for a longer duration of time.”
 
 “K B Tripathi would possibly have rented a different parking spot to accommodate the Audi somewhere on the society premises and that perhaps is why the car had a parking sticker of the society on it with the number 1812 on it,” Tyagi said.
 
 When asked about the location of the parking spot in the society, Tyagi said, “It is very difficult to say that because the basement is huge, but it could be close to the A-5 tower itself.”
 
 Incidentally, a parking ticket is granted only to cars which frequently visit the society, are identifiable to the society’s security and need a parking slot on the society premises for a long time. “The parking ticket is provided after looking at the property papers or the rent agreement by the security guards of the society.”
 
 However, no one in the security could recall having seen the Audi car before. TOI could not get through to K B Tripathi as his mobile number was switched off.
 
 
