The steep incline of a   that abruptly dips into a  , the foam sprayed by wheels spinning stubbornly in the water and the adrenaline rush caused by a steep precipice looming right ahead. For an off-roader, this is just another ride. The extreme   of off-roading brought a group of people from across India in Ropar for a   packed with action.
One of the participants, the  , has been skimming remote and difficult areas in India since 2008. Whether it is rocky patches, mountains, slush or sand ­ they have seen it all.
 
 The group was started by Kabir Waraich, Kirpal Singh Tung, Dushyant Khosla, Padam Chauhan and Karan Bali. In November 2016, Gurmeet Singh Virdi and Kirpal Singh Tung won the RFC 2016 Grand Final in Malaysia in the diesel category.
 
 They also became the first Indians to win the RFC 2016 Grand Final in Goa (June-July). With all its thrills, off-roading is a stress-buster for those who practice it.Gurmeet Virdi, 39, who started off-roading in 2011, says he was always passionate about cars.
 
 “Off-Roading is like a stress-buster for me. It gives me such a thrill.You get to explore new places. I remember we went to Arunachal Pradesh for a competition and it was mesmerising. It takes you away from routine woes and re freshes you.“ But for all its romance, off-roading is not about taking off to tough terrain on a jeep. Modifications are needed to travel on terrains exceed ing the capabilities of the original configuration.
 
 “You have to have light engines, so that the car does not weigh much and you can easily ride through the obstacles. I use a Baleno engine in my car. The downside is that the equipment is very expensive. A good pair of shockers will cost nearly Rs 4 lakh. On an average, the total cost comes out to be Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh,“ Gurmeet said.
 
 Another danger with off-roading is damage to the vehicle, which frequently hits rocks on uneven terrain. If not handled properly , it can be very dangerous for the offroader. Even with the best of protection, off-roaders must be prepared to deal with a few injuries. “We always take immaculate safety measures during competitions. The drivers have to take care of minute details,“ says Lokesh, an off-roader from Bengaluru. The sport, that involves a high degree of danger needs great team-spirit. “You need to have unflinching faith in your partner. Anything less than that will cause a disaster. When you are in the field, your off-roading buddy comes to your help,“ he adds.
 
