PUNE: A   here has disposed of a former naval commander’s discharge application while ordering that he must   in a case of rape and cheating lodged with the   in 2013 by an   

 In her FIR lodged on March 25, 2013, the complainant alleged that the accused kept physical relations with her after they met through a matrimonial site and decided to marry each other. She alleged that the accused compelled her to undergo an abortion and refused to marry her on the pretext that his children were opposed to their marriage. 
 
 The case is at the stage of framing of charges by the trial court after the police probed the matter and filed a chargesheet. 
 
 In 2015, the accused had moved an application in the sessions court through lawyer Shrikant Shivade, seeking discharge from the case on the grounds that the allegations did not cover the essential ingredients of rape and cheating offences as the woman was a consenting party to physical relation and nowhere claimed in her plaint that she was forced to do such act. That, she had prior knowledge about his previous marriage, children and was never deceived. There was no prima facie evidence for framing of charges against him. 
 
 Additional public prosecutor Sunil Hande, assisted by the woman’s lawyer, Gaurav Jachak, opposed the plea, arguing that the accused kept physical relationship with her on the promise of marriage, forced her to an abortion and failed to keep his promise despite attempts by the women grievance cell of the Pune police’s social security branch to resolve their issue. 
 
 Additional sessions judge Mohammad Nasir M Salim referred to the total effect of the evidence on record, including SMS’, chats and e-mails exchanged by the two, and held on May 12 that there was enough prima facie evidence and grounds for framing of charges of rape and cheating against the accused. 
 
 On the promise of marriage, the judge held, “The fact that the accused and the complainant enrolled themselves on a matrimonial site makes it prima facie evident that the accused put the marriage proposal before the complainant and the latter appears to have accepted the same.”
 
 On the consent to physical relation, he said, “Obtaining consent by making false promise of marriage amounts to cheating or deception which leads to misconception of fact. The accused from the beginning acted malafidely for seducing her to have sexual act by making a false promise. Section 90 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) provides that any consent given under the misconception of fact, would not be considered as a valid consent so far as provisions of section 375 (which defines rape) IPC, and thus, such physical relationship would tantamount to committing rape.”
 
 Shivade told TOI, “We will challenge the order in the Bombay high court as we feel invoking the charge under Section 376 is an absurdity considering the overall circumstances of the case.” 
 
 The complainant’s lawyer, Jachak, said, “The court will now proceed with framing of charges in the case.”
 
