NEW DELHI: Days before its annual   meeting with Pakistan in Lahore, India has stepped up efforts to build adequate infrastructure to utilise its legitimate share of water from the eastern rivers (Ravi, Beas and Sutlej) of the Indus system. Giving impetus to the move, two states, Jammu & Kashmir and  , on Friday reached an agreement to resume work on the ambitious Shahpur Kandi dam project.

 The 55.5m high dam, located in Gurdaspur district of Punjab, will help in providing irrigation facility to 5,000 hectares of land in Punjab and 32,173 hectares in J&K, besides generation of 206 MW power. The construction of Shahpur Kandi project was taken up in May 1999 but later halted in 2014 due to dispute between Punjab and J&K.
 
 The move to resume work will give a boost to the country’s strategy to utilise its entire share of water under the Indus Water Treaty (IWT).
 
 Though India had decided not to engage with Pakistan through Indus Water Commission post-Uri terror attack last year, it has recently decided to resume the dialogue through the commission whose next meeting will be held in Lahore later this month. The commission is a mechanism to resolve any dispute between the two countries over sharing of waters of the Indus river under the IWT. Under the IWT, signed between the two countries in 1960, the waters of eastern rivers are allocated to India.
 
 Though India is under obligation to let the water of the western rivers (Indus, Jhelum and  ) flow, it is permitted to construct storage of water on western rivers up to 3.6 million acre feet for various purposes, including domestic use. India has, however, not developed any storage facility so far. India has also not tapped its full quota of water for irrigation under the treaty.
 
 Looking to fully exploit its rights under IWT, a high-level inter-ministerial task force had in December 2016 decided to bring Punjab and J&K on board for speeding up work on the ground through better coordination. Accordingly, both the states agreed to resume work on Shahpur Kandi dam project. The agreement to this effect was signed by Punjab irrigation secretary KS Pannu and his J&K counterpart Saurabh Bhagat in the presence of Union water resources secretary Amarjit Singh here on Friday. The project will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 2,285.81 crore (April, 2008 price level). Though it would be constructed as per agreed design, a model study will concurrently be done to ensure that the mandated share of 1,150 cusecs of water is available to J&K, which will be binding on both the states.
 
 Besides the Shahpur Kandi dam project, the task force had in December, 2016 also prioritised the proposed hydro-power projects on Chenab and its tributary — Sawalkot (1,856 MW), Pakal Dul (1,000 MW) and Bursar (800 MW) — for execution in a time-bound manner.
 
 
