NEW DELHI: The north campus of Delhi University on Thursday remained barricaded and patrolled by the police for better part of the day, but no violence ensued despite protests by two separate student factions of NSUI and ABVP.

 The protests were held at the Law Faculty around noon amid heavy police presence as cops were seen in columns, prepared for any untoward incident. However, because the NSUI protests were organised outside the campus, and ABVP inside, the two did not come face to face. 
 
 NSUI, in protest against Wednesday’s violence, carried out a march calling for peace between the left and the right factions. “We might have different ideologies, but never has it happened in DU that protestors cannot hear what is being said by the other side. It is unfortunate that this violence took place. Around 90% students of Delhi University are peace loving and come to the campus to study in a liberal space,” said  , national president NSUI. 
 
 She added that the students must shift focus from the political agenda to more pressing issues. “We must focus and initiate talk on the state of education in the country. Instead, some fascist elements use fear tactics to create an atmosphere of submission and silence those who dissent,” said Dhawan. 
 
 While the NSUI sat in protest outside the Arts Faculty gate, members of the ABVP organised a counter protest and marched inside the campus near the   statue.
 
 Addressing the crowd,   president   said they will continue to protest against “any anti-national elements” at DU.
 
 Attacking the protesters for allegedly raising slogans of ‘Azaadi’ on Wednesday, Tanwar asked “why do they always ask for freedom. What more freedom do they need? There is enough freedom in the country,” he said. He reiterated that the students of Ramjas went on with the seminar even after the administration had cancelled it. 
 
 “Those in the Left often create all the problems and act as victims, while they themselves are involved in attacking others and abusing us,” claimed Tanwar.
 
 
