 (VC), co-founded by Apoorv Sharma, one of the original investors of  , is picking up 15%-20% stake each in three startups Chai Break, Ornativa and Onn Bikes this month, out of which the first two are from Kolkata. The combined investments in these would be Rs 13-15 crore. VC, an integrated startup incubation and funding platform, is also the original investor of Beardo and Flickstree.
 
  Former Indian captain   is a co-investor in Flickstree while Marico is now a major investor in Beardo. Incidentally, Flickstree is also a Kolkata-based startup identified by VC.
  
  Sharma told TOI that VC is giving a special focus to east as a part of its strategy to create startup ecosystem in the region. With 3,000 investors in its platform, VC has so far invested in 25 startups and incubated over 50 startups. The total investment made by the platform is Rs 60 crore. “We generally invest Rs 2-6 crore in the first stage of funding of startups which is much more than usual seed-funding of Rs 60-80 lakh by angel investors. In fact, a lot of angel investors are now part of Venture Catalysts,” he added.
  
  For eastern region, the integrated startup platform is working with Rahul Agarwal, the founder of Ideal Insurance Broking. Elaborating about the city startups, Agarwal said Chai Break is fast-growing F&B brand in east India. It’s a chain of casual dining restaurants along with online delivery that serves 30 varieties of tea, coffee and its proprietary dishes — fusion of Indian & continental taste. “The company is scaling up very rapidly with 11 outlets running and is already making profits with last year’s revenue of Rs 13 crore,” he added. Chai Break is promoted by Anirudh Poddar and Aditya Ladsariya.
  
  Commenting on Onn Bikes, Agarwal said it is like Zoom Cars for bike. According to him, Onn Bikes is a self-drive motorbike rental platform. One can rent a bike on hourly, daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly basis. “The firm completed 50,000 rides with 1000+ bikes in the last six months with monthly revenue of Rs 45 lakh. It is founded by ex-consultants from PwC & ex-engineers from Infosys, and advised by CXOs from Bank of America, PwC & Bombay Dyeing,” he added.
  
  Onn Bikes is promoted by   and S Munoth. Meanwhile, Nabarun Chakraborty promoted Ornativa is a premium fashion jewellery brand. It creates designs inspired by global fashion trends to make young women look beautiful and elegant each and every day.
  
  It is backed by Shopclues, and incubated by Spark10 Accelerator and ISDI Creative Accelerator — Microsoft Ventures.
