HYDERABAD: There have been at least two episodes of heavy downpour in Hyderabad in the last 20 days, and yet neither   nor   received any significant inflows. This is the sad state of affairs of these two historic lakes that have incidentally the largest catchment area for any artificial water body in the world.

 The history of the ancient fort city of   and later, Hyderabad has been closely intertwined with two small rivers ­ Musi and Esi. And in the last 100 years the artificial lakes created by impounding these rivers (Osman Sagar on Musi, and Himayat Sagar on Esi) have been sustaining parts of fast developing city . Sadly, Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar, which have been witness to the progress of modern Hyderabad, may not survive for long thanks to gradual decline in their inflows. Environmental experts have fixed the D-Day for the lakes ­ 2036 for Himayat Sagar and 2040 for Osman Sagar.
 
 The next generation of Hyderabadis may not see these two historic water bodies brimming with pristine waters and aquatic life. These lakes will be dead in the next two decades if no remedial measures are initi ated now to ensure that at least 50 per cent of the rainfall in their catchment flows into the reservoirs. The lakes once served as a retreat for the   and the members of the royal family and the nobles. The Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had built a resort called   as the air and water in the vicinity were pure and enlivening. Today this is not the case.Pollution and encroachments have taken a heavy toll on the ecology and environment as well as the atmosphere surrounding Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar in the last two decades. The situation has only worsened in the past five years.
 
 “Both lakes were designed scientifically with sluice gates, which when lifted, will ensure that silt does not stay in the dam. The lakes are located about 100 ft above Hyderabad. This will ensure piped water is supplied to the city through gravity without the need for electricity.The catchment area of Himayat Sagar is 1346 sq km and that of Osman Sagar is 736 sq km. But this is only on paper as much ofcatchment has been lost to encroachments,“ says city historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah.
 
 Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar are more than mere water bodies that have been quen ching the thirst of lakhs of Hyderabadis. The history of Hyderabad ­ social and cultural ­ is closely linked to these lakes. In fact, it was the Great Deluge of the Musi on September 28, 1908 that had forced the Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, to find permanent solution to the flooding of Hyderabad. His successor, Mir Osman Ali Khan, executed flood control plan by damming Musi in 1920 (Osman Sagar) and Esi in 1927 (Himayat Sagar). The Deluge had killed about 15000 people.
 
 A Central Water Commission report blames “inconsiderate management of the catchment“ for the decrease in in flows into Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar. The inflows came down gradually in the last 40 years despite there being no change in quantity of rainfall.
 
 The Musi had found a mention in all the travelogues of foreign tourists visiting Hyderabad during the   and Asaf Jahi periods. All praised its crystal clear waters. This is not the case so now. Incidentally, Musi (named after  ) and Esi (named after Jesus Christ) are the only rivers in India that carry Arabic names. Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar are the only lakes constructed in Hyderabad in the last 100 years.
 
