HYDERABAD: The Confederation of Voluntary Associations ( ), the implementing agency of the   High Commissioner for Refugees has cautioned wellmeaning individuals to be careful with their donations for   refugees.

 The appeal comes days after the Rohingya crisis in Myanmar exacerbated and the Centre filed an affidavit in the   for deportation of refugees from India, citing security threats. The situation has led to the outpouring of support from various quarters irrespective of religious affiliation. While several peaceful protests were staged by several organisations and individuals and resolutions were passed, the violence, which resulted in the displacement of thousands, has also witnessed several people seeking funds to help the refugees.
 
 Now COVA has urged all those who are interested in helping the Rohingya refugees to donate to the   Special Rohingya Fund. “We recommend that funds intended for Rohingya Refugees (displaced in the past month and who are mostly located in Bangladesh) could be given to UNHCR Special Rohingya Fund through online transfers,” reads an excerpt from a media communication from the  .
 
 The non-government organisation cautioned well-wishers sending funds to organisations in Myanmar or Bangladesh to help Rohingyas could have serious repercussions. “Many have asked if there are any organisations working with Rohingyas in Myanmar or Bangladesh to whom they can send funds or give it to some organisations in India, who in turn will send to some organisations in Bangladesh. The fact is this is not allowed and could have legal complications,” another excerpt reads.
 
 The organisation has noted that several appeals for funds are being circulated on social media. “Some individuals and organisations have started appealing for funds not only for Rohingya refugees in Myanmar and Bangladesh but also for Rohingyas in other locations in different countries, in a bid to encash the current wave of sympathy,” the communication reads.
 
 When contacted, Mazhar Hussain from COVA said, “It is best to donate to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. This is the safest way to help the Rohingyas.” There are around 3,800 Rohingya refugees living in different parts of the city. While most of them are daily-wage earners, they have also been recipients of donations by several residents. Ever since what many have described as ethnic cleansing in Myanmar began, the support for the Rohingyas has swelled. Several organisations such as the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Jamiat-eUlama and others have come out to condemn the regime in the country. 
 
