Had she started with the song Don’t Cry For Me Argentina by  , it would have been the end of the show at the beginning. But the ace performer that she is, 61-year-old   Prabhakar preferred to keep things under wraps, slowly unveiling the chapters of her life one at a time, and saved the 1978 chartbuster for the last to summarise her life story. And the audience swayed with her as the   hitmaker touched upon details that probably even the closest of her friends didn’t know about her glitzy yet giddy life.

 Recently at the city to perform the 85-minute-long mono act titled That’s Life, Sharon bared her heart on an array of subjects. From Indi-pop’s untimely demise, the questionable mindset of people helming film censorship in the country to the “addictive drug” called Bollywood, the Do Re Me singer had a thing or two to say about everything. 
 
 Biopics give people hope
 For me, the recent phenomenon of making biopics in Bollywood is a good thing for the simple reason that it evokes hope. See, we are living in such vulnerable times that we welcome whatever gives us hope. Of all compliments I have received after That's Life, one stood out for me: ‘Sharon, it takes nerves of steel to strip oneself on stage and unveil the darkest secrets of one’s life with a pinch of humour and you did that with so much honesty and grace that we are inspired; you made us see hope in our mistakes’. I think biopics do the same thing — strip off artificiality. 
 
 Let actors sing and vice versa; there is space for everybody
 Let a thousand lilies bloom; let’s not be territorial. There is enough space for everybody in this industry. Everyone brings in their strength when they do something they like. For instance, I am not as young as Alia (Bhat) or   ( ), so, I could look at it as a disadvantage and whine over it but no, when I am performing on stage, I bring my own strength to it. For example, my comedy timing is superb; I wonder how many of today’s youngsters have it (laughs). If actors are giving singing a try, let them. What’s the harm if something good comes out of it? 
 
 The people we have hired to censor films need to change their mindset
 Censorship in India today is immature. Irrespective of the government at the Centre, the people hired to helm censorship affairs need to change their mindset. They seem like to be in a zone where they think everything they are doing is right, no matter how many times we tell them from the outside that this isn’t. Rather than ‘us’ trying to change them, ‘they’ need to change their mindset, which I don’t think will happen anytime soon. 
 
 Indi-pop is not dead; it has evolved into something new
 I feel it all happened when I got tired and took a two-year sabbatical (laughs). Actually no, I think it's not dead. There is still an audience, which appreciated sheer excellence. Excellence will always have a market; be it Bollywood OST, Indi-pop, bhangra. When people venture out to write a book or sing a song, they must tell themselves, ‘See, I am only going to do what I am good at’; that solves half the problems. I won’t say I have been a success, but if you are true to your art, you will always get a captive audience. Indi-pop is not dead; it has evolved into something new. 
 
 There is no luck, lottery or rules in Bollywood
 Bollywood is a difficult place to be. If you are planning to enter Bollywood, you must have nerves of steel. Bollywood is a heady mix of glamour, stardom, money and fame. There is no such thing as luck, lottery or rules in Bollywood; nothing happens there by chance. If you want to be successful there, you need to show sheer grit and tenacity. It’s a dangerous addiction! 
 
 
