HYDERABAD: Have you ever come across a major lake that's green during winter and bluegreen during summer? The water in the 400-year-old lake at  , built by the  , actually changes its colour with the season. No, there are no special magical powers working here. The change in colour from green to blue-green highlights the extent of pollution in the historic lake.

 While many water bodies in Hyderabad are plagued mostly by chemical, industrial and sewage contamination, the   suffers from both heavy metal and biological pollution. Apart from the invasive Eichhorrnia (water hyacinth), Saroornagar Lake is dominated by microorganism like zooplankton and phytoplankton to such a high extent that the water has lost its `neutral' character. It is unfit for even animal consumption or washing clothes.One set of microorganism takes control of the lake in summer while another group dominates during winter.
 
 “Free-floating Eichhorrnia has invaded the lake waters.This symbolises excess nutrient load due to human developmental activities. The lake water is green now (winter) due to the presence of phytoplankton, Chlorophyceae. It will gradually turn blue-green as summer sets in, when another phytoplank ton, Cyanophyceae will dominate the lake water. The oxygen in the lake is insufficient due to chemical, industrial, biological and sewage pollution. The lake stinks,“ says researcher Dr K T Padma Priya from  , Hyderabad.
 
 Dr Padma Priya along with Prof P   studied water quality at four different points in the lake every month for over 24 months and concluded that the lake is dead due to several factors including eutrophication. The size of the water body has also been reduced by half due to encroachments.The catchment of the lake has also been encroached upon.
 
 “Lakes are vital resources and they regulate the urban climate. They also play a crucial role in groundwater recharge. Sewage discharge, improper agricultural practices and urban run offs have disrupted the ecosystem of Saroornagar Lake,“ said Padma Priya.
 
 The pH of the lake is 8.37, indicating that the water has turned alkaline. She said the chloride content is 759.8 milligrams per litre. The biological oxygen demand, an important parameter for water quality, is 238.8 mg per litre, when it should be less than 6 mg per litre.
 
