A defiant   Kaur on Monday said she would be there in solidarity with Tuesday's peaceful protest march to be held from SGTB Khalsa College in North Campus on Tuesday . On some people calling her “anti-national“, Kaur said: “Don't call me a martyr's daughter if that bothers you. I never claimed anything otherwise. You can call me Gurmehar. And very famous people are questioning me and calling me anti-national. They don't understand patriotism.“

 Kaur is not only standing her ground, but also actively hashtagging #Studentsagainstrapethreats. “Tuesday , 28 February north campus SGBT KHALSA 12:30 #Studentsagainstrapethreats,“ she posted on Twitter. While there were several retweets supporting her call, there was no dearth of trolls either.
 
 On Monday evening, she also tweeted: “Please consider this tweet as my request for leave of absence. Can't speak anymore, Will speak up on Tuesday #FightBackDU“. To those who trolled her saying her father would be turning in his gra ve, she responded, “My father would have been more than proud of me.Just btw. 20 year old speaking up for rights of her fellow students? Very proud (sic).“ On a BJP MP comparing her with Dawood Ibrahim, Kaur said: “My father took bullet for the country and I too will take the bullet for the country. Dawood Ibrahim used violence. I talked about non-violence and peace.“
 
 Kaur initiated the social media campaign, “I'm Not Afraid of ABVP“ on Wednesday .Cricketer Virender Sehwag on Sunday night tweeted with a placard that read, “I didn't score two triple centuries, my bat did“, along with the message, “Bat me hai Dum ! #BharatJaisiJagahNahi“, which is believed to be in response to Kaur's tweet. Actor Randeep Hooda shared the tweet and added “what's sad is that the poor girl is being used as political pawn and it seems you are a party to it...“
 
 In response to Hooda's tweet, Kaur had this to say. “@RandeepHooda thanks a lot. Really sweet of you to encourage the hate I've been receiving.Makes me feel happy that I adored your work :)“ and “political pawn? I can think. I don't support violence perpetuated on students? Is that so wrong?“ However, Kaur didn't reply to Sehwag on Twitter and instead said: “It broke my heart to see Sehwag's tweet. It's very disappointing as these are celebrities we have grown up watching, shouting out throat out cheering them.“
 
 
 
 The dangerous effects of whipping up an atmosphere of extreme jingoism are illustrated by this episode. When a young girl is so viciously attacked for merely expressing an opinion that was not to the liking of these jingoists, we need to act before it is too late. That even the fact of her being a martyr's daughter did not give the trolls reason to pause, shows the extent to which the rot has spread. What is really unfortunate is the manner in which even MPs and ministers of the ruling party are egging on the attack on the girl. The threats held out must be treated as intimidation and the rape threats must be treated as extreme sexual harassment. Those making these threats must be prosecuted vigorously. The government insists charges of fostering an atmosphere of intolerance are misplaced. It's time it walked the talk by nailing those who are using intimidation to silence all voices that differ with them.
 
 
