PUNE: With a move to keeping decibel devil in check, the state government has authorised noise   comprising   to seize equipment, including DJ system, speakers, and banjo, on the spot for causing noise pollution. 

 Though the committee, comprising police officers, was earlier authorised to stop music systems from playing loud music but there was no clear directive regarding seizure of equipment. The state government has now given powers of seizure to the police through a special order.
 
 The   is hearing a PIL filed by Thane-based Mahesh Bedekar, who raised concern over nuisance created by organisers of religious festivals with regard to   and erection of 'mandaps' and 'pandals' (makeshift structures) on streets and footpaths. “During the hearing conduced on February 28, it was brought to the notice of the state government that the committee’s mandate did not include seizure of DJ  , speakers etc. from the spot. Hence, the state has issued notification in this regard,” stated the government’s notification. It added that the action must be taken accordingly, adhering to law.
 
 Earlier, the court had observed that every citizen has a fundamental right to silence and to live in peace and comfort and the same cannot be disturbed by organisers celebrating various festivals.
 
 Adhering to the orders of the state Director General of Police last year, the city police had formed teams to monitor and keep a check on noise pollution in Pune city limits. The police had identified the roads which are generally used by different mandals, individuals and marriage halls to carry out processions in which loudspeakers or traditional musical instruments are played.
 
 However, citizens have complained that there was no let up in noise pollution and no action was taken against offenders. The environment status report of PMC observed in the past few years that the city had high noise pollution levels. The sound levels in nearly all areas of the city, including commercial and residential zones, are above the permissible limit.
 
 Meanwhile, the Maharashtra legislative assembly on Thursday passed a Road Safety Measures Bill to lower vehicular noise levels, regulating traffic and streamlining the process of acquiring driving licences and registering of vehicles. Noise pollution is currently governed by rules under a central law known as the Environment Protection Act. These new rules which are meant to be enforced by police, include notifying zones under various categories classified as commercial, residential and silence.
 
