LUDHIANA: Civic officials cancelled their demolition drive scheduled for Thursday in  . Officials cited the reason that the state government was bringing a one-time settlement policy to regularize illegal structures, and therefore, they have been told to wait before conducting demolition in any part of the city.

 However, sources revealed that Congress leaders had created pressure on officials, following which the department cancelled the drive. The residents of the area were in fact prepared for the drive and planning to stage a protest and show resentment against the department on Thursday morning. The officials of building branch, meanwhile, remained evasive to queries about cancellation of the demolition drive.
 
 MC commissioner   said he had discussed the matter with higher officials, because local bodies minister   had also mentioned about this policy twice. “As the policy is being framed, the department has been advised to wait for sometime because it is of no use to dismantle anybody’s house when the government was framing some policy to regularize the structures,” he said. 
 
 Congress leaders have been vocal in the past about the move to introduce a new regularisation policy by the government. A few weeks ago, when MC had conducted a demolition drive in Focal Point, Congress MLA Sanjeev Talwar had mentioned that the policy was under consideration. The leaders claimed that the new policy would help generate revenue by regularizing illegal structures, and in case any building cannot be regularized as per the norms, then action would be taken against the violators. The officials are now waiting for this policy, and then they will be able to decide which illegal structures are to be regularised or demolished.
 
 MC officials had sought 300 cops from the district police for Thursday’s demolition drive and the police department had assured to provide enough force. In fact, two days prior to the proposed demolition drive, area councillor   had visited MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh, along with residents of the area. He had pressed for allotment of the land to occupants on government prices, instead of demolishing the structures.
 
