HYDERABAD: With all eyes on the   (NGT), scheduled to deliver its verdict on GO 111 violations on Friday,   on Thursday said that the 1996 order must not only be implemented stringently but also be revised to include the   from where the two prominent rivers  .

 Spread over 750 square kms, this catchment area near Vikarabad, currently falls beyond the 10 km radius of the Osmansagar and Himayatsagar that's covered by GO 111.Construction activity, within this zone, is banned.
 
 “Adding another 15 km (upstream) to the existing 10 km radius will ensure that no encroachments take place right from where the rivers ­ that eventually flow into the two reservoirs begin. That will, in turn, ensure that Osmansagar and Himayathsa gar receive sufficient water.Right now, there are multiple blockages on the way, beyond the protected zone,“ said Thakur Rajkumar Singh, chairman, Human Rights & Consumer Protection Cell.
 
 He is also the petitioner in the ongoing NGT case sadly, even inside the 10 km radius, illegal constructions are aplenty.
 
 While official records peg the number at 12,500 (approx), environmentalists claim it's more than 20,000 in reality.These include hotels, resorts, residentialcommercial properties and industries. “The failing health of the two reservoirs is the result of years of illegal activity. It is time that the government, instead of trying to dilute GO 111, stood up and punished those responsible for destroying these precious resources,“ said S Jeevanand Reddy who has been fighting for the cause for years. Environmentalist Capt J Rama Rao, couldn't agree more. According to him, the only solution lies in instilling among encroachers “the fear of law and punishment“. “We have already travelled up to Krishna and Godavari to meet our drinking water demands. Instead of travelling 200-300 kms, why can't we protect what we have closer home,“ asked B V Subba Rao, senior member of the green brigade.
 
 While protecting Hyderabad's water needs, Jasveen Jairath, founder convener, Save Our Urban Lakes also stressed the need to weed out the real estate mafia that, she rued, is rallying for the dilution of GO 111.
 
 “And instead of protecting the peoples' requirement, the government is willingly playing into their hands to earn big bucks,“ Jasveen alleged.
 
