PUNE: After a gap of almost a month, the   seems to have resurfaced. This time, he has become active in the  . 

 In the past 15 days, the suspect targeted two women cashiers including one from MSEDCL’s bill collection centre in Pimpri, while another from an insurance company’s office at  . So far, this is the ninth such reported incident. 
 
 The suspect has been active in the city since demonetisation on November 8 last year. 
 
 By mid-January he had managed to dupe seven people mainly elderly shop owners and women cashiers of different organisations. His identity is still a mystery as he commits these crimes wearing a black helmet. The helmet serves as a mask from   and has helped the conman keep his identity hidden.
 
 So far, the suspect has stolen 118 notes of Rs 2,000 denomination, six notes of Rs 500 denomination, a few gold ornaments and even four scrapped notes of Rs 1,000.
 
 An officer from the crime branch told TOI that a special drive has been launched to trace the suspect. He was captured a few times by close circuit cameras and in one incident, police also got a general description. “Due to the helmet, we have still not been able to ascertain his identity,” the officer said.
 
 On Friday afternoon, the suspect struck at an insurance company’s office in Pimple-Saudagar. “He was wearing a helmet and yet was able to walk into the first floor office of the company without any trouble,” said SG Patil, sub-inspector of the Sangvi police.
 
 According to Patil, the suspect told the woman cashier that he became a father after 11 years and to celebrate his son’s birth, he had arranged a puja and needed Rs 2,000 notes with the number 11 on it. “He requested the cashier to handover the bundle of the notes to him and he would check the note on his own,” Patil said.
 
 Patil said that initially the cashier did not pay attention to him. When the suspect requested her repeatedly, the woman relented and handed him a bundle of the notes. “The suspect engaged the woman in a conversation while pretending to look for the particular note and then returned the bundle claiming that he did not found the note and left the office immediately,” Patil said.
 
 When the woman checked the bundle, she found nine notes worth Rs 18,000 were missing from the bundle, Patil said.
 
 About 15 days ago, the suspect had struck at MSEDCL’s bill collection centre in Pimpri. He told the woman cashier that he needed a Rs 2,000 with a particular number and offered her change in Rs 500 notes. 
 
 “On the pretext of checking the particular note, the suspect took the bundle of Rs 2,000 notes and made away with 17 notes worth Rs 34,000,” said an officer from the Pimpri police station.
 
 The officer said that the woman had described the suspect, he was supposedly wearing a yellow jerkin and blue jeans.
 
