THANE: The year-long   awareness campaign taken up by the   across city schools seems to be constantly yielding good results, as academicians and staffers have reported and stopped the sale of tobacco in around 200   near their  .

 While school principals, police sub-inspectors, civic surgeons and others in addition to FDA officials were given powers to take action against tobacco vendors who set shop near school premises by levying fines on them and seizing their goods six years ago, many have taken up these duties only after the awareness campaign that was initiated last year.
 
 Suresh Deshmukh, joint commissioner at the FDA, said, “Till last year, not many principals knew they could take such actions. Through this anti-tobacco awareness campaign we encouraged them to take advantage of the act and shut down such outlet selling tobacco products within 100 yards of their school compound. Shopkeepers selling these items to minors should also be penalised.”
 
 “Today, most school authorities are eagerly approaching to stop these activities. Some, like Anand Vishwa Gurukul in Wagle Estate, have even put up banners and posters informing parents and students about the law,” he added.
 
 While section 4 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) prohibits smoking in public places, section 6A restricts vendors from selling any tobacco products to minors. Section 6B restricts vendors from selling cigarettes and tobacco products 100 yards from any academic institution.
 
 The drive, which also includes sessions wherein the students are told about the ill effects of smoking and tobacco seems to have additionally garnered a positive response from the youngsters.
 
 A civic school teacher said, “In the four-day event held for us by the FDA and an ENT specialist last year, we found out that 90 per cent of those who consume tobacco products start during their late school and early college days. While speaking to the children about this topic we realised that many get attracted to tobacco because of its easy accessibility the act that their parents and family members smoke or chew tobacco and even ask them to buy it, peer pressure and so on.”
 
 “The officials not only discussed with them the harmful effect of tobacco on their health, but also moved them and convinced them to try to stop their family from continuing these vices,” she added.
 
 
