PUNE: The crime branch last week arrested a former   commando and his aide from Ahmednagar and recovered 1.8kg of gold ornaments worth Rs 51 lakh the former had siphoned off from a city builder.

 The ex-commando, Navnath Bajirao Mohite (34) from Nevasa Taluka in Amhendagar district, worked with the builder as a subcontractor. The builder had given him 2.7kg of gold ornaments and land-related documents for keeping them safely over the past four years.
 
 When the builder wanted his valuables back about 15 days ago, Mohite and his accomplice, Kisan Chavan (40) of Shevgaon near Ahmednagar, demanded Rs 25 lakh from him to return the documents. Mohite even threatened to shot him with his licensed pistol.
 
 After receiving a complaint from the builder, the anti-extortion cell of the crime branch led by senior inspector Laxman Borate arrested Mohite and Chavan. “We have recovered 1.8kg of gold worth Rs51 lakh and Mohite’s pistol with 11 cartridges. Both the suspects are out on bail,” Borate said.
 
 He said the suspect, Mohite, served as a sepoy in the   between 2001 and 2009. During this tenure, he also worked as an NSG commando for four years. In 2009, he left the Army and started taking construction subcontracts with his brother in Pune. “The complainant and Mohite came in contact through the construction business,” Borate said.
 
 A crime branch officer said Mohite possessed a licensed pistol. While giving Mohite subcontracts, the builder started taking him along for land deals.
 
 Assistant inspector of the crime branch Sunil Gavali said Mohite thought after demonetisation that the builder might have purchased the gold given to him with black money and refused to return it. “When the builder asked him for the property documents, Mohite’s friend, Chavan, started demanding Rs25 lakh for not revealing anything about the builder’s alleged black money to the income tax officials,” Gavali said.
 
 The assistant inspector said the builder approached the police and lodged the complaint after Mohite started threatening him. “We have recovered 17 property-related files from Mohite. Most of these documents are legal and have been registered with the registrar’s office,” Gavali said.
 
