CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu CM O   breached the inner fort of the   brigade on Saturday when school education minister K Pandiarajan, four   members — PR Sundaram, K Ashok Kumar, SP Sathyabhama and R Vanaroja — and MGR loyalists C Ponnaiyan and C Aranganayagam crossed over to his side.

 With Rajya Sabha member V Maithreyan with him,   now enjoys the open support of five MPs and seven MLAs. Pandiarajan had gone with   to meet governor   on Thursday to stake claim to form the government.
 
 The four Lok Sabha members said they took the decision after listening to their voters’ sentiments. Pandiarajan tweeted before calling on OPS: “Will listen to the collective voice of my voters & decide in a way to uphold the dignity of Amma’s memory & unity of AIADMK!” 
 
 
 
 After the meeting, he said: “More MLAs will join Annan (OPS) in the coming days. DMK is trying to split our party and I want to avoid that. The party led by OPS will not take the support of DMK in any manner.”
 
 Pandiarajan’s support is a U-turn from his position on Thursday when he had accused Pannerselvam of being “an opportunist who fell at Sasikala’s feet after she was elected the legislature party leader”.
 
 Ashok Kumar, Sundaram and Ponnaiyan blamed Sasikala for not allowing any party member to see   when she was in hospital for more than 70 days.
 
 Sundaram even accused Sasikala of conspiracy right from the night of Jaya’s death. “On December 5, Amma’s death was announced at midnight. All party leaders were sobbing, but Sasikala and her 15 family members went into a huddle. They were talking about who should take over as CM. I didn’t see tears in her eyes,” said Sundaram.
 
 Ashok Kumar demanded a CBI probe into Jayalalithaa’s death. “Leave all MLAs free and we will know who has their support,” he said. OPS was all smiles as leaders and cadres flocked to his Greenways Road residence.
 
 Now in the OPS camp, former MLA Parithi Ilamvazhuthi, who had crossed over from the DMK to the AIADMK before the 2016 assembly election, asked cadres to shun the habit of falling at anybody’s feet. And OPS nodded in agreement.
 
