KOLKATA: It’s 6pm but Anil Mishra’s day is far from over. After participating in several street-corner political meetings, he is now headed to meet young party colleagues to receive feedback about the social media campaign. Once he is through with them, he will attend meeting with members of the campaign committee to discuss the next day’s strategy. After a few hours of sleep at night, he will set out early in the morning to accompany a prominent minister from Delhi to an election rally.

 No, there is no election in Bengal right now but preprations are a foot for a string of elections in the state from next year. And the training ground is  , which goes to polls on Saturday.
 
 Several   workers from Bengal have headed to UP to augment the party’s campaign and also pick up new strategies that may prove crucial in back-to-back elections in Bengal from 2018. A senior BJP leader said that almost 250 middle and grassroots level workers from Bengal have already reached UP.
 
 Mishra, who is the general secretary of the   in Kolkata, has been entrusted with the responsibility of strengthening the organisation and encouraging the youth across several assembly segments. “I have been travelling the length and breadth of UP for the past six months. I have addressed several meetings of   and yuva morcha in several assembly segments,” said Mishra, currently campaigning in Bhadroi near Aligarh. 
 
 Starting next year, Bengal will have elections every year till 2021 — panchayat polls next year,   in 2019, civic elections in 2020 followed by the crucial assembly polls in 2021.
 
 Sanjay Mandal, the vice-president of the Burrabazar district, will be headed to Allahabad where BJP leader Siddharth Nath Singh is contesting from. Singh is the BJP’s observer from Bengal. 
 
 “My skills lie in strengthening the organisation at the grassroots level. I was responsible for the election in the Shyampukur assembly segment last year. I will share my expertise with the workers there,” said Mandal. 
 
 “We want the party to emerge as the main opposition party in Bengal by unseating the CPM and the Congress. For that, we have to build our organisation at the grassroots level and do well in rural and general elections. The lessons learnt in the UP elections will come handy,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 There are many BJP workers who have gone to UP on their own to “contribute their bit” in one of the “most crucial elections”. One among them is Shantilal Jain, a veteran BJP leader who was with the TMC in the 2000s, visited UP campaigned in three assembly constituencies. 
 
 “I visited Agra, Balia, Tundla and Ferozepur and held group meetings to create more awareness about the party,” said Jain. 
 
