NAGPUR: In a jolt to Maharashtra Rashtrabhasha Sabha,   on Friday dismissed its special leave petition (SLP) and directed it to pay Rs40 crore to the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) within a month in the case of misutilization of public utility land for  

 While refusing to interfere with orders of Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directing the NIT to recover additional premium and ground rent for extra FSI granted for prime government land on  , the apex court granted liberty to Sabha to file an appeal with Maharashtra government against levy of Rs163 crore premium by NIT.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice JS Kehar, Justice Dhananjaya Chandrachud, and Justice Sanjay Kaul exempted Wockhardt Hospitals from making payment of premium, as it had no direct allotment in its name. But the judges clarified that if Sabha failed to make the payment then it would be recovered from other parties. During last hearing, the apex court had directed NIT to complete the assessment of premium which was calculated at Rs163 crore.
 
 Earlier, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for the petitioner, claimed it was unfair to reassess the ground rent and additional premium from 1991 and Sabha was doing a lot of work for promotion of Hindi and conducting cultural activities. However, the top court refused to quash the Nagpur bench’s order while passing strictures against officials who dealt with the file permitting user change and commercial use of public utility land.
 
 The judges directed the Sabha to pay Rs40 crore immediately and then file an appeal to stay recovery of interest on balance of Rs123 crore. They further asked the competent authority to decide the appeal on merits.
 
 Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Atul Chandurkar of Nagpur Bench on September 7 had directed NIT to undertake fresh decision on quantum of lease premium and ground rent charged by Sabha at first renewal from March 31, 1991-2021. The order came on a plea by ‘Citizens Forum for Equality’ president Madhukar Kukde, through counsel Tushar Mandlekar. 
 
 The trust was told to calculate lease premium after change of user from Sabha to Wockhardt from February 21, 2004, to March 31, 2021, for additional FSI, as per the Land Disposal Rules, 1983. NIT was asked to complete the exercise within three months after giving an opportunity of hearing to the Sabha. The trust was asked to recover arrears in 12 equal bimonthly instalments, either from the Sabha or from Wockhardt, either jointly or severally. The HC asked NIT and Sabha to pay Rs10,000 cost each to petitioner.
 
 Kukde had alleged a loss of Rs100 crore to the exchequer due to illegal leasing of the government land to Sabha for promotion of Hindi language by NIT bypassing the mandatory provisions of Land Disposal Rules, 1986. The land was illegally leased out at a meagre premium of Rs30 lakh for 30 years by NIT in 2007 without conducting any auction. Thereafter, the land was illegally leased out and the interest transferred to several parties through various agreements to which NIT was not a party. The Sabha illegally inked development pact with Prajakta Developers which in return, sold the land to the SMG Hospitals for Rs65 crore. SMG Hospitals further leased 22,000 square feet to Wockhardt for Rs33 lakh per year.
 
 While seeking CBI enquiry into entire affair, Kukde pointed out all actions were violative of lease deed signed by NIT, as the civic body acted against the exchequer by calculating the premium of Rs30 lakh at the market price of 1961.
 
 During last hearing, Singhvi pressed hard for stay on HC’s verdict contending they were doing charity as well. But the judges observed they know which kind of charity they were doing and “conduct and integrity of government officials was doubtful”. “The land reserved for public utility was grabbed and commercially exploited by politicians in connivance with government officials,” the SC judges noted.
 
