BENGALURU: Backed by JD(S) state president HD Kumaraswamy, who has promised to provide financial assistance to the protesting  , more than 5,000 drivers associated with aggregators Ola and Uber staged a massive   on Wednesday.

 The drivers gathered at   and said their agitation would be an indefinite one. However by 8pm, only about 25 people decided to stay there through the night, owing to restricted permission granted by the police. The rest will return in the morning, they said.
 
 Tanveer Pasha, president of the Uber, TaxiForSure and Ola Drivers’ Association, said drivers were willing to go to court. As the number of protesters swelled, several cabbies received SMSes from aggregators asking them to join work, but unions continued to insist they participate in the agitation.
 
 B S Kantharaju, a drivers with Ola, said: “I admitted my elder son in MS Ramaiah Composite PU college based on the company’s assurance that I would be able to earn Rs 1 lakh a month. Now, I am struggling with personal loans from private money lenders.” He said he is unable to pay the EMI of Rs 15,000 a month for his taxi for the past few months as his earnings have dropped.
 
 A majority of the drivers who protested had similar complaints — the aggregators had assured them an income of Rs 1 lakh, including high incentives, which they are not getting now. “The unrealistic trip targets to get incentives and other issues is making it difficult to make ends meet,” said Girish AV, a driver with Uber.
 
 They drivers are demanding that the companies offer the maximum fare capped by the state government, Rs19.5 per km, and do away with dynamic pricing models which “fool commuters”.
 
 Drivers at the protest said that the companies had set unrealistic targets of 18 to 26 trips a day for them to be eligible for incentives. “How do they (aggregators) think we can complete 18 or more trips a day in a city like Bengaluru? Even if we drive 24 hours, we can only do 12-15 trips. And if we make one trip to the airport, we lose four short trips. The targets for incentives are too high,” said another driver Narasimhamurthy.
 
 The police, who had been rejecting cabbies’ applications seeking permission to protest for the past two days, have given the nod to agitate at Freedom Park for two days, ending Thursday. However, drivers exuded confidence that Kumaraswamy, who has promised to join them on Thursday, will help them get permission to continue their protest.
 
 Both Uber and Ola have not commented and e-mails sent to both companies did not elicit any response. But, in a blog post and an email to commuters, Uber’s head for Bengaluru operations Christian Freese said “a small group of people began preventing driver-partners from going about their business” from last week. Neither company is acknowledging that there is a strike. Uber has maintained that a high court order prevents taxi union leaders from stopping willing drivers from using the platform.
 
