CHENNAI: All electrical and electronic systems installed in the city’s first underground metro line are likely to get certified in February. Getting clearances for the systems is the first step towards a series of official inspections required to get the 9km stretch from Thirumangalam to Nehru Park commissioned.

 “All system contractors have to certify and we expecting it to happen by next month,” a metro rail official said. “Installation of signalling and electronic systems is complete. Now, individual system testing is going on,” he added.
 
 Systems such as power supply and overhead equipment, communication systems and the signalling systems need to get clearances from the contractors. Once certified, officials said, it will be followed by an independent safety assessment, inspections by RDSO and finally by the commissioner of railway safety.
 
 Officials have also submitted the necessary papers to the commissioner of rail safety for inspection, which is expected to happen in March. These series of inspections are mandatory to get the line operational.
 
 Metro rail engineers have already been conducting trial runs, with four-car trains, for the last one month after the installation of signalling systems. However, officials said such runs are conducted only when systems are being tested. These systems will make the entire operation on the railway track automatic.
 
 Trial runs help engineers test several aspects including the train’s response to the signals, its link to the control room and the platform screen. Trial runs between Thirumangalam and Nehru Park began in October 2016, but trains were run in manual mode at a speed of 25km/hr, against the maximum speed of 80km/hr, as signals were not installed in stations and the tunnels from Shenoy Nagar to Nehru Park.
 
 Officials said full-fledged trial runs would be conducted once the systems are certified.   has planned to open the   comprising seven stations by April 2017.
 
 The underground line cutting across the Poonamallee High Road will give commuters from neighbouring localities access to a mass transit service. Residents from localities like Kilpauk, New Avadi Road, Aminjikarai, Shenoy Nagar and Anna Nagar, till the airport with a single ticket.
 
 
