NEW DELHI: In a major breakthrough in a case related to rigging of 
  , the   has identified 121 impersonators after scanning details of over 9.5 lakh medical students across the country.

 Hundreds of applicants had appeared for the Pre-Medical Test ( ) 2009 and 2010, and pre-PG (medical) entrance test conducted by 
  (MPPEB), abbreviated as   in Hindi, and it was found that a majority of applicants had morphed their photographs in the online application forms and impersonators had appeared for them as proxies.
 
 After registering an FIR in July 2015 following a direction from the  , the CBI found 300 such impersonators who appeared on behalf of the applicants. There were allegations of massive corruption in the medical exams.
 
 According to sources, CBI teams approached hundreds of medical colleges and medical coaching institutes in six states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Bihar - and created a database of 9.5 lakh medical students over six months using their homogeneously digitised pictures.
 
 “For us, it was a challenge to match these photos with the ones on PMT and pre-PG forms, and advanced forensic software was used by experts, along with anthropometric principles, to overcome the morphing disguise of the existing pictures. 
 
 However, our teams worked hard and identified 121 people who appeared for others, out of 9.5 lakh students,” said a source. 
 
 The source added that the remaining forensic examination - which includes matching the specimen handwriting and thumbprint with the question-answer and online OMR/marksheets - was being done by Central Forensic Science Laboratory.
 
 CBI sources said that while addresses of the 121 suspects were traced and they were asked to join the probe over the last few months, 73 had already appeared before the agency for questioning and 20 were served notices.
 
 The agency is trying to find the whereabouts of 28 other impersonators as they could not be found on the addresses given on their documents.
 
 “The selection of hundreds of bogus doctors in MP has threatened the very legitimacy of the selection process and the associated institutions,” a senior CBI officer said.
 
 Apart from the medical entrance test scandal, the CBI has been able to trace 402 other suspects in various other cases related to Vyapam scam whose roles had not come to light in the Madhya Pradesh police probe.
 
 The CBI has registered 170 cases in Vyapam scam, out of which 
  and final reports have been filed in 74.
 
 A 40-member SIT of CBI has been probing the Vyapam scam since 2015.
 
 
