HYDERABAD: The Union urban development ministry may have just proposed the idea of linking registration of new cars to proving availability of   space but the   is already on the job of working out the details.

 Principal secretary of transport, roads and buildings department Sunil Sharma said linking parking space and registration of four wheelers would help solve the parking space problem in the city. “The state government is working on guidelines in tune with the Centre’s suggestion on parking spaces and it will be completed soon,” he said.
 
 Experts, however, said it’s going to take more than rules to solve parking problems. Urban planners, transport experts and enforcement agencies such as   (GHMC) said people’s participation will be required to ensure compliance.
 
 Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu recently said the Centre was working on making parking space mandatory for vehicle registration, especially for four-wheelers and that he was discussing the subject with transport minister  .
 
 “Some builders have been converting independent houses into apartment blocks illegally. The state government should give sops to builders and owners so that additional built-up space is given if the owner raises a stilt floor for parking,” former chief city planner of GHMC B Purushottam Reddy said.
 
 Apart from imposing rules on parking space for registering four wheelers, the government should consider regulating the number of four wheelers being manufactured, he said. China limits production of cars, he said.
 
 Architects said it would be hard to check whether a person has a parking slot for his or her car. “For example, a builder could raise 40 units and give parking space for just 20 units,” Seethiraju Ramakrishna, a city-based architect said. He said the civic body must insist on parking for each car, irrespective of mandatory parking space provided.
 
 The government’s building rules have norms for parking space for apartments and multi-storied buildings but there were no rules for independent buildings. “Several suggestions were made on parking space problems and solutions in the comprehensive transportation study for Hyderabad metropolitan region,” said director of town and country planning K Anand Babu.
 
 
