 is special because it’s the first day of the New Year. I try and celebrate it with my family. We don’t do any typical puja or follow a fixed ritual. We get up early in the morning, and raise the gudi, which comprises kadu neem leaves, garlands of flowers, naya vastra, shakkar ki mala and the kalash. I always draw a rangoli outside the front door and depending upon my schedule, I cook an elaborate meal for my family. We even argue over what dessert should be prepared — shrikhand, amrakhand or basundi! All in all, it’s a beautiful day that signifies we must start afresh. 

 
 This is one of the most anticipated festivals for Maharashtrians and so, I eagerly wait for this day. Every year, we cook puran polis at home. This time, it’s even more special for me because I am getting a new car today. Like always, my parents will hoist the gudi in the temple in our house. We keep our celebrations very simple. I am looking forward to celebrate and indulge in some great food today.
 
 I’m a typical Maharashtrian, so I celebrate the festival with aplomb. I wake up early in the morning and mount the gudi. My mother usually makes kheer puri or shrikhand puri. I dress up in a traditional Paithani sari and then do puja of the gudi. Once we are done with it, I call up everyone in the family to wish them personally. I just love the way a gudi is prepared. It’s amazing to see it rising from my window. 
 
 
 On this occasion I bathe all the God idols and decorate them with gandha and attar as I love the aroma of incense sticks. Men in the house usually tend to carry out the gudi ritual. But since my father worked in the Merchant Navy, I’ve hardly witnessed the ritual of raising the gudi while growing up. However, I love the entire atmosphere of sweets, aromas and good vibes of the New Year.
 
 
 Like it happens in most Marathi households, we mount the gudi, do the puja and buy gold as it’s an auspicious beginning. Hope the younger generation continues the tradition and takes it forward. I usually go to my mother’s house to celebrate the day or she comes over. We lunch together and shrikhand puri is always on the menu. This year is special for us, as my son Bobby just won a coveted contest and my husband Deepak and I were felicitated for our contribution to cinema. 
 
 
 Right from waking up early in the morning, raising the gudi, cleaning the Gods at home, decorating the home with flowers, drawing rangoli, and doing the puja… we will follow all the rituals. Since I love mogra flowers, I make it a point to decorate the temple at home with them. After the puja, there is the traditional puran poli lunch with family amidst lots of banter. For us, festivals are all about about spending time with family and indulging in delicious food.
 
 
 It’s all about families coming together. My grandma is particular about the lunch menu, and the tradition of mounting the gudi. Our routine for the day hasn’t changed from the time we were kids. The entire family makes it a point to be together. I also love indulging in traditional sweets like puran poli.
 
 
 We make it a point to celebrate all Maharashtrian festivals at home. My five-year-old daughter Nakshatra is at an age where she understands Gudi Padwa celebrations and so, this year she will be doing the puja. Buying a new sari for the gudi, making a batasha garland... she’s excited for it all. Apart from eating shrikhand puri, we will also gorge on my mom’s masala bhaat!
 
 
 Once of my favourite memories of celebrating the New Year is of indulging in my late mother’s delicious shrikhand puri. As kids, my two brothers and I would raise the gudi and always struggle to get the angle right! This year, I am going to visit my elder brother’s house, where the entire family will celebrate the day.
 
 
 We usually raise the gudi in the morning and do a small puja where we make a few resolutions, since it’s the beginning of the New Year as per the Hindu calendar. The whole family comes together for lunch and enjoys the festivities. This year, I am excited about gorging on my favourite sweet — gulab jamun! 
 
