NEW DELHI: Three days ago, on New Year's Eve, a TOI reader and three friends of his went to Church Street as they saw some great deals advertised in some restaurants there.

 They got there at around 11 pm.
 
 "The place was unrecognizable. It was like a mini war zone. There were crowds of boys between the ages of 17 and 25 
  even though there was a large police presence," writes the reader.
 
 Other readers too had horror stories, about gangs of young men egging each other on, about men from these gangs blocking roads and cars with their bikes and about men "behaving like animals" with their screaming and shouting.
 
 "I could not help but think at that moment that individual punishment will hardly help. We are stuck with more of a systemic problem. This will take drastic steps and decades to solve," said one reader.
 
 "I'm deeply sorry for the victims and only wish me and my friends could stop more than what we did. As the density of the crowd grew it got really unsafe and cops urged us to leave.
 
 "My wife and I went to a five-star hotel on MG Road and when we came out around 1 pm, I saw so many guys wandering around...I've never seen so many men wandering around arbitrarily and drunk."
 
 "There were three to four people on bikes, driving badly and without helmets and abusing women with vulgar comments. Even auto drivers got encouragement and started doing the same things. The whole return journey was really horrible for me and my wife."
 
 "Me and my wife both believe no one has a right to question a woman's dress. They have freedom to wear anything and also visit any place at any time. All these things are a black mark on men and their mentality.
 
 Some readers said 
  .
 
 "On December 31, it wasn't just MG Road where horrible things happened. In many parts of the city where there was New Year's event happening, the same thing happened. At   in   alone, we helped so many women safely into an auto between 12 midnight and 2 am. "
 
 "I was walking with my friends and there was a line of 5-6 guys walking who started this chain of pushing women who happened to be walking in front of them. The last man in the line would push the man in front of him and they would keep going up the line until the man first in line would push the women up ahead. Then another group of men off to the side would come towards the woman from the other side. One girl broke down and pleaded for them to stop. I couldn't sleep the whole night after witnessing the incident. I was feeling like a coward and helpless. Just hoping nothing like this will happen to any girl ever."
 
 Some readers suggested ways to channelise people's energies.
 
 "Improving education can be a start, channeling the energy of the youth energy into mandatory national drafts like military, forest conservation, homeland development, etc., can help utilize all this excess energy in a good direction."
 
 
