At 25, the prime of his youth, when   got married to Beena, whom he had courted for many years, life seemed beautiful, perfect. He was working as a service engineer in a Bengaluru-based multinational.

 The villain in the fairy tale made his appearance in the form of a fever in 1985, and soon showed the real face as a crippling disorder. “It was a rare disease in those days, without any cure. I was told that I would be crippled within five years,” says Peter. “The diagnosis was quick but useless as doctors said there was no way of arresting it.”
 
 It did not take long for Peter, who used to travel extensively as part of his job, to become bedridden. The world literally turned upside down for the young man, who had no option but to quit his job. His firm, which used to manufacture specialised medical equipment, tried to help him out -- one of their best performing employees -- by sending his reports to leading institutes abroad but to no avail.
 
 “I went underground,” says Peter, who was brought to his native village called Muthalakodam near Thodupuzha, where his parents lived. In the four traumatic years that followed, he went through excruciating physical as well as mental pain.
 
 Theirs was a middle class family and Peter was the eldest, while the brothers were still studying. He lost weight and turned into a bag of bones. There was no hope of survival, leave alone recovery. The only physical activity was the assisted journey to the toilet and back. When the fever returned, he had to be admitted to the intensive care unit often. An additional dimension was added to the problem when doctors stopped all painkillers as he developed kidney problems because of their overuse. He couldn’t sleep on many nights and it seemed very much like a dead end, but standing beside him like a rock was his wife, who was a woman of faith.
 
 Then it happened; there was an unexplainable reduction in pain. Doctors wouldn’t believe it and said either he was imagining it or the disease was in remission. “In hindsight, I think it must have been a divine intervention but at that time, I was not that religious like my wife and believed in human effort more than divine help,” he remembers.
 
 Not letting go of this tiny olive branch extended to him by fate, he started getting up and walking, at least trying to. “I wanted to give my wife a life and myself too. Losing the job was a big blow to me as I used to enjoy doing it. I thought about all the options I had to rebuild my life and career.”
 Mobilising every penny he had, he started a small business in his village. He would travel by auto rickshaw and sit for a while in the office and lie down in a bed in an inner chamber when tired. It brought a modest but satisfying income.
 
 He never looked back and scored enviable successes in business since then but more than all that, he considers it his most successful day when he could take a full round of his house with the help of a stick.
 
 “This was achieved through constant effort. Every day, I would go on increasing the number of steps. Often, the effort would make me lie down the whole of next day but it paid off,” he says.
 
 After a year of turning entrepreneur, he plunged into the field of cable services with a few friends. It was early 90s and the first private cable channel was making waves in Kerala. Business boomed and soon he started manufacturing cable amplifiers in his house.
 
 “Instead of going into active physiotherapy, I plunged into business which had a healing effect on me,” he says. He became a consultant for other cable networks and also the first to manufacture spherical antennas in Kerala. Soon, dish antennas replaced them and Peter decided to make and market them too.
 
 He remembers how he went to meet a bank manager. “As I could not climb up to the fourth floor, the manager came down to the car. He agreed that the business plan was sound but said he was not sure how I would run the business in this condition.”
 
 The loan was denied but Peter went ahead, with his own money. He started opening offices in different cities of Kerala and became the clear market leader.
 A multinational broadcaster, which entered the market then, was looking for a distributor and Peter was the natural choice. For 14 years, he was their key man and in 2009, they honoured him with a best achiever award.
 Kerala had many channels by this time and a company drafted him as its CEO and MD for a Christian spiritual channel. He shifted to a village in Kozhikode to set it up from scratch and used to shuttle between Kochi and Kozhikode.
 
  This phase saw him experimenting on the creative side too and he started writing devotional songs, many of which went on to become hits. He deviated from the norm of just praising God and brought in everyday situations as his theme. “I consider the four years when I was bedridden as the greatest learning period of my life,” he says. He also ventured into making short films and continues to do so in his new role as the head of another devotional channel in Kochi.
 “No doubt, God saved me but there was human effort too. Even today I swim for half an hour and I am very careful with my diet,” says the 57-year-old, who walks with some difficulty and sits down with even greater effort.
 “What matters the most is your attitude. I used to joke and retain my positive nature even when I was confined to bed. When anybody is tested to the extremes, there are two options, either to surrender or fight back,” he says.
 
 We know which he chose and with what wonderful results. “I don’t believe in taking life as it comes. You have to go and grab what you want from life,” he says. 
 
 
