NAGPUR: After two days of intensive campaign in city, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told ToI that the BJP was confident of  . “This time it will be an unprecedented win,” he asserted. 

 In a special interview, stealing time during travel on a campaign tour of Akola and Amravati on Friday, he said the vision of development put forth by his senior leader   and the fact that as chief minister he was pushing for development of Nagpur at never-before pace, held a huge public appeal. “People are seeing the results and do not have to look elsewhere for a bright future of our city,” said Fadnavis. 
 
 The chief minister who also addressed well-attended public meetings, one each at Akola and Amravati, said the BJP has emerged on top in all recent elections in the state, including that of municipal councils and legislative council and will do exceptionally well in the civic body polls in ten cities. His frenetic campaign schedule hardly allows him gets three to four hours of sleep a day. But he is not complaining. Excerpts of interview:
 
 
 
 All I can say is that the victory margin will be unprecedented this time. As a team, Gadkari and I have done path-breaking work for the city and in a very short span. We have been able to get huge developmental funds from Centre as well as the state. The city never had such good times. Of course, all this was overdue because Nagpur and whole of Vidarbha were given stepmotherly treatment by previous regimes. People are happy with our work and this is bound to translate into good support and electoral win for the BJP. Nagpur will be a model city by 2019.
 
 
 
 
 It is my home turf and people’s affection pulls me here. Even after the public meetings, people insist I visit homes of prominent people and I do that. My amiable nature compels me to reciprocate. 
 
 As far as manifesto is concerned. I did not have time to look at the drafts. I have asked party men to finalize it. Other parties can promise moon since they have no chance to come to power. But we will be realistic and promise only what we are sure of delivering. Like we can look into rationalizing taxes and tariffs.
 
 
 
 We are going for inclusive growth. All sections, including minorities, are now supporting us as every community and section of society aspires for development that we are making possible. City is now an education hub, ecosystem is in place for providing jobs to youth in Mihan, airport and cargo hub will now be a reality. Slum-dwellers are getting land titles, we have launched affordable housing project for 10,000 families. Green buses, Smart City, free Wi-Fi and mobile connected services, Nag Nadi cleaning. On all parameters, we are working for sustainable development.
 
 
 
 
 They are blowing few incidents out of proportion. Official statistics show city in good light. The NGO ADR has come up with analysis on candidates of each party. It shows Sena has fielded many more candidates than others having serious crime records. Rattled by the BJP performance, the parties have nowhere to hide. So BJP winning third time in a row in NMC polls is certain.
 
