NEW DELHI: Put physical labour and not just do a ‘photo op’ during the fortnight long   campaign, Prime Minister   has reportedly told the   while urging the lawmakers and everyone to contribute to the flagship programme.

 Sources said PM Modi, while addressing the full Council of Ministers on Tuesday evening, asked them to do their bit whole-heartedly and participate in shramdaan. “He spoke for few minutes stressing on the need for achieving complete sanitation. The message was clear that everyone in the government should do something substantial,” said one of the persons, who was present at the meeting.
 
 PM's message of physical work gains importance considering the fact that political leaders across all levels have been more into getting their photos clicked while doing cosmetic shramdaan and posting them on social networking sites to showcase their effort.
 
 TOI has learnt that President  , who will launch the   campaign from   in rural Kanpur, will lay foundation stone for some waste management project this afternoon. He will also honour citizen champions in this village. Ishwari Ganj is one of the open defecation free districts in UP.
 
 Announcing the fortnight long event, drinking water and sanitation secretary   said shramdaan and several other events will be organised across the country to create awareness and involve people at large scale.
 
 Iyer said the ministry will soon start another round of assessing the toilet coverage and usage of toilets across rural areas in the country. “We plan to undertake this exercise at least once a year so that we get regular feedback of the ground reality,” the secretary said.
 
 Ministry said in an official statement that vice-President M   is scheduled to visit a village in Karnataka on Sunday, which is being celebrated as “Seva Diwas” and offer shramdaan for toilet construction and general cleanliness. Incidentally, Sunday is PM’s birthday.
 
 Responding to whether the fortnight long programme has been kept in mind because of PM’s birthday, Iyer said, “The period chosen has three Sundays and as we know more and more people can offer their voluntary service on a Sunday. "
 
