SHILLONG:   wanted to slip away to his home in Mumbai. In all the din and chaos that accompanies the post-victory rituals in football, he had one mind on checking flights' availability online, and in all the happy noise he could get away unnoticed.

 Can't really blame him ­ he said he's been home only once since he took charge of   early this year, and it has been downright exhausting. He had given a team that never stopped believing, a much-needed direction; pulled it up one match, one win at a time, taught them patience and even gave them his version of the 'Chakh De! India' dressing room speech when he had to rally them one final time, at the half-time, a goal down against Shillong on Sunday.
 
 "This is your last 45 minutes," he told them, "You won't get this ever again." But this is where he took his own course. "Go out there and give it all you can. This is your last chance." It all worked. All that done, he really needed a break. But somewhere, he underestimated his overarching influence on, and the importance, to the team and the Mizo people's own meaning of this I-League victory. Last heard, he was accompanying the victorious contingent back to Aizawl via the early flight from Guwahati.
 
 Still, he was in a mood to chat. He spoke of the strange bubble he and the team lived in when needing a point to win. They were a goal down but half hour past, were informed on the PA system that Chennai City had taken the lead against Mohun Bagan in Kolkata ­ in effect restoring pre-match parity with Aizawl back on top of the table. "You know, far from having a stabilising effect, it creates a lack of focus. They shouldn't be announcing it. It takes us off our aim. For a moment, I thought we were back in the lead, even my players must have thought it, but it was not the way to go about it. These things can get tricky," he explained.
 
 A draw at Shillong would have sufficed for Aizawl. "The mindset very quickly goes into a negative mode when you have this option before you ­ that a draw is good enough. It is very, very tricky for a manager, to keep emphasising that the best way to draw is to try to win. How do you keep telling them one thing when all week they are aware of another reality? But these boys are willing to listen and follow and that is the good thing that worked throughout in our favour this season."
 
 While he's been saying that they managed the victory by ignoring the bigger target and taking it one game at a time, Jamil owes the back-to -back away games with DSK Shivajians and   in early March as the point in the season where got the feeling that they could go all the way. "You could sense the same in the camp too, these things are very infectious. It is a positive spread and I could see each one of us feeling it."
 
 Jamil wasn't terribly bothered with the appointment of West Bengal referees ahead of the game. "I just told the boys to be extra careful, that's all. It didn't stay with us for long." On the threat of an Aizawl pull-out, Jamil said, "Kaise hota?! We didn't come all this way only to walk out in the very end."
 
 While he is aware the national club title brings more challenges, primarily his players being poached away and he himself tempted with bigger offers, for Jamil the immediate aim is the Federation Cup in Cuttack in about 10 days' time. "We have to start preparing for that right away. That's why I wanted a little break at home before we get back to work again," he laughed.
 
