PUNE: Amateur   clubs in the city have been able to define the size and shape of an asteroid called 22 Kalliope and their observations have been recognised by the International Occultation Timing Association (IOTA). 

 On December 24, the asteroid travelled in front of a star identified as TYC 2430-01124-1 and the shadow of this asteroid was cast on earth. The shadow belt of the asteroid spread between Bhuj in Saurashtra to Nellore in  . To measure a planetary object, astronomers need to study its occultation.
 
 According to the IOTA, an occultation occurs when a solar-system body passes in front of a more distant object, partially or totally hiding the more distant object, momentarily blocking its light.
 
 Director of   said, “There is a simple way to make these observations. Sometimes these   come directly between a distant star and the earth, just like a solar eclipse. The event can be seen over a narrow shadow path on the surface of the earth, this is occultation. When the asteroid comes between the earth and the star the star just blinks off for a few seconds. By carefully noting the duration over which the star disappeared and reappeared from different locations on the shadow belt, it is possible to determine the size and shape of the asteroid.”
 
 Amateur astronomy   in Pune set up observation stations at various locations on the Bhuj-Nellore belt and, by measuring the time of occultation accurately, they were able to infer the size about 166km in diameter and the asteroid’s shape.
 
 Suhas Gurjar, of Jyotirvidya Parisanstha (JVP) and one of the participants of the December 24, 2016 observation said, “There are a lot of lone observers, who note such events. Their work is very important as lone observation gives us an idea of minimum possible dimension of the asteroid. But simultaneous observation from a number of locations, gives one a better idea of the shape and size of an asteroid.” 
 
 The JVP erected eight video stations between Pune and Aurangabad, three stations for telescope viewing and from one station through DSLR camera viewing to observe this event from different locations.
 
 There were various teams, including Citizen’s Science Centre, JVP and Akashmitra and from Pune and   from Mumbai.
 
 Paul Maley, leading asteroid occultation observer from   and ex-vice president of IOTA was also in Pune for the event. “Paul provided technical support. He brought eight video recording equipment sets and pointed accurately at a field where the star being occulted was to arrive at the time of the occultation. Based on all the observations, Paul and his team analysed and deduced the shape of the asteroid 22 Kalliope,” said Deepak Joshi of JVP.
 
 Joshi further explained why such observations are important, “Though asteroids mainly far away in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, they can sometimes wander and change their path under influence of Jupiter’s gravity. Many asteroids come very close to Earth when their orbits are changed due to the pull of Jupiter’s gravity. These near earth orbit can be a hazard to life here. Thus, understanding their size and orbit is very important.”
 
 
