MUMBAI: There seems to be more trouble brewing for South Mumbai's plush  .

 With a plan to relocate protesters from their current location at Azad Maidan owing to the construction work underway for Metro 3, authorities have decided to place protesting groups and individuals right opposite the prestigious club, but on the other side of the pathway which is used by pedestrians to travel from   (CST) to Churchgate.
 
 The Metro 3 project involves a fully underground line running between ColabaBandra-Seepz (Andheri) of 33.5 km length; it will have 27 stations.
 
 However, as a result of this shift, many pitches inside Azad Maidan are in danger of being lost, temporarily at least. The  , the refore, is in the process of writing to the Mumbai collector to ask the official that the ground opposite the gymkhana, which is currently being exclusively used by the club for various sporting activities, be opened up for public use.
 
 A senior civic official said that in a meeting that state government officials held in January with the police authorities, stakeholders,   (MMRCL) officials and the BMC, it was discussed that the various protests which currently terminate at the spot in Azad Maidan opposite BMC headquarters need to be shifted a few metres away .
 
 In 1997, the high court had directed that all morchas should terminate at Azad Maidan.
 
 According to the minutes of this meeting accessed by TOI, the police authorities have suggested shifting the protesters to the eastern portion of the ground alongside the Hazarimal Somani Road opposite Bombay Gymkhana. “A few sporting pitches are also set to be lost in the bargain. We are therefore planning to write to the collector requesting that the ground opposite the club be opened up for public use as well,“ said a senior civic official.
 
 The civic body and Bombay Gymkhana have been engaged in a bitter battle ever since the club last year rejected a controversial proposal to offer life-long membership to senior   (IAS) offi cers. Following this, the BMC tabled a proposal to widen the Hazarimal Somani Road outside the gymkhana.This was expected to eat into the club's tennis court and the heritage bungalow. However, no movement was seen on this proposal after the civic standing committee passed it in August 2016.
 
 There was another proposal of placing hawkers on the M G Road footpath alongside the club, but that seems to have been put into cold storage at the moment.
 
