Most women suffer from post partum depression after the delivery of their child. The magnitude of postpartum depression (PPD), which manifests itself a few weeks after childbirth, can impact not only the new mother but also the whole family. This happens due to physiological and hormonal changes in the mother post delivery. But sometimes the signs can be quite severe - excessive mood swings, crying, overeating or loss of appetite, insomnia and sometimes even leading to difficulty in bonding with the kid. Sadly, most cases of   go unreported in India. While there are multiple ways to treat the issue,   can help women fight depression greatly.
 
 When a mother delivers a baby, she is expected to experience a surge of maternal instincts. Sadly, it doesn’t happen that way with all mothers, primarily due to PPD. This may sometimes even lead to resistance to breastfeed or even hold the baby while nursing, thus, depriving the mother and baby of the closeness that happens during feeding. Dr. Ruchika Nagarath, MBBS, LCCE, Lactation Consultant, Lamaze-India, Member of Medela India Lactation Consultant’s Club explains, “While breastfeeding, both mother and child produce oxytocin, the happy hormone. It also releases a rush of endorphins in the body, which has a relaxing effect on the baby. The baby’s body is much calmer and so is the mother’s. Endorphins give the mother a natural high.” Breastfeeding allows women to become more responsive to their baby’s needs.
  
 Talking about the benefits of breastfeeding, Dr Nagarath adds, “Prolactin is a hormone that is high in pregnant women. It helps in the formation of breast milk. During pregnancy, the hormone goes up by 20 times. What most women don’t know is that the same hormone is a stress reliever as well as pain reliever.”
  
 There are a multitude of factors that work against a mother’s will to breastfeed her child. People tell her she is not producing enough milk, is depriving the child of essential nutrients by not giving formula milk, leaving the child restless because he is not well fed and many more. Combined with these, the difficulty to make the baby latch on to the breast in the initial days or suck on the breast without falling asleep are some more factors that make the breastfeeding journey challenging. To top it all, the accumulated stress impacts the milk production. Exhausted, irritable and dealing with PPD, most women succumb to the pressure of introducing formula milk at this stage. This is why post delivery support and reassurance from the family and caregivers is extremely important. “A baby is naturally supposed to feed on the mother’s breast. Breastfeeding also gives the baby autonomy over his needs. He will feed until his tummy is full. On the other hand, when we bottle feed them, they are forced to have milk, as it is constantly dripping from the nipple. Kids who are bottle fed mostly spit milk,” informs Dr Nagarath.
  
 Breastfeeding is a natural process, unless there is a problem in nipple formation. Sometimes the nipples are inverted or flat, which can cause an issue. Apart from this, most women do not normally have a problem with production of milk. “You just have to let your baby suck your breast and give yourself that stimulus to enable the flow of  ,” adds Dr Nagarath.
  
 Many researchers have proved that a child who is breastfed has a better emotional quotient, is more mature and confident and also has complete development. A mother hugging and talking to the child while breastfeeding makes the child more sociable and affectionate. With so many benefits of breastfeeding for both mother and child, there is no reason a mother should deny breastmilk to her child...
 
 
