Panaji: More than two lakh devotees are expected to participate in the   year celebrations of Sai Baba’s samadhi in the state next month.

  The original padukas (wooden sandals) worn by the saint from Shirdi will be sent to Goa on October 12.
 
 The sacred padukas will be brought via the Maharashtra border at Patradevi, where Chief Minister, Manohar Parrikar and Union minister for AYUSH, Shripad Naik are expected to welcome them on behalf of Goans. 
 
 They will be brought to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium, Bambolim in a procession that could last around nine hours.
 
 At ten landmarks along the way, people led by ministers and MLAs will welcome the padukas, informed Anil Counto, president of the Sai Seva Samiti, Goa.
 
 The public will be able to participate in the Kakad Aarti (early morning puja), Madhyan Aarti (afternoon puja), Dhup aarti (frank incense offering puja) and Shej Aarti (late evening puja) and will be able to venerate the padukas at the venue on October 13 and 14. 
 
 Renowned artistes will perform at the venue and the two-day event is expected to be a grand affair.
 
 Suresh Haware, chairman of the Shirdi Saibaba Sansthan Trust, spoke of the large following Sai Baba has in India and abroad. One of the most revered saints, there are over 8,500 temples dedicated to him across 47 countries, including the US, the UK, Germany and Indonesia, Haware told presspersons in Panaji on Wednesday.
 
 While the darshan in Goa is expected to see 2.5 lakh devotees participating, the celebrations in Shirdi will be on a larger scale where around 4.5 crore devotees are expected to gather.
 
 Blood donation drives and health camps for the needy including persons with disabilities will be held during the centenary celebrations in Shirdi that will end in October 2018.
 
 Goa alone has more than 70 big and small temples of Sai Baba that are regularly visited by thousands of devotees, Counto said, adding, that this is the main reason why the centenary programme is being launched in Goa.
 
 Devotees gathered in large numbers in 2009 too when the padukas were brought to the state for veneration.
 
 
