NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday got eight more weeks’ time from the high court to further probe the death of  .

 HC relented after the police claimed it wants to explore forensic psychology, a relatively new mode of investigation, to conduct further probe in the death case of Congress MP   Tharoor’s wife.
 
 A bench of Justices G S Sistani and Chander Shekhar, however expressed anguish that even after three years the police investigation is still dragging on. It pointed out that the probe started in 2014 and in September 2017, the agency wants to try a new mode of investigation.
 
 “Should any investigative agency drag the probe for so long?” the court wondered, hoping that there won’t be any further delay in the submission of the final report.
 
 HC reminded the police that Pushkar’s son, Shiv Menon, is a party to the case. “He is a blood relation. He wants to know. His concern should be of paramount importance,” the bench underlined.
 
 In response, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain assured the court that the police has investigated every possible angle as it reached the end of the case, so the investigators want to also explore the new methodology of forensic psychology.
 
 Forensic psychology is an emerging field which forms an integral part of criminal investigation, prison and profiling systems, now being used in some developed countries, he said, while defending the decision.
 
 The bench then told the police to file an affidavit in two weeks and put on record how long it will take to wrap up the probe. During the hearing, BJP leader Subramanian Swamy, who had sought a court-monitored SIT probe into Pushkar’s death, said the franchisee cricket tournament Indian Premier League was also an angle which needed to be examined in the case. He sought to make the Enforcement Directorate should be made a party in this matter but the bench declined saying it may consider this aspect at a later stage.
 
 “We do not want to create any distraction at this moment,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on October 26.
 
 Swamy also alleged that the FIR in the case was lodged after considerable delay and even the post-mortem report was examined four times without any change in the findings on how Pushkar had died.
 
 The ASG, however, maintained that the autopsy report was examined several times due to inconsistencies in it.
 
