PUNE: The Bombay high court has quashed and set aside a Baramati special court's judgment of April 6, 2011that sentenced a man to 10 years' rigorous imprisonment for raping a 13-year-old girl belonging to a scheduled caste community.

 The girl's family had registered an FIR with the police in November 2009 following which the accused, Hasan Samshuddin  , was arrested on charges of rape, kidnapping, criminal intimidation and an offence under the SCST (Prevention of Attrocities) Act.
 
 “Zari (now 41) was tried by the special court which convicted and sentenced him in April 2011. He was then sent to judicial custody and spent more than six years before the high court recently allowed his appeal against the trial court's judgment. He has since been released from jail,“ Zari's lawyer   told TOI.
 
 The bench of Justice   observed in her judgment, “In the instant case, the deposition of the prosecutorix (girl) taken as a whole, does not in spire confidence. The evidence of the prosecuterix is not corroborated by medical or any other evidence. Under the circumstances, the accused cannot be convicted on the sole testimony of the prosecutorix.“
 
 The bench referred to a   judgment of 2006 which held that the prosecution's evidence is deemed insufficient if not backed up by medical evidence, or if the “highly improbable“ circumstances “belie he case set up by the prosecuterix“. 
 
 The bench observed that the conduct of the girl in not confiding with her mother about the incident till the day after the incident, when the latter questioned her, was highly unnatural. The medical report by doctors who examined the girl at the   did not indicate any ligature marks, which are to be expected if her hands were tied with a nylon rope. The doctor opined that the prosecuterix was habituated to physical relation, the bench observed.
 
 There were no other injury marks and the medical evidence ruled out the possibility of any recent forced sexual intercourse. In fact, it did not corroborate the girl's testimony , the bench said.Even the forensic and chemical analysis reports did not corroborate her testimony , the bench added. The court also referred to discrepancies in the police's recovery of nylon rope and handkerchief allegedly used in the crime.
 
