PATNA: Chief minister   is likely to go to Delhi to campaign on April 8 or 9 for the JD (U) in the upcoming   of Delhi ( ) election.

 Eyeing to expand its base outside Bihar, the party will take the agenda of prohibition and improvement of civic infrastructure to Delhi’s residential colonies, primarily to lure the large population of migrants from Bihar and eastern UP in the national capital.
 
 The party has decided to field candidates for all the 272 seats of the three municipal corporations in the national capital.
 
 Talking to TOI over phone, JD (U) national general secretary and incharge of party affairs in Delhi   said the party would field candidates from Jaat and Gujjar communities apart from migrants from Bihar and eastern UP.
 
 “We have also identified candidates from Sikh community, which has developed great respect for Nitish for organising Prakashotsava on such a large scale in Patna recently. “The AAP and the BJP have let people down by not fulfilling the promises they made before the last elections,” said Jha.
 
 The process of filing nominations is to be completed by April 5. “We have selected our candidates for most seats and have lined up a massive campaign involving most senior JD (U) leaders,” said Jha.
 
 Asked about the bonhomie between Nitish and Delhi CM   due to JD (U) joining the fray in the civic body polls, Jha said every party had the right to expand its base. “Also, the JD (U) is already there in Delhi. We had four MLAs in Delhi in the late ’90s. We had also contested the last civic body election. Besides, the AAP has failed the people of Delhi, especially the migrant population from eastern UP and Bihar,” said Jha. 
 
 The JD (U) had fielded 12 candidates in the last MCD election in 2012, and all of them had bitten the dust. “We have better prospects this time,” said Jha.
 
 The BJP has been in power in all the three municipal corporations -- north, south and east -- since 2007. “The JD (U) lacks any base in Delhi. They will face a massive defeat. As for development works, the three civic bodies with the BJP at helm have constructed railway underpass and multi-level parking and introduced digitisation of civic utilities, including map approval,” BJP’s Delhi unit vice-president   told this reporter over phone from Delhi.
 
