CHENNAI: How often have you heard a newly married couple complain about the pile of useless gifts they recieve? From wall clocks to photo frames and flower vases, these are either regifted or stowed away in the loft. A clutch of startups like ForMyShaadi, Wedding Wishlist, Wrappd and Zibonga offer gift registries where one can curate a list of gifts and share the list with their near and dear ones.

 Newly-married Vaishali Kalla and Chirag Chopra, who used For My Shaadi to create a gift list, found it useful as they were moving in to a new residence. “It takes a lot to set up a new place. For My Shaadi offers a myriad of options…we chose gift vouchers from Croma and Urban Ladder through which we could make purchases for our home. Our friends were happy that they had the option of buying us a gift from a registry - given today’s current cashless economy,” said the couple.
 
 Wedding gift registry, a popular concept abroad is catching up in India. These startups tie up with brands to offer a range of products from silverware, dinner sets, electronics and even experiences so the couple gets exactly what they want. “We have products as as well as vouchers. Having completed over 12 weddings so far, the registry has seen orders worth Rs 20,000 to Rs 2 lakh, with the average ticket size being Rs 75,000,” said Sudha Maheshwari, CEO, ForMyShaadi.
 
 And it’s not just gifts that couples can get through these startups. Kanika Subbiah founded Wedding Wishlist has gone a step further by offering ‘Charity’ as a category. “Many couples want to do their bit for the society on the occassion of their marriage. So they create a wishlist which is a mix of products, experiences and charity,” said the spokesperson. The startup has completed over 25 weddings and is now offering a platform for couples to create a wedding website, a wedding gift registry and services like save the date and thank you cards for the gifts.
 
 For brands, these registries serve as an additional channel for targeting customers. “The wedding market cannot be missed and for our international customers, gift registries have been one of the channels for purchasing our products,”said Parag, VP, sales and marketing, Magpie, gifts and home ware brand.
 
 The Chennai-based Zibonga which has tied up with brands such as Urban Ladder, Croma, Home Centre, Home Stop offers a cash registry as well. “Couples who initially create a wishlist, but want to have all cash can also do so,” said Sajan Abraham, founder, Zibonga. The startup has fulfilled the wishlist of 4 couples with 4 more lined up. The startup, which creates wishlists for free, charges a 5% transaction fee from brands.
 
 
