Iron, one of the most abundant minerals on earth, is required in human body as part of enzymes and proteins involved in carrying oxygen to cells and for regulating cell growth. Now you must be wondering about the link between   and  . Well, there are some evidences suggesting that high consumption of iron elevates the risk of developing  .
 
  A study was carried out that enrolled 85,000 middle-aged women and results concluded that women who consumed too much heme iron (the kind found in animal foods) have as much as 28% increased risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. Another similar study was conducted, where 33,000 healthy women were followed for 10 years. Results showed that women with high iron stores had higher incidences of Type 2 diabetes. The mechanism behind this may be attributed to high levels of iron damaging muscle tissues that decrease the body’s ability to move glucose from blood into cells and thus interfering with insulin production. The role of iron in diabetes is also supported by the fact that there was a reversal or improvement in diabetes with a reduction in iron load. Also, there is evidence that women with Type 2 diabetes who consume a high amount of heme iron and red meat have up to 50% increase in the risk of coronary heart disease.
  
  Iron is also a core component of prenatal vitamins but recent researches are claiming higher risk of developing gestational diabetes in pregnant women with high iron levels. In support, a new study, published in Diabetologia, showed that excess iron could increase the risk for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) at certain weeks of pregnancy. Hence, pregnant women should be monitored for iron (  routine recommendations for iron) to reduce the risk.
  
  Iron is a double-edged sword. If we lack it, we risk anemia and we have excess of it, we increase our risk for a range of conditions. Improvement in insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion can be achieved with frequent blood donation and decreasing iron stores. Diabetes foot is one of the most important and most devastating complications of Diabetes. All   patients are at risk for this complication.
  
  The interesting fact is that with proper care, education and early intervention this complication can be avoided and treated at a very early stage.
  
  If you are diabetic, avoid red meat and consume iron supplements only if it is really required and recommended.
  
  
 
  
  
