NAGPUR:   (NU) assistant registrar   was terminated from her services with immediate effect last week for her alleged involvement in revaluation/retotalling scam that was exposed by TOI five years back.

 Registrar Puran Meshram confirmed the development on Saturday stating the decision was taken on the basis of the departmental enquiry conducted by a panel led by lawyer Yogesh Dharashivkar. An order in this regard has been issued after pro-VC Pramod Yeole endorsed all recommendations made by the lawyer.
 
 TOI first exposed the scam on July 8, 2012, and her alleged involvement in the scam. She was charged with doing favour to her son in the engineering examinations where over 200 other engineering students were also believed to be the alleged beneficiaries. However, NU probed only one case involving her son, who was a student of  , and found her guilty of increasing his marks after revaluation through unfair means. Though NU withheld his results and degree, he was allowed to appear in the exams by the court.
 
 Interestingly, the university didn’t lodge a police complaint in this regard despite the fact that she was indicted for the scam for illegally helping out her son to clear the examinations.
 
 “We cannot directly lodge the police complaint because the matter is sub judice after Handa filed a case in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. As per the panel directives, we will be submitting our recommendations of her termination to the court,” Yeole said, adding, we have terminated her and sent the report to our   where she was posted.”
 
 The report is confidential so the details can’t be revealed, he said.
 
 Yeole further said he accepted the Dharashivkar’s report in toto and as per his recommendations for “strong measures”, he decided on her termination. “I came to the conclusion after studying the report and reply submitted by Handa,” he said.
 
 Asking about Handa’s son fate, Yeole refused to comment on it, citing his limited role in this regard. “It’s up to the VC and other officials on what punishment should be meted out to her son after he was found to be a beneficiary,” the pro-VC said.
 
