PATNA: Bihar Tailik Sahu Sabha (BTSS), affiliated to the BJP, on Friday served an ultimatum to the   ‘high command’ to withdraw the suspension of former state BJP vice-president and MLC Lal Babu Prasad for his alleged misbehaviour with LJP woman MLC before BJP national president Amit Shah’s visit to Motihari on April 19.
 
  State BJP chief   has gone on record saying he had kept the party’s high command informed on the developments arising from Lal Babu’s misbehaviour with the LJP MLC on the legislature premises. Rai also said the high command had suspended him from the party primary membership.
  
  Shah is scheduled to address a farmers’ rally at Motihari on April 19. The BTSS members said if Lal Babu’s suspension is not revoked, they would stage demonstration on the day Shah visits Patna en route to Motihari.
  
  Lal Babu belongs to the ‘Tailik-Sahu’ community of traders. BTSS members, including senior BJP MLAs and functionaries, sat on a one-day dharna at Gardanibagh on Friday in support of Lal Babu. State BJP vice-president Sunil Kumar, who presided over the dharna, called the suspension “unjustified”.
  
  Among those who addressed the participants in the dharna included legislators Ram Narayan Mandal, Dr C N Gupta, Lal Babu Prasad Gupta and   as well as former minister Sunil Kumar Pintu.
  
  Among others who also addressed the dharna were party functionaries Sanjay Gupta, Motilal Prasad, Ram Nath Gupta, Naresh Sao, Chandan Bagchi, Rashtriya Pragati Party president Amarkant Sah, Akhil Bharatiya Tailik Mahasabha state president Gaurishankar Sahu, BTSS functionaries Dharmendra Kumar, Sanjay Kumar,   and Manjit Anand Sahu.
  
  Curiously, the state BJP has suddenly been facing rift and convulsion within its ranks after the misbehaviour of Lal Babu with LJP MLC and the reconstitution of the state executive committee and office-bearers by party’s state president Rai.
  
  On Wednesday, former state BJP general secretary Sudhir Sharma also raised a banner of revolt against Rai and questioned his wisdom in reconstituting the state executive committee and office-bearers. He also announced to launch his ‘BJP bachao abhiyan (save BJP campaign).
