KOLKATA: A grieving mother’s emotional outburst on Facebook on Monday, a week after her 27-year-old daughter   died in a dawn car crash — coupled with police seizing   footage of two night joints — prompted investigators to prepare some tough posers for actor   Chatterjee when he appears for police questioning this week.

 With five friends contradicting Vikram’s “I-was-not-intoxicated-neither-was-I-overspeeding” statement to the media, police are piecing together the chain of events leading to the fatal crash in which   died. The CCTV footages show Vikram shaking a leg with friends and holding a glass.
 
 The actor’s advocate Rajdeep Majumdar said, “Vikram stands by what he told the media. He was not drunk. After the accident, he was taken to hospital. The doctor’s report says nothing on this account. The hospital records are there for anyone to see. The media clips being circulated are inadmissible in any court of law as evidence. Moreover, he is never shown drinking.” Majumdar refused to add anything, only saying Vikram will comply with all legal directives.
 
 Meanwhile, cops have put the entire onus of ascertaining whether Vikram was drunk that night on the hospital where he was treated. “We are relying heavily on the bed ticket of Vikram to ascertain his physical condition immediately after the accident. Its contents cannot be revealed,” claimed an officer.
 
 A woman friend, who recorded her statement to police, said in close circles she was completely aghast at Vikram’s claims that he was not intoxicated. “He was clearly drinking that night and that is what I told police and told them, if required, I will say the same before any court. I may be mistaken but there are others to corroborate this,” she was quoted as saying by a confidante. Given the contradictory claims, sources indicate, the probe will hinge now on technical and forensic evidence.
 
 Sharon in her Facebook post said, “We need answers and we have not got any...why??? what??? How?? She took the decision to trust a friend and trust her life with him at the wheel why did it go so wrong... not only did it end her life... but it was clearly reckless & rash ..negligence causing her life to be snatched away... she did not deserve this she was living life to the fullest planning so much more..”
 
 The police — who have maintained secrecy in this accident probe from Day One — refused to share basic information claiming they are still “collecting and collaborating” CCTV details even 10 days after the incident.
 
 They have also claimed the initial blood test report that can prove whether the actor was drunk was “yet to arrive”.
 
