Bengaluru: Commuting is a daily nightmare for residents of  , Langford Town and localities around Lavelle Road, Vittal Mallya Road and Residency Road. The day-long traffic congestion on roads snaking through these localities is worsened by private vehicles parked outside the many schools dotting the area. 

 Residents and school van drivers met on Friday to see what could be done to remedy the situation. Shanmugam PS, president of the Karnataka United School and Light Motor Drivers’ Union, said van drivers are open to any suggestion that wouldn’t hit their earnings and imperil the safety of children. The area has nearly one-and-a-half dozen schools.
 
 “Vans aren’t permitted to enter the school premises. Therefore, we don’t have any option but to park on the roadside,” said Shanmugam.
 
 The drivers are responsible for picking up the children from their classrooms and dropping them off at their homes. A few van drivers though felt that private cars ferrying single students are the ones to blame for the growing chaos.
 
  One of the clauses of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles (conditions for vehicles engaged in transport of schoolchildren) Act 2012, says the regional transport authority, along with traffic police and municipal corporation should specify parking and halting places exclusively for school cabs. Residents, however say that nothing has been done in this regard.
 
 In October/November 2016, following a meeting of representatives from schools located in the   and traffic police, schools were asked to take up a series of measures to help ease traffic congestion. These included increasing the number of security guards outside the school, giving loudspeakers to guards for them to be able to manage traffic, and ensuring parents followed road rules. “None of these were implemented,” said a resident.
 
 Residents feel traffic flow will be smoother if the vans are allowed inside school premises. They also say that schools are running beyond their capacity, and that the roads aren’t able to deal with the traffic that is being generated by the growing number of students.
 
 
