BATHINDA: Punjab Police are exploring the possibility of a left ideology angle to the bomb blast at Maur town of Bathinda on January 31, in which six lives were lost. Two days back, a retired Punjab Power Corporation employee and trade unionist Sukhmandar Singh were rounded up and raid was conducted at the residence of left ideologue and writer Harbhinder Jalal.

 Sources said the police carried out investigations to get any clue in the blast but let off Sukhmandar after a few hours. The police could not round up Jalal as he was not available at his residence when a raid was conducted. The matter came to light on Saturday when activists of a score of left and farm organizations went to meet Bathinda SSP and lodged their protest for “police trying to implicate left leaders in the blast case”.
 
 Left organizations have now threatened protest against what they call state police’s efforts to falsely implicating their leaders. They have even accused Punjab home minister of behind this attempt of harassing the leftists.
 
 Even 18 days after the blast, the police seem to be groping in dark. Earlier too, police had picked up one Kulvir Singh of Maur, who faced three cases during the time of Dera Sacha Sauda-Sikh standoff few years ago but was acquitted in all three cases. Similarly, Gursewak Singh of village Dhurkot in Barnala, who was also named in the killing of a religious figure in   in 2011 but was acquitted in 2015, was also picked up by police for questioning. Both these persons were soon released with police being unable to make any headway in the case. 
 
 On Saturday, state president of farmers’ organization BKU Krantikari Surjit Phool, Left-leaning Lok Sangram Manch state committee member Sukhwinder Kaur, Inqulabi Kendra Punjab activist Mukhtiar Poohla, Zamhoori Adhikar Sabha activist   jointly raised voice against police action.
 
 “Police are moving in a wrong direction with the motive of defaming the leftists, who are fighting for the causes of people and never could even think of such a dastardly act. The police knowingly picked Sukhmandar and raided the residence of Jalal and termed them  . We cannot tolerate this,” they said in a joint statement. They said if the police did not apologize for trying to pin the blame of blast on the leftists, they would launch a protest against it.
 
 When contacted, Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said, “We had directions to look into all possible the angles, including the Naxal angle, in the blast. Sukhmandar was called only for questioning and was let off after some time and Harbhinder Jalal is being asked to appear. Police are very serious to solve the case.”
 
