NEW DELHI/TRICHY: Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai on Monday met the protesting   from   at Jantar Mantar and assured them that he would help them raise their demands with Union ministers Arun Jaitley and  . The farmers have been staging a protest in the national capital for seven days demanding a Rs 40,000 crore drought relief package from the Centre for Tamil Nadu, loan waiver, besides other reliefs. 

 “Demands of the farmers are synchronous to that of the Tamil Nadu government. So, we will get appointments and make them meet the Union finance minister and water resources minister in a day or two," Thambidurai told reporters. Though the AIADMK leader requested the farmers to call off their protest, they refused to heed it. “We have trust in the leaders of the state government. But, we are not willing to call of the protest until the Centre satisfies our demands,” said P Ayyakannu of the Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, who is leading the protest. 
 
 Jantar Mantar which has been the epicentre of many a protest in the the capital has been witnessing a different kind of agitation for the past seven days. In all, 174 farmers from   and surrounding areas have been on an indefinite strike adorning skulls as garland. They have been eating, chatting and sleeping at the venue in support of their demand. Hundreds of Tamil youths united through social media had extended a helping hand to these farmers. 
 
 The farmers headed by P Ayyakannu landed in Delhi on March 14. Though they tried to protest outside the prime minister’s residence, they were taken away by the police and let off at Jantar Mantar where they have been continuing their protest. 
 
 “For the first two days we struggled a lot for food, as we didn’t have the required money to spend. Luckily, Tamil youths who came to know about our protest brought a variety of food three times a day”, says S Premkumar, 26, the youngest member of the association from   near Mannachanallur in Trichy. P Gunasekaran, 27, an IT employee in Delhi and a native of Musiri in Trichy district who has been at the forefront of organising aid for the farmers, said, “During jallikattu protest, thousands of youths came together and did whatever they could for the cause. But, farming and farmers are much more important than anything and we have united more Tamil youths through social media. That has helped to serve the farmers protesting at Delhi”, he said.
 
 Almost all protesting farmers have dues with cooperative as well as nationalised banks ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. Without waiving all their dues, they said that it was impossible to live. The farmers said they reached Delhi spending from their own pockets, that too borrowed from neighbours. 
 
 M Nachammal, 63, a farmer from   in Trichy district had availed of a loan of Rs 3 lakh to dig a borewell. The amount she has to pay now has swelled to Rs 7.50 lakh including interest for three years. However, she said she could not trace a drop of water from the well which forced her to keep her 7 acre land vacant without carrying out any work. “We pledged our jewellery for loan. Now I have lost everything. Since my two sons are agricultural coolies, even they too are struggling to make ends meet. We are living with the only hope that the entire dues will be waived. Otherwise we have no option but to commit suicide”, she said.
 
 V Rajalaxmi, 55, a resident of Nagamangalam in Trichy district, said she had already given a number of representations to the district collector, ministers and even the chief minister for writing off their crop loan dues of Rs 5 lakh. However, all of them had passed the buck to the centre saying all the demands could only be addressed by the Union government, she said.
 
 “Tamil Nadu is facing its worst drought in 140 years. Ten years ago we had cultivated 29 lakh acres but we have not sowed on even a single acre this year. The state government sanctioned a drought relief package worth Rs 2,247 crore. But that is not enough”, said P Ayyakannu.
 
 
