When the   of Madras tells you that music is his oxygen, it is pretty evident what his life is all about. The music maestro is riding the high wave, for his film, One Heart: The AR   Concert Film. With Mersal songs topping the charts along with Shankar’s 2.0 and Sundar C’s magnum opus Sangamithra in the pipeline, the composer is at a stage where he’s ready to face the camera and is also foraying into other aspects of filmmaking, including direction, writing and production. The composer, opens up about his latest film, why releasing singles is beneficial and more in this chat: 

 So, what really prompted the camera-shy Rahman to star in One Heart? “I thank my wife for this changeover. She is my stylist and started dressing me up well for events. It’s good to have someone who can take care of the way you look, right? I am a very instinctive person and don’t like to see myself on screen. But the energy of this film was great. We have dancers from Croatia, singers like Jonita is from Canada, Suraj from Pakistan… so it has a combination of people. I thought I should document it. We have seen legends like Michael Jackson and   do shows and they’ve always had cameras in the front, which I don’t like to. But now that I am comfortable with it, we decided to document the concerts. We got Nasreen Munni to edit all the interviews. It had a nice narrative and engaging, too. 
 
 We even re-shot some portions so that I didn’t have to cringe, take note of the double chin or feel my interview isn’t good,” he shares. 
 
 The film also comes with a strong message and its proceeds will go to Rahman’s One Heart foundation to help old musicians and their families. He says, “Every day, I get messages about families of musicians who are suffering from cancer, poverty or debt. This is a golden era for music and musicians as they get to do a lot these days, what with judging, performing and recording songs. Music as a profession still doesn’t have credibility. If someone says, my son plays the guitar, they ask, “Oh, what’s next”. On the other hand, if they say, he works in a bank and plays the guitar, the immediate reaction is, ‘oh, that’s good’. I think the support system is still not there. So, it is high time we bell the cat. Besides me, I also wanted other musicians and artistes to spread the word. In a way, we are paying respect to the previous generation and what we have is God’s gift.”
 
 Rahman recently mentioned that fame is a double-edged sword and how all the love can turn hostile in an instant. And that became true when there was uproar about how the Roja composer performed more Tamil songs than Hindi during the concert at Wembley Stadium, London. He explains, “Wembley had around 9,000 people attend the concert. Before I performed the last song, I glanced at the auditorium and it was still packed. The back patch was already empty and it must have had around 50 people. And we have always had those 50 people in every concert I perform. While doing a concert abroad, you have to look into logistics. You cannot do a big concert with just one section of people. You need unity — while there are Telugu people, who listen to Tamil songs, there are also people, who speak Malayalam, Kannada, Bengali, Punjabi, Urdu, who listen to all kinds of music. I respect that. But these days, one tweet can become headline, and unfortunately, one review can finish a movie. It is quite dangerous and it is quite unfair.”
 
 From 2.0, 99 Songs, Beyond The Clouds, Sangamithra, the composer has a lot in his kitty. Does he find it challenging working on so many projects with bigwigs? “How many big movies can we do in a year? I can only do what the film requires. Audiences place me in the first three slots when it comes to the people behind the film. But frankly, I am in the sixth slot — first come the actors, actress, director, story writer, producer and then me. And we follow this hierarchy. So, I cannot take a decision on my own. To get that power, we started YM Movies. If people want me to do what they expect, I have to start on my own,” quips Rahman.
 
 At this stage in his career, how does he handle criticism about his albums? “When an album doesn’t do well, it affects us. But I have to look at what limitations I have and how I have crossed them. So, if it is usually like that, I try and escape from signing the movie. An album is a combination of things. For example, Sachin: A Billion Dreams has three to four songs, which are all background scores. I thought it could have been better if there was a music video. People said the movie had great music and it ended there. But the film did well. On the other hand, the challenges are different these days for composers. Back then, it was all under one umbrella, one movie, one brand. Take for example, films like Lagaan, Rockstar,  . Today, the vision is different and the songs are disappearing. There is no use having a great song in a flop film,” he says frankly.
 
 What does he have to say about the recent trend of releasing songs as singles as opposed to releasing the entire album? He says, “The problem now is that everything is digital. If you give the entire album, the audience selects one song and assumes the other songs are not good. But this way, every song gets complete exposure. The trend was started by   for Kadal, when he first released Elay Keechan. I think that was my weakest song, but people started listening to it and turned out to be a hit. If all the songs were released together, it would have been lost.” 
 
 
