You have a grocery store in your apartment complex, but after a long day at work, you still have to whip up a meal for you and your family. Ordering out often isn’t a healthy option. So, what do you do? Turn to your neighbours. In many big apartment complexes, residents with a passion to cook are not only trying out different dishes for loved ones at home, but for anyone one else in the vicinity — all for a nominal price.

 The apartment complex in   where   lives has an app especially for residents, where she puts up information about what’s cooking in her house. Those who want to sample the dishes can call her and take back home-cooked food. Every day, Nanda updates people in her complex about her  ,   and   menu. If she is making Vada Pav at tea time, she makes 4-5 extra. “If no one orders, we eat it at home. This way, none of my resources get wasted and I get cash for it as well. It works for both parties — I get to finish whatever food I have made and the other person gets to feast on home-cooked dishes,” says Nanda.
 
  
  
 
 Nidhi Mehta, a mother of two, began trying different dishes at home after her kids, who always sought something new to eat, couldn’t digest the spicy, oily food in restaurants. This became her hobby and soon, a business. A resident of  , she supplies lunch and dinner to people in apartment complexes in a five-kilometre radius. “I wanted people to taste North Indian cuisine. I started off by catering for birthday parties, after which my friends motivated me to take it up on an everyday basis. I provide vegetarian and non-vegetarian lunch and dinner every day, with special dishes on weekends. I plan the menu two days in advance and only make as much as is required for the orders I receive,” she says. And how does she manage this while also taking care of two school-going children? “I get orders for lunch at 11 am-11.30 am, which is ready by 1.45 pm. The dinner orders come in around 7 pm. In between, I spend time with my children,” says Nidhi.
 
 Both Nanda and Nidhi’s clientele includes bachelors and families, and the advertising, they say, is done through word of mouth. 
 
