BHOPAL: Following various complaints, the district administration has warned CBSE affiliated schools in the city to refrain from malpractices and adhere to the board’s norms before making any decision.

 The local administration has set a deadline of 15 days for schools to stick to the board norms. A report of these schools will be sent to the board through administration, if they continue to violate CBSE norms. Speaking to TOI, Bhopal ADM Ratnakar Jha told TOI that many issues were raised by parents of students studying in  , which are in violation of CBSE norms. “The curriculum and the list of books the schools are using has to be put on the school website and the notice board so that private sellers can take note of it and make the books available in market. There has to be a level playing field for all the sellers. However, most of the schools don’t follow these instructions,” said Jha.
 
 CBSE has recently ordered all its affiliated schools to use   books instead of private books. The board even assured of making adequate arrangements for providing NCERT books for Standard I-VIII in CBSE-affiliated schools through their vendors across the country. However, many schools are still continuing with books from private publishers. “Now we have strictly instructed these schools to refrain from such activities else we will be preparing their report and send it to the board for initiating action,” added Jha. The parents have also raised objection, saying the school management forces them to purchase books and uniform from particular shops. The administration clarified that parents could purchase books and uniform from any shop. “These rules are not only for schools, booksellers in market will also have to adhere to them,” he added.
 
 The ADM said they have asked parents association to provide a list of violators within 15 days. He said wrong practices of school authorities cannot be accepted at any cost. Bhopal has been chosen as one among the eight major cities to have vendors of NCERT books across the country from where CBSE affiliated schools can purchase them for academic session 2017-18. In its latest circular, the board informed the schools that NCERT has made available eight vendors across India, which includes Bhopal, Ahmedabad, Ajmer, New Delhi NCERT headquarters, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Mysore and Shillong for purchasing books.
 
 
