NEW DELHI: In a speech lasting about 30 minutes peppered with sher-o-shayari, the leader of opposition in Delhi assembly,  , on Friday said that he could not find “any outcome” in the   despite going through it multiple times.

 “Last year there was a Swaraj Budget and this year there is an Outcome Budget. I haven’t seen any outcome so far. Tu iss tarah se mere saath bewafai na kar, ki tere baad mujhe koi bewafa na lage,” said Gupta, taking to shayari to express his feelings. He claimed that the government had promised the moon to the people and delivered nothing.
 
 Gupta said that it was highly worrying that Delhi had fiscal deficit. “The government’s revenue expenditure is going up while VAT collections are dropping. Demonetisation was announced on November 8, 2016 and tax collection went up in every state in November and December with the exception of two states, Delhi and West Bengal. Delhi’s tax collection on December 2015 was Rs 1,599.43 crore and in December 2016 was Rs 1,514.63 crore,” he said.
 
 He added that while the government has made grand announcements in education and health, the increased budgetary was eyewash since either the same amount or lesser funds were spent in these sectors as compared to previous years.
 
 “In Sisodia’s first speech, he said that expenditure would be twice on education and 1.5 times on health. Based on actual expenditure, there has been no change in either. In 2015-16, the actual expenditure on education was 17% of the budget. In 2016-17 it was revised to 18%. This year it was 18% again. Will improvement in education be restricted only to increase in classrooms? Is there any plan to improve enrolments, quality of education, etc?” he said.
 
 “The AAP government has shifted its goalposts making no mention of things like Wi-Fi, reducing corruption, etc. Even mohalla sabhas were absent from the budget,” Gupta said.
 
 The opposition leader said that the government seems to have no concern for SC/ST as just Rs 408 crore (0.8% of the total budget) has been allocated for them. 
 
 “The government talks of increasing minimum wages, but is there any action to ensure that the existing ones are being paid,” the opposition leader said.
 
