VARANASI:   vice-chancellor   on Thursday put a question mark on the investigations done by UP government and the district administration by claiming that the high-powered committee constituted by him under retired high court judge Justice VK Dixit will “reveal the truth” about the incidents that took place between September 21 and 24. After the violence and police action on September 23, chief secretary Rajive Kumar had ordered the divisional commissioner to conduct a probe and give his report, while district magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra had told ADM (administration) to start a magisterial probe. The commissioner submitted his report to the chief secretary on Monday night. While not giving any details, he admitted that the untoward incidents could have been avoided had the varsity administration acted in time.

 Tripathi told TOI on Wednesday that he didn’t know how the magisterial probe would be conducted. “I formed the high-level committee to ensure a thorough investigation. After the committee gives its report, the truth will be revealed and those accusing the varsity administration now will regret their actions,” he said. Tripathi seemed visibly rattled after returning from Delhi and didn’t take any administrative decisions a day later. He refused to form a dress committee to decide the new uniform for the proctorial board’s security personnel, who were asked to take off their khaki uniforms after a warning by the district administration and police on Tuesday evening. “I will not form a committee and the security personnel will work in civil dress till a decision is taken regarding their uniform,” Tripathi said. Before resigning as the chief proctor on Tuesday night, Prof ON Singh had mentioned that the dress committee would finalise the new uniform for the security personnel. The charge of the chief proctor’s office was given to dean of students MN Singh on Wednesday. Asked about his visit to Delhi, Tripathi said, “I shouldn’t have left the campus, but the executive council meeting had been scheduled from before. Many members had to go out station or out of country. If the meeting had been rescheduled, the quorum wouldn’t have been met. I just attended this meeting in Delhi and returned at night.” The VC was also surprised about the controversy over fresh appointments, including reports about regularisation of OP Upadhyaya’s posting in the medical superintendent office of SSL Hospital. He asked how anyone could know about the newly-appointed people when no envelopes of the selection committee had been opened so far. Upadhyaya confirmed that he hasn’t received any letter regarding his regularisation in the MS office.
 
