CHANDRAPUR: The chances of restarting of Ballarpur Paper Mill, currently under shutdown, have grown. Company workers have perked up after receiving one month’s salary after five long months. Sources close to the management claimed that officials are mulling restarting production in a next few days. 

 The second largest paper production plant in Asia is ailing since six months for lack of bamboo, the key raw material. The company has seen three shutdowns in last six months and has remained shuttered since December 15 last year.
 
 The plant saw first shutdown on August 16, 2016 and was revived after 45 days on October 3. It ran for next 28 days and was shut down on November 1, 2016. It was again revived on November 28, only to close down once again December 16.
 
 The lives of 3,600 workers, including 1,100 permanent and 2,500 contract labourers, of BPM went into tizzy as they were not paid salaries for four months.
 
 Sources said leader of recognised union,   (BPMMS),   held a meeting with the management on January 30 on the subject. Talks were fruitful and the company management assured to pay at least one month’s salary.
 
 The next day, other unrecognised union Ballarpur Industries Majdoor Sangh (BIMS) staged a protest march and observed bandh in Ballarpur. The company headquarters have sent funds to the Ballarpur plant and salary for one month is being paid to the struggling workers. Sources added that remaining salaries will be paid gradually as plant resumes production.
 
 Meanwhile, the BPMMS led by Congress stalwart Naresh Puglia and aides of guardian minister Sudhir Mugantiwar continued to trade charges against each other over the issue. BPMMS had charged that Mungantiwar, who is also MLA of Ballarpur, of playing politics over the plight of workers after he had directed administration to see that the workers of paper mill get their pending salaries. 
 
 In retaliation, Mugantiwar’s close aides — FDCM chairman   and civic chief of   — charged that the company and recognised union with being unable to run the plant due to financial crisis, but putting forth the fabricated reason of lack of bamboo supply. 
 
