CHENNAI: Over the last three years,   wicket-keeper batsman   has been a regular in the   first division league in Chennai. However, Jackson, who made his debut for   in the   this season and has been part of various India A squads, has decided to “opt out” from the top flight league and has moved down to the play TNCA lower division (second) league due to “lack of support on the leave front” from his employer Income Tax.

 While first-division cricket is a three-day format with all the top cricketers from Tamil Nadu and other states taking part, second division happens to be a 50-over contest that is conducted in the weekends.
 
 Jackson flew late on Friday to make his second division debut for   on Saturday at the  . Two hours after smashing a 141-ball 171, Jackson left for Bhavnagar (Saurashtra). The keeper-batsman has to follow the same schedule for the next 10 matches.
 
 “I didn’t get support from my department on the leave front. As first division is a three-day format, I decided to opt out. I signed up for Aruna CC as I had to register for TNPL as well. I will be playing second division this season as the matches will be played either on Saturdays or Sundays. I can fly down, play the match and leave the same day back home,” Jackson, who is a tax assistant at the Income Tax (Ahmedabad), told TOI.
 
 Jackson, who averages 50.29 in first-class cricket with 13 hundreds and 15 fifties in 49 matches, said not participating in the first-division league is a “big loss” for him before the domestic season.
 
 “From my experience, I think the quality of cricket played in the TNCA league is the best in the country. I used to get myself set playing here ahead of the season. Now, I have to do it in the second division. The good thing is there are quite a few quality first-class cricketers who are also part of the league. It’s competitive,” said Jackson, who scored a triple-century for Globe Trotters in the league last year.
 
 Despite being part of various India A squads, Jackson hasn’t been able to break into the next level. But Jackson remains bullish. “The season before the last one was the turning point for me. I did well in the Duleep Trophy, then I played a crucial part in Rest of India’s historic win…My duty is to score runs. A lot of keepers like Rishabh Pant, Dinesh Karthik and Sanju Samson have made various teams as pure batsmen. However, my focus is on improving as a keeper batsman as I feel it’s better to have both the qualities all the time,” said Jackson.
 
 
