THRISSUR: Police have decided to issue lookout notices against the officials of the Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre (NCERC), Pambady who have been accused of abetting the suicide of engineering student Jishnu Pranoy. The special investigation team probing Jishnu's death had filed a report earlier before the judicial first class magistrate, Wadakkanchery naming P  , chairman and managing trustee of the   as the first accused. Vice principal M K Sakthivel, assistant professor C P Praveen, PRO Sanjith Viswanath and college staff examination cell member Dipin are the other four accused.

 Lookout notices would not be issued against Krishna Das and PRO   as they have already filed anticipatory bail pleas, said Thrissur rural SP N Vijayakumar. Jishnu's family alleged that shortcomings on the part of the prosecution helped Krishna Das to get a five-day interim bail from the high court.
 
 Das had managed to get the bail by misguiding the court, said Sreejith, Jishnu's uncle. Das had told the court he won't be able to attend meetings convened by the Thrissur and Palakkad collectors to resolve issues. However, the meetings were held on February 15 and Das had not attended them. By then, the police had declared him absconding after naming him as one of the accused in the case relating to Jishnu's death.
 
 Thrissur collector Dr A Kowsigan said the district administration had only said that a management representative needs to attend the meeting. Palakkad collector P Marykutty said she too had not asked Krishna Das to attend the meeting convened by her to end the stu dents' agitation at the Nehru Group's college at Lakkidi. The prosecution should have strongly opposed Das's anticipatory bail plea by bringing these issues to the HC's notice, Sreejith said.
 
 The SP said the police have sent the   cameras at the college to a forensic lab to explore the possibilities of retrieving the images in them. The step was taken after it was found that someone had tampered with the CCTV images. Meanwhile, the students of the Nehru Group's colleges at Lakkidi and Pambady returned to their classes on Friday.
 
