CHENNAI: As the fight for   got tougher, the   (Amma) faction led by   on Monday released a party manifesto in its bid to win the prestigious seat. The faction, which fielded its deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran, is out to woo the tech-savvy voter with an exclusive mobile application for R K Nagar, mobile phone charging kiosks and wi-fi facilities at bus terminals and public parks.

 Dhinakaran, the first to hit the campaign trail, took time off to release the   at the party headquarters.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and senior functionaries were present. “Vision R K Nagar, the mobile app will be launched to resolve the grievances of the general public at once,” the party said. Guidance cell for employment for the jobless, mega job fair, free training centre to help candidates excel in competitive examinations for bank jobs and a world-class gymnasium, are seemingly aimed at the youth. The chaotic traffic at Korukkupet level crossing will be eased if Dhinakaran’s promise of a much-sought subway is realized. 
 
 The labour-dominated constituency, which got 6,450 LED lamps in the last two years, will get a multi-super specialty hospital, 10 polyclinics and mobile hospitals, if Dhinakaran is elected. The Tondiarpet peripheral hospital will be upgraded. He also promised housing for all 57,000 applicants, who had sought help from Jayalalithaa. Fishing community, a sizeable chunk of electorate, will benefit from the scheme, according to local leaders. A new fishing market with all basic amenities, and improvements to the existing one at VOC Nagar are aimed at fisherwomen.
 
 AIADMK spokesperson B Valarmathi said the manifesto has been prepared focusing on all sections. “People have huge faith in Dhinakaran to carry forward the legacy of Amma,” the former minister said. Schemes launched during Jayalalithaa regime, including the Rs 117 crore bridge at Ennore High Road-Manali Road level crossing, new arts/science college, metro rail between Washermenpet and Wimco Nagar, eco parks at Bharathi Nagar and C P Salai, construction of police stations and flyover at MGR Nagar and Patel Nagar across Buckingham canal will be implemented, said the manifesto. The weekly grievance redressal meet launched by Jayalalithaa will continue. A ten acre burial ground at Ezhil Nagar for Hindus, Christians and Muslims is on the cards.
 
