Mohali: Most of the school buses plying on the roads were either without women attendant or male attendant were without a uniform, a TOI reality check has found following the shocking murder of a student at Ryan International School in Gurgaon that has spread panic among parents.

 On the other hand, the safe school vahan policy report revealed that only two challans had been issued during the year, one for absence of woman attendant and the other for an expired first aid kit. A total of 356 buses and 29 schools had been checked.
 
 The school buses transporting girls as well as boys were supervised by male attendants wearing shabby clothes. The attendants were not wearing uniform and neither had name tabs. When questioned, bus drivers said woman attendants have gone on leave or had some prior engagements at their homes. “A female attendant is generally present but today they had gone somewhere,” said a driver.
 
 When asked to show the first aid kit, the attendants failed to produce one and reasoned that a regular attendant must know where it is kept.
 
 The matter was brought to the notice of deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra. She said, “Strict action will be taken to make transportation safer for children. We need to create awareness amongst the school bus operators to get antecedents of drivers and attendants verified from the police. We have seen that none of the school bus operators has got the antecedents verified. We will direct the child protection officer to carry out checks.”
 
 The DC on Tuesday had issued instructions to schools that no schools staff will use washrooms being used by school students. Also a woman attendant is mandatory in every school bus ferrying school children, especially girls. The DC said instructions have been issued regarding measures to prevent child abuse cases in the district.
 
 BOX
 
 Safe School Vahan Policy Report (till date)
 
 TOPIC
 
 TOTAL NUMBER
 
 1
 
 Schools checked
 
 62
 
 2
 
 School buses checked
 
 356
 
 3
 
 Challans issued
 
 2
 
 4
 
 Other discrepancies detected
 
 29
 
 
