MUMBAI:   Raj Thackeray has said that safeguarding the “unity and strength“ of Marathis in Mumbai was the only reason for his party to seek Shiv Sena's partnership for the upcoming  .

 “BJP is all set to throw Marathis out of Mumbai... I fear the February civic election would be Mumbai's last as the capital of Maharashtra. If BJP wins Mumbai's mayoralty then they will begin to de-link Mumbai from Maharashtra. It may take a long time, but the process will be anyway started,“ said Raj.
 
 “I went to Sena not for personal gain or political profit. My only aim was and is to safeguard the larger interest of Marathi `manoos' and preserve the community's unity and strength,“ Raj told TOI on Tuesday amid a raging social media battle on Raj's gameplan in offering an olive branch to the Sena ahead of the civic polls and the outcome of talks between MNS functionary and former   and Matoshree last Sunday .
 
 Denying that the MNS has been speaking to the Sena in softer tone in order to secure a safe political base for itself in the BMC elections, Raj said, “It would be patently wrong to say that. In fact, I have struck a high-decibel note on the issue of Marathi `manoos'.“
 
 “Marathis will have no future in Mumbai if the BJP seizes the city's mayoralty from the Sena after the municipal polls. The BJP is interested in Mumbai, and not the Marathis who have been living here for centuries. For (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi and (BJP national president) Amit Shah, Mumbai is a hen that lays golden eggs. They will see to it that Marathis, whose number is fast dwindling, are banished for ever from Mumbai. The Sena should realise this,“ he said, adding, “The Sena-MNS should have teamed up to forestall BJP's attempts to de-class Marathis from Mumbai.“
 
 Admitting that MNS was passing through a “rough patch“, Raj said, “There are ups and downs in politics. But, teaming up with Sena was not our narrow poll strategy . The Sena, which claims to have interests of Marathi-speaking population close to its heart, should be aware of BJP's devious plan to de-link Mumbai from Marathis -their language, traditions and cultural ethos.“
 
 Matoshree summoned MNS functionary Bala Nandgaonkar last Sunday , but Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday his party had no plans to look for new allies. 
 
