MUMBAI: Forty-eight hours after the HSC question paper for Marathi was leaked, two more papers for Saturday’s exams were similarly out on an instant messaging app. TOI got a copy of the 80-mark Secretarial Practice paper 13 minutes before it was distributed in exam halls across the state. Within minutes, at 11.01 am, copies of the Physics paper went viral on the app as well.

 Students are allowed to enter exam centres till 11.30am. On Saturday, more than 1.3 lakh students sat for the Secretarial Practice exam in Mumbai division and more than 2.6 lakh across Maharashtra. In case of the 70-mark Physics paper, 94,623 appeared in Mumbai while more than 4.5 lakh took the exam across the state. Like the Marathi paper, these two were also received by a teacher of a tutorial, indicating the leak was not contained among a few students. At the same time, the paper was shared on a group of HSC aspirants.
 
 The Political Science paper, held in the afternoon, was attempted by 28,546 students in the Mumbai division.
 
 Between Marathi and Saturday's Physics and Secretarial Practice exam, less than 200 candidates in the state appeared for History and Development of Indian Music and English literature on Friday. On Saturday, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education officials were quick in acknowledging the leak and registering a complaint with Vashi police.
 
 Division board chairperson Dattatray Jagtap informed Vashi police around 2pm. “Once we received the images from TOI, we verified them with the Secretarial Practice question paper and found that they were the same. Same was the case with the Physics paper. However, I saw the images of the Physics paper only around 1pm,” said Jagtap. TOI has screenshots of all the pages of the two tests that took place in the morning. 
 
 Vashi police are investigating the matter and with the help of cyber cell trying to trace the source of the images on WhatsApp. While the board had earlier denied the Marathi paper leak, officials later accepted that the question paper was indeed doing the rounds before the exam and used the details handed over by TOI to register a police complaint.
 
 Jagtap said it was becoming impossible to comprehend where the “mischief” originates. “Unless we understand what time the images were clicked, it is difficult to say whether the source is a student or exam-conducting officials. Since they began circulating before 10.50am, it could be the job of an official or supervisor,” he said.
 
 Question papers are distributed to students at 10.50am to give them 10 minutes of reading time before the paper begins at 11am. Students are allowed to enter the exam hall between 10.30am and 11.30am. Students can leave the exam hall only after 11.30am. But the timing of the paper leaks has left the board officials confounded.
 
 “Widespread leakage of question papers is taking place. The government needs to take this seriously or the board will lose its reputation,” said Narendra Bambwani, owner of a coaching class.
 
 In the past two years, too, the Book Keeping and Accountancy paper had leaked.
 
 Teachers in the city have demanded prompt action. “If this continues and board doesn’t take moral responsibility and take corrective measures, teachers and students will lose trust in the system. The police will be able to find the source of this one incident but the loophole needs to be fixed,” said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri.
 
 
