MUMBAI: Following complaints about integrated coaching programmes flouting norms, the education department has warned parents against taking   in such set-ups for classes XI and XII. A ticker stating the same was uploaded on the FYJC admission website on Monday.

 Members of   met the deputy director of education on Monday to complain about alleged malpractices at 36 junior colleges in the city. “These colleges tie up with coaching centres and their teachers do not conduct classes. Students have to pay fees at the colleges as well as the coaching centres. The education department is aware of this and has still not taken action against any of the colleges. We have recordings of these courses being offered at three colleges in the city,“ said  , core committee member of Yuva Sena.
 
 Over the past few years, these programmes have gained popularity with students from science stream. In a description of how the system works, a popular coaching class on its website said, “The main advantage is that a student's time is saved as she does not have to travel between classes and schoolscolleges.The student will be taught physics, mathematics and chemistry in the college or on school premises by our faculty, three to four days a week.“
 
 Education department officials said it will act on Yuva Sena's complaint. “We will verify if the colleges are tying up with coaching classes and manipulating attendance. Coaching class teachers cannot take classes in junior colleges. If they are found to have done so, we will take action,“ said BB Chavan, deputy director of school education, Mumbai.Eduction inspectors will also be asked to visit colleges whe re the courses are on offer, inquire and submit a report. He added that the education department's divisional fee regulatory committee will look into any complaints related to fees if parents approach them.
 
 Parents, however, feel there is a need for the state to improve the education quality .“Students go to coaching classes because there isn't good faculty in most colleges and students will lose out at competitive exams. Going to both coaching classes and colleges is very hectic for students and hence the integrated course is preferred,“ said a parent of an engineering student.
 
 
