BHUBANESWAR: The   (ECoR) has decided to provide behavioural training to the porters, who are now called as Sahayaks, of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack stations to help them in serving the customers in a very pleasant way.

 Bhubaneswar station has 81 licensed porters, while Cuttack station has 38. Sometimes people complain that the porters charge extra for lending their service. Even they show rude behaviour after not getting their demanded fee. But the training will help them how to deal with the passengers in a very gentle way, said a railway official.
 
 “ECoR has decided to give tips on customer care and customer interaction to the license porters. As they are the first interaction level of the passengers as soon as one enters into the station area, they need to be sensitized,” said ECoR chief public relations officer JP Mishra. 
 
 They will be taught on handling passengers in a very friendly manner, helping them out in platforms by providing information and not to take excess charges. They will also be suggested on how to lead a healthy life and avoid practices like alcohol, official sources said. 
 
 Sibaram Behera, a sahayak, welcomed the decision of the railway to provide them behavioural training. “But we will also raise some issues related to our problems before the Railways,” he added.
 
 He said the railway has given a rest room for the porters, but it is not inside the station. It is situated outside the station. “We sometimes miss the train while coming out of the rest room. So we demand a rest room for us inside the station,” he added.
 
 He said the passengers now use trolley bags to carry their articles in a single luggage. Recently the station has installed lifts and escalator in the station, so people easily carry them in the lifts and escalators. So they don’t need porter to carry it, he added.
 
 Sura Jena, working president of  , said, “Because the porters earn meager amount of money, Railways should help them by providing health insurance and free medical service at Railway hospital,” he added. 
 
 Mishra said the porters and their family members are already having access to outdoor facilities at Railway hospital, “All facilities due and mandated by ministry of railways will be provided to them,” he added.
 
