By Kumaran P 

 Increasing popularity of   as the “next Brigade Road”, and   by the  , has emerged as a huge problem for residents Kammanahalli’s 5th Main Road – a public road is being encroached by the traffic cops.
 
 There are “No Parking” signboards everywhere, but motorists continue to violate the traffic rules. With footfalls increasing at the various outlets in Kammanahalli, violations of no-parking rule have spiralled; but this in turn has led to the Banaswadi traffic police seizing more number of vehicles and parking the seized vehicles on 5th B Main Road, which is a link road connecting to 5thMain Road. The road is also used to park vehicles used in various crimes that were seized to park there by the law & order police.
 
 Moreover, they have put up barricades on the road. This has completely blocked the road, preventing residents from using it.
 
 Amounting to encroachment of public property by the police, the residents seeking access to 5th Main Road by using the shortcut through 5th B Main, are now forced to take a long detour to reach their destination on 5th Main.
 
 While city’s lakebeds are being encroached by being turned into debris dumping yards, here’s a road which is being encroached by the traffic police. It is causing problems for the residents as they are unable to use the road due to seized vehicles being parked on the road, which is barricaded.
 
 J Alex, a resident of the area, said, “Our house is just here, and in case we come from Kammanahalli Main Road, we have to take a roundabout and then reach home. It is about why this road is blocked for the general public? This is unfair.”
 
 Another Kammanahalli resident, Ravi Kumar, said, “When we are booked for not wearing helmets and for other violations, why don’t cops follow the rules and regulations? And why do they consider the road as their property? We have discussed this in our association meetings; but they keep saying there is no space and the issue is always that.”
 
 Another livid resident pointed out: “They have dumped vehicles on the footpath and closed the road using barricades. Beat that! The road was freshly laid and then the traffic cops not only encroached upon the road by also took away the newly constructed footpath.
 
 The shocker is that while 5th B Main is public property, the police claim it is there’s; and while traffic police blame it on law & order police, the latter claims it is a “joint place” for both.
 
 Banaswadi traffic police inspector Prabhakar told Bangalore Mirror: “Yes, we are aware of it. Those vehicles are booked under law & order cases, not traffic violations. They are given a new space now and they will be shifting the vehicles to that place soon.”
 
 The law & order police official attached to Banaswadi police station said: “That is a joint place for us and the traffic police. Moreover no one uses that road.”
 
 And then he said, “Why are you bothered about this so much? It’s a small stretch and it is police property; this is not harming anyone there.”
 
 However, another resident pointed out that not only are residents put through inconvenience, “there is a burial ground nearby and even for that we are forced to take a roundabout and go. Whom do we ask? Can the cops be questioned by the public? No! We should only listen to them and allow them to continue with their ways.”
 
 While the residents endure the problem every day, Banaswadi corporator Kodanda Reddy told this paper: “We have recently asphalted the road and it is clean now.
 
 Vehicles are all shifted to a place near Fire Station and it’s been kept there. Nothing like closing the road has taken place. The public can easily walk.”
 
 
