SHAHJAHANPUR: Seven-time   from Shahjahanpur constituency Suresh Khanna (BJP) is aiming to achieve a feat that nobody else has managed in the electoral history of Uttar Pradesh, by winning the assembly seat for the eighth consecutive time. Khanna has been winning from the seat since 1989. He was recently made in-charge of the party’s Lucknow unit. Another  , Shyam Deo Roy Choudhary, who has never lost from Varanasi south constituency since 1989, is also in the race on winning for the eighth time.
 
  Till date, late   holds the record of winning the assembly polls for nine times from   constituency in Amethi district. He contested polls between 1967 and 2012 but he lost the assembly elections in 1977 and 1993.
  
  Khanna, 62, plunged into politics during his days at Lucknow University in 1977. He was then studying law. He contested his first assembly election from Shahjahanpur constituency in 1980 as a Lok Dal nominee and was defeated by Congress contestant Nawab Sadiq Ali Khan.
  
  Undeterred by his defeat, Khanna continued to work in Shahjahanpur and in 1985, BJP awarded him a party ticket for the assembly polls. He was defeated by Nawab Sikandar Ali Khan by a margin of 4,000 votes.
  
  BJP again fielded Khanna in 1989 and this time, he defeated Nawab Sikandar Ali by a narrow margin of some 5,000 votes. The results surprised many as Punjabi voters constitute 1% of the city’s electorate.
  
  After that win, Khanna never looked back, winning consecutive elections.
  
  The BJP legislator’s win is attributed to his clean image and public work. He is the man behind developing Shaheed park in the heart of the city, building of Hanumant dham temple where a 104-foot tall Hanuman statue has been built on the banks of river Khannaut, setting up of Vivekanand library and the under construction Ram Prasad Bismil Museum.
  
  This time, Khanna will be facing SP candidate Tanveer Khan, three times nagar palika chairman. In 2012, Khanna defeated   by a margin of 15,000 votes.
  
  Suresh Khanna told TOI," I have always tried to work towards improving the basic necessities of life in the city. Park, library, national Martyr museum and Hanumant Dhaam temple, degree colleges have changed the city in a positive manner. I am currently focussing on Party's aim of 300 plus seats in Assembly elections and personal milestones are not very important for me.
  
  Shyam Deo Roy Choudhary and I have won seven consecutive times and party has recently awarded both of us but this is not something we are only focussing at."
