AHMEDABAD:   has said that it is the state government's duty to protect the interests of  , whose husbands dump them here and flee abroad. 

 The HC is of the opinion that state goverment authorities must take all steps to bring such offenders back to India to face trial.
 
 Justice J B Pardiwala observed, “I have noticed in many cases that very soon after the marriage, the husband leaves for a foreign country and never returns. This act on the part of the husband and his family members ruins the life of a newly wedded girl.”
 
 The court has also asked for suggestions from the government to resolve the issue. 
 
 “In many matters, I have called upon the state government to make necessary suggestions how to secure the presence of such persons, who have gone into hiding. The state government owes a duty to protect the interests of these newly married girls, who are being duped by their husbands,” the court observed further.
 
 The high court’s observations came during the hearing of a quashing petition filed by a Vadodara resident, Vishwant Patel, whose cousin Mrugank Patel fled to the UK after marriage leaving his bride behind. 
 
 Mrugank and Dipti were married on September 1, 2015, and matrimonial disputes began soon after. The angry woman, Dipti filed an FIR with Laxminagar police station charging her husband and in-laws of cruelty. By the time the FIR was filed, Mrugank had left India.
 
 Justice Pardiwala quashed charges against Vishwant, but directed the state government to secure presence of the husband for the purpose of trial. 
 
 “The state government is directed to initiate appropriate proceedings in this regard including a red corner notice. At any cost, the husband, who is sitting fine in a foreign country, leaving his wife in dire straits, should be brought back to India to be proceeded in accordance with law,” the court said.
 
 The high court further directed all airport authorities across India to keep a watch on the person so that he can be arrested as soon as he lands in India.
 
 
