NEW DELHI: The city is getting back one of its most popular entertainment destinations on Friday. A little less than 10 years after it was shut down, causing a lot of heartache, Chanakya is back as a   with a PVR multiplex, a   (NDMC) project. PVR will begin to screen films on Friday with the mall to be opened in a phased manner, beginning October. 

 The project took off in 2008 after the Council awarded the contract to DLF. This was preceded by a long legal battle with the original owners of the   which began after Chanakya’s lease expired. The construction work, however, got delayed for various reasons, including the need to seek clearances from various agencies like Delhi Fire Service, Airport Authority of India, Delhi Urban Art Commission and Delhi Development Authority. 
 
 NDMC was keen on completing the project ahead of Commonwealth Games in order to attract tourists and cater to diplomats and officials of the participating countries but the construction work could actually start only in January 2013. Meanwhile, malls have sprung up all over the city with multiplexes, food courts and retail outlets. But many old-timers have been looking forward to Chanakya reopening though in a new avatar.
 
 The multiplex, now housed in the mall, will have three screens with a capacity of 1,000 people. This will also bring the tally of PVR screens across the country to 600. There is ample parking space with a dedicated underground parking.
 
 “Chanakya will house some of the foremost Indian and international luxury brands, a 3-screen PVR cinema and a multi-cuisine food space offering the best dining experience in the city. The brands that are slated to open at Chanakya include Hermes, Mont Blanc, Versace Collection, Nirav Modi and Grassroot by Anita Dongre, to name a few,” said a DLF spokesperson.
 
 NDMC officials said that once the mall-cum-multiplex is thrown open to people, they will redevelop the Yashwant Place Market complex. With Chanakya’s demise, it fell on bad days. Customers were drawn to other parts of the city. An amount of Rs 60 crore has been set aside for the project to salvage it.
 
 “Yashwant Place has been famous for its good quality leather goods, handicrafts and street food. Landscaped gardens and a proper parking facility will be part of the redevelopment project,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
