Hubballi: The movement launched by the people of Gadag and surrounding villages to protect   forest hill has forced the state government to hold a public   on   at Dambal village in Gadag district to decide whether to retain the   for the eco-sensitive Kappatgudda.

 Through a notification in November 2016, the state government had withdrawn the conservation reserve tag to Kappatagudda citing no public consultations were held while according such a status to it in December 2015. 
 
 Following this, large-scale protests erupted in the region under the leadership of Tontadarya Mutt seer Siddalinga Swami, demanding the restoration of conservation reserve tag to the hill. The protesters also alleged that the state government is trying to promote mining in the hill. 
 
 Bowing to the increasing pressure from the public, the government has now decided to collect the opinion of the people. Speaking to TOI, Yashpal Ksheersagar, deputy conservator of forest, Gadag, said: “People can submit their appeals both orally and in writing, based on which we will submit a report to the government.”
 
 Already 15 gram panchayats which fall under Kappatgudda area have passed a resolution to re-declare the hill as conservation reserve. If Kappatgudda is declared again as conservation reserve, then prior permission from the National Board of Wildlife is a must to take up any non-forestry activity in the hill.
 
 S S Pattanshetty, secretary, Tontadarya Vidyapeeth, Gadag-Dambal, who is also taking active part in the Save Kappatgudda movement alleged that government had withdrawn its notification to facilitate mining activities in the hill with an intention to help some mining barons.
 
 “The people from various villages, activists and environmentalists will attend the meeting and record their opinion in favour of protecting Kappatgudda,” he added.
 
 BOX
 
 Kappatgudda was first declared as reserved forest in 1882 during the British era. Spread over 33,000 hectres Kappatgudda is famous as the oasis of the arid region. It houses various species of wildlife, medicinal plants besides being a rich source of water. This hill covers Gadag, Dambal, Belagadi, Kalkeri, certain parts of Haveri and Koppal district.
 
 
