MANGALURU: While two teenage girls from Mumbai ran away from their homes petrified of the annual examinations, in Mangaluru, too, a similar incident took place- but with an added twist.

 A minor girl from Bengaluru, studying in a school here, concocted a kidnap story. Reason: She had run away to spite her mother who did not allow her to use her mobile and was nagging her to study. But when she was cornered, the kidnap story was hatched.
 
 A couple of days ago, the class IX girl told the police that she had been kidnapped from Mannagudda area and was abandoned by the kidnappers at Kadri Park. The girl lives with her mother in a paying guest accommodation at Car Street. On the day of the incident when the girl was at the tuition centre, she got a call from her school near Alake that she has to attend an oral examination immediately. The tuition centre authorities allowed her to go to school.
 
 When the girl did not return home in the evening, the mother approached Mangaluru North police station. By then the girl, who had lost her way ended up at Kadri Park, and called her mother. When she saw her mother with the police, she panicked and weaved the abduction story.
 
 The girl told police that she was kidnapped by a four unidentified persons in an Omni van from Mannagudda. She lost consciousness after the miscreants sprayed something on her face. When she woke up, she found herself abandoned at Kadri Park.
 
 The case was transferred to Barke police station as the place of offence (alleged kidnap) was near Mannagudda. The Barke police, though, found loopholes in her ‘story’ went along with it. 
 
 The police said a medical examination confirmed that the girl was not sexually assaulted.
 
 
 
 
 On Thursday, when they produced her before a magistrate, the girl blurted out the truth that she had spun the story out of fear. She never expected her mother to approach the police. 
 
 Barke police sub inspector said after she gave a fresh statement that she had ‘made up’ the kidnapping story, we went through the   footage obtained from in and around the area and found that no such thing as ‘mentioned’ by the girl had taken place. 
 
 “The girl wanted to scare the daylights out of her mother as she had reprimanded her the previous day for being constantly on her mobile instead of studying. But after walking down from Car Street to Alake, the girl wanted to extract her pound of flesh by making her mother suffer. Lost in thoughts, she lost the way as she is new to the place. And then she panicked, when she discovered that her mother had approached the police,’’ said the officer. 
 
 The police said pranks can be considered a serious offence and could invite filing of a case because of the waste of manpower and effort.
 
