KOLHAPUR: As many as 2.58 lakh copies of ‘Shivaji Kon Hota’ (Who was Shivaji) by rationalist   has been sold in the past two years, showing the wide acceptance of his thoughts even after his death.

 Pansare was shot by unidentified gunmen on February 16, 2015 and has succumbed to the injuries on February 20.
 
 The book, ‘Shivaji Kon Hota’, was first published in 1988. It had sold 1.42 lakh copies till his death. But the sales skyrocketted in the two years after his death. 
 
 Historian Jaysinghrao Pawar said, “Pansare has depicted Shivaji as a king of the common people, who had established the sense of belonging among them. Shattering the prevailing thought that Shivaji was anti-Muslim, Pansare has given a different colour to Shivaji’s Muslim policy and pointed out that there were many Muslim commanders in his forces. Instead of euologising the valour of the king, he concentrated on Shivaji’s administrative policies, social justice and equal treatment to all religions.”
 
 Professor  , president of the Shramik Pratisthan, who manages the sales of the book, told TOI, “We have sold 2.58 lakh copies of the book after Pansare’s demise. The book has great demand from the central and northern Maharashtra. Even incidents of piracy have taken place. The book also has huge demand from the Urdu schools across the state.
 
 He added, “The book has been translated into Urdu, Hindi, English, Kannad, Guajarati, Malayalam and Bengali. The Kerala government has distributed the book in government schools. Pansare has brought forward the other side of Shivaji.”
 
 Megha Pansare, daughter in-law of Govind Panasare, said, “The thoughts are immortal. It does not end with the person. The book is acting as a torch-bearer for many youngsters. The success of the book lies in the presentation of Shivaji. The progressive thoughts of the medieval king and his welfare policies have been described in simple language so that and any layman can understand it. The piracy of the book shows the popularity of the book and the thoughts of Pansare on Shivaji.
 
 BOX
 
 Pansare’s thoughts stay alive
 
 * ‘Shivaji Kon Hota’ has been translated into seven languages -- Urdu, English, Kannada, Guajarati, Malayalam, Bengali
 
 * Great demand from Pune, Mumbai, Jalgaon, Nasik, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nanded, Solapur 
 
 * Copies sold till Pansare’s death: 1.42 lakh 
 
 * Copies sold after his death: 2.58 lakh
 
 Source : Shramik Pratisthan Kolhapur
 
 
