NASHIK: The civic body has decided to set up four electronic   collection centres in the city to manage the   of  .

 Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is also in the process of identifying e-garbage collectors, who will collect e-waste and dispose them off.
 
 E-waste is a term used for electronic products that are no longer in use. These electronic devices become trash after a few years of use. They include computers, TVs, printers, monitors, cell phones, CD players, etc.
 
 The municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna informed a gathering during a meeting of the Information & Technology (IT) firms here on Thursday that NMC has taken firm initiatives to tackle the problem of e-waste in the city.
 
 The event was organised by Shiv Sena MP Hemant Godse and the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) to promote Nashik as an IT hub.
 
 “There have been small IT companies in the city and the efforts by the IT companies and industrial associations like NIMA will definitely boost the IT growth of the city. E-wastage will also be a major issue with the growth of IT sector in the city. We are planning to set up e-garbage collection centres at four locations, shortly,” said Krishna.According to him the civic body will involve private parties who will be entrusted with the responsibility of collecting e-garbage of the city. 
 
 “The e-garbage will be collected from four locations in the city. The e-garbage collectors to be appointed shortly,” Krishna added. 
 
 Presently, NMC is collecting around 400 tonnes of solid waste per day within its jurisdiction and a considerable part of it is e-waste. 
 
 Solid waste is collected through garbage collection vehicles in the city. For which, the NMC has appointed contractors who are collecting the solid waste in the city, but there is still no separate system to collect e- garbage in the city.
 
 “Most of the large industries are following norms to dispose off the e-garbage. But, NMC’s initiative accumulates e-garbage through specified collectors at four centres. This will also help industries manage their e-waste,” said Harishankar Banerjee, president, NIMA.
 
 Vijay Dekate, NMC’s health officer said, “We still don’t have the figures of how much e-garbage we collect from the city.”
 
