NAGPUR: Live web streaming of counting of votes from 12 centres at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee hall remained disrupted for most part of Thursday, leaving civic officials and the media upset.

 NMC had arranged   at the hall and conference room inside the new administrative building to keep a close watch on the developments at counting centres as well as getting updates.
 
 At around 10am, mediapersons were left clueless as no official was present to provide updates on poll trends coming from the counting centres. Initially, the media was asked to watch the live feeds from the standing committee hall. But, the footage kept buffering, forcing journalists to join municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and chief observer of NMC elections Vijay Kumar in the conference room.
 
 Here too, journalists were not given immediate entry but it took some persuasion before Hardikar let them in. After sometime Hardikar left the conference room.
 
 However, in the conference room too, the system didn’t work till noon. Senior officers, including additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare and assistant commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha, pulled up representatives of the private company for the mess.
 
 “It is total flop. You made tall claims and wasted our time,” Kumbhare told the representatives before leaving.
 
 Even as the company officials were busy fixing the system, an official suggested that online TV of media channels be played on the screen.
 
 Finally, the officials gave up and started taking down figures through WhatsApp or on phone from the centres to compile tabulation sheets, thus delaying the process.
 
 The transmission remained poor with sound missing and visuals appearing at times. The feed from Laxminagar Zone was showing a woman official holding a mike since morning at the counting centre.
 
 Around 12.30pm, when Hardikar returned and announced the trends at the end of first phase of counting, there was confusion if live webstreaming was working properly. Noticing that the visuals resembled with the one that were recorded a day before, he called up a centre in Laxminagar zone to cross check. He asked if officials there were indeed sitting idle. Fortunately, it turned out be live feed this time as the operator sourced Internet connection through data card.
 
 However, the whole exercise seems to be wasteful since no official looked interested in keeping a watch on the centre through live feeds.
 
 Connectivity provider Vodafone and system support United Data officials present in the hall denied any shortcoming on their part and blamed the NMC’s Internet provider. They said there were issues with local area network (LAN). However, in the morning, they had told TOI that the feeds were getting disrupted because of the browser.
 
