BHUBANESWAR: The family members of Gajapati palace's former manager   and her three siblings, who allegedly committed suicide in August last year, have sought chief minister  's intervention for an expeditious   into their deaths. 

 Expressing displeasure over the sluggish pace of probe by the state crime branch, the bereaved family members wrote to Naveen on Monday, requesting him to direct the the investigating agency to arrest those who drove them to take such an extreme step. The family members alleged that the crime branch is soft-pedalling on some influential politicians, including  , who was named in an FIR for allegedly pushing the four persons to end their lives. 
 
 "We are not happy with the way the crime branch probe is heading. Though police had already registered cases against Rao and others, including some local BJD and BJP leaders, the crime branch which took over the investigation from police is yet to turn the heat on them. We urge you (chief minister) to give us justice," Amulya Patra, Ananga's brother wrote in the letter. 
 
 The bodies of Ananga, her sister Bijaylaxmi and brothers Sanjay (personal assistant of Gajapati king Gopinath Narayan Deo) and Santosh were found hanging from the ceiling of their house, about one kilometre from the royal palace, at Paralakhemundi on August 21 last year.
 
  Police had, based on prima facie evidence and post-mortem reports, said they had committed suicide two days before the recovery of bodies. 
 
 "Some local mediapersons, Rao and other politicians had ganged up and accused   and Sanjay of having grabbed the palace property. They also accused my sisters and brothers of keeping the ageing king in confinement and of mismanaging the palace money. These baseless allegations tarnished their image, forcing them to end their lives," he added. 
 
 Amulya's sister Pushpalata said the police had seized three suicide notes from the room. They bore the names of Rao among others, as responsible for their suicides. The crime branch simply questioned a few accused and sat quiet after that, she added. 
 
 However, the crime branch refuted allegetations of the probe moving at a snail's pace. Rao got interim relief from the Orissa high court after he applied for anticipatory bail. "We have so far interrogated many persons, including former BJD Gajapati district president Basant Das," said a crime branch official. Recently, the Gajapati king was shifted to a private hospital from Chennai for treatment. The crime branch officials refused to say whether they have already questioned the Gajapati king Gopinath in this connection.
 
