Ram Paltan Tiwari a marginal farmer in UP’s Balrampur district is not too excited about the much applauded loan waiver scheme recently announced by UP CM Yogi Adityanath. 

 Tiwari owns seven bighas land which is just over an acre, putting him squarely in the target group for the scheme. But he has no bank debt.
 
 “In this whole terai belt you will find very few small farmers who have got bank loans. There is too much headache, too many procedures and then, people take cuts. If we need money we have to go to the money lender,” laments the elderly farmer. 
 
 About 86 lakh small and marginal farmers will have their bank debts up to Rs.1 lakh waived, as per the UP government’s claims. 
 
 This is not a small number and has cheered up a large number of small farmers suffering from financial crunch brought on by droughts and dwindling incomes.
 
 But   data shows that less than half of the small and marginal farmers in the vast state owe money to banks. Majority of such indebted farmers have taken loans from informal or non-institutional sources like local money lenders, traders, friends and relatives or bigger farmers.
 
 The smaller the farmer in terms of land holding, the less likely that he or she will get a bank loan, the data shows. 
 
 Among farmers with less than one acre of land, just 28% have outstanding bank loans with the remaining 72% owing money to non-formal creditors, mainly money lenders.
 
 Among farmers holding one to five acres, the share of those with bank loans rises to 67%.
 
 So, while   will probably derive political mileage for fulfilling an election promise, on the ground this policy may not provide the much needed relief to the poorest sections of farmers.
 
 Experience with previous debt waivers has been similar. The biggest such scheme was announced by the   in 2008, with Rs 52,520 cr waived off across the country. 
 
 According to a study done by R Ramkumar of the   (TISS), in most of the states the benefits were cornered by farmers with bigger land holdings.
 
 In UP, there is a clear possibility that this is what will happen given the nature of loan disbursals. Another issue troubling farmers is that this is a one-off scheme. What happens afterwards?
 
 “With rising costs,we don’t get enough returns on the harvested produce. While this scheme will give some relief, the future is still murky,” says Sohan Lal, a farmer in Gonda, smirking at the prospect of Rs.45,000 loan getting waived.
 
