KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The war of words between the CPM and the CPI over bringing cabinet decisions under the   continues unabated. CM   and CPI state secretary   expressed their differences on the subject while speaking at different public functions on Thursday.

 While speaking at the annual conference of legislative secretariat employees association here, Vijayan said Kerala was the only state which provides information on cabinet decisions in its official website.
 
 “But information that couldn't be divulged, won't be divulged,“ he added, admitting that only a part of cabinet decisions were made public.
 
 Criticizing the CPI indirectly, Vijayan said some quarters were trying to spread misinformation on the government's stance.
 
 “I am not responding to certain allegations as I don't want to spark a controversy and not because I have lost the ability to react,“ he said expressing displeasure over the continuing criticism from the CPI on the issue.
 
 Earlier, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said at tempts were being made to distort facts for the convenience of the administration. “By distorting facts, whose interests are being protected? The elected administration is bound to protect the interests of the public. The CPI will oppose any move to clip the wings of the RTI Act,“ he said while inaugurating the seminar, “Right to Information and Cabinet Decisions“ in Kochi on Thursday.
 
 The CPI secretary, who has been vociferously supporting disclosure of cabinet decisions under the RTI Act, said certain information affecting the security of the country cannot be disclosed and his party was not against it. “Section 8 (i) of the Act gives exemption for disclosure of cabinet notes. But the same Act says that after taking a decision on the cabinet notes, they can be disclosed. But those who rule the state have failed to understand it,“ he said.
 
 The Parliament passed the RTI Act under common minimum programme during the reign of the first UPA government, said Kanam.
 
 “However, attempts have been made to sabotage it from the very beginning. Veteran CPI leader A B Bardhan and former CPM general secretary   fought against the move to sabotage the Act,“ he said.
 
 Since the early days of the government, both the CPM and the CPI have taken opposing views on disclosing cabinet decisions under the RTI Act.
 
