GAYA: The fortnight-long  , during which pindadaan is offered by believers for salvation of their ancestors’ souls, ended in Gaya on a somewhat dull note on Wednesday with pandas reporting “footfall deficit” due to demonetisation and economic slowdown.

 Though the exact number of pilgrims visiting the Falgu for performing the rituals could not be known immediately, Panda Mani Lal Barik estimated the number of pilgrims this year fell by about 20%. Even those who came were short of cash and made significantly less offerings, he said.
 
 “Quite a number of pilgrims wanted to make offerings through online money transfer. Their plea was turned down as the pandas were not ready for electronic money transfer,” said Barik.
 
 Asked if demonetisation and general economic slowdown were to blame, Barik refused to hazard a guess. “Maybe some pilgrims postponed pindadaan due to flood in several parts of the state,” he said.
 
 However Pradeep Singh, a pilgrim from Raipur in Chhattisgarh, said several people could not make it to the event due to the after-effects of demonetisation and agrarian crisis. Farmers constitute the single largest group of Pitrpaksh pilgrims visiting Gaya.
 
 Sources said few private health camps could also not be organised due to the GST effect. Pharmacists used to supply free medicines to run these camps, including the one organised by a major public sector bank, in the past. This year, however, the medicine dealers pulled out due to GST-related issues. The bank too was reluctant to organise the camp due to the ongoing exercise to curtail social service expenditure.
 
 The 2000-strong Gayawal pandas, it may be mentioned, live on the earnings of Pitrapaksha for the rest of the year.
 
 Conceding that the footfall was less than expected, Gaya DM Kumar Ravi said he was not in a position to give reasons for this for now. “The reasons have to be studied and analysed. The shortfall was not very significant in terms of number,” said the DM. 
 
 He also said that the level of cleanliness was much better this year. To its credit, the district administration made the mela area cattle and beggar free.
 
 
