HUBBALLI:   Pvt Ltd, an IT startup floated by people from non-technical background, has been honoured with the  , an initiative of   to acknowledge and reward brands and leaders for their business excellence and for taking their companies towards success through innovative marketing techniques and work ethics across Asia.

 The award was presented in Hong Kong recently. The startup featured in the special edition of Stimulus’ coffee book and “World of Business” magazine.
 
 Speaking to TOI, V R Govindgoudar, managing director and CEO of Young India Infosoft Solution, said that the company was awarded for its unique service concept that is e-space, a chain of software retail outlets in tier-2 and tier-3 cities of the state. “We provide customized software packages for micro, small, medium enterprises and educational institutions. Our achievement was reviewed by Price water house Coopers and individual scoring by juries, compromising government and industry experts and the editorial team of ‘World of Business’ magazine,” Govind goudar said.
 
 Govindgoudar said that there were three rounds of surveys and 100 startups and achievers from 40 nations were selected for the award. “Our startup stood one among 20 Indian awardees,” he said.
 
 Keshav Kulkarni, a franchisee for e-space in Vijayapura, said that he has been a hardware dealer for the past two decades. “When we took the franchise of e-space, we found its new concept by local people. Now we have a dozen of satisfied clients in Vijayapura district,” he said.
 
 Tarana Malhotra, vice-president of the startup who is based in New Delhi, informed that currently the company has 32 techies and marketing executives and 25 franchises in Karnataka, Delhi, Kerala and Goa. “Our startup has provided direct and indirect jobs to over 100 youths — most of them are from non-IT background,” she added.
 
 “However, this prestigious award has increased our responsibility of making it as community entrepreneurship by involving local youths of a particular city or region,” she said.
 
