SECUNDERABAD: The Telangana government's proposal to convert the historic   ground and   ground into state secretariat moved a step further with the Central government seeking an evaluation report from the   Office, Telangana Circle, Hyderabad.

 Chief minister   has proposed to build secretariat on the Bison Polo ground. The state government has approached the Centre seeking allotment of land as the Polo and Gymkhana grounds belongs to the Defence ministry. The Polo and Gymkhana grounds are centrally located. The vacant parcels of land are also on the arterial SP Road that connects Secunderabad with Hyderabad.
 
 According to sources, the Director-General of Defence Estates (DGDE), Delhi, has sought an evaluation report from the Defence Estates Office.This is seen as a major step in the direction of handing over of the grounds to the state government.
 
 Last week chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi and sought Bison Polo and Gymkhana grounds for construction of new Telangana secretariat. This is the second time that the state government made efforts to acquire the Bison Polo ground Gymkhana ground for the secretariat in the last two years. The government moved the proposal in 2015. But it could not proceed further due to land row between the Defence authorities and the state government.
 
 “Based on the instructions received from the DGDE, Delhi, we have assessed the value of Bison Polo ground and Gymkhana ground in Secunderabad Cantonment. These two grounds are located in heart of the city and based on `standard schedule rates' (SSR) we evaluated them. As per SSR, the cost of both grounds was assessed at nearly `500 crore. A report was sent to the DGDE,“ defence sources told TOI.
 
 “We are clueless about the deal on the Bison Polo ground Gymkhana ground. We do not know if the Centre has sought land for land or cash for land.The final decision is with the Centre,“ a senior official said.
 
 In another development, a team of Defence officials visited Vikarabad after the state government identified 1,000acre barren land in lieu of nearly 100-acre defence land required for its ambitious skyway project in Secunderabad Cantonment and laying of alternative routes after the closure of civilian roads in the AOC, Secunderabad. “A clear picture will emerge in a month or two,“ the official added.
 
