NEW DELHI: The   that the   killers had audaciously left behind after 
  in Dwarka some days ago proved their undoing. Cops used the names mentioned in the note to   one of the shooters belonging to the self-designated " " group. Aman Kharkhari was arrested on Thursday, while two of his associated were detained for questioning.

 “The men were at Khadkhadi village in Hapur to commit one more murder where they would again leave a telltale note,” said Surender Kumar, DCP (Southwest). “However, the team led by ACP Rajinder Singh received information about their presence there. Kharkhari opened fire at them but was overpowered.”
 
 Besides murdering 32-year-old Vikas in Dwarka’s Sector 23 on Monday, the gang, police discovered, was also involved in the killing of another man in Chhawla in May and had left the similar note beside his body. 
 
 The men belonged to the gang led by Rakesh Bharti, a gangster from Haryana wanted under MCOCA for some years now.
 
 Bharti, apparently a movie buff, had thought up the ruse of depicting his gang members as vigilantes to spread terror among his rivals. The notes that the   left behind with the victims were meant to draw the attention of the media.
 
 In some cases, the victims were their enemies that they projected as “criminals”. Vikas, for instance, had been bumped off after the gang suspected him of having an affair with one of Bharti’s relatives. Within 24 hours of killing Vikas, they had also gunned down a man named Pradeep and injured his brother Pawan, their fault being their bike had brushed against the gang’s car.
 
 Kharkhari too is a fan of gangster movies. “He always hoped that someone would make a movie about his escapades. The man and his associates hoped to create an image of themselves as morally upright criminals,” said a police officer. The other members of the gang were identified as Devender Khadkhadi, Sanjeet Bidroh, Umesh Kaakrola, Mahesh Ismail and Shekhar.
 
 They drove around in the stolen Hyundai Verna car at night and opened fire at their targets. 
 
 Their hit list included drug dealers, men accused of acid attacks and rape, gamblers and quacks, and peculiarly, “anti-nationals”. Bharti had eliminated a man named Puneet Yadav, whose uncle had a property dispute with Devender, one of his henchmen.
 
 The gang had started stealing luxury cars for use during their operations. A Toyota Fortuner they had recently robbed from a businessman’s driver has been recovered.
 
