PUNE: Environmental activists and lawyers have sent a petition letter to the Chief Justice of India expressing serious concern over a move by the Centre to dilute norms in appointment processes of the chairperson and judicial members of the National Green Tribunal. 

 “The very objective, of establishing the   as a mechanism to deal with issues related to environment, will be defeated if the move comes through in this form,” environmentalist Vishwambhar Chaudhary and lawyer Asim Sarode, wrote in the letter to the CJI.
 
 Among other things, the changes suggest that the NGT chairperson can be anyone who is a Supreme Court Judge or qualified to be a Supreme Court Judge or Chief Justice of High Court or has been an expert member or judicial member for three years. Also permitted are persons of ability, integrity and standing with a special knowledge of, and professional experience of not less than 25 years in law, including five years of practical experience in the fields of environment and forest. As opposed to this, the NGT Act of 2010 prescribes that the chairperson should be a current or former Supreme Court Judge or Chief Justice of High Court. 
 
 Sarode, who heads the NGT Bar Association in Pune, said: “If we go by recent changes, then instead of a Supreme Court Judge or a Chief Justice of any High Court, even a law officer of the pollution control board can qualify for the post of NGT Chairperson. This vagueness, it seems, has been created to minimise the importance of the National Green Tribunal. The qualification of judicial members has also been diluted.”
 
 He continued: “When the NGT Act of 2010 clearly mentions that a judicial member has to be a Supreme Court Judge or High Court Judge or a Chief Justice of a High Court, the new rule states that it can be anyone, ‘who is, or has been, or is qualified to be a Supreme Court Judge or someone who has held a judicial office in India for at least 10 years’. The new rule also cuts term of office of NGT members from five years to three years. The objective of the government is clear behind making such new rules - it wants to curb operating independence of the NGT.” 
 
