NEW DELHI: The   and the   will start formal discussions on holding simultaneous polls to   in at least half the states soon, after the current round of   in five states gets over in March.

 Speaking to TOI, Law Commission chairman Justice BS Chauhan said simultaneous polls were possible and could be done along with the 2019 LS polls if a consensus was evolved with various stakeholders. "After the assembly polls are over, we will discuss with the EC various issues regarding holding of simultaneous polls to at least half the states along with the next parliamentary polls in 2019," Chauhan said, adding that it was possible and members of the law panel needed to discuss modalities with the EC.
 
 The matter has already been discussed by the standing committee on law and justice which, in its report submitted to Parliament in December 2015, had made some suggestions on holding simultaneous polls, including conducting assembly elections in half the states in the first phase along with LS polls, and in the remaining states closer to the year in which they complete their five-year term.
 
 The Centre is likely to make a formal reference to the law panel to initiate deliberations on simultaneous polls after the current round of Assembly polls are over. In the past, both the law panel and the EC had discussed the issue in depth. The latter had made a detailed submission before the standing committee on law and justice articulating various options.
 
 Chauhan said simultaneous polls were the norm after Independence and for the first three general elections (1952, 1957, 1962), all assemblies went to polls with the LS. This cycle of simultaneous polls was disrupted in 1968 and, thereafter, when some Assemblies were dissolved before their term ended. The LS, too, has been dissolved several times, the first time in 1970.
 
 A study by   found that elections were being conducted for two to five assemblies almost every six months. The flip side of regular polls is disruption in governance and development since the government is bound by the model code of conduct.
 
