PUNE: It's right time to invest in luxury housing since smart negotiations are possible in the current scenario.

 As against a popular consumer expectation, not all kinds of properties will witness a drop in prices. While affordable and mid-range property prices are expected to remain unchanged, negotiation is still a possibility in the luxury market.
 
 Luxury property prices might fall. There is a reasoning behind the price fall. Ashwinder Raj Singh, CEO Residential Services, JLL India opined in November 2016 that traditionally in the luxury and high-end segments of housing segment, legal banking financing channels always accounted for only a small part of all transactions. "The demonetisation move is likely to result in luxury property prices dropping by as much as 25-30 percent as sellers struggle to offload properties to generate liquidity," says Singh.
 
 What makes luxury houses different from the others? Apart from the size of the unit, sellers concentrate on premium interiors decorative, imported hardware, furnishings et al. The scope of negotiation, therefore, arises here. With the market not favouring any transactions, sellers are willing to cur tail the expenditure on interiors thereby making the property cheaper for buyers.
 
  
  
 
 Buyers, whose budget otherwise might not be able to accommodate a luxury property, should utilise this opportunity to negotiate prices accordingly. This is a good time to invest as most of the luxury projects are located in areas with good social and physical infrastructure. Also, the government has initiated efforts such a lowering of home loan interest rate which make a purchase easier. Demonetisation, along with a host of measures like RERA and GST, will give the sector, a new direction in near future.
 
 Decoding Pune's luxury property According to   data, the current status of this particular segment is good in terms of inventory, demand and rental yield too. Maximum units fall in the Rs 1 crore-Rs 1.5 crore price bracket. A growth of 3.4 percent was noted in the luxury market.
 
  
  
 
 Interested buyers have ample options to choose from across Pune. The localities with highest inventory include   leading with 14 percent luxury residential supply, followed by   and  , with 6 and 5.5 percent, respectively.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Choose the right destination be referring to the price trends. A healthy and upward trend means prices are on the rise and over the years, you would profit.Rental yield represents annual return from renting your house in that locality. Higher the yield, higher would be monthly earnings.
 
 
 
 
 All three localities seem bankable as the trend seems to be consistent without any abrupt change. The average price per sq ft of Baner is Rs 7,198 per sq ft; Kalyani Nagar is Rs 9,454 per sq ft and Koregaon Park is Rs 10,903 per sq ft.
 
 Fighting against uncertainties, the luxury residen luxury residential market is hopeful to see some transaction in the following months. Investing in a unit at a good location, spread across ample space, along with branded amenities at a lower cost will be profitable.
 
 
 
