NAGPUR: The newly-elected   standing committee chairman   will present the revised civic budget for the 2017-18 at a special general body meeting on May 29.

 Former municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had presented a Rs1,707.80 crore budget for the current financial year. Sources said Jadhav’s budget may cross Rs 2100 crore. His predecessor Sudhir Raut had presented a Rs2,048.12 budget. Jadhav has already hinted at not imposing any new tax or revision in property tax. Though civic chief's budget came into force on April 1, it will be replaced by Jadhav's budget now. 
 
 Sources said Jadhav's budget may not propose any new project. They added the standing committee would revise the civic chief’s budget estimates by suggesting measures to increase the revenue by implementing various schemes.
 
 To compensate for abolition of LBT, a source said, Jadhav’s budget will focus on streamlining property database. He will be taking help of technology to unearth property tax evasion. He may also seek financial assistance from state government.
 
  still relies on government grants rather than augment its own revenue. Even Hardikar’s budget had proposed 55.12% of NMC’s income from government grants. In the last fiscal, over 61% of NMC income had came from government grants while 39% came from property tax, water tax, market dues etc.
 
 Though NMC’s budgetary figures have grown manifold, actual revenue generated has fallen way short for several years. This means projects remain on paper while the civic body keeps adding ventures to the list of pending projects year after year.
 
 “The main reason for this shortfall is the exaggerated revenue targets set by the standing committee. But, the elected members keep inflating the budget every year while opposing any tax reforms to generate more revenue,” said   corporator Duneshwar Pethe.
 
 In the last 10 years, many projects proposed by standing committee chairmen in their respective budgets have remained non-starters for want of funds. 
 
