NAGPUR: Banks in Vidarbha got around Rs 220 crore cash deposits in 1500   accounts after November 8. The data compiled by financial regulators show that almost every account had funds up to a lakh, yet the permanent account number (PAN) was not quoted by many depositors.

 For any cash deposit of Rs50,000 and above, the depositor has to mention PAN. However, in Rs70 crore of such deposits made in over 750 accounts cumulatively, no PAN was quoted. This was despite the amounts being much above Rs50,000 in a majority of cases. This indicates the depositor may have submitted Form 60 under   rules. This is a declaration that a person’s income is below the taxable limit and so a PAN was not obtained.
 
 Such a declaration is likely to be given by the Jan Dhan account-holders themselves as they are in the low income group. The account-holders may have made deposits directly in own name though money may have been given to them by someone else to evade tax, say financial experts.
 
 There are deposits up to Rs7 lakh in a single account too. Around 300 accounts got Rs2 lakh cash deposits. After demonetization, there was sudden increase of deposits in no-frills Jan Dhan accounts. Agencies like income tax department are now compiling data through banks to look for cases of tax evasion.
 
 Jan Dhan accounts were opened as a part of government’s financial inclusion plan and big amounts are not expected to be deposited in them. The taxmen will now be marking suspicious accounts from the lot. Details like sudden increase in deposits post-November 8, multiple addresses on a single PAN, or other discrepancies will be looked into. Further data on such deposits will be later called with even the depositors likely to be summoned, said sources.
 
 Sources in banks said soon after the note ban, they had seen huge queues of Jan Dhan account holders coming to deposit cash. The banks had no option but to accept the money. A source in a PSU bank shared an audit report of the branch’s post demonetization transactions. It was seen amounts of Rs45,000 to Rs 48,000 were deposited in these accounts and withdrawn within a short interval.
 
 A clarification has also been sought by the field offices from   (CBDT) on treatment of cash over Rs2.5 lakh found in possession of housewives.
 
 Meanwhile in a recent action taxmen seized cash worth over 40 lakh in new notes from a businessman in the city.
 
 
