HYDERABAD: After getting no response from   about their gold ornaments, scores of customers thronged the office at   on Friday and asked officials to return the gold as soon as possible.

 The customers, who patiently waited for more than 10 days, vented their ire and said the management had not bothered to tell them about the lost goods till now.“For 10 days, we were eagerly waiting to hear some news from Muthoot officials, but we did not receive any. When we visited the office today, the official said they can’t return the gold till the police release some confirmation on the gold recovered,” Ramesh G, a customer, said. “We are poor people and the ornaments we pledged is all we have. Losing it means a lot for us. I hope we get our gold as early as possible so that we can move ahead in life,” he added.
 
 Muthoot officials expressed their helplessness about the whole situation. “We would need a few more days to start the process of returning gold. The office has been sealed by the police and we have no clue whether any gold has been recovered. Once we get some clarity on whose gold has been recovered, we will start buying gold for the remaining people. Most probably we will start returning it by January 15,” an official from the   said.
 
 Meanwhile, officials have released a list of 45 people and confirmed that their gold is safe. “Earlier, we said that about 5 kg of gold is left with us after the robbery. Now, we have released a list mentioning whose gold is safe with us. Once we send a message, these 45 people can come and collect it. The others will have to wait for a few more days to get their gold,” the official added. 
 
 According to the list released, 4.225 kg of gold worth Rs 8.22 lakh is currently present in the RC Puram branch of Muthoot. The majority of this belongs to people who pledged it under the Interest Prepaid Loan (IPL) scheme. On December 28, six robbers posing as   descended on the Muthoot office and fled with 46 kg gold and Rs 1 lakh cash. After getting a lead from the CCTV footage, special teams went to Karnataka and Maharashtra to nab the robbers. During the course of investigation, it was revealed that the six robbers were residents of Maharashtra and had formed a gang while doing time in a Mumbai jail. The kingpin had dressed up as a Sikh and was sporting a turban. No more details were known about him. To commit the robbery, the accused had set up a den at Wadi in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka and had used a bike and a Scorpio car. 
 
