NOIDA: A nine-year-old boy was kidnapped and murdered by a man and his two accomplices in   village under Phase III police station area a few days ago apparently as a revenge against his maternal uncle regularly meeting the daughter of the accused. The decomposed body of the boy was recovered from the third floor of a flat on Thursday night. 

 While the main accused, Nanhe (40, is at large, his two accomplices – Tejpal Singh (35) and Neeraj (38) — have been arrested. According to police, the   was an act of revenge as the boy’s maternal uncle, Shaktiman (20), used to meet Nanhe’s daughter aged 14. 
 
 The two families had quarrelled over the issue in the past, police said.
 
 The boy, Shlok Kumar, who originally belongs to Shahjahanpur, lived with his mother Rajwati (35), sister Neha (13) and brother Yogi (11) in a rented accommodation in Bahlolpur village.
 
  The boy’s uncle Shaktiman (20) also lived with the family. Rajwati works in an export company in Sector 63. Her husband Kamal Kumar had expired two years ago due to illness.
 
 Rajwati said that Shlok had gone missing while playing outside the house on March 9. “I had gone for work while the children were at home. I returned in the evening and found him missing. We launched a search in the neighbourhood but could not find him. We then registered a missing complaint at Phase III police station the same night,” Rajwati said.
 
 Rajwati said she had got some calls from an unknown number claiming that her son had been kidnapped. “I got the calls on March 11 and 13. The caller demanded a ransom of Rs 3 lakh for his safe release,” she said. The victim’s family said that they had told police about these calls and alleged that the police did not make enough efforts on time to rescue the boy. The police on Thursday night found the boy’s body in a sack on the third floor of a building where Neeraj lived.
 
 They swung into action when some neighbours informed them about bad odour coming from the flat. They arrested Neeraj and Tejpal from the village. However, Nanhe, the main accused, managed to escape from the village. Neeraj told police that Nanhe had given the sack to him saying there were some goods inside it. Nanhe had asked him to keep the sack for a week and promised Rs 5,000 in lieu of it. Police suspect the accused thrashed the boy and strangulated him to death.
 
 Ummed Singh, SHO, Phase III police station, said the victim’s family had informed police about the kidnap only on Thursday.
 
 An FIR for  , murder and causing disappearance of evidences under Sections 364, 302 and 201 of IPC has been registered. The post-mortem report is awaited.
 
 
