KOCHI:  , one of India's most provocative and versatile contemporary artists, was announced as the curator for the fourth edition of the   (KMB). The announcement of the first woman curator for the   was made during the closing ceremony of KMB 2016 by the chief guest of the event, culture minister  . 

 "I am delighted that the jurors thought I can deliver. It is early days yet and my thoughts will no doubt undergo several changes going forward, but I view this as an opportunity to do something special," said Dube, who was present at the function.
 
 Balan who described KMB as a rallying point against intolerance and infringements on freedom of expression, said that the state government understood the value of India's only Biennale as an agent for change. "The face of Kochi and Kerala has been changed over the past three editions of the Biennale. The government recognises both its cultural and economic importance and will provide all support going forward," Balan said.
 
 Former education and culture minister M A Baby, who also spoke at the function, described the Biennale as an "organic interaction between artists, cultural personalities, state leadership and a vibrant society".
 
 Delivering the welcome address, KMB co-founder Riyas Komu said, "While KMB 2012 marked the birth of a new movement in the history of Indian contemporary art, KMB 2016 reasserted Kochi's position as a site for insights and a place for multiple concerns and perspectives. The Biennale has reasserted itself as a radical force and alternative platform for contemporary art in India," he said.
 
 KMB 2016 has seen the record number of footfall of all the 3 edition of the Biennale, with over 6.5 lakh visitors over the 108 days art fest.
 
 After thanking the Biennale's artists, sponsors, partners, patrons and back-end staff, KMB co-founder   said, "The KMB is a people's Biennale - both in terms of its attendance and its engagement with the public. Just as we begin together, we end together." 
 
 Following the function, Thaikkudam Bridge held a concert after an opening set by Suraj Mani and The Tattva Trip.
 
 
