LUDHIANA: Facing difficulty in getting their sons and daughters married due to the stigma of belonging to a village branded as a place of drug addicts and peddlers, the locals along with panchayat members of   village on Saturday took a pledge at a gurudwara to launch a crusade against drug abuse in the village.

 The villagers, many of whom were drug addicts keen to get rehabilitated, peddlers and prominent residents, also gave an oath in the form of an affidavit to officials of Ludhiana (rural) police, promising to provide information on peddling of drugs and also act as volunteers in rehabilitation of addicts to help the village get rids of drugs completely.
 
 “There are around 45 addicts and peddlers in our village which has a population of 1,200 and that is why our village has earned a bad name for drug abuse. Now, we are finding a match for our sons and daughters. Villagers said that there are around 35 youngsters of marriageable age, who have not found a match for them.
 
 Locals rue that even those villagers who have no connection with drug addiction or peddling are paying the price.
 
 “Nowadays, people from other villages don’t ask for land holdings of a particular family. They just want to be assured that the person being considered for marriage doesn’t have addiction problem. This is the reason, people from other villages or cities think twice before finding a match in our village,” said Manjeet Singh.
 
 Santa Singh, the village sarpanch, said, “We wanted to shed this image. We approached the Jagraon SSP and later gave affidavits from the panchayat, addicts and other villagers. Also we took pledge in the name of Guru   n   to fight against the drug menace.”
 
 Some villagers also blamed the police for bringing the bad name to the village. “Every time police had to show that they are acting strictly against drug abuse in Sidhwan Bet area, they would raid our village. This caused a lot of harassment to villagers who were neither addicts nor indulged in peddling,” said a villager requesting anonymity.
 
 Meanwhile, cops were upbeat about the development, terming it as a new beginning.
 
 “This is for the first time that villagers have come forward for drug-free village in such a way. We have assured them full support in fight against drug abuse in the village. Apart from keeping identity of villagers and informers a secret, we will also start de-addiction of addicts free of cost at two government run de-addiction centres in Jagraon and Sidhwan Bet,” said SSP Surjeet Singh.
 
 Village has a population of around 1200. Villager elders say that number of addicts and peddlers is around 45 of which majority are addicts. They added that 15 addicts from the village have already undergone de-addiction. 
 
 Two affidavits were submitted, one by 35 addicts and ex-peddlers and one by village Panchayat. All of them took pledge on Holy book in Gurdwara.
 
 
