MUMBAI:   chairman   won’t have a   (GEC) or any other super committee structure and will prefer a direct line of reporting with   companies.
 
  All decisions will be taken after consulting the Tata Sons board, said executives with knowledge of the matter.  , who was ousted as Tata Sons chairman in October, had set up the GEC in December 2012 as a brains trust to help execute his Vision 2020.
  
  The Group Executive Council, which had replaced the group corporate centre and group executive office, was disbanded after Mistry’s departure.
  
  Under the new dispensation, decisions will be taken as needed, said one of the persons cited above. Chandrasekaran took over as chairman of the holding company on February 21.
  
  
 
  “It is a dynamic situation for all, not only Tata companies but all corporates including global markets,” the person said. “Also, we need to give the new chairman sufficient time to take a judgement call. These are early days yet.”
  
  A Tata Sons spokesperson said: “Management structures or processes of Tata Sons are internal matters of the company. In any case, as you yourself are very well aware, each   reports to its respective board, and will continue to do so.”
  
  The GEC set up by Mistry sought to work closely with and partner the boards, CEOs and senior management of the various Tata companies. The group, which was run as a centralised decision-making body, did give rise to rumblings about interference and highhandedness, some people said.
  
  “Cyrus Mistry had a great working relationship with CEOs in the group,” said a person close to the former chairman. This person pointed out that none of the chief executives reported to the GEC and there was no question of any coercion or decisions being forced on any company.
  
  The GEC’s members had functional expertise that companies could draw on as required or support the chairman on group policies, said persons close to Mistry. The only GEC members currently working with the new management are Harish Bhat and Mukund Rajan, both of whom have expanded roles.
  
