KOLKATA: The Kolkata office of the   has found a film based on the theme of demonetisation too hot to touch and sent it to chairperson   for clearance. 

 While the regional officer has claimed Suvendu Ghosh’s ‘Shunyota’ was referred to the chairperson because there were differences among members of the examining committee, the director has accused the   of delaying certification since the film opposes PM Narendra Modi’s demonetisation drive. The film was scheduled to be released this Friday. 
 
 Ghosh had approached the CBFC for certification on March 16. The film’s plot revolves around a writer releasing a book of three stories. The first story is based on the life of a daily wage-earner in a Ranigunj colliery; the second is about a Gangtok-based couple who come to Kolkata for their child’s treatment, and the third is about a Kakdwip-based trawler repairer. The writer traces the catastrophic effect of the note ban on the lives of the three families. At the end of the film when the author is asked if he supports demonetisation, he replies in the negative. 
 
 “I checked online and found that mine is the first film on demonetisation,” Ghosh claimed.
 
 Insisting that he is not anti-BJP, the director said, “The CBFC has developed cold feet fearing that certifying a film on demonetisation might not go down well with the Union ministry. Since CM   had strongly opposed demonetisation, the Kolkata office doesn’t want to take the risk of certifying a film on the subject and is passing the buck.” 
 
 The director had earlier got separate censor certificates for the first two stories which were submitted as documentaries. One titled ‘Shunyota’ was 24 minutes and 41 seconds long and the other, ‘Shunyota 2’, was 23 minutes and 18 seconds long.
 
 “Signed by Nilanjana Roy and Ajoy Mahmia, ‘Shunyota’ had got the U/A certificate while ‘Shunyota 2’ had got the U certificate. That’s why I never thought there would be any issues when I added another story and tried to get certification for a 105-minute feature film. I fail to understand how the same board is now divided about what to do with my film,” Ghosh said.
 
 Ajoy Mahmia, the regional officer of CBFC Kolkata, insists that he is sticking to the rulebook by referring the film to the CBFC chairperson. “The earlier two submissions were documentaries. They were cleared individually. This feature film has improvisations,” he said. For documentary certification, one member and the regional officer examined it. But for the feature film certification, the film was viewed by four members. “We haven’t refused certification. The examining committee members saw the film on March 27 but there were differences of opinion among the members regarding certification. As per certification rules, the case is being referred to the CBFC chairman for his decision,” Mahmia said.
 
 Ghosh insists CBFC’s reaction smacks of a political agenda. “I wear no political colour, but I would definitely want to show my film to Mamata Banerjee. She is the chief minister of Bengal and has been very vocal about demonetisation. That’s why this film will touch her heart. Since Bengal has opposed demonetisation, a film on the subject is having to pay the price,” he said.
 
 
