New Delhi: After agreeing or giving an undertaking in court for divorce by mutual consent, if a spouse has second thoughts before the final stage, is it  ?

 Due to contradictory rulings, a   has expressed “grave doubts” on the practice of courts hauling up spouses for contempt if they renege from their earlier stand of divorce by mutual consent during the six-month interval period.
 
 In such cases there is a two stage process. Once a couple files a joint plea in court or gives a “settlement agreement” for mutual divorce, there is a waiting period of six months before the court allows their plea and grants divorce, if they still stick to their stand.
 
 Justice Manmohan found an increasing number of cases where one spouse dragged the other to court for committing contempt merely because of a change of mind during the six month gap. In a recent order, he referred a batch of such matters to a bigger bench for an authoritative ruling on these aspects, red-flagging the need for some guidelines.
 
 While referring the eight petitions, Justice Manmohan opined it “would not be proper to force the party who has developed second thoughts in accordance with the option given by the statute, to go ahead with the divorce at the pain of contempt.”
 
 Underlining the legal position, the judge pointed out when Hindu Marriage Act itself mandates “continuous consent till the second motion is allowed” then how can “action of a party exercising its statutory right to rethink/renege can be termed as mocking at the court or encouraging dishonesty or indulging in fraud/ misrepresentation.”
 
 The   was hearing eight contempt petitions filed by either the husband or the wife accusing the other of contempt for backtracking from their initial united stand. 
 
 But the single judge highlighted that “the period of waiting ranging from six to eighteen months is intended to give an opportunity to the parties to reflect/renege and if one of the parties does not wish to proceed ahead with the divorce during this period, then divorce cannot be granted.”
 
 The court also noted that if submission of spouses pressing for contempt is accepted, it would “amount to applying two contrary parameters in as much as though the parties would be asked to wait for the mandatory period of six months, yet at the same time neither of the parties would be allowed to rethink or go back on their undertaking during the waiting period.”
 
