Care for some ragi pakodi or jonna semiya? Will nuvvulundalu whet your appetite?

 Many of us may look away, simply because we are not used to such uber healthy food, but had you been to this food exhibition at Visakha Public Library yesterday, you probably would have been tempted to try each of the 30 brownish coloured dishes laid out — jonna and ragi cookies, ragi roti, ragi sankati, ragi undali, nuvvulundalu, jonna semiya, ragi pakodi, gantattu, ragi jantikulu, ganti kudumu and more made from healthy grains. On World Environmental Health Day on Tuesday, volunteers of a local organisation cooked up a healthy storm for the citizens of Vizag to make them aware that healthy food can be yummy too.
 
 The brainchild behind the initiative, Rajeswari, a volunteer of  , said, “Children these days are hooked to junk food and it causes obesity and many other lifestyle diseases. So I thought why not hold a food exhibition where children and adults will get to know that healthy food is delicious too. A few of us cooked 30 dishes that help in burning bad cholesterol and provide much-needed nutrients while satiating your cravings.”
  
 Vijay Kumar, president of the organisation, said, “On World Environmental Health Day, we are trying to raise awareness about the importance of healthy grains. These grains do not harm the environment and are actually good for both air and soil. They are healthy when grown without pesticides and are something we must turn to for a healthier lifestyle. In fact, these grains cost less than the starch-filled ones we are so fond of eating.”
  
 Another volunteer, Sirisha, said the initiative aims at making the ‘instant noodles’ generation realise how harmful preservative-laden ready-to-eat food or junk food can be in the long run. “These days, bones break easily; we have become so weak. We need to check the food we eat before we hand down lifestyle diseases to the future generation. Once upon a time, people were healthy because they ensured they had a balanced meal. Our aim is specifically targeted at kids and youngsters; they should start choosing chiru dhanyalu over noodles, country fried chicken and other fast ood. We have made four to five dishes from each grain; imagine how many more options can be rustled up,” she exclaimed.
  
 Agreed Rani Sharma, a special guest on the occasion: “They were able to prepare 30 different dishes, but there are innumerable recipes that can be made with healthy grains. We have gotten used to the concept of eating beautifully cleansed starch. The result is that people put on weight, have pot bellies and invariably lose out on nutrients from these alternate food grains. Opting for these grains is not reinventing the wheel. Such healthy food is already part of our culture; all we need to do is revive it. Incidentally, I had a dish made from korralu for breakfast; it was filling and healthy.”
  
 Rani and the volunteers also discussed publishing a recipe book in Telugu and English for whipping up dishes using brown grains.
 
