KANGPOKPI:   president   expressed confidence that the party would come to power in the coming polls and promised a   across  . 

 "The failure of the state in various spheres is the result of the 15-year regime of the Okram Ibobi Singh government," Shah said while addressing a BJP rally in Kangpokpi town on Tuesday.
 
 The saffron party has fielded former Congress MLA Nemcha Kipgen from the constituency that has 29,500 voters of which 12,597 are Nepalis and 12,587 are Kukis. The remaining voters belong to other communities including the Naga tribes. Nemcha got a BJP ticket after she quit Congress, as well as the state assembly, in January.
 
 Notably Kharga Tamang, who had been given a ticket by Congress, withdrew his candidature and decided to contest as an Independent from the same seat. An NPF nominee has also joined the fray, making Kangpokpi the site of a triangular contest.
 
 Taking a dig at Ibobi, Shah said 1.51 tons of rice given by the Centre had not reached beneficiaries and that there was lack of transparency in around 100 centrally sponsored schemes in the state. "We ask him (Ibobi) to account for all the development programmes sanctioned by the Centre," Shah said, accusing the government of promoting corruption while hiring people in various departments.
 
 "We take this menace very seriously and will grill all corrupt persons and punish them accordingly," he said.
 
 Praising the natural beauty of the state, he said tourism would be boosted to generate income and fight unemployment. The BJP chief also promised to transform Manipur into an IT hub to ensure talented youths of the state did not have to go beyond the state for jobs.
 
 Stating that hill areas of the state lacked development owing to less allocation of development funds, Shah said the hills would be developed on a par with the valley within five years.
 
 Tezpur MP RP Sharma and Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also campaigned here, urged residents of Kangpokpi to defeat Congress and bring BJP to power for all-round development in the state. 
 
 
