HYDERABAD: The quality of water in the Nagarjunasagar (NS) reservoir, the main source of drinking water for Hyderabad and thousands of villages in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, is gradually deteriorating with researchers recording an increase in organic and mineral contaminants in five years. Over a crore people are dependent on the reservoir for drinking water and irrigation. Doctors warn of an irreparable health impact in the long run.

 Mineral and organic contaminants in the reservoir's water is a result of unchecked use of pesticides and fertilisers by farmers on thousands of acres in its catchment area. Agricultural waste -particularly nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium (NPK) fertilizers -is harmful.Researchers say there has been a 10-15% increase in pollutants in the reservoir since 2010.
 
 Satellite images of the reservoir across the Krishna show how the level of contaminants changes depending on water inflows from upstream. While rainwater runoff during monsoon brings in large quantities of contaminants, this is diluted as water levels remain high during this period. The lowest contamination level can be seen in November and December. Pollution levels start rising from January and peak during AprilMay . In January , contamination starts at inlets and by May spreads to almost 90% of the reservoir when the total area of water spread is also reduced by half without rains.
 
 Though contaminants do not pose an immediate danger, they accumulate in tissues of aquatic beings. Those consuming fish from such reservoirs, for instance, will have severe health issues in the long run, warn researchers. Food grown using such water gets contaminated as well.
 
 “We have identified variation in spread of pollution over the years. Since NS reservoir is ahuge water body , we have used LANDSAT images to identify organic contaminants. LANDSAT is good for identifying a mixture of organic and mineral contaminants such as agricultural waste,“ said Dr  , head of the Laboratory for Spatial Information, International Institute of Information Technology . “We are now collecting samples from various points in the dam to corroborate ground data with satellite data,“ said Dr Rajan.
 
 “Organic and mineral contaminants, if consumed in large quantities, can cause lifethreatening conditions. Even small quantities are dangerous over a period of time. They can cause damage to nervous, gastrointestinal and renal (kidney) systems,“ said Dr  , consultant, medical gastroenterology & hepatology ,  .
 
 Senior gastroenterologist and liver transplant specialist Dr   said there has been an increase in pesticide use over the years.“Pesticides affect human beings. Every organ gets affected.Acute dangers like skin infections, eye irritation and damage, headaches, dizziness, nausea, fatigue, and systemic poisoning can be noticed over a certain period of time,“ he said. Heavy doses of pesticides in the water or food chain may even lead to autism, and aggravate problems like Parkinson's Disease. There is also a clear link between cancers and pesticides. Blood cancers like lymphoma, brain cancer, and breast cancers are triggered by orga nic and mineral contaminants.
 
 While contamination levels are a serious cause of concern, experts say officials might be unaware of the issue because the data of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) is got from the source -from where HMWSSB draws water for supply to people in Hyderabad. The water level here is high which means pollutants are diluted. Since the water is treated and supplied to the city , it may not cause any problem directly , but pollutants in the food chain may impact people's health.
 
