MUMBAI: The tenth season of the   has been a revelation of sorts where young Indian cricketers are concerned. Unlike previous seasons, the still-green generation has filled the vacuum created by the disabled and fatigued stars.

 As the cut-throat league progresses towards its business end, it can be safely said that the young turks have given a good account of themselves.
 
 If the likes of   (Delhi),   (Pune),   (Mumbai),   (Delhi) and   (Gujarat) have sizzled with the bat, seamers Sandeep Sharma (Punjab), Basil Thampi (Gujarat), Mohammad Siraj (Hyderabad), Aniket Choudhary (Bangalore) and Shardul Thakur (Pune) have impressed with the ball. Almost all of them have influenced the fortunes of their teams with their unexpected heroics.
 
 Pant, the dashing 'keeper-batsman has made legends like Sachin Tendulkar sit up and applaud his match-winning 43-ball 97 against Gujarat the other day. "One of the best Innings I have seen in the IPL & that includes all 10 seasons," tweeted Tendulkar of Pant's blazing knock which had nine sixes.
 
 If Maharashtra's little-known Tripathi and Kerala's resurrected Samson have dazzled with their stroke play and provided quick-fire starts to their teams, Sharma, Thampi, Siraj, Thakur and Choudhary have added zip to the attacks of their sides.
 
 In a tournament which has seen superstars like Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni and Rohit Sharma struggle with their games, the performances of these youngsters have got the experts excited. "Choudhary will provide the much-needed left-arm pace option, which has been missing since Zaheer Khan left the scene," commented former India team director Ravi Shastri on air recently.
 
 There, however, are some who are sceptical. "If these youngsters want to be selected, they must perform round-the-year in all the domestic tournaments, across all the formats," says a former selector, before making a case to buttress his point.
 
 "You look at how Rana struggled for Delhi this season. The thing is that they falter at the first-class level because there're under more pressure to perform there. In the IPL, all the pressure is on the established players, while the little-known, younger player is free to play his game. For example, in MI, all the pressure would be on a star batsman like Rohit, and not Rana," he explains.
 
 The logic may sound a bit warped, but former India captain Dilip Vengsarkar offers a simpler plan to test the mettle of these players.
 
 "At the international level, it's mostly about handling quicks and shortpitched deliveries. If you find someone's talented in the T20 format, he could be tried in the India 'A' team, where you can see the talent in the longer version of the game. We also have first-class cricket, where they need to perform," Vengsarkar tells TOI. "In the past, a few Indian batsmen were finished because they couldn't handle the short ball, and were all at sea," he adds.
 
 Like Vengsarkar, former India stumper Kiran More, too, lays emphasis on red-ball cricket.
 
 "They do need to score heavily in domestic cricket. Doing well in red-ball is extremely important for them to make it to the next level. You need to create that aura which you've created in the T20 format around you in other domestic tournaments. There will then be more challenges next season. As people will be aware of you next season, you've to work extra hard. If you get through there then there is no stopping you," says More. 
 
 
 
 
 (Runs in IPL-10: 281) With 20 sixes, Pant stands at No. 3 in the six-hitters' list after David Warner (24) and Robin Uthappa (21). His 57 against Royal Challengers Bangalore, coming after his father's death, had pundits praising his maturity.
 
 
 
 
 (Runs in IPL-10: 312) The 23-year-old dependable southpaw from Delhi displays a penchant for run chases and a gift for big hitting. Shepherded his side twice to triumphs against SRH (45 off 36 balls) and KXIP (62 off 34 balls, seven sixes) and made crucial interventions against KKR and Gujarat Lions
 
 
 
 (Runs in IPL-10: 353) Tripathi has had bowlers dancing to his tune. His match-winning 93 off 52 balls against KKR was a rare fusion of authentic cricketing shots and power hitting.
 
 
