BHATINDA: From an ice-selling roadside vendor to an influenctial liquor baron in Abohar, murder accused Shiv Lal Doda enjoys considerable clout in the border district of Fazilka. Hoping that this clout would turn into an electoral win, Doda jumped into the poll fray on Friday by filing his nomination as an independent candidate from  . 

 This will be the second time that the 48-year-old Doda will be contesting the assembly elections. In 2012, he had secured more than 45,000 votes, but lost to Congress’s Sunil Jakhar by 9,788 votes. Yet again, Doda will be taking on Jakhar. 
 
 Doda is behind bars at present in connection with the murder of Dalit youth Bhim Tank at his farmhouse in   near   in December 2015. On January 11 this year, a court had accepted his plea for being released from prison for a day, so that he could file his nomination papers. “In 1985, when Doda was 19, he attacked a person with an ice pick. He was let off then. Then he moved to Gurugram, and started allegedly selling illicit liquor. On January 6, 1990, he was booked in a case under the Excise Act at Gurgaon. He was sentenced to two years in jail on January 10, 1992,” said Amrit Lal, a resident of Abohar.
 
 In mid-1990s, Doda returned to Abohar as a multi-millionaire with a lot at stake in the liquor business. Though Doda’s name did the rounds in a couple of criminal acts in Abohar, including a double murder, he was not named in any of the FIRs. By then, people started fearing from him. “A liquor contractor, Roop Lal, was attacked in 1999 and then Satpal Setia and his wife were killed in November 2002. People spoke about Doda to be behind the crimes, but his name never figured in any FIR,” said another Abohar resident, Kewal Krishan.
 
 Abohar municipal council vice-president   added that Doda got involved in social activities and started the Seth Chhabil Dass Doda Charitable Trust in his father’s name in the 2000s. “He purchased 12 sewage-cleaning machines and 35 water tankers for Navi Abadi area of Abohar. He came forward in help out people financially, performed marriages of poor girls, arranged medical camps and employed young boys in his thriving liquor business. He also gave financial aid to social and religious organizations,” Ahuja said. 
 
 Despite being feared for his influence in the area, there are many in Abohar call Doda innocent and allege that he was falsely implicated in the Tank murder case at the behest of a local politician. Bhim Tank Qatal Virodhi action committee convener Gopi Chand Sandhar, however, disagreed. “Doda is behind bars for killing Bhim. Nobody dared to name him, but we will not sit back till he is punished. We will breathe easy only when Doda is convicted of the murder.”
 
 Speaking on Doda as his opponent, Jakhar said, “It does not make any difference who is contesting against me. People will decide who is their real sympathiser and true representative.”
 
