NAGPUR: City police have resorted to opening Maharashtra’s first comprehensive in-service training hub ‘Nagpur centre of police service excellence’ or N-Cops excellence at Chhaoni, Sadar for upgrading the formal grooming the personnel in the respective institutions before joining the duty after selection so as to suit the requirements of the present scenario. The trainings, brain child of city police chief K  , have been designed to ensure better policing catering to the need of the citizens, especially the victims. 

 Venkatesh, who was polices’ Addl DG for training before joining as CP in city, wanted to usher a change in the basic approach of policing and attitude towards citizens which is strongly backed by State chief minister  . On the occasion of inauguration of city polices’ another innovative project of addressing women’s grievances ‘Bharosa Cell’ earlier this year, Fadnavis had stated that N-Cops excellence centre for training would be shortly opened in the city for bettering the policing and making it more citizen friendly which was earlier published in TOI. Backed by the government, city is to now become first in the state to commence such a training centre for the in-house employees of the police department from Tuesday. 
 
 On Monday, city police have invited the heads of various institutions in the city for a discussion on the applied theory, skills of imparting training, it’s implementations in day-to-day work, the ability of the trainers to introduce various comparative benchmarks and so on. In the later part of the day, editors and senior journalists have been invited to throw lights on present day aspects of criminal justice system comprising policing, judiciary, corrective homes and centres and legal services dealing with these wings. The role of media too would be debated. 
 
 Venkatesh, after taking charge, wanted to introduce the concept of transformation to improve the basic policing. Among the changes the senior IPS officer, belonging to 1988 batch, wanted to introduce included improvement of front office at police stations where victims steps into to register complaints, extensive use of technology like CCTNS for various works and also modification of manner in which police interacted and dealt with the different grievances of the citizens. After having taken up five police stations for front office improvement in different parts of city, Venkatesh now transformed a part of the office of State DGP during winter assembly session to open the centre. 
 
 Venkatesh, who opted to call this centre as a ‘transformative laboratory of   police, which is also tag line of the institution, said that the aspect of modifying the attitude of the personnel was the main objective behind opening of the centre. “The duration of the courses would vary between 30 minutes to even three days. The trainings dealing with traffic may extend up to even a week’s time. We would also allow personnel from other districts to enrol in the centre for whom the accommodation shall be provided,” he said. 
 
