JAIPUR: After a gap of 14 years, Rajasthan witnessed a decline in the number of  . The total number of accidents and people injured in them have come down significantly.

 Once among the leading states in the country for road accidents and deaths, the new data has come as a shot in the arm for the transport and  .
 
 In 2016, total accidents recorded in the state have fallen to 23,066 from 24,072 in 2015, or 1,006 fewer than the year before.
 
 People killed in these accidents too have come down from previous years. Total fatalities for the year stood at 10,465, which is 45 less than 2015 (10,510 deaths). Similarly, there has been a substantial drop in the number of people injured. From 26,153 the year before, it has fallen to 24,103 in 2016, registering a decrease of over 2,000 injured.
 
  attributed these low numbers to a slew of steps taken by the government to curb accidents.
 
 “We were alarmed with the figures of accidents and fatalities. Our government made road safety a priority and launched awareness campaigns, sensitized truck drivers and people at panchayat level,” said Khan.
 
 The minister added that school children were motivated and made part of the whole campaign. “We also introduced a chapter on road safety in the curriculum. It made a huge impact,” added Khan.
 
 To bring accidents down further, Khan has announced another drive, starting January 30 from Jaipur. For the drive, the transport department will change its strategy and consider each district as a unit instead of the whole state.
 
 “We will organize a day-long drive in a gap of 15 days, involving the director general of police and additional chief secretary, among others. The first session will be held at Jaipur, followed by Kotputali on February 15,” added the minister.
 
 The government is now aiming to improve its record by keeping accidents below 3,000 and minimizing deaths. “The decline in the number of accidents itself is a big achievement for the state. But we are still on the task and will bring it down further by encouraging people to follow   and enforcing law strictly,” said B L Soni, ADG (traffic).
 
