

 Dominic D’souzas’ was the first case on HIV to come to the  . It was a very tough fight because the stigma surrounding HIV was all pervasive. Moreover, most people did not understand the nature of HIV. Practically, everybody assumed that one could get HIV by mere association with a person living with HIV (PLHIV). If I recall, the arguments took about three days, about two days on my part and nearly three quarters of a day on the part of the government. The judges had to be made to understand not only the legalities, but the nature of HIV as it was then understood.
 
 The case revolved around the Goa Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1985, which permitted the government to mandatorily, without consent, test a person suspected of HIV and on being so found, an individuals’ confidentiality would be breached in addition to possible isolation and incarceration. This is what I called the isolationist law. 
 
 We actually lost the case because the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court upheld the amendment except for a partial ‘reading down’, in that the Court allowed the person who was being tested to show by other tests that the person was indeed not  . This had a very deleterious effect initially as we thought the isolationist law would take root in India. 
 
 However, Dominic D’souza and I, and other friends and comrades were able to resist the replication of the isolationist law of the Goa model in other parts of the country, which was attempted by the central government. 
 
 In that we were able to create a certain momentum which inured to the benefit of the PLHIV movement. In fact, Dominic D’souza became the first PLHIV activist not only in India, but in the region.
 
 
 
 
 When I met Dominic in his last days in Breach Candy hospital, Mumbai, he virtually, in his usual diplomatic way, extracted a promise from me that I shall work for   as a lawyer.
 
  This ‘tryst with Dominic’ became an obsession with me from 1992-1997, which resulted in the very famous judgement of the Bombay High Court, Mx v. ZY. This landmark judgement, delivered by Justice Tipnis, for the first time provided for the recruitment of PLHIVs in the state sector. Justice Tipnis held that if the person was otherwise qualified (such as having a diploma, degree, etc), was functionally fit and he did not pose a significant risk of transmission to others in the environment, then HIV could not be the basis of any discrimination from him being recruited in the public sector.
 
 
 
 
 The success in the MX v. ZY in 1997 put Lawyers Collective’s HIV work on the map such that a lot of gay people started coming to our office. On looking at the situation of gay men the conclusion was inevitable that Sextion 377 of the IPC was a cause of a lot of gay men’s woes in terms of law. 
 
 This persuaded us to mount a challenge to 377, which was ultimately done in the Delhi high court successfully in 2011, but unfortunately we faced defeat in the Supreme Court, in 2013. The curative petition is still pending in the Supreme Court.
 
 
  
 
 Indeed, Dominic D’souza’s case was the first of many, which laid the roadmap of the now HIV Act. The HIV Act contains what we argued in Dominic D’souza’s case in Goa, such as, no testing without informed consent (Section 5), no discrimination or isolation (Section 3) and no breach of confidentiality (Section 8).
 
 
 
 India has come a long way in treating PLHIV. However, there is a long way to go. We have to remember that India is the pharmacy of the developing and, partly, of the developed world. From 2000 onwards HIV ART triple combination therapy was supplied by India generic companies around the world, though this therapy ART was available from 1996 onwards in the West.
 
  However, we were able to supply that in India from the government sector only in 2004, despite the fact that it was Indian generic companies who were supplying ART to the rest of the developing world. Earlier, one had to reach the level of CD4 count of 350 to be on first line ART, it was then changed to 500 and now, the moment you are tested you are to be treated with ART. 
 
 India, has now taken a policy decision to test and treat as soon as the person is detected to be HIV positive, which was recently announced by Union minister of health  . Though this has been announced, India is still far away from the goal, we don’t even comply with the CD4 500 regime till now. 
 
 Moreover, the HIV Act, which has been recently passed in a cause for concern because under Section 14 of the HIV Act, a caveat is introduced by providing that treatment services would be provided ‘as far as possible’. It appears to many, including the PLHIV community, that ‘as far as possible’ is an escape route for the government to evade its obligations to the community. 
 
 Though it’s a concern we still have to wait and watch whether it actually becomes a problem in the future.
 
