Nagpur: The Nagpur University’s blunders are not just limited to exams and results. Its website carries mostly outdated content in the contact list. The all important exam and enquiry section’s number given on the website is wrong. Strangely enough, DK Agrawal is still shown Board of College and University Development director even though the post was abolished soon after implementation of the new Universities Act. The direct line number to the vice-chancellor and registrar are missing. The website also has a helpline list which has names and mobile numbers of police officers who have either long transferred or retired. Besides Nagpur, colleges in Wardha, Gondia and Bhandara too are affiliated to the NU, but students from these places have to many times come all the way to the city to inquire about their work. On Wednesday, when TOI tried to call the exam and inquiry section on the given number, a recorded message played stating it is a wrong number. The blunder came to fore when many students said they had to visit the exam section personally for even small inquiries when this could have been done on the phone.  Since the last week, TOI has been consistently reporting how MSc students from mathematics, chemistry and electronics branch were left in the lurch after finding errors in their marklists. But, the problems was not limited to only science faculty as arts and commerce too are facing a similar issues. “My marklist bears an earlier date while the result was declared later. I needed to fill revaluation form for one of my papers. The college said it can’t accept the form now since the deadline for revaluation was over. When I tried calling on the number on the NU website, it didn’t connect,” a BCA student said. When the issue was pointed out to pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole, who handles the exam section, as usual he referred the query to NU information scientist Veena Prakashe. She initially denied that the NU website had the wrong number for exam and inquiry section. But when this correspondent read out the number, she said she ‘couldn’t keep track of everything on the website.’ On police helpline, she blamed the police department for not sending an updated list. “When the police will send an updated contact list, we will upload it,” she said. She also said that the replacements are underway while the link to BCUD was already removed. GOOF-UPS GALORE Wrong numbers Exam and enquiry | 0712-6580304 Professional S Exam | 0712-2500547 Wrong posts BCUD director DK Agrawal Missing numbers Vice-Chancellor, Registrar