KOLKATA: With the ever-increasing burden of  , the   is planning to send an “advisory” to the state governments, suggesting them measures to decrease the weight from the students’ shoulders. According to sources, the Centre is likely to send an   in this regard. 

 “These recommendations will be suggestions to the state governments and are not binding. However, several states have already taken adequate measures to lessen the weight from the schools bags,” a source said.
 
 On Tuesday, Anil Swarup, secretary of school education and literacy department, told TOI: “There are some proposals which are still being discussed and the question of sending an advisory will come much later.”
 
 Among the proposals which are under consideration of the MHRD, there is one to break up the one-year academic session into semesters, much on the lines of Tamil Nadu. “This formula reduces the burden by half. The students are then exempted from carrying textbooks which are to be taught in the latter part of the academic year,” added a source. 
 
 “Students can be taught through e-books and if necessary, through a projector in classroom. This can be a solution because then the children don’t require to carry books,” said principal of Rammohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas.
 
 He added that however, it is not a very feasible idea for schools in the villages to introduce e-book learning. “The MHRD should take adequate measures and upgrade facilities so that there is at least one smart classroom or arrangements can be made to hire projectors in such schools,” Biswas pointed out.
 
 “Among other suggestions, we are likely to recommend no student should be penalized for forgetting to carry textbooks. Also, keeping books in the school itself could be another solution to reduce the weight of schoolbags,” said an official.
 
 “We have redesigned the school timetable so that minimum books are carried by students. Practice copies of primary students are mostly kept in the school. Students don’t carry extra pair of sportswear as they wear it to schools,” said Mukta Nain, principal of Birla High for Boys.
 
 State education minister Partha Chatterjee said though the Bengal government will not fix any weight limit of schoolbags, some plans are being chalked out to reduce the burden on students.
 
 
