BHOPAL:   Mehmood Akhtar’s statement to interrogators in Delhi that many people from Bhopal had handed over   to him, has left intelligence officials in in Madhya Pradesh worried. 

 Now efforts are on to identify Akthar’s ‘agents’ in the state capital, said sources in the  . There are inputs that Akhtar had visited Bhopal thrice in the last few years. 
 
 The last alleged Pak spy on records of Bhopal police was – Abdul Shami, who was arrested from Gandhi Nagar area of city in March 2004. An army officer posted in Sagar who was allegedly in touch with Shami and was passing on sensitive information was court marshalled after Shami’s arrest. 
 
 “Akhtar was reporting to Syed Farooq Habib, chief of intelligence wing at the Pakistan High Commission in Delhi and sharing information and sensitive documents procured from Indian agents. Many people from Bhopal, Hyderabad and Mewat have handed over sensitive documents to him” - claims the chargesheet filed by Delhi crime branch on Saturday.
 
 Akhtar’s link in Madhya Pradesh was Farhat Khan, the personal assistant to Vidisha-based   MP Chaudhary Munawwar Salim. Khan was also arrested after Akhtar’s statement in October 2016.
 
 "Farhat Khan had been in touch with   since 1996. My predecessor handed over his details and contacts to me when he was returning to Pakistan," Akhtar’s statement said. Delhi crime branch has chargesheeted four people allegedly linked to Pakistani espionage ring, including Farhat Khan.   has not been charged due to diplomatic immunity. Others are Maulana Ramzan Khan and Shubhash Jangir from Nagaur, Rajasthan and Soheb Hussain from Jodhpur.
 
 “We have come to know from the Delhi crime branch that Akhtar had people in Bhopal, they are being looked for. Farhat Khan will be questioned for more details if required,” said an intelligence officer.
 
 Farhat became the PA of an MP in 1986 and from then has been associated with offices of four different MPs. Farhat’s main role was to steal documents related to the Parliament and sell it to the ISI, its alleged.
 
 Mehmood Akhtar and Farhat Khan had visited Bhopal for a wedding ceremony a few years ago, said sources. 
 
 Akhtar is said to have admitted during interrogation that he was a head constable in Pakistan army's 40 Baloch regiment and later inducted into ISI on deputation, trained and sent to India for espionage activities.
 
