MOHALI: District Consumer Disputes Redressal  , Mohali has directed  ,   Tricity Mohali Metro Towers, to pay a   of Rs 1.25 lakh to   for damaging the vehicle in their workshop.

 According to his complaint, Gill, a resident of Sector 78, Mohali, had purchased a new vehicle on February 23, 2015 from authorized dealer, Padam Motors, Renault Tricity Mohali Metro Towers, Sector 58,   for a consideration price of Rs 8.15 lakh.
 
 After the purchase of the vehicle, the complainant took it for its first service to the dealer’s workshop. At the time of emptying the car before servicing, Gill found an invoice dated December 15, 2014 issued in the name of Gurjant Singh in the boot space of the car. The document bore the signature of the branch head and it was specifically mentioned in it that the car was sent to the said agency in 2014 for colouring of bonnet, front bumper, front side of front door and left side of the car. In the remarks column for any problem, it was clearly mentioned that the problem was found at destination branch and not reported by starting branch.
 
 Gill alleged that perusal of the transfer note clearly revealed that the vehicle sold to him was an accidental vehicle, the bonnet, front door and left side of which was repainted and front bumper was repaired before he purchased it. He immediately approached Padam Motors to resolve the issue but in vain. He apprehended that even the engine of the vehicle was damaged in an accident and therefore, requested for a replacement.
 
 Padam Motors filed the reply that complainant has not come to court with clean hand. According to them, the total cost of the 2015 vehicle on February 16, 2015 was Rs 9.52 lakh but Gill preferred to buy the 2014 model vehicle available on special discount for Rs 8.15 lakh. They stated, the said price included the insurance amount, logistic charges and essential pack cost. Gill, at the time of delivery of vehicle, had satisfied himself regarding its physical condition and even signed a declaration to that effect.
 
 Court heard the arguments of both sides and observed, “In the absence of any expert evidence to that effect, it cannot be said that the engine was damaged. The complainant could prove his complaint easily by leading evidence of expert in the concerned field but he did not do so. Mere apprehension, however strong, cannot take the place of proof.”
 
 Court added that, complainant succeeded only in proving that the vehicle was taken to workshop for repair of bonnet, front bumper and left side of front door and, therefore, he deserves to be compensated only on that account. The court directed Padam Motors to pay compensation of Rs 1.25 lakh compensation for damaging the vehicle in the workshop.
 
 The invoice revealed that the car was sent to an agency to repaint the bonnet, front door and left side of the car and repair the front bumper before being sold to the complainant.
 
