KOLKATA: A day after three Jadavpur residents were arrested for allegedly threatening cricketer   and assaulting his caretaker after an argument over parking, his family members and neighbours are still in shock. They can’t believe that a person as amicable as Shami has fallen victim to road rage, that too in his own locality.

 “When we reached home on Saturday, three cars were already parked in front of our house. Yet, we managed to leave space for other vehicles to pass. But this man picked up an argument. It seemed to have been settled down but they just barged into our house minutes later. They kept kicking on our door for 10 minutes. I am still living in fear and shock. Ever since we came here, we have faced one problem or the other. Though nothing major has happened so far, we do feel insecure,” said Hasin Jahan, Shami’s wife. 
 
 Many see Saturday’s incident as an assault on the ‘para culture’ that the neighbourhood takes pride on. “Imagine people attacking their own neighbours on the flimsiest of grounds. This is the saddest part of the entire incident. The attack comes after Md Shami spent hours chatting to the same group near Stylist Tailors even after attaining stardom,” rued Amiya Kumar Bagchi, a resident of Katju Nagar.
 
 Some of his other neighbours recalled how bikers have become a menace at night. “Unruly bikers have turned the Golf Green connector into a horror stretch. This has become a way of life there. Now, even bylanes in Bikramgarh, Katju Nagar, Poddar Nagar and Bapuji Nagar are facing the same problem. If a famous cricketer like Md Shami is not spared, imagine the plight of common people here,” shuddered  , one of Shami’s immediate neighbours at Katju Nagar.
 
 The fear was palpable when TOI visited the area on Tuesday. Shami’s caretaker Dhurba Mondal even refused to meet TOI initially, claiming he was still in trauma. “I still cannot understand why they attacked me. It was around 11pm and Sir (Shami) had returned with his wife in his car (a red BMW X1). He had left enough space for other vehicles to pass on Prince Ghulam Hussain Shah Road. A bike and even an auto passed through but this young man, who was later identified as Shiva Pramanik, started abusing Sir unprovoked. He even got down and banged on the bonnet of the car. Initially, Sir did not react. I protested but he continued to hurl expletives. Sir stepped out a few minutes later and an argument followed. Shiva left after some time, claiming he would be back soon,” recalled Mondol.
 
 Shiva was back in less than 20 minutes. He was accompanied by his employer   and Swarup’s elder brother Jayanta. “They barged inside, held me by the collar and assaulted me. They then climbed upstairs and started kicking on the door. They spent a good 10-15 minutes upstairs. By then, they came to know that the cops had been called,” claimed Mondal.
 
 Mondal now wants his wife to return to the Sunderbans. “Sir has spoken to us at length even on Tuesday morning. But I lack the confidence to ask my wife to stay back,” he said.
 
 
