Madurai: ‘Happy Street’, an initiative of the Madurai Corporation, held for the second time on Sunday got an overwhelming response as people from various walks of life thronged Kamarajar Salai between Munichalai junction to East Veli junction and took part in the various activities arranged for the occasion.

 The otherwise busy stretch of road was closed for vehicular movement for the event and required traffic diversions made so that motorists were not affected. 
 
 It is laudable that the civic body is shaping the initiative in such a way that residents are being sensitised on key issues that the city is facing even while they are given a free space to enjoy themselves. The event is scheduled to be conducted on the first Sunday of every month. However, this month it was moved to the second Sunday due to the Chithirai festival, which concluded on Saturday.
 
 The event began at 6.30am and went on till 10am. Apart from the locals, people from many parts of the city visited ‘Happy Street.’ Residents, especially children, enjoyed the various activities, including skipping, yoga, skating, football, cricket, badminton, cycling, dancing and singing. Madurai-based band ‘After 6’ and a team of disc jockeys enthralled the crowd with their pulsating music. Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao too enthusiastically took part in the activities and also addressed the gathering.
 
 Mary Anitha, a resident of Santhaipettai, said that her entire family was elated to join the celebrations at Kamarajar Salai. “It was a different experience to see the road empty and have a feeling that it belongs to us, at least for some time. The sight of people dancing, playing and laughing their heart made us more energetic,” she said. 
 
 The corporation had also set up various stalls to create awareness on waste segregation, dengue, water conservation, tree plantation, cleanliness and millet-based foods. A large number of people curiously visited the stalls. A mobile blood bank was also stationed. Many willing people donated blood, while several others enrolled their names to donate later. 
 
 There was a minor hitch though before the start of the event due to the last minute opposition from Teppakulam police to conduct it. As the corporation officials had already acquired permission to stage ‘Happy Street’, this created a furore. The hurdles were removed after higher police officers were contacted. However, Madurai corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri downplayed it by saying that they were only “having a discussion over how to regulate the traffic.”
 
 
