How many times have you been put off by the gruff 'hello' from the cab driver coming to pick you up? Or been irritated by his inattention to your comforts in, say , not turning up the AC a notch? And shown your exasperation when you have suggested a shorter or familiar route but failed to shake his loyalty to the GPS?

 Let's change the perspective now. Kulwant Singh, who drives a cab and is registered with taxi aggregator Uber, found himself confronting angry residents of Delhi's Laxmi Nagar after squeezing his car into the narrowest of lanes. He hadn't wished to do so but the passenger who had booked the ride had insisted on being dropped right at the doorstep. “The rider got off. But after that, the whole neighbourhood crowded around my car, cursing me for blocking the lane. I begged for mercy and somehow managed a safe escape,“ Singh said, to sympathetic nods of the head.
 
 Tales of passenger inconvenience and troubles have been told many a time, and those have been instrumental in improving taxi-aggregator services, but the drivers' side of the story is the untold one. The one that goes back home with him, and stays as he steps out for work the next day , perhaps leading to that gruff `hello' you heard. Or his insistence on sticking to the GPS even though you may know better.
 
 The passenger before you, though, may not have. Hear it from Nand Kishor, a driver from UP who registered with Uber early this year.“I asked her which route to take, and she asked me to follow  ,“ he told fellow drivers at  , a forum to hear concerns of the aggregator's driver partners that convened last Friday in Gurgaon. “A few minutes later, she accused me of taking a longer route.“ Switching to a more general description of his passengers, he added, “Somehow, they fail to understand the app throws up the most optimized routes.“
 
 Shivdut Kumar also reported trouble with a woman passenger who had booked a ride from Shahdara.Knowing the pick-up was at an address in a congested lane, Kumar said he requested the women to walk to the main road, which was nearly 250 metres from her house. But she refused, so Kumar navigated across narrow lanes to reach the address. It took him 25 minutes. Once he got there, she made him wait. “Just completing the pickup, took me more than 45 minutes,“ said Kumar.
 
 In case you happened to have been his next passenger, could you blame him for being boorish, or not being attentive to the AC? Or forget ting to roll up the windows?
 Uber Samaaj was launched after growing frustration and anger among drivers who faced harassment at the hands of passengers. And sharing the experiences has helped. The most common peeve is the insistence of passengers to be picked up from their doorstep. “If they had their wish, they would want to be picked up from their bedrooms,“ several drivers joked at the gathering.
 
 Shared rides are often trouble, too. Mahesh Kumar, a driver from Bulandshahr, had this to say: “I was on pool duty and this man in my cab gets off without paying, saying his ride was already paid for, and walks away .When I stopped the ride after picking the next customer, his bill came to Rs 64.“ Arguments also often break out over airport charges that passengers are unaware of, said the drivers.
 
 Prabhjeet Singh, Uber's GM (North India) said the company had realised that along with driver education, rider education was equally necessary . And many of the Uber Samaaj suggestions have led to focused rider education campaigns.
 
 And while the Samaaj does its job, what this shows clearly is that in a ratings-driven atmosphere, both the passenger and driver perhaps need to give each a longer rope. And yes, earn their stars.
 
