LUCKNOW: For Namrata, Durga Puja is not just about performing puja, pandal hopping and savouring sumptuous dishes. Her family has planned what they have been doing for the past three generations — a Bangla movie session on the last day of the festival. This year, the college-goer is excited about watching her favourite hero Soham Chakroborty’s movie ‘Bajimat’.

 Talking to TOI, Namrata said, “It’s almost a ritual now to watch movies during Durga Puja with my cousins. Every year, on the last day we watch Bangla movies back to back. Actually, this is the only time of the year when we watch   movies.”
 
 Shatabdi Dhole, a homemaker, who also screens Bangla movies at her house, said, “The idea is to enjoy as much as one can during Durga Puja and watching movies and hearing music is the best way. As no theatre shows Bengali movies nowadays, we organise a movie session at our place for our extended family and friends. This year we have planned to watch Shibaji-starrer ‘Champ’, ‘Yeti Obhijaan, ‘Posto’ and ‘Amar Aponjon’.”
 
 Reading Bangla patrikas (magazines), particularly annual issues, is yet another important and favoured activity for the Bengalis in the city.
 
 Every year, Lipika Das visits her favourite bookstores ahead of the festival to buy bundles of Bangla patrikas. “Just like worshipping Goddess Durga, reading patrikas is also a tradition being followed from several generations. People love to read magazines like Ananda Bazar, Desh, Anandomela, Sananda, Nobokallol, etc as they have the latest trends regarding food, fashion and entertainment world,” explained Das, a librarian at Bengali Club and resident of Lucknow for the past 20 years.
 
 “Many magazines come out with the much-awaited annual issues. Sitting here we get to know what’s popular among Bengalis worldwide this year,” Das added.
 
 Another homemaker, Jyotika Chakraborty, said for her reading patrikas is more than just getting updated on trends and news. “Every year the goddess arrives on a different vahan (mode of transportation) and leaves on another. This year she’s descending from heaven by a boat and leaving on a horse. I like reading which sun sign will have what impact depending on the vahan for that respective year,” she said.
 
 Many people also use these magazines to get their children acquainted with the Bangla language. A variety of magazines like Shuktara, Sandesh, Chandamama, etc are especially available for children.
 
 Shubhodeep Basu, a businessman, said his 12-year-old son’s knowledge about Bengali culture and literature is quite poor. Durga Puja is the best time to familiarise him with their culture through Bengali comic books.
 
