MUMBAI: In the second case this year, a pregnant woman with a   moved the   on Thursday to seek permission to undergo an abortion beyond the 20-week limit. She is in her 23rd week of pregnancy.

 In January, a Dombivli woman had won SC’s nod to medically terminate her foetus that had severe brain anomaly.
 
 Indian laws allow abortion till 20 weeks of pregnancy, but around a dozen cases have, in the recent past, moved the SC seeking permission to abort beyond this deadline. The Centre had prepared a draft bill allowing abortion up to 24 weeks, but there has been not development thereafter.
 
 In the latest case, the 21-year-old woman, identified as Mrs X in the writ petition filed on Thursday, and her gynaceologist, Dr Nikhil Datar from Goregaon pleaded for the right to terminate beyond the deadline as the foetus doesn’t have kidneys and would be unviable with life. 
 
 The matter is likely to be taken up for hearing on Friday. 
 
 Her lawyer Sneha Mukherji from the Human Rights Law Network told TOI, “The petitioner found out in the 21st week of her pregnancy that the foetus doesn’t have kidneys. She had to undergo two scans before this could established.” Mukherji said the foetus has multiple anamolies, with the main one being the absence of kidneys. Dr Datar said that absence of kidneys is usually picked up around the 17th week of pregnancy. “But the woman’s ultrasound scan got delayed. The couple also needs time to think it through before moving the SC seeking permission to medically terminate the foetus,” he added. 
 
 In the second week of January, a Dombivli woman, who was 23 weeks into her pregnancy, moved SC as she wanted to abort her foetus which had anencephaly, a serious defect in which parts of the brain or skull are not adequately development. The court had asked a medical board from KEM Hospital to give an opinion. The woman underwent abortion at the same hospital a week later on SC directions. Experts had then asked SC to draw up guidelines for women in similar condition so that they can get help at local level, instead of having to move court every time. 
 
 
