BENGALURU: Not many know about the nine hill forts or Nava durgas on the out skirts of the bus tling Bengaluru.Located within 100km of the state capital, the hill forts house the remnants of  's rich and diverse history.

 From one of Asia's largest monoliths to ruins of a stone cot and umbrella used by the erstwhile kings to rest during summers, to the historical powder magazines, these Navadurgas have managed to keep their secrets for a long time.
 
 While Savandurga in Ramanagara, Nandidurga ( ) in Chikkaballapur and Devarayanadurga in Tumakuru are popular among the masses, Hutridurga, Huliyurdurga and Channarayanadurga (all three in Tumakuru), Kabbaladurga in Kanakapura, Makalidurga in Doddaballapur and Byaravadurga in   are frequented only by people living in the sur rounding vil lages or avid trekkers who want to expe rience the thrill of tak ing an un charted path. Most of the historical monuments on these hillocks are in a shambles and if urgent steps are not taken to conserve them, they will be lost forever.
 
 Heritage experts and historians say that identifying these hillocks, conserving the monuments and developing them as tourism circuits will go a long way in protecting the legacy of these fort hills.
 
 “Take Hutridurga, from where James Bristow, a Bengal artilleryman and a captive of  , escaped by carving out a hole through the fort. The fort was called   by the Britishers. Today the fort is in a mess and has no proper access.Although the state government had sanctioned Rs 1.5 crore for providing basic amenities there, nothing has happened on g round,“ said a colle ge official-tur ned-historian, Prashanth Marur.
 
 Prashanth, credited with “discovering“ the Tomb of Kempegowda near Kempapura, Magadi, said he, along with some youths, had to fight a tough battle to stop illegal quarrying near the hillock a few years ago.
 
 Heritage enthusiast Swaminathan Natarajan said that not many were aware of the Navadurgas around Bengaluru. “It reflects on how strategically Bengaluru was located in the ancient and medieval times, and even during the beginning of the British rule which saw the siege of Nandidurga ( ).Developing these heritage sites as tourist hubs will give a different dimension to Bengaluru's heritage. I believe the government is looking into improving the condition of these monuments and the existing infrastructure in the region.“
 
