HYDERABAD: Most women (84%) prefer counselling to filing   mainly due to  , a new study has revealed.

 The report on implementation of Protection of Women from   Act (PWDVA) – 2005 and functioning of One Stop Crisis Centres (OSCC) revealed how court cases stretch way beyond the 60-day deadline to conclude them.   (BWC) conducted the study commissioned by   and Dutch organisation Karl Kubel Stiftung.
 
 Judges and advocates interviewed during the survey said that on an average it took 2-4 years for 50% cases, 4-6 years (38%), 7-12 years (25%) and 5-7 years (13%). Data from Telangana between 2006 and 2015 (under PWDVA) reveals that out of 13,111 registered cases, 6,579 cases are yet to begin..
 
 The study also found that 70% service providers said that though they were aware of their appointment by women and child welfare department as nodal agencies, they could not function as they had not yet received the order copy.
 
 K Satyavati of BWC said, “We found that 90% of respondents (women who filed cases or received counselling) replied they were not aware of these institutions, and hence, they were made to run from one institution to another for information and support.”
 
 About 65% of the women replied that they were not given any assistance in times of crisis either from police or from OSCC, while expressing apprehension about approaching police stations and stigma attached with such cases.
 
 WOMEN IN THE DARK ABOUT ACT
 
 Hyderabad: About 85% of women in the state do not know anything about the DV Act. While 21% of women were referred to One Stop Crisis Centres (OSCC) through police, 20% came on their own and 10% through NGOs working in their area. 
 
 “Most women wanted privacy for the family as cases have bigger impact on children. As a result, women said that they needed suggestions to change attitudes of their husbands and would rather take a counseller’s help instead of approaching courts, which have long procedures,” BWC’s K Satyavati said.
 
 The women also expressed that they did not want to lose their identity at any cost and were slowly gaining confidence to rebuild their lives with the available opportunities.
 
 Filing case at OSCC was also a time-consuming task. But 15% of survivors were ready to file cases or have already filed them and were attending courts for trials.
 
