NEW DELHI: In what appears to be a first, a   storm blowed over two days in the   with a Union minister intervening in   and a popular website contributor taking a temporary break from social media. It began with Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien’s 38 minute speech in the   on Thursday. At the fag end of his speech he named two Twitter users, accusing them of issuing threats online against those who do not agree with the incumbent government.

 He accused the government of encouraging such users. On Friday, Union minister for textiles   asked for the names mentioned by O’Brien to be expunged from the records, following which the RS chair passed an order to the effect. Over the din in the house, Irani could be heard saying that the persons O’Brien mentioned were private citizens with no recourse to counter his claims in Parliament. Meanwhile, by Friday afternoon, one of the two persons mentioned by O’Brien posted a Twitter update saying he was going to take a short break from social media in the light of all that had happened.
 
 At the time of writing and when the comments were made by O’Brien on Thursday the user’s account was active on Twitter, and not suspended. Several others on Twitter who actively comment on politics came out in his defence.
 
 O’Brien’s comment on Thursday came towards the end of a long speech in which he criticised the move to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1000 currency notes, the 2017 Budget, the state of micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) growth, and the state of the Centre’s women and girl child welfare programmes among other things.
 
 One of the two Twitter users mentioned by O’Brien posted a message on his Twitter account on Friday afternoon saying that this Parliament mention had distressed his family, and that he will be taking a break from social media. “Today, I got a call from my mother… she was deeply worried. She couldn’t sleep yesterday,” he wrote after explaining his political position, and clarifying that he has “more often than not” been with the Modi government. “I feel weak today. Thanks for your enormous support. It has strengthened me during such time. I am taking a break from social media, but I will be back,” the tweet said.
 
 
