SRIKAKULAM:   hatchlings at   in Srikakulam are dying allegedly due to communicable diseases contracted from adult tortoises kept in the same enclosure, point out members of NGO  , the organisation that looks after the tortoise conservation centre in collaboration with the temple authorities.

 Further, the conservation centre is in immediate need of repairs and there is a shortage of funds for feeding the animals, they said.
 
 The ancient   Temple, situated around 130 kms from Visakhapatnam in Gara mandal, is said to be the only shrine in South India dedicated to the Kurmam (tortoise) avatar or incarnation of Maha Vishnu. As per the inscriptions on the temple pillars (there are 108 single-stone pillars), it dates back to the second century AD. The temple sees around 150-200 devotees on weekdays, around 500 on weekends and around 20,000 on special festive days. The temple, which is under the AP endowments department, houses a conservation and breeding centre for these rare star tortoises.
 
 Currently, there are 235 star tortoises in the temple premises which has come down from 255 in 2015-16. 
 
 “There’s a dire need to construct a separate enclosure for the hatchlings to protect them from communicable diseases. I had explained this to the endowments minister during his visit to the temple around one-and-a-half-years ago. He positively responded and assured us of funding. I had repeatedly appealed to the temple authorities to send a proposal to the endowments minister for this but it’s falling on deaf ears. I have also sent many reminders to both the endowments and forest departments to take necessary steps for safe rehabilitation of the hatchlings into their respective habitats in the wild. But no response came from their end so far. In the meantime, the hatchling are dying,” KV Ramana Murthy, curator of the   and executive director of Green Mercy, said. 
 
 “Even funds allotted for the upkeep of the tortoises are insufficient. We spend around Rs 30,000 on their food and medicines per month but the temple authorities are paying only Rs 24,000,” he said.
 
 These star tortoises are found in the foothills and fields of Srikakulam and devotees bring them to this temple. But they were initially left without an enclosure, making them easy prey for poachers and dogs. After the NGO brought the plight of the tortoises to the notice of the forest department in 2013, the department had readily responded and wanted to take care or release them in the wild. “But some devotees and religious organisations filed a case and kept pressuring us to withdraw the complaint. They also got a stay order from the High Court that said the tortoises shouldn’t be moved from their temple enclosure. The High Court on condition that the temple authorities provide a habitat, balanced diet, medical care and proper enclosure for these animals, allowed the temple to keep the creatures,” informed Murthy.
 
 According to the temple authorities, dearth of funds is the main problem. Endowments officer (EO) of Srikurmam Temple V Syamala Devi said, “The main problem is lack of adequate funds from the government. The temple generates an annual revenue of approximately Rs 54 lakh, out of which we have to pay the salaries of staff, take care of entire maintenance of the temple, distribute prasadam and keep the tortoises. We also have manpower shortage. However, we will try to have a separate enclosure for the hatchlings.”
 
 There’s a dire need to construct a separate enclosure for the hatchlings to protect them from communicable diseases. I had explained this to the endowments minister during his visit to the temple around one-and-a-half-years ago. He positively responded and assured of funding 
 
