NEW DELHI: The capital accounted for about 62% of the electric vehicles sold in the country in 2016. While it may seem like Delhi is leading the transition towards non-polluting vehicles, an analysis by   (CSE), released on Friday, found that the city also accounted for the highest -79% --sale of diesel mild-hybrid vehicles, which are only a “mild improvement“ over polluting diesel vehicles.

 The Centre's FAME programme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and  ), launched on April 1, 2015, to promote electric mobility has actually promoted mild hybrids as well, according to the CSE analysis. Mild hybrids use electric power for certain functions but run on diesel.
 
 In 2015-16, Rs 70 crore was spent as incentives under FAME but Rs 40 crore or 57% of it was spent on 
  . This “directly contrdicts“ the policy vision of Union power minister   to have 100% electric vehicle sales by 2030, said CSE researchers. “The diesel mild hybrids are a marginal improvement over conventional diesel models, and are much cheaper than electric vehicles. The main purpose of scaling up strong hybrid and electric vehicles for the big transition towards clean and zero emissions has not taken off,“ said   , executive director, research and advocacy , at CSE.
 
 CSE referred to the data submitted recently by the heavy industries department in the Lok Sabha that said 8% of the incentives had gone to cars and 19% to two-wheelers. Of the cars, 57% are mild diesel hybrids while only 14% are electric vehicles.No incentives were given to public transport modes.
 
 “Diesel mild hybrid vehicles, a lot less fuel-efficient than plug-in hybrids and electric vehicles, are already enjoying excise duty cut,“ a researcher pointed out. The se models also use extremely polluting lead acid batteries.“This demands immediate course correction as tax payers' money -used for these incentives -is bringing mild hybrids that are only 715% more fuel-efficient than conventional diesel models.This forgoes the benefits of improving fuel efficiency that can be as high as 32% for plug-in-hybrid cars and 68% for fully electric models,“ sa id Roy Chowdhury .
 
 The number of electric and hybrid vehicles sold are very small -just about 1.1% nationally of the total vehicle share and 4.1% in Delhi.
 
 The sales in Delhi might have been spurred by the Delhi government's Air Ambience Fund -an accumulation of pollution cess of 25 paise on every litre of diesel sold in the city .The fund is being used to subsidise electric vehicles of all categories.
 
 Under the central sche Under the central sche me, a subsidy of Rs 1,800 to Rs 22,000 is offered to two-wheelers, Rs 11,000 to Rs 1.38 lakh to cars, Rs 13,000 for mild hybrids. Out of the Rs 795 crore outlay for FAME, only Rs 190 crore was utilised in 2016.
 
