Chandigarh: Chandigarh College of Architecture former principal Prof Rajnish Wattas recently explained the idea of trees being used as an element in the urban design of the city, to the students and faculty of the prestigious Graduate School of Design at Harvard University, US.

 Prof Wattas, a heritage expert on the city’s architectural and landscape heritage, delivered the lecture, titled ‘Chandigarh: City in Gardern — Trees as Elements of Urban Design’, to a gathering of the design school, whose department of landscape architecture had organized the event in collaboration with the university’s South Asia Institute.
 
 During the session, he examined the massive unbridled urbanisation of Chandigarh and its adjoining satellite towns (Panchkula and Mohali), and this collectively posing a huge threat to the city’s future status as India’s “garden and oxygen capital”.
 
 Prof Wattas said more than 65 years ago, when Chandigarh was conceived, it was intended to be purely an administrative city with limited population, modelled on green, low-rise cities inspired by the ‘Garden City’ movement of Britain. “Contrary to general misconceptions regarding Le Corbusier’s “brutalist” architecture and perceived subjugation of nature by powerful built forms, he always looked at landscape as integral to the ‘ideal city’, and establishing site and structure unity,’” said Wattas.
 
 He elaborated that the coming together of Corbusier and the city’s founders proved to be a rare conjunction of two prime forces sharing a common vision. Corbusier’s tryst with destination happened really in Chandigarh, as he could finally implement his numerous untested urban theories on ground.
 
 The audio-visual presentation examined the above-mentioned aspects and revealed that the original landscaping concepts had a major focus on tree plantation as the dominant element of its urban design, embroidered seamlessly into its fabric. A comparison was made between the original precepts and their actual implementation on ground. Key faculty members of Harvard who attended the lecture were: department of landscape architecture head Prof Silvia Benedito and Prof Rahul Mehrotra of the urban planning department.
 
 
