AURANGABAD: Road traffic will be hit across the state on Tuesday with the  , an umbrella organization of several Maratha groups, holding a ‘peaceful’   (road blockade) agitation.

 As per Maratha leaders, the agitation will be held in all districts, talukas and villages simultaneously between 10am and 2pm. During this time, all main roads along with national and state highways will be blocked, they said.
 
 In Aurangabad, the roads will be blocked at over 40 spots while the agitation will be held at 250 places in Nanded. “In Mumbai, we will block all the main roads in two phases. In some parts, the agitation will be held between 9am and 11am while in others, it will be carried out between 10am and noon,”  , one of the organisers, told TOI. 
 
 Gavhane, however, said the agitation will be carried out in a peaceful manner. “So far, we have been resorting to peaceful agitation to press for our demands. However, if the government remains adamant, we will have no other option but to display our real strength,” he said, adding that the chakka jam andolan will eventually lead to intensified agitations in the future. 
 
 On March 6, the organisation will hold a rally in Mumbai that the community leaders said “would be the last peaceful agitation”. “Thereafter, we will intensify the agitation and may even observe complete bandh till the state issues a government resolution in our favour,” Gavhane said. 
 
 Kopardi gangrape case
 
 Marathas have been conducting peaceful rallies across the state since the Kopardi gangrape case, where a girl from the community was gangraped in Ahmednagar. The first such rally was held in Aurangabad on August 9, which saw the participation of over one lakh people. Later similar rallies were held in various cities across the state, including Mumbai and Nagpur. 
 
 Apart from reservation to the Marathas and death penalty to those involved in the Kopardi gangrape, the community is also demanding implementation of Swaminathan Commission’s recommendation. 
 
