NAGPUR: A   published by NCERT is now coming under fire for allegedly dedicating a page to   and then goes on to question students on what advice they will give to his followers. A group of citizens told TOI that the Std X book, said to be available for free download on NCERT web site, seems to unnecessarily glorify Kishenji in chapter no 6 titled ‘Political Parties’.

 Kishenji was killed by CoBRA battalion in an encounter near the Bengal-Jharkhand border on November 24, 2011. The book was first published in March 2007 and the latest reprint is January this year. It is not known how many schools have subscribed to the book which contains the lesson on Kishenji in what appears to be a comprehension passage.
 
 The chapter’s subsection called ‘A moral force in politics’ begins by talking about four friends discussing Kishenji's vision about future of their movement. No clarity is given about what their “movement” is but there are ample textual reference to connect the dots apart from the name Kishenji itself being mentioned.
 
 It is not clear yet whether Kishenji is mentioned in any other chapters of the book but here the Naxalite ideologue is described as “as a friend, political philosopher and moral guide by all the movement groups in the country”.
 
 The four women friends themselves are described in such words that leave very little doubt over their identity. The chapter reads ‘All four women had led very powerful people’s movements in different parts of the country. They were meeting in a village in Orissa, away from their day-to-day struggles, to think afresh the future of people’s movements.”
 
 The questions for students at end of this subsection are: Kishenji is no more. What would be your advice to these four activists? Should they form a new political party? Can a political party become a moral force in politics? What should that party be like?
 
 The discussion between the four women continues on what each one believes to be Kishenji's plan for the movement's future. According to the book Kishenji believed “people’s movement must establish a new political formation to act as a moral force in politics. This was an urgent task, he said, because all the existing political parties had become irrelevant for social transformation”.
 
 One woman says that Kishenji never clarified what that organization will be. “He talked of an alternative political formation or a third force in politics. But did he mean a political party?” she says adding that “an old style political party was not the right instrument for social change”.
 
 The second woman agrees saying “all the struggles that we are involved with — the struggle against displacement, against globalization, against caste and gender oppression and for an alternative kind of development — all this is political. But the moment we form a party, all the goodwill we have earned all these years will be lost. People will think of us as no different from other politicians.”
 
 The third woman says that fighting elections has been tried by them but it did not yield results. The fourth woman disagreed saying “Kishenji wanted all the people’s movements to forge a new political party. Of course, he wanted this party to be a different kind of a party. He was not for political alternatives, but for an alternative kind of politics.”
 
 An officer involved in anti-Naxal operations said that it’s a “tragic” case. “When the government is engaged in tackling Naxal ideology in the affected regions with manpower, budgetary allocations and also lives are being laid down, it is ironic that schoolbooks are highlighting Reds in this manner”.
 
 In the tribal district of Gadchiroli last year, the then ANO chief Shivaji Bodkhe had asked two lakh students to take a ‘nationalism oath’ to distance themselves from Naxalism or any other anti-government ideologies.
 
 “It is baffling how a chapter mentioning Naxalism and their leader slips into study materials,” said the officer not wanting to be named.
 
 It's learnt that some security agencies are now planning to rope in NGOs to come to the forefront to oppose the content of the textbook and highlight it before the concerned department so that the objectionable portion is removed.
 
 Incidentally, on Tuesday in Nagpur, additional DG (operations) D Kanakratnam held a meeting of the Anti-Naxal Operation staff.
 
