MYSURU: Thousands of civil service exam aspirants attended Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil service   motivation session here on Monday. Bureaucrats, including   and   officers, had teamed up to guide the aspirants. What’s more, they are also planning to launch an exclusive blog for the purpose.

 Mysuru district administration and the district police organized the UPSC civil service exams awareness and motivation programme at Kalamandir. Students from across the district got tips form the experts.
 
 DC D  , who inaugurated the programme, told the participants: “Civil services aspirants should understand UPSC thoroughly. It is a transparent and autonomous body like the Election Commission of India. It is protected by the Constitution, and there is no government interference in its affairs.”
 
 “I was successful in the fourth attempt.   are toughest in the world besides being highly competitive. One cannot find such competition even in IITs and IIMs. Only 0.1-0.3% of the candidates succeed in civil service exams. Cracking UPSC exams does not mean one should be brilliant or a gold medallist. Those with basic aptitude and knowledge on public administration can succeed here,” he said, adding: “Of late, women candidates are also enjoying success in civil service exams in big numbers. There is no reservation for women here, and it is also not required as they are capable to make it on their own.”
 
 ‘Coaching is personal choice’
 
 The DC said many students go to coaching classes, “but it is just a personal choice”. “Marathon practice and hard work are key to succeed in the exams. Regularly reading NCERT books and newspapers will be of great help.   exam is a key step, while the mains gives one strength. Doing well in   boosts ranking. One has to maximize each attempt,” he added.
 
 Probationary IAS Lakshmi Priya, a 2015-batch IAS officer, explained the basics of the exams, online applications, optionals, medium of exam and about “short and smart study”.
 
 BCom student H M Sharan said the programme has inspired him to apply for the exam. “Both the DC and the SP are our role models. Thanks to the district administration, the programme cleared many of my doubts and gave a clear picture about the exam patterns,” he added.
 
 SP Ravi  , probationary IPS officers M S Mohammed Sujitha and Arunamshu Giri attended.
 
 
