JAIPUR: After deaths of 24 people in a wall collapse at an  ,   (JMC) woke up from the deep slumber.

 On Friday early morning, JMC officials inspected various marriage gardens in the city and checked their licences. During inspection, officials immediately sealed 11 marriage gardens in Amber zone, which were found to be illegal.
 
 Acting on the directions of  , officials inspected the marriage gardens along with checking their licences. 
 
 Amber zone deputy commissioner Kavita Chaudhary along with deputy inspector (vigilance) Hazari Lal Sharma and revenue inspector Vaidhnath Sharma reached Amber, which has one of the biggest clusters of marriage gardens. The officials tighten noose around the gardens, which do not possess licence issued by JMC.
 
  JMC officials sealed 11 such marriage gardens, which have not been registered with JMC. The JMC does not have any record regarding existence of such marriage gardens. Terming them illegal, they sealed . Officials said there could be many more such unregistered marriage gardens.
 
 A senior JMC official said, “For the first time, such an action has been taken against marriage gardens operating without obtaining relevant permissions from civic bodies.”
 
 Among marriage gardens which have been seized are Shivam marriage garden, Gauri house Vivah Sthal, Jagirdar marriage garden Amber, Amber Bagh Garden, Ratan Paradise, Sitaram Banya, Bhagat marriage garden, Azim Marriage garden, Kalal Marriage garden, SL marriage garden and one marriage garden in Karbala. 
 
 Local self government (LSG) department had issued guidelines to marriage gardens stating it is necessary to procure licences from the government. The marriage lawns must have NoC from fire department for the safety of visitors partaking in marriage ceremony. Also, there must be parking space for vehicles as per provisions of marriage garden by-laws. 
 
 FIR against 10 coaching centres for defacing city
 
 JMC, on Friday, lodged FIRs against 10 coaching centres for allegedly defacing the city under Rajasthan Prevention Of Defacement Of Property Act . Officials have also sealed three coaching centres in Mansarovar zone for allegedly defacing the city by sticking posters of their institutes for luring students.
 
