PUNE: An active western disturbance is expected to bring snow over parts of northwest India, especially J&K, Uttarakhand and  , as well as rain over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on February 4 and 5, the   (IMD) has said in a recent forecast.

 A change in weather has been forecast across India in the next few days, but minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to rise gradually in most parts of the country after February 10.
 
 Maharashtra, too, may get some respite with minimum temperatures expected to drop slightly in many areas, including Pune and Mumbai, after a couple of days. However, before the temperatures drop in Maharashtra, they may rise by 2-3 degrees celsius in Konkan, Goa, central Maharashtra and Marathwada over the next two days.
 
 In the northwest part of the country, minimum temperatures may rise by 2-4 degrees celsius in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next three days and then fall by 2-4 degrees celsius, IMD officials said.
 
 A K Srivastava, senior scientist and head of climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, Pune, told TOI that a strong western disturbance affecting the western Himalayan region from February 3 is likely to cause fairly widespread to widespread rain or snowfall over the region. “It may also cause isolated to scattered rain or thundershowers over the adjoining plains of northwest India during the next 3-4 days,” he said.
 
 Srivastava said the temperature in Maharashtra may fall only slightly after a couple of days as the easterly influence from the peninsula is still strong over the region. “This time, the easterly wave has been active in the beginning of the year too, as against the past trend when it is active in the months of November and December. The easterly wave comes from the ocean, thus warming the regions under its influence,” he said.
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist from  , said scattered light to moderate rain and thundershowers are expected over Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and parts of Delhi during the next 24-48 hours. A few places in Punjab and Haryana may also receive a few spells of hail, he said.
 
