AGARTALA: Incessant rain for the past three weeks resulting in flash floods in the state has left idol-makers worried about meeting deadlines for the supply of idols for Durga Puja.

 The Met department has predicted more rain in the coming days but the festive days are expected to be dry. Weathermen said there was more than normal rain in Tripura this year. The intensity of the rain and the accompanying flash floods and water-logging not only hit normal life but also made a huge dent in pre-Puja business. “At least on seven occasions this year, Agartala experienced flooding which took a toll on business. Retail stock of clothes, cosmetics, shoes and toys have been affected,” said Harekrishna Banik, a member of a retail traders’ association.
 
 Railway service was hit last month and air freight was limited to bringing in goods from other states. Special Puja collections did not reach Agartala this season and whatever could be brought in were damaged in the flood waters.
 
 Sellers rued that now there is very little time to bring in fresh stocks. Display of goods was hampered because of the rain. “Most state government employees have not been given salary and arrears till date. We cannot display Puja special items and have suffered huge losses,” said Bibhas Saha, a cloth merchant. “The consistent drizzle has marred shopping,” said another cloth merchant. Idol-makers are worst-hit having to dry the images with electric and kerosene blowers.
 
 The sun has been playing hide and seek for the last many days and in the absence of a strong sun, the idols cannot dry. “We have to bank on the blowers. Drying is only one part of the job. We have to paint and decorate the idols and carry them to the pandals,” said Uttam Chakraborty, an idol-maker.
 
 There’s no respite for Puja organisers either who have hired decorators to do the interiors and exteriors of pandals.
 
 While decorations can be done inside the pandal, the frequent rain is forcing the organizers to cover the pandals with tarpaulin. “So when do we decorate the pandals?” asked an organiser.
 
