He is a man who has donned many hats. After over two decades in the film industry, actor-politician-journalist R   is as active as ever, and still approaches each film as he would his first. The actor, who has a long-standing association with Bengaluru, spoke to us about the city, his next release,  , what he looks out for when signing a film and more…

 
 
 Yes. In my younger days, I used to deliver newspapers in Bengaluru, before becoming a journalist. I also worked in a few showrooms here, after which I moved to Chennai. So, my career took off in Bengaluru; the city is special to me.
 
 
 
 I don’t think that anyone else should dub for an actor because expressions are very important while dubbing. When someone else dubs for you, they may not know the right emotions. Yes, there are many good dubbing artistes, but their voice and expressions may not always be apt. According to me, dubbing is a very important component of acting, which is why I do it for all the films I act in, regardless of the language.
 
 
 
 From day one, it is important to be with the team and get along with them. There were many other stars on the set of Raajakumara, and I was comfortable with each one of them. I felt at home we were like a family. I am happy to be associated with Raajakumara and really liked working with Puneeth (Rajkumar).   is a legend in the film industry and it was great to work with members of his family. I have worked with Shivarajkumar in the past in Santheyalli Nintha Kabira.
 
 
  
 
 
 I only do movies in which I am really required. If I feel that just about anyone can essay a character, and that Sarath Kumar is not really needed, then I won’t opt for it. I have to feel that I will do well for the movie and that it will do well for me as well. I enjoyed working in Raajakumara and after this experience, I am looking forward to doing more films in Kannada.
 
 
 
 Definitely. Any actor who has been on the top of his/her game, suffers a setback of sorts when he/she turns to politics, especially in Tamil Nadu, where the political scenario is very different. But I have been active in both politics and in films, and I am confident that I can break barriers. People understand now that I can do both pretty well.
 
 
 
 I have acted in over 135 films and still, every film is fresh for me and I treat it like my first one. I listen closely to the script, and once I am convinced, the director is then the captain of the ship. That is how I approached Raajakumara as well.
 
 
 
 Certainly. Such incidents are not restricted to the film industry alone; it happens elsewhere as well. It is high time someone raises their voice and comes out in the open about what happens — you help others as well that way. I told my daughter that her movement should not be about protecting women in the film industry, but women in general. The organization will be a great help to society and I am very happy with how it has shaped up. 
 
