AHMEDABA/ SURAT/ VADODARA:   near Godhra, served in the   for 28 years. His son, Sunil, had followed in his footsteps to serve the nation. However, Sunil laid down his life fighting in the Guraj sector of Jammu and Kashmir on January 27 this year. An infantryman with 51 Rashtriya Rifles, he was one of the 14 jawans who died that day at Pir post, located at the height of 5,000 feet.

  
  
  On May 10, former UP chief minister   had said in Lucknow: “UP, Madhya Pradesh, Dakshin Bharat har jagah se shaheed huye hain,   ka koi jawan shaheed hua ho toh batao.” (Jawans from UP, Madhya Pradesh, South India and other parts of the country have sacrificed their lives but tell me whether anyone has been martyred from Gujarat).
 
 Kin of martyrs such as Patel are aghast by Akhilesh’s statement. “He has lost his mental balance. After losing badly in UP, he has started talking like this to get media attention,” Patel said.
 
 Jagdish Soni, elder brother of Captain Nilesh Soni who was killed during Operation Meghdoot nearly 30 years ago, said that there is a glorious tradition in a number of families to send their children in the armed forces to serve the nation. “It was my father’s wish to see one of his sons join the army at the height of 1965 war,” he said.
 
 The Soni family has kept alive the memory of Captain Nilesh in the form of a memorial near Anjali crossroads. However, Jagdish Soni is vocal about the need for a memorial to commemorate Gujaratis who had died for the country. 
 
 “We have already made representations at various levels to get a Shaheed Smarak on Sabarmati Riverfront, not only as tribute to martyrs but also to inspire the next generation,” he said.
 
 A Surat-based voluntary organization has a database of more than 100 soldiers from the state who had died fighting for the country. Officials said that from July 2016 to May 2017, 14 jawans from Gujarat died on the front. A year before, the figure was 10.
 
 Kanji Bhalala, trustee of the organization, said that in 1999 they had appealed to people for help to martyrs’ families. “We had collected Rs1.64 crore. Now every year on July 22 (Kargil Vijay Day), we organize a function and give Rs 2 lakh in assistance to the families of martyrs.”
 
 Bhalala further said that when politicians like Yadav speak like this, it hurts as the jawan doesn’t belong to a region but the whole nation.
 
 Vallabh Ramani, father of Major Rushikhesh Ramani who died fighting in Jammu and Kashmir in 2009, said that it is wrong to think that Guajratis do not join armed forces. 
 
 “This may have been true maybe 30 years ago but today one can find Gujaratis keen to joing the paramilitary forces and all the three wings of the armed forces,” he said.
 
 After the death of his son, Vallabh Ramani has taken upon himself to spread awareness among teens and youth about serving in the armed forces. 
 
 “I have met at least 700-800 youths in the past five years who want to join the armed forces and serve the country. The choice also makes economic sense as their pay and perks are almost on par with what is offered in the private sector,” Ramani said. 
 
