AURANGABAD: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education ( ) has appealed to students to follow the Class XII exam schedule that has been circulated to the respective colleges. The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams will start from Tuesday, 

 Stating that the exam timetable that was made available on the MSBSHSE's official website on December 22, the state has specifically said that the candidates should only refer to the exam schedule circulated through respective institutions.
 
 In an MSBSHSE statement, secretary   also appealed candidates not to follow   circulated by private third parties.
 
 "Students are advised to appear for exams as per the timetable circulated through respective junior colleges. Following any other schedule could invite academic loss," he said.
 
 Around 65 HSC students from state board's Aurangabad division had to miss the textile paper during the February-March 2015 exam, as they went for the test according to the timing mentioned in the online timetable, which differed from the one scheduled as per the MSBSHSE hard copy.
 
 Altogether 1, 62, 337 candidates registered for the HSC exam from the MSBSHSE's Aurangabad division, which compromises five districts - Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli, Beed and Aurangabad. The theory papers for the HSC exam are scheduled till March 25.
 
 "Adequate measures have been in place so that the HSC exam is held smoothly. The exam will be conducted across 369 exam centres across the division. We have held a series of meetings with the principals and education officers from each district in the division to avoid glitches,"  , acting secretary of the MSBSHSE's Aurangabad division, said.
 
 She said the state board has formed 35 flying squads in the Aurangabad division apart from separate vigilance teams by the revenue department and district administration.
 
 "We have identified 15 sensitive centres in the division based on the high prevalence of malpractices during previous exams and these will be on the radar during invigilation," Vahul said.
 
 State board authorities said that the practice of banning cellphones inside the exam hall as well as within the premise of exam centre will be continued this year as well.
 
 "Only the exam centre chief, his deputy and custodian will be allowed to use cellphones, and those found using it in an unauthorised manner will be subjected to legitimate action," Vahul said.
 
