Once a the man Friday of   patriarch  , expelled Samajwadi Party leader   is back in his bandghala suits. This time he's making surprise public appearances in Mulayam's   seat Azamgarh. The district Azamgarh also houses Amar's own residence in village Tarwa. 

 Amar Singh is heaping praises on the BJP and even predicting a victory for the saffron party as he grabs a cordless mike outside his home.
 
 With barely a few days to go for March 4 and March 8, last two phases of polls, the move has surprised many at Azamgarh where SP won 9 out of 10 seats in 2012. 
 
 His praises for Prime minister Modi and BJP only become more frequent as he moves from his home to address people at Nizamabad, Didarganj, Lalganj and neighbouring Jaunpur in Varanasi. But he makes a cautious effort to not publically ask his old colleagues to not vote for the SP. "Mulayam Singh ji is a very experienced and mature leader. You would remember he said about me that I am not in his dal but in his dil. 
 
 He readily shares his takes on his ties with B-town celeberities who are missing from the SP's big rallies this time. "I think SP is missing my networking with Bollywood. Jaya Bacchan has come only once, why?" he asks
 
 He discloses his own turn-around in politics and personal life, as he shows a heavy mix of rudrakshas and lucky rosaries he wears around his neck.
 
 "This is my second expulsion. After 2010, I had made up mind never to join SP. Mulayamji had felt the vaccum after 2014 Lok Sabha tally. I was in Ujjain with Juna Akhara Acharya Swami Avdeshanandji when I got a call on my nomination to Rajya Sabha last year. He is a very close personal friend. And it's unwritten norm between me and him is that we will stand by each other always. So anything is possible in life," Amar tells TOI as he rubs one of the stones on his fingers. 
 
 In between as he gets call on his Nokia E 66 from his friends from Dubai, he insists that he has nothing to hide on his personal business.
 
 "I have my investments and interests abroad. It's not something to hide. I am open about my businesses" he says. He twice mentions his news CISF Z-security cover as he asks them to join for food but is quick to dismiss the speculation of overtures to the BJP.
 
