Goans are known to celebrate every milestone with aplomb. Be it the birth of a child, the death of the aged, or for that matter, the marriage of the young.   weddings are patented with unique rituals, many of which are fading quickly or adapting with modern life to stay relevant. While some customs associated with a Goan wedding, especially those of the Catholic community, are no longer practiced, there are a few still surviving and evolving, though the people with skills to carry them forward are sorely lacking.
 
  The anointing of the bride and bridegroom with coconut milk — an interesting ceremony called   — is one that hasn’t really lost its popularity. During the ros, the bride and the groom are ceremonially bathed in coconut milk. Both houses are abuzz with activity, as music blares and family members, relatives and neighbours gather to bathe the couple, traditionally each at their respective residences. The bridesmaid and best man are usually present and receive a splash of the milk, too.
  
  When   and his fiancée decided on a combined ros they expected to raise a few eyebrows. This is a ceremony the bride and groom do in their own homes to the singing of   wedding verses, the zoti. It wasn't easy convincing the parents, says his now-wife Perpetual, but a joint ritual was hugely convenient. Nowadays, the ros is just an excuse for a party. At most people’s ros, the zoti is given the miss; instead a disc jockey is hired to entertain guests.
  
  Bathing the bride/groom in coconut milk symbolizes purity and the end of bachelorhood and spinsterhood. Ironically, while Goans are increasingly cutting down on rituals or abbreviating them, they are stretching the wedding itself into elaborate, fun-filled three-day affairs. Small feasts are turning into banquets, any small ceremony is an excuse to party. And as for conventions, they are being reworked for convenience.
  
  These days, it may seem perfectly normal to have the ros a couple of days before the wedding. But traditionally it was held a day before the wedding or on the eve before the couple is finally bound together by the sacrament of matrimony. But then there is good reason to space out the ros and the nuptials: to add to the fun quotient, friends and families have taken to throwing in the odd egg along with the coconut milk. Brides do not want to risk smelling of eggs and beer at their own wedding.
  
  Before the ros ceremony begins, the family recites a short prayer to bless the groom and bride for their married life ahead.
  
  The mother, or the eldest in the family, dabs her thumb in coconut oil and makes a sign of the cross on the forehead of the soon-to-be-married person, followed by either scooping coconut milk and applying it to their body or pouring it over the head. The bridesmaid/best man, sitting beside the groom/bride are similarly treated.
  
  All this while, as the anointing goes on, there is much merriment and laughter and singing. A woman, usually an elderly one who knows a lot of verses or manddos, belts out the typical ditties that impart some value to the event.
  
  As people with these special skills are fewer to come by, recorded music is played to make up for the lack of these singers in some places. In  , these women are easier to find.
  
  After this ceremony, it is a belief that the couple should not go out of the house till the wedding day. The ros is usually followed by lunch or dinner called the Rosachem Jevon. A sweet dish made of rice, coconut and jaggery known as sojje is either served to the guests at the end of the ros or as dessert after dinner.
  
  Traditionally, the ceremony was held in a specially prepared 'mattov' (pandal) but with families moving to cities, apartment-dwellers have this ceremony on terrace tops and in some cases community halls. In the past, families would offer a mass to the departed souls of their families on the day of ros.
  
  Some families still follow these traditions religiously but, over the years, it has mutated into a fun ceremony, an excuse to party.
