BENGALURU: Two former chief ministers -- N   and   -- could be in for some trouble soon. The   on Wednesday asked the   (SIT) to conduct probe against the two leaders, along with bureaucrats named in the Lokayukta’s report, for their alleged involvement in permitting illegal mining of iron ore in Ballari district.

 The case filed against 14 persons, including Singh, Kumaraswamy and former Union minister S M Krishna in 2011, pertains to dereservation of 11,797 sqkm of forest area in Ballari. However, Krishna got relief as the apex court said the investigation against him shall remain stayed till further orders. The probe against Krishna was stayed on November 16, 2016 on the grounds that the then Lokayukta had not found any evidence against him.
 
 The court will monitor the SIT inquiry, which has to be submitted to it within three months. The bureaucrats, some of them whom have retired, are: M Basappa Reddy, Gangaram Baderiya, V Umesh, I R Perumal, K S Manjunath, D S Ashwath, Jija Madhavan Hari Singh, .Mahendra Jain, K Srinivas, M Ramappa and Shankaralingiah.
 
 A bench comprising Justices P C Ghose and R F Nariman asked the SIT of Karnataka police to file a report within three months and restrained all other courts, including the high court, from passing any order in the case. The court passed the order on a plea from one of the complainants, T J Abraham, who alleged that the former chief ministers connived with several bureaucrats to grant permission to various companies to carry out mining activities on forest land. He referred to various reports of then Lokayukta Justice N Santosh Hegde indicting several politicians and bureaucrats for allowing illegal mining in the state.
 
 Agreeing with his plea, the bench said there was “no action” taken on the reports of the Lokayukta, and probe should be conducted to check the veracity of the allegations.
 
 ‘WILL COOPERATE’ 
 
 I welcome the Supreme Court order and will cooperate with the probe
 
 H D Kumaraswamy | former CM
 
