NEW DELHI: For 25-year-old Susan (name changed), finding the “love of her life“ on Facebook was nothing short of a fairy tale affair. Faheem was a suave, soft-spoken banker who took her to high-end restaurants and for long drives in his white Audi.

 On his Facebook profile, Faheem M K was a banker educated at   . He was single, a shareholder at New Kabul Bank, and the owner of a firm named Etisalat.
 
 The conman removed all suspicions by proposing to her a few months ago after which they got married. The couple signed a legal document that Faheem had got from a court to get the marriage registered.
 
 The trouble in paradise started when the “banker“ suddenly needed money to pay Taliban terrorists in Kabul to get his family freed. Blindly trusting her “husband“, Susan ended up paying around 86,000 dollars in several instalments, which Faheem transferred to unidentified accounts through Western Union money transfer. Things changed drastically when the man realised that Susan had no more money to give him. The Casanova began avoiding Susan and started a fresh hunt for a new target.
 
 The con, however, had to end at some point. Soon, one of his victims looking for revenge met Susan after she found out that he was living with her. But Susan was blinded by devotion and did not find anything suspicious. It was a chance scrutiny of the “marriage certificate“ that blew Faheem alias  's cover. When the US woman was told by Faheem's victim that it was fake, she took it to a notary for confirmation and her worst fears were realised.
 
 The other woman was too scared to stand up against Faheem given the contacts he had flaunted, but Susan decided not to give up. She searched for the man's details on “whoscammedyou.com“ and realised that Faheem's real name was Hameedullah and he was a conman. “When the woman confronted Faheem, not only was she brutally beaten up, but the man threatened to post their intimate pictures on porn websites. He also warned that he would disfigure her face by throwing acid,“ said joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav .
 
 Yadav said the woman was scared for her life as the man was “very dangerous“ and had close contacts in FBI, CBI and  . She filed the FIR after the senior officer assured her not to worry . Hameedullah's laptop has been seized and it will be examined by forensic experts to ascertain the nature of pictures and videos on it.
 
