BHUBANESWAR: While speaking about the   government's contribution to Odisha in three years, the BJP on Friday highlighted how state native Draupadi Murmu from a humble tribal background was made governor of Jharkhand and 'poor' literary personality Haldhar Nag got Padmashri.

 It drew sharp reactions from the Congress and the BJD, who said the narratives show the BJP did these to strengthen its party base in the state and did nothing for socio-economic development of the 4.20 crore Odias.
 
 Addressing a news conference here, BJP legislature party leader K V Singhdeo said the party got one MP ( ) from the state but gifted two important portfolios (tribal affairs to Jual and petroleum to Dharmendra who is a Rajya Sabha member from Bihar).
 
 Stating that Modi has struck an emotional chord with Odias, KV said, "The PM's recognition of ASHA Jamunamani in his Mann Ki Baat and bending before her while felicitating the humble lady have moved Odias." During his visit to Odisha in February last year, Modi had honoured Jamunamani for her work to control malaria in Balasore district.
 
 Coming from economically poor background, literary and cultural personalities Haldhar Nag and Jitendra Haripal along with filmmaker Nila Madhab Panda, actor Sadhu Meher, Odissi exponent Aruna Mohanty and surgeon Mukut Minz were felicitated with Padma awards, which touched every Odia, KV said.
 
 The senior BJP leader said Modi visited Odisha five times during his three years in office and said the PM never forgets to get himself involved in festivals of Odisha. He wishes people through social media even on regional festivals like Nuakhai and Raja, he said. Responding to the BJP's highlights, leader of opposition and senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said it is unfortunate that recognition to eminent personalities given on their merit and appointment of a governor were cited as Modi's gifts to Odisha. "The BJP should have spoken about what it did for socio-economic change in Odisha. With this, their petty politics to build up their organization has come to light," Narasingha told TOI. 
 
 BJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Pratap Keshari Deb echoed similar views, stating many pro-poor central programmes were discontinued after Modi came to power.
 
