CHENNAI: Passengers heading into the city airport's   will from on Monday have to depend on signs at the facility and SMSs that airlines send them, with Airports Authority of India (AAI) making it a silent airport like those that meet international standards. 

 Airlines will, from May 1, not make announcements, including  , at the domestic terminal to reduce   at the terminal. Airports in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and a few smaller airports in the country already follow the system.
 
 A senior AAI official said the authority took the decision been on suggestions from passengers, many of whom said they were uncomfortable with the racket made by airline announcements about boarding gates and calls for boarding during peak hours. "We consulted airlines and other agencies who work at the airport [before deciding] to do away with boarding announcements," he said.
 
 A statement that the airport issued said airlines will "notify [passengers about] any changes in boarding time, baggage delivery belts and other information through SMS". However, airlines will make limited announcements in case there is a change of boarding gates.
 
 AAI staff and airline staff will have to work with greater coordination so airport officials assign check-in counters, boarding gates and baggage delivery belts well in advance so passengers can receive SMSs on time.   has followed the no-announcement rule for some time at Chennai, well before AAI decided to make it a silent airport. The airline has been sending messages to passengers to update them about departure and boarding times and other details, stressing that they will not make announcements.
 
 Sources said some airlines were hesitant to do away with announcements. "There is a lot of planning involved but it will help in punctuality," an official said. "IndiGo airlines has been doing this on its own because it is particular to maintain good timings."
 
 The system is part of certain airport   AAI is working to step up security camera surveillance and dispense with tags for hand baggage. Passengers will be able to generate baggage tags like they do boarding passes.
 
