Born in Bangalore, brought up in Calcutta, achieving the peaks of success in Bombay, the tragically charismatic actor-director   spent a considerable part of his last two years in Madras, as Chennai was known then. It’s a fact that most biographers do not care to look at, though hapless Guru Dutt could not do so as the dream factories of the South worked considerably more efficiently than Bombay and paid up in time. 

 Subsequent to the debacle of his ambitious dream film, ‘Kaagaz ke Phool’, despite successes like ‘Chaudhvin Ka Chand’ (in the lead role) and ‘Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam’ — which he ghost directed and acted in — Guru Dutt looked southward though the productions here were only remakes of proven Tamil/Telugu films rewritten and packaged with the Hindi audience in mind.
 
 In this phase, Guru Dutt was first signed for ‘Bharosa’ (released in September 1963) by N Vasudeva Menon of Vasu Films. Made with expert technicians (cinematographer Thambu, famed for Gemini classics like ‘Avvaiyar’) and K Shanker (film editor turned director), all Guru Dutt had to do in the film was play a good-hearted country bumpkin romping around with Asha Parekh. Bharosa was followed by ‘Bahurani’ (released in January 1964), based on successful films in Telugu (‘Ardhangi’) and Tamil (‘Pennin Perumai’). With the Anglo Indian veteran Marcus Bartley behind the camera and the masterly T Prakash Rao calling the shots, Guru Dutt stood out as the retarded son transformed by the redemptive influence of his good wife (Mala Sinha).
 
 It was then that the influential film producer A L Srinivasan booked Guru Dutt for ‘Suhagan’, the Hindi version of his Tamil hit ‘Sarada’. K S Gopalakrishnan, whom Srinivasan had introduced as a director in ‘Sarada’, was billed to direct the Hindi version too. But he was more than anxious that he would have to direct Guru Dutt. The latter’s reputation as a technically brilliant director had preceded him to Madras, and Gopalakrishnan feared that Dutt might give him a torrid time questioning every shot.
 
 When Srinivasan introduced Guru Dutt to Gopalakrishnan on the sets, Guru Dutt called the director aside and told him: "Gopalakrishnan, people might have told you that I am a big director. But I have left all that behind. I have come to act in your film. You are my director. It’s my duty to follow what you say. It’s your responsibility to get from me what you need". The unassuming manner in which Guru Dutt spoke put the lid on Gopalakrishnan’s fears and he hugged Guru Dutt with tears in his eyes.
 
 Komal Swaminathan, reputed playwright and writer who assisted Gopalakrishnan in the film and considered the friendship he formed with Guru Dutt during the shooting of Suhaagan as one of the blessings of his life, has recorded these impressions. In the event, Guru Dutt and Gopalakrishnan became thick friends during the shooting of  . Gopalakrishnan’s description of the tank in his native village Malliyam, ‘teeming with Murrel fish’, whetted Guru Dutt’s appetite. He was passionate about fishing. He spent a week in Malliyam, sometimes angling for fish, unmindful of the hot summer sun, sometimes partaking of the coconut toddy that was brought specially for him. Gopalakrishnan marvelled that his hero was as ardent about country stuff as for Chivas Regal.
 
 A L Srinivasan, who was famous for the frequent parties he threw, looked after Guru Dutt well, even as the latter was solicitous of the needs of his producer. ‘‘Unlike some Hindi stars, he would be on time on the sets. On the last day of his shooting, he had the director take every manner of shot of him, in case the need arose for such shots later’’, recalls Jayanthi Kannappan, Srinivasan’s daughter-in-law. Gopalakrishnan’s unit was later shocked when on the last day of editing they got the news of Guru Dutt’s untimely death. Suhaagan, which was released months later, was advertised as Guru Dutt’s ‘last and best’. Though it was no hit film, it did not rock the boat of the producer either.
 
 K Appasami, 81, who worked for A L S productions, and was Guru Dutt’s attendant in Madras for three schedules, remembers Guru Dutt fondly. ‘’He was generally accommodated in the now defunct Oceanic Hotel. I have seen many heroes from Hindi cinema. But Guru Dutt was a different breed. He was a thorough gentleman. Unlike many stars, he had no airs. I will always remember him with respect’’.
 
 (The writer is a historian of Tamil film music and an author of many books on Tamil cinema)
 
 
