NAGPUR:   has shown flexibility towards India’s stance on including Indian traditional knowledge database in Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT)-minimum documentation. Russia is the only country among the BRICS nations that had so far not agreed to the proposal. 

 India wants that BRICS as a bloc of nations should lobby for documentation of its traditional knowledge database in PCT, which is an international agreement. The database has been painstakingly prepared by the country’s scientists in 2006. However, for that Russia too has to agree. Once it does, BRICS can push India’s stance in   (WIPO).
 
 This is intended to give international protection against patenting or commercial exploitation of India’s traditional knowledge base. India is banking on this. Minimum documentation in PCT will flag the items of traditional knowledge of a country preventing it to be patented intentionally. 
 
 Even though Russia, unlike other BRICS countries, has so far held out, India is now hopeful. Russia has asked for some more documents to study the issue. This happened during a meeting of   coordinators of BRICS countries at Rajeev Gandhi International Institute of Intellectual Property Management in the city. The institute, which is part of the Union ministry of commerce, also held a training of BRICS coordinators.
 
 Talking to TOI at the sidelines of the meeting, deputy coordinator of patents A S Kundu said Russia had asked India to submit more documents on traditional knowledge database. India has agreed to submit the same in 15 days. The papers include data on details, how is the knowledge unique and other technical aspects related to it, said Kundu. 
 
 Russia has also given its approval to include traditional knowledge in Brazil’s project of patents’ classification, he said.
 
 India is also expecting to sign a   on intellectual property cooperation with Russia and China’s   (SIPO). This will ensure better cooperation in skills and information sharing between the country. This will also give India the status of intentional search authority in China. So the search to be conducted before filing a patent can be done in India.
 
 
