NAGPUR: In some hopes for  , a majority of which are facing severe shortage of students, over   have applied for the state engineering entrance examination —  . According to the officials from   (DTE), this is perhaps highest ever numbers of aspirants applying for the exam.

 Of them over 45,000 are from Nagpur division comprising six districts and two universities — Nagpur and Gondwana. The DTE would be conducting MHT-CET for admissions into bachelor of engineering and pharmacy courses on May 11, while the results would be declared before June 4. It had already made some changes by reducing a counselling round, which means the entire   (CAP) would be completed in three rounds. 
 
 Officials added that increase in number of MHT-CET aspirants would indicate that this year the vacancies would reduce to some extent. Last year about 10,838 seats were not filled up in 56 engineering colleges coming under NU and GU. For about 23,605 seats, over 19,000 students had registered but only 12,767 could actually take the admission. In pharmacy, 28 seats remained vacant in 15 colleges.
 
 Till couple of years back, there were over 60 engineering colleges coming under jurisdiction of joint director for technical education in Nagpur, which used to conduct admissions in the region. However, about six were closed down in last couple of years, as they failed to attract students, primarily on account of poor infrastructure and shortage of qualified teachers. Many colleges also closed down their branches like IT, which failed to attract the students.
 
 Officials however cautioned that just in rise in numbers couldn’t be taken as guarantee of all of them would be taking admissions in the engineering and pharmacy courses. 
 
 Among other divisions, most number of aspirants were from Pune — 92,465, followed by Mumbai — 79,677, Nashik — 46,038 and Nagpur.
 
 The officials said this would be last MHT-CET to be held by the state as MHRD granted permission to conduct one single entrance exam like JEE for admission to all engineering courses across the country on the lines of NEET, from next year.
 
