KOLKATA: When three trainloads of bright students left Bengal to attempt the engineering entrance test to southern campuses for the first time, facilitated by the then railway minister Mamata Banerjee, the then member of board of directors of IT giant   had secretly shed a tear or two. He knew this was a brain drain that would affect Bengal in the long run. As it turned out, Bengaluru's gain was Bengal's loss and things have not changed much over a decade and a half.

 A lot has happened since then.  , who was then on the  , went on to become an educational philanthropist with a deep focus on primary education through his laudable   that ensures that every child is well fed and goes to school, but that fleeting vision of brain drain from Bengal and its after-effects have turned out to be true.
 
 “I would like to thank Kolkata for one thing. Of the 10 million population of Bengaluru, the IT industry has 1.5 million, and of these 1,50,000 are young Bengalis. The best and the brightest of Bengal have come to Bengaluru. Kolkata was the place where many came for education many , many years ago... I hope some of them stay back and remake Bengal and Kolkata,“ Pai said while speaking on the future of education in India at the bicentenary celebrations of   on Friday. Describing the historic institution's contribution to education, Mohandas Pai said the romance of education started from here and it is from here that India battled for supremacy , much like the US which surged ahead powered by its universities. “From a time when education in India was anchored by the gurukul system to a time when globally we are approaching a future anchored in virtual universities, there has been a paradigm shift in education and we have to adjust ourselves to make best use of the situation.“
 
 “Education was the preserve of the elite first, thereafter we entered into a mass enrolment but poor quality delivery phase and have now entered a phase where knowledge is available for free thanks to tech-enabled pedagogy , flipped classrooms, web based universities...“ Pai explained.
 
 Knowledge creation is happening at a fast pace these days and it is available in the public domain for free. “What is needed is proper dissemination of this knowledge keeping in mind the huge societal divide over higher education.While 46% of Tamil Nadu's population enrolls for higher education, it is only 19% in West Bengal. We should work towards bringing more and more people within the net of higher education albeit virtually, using the huge amount of data that is available for free, perhaps through virtual universities, which will soon be a reality in education,“ Pai said, stressing on the need to change the traditional outlook towards education and look at creating problem-solvers and not information assimilators.
 
