MYSURU: The railways on Friday scripted history by successfully translocating the 200-year-old   to a place 130 metres from where it was in  , which was once the headquarters of Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan. The shifting makes way for the railway double line project that had hit a roadblock since a decade.

 The railways was assisted by US-based Wolfe and New Delhi-based PSL Engineering in moving the 1,000-tonne armoury using technology.
 
 Though the initial work of shifting the armoury began in October 2014, it gained momentum only recently. The work hastened from January this year after experts from the US and Delhi extended their expertise to the railways.
 
 The   of the armoury, which Tipu used to store explosives, was done between Monday and Friday. On Day 1, the structure was moved by 40m from near Srirangapatna  . On Tuesday and Wednesday, it was further moved by 42m and 18m, respectively. The work was suspended on Thursday to facilitate groundwork. The shifting of the armoury by 30m at 4.40pm on Friday marked the completion of the translocation work.
 
 In the project, said to be the first of its kind in Asia, the experts managed to move the armoury by 130m (100m in one direction and 30m in another). Rs 12.5 crore has been spent on the work. With this, the doubling work on the 1.5km stretch near Cauvery bridge is likely to be taken up shortly. Once the work on the railway line is complete, the travel time between Mysuru and Bengaluru is expcted to reduce by 10-15 minutes. 
 
 A K Gupta, general manager of South Western Railway (SWR), said: “It’s a unique work undertaken in India. I congratulate the entire team which comprised experts from the US, and our railway personnel. The track-doubling work on the 1.5km stretch may be completed by April. After an approval from the commissioner of safety, trains will run on the new line latest by May 15.” Impressed with the work, the GM has awarded Rs 50,000 for the Mysuru construction department.
 
 K Ravichandran, deputy chief engineer (construction), SWR Mysuru, said: “Thanks to the team effort, the ancient monument has been moved by 130m. We have to ensure that the monument is intact, and the related work may taken two more months. We will build a compound wall around it.” Assistant executive engineer Keshavamurthy and junior engineer Jisna strived for the shifting of the monument. Jisna, who is working as the site supervisor for the past three years, started her career at this site.
 
 There was no response when the tenders were invited for the work for the first time. But in the second time, agencies from abroad (with experience of translocation of buildings) participated in the tender under joint-venture arrangements. The work was finally awarded to PSL Engineering (India) and Wolfe (USA).
 
 - R Uday Kumar
 
 
