NAGPUR: While the world wants to ‘listen to the young voices’ in protecting wildlife, youngsters who have chosen the   as a career path are fighting their own battles which often go unheard.

 Though   is being looked on as a good career option, economic unstablity, slow growth, government’s indifference and bureaucratic pressure in the field continues to be plague the young voices and protection of wildlife.
 
 Those who are in it are “purely out of  .” “I don’t mind making less money, I wake up in my quarters surrounded by elephants and rhinos,” says 30-year-old Reetika Maheshwary. Earlier a practicing veterinary physician, Reetika found a liking for wildlife but had to struggle her way in. “I first volunteered with Wildlife Trust of India in its Whale Shark project in Gujarat for two months. I then shifted to Kaziranga National Park in Assam where I worked for a year,” she says.
 
 The biggest challenge she says is the country lacks good full-time courses in wildlife conservation. “In few colleges that offer such courses, there is no faculty,” she adds.
 
 The pay-scale won’t match with the corporate, for some the satisfaction is priceless. “When compared to last five years, more youngsters are coming in this field. If talented and well-versed with the subject, there is space for young voices too,” says young conservationist Vishal Bansod. 
 
 However, young ideas sometimes are driven underground by bureaucracy. “There are times when formalities, paperwork and policies become a hurdle,” says 27-year-old Achintya Tripathi, project officer at WTI. 
 
 He adds that motivated youngsters should be involved more in wildlife conservation. “We not just have fresh perspectives but can also contribute better in field work,” says Tripathi. Youngsters are better adapted to technology too. Adds Maheshwary, “With time, young voices are coming up but we have to struggle to push them. Leaving behind old school methods, youngsters can promote advanced wildlife monitoring making best use of latest technology.”
 
 When it comes to conservation, some feel that the generation is serious but is not getting “what they rightfully deserve”. Says founder of Disha foundation Yadav Tarte, “Young voices often get suppressed by the experienced seniors. Young conservationists are not getting the exposure they should get.”
 
 Funds and exposure come when working on larger or charismatic animals like tigers, says 25-year-old bat researcher Rohit Chakraborty. “This is definitely an underpaid career but another challenge is that it takes time to get stable. Real job prospects begin after one has completed PhD and is already 30. In India, getting funds and donations is also a struggle,” he adds.
 
 Many youngsters just step in because of ‘craze for wildlife’, points out Prafulla Sawarkar, a young education officer with Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). “They enjoy living in forests and travelling till a certain age after which the depression starts due to lack of job prospects. Most of the NGOs are packed and there are hardly any vacancies left. When choosing this field, it is important to have a strong academic backup with relevant courses and in-depth knowledge,” he adds.
 
 
