KOLHAPUR: The lack of co-ordination between civic departments has once again resulted in recently-constructed roads getting damaged for drainage works.

 The   has recently repaired and built several roads in the city, which were damaged in the rains last year. The repair work cost between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 8 lakh per road. 
 
 The work on the bus route in Rajarampuri was completed just 15 days ago. The civic body has spent Rs 6 lakh to repair the road, which is in one of the busiest areas of the city and is crowded at any given time. 
 
 A few days ago, however, the KMC’s drainage department found that the chamber of the drainage pipe passing across the road needs to be repaired. And the recently-built road was dug up to undertake the  .
 
 Usually, the KMC issues public notice before undertaking road construction work, appealing to people to carry out any repairs regarding their private water supply lines. However, the civic administration had failed to give a similar notice to its drainage department. 
 
 Activist   said, “For the past few years we were demanding that a committee should be formed to help co-ordinate all the concerned civic departments before the road construction work starts. The roads damaged due to drainage works are never repaired again. Also, the KMC fails to monitor the local activities which cause damage to roads.”
 
 The activist said, “The KMC should audit the cost of damage taken place due to lack of co-ordination between the departments and the cost should be recovered from the head of the departments.”
 
 As per the road construction manual, for every square metre damage, Rs 700 is required to repair and the cost is spent from the taxes collected from the citizens. Recently, the KMC has sanctioned Rs 40 lakh for repair of the roads damaged due to heavy rains. The decision irked the citizens and activists since the financial responsibility of repairs was of the contractors. 
 
 Municipal commissioner P   also expressed disappointment with the damage to roads caused due to lack of co-ordination. “Co-ordination is expected between the city engineer and the hydraulic engineer. I will ask both of them to form a mechanism to address such issues,” he said. 
 
