INDORE: Chief minister  , taking a jibe at Congress, said the work of the   office in the state was only taken up by BJP.

 “The work of a passport office in the state has been done by our party. The last one was constructed in Bhopal 38 years ago. It was constructed when AB Vajpayee was external affairs minister,” he said.
 
 The office in Bhopal was constructed in 1978. Vajpayee was minister of external affairs in the Morarji Desai government.
 
 “This development has taken place due to constant efforts of the Centre, honorable minister   and  ,” the chief minister said.
 
 Speaker of Lok Sabha, Sumitra Mahajan also said the office was a result of Sushma Swaraj’s dedication.
 
 “Over the years I had approached so many leaders with the demand of a passport office in the city. All gave assurances but no concrete steps were taken. When Mrs Swaraj came took charge, I approached her only once. She assured me the office would be constructed and would personally monitor its progress,” Mahajan said.
 
 
 
 
 INDORE: Minister of state for external affairs ministry retired general VK Singh said that in order to make passport services available to people living across the country, they were planning to collaborate with post offices to provide the services.
 
 “We want to make the system easy for people. With this plan we can use our existing infrastructure to reach maximum people,” Singh said.
 
 He added that he had asked the chief minister to give a list of places where they can extend the services.
 
 “This is a great concept. We will work with the ministry of external affairs and come out with plans to implement the programme in different parts of the state,” the chief minister said.
 
 Officials of the ministry also said there was a need to increase the number of passports issued every year.
 
 “Less than 7 crore people in the country have passports. We make around 1 crore passports every year. We even work on weekends. Expansion of passport offices will be of great help,” said Gyaneshwar Mule, secretary, ministry of external affairs.
 
