CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu-Puducherry division of the   department has unearthed undisclosed income of Rs 1,429 crore in 9 searches conducted between April and June 2017, said   B Murali Kumar.

 This is close to 50% of what the department unearthed in the last financial year. In 2016-17, from 100 searches, I-T investigation wing unearthed Rs 3,210 crore of undisclosed income. Of them, 42 searches were election related as Tamil Nadu assembly election was held in May 2016, he said. In 2015-16, the total undisclosed income detected during 18 searches was only Rs 428 crore, said Kumar.
 
 Speaking at the 157th income tax day celebration at the department headquarters on Monday, Kumar said with better use of information technology tools, the department had been successful in unearthing undisclosed income. “The present searches by the department has been precise and only with confirmed information did we conduct searches and unearth loads of undisclosed income,” Murali Kumar said.
 
 “With better availability of information, the cost of collecting tax has come down and at present it stands at Rs 0.5 for Rs 100. Two years ago, it used to be Rs 4 per Rs 100 tax collected,” he said. The department previously depended on manual information, but with advancement of IT-enabled services, we get confirmed information electronically, the director-general said.
 
 Though there is talk of widespread income tax raids in the air in Tamil Nadu, the director general differed with the view. “Compared to the enlarging tax base, the number of searches we conduct is only minuscule. The department has been able to achieve tax collection target with just 50% of the total sanctioned staff strength,” he said.
 
 The I-T officer attributed the increase in unearthing of undisclosed income to various factors. “It started with the income disclosure scheme, followed by demonetisation, another amnesty scheme called Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and finally amendment to the Anti-Benami Act. All these have contributed to the unearthing of more unaccounted money in the state,” he said. Unlike earlier days, stringent action is taken against tax evaders now. The penalty, in some cases, would amount to 103%, he said.
 
 He said most of the I-T officers were working without expecting any rewards or awards. The only reward such officials get is self-satisfaction of having done a sincere job in unearthing  , he said. Madras high court judge H G Ramesh, highest tax payers in Tamil Nadu-Puducherry region, chartered accountants, senior I-T officials and others participated in the event.
 
