MUMBAI: On Tuesday, within hours as Mumbai began voting,   was buzzing with selfies from excited voters and hashtags to encourage others to step out and get inked.

 While young voters were few at polling booths compared to the seniors, they were busy on social networks like Facebook, Twitter,   and Snapchat. Several first-timers were among those who posted selfies as they walked out after casting their votes. “Cast your vote for the world’s biggest democracy. Be a responsible citizen. Jai Hind #BmcPolls #FirstVote,” posted Priyanka Puri, a Mumbaikar, along with a selfie on Facebook.
 
 Facebook check-ins and hashtags on Twitter soon followed. Trending on Twitter were #VoteKarMumbaikar, #BMCelection, #BMCPolls and #BMCelections2017. By Tuesday evening, about 13,000 people were talking about #Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, putting it on the list of one of the most discussed topics of the day.
 
 Several Mumbaikars used social media to encourage their peers to go out and vote. Chembur resident Francis Joseph wrote on Facebook around noon, “Only 16% voting till 11.30am. Mumbaikars go out and cast your vote now.” Celebrities too took to   with selfies and messages to urge citizens to vote. 
 
 Many took to social media to express their grouse about missing names and mismanagement at booths. “I was denied my constitutional right to vote for BMC election as my name was missing in the voting list after living in Mumbai for 44 years,” said a tweet by citizen,  .
 
 In the evening, when the turnout percentage was announced, citizens became hopeful of the results. “Excited for BMC election results. Hope educated and non addicted and civilized candidates wins. Mumbai should win,” said a tweet by Amit Dumbre. Technology came to the rescue of some voters whose names went missing from the printed lists that were put up at the booths. Vrunda More, a voter at Nehru Nagar booth, was upset after the agents from different parties failed to locate her name and had almost decided to go back. Her hopes were revived when three voter facilitators at the booth gate approached her with their tabs and tried all combinations of her name, with ‘Vrinda’ and ‘Morey’ which eventually worked. 
 
 (Inputs from Chittaranjan Tembhekar)
 
 
