VADODARA: After debating over whether it should empty the Sursagar pond to remove layers of   (PoP) and sludge in it, the   ( ) seems to have found a solution that does away with the need to do so. 

 VMC officials said that emptying the pond would have involved several complications. "To ensure that there were no hiccups during the project, it was decided to use a different technology that involved drilling on the bed of the pond and sucking the sludge or the debris there," said an official. 
 
 He added that equipment that does both the processes simultaneously were also available. Sources added that a bund-like structure may also be prepared in the pond to divide it into two with aquatic life and water being largely filled in one part of it and work being conducted in the other. The civic body has estimated the work to cost it over Rs seven crore.
 
 The plan to empty the pond and then remove the material settled at its bottom had found few takers. The VMC would have had to drain 26 crore liters of water in the pond if it stuck with its original proposal. It had even brought out tenders inviting bids to empty the pond and clean it. But there were no takers for the tenders and the civic body decided to change the technique to be used for cleaning of the pond.
 
 The pond had earned the reputation of being one of the most polluted amongst the municipal corporations in the state. A thick layer of PoP has been deposited at the bottom of the pond thanks to idol immersions that take place in the pond particularly during the Ganpati festivities.
 
 The civic body was all set to beautify the pond and develop it as a recreational place even as little thought was given to cleaning it. The Rs 25crore beautification project was cleared in 2014 and a formal ceremony to kick off work was also performed in October in the same year. The issue of cleaning the pond was taken up seriously only last year and its beautification was put on hold.
 
 Going by the fact that the pond has an area of 65,000 square meters, it would have around 26 crore liters of water in it as it was filed to a height of around four meters. A major challenge in emptying the pond was the fact that Sursagar still has aquatic life.
 
