MELBOURNE: Maybe it was the summer sun which topped 35 degrees Celsius. Or his German opponent, 33-year-old Florian 33-year-old  , who came up against the wall and didn't quite know how to get the ball past, even when it sat on his racket strings. Or maybe, just maybe,   has rediscovered that tenacious thread that runs through his great triumphs. That hard-nosed stubborn streak. The steel in the forehand. The spunky Spaniard has won just once, in 2009, and where if he wins again could make him the only player in the modern era to win every Grand Slam twice -recognised strains of that sticky quality on Tuesday as they stood to first embrace a much-loved champion of the sport. And then applaud.

 Love was in the air then and the 30-year-old Spaniard - legs of a marathoner and heart of bullfighter -came through 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 in just over two hours to set up a second-round meeting with another tricky customer Marcos Baghdatis on Thursday Nadal, who was on top of the rallies, was also the more aggressive player on court. He struck 35 winners, 25 of which came from the forehand side. What might serve him well in his future engagements was his ability to force the error from his opponent with the direction of his forehand. He was getting to the ball early and swinging freely.
 
 Typically, Nadal refused to read into his form or his win, expect to say that he was happy to be back and feel the love of the fans. “If you win, you have the chance to improve little bit,” he said. “That's what I need. I need to improve.”
 
 Novak Djokovic, the six-time Australian Open champion, who is also on the same half of the draw as Nadal, showed what he was capable of in his match-up against Spaniard Fernando Verdasco. The second seed powered to a 6-1, 7-6 (6-4), 6-2 win in 2 hours and 20 minutes, coming back from an early break down in the second set. Among the women, Czech fifth-seed Karolina Pliskova routed Sara Sorribes Torno of Spain 6-2, 6-0; Sixth seeded Slovak Dominika Cibulkova beat Czech Denisia Allertova 7-5, 6-2; Ninthseeded Briton Johanna Konta beat Belgium's Kirsten Flipkens 7-5, 6-2.
 
