JAIPUR: A high voltage drama was witnessed at city’s historic Jaigarh Fort where members of   created ruckus at the set of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’a upcoming movie ‘Padmavati’ and roughed up Bhansali and his crew members on Friday afternoon.

 The incident took place at 12.30 PM when scores of Sena protestors breached the private security arrangements and stormed into the Fort, raising slogans against Bhansali and his under production movie for ‘distorting the historical facts about   of Chittor.’ The protesters then attempted to stop the shoot by vandalizing the movie set.
 
 While the crew members and private guards of the producer tried to stop protesters, one protester pulled up Bhansali’s hairs and roughed him up. “The private security guards of Bhansali formed a ring around him in order to safely escort him out of the chaos, the crew dialed up police helpline number and Amber police reached the spot,” said a police official at the Amer police station.
 
 “The movie depicts love scenes between Rani Padmini of Chittor and invader Alauddin Khilji. This is an outrageous distortion of Rajasthan’s history as Rani Ji self-immolated herself along with other women of the fort when they heard that Khilji is marching ahead to take over the fort,” said Mahipal Makrana, state president of Karni Seena.
 
 He added that the queen of Chittor’s Jauhar (self-immolation) is an act of bravery which is well established fact in state’s history books, “We will not allow anyone to peddle lies and cheat with the honour and dignity of idols at any cost,” he added.
 
 The security guards and protesters clashed with each other and angry protesters broke a TV screen and other equipment on the set. Sena protesters alleged that guards had fired guns shots in the air to disperse the crowd.
 
 The senior police officials, including, deputy commissioner of police (North)   and additional DCP, Sameer Kumar reached the spot to pacify the angry protesters.
 
 The police set-up a meeting between Bhansali and Karni Seena behind closed doors after the incident. “Bhansali said that Seena’s allegations were unfounded as the movie doesn’t depict any such scene between the two, we asked Bhansali if he would like to file and FIR, but he refused,” added a senior official who was part of the meeting.
 
 While the police have arrested five protestors under section 151 of CrPc (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences). According to the police, Bhansali did not complained about any incident where he was roughed up.
 
 “He did not tell us about any such incident. He has the legal permission to shoot the movie here,” Bhomia told TOI.
 
