PUNE: The state archaeology department has granted ‘protection status’ to seven stray forts in Maharashtra — Sangramdurg or Chakan fort in Pune, Yashwantgad (Redi) fort in Sindhudurg and Bandkot in Ratnagiri, among others, with plans to protect 48 more.

 Built by the   in the 18th century, many of these forts are part of over 56 stray monuments in the state that come neither under the state archaeology department nor the Archaeological Survey of India ( ). There are over 400 forts in the state, with only 90 currently under protection.
 
 Tejas Garge, director,  , told TOI that through Maharashtra’s Fort Conservation Committee, the department had proposed protection to close to 56 forts and temples, which are currently neither under it nor the ASI. “Of the 56 monuments, seven have been granted protection status, while the remaining 48 may also get this status in future,” said Garge.
 
 Garge said that the procedure to seek protection for monuments is long, as revenue records from the concerned district collectorates have to be obtained. “In most cases, the monuments are under the ownership of the government. But there are some cases in which we need the transfer of ownership,” he said.
 
 Most of the monuments for which the department has sought protection status belong to the period between 14 and 18 centuries. They were built by the Marathas or other Islamic dynasties ruling Deccan then.
 
 Sachin Joshi, who is part of Maharashtra’s Fort Conservation Committee, told TOI that the committee’s original proposal was to secure protection status for a total of 83 monuments in state. “However, seven were granted that status, while procedure for the remaining monuments is still in pipeline,” he said.
 
 Joshi, meanwhile, said the government recently increased the powers of the panel, headed by state education minister Vinod Tawde. He said the committee was constituted in 2015 to ensure that fort conservation in state was conducted as per archaeological norms.
 
 “However, fort conservation in state is currently being carried out in a haphazard manner. Recently, two temples in the Rangana Fort in Sahyadri mountain on the boundary of Kolhapur and Sindhudurg districts, were defaced with cement. The Kuldurg fort in Kolhapur and Rangana Fort are perhaps the best examples of defacement due to illegal construction activities,” he said.
 
 Joshi said that the committee members had discussed the issue at length with the authorities of the state department of Archaeology and Museums in a recent meeting. “We also took up the issue of plans to build a five-star hotel on  , an island with a fort located in south of Mumbai. The issue of haphazard conservation undertaken in   fort was also raised, which the authorities agreed to rectify,” said Joshi.
 
