 :   of the   on Tuesday stayed all further proceedings regarding the acquisition of 60 acres on the outskirts of Vijayawada for the   station and depot to be used by  . AMRC is the Special Purpose Vehicle that is executing the Vijayawada Metro Rail project.

 The judge was dealing with a case filed by Vasantha and others, who complained that the authorities had invoked a GO issued in January 2015 to avoid Social Impact Assessment (SIA) and food security clauses in the new Land Acquisition Act. This GO was issued based upon an ordinance issued by the Union government in December 2014 and had lapsed long ago, the petitioners contended. They complained that based upon a lapsed ordinance and a defunct GO, their land in Nidamanuru village of Vijayawada rural mandal was being taken away by the authorities.
 
 The judge had earlier called for a response from the authorities. The metro rail authorities said that the notification may have mentioned the 2015 GO, but the social impact assessment had been done and such a minor technical issue cannot be raised by the petitioners to stall such an important project. 
 
 However, the judge wanted the response from the Land Acquisition officer who issued the notification. He said that all further proceedings are to be stayed as the very issuance of section 11 of preliminary notification has been challenged. The case will be heard next Monday.
 
 As per the original schedule, works on the Vijayawada Metro was to begin in the last quarter of 2017. The Metro is to have two corridors. The first corridor is between Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) and Penamaluru (12.76km) and the second between PNBS and Nidamanuru (13.27km). 
 
 Interestingly, works are to be taken up on the second corridor first and be completed in two years, after which the works on the first corridor will be taken up.
 
 The AMRC has been in talks with various external funding agencies, including European Investment Bank, World Bank and other Asian agencies, for the funding for the project. AMRC officials said the quantum of funding that would be provided by each agency will be decided at a later stage. 
 
 “We are expecting a total loan of Rs 4,000 crore. How much each company will sanction will be known in a month or two,” a senior official of AMRC said. 
 
 It may be recalled that the AMRC terminated its negotiations with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) on August 31 this year since the Japanese funding agency was delaying the release of funds.
 
