HYDERABAD: After   that they would consider the  , while returning the stolen gold, Muthoot Finance has now allegedly gone back on its word, resulting in a brawl with angry customers.

 Customers who paid a visit on Saturday after receiving a call from the   said that officials are now asking them to consider the net weight of the gold. “When I went to Muthoot, they said that they will even bear making charges and will return us our ornaments. After receiving a message from Muthoot Finance, I visited the finance company again on Saturday. Now they are asking us to consider the net weight of the gold lost,“ said G Bhaskar Reddy.
 
 “Officials spoke very rudel when we questioned why robberies happen only in their company. They simply said that we should not have pledged our gold at Muthoot when we don't trust them,“ said Bhaskar, adding that the company lodged a `false' FIR against them for `forcefully' entering the company and for assaulting an employee.Six persons posing as CBI officials carried out one of the biggest hiests at Muthoot's RC Puram branch on December 28.
 
 Last week, the   said members of the inter-state gang were arrested from a hideout in Latur, Maharashtra. Cops seized 3.5 kg of gold and Rs 5 lakh cash from them.
 
 Meanwhile, Muthoot officials said that the customers should be happy that they are at least trying to return the gold even when they have not received back any lost gold. “Some people are trying to become leaders by using this.On one hand, we haven't received any seized gold and are still trying to give back gold to customers. They can't get everything they want.How can they expect us to give gross weight,“ said Santosh Kumar, chief manager, Muthoot Finance. “Some five customers behaved rudely with our employees. We have CCTV footage to prove the same, We are going to press legal charges against them,“ he added.
 
 RC Puram police said that an FIR has been lodged against few customers under sections 448, 323, 504, and 506 of the CRPC for trespassing, criminal intimidation and insult intended to provoke breach of peace.
 
 Customers against whom an FIR has been filed are planning to file a petition against Muthoot and are set to meet senior officials on Tuesday.
 
 “We did not trespass into their office. They are the ones who called us. And, when the robbery occurred, the manager in written assured us that gross weight would be considered while returning the gold. We will go to SP for justice,“ Bhaskar said.
 
