Vegetarians khush huye! Sure! Over the years, we have all loved our veggie joints: South Indian (from A Rama Nayak’s Udipi to Café Madras), Gujarati thali (  to  ), homestyle (Soam, Swati), multi-cuisine (Cream Centre, Spesso, Vedge), Five-Star (Tuskers). But now, a new wave is upon us. And having tracked the Mumbai restaurant scene through my 37 books, all I can say is that it is a welcome change… I refer to Modern Indian vegetarian restaurants. Verandah 11 in Fort serves up a mixed experience. It was packed when we dined there.

 
 
 Wedged into the cramped Fort area, it’s simply and functionally done up with table, chair, benches and mirrors. Dimly lit.
 
 
 
 Be prepared for a tongue-tickling mix of modern with traditional. Rasam infused with coconut, Pumpkin Soup with a garlic kick-started our dinner flavourfully. Not to forget the “magic napkin”, which rose up when water was poured on it. Undhiyu did a successful spicy dandiya with the Mexican taco. Well-made rotis served on a haathgadi, crisp   (zucchini chips) delighted. A smattering of Lebanese, Pasta and Pizza (try the mushroom basil one). Freshly-baked Monster Cookie (not Modern Indian) but warm, yummy gooey and chewy.
 
 
 
 Overrun by kids and too noisy. Oversweet   cheesecake and Chocolate Golgappas jarred the taste buds. Ditto for Pao Bhaji with peas and Honey Pumpkin Kulcha with garlic dip.
 
 
 
 I have a big fat soft corner for family-run restaurants and young entrepreneurs, like 32-year-old Harsh Parekh who started his career as a steward in Sukh Sagar. He went on to start off sports bar ventures and finally opened Verandah (named because of its long room shape) 11 (because it’s his wedding anniversary and his wife is involved in the restaurant, too). However, while the presentation of most of the dishes delights, the taste blurs in a few and in some, there is innovation just for the sake of it. The noise levels need to be reduced. It was packed, so obviously it has caught the fancy of vegetarians looking for novelty.
 
