BARNALA: Ever since the   government started the concept of   nearly 11 months ago to provide various services near their place and in a timely manner, the people of the state are coming forward in availing the service. District   of the state has topped in fast delivery system through Sewa Kendras. 

 After the discontinuation of Suwidha Centres, Sewa Kendras also Known as Unified Citizen Service Delivery Centres(UCSDC) started operating across Punjab from August 12, 2016. All services earlier provided by suwidha kendras were shifted to newly created Sewa kendras which were established both in urban and rural areas to take government service delivery to the doorsteps of citizens. 
 
 These Sewa Kendras are responsible for delivery of 81 services to the citizens, which include 57 online and 24 offline services. A total of 23,12,261 applications were filed in all 22 districts of Punjab for availing various services and nearly 10% at 2,25,100 are pending for disposal on July 7. The Barnala district however has pendency of only 1.18% as the district got 67356 applications and 65695 of those applications have been disposed and 867 applications are pending within timeline. Out of 867, 794 applications are pending beyond timeline.
 
 Barnala Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that nearly 3 months back Barnala district had about 4500 applications pending beyond timeline which with pendency of 5.5% and it was ranked third. To bring down the pendency beyond timeline, weekly meetings with officials from various departments were held wherein they were informed of the number of applications pending beyond timeline against each officer and directed to dispose them off immediately. The sewa kendra employees were provided extra training session so that minimum mistakes are made while doing data entry at the time when citizen applies for a service. Many applications were pending because of some missing form or missing information in the application itself for which a drive was launched to call each such application to rectify the error. A dedicated team of 3 operators were setup who used to call each and every such application whose application was stuck due to want of some document of some information. A part from this, approximately 200 Change Request Forms (CRFs) were filled to weed out data entry errors where a correction of some information is required”.
 
 Thori added we aim to bring down the pendency to less than 1% in next two weeks and maintain it within that limit. Bringing efficiency in Sewa Kendra service delivery is important because almost 70% of footfall in   and   office is to apply for service through sewa kendras.
 
