KOCHI: Corporation council on Saturday decided to remove all the illegal kiosks and makeshift shops that affect the smooth movement of vehicles and pedestrians in city. 

 The local body had given licence to only 140 kiosks and makeshift shops so far and rest has been functioning illegally.
 
 Councillors also pointed out that many kiosks are not functioning in the places where they were allotted space. Mayor   said, "The kiosks, which shifted functioning from the places allotted to them will be brought back to the allotted space. Besides, many eateries selling biriyani, bhel puri and other food items on road sides, will also be removed since it raise health concerns. Health standing committee chairperson has been entrusted with the task of removing these eateries."
 
 The council also discussed about a contempt case pending against the local body in the high court regarding the implementation of radio frequency identification device (RFID) in advertisement boards by the government agency Keltron. The steps for implementing the RFID as part of the Hoarding management system were started in 2011. The local body reached an agreement with the agency to implement the project.
 
 "As per the agreement, 50% of the amount- Rs 45 lakh need to be paid to Keltron for the supply of the equipment and the rest after implementing the system. The finance committee also gave permission to give the amount, but the local audit opposed it. Keltron need to assemble 50% of the equipment to get the project deal without entering the tender procedures. But it was found that the government agency purchased the equipment from Bengaluru-based MaxRad company. This resulted in local body refusing to give the amount to Keltron and forcing MaxRad approach the high court," secretary   told the council.
 
 So far the project could not be implemented owing to the issue. The court allowed in favour of the company and directed the corporation to give the amount as per the agreement. She said the company misled the court saying the local body implemented the project and they need full amount of Rs 70.82 lakh. The council decided to file a review petition in the court.
 
 The council also discussed about taking over the land where Kokers Theatre in   is standing.
 
