HYDERABAD: Roughly two months after the southern bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) delivered its verdict on the SRDP-KBR Park case, Telangana officials on Saturday decided to revise the Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) of the national park yet again. This time between three and 26 metres.

 The proposal, according to those present at the high-level meeting at Secretariat, will be sent to the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) shortly for its consent.
 
 “Keeping in mind the concerns of people and the interest of the national park, it has been decided the ESZ will be fixed between three and 28 metres. Once the MoEF agrees with our proposal, we will make it official. Subsequently, the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) can be implemented,“ said a senior   official in the know of things.
 
 The process of forwarding the new proposal to New Delhi will take about 10 days, the official added.
 
 It was in May this year that the NGT, after a year of regular hearings, directed the state to first fix the ESZ of Kasu Brahmananda Reddy (KBR) national park before going ahead with the multilevel flyover project. At the time of the judgment, the state had floated a proposal with the Centre suggesting that the mandatory ESZ be reduced to 'zero metres' in line with   in Chennai. The move had led to widespread anguish among the city's green brigade. They said the revision would damage the park beyond redemption and pose a serious threat to the expansive flora and fauna that it holds.
 
 “We have taken into account all such adversities while floating the new ESZ proposal. As part of the new project design, the flyovers planned along Maharaja Agrasen Junction (Road No 12 junction) and Cancer Hospital Junction (Road No 10) will be dropped. The park will in no way be affected around these areas,“ said another official on condition of anonymity.
 
 “To maintain a balance, we have now decided to use only seven acres of the total 25 acres of land around the park that was initially earmarked for the SRDP,“ the official added.
 
 Green activists, however, aren't convinced. Questioning the whole purpose of constructing multi-level flyovers, they said that ascertaining the extent of damage to KBR Park will be possible only when the government cle arly lays out its SRDP design in front of the public.
 
 “I don't know why we need so many flyovers when there is already a Metro route designed around the area. These government decisions cannot be trusted. Let them give us some clarity over how they intend to roll out SRDP, only then can we comment on it,“ said environmentalist   who has been opposing the multi-crore project tooth and nail from the start.
 
 The reaction of members of Hyderabad Rising, the citizens' collective fighting to save KBR Park, wasn't very different. In a statement on Saturday evening, the group wrote: “We have already lost about 30 acres of this national forest to build the current road around it. Over the years, the width of our KBR Park has already been compromised and we are left with a bare minimum to buffer the parkforest. Negotiating this is purely massaging our egos to explain we have done our bit of being thoughtful. It does not serve any function whatsoever.“
 
