LUCKNOW: Former chief minister   will be guarded by 189   personnel, the most elaborate security dispensation awarded to any ex-CM in UP at present.   is the fifth former UP   who has been accorded Z plus cover in UP. Besides Z plus, the chief of   also continues to be NSG protectee.

 Apart from close to two dozen black cat commandos of NSG, 24 highly trained UP police Cobra commandos will be deputed to guard Akhilesh round-the-clock in three shifts. The set of 24 have trained along with NSG men at its Manesar facility. As the CM, Akhilesh was guarded by 417 security personnel. Work on pruning his security started from March 12, a day after his party lost the state elections. His revised security apparatus was finally approved by the home department on Thursday. 
 
 The government decided to depute one Addl SP and one DySP-rank officer to oversee the paraphernalia which will cover Akhilesh’s residence and guard him when is on the move. A PAC platoon will be deployed at his house as watchers at all the entry and exit points. An escort gypsy will be provided by Lucknow police.
 
 In Uttar Pradesh, 417 security personnel are deputed to guard chief minister while 190 personnel are deployed to protect the governor. Security arrangements of former CMs and other dignitaries is reviewed by high-powered committee every six months. Principal secretary of home department, DGP and ADG of security headquarters are part of this committee.
 
 The government decided to keep aside 150 policemen, 32 home guards and seven anti-sabotage team members for Akhilesh. Akhilesh's security paraphernalia will almost be double of what is accorded to his father and former CM Mulayam Singh Yadav, BSP leader and ex-CM Mayawati, BJP leaders and ex-CMs Rajnath Singh and Kalyan Singh, who all are Z plus protectees.
 
 About 105 personnel are deployed to guard Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati while close to 57 UP policemen protect Rajnath Singh. Apart from five former CMs and governor Ram Naik, Kanpur MP and Rajya Sabha MP, Murli Manohar Joshi and Vinay Katiyar are two others from the state who get Z plus cover. The two are given security due to threat to their life. Both of them are facing trial in the Babri Masjid demolition case.
 
 
