MADURAI: For centuries, sparrows have co-existed with human beings. This tiny bird even finds mention in the Book of Psalms: ‘Even the   has found a home and the swallow a nest for herself where she may lay her young – even your altars O Lord!’ However, rapid urbanization in the past two decades has threatened this co-existence and forced sparrows to migrate from city areas. 

 In view of this, the students of   conducted a sparrow counting exercise on Monday to observe ‘World Sparrow Day’. The students found that the birds are now limiting their presence to the outskirts of the city. They have withdrawn from the old city areas and even given nesting boxes kept for them a skip.
 
 The enthusiasts spotted over 100 sparrows at   and Sangeet Nagar. They also spotted sparrows in good number in Y Othakadai,  , Rayapalayam, Kandai in Thirumangalam area and Usilampatti.
 
 “We had kept nesting boxes a few years ago. Once they started nesting, we provided food crumbs and water. Though hesitant at the beginning, the sparrows soon started coming and are now present in our entire street,” said Keren Judy, a commerce professor at American College who resides at Sangeet Nagar.
 
 Nature enthusiasts attributed the loss of habitat as the major reason for the disappearance of sparrows from city areas. Sparrows earlier had a lot of food available in city areas and they could nest in holes and under the tiles of old houses. However, as food items are now packaged and houses have been modernized, the birds have been left without food and shelter.
 
 Indiscriminate use of pesticides and insecticides have also affected the sparrow population as the young ones require worms and insects while growing up, though adult birds feed on grains. “The loss of habitat and food sources has affected sparrow population. Our efforts to improve the population have yielded good results on the outskirts, but they are yet to make their presence felt again in city areas,” said M Rajesh, assistant professor of Zoology and convener of  .
 
 On Monday, the club organised a human chain outside the college where students donning sparrow masks stood on the road to sensitise the public. Masks were also distributed to six schools in the city and the outskirts to create interest among school students on sparrow conservation.
 
 Finding the chirp
 
 Around 20 sparrows were spotted on the outskirts of city in areas like SS Colony, HMS colony, Jaihindpuram, Palanganatham, Koodal Nagar, Park Town and Oomachikulam
 
 Same number was spotted at Paravai, Varichiyur, Samayanallur, Kadachanenthal and Sakkimangalam
 
 100 sparrows spotted at Sellur and also at Sangeet Nagar
 
 100 sparrows spotted at Melur and Y Othakadai
 
 
