LUCKNOW: The   spent over Rs 15 crore on holding programmes to distribute unemployment   worth over Rs 20 crore. This was stated in the   report on General and Social Sector for the year ended March 31, 2016, tabled in Vidhan Sabha on Thursday. The CAG report pointed out that the expenditure of over Rs 15 crore made in organising functions was avoidable as the scheme had a provision of transferring unemployment allowances directly into the bank accounts of the benefeciaries.

 According to the CAG report, the state government launched the unemployment allowances scheme in May 2012 providing that the payment was to be made on quarterly basis in saving account opened by an eligible candidate in a nationalised bank or in kshetriya gramin bank, details of which were to be filled in the application form of scheme and by bank authorities.
 
 Scrutiny of records of the Director, Training and Employment UP, revealed that the department distributed an amount of Rs 20.58 crore to 1,26,521   persons as allowance by organising functions in 69 districts during the year 2012-13.
 
 CAG said in the report that Rs 6.99 crore along was spent on transportation of beneficiaries to places where functions were organised, while Rs 8.07 crore was spent on seating arrangement, refreshments, etc.
 
 The expenditure on organising such functions was avoidable in view of the fact that the payment of unemployment allowance could have been easily put into bank accounts of beneficiaries without incurring any expenditure, the CAG report said.
 
 The state government in its reply in September, 2016 stated that expenditure incurred on distribution of cheques was as per instructions issued by the government. CAG stated that the reply was not tenable as provision of transportation of such large number of beneficiaries was not envisaged in the scheme guidelines, 2012. CAG in its report stated that unemployment allowances could have been credited easily in bank account of beneficiaries as bank details such as name of bank, the branch, account number and IFSC code as filled in by beneficiaries in the application form.
 
 The government during discussion said opening account in nationalised bank was mandatory as per scheme rules and payment through bank account was not binding. The functions led to extra expenditure of Rs 15.06 crore which cannot be justified and shows complete lack of financial propriety and concern for saving public money, the CAG concluded. 
 
 
