NAGPUR:   has made it a habit of defeating senior players more often than not. The supremely talented city shuttler swept aside several experienced campaigners to stamp his authority in style in the   held recently at the District Sports Complex in Amravati.

 The 15-year-old lad knocked out former Nagpur district champion   and   to storm into the final. He was scheduled to clash with multiple Nagpur district champion   but the veteran gave a walkover, paving way for Rohan to emerge as men’s singles champion.
 
 A Standard VIII student of Centre Point School, Katol Road, Rohan received cash prize of Rs 7,000 and a glittering trophy.
 
 As expected, the women’s singles crown was claimed by Vaishanvi Bhale. The winner of All India Senior Ranking badminton tournament at Bareilly last year, Vaishnavi trounced her practice partner Anjali Kshirsagar in a one-sided final. Vaishnavi completed double crown by bagging the women’s doubles title with Priyanka Pillay.
 
 The men’s doubles final was won by Ajay Dayal and Jayendra Dhole after they overcame the father-son duo of Kiran Makode and Vinay Makode.
 
 The seasoned campaigners Dayal-Dhole duo also triumphed in the men’s 35 plus doubles category.
 
 The mixed doubles title was won by Varad Gajbhiye and Priyanka Pillay. They ousted Amravati pair of Amit Gedam and Pallavi Gogade in the summit clash.
 
 In the U-15 boys singles final, local boy Saurabh Chultani surprised Nagpur’s Sarthak Pakhmode to clinch the title.
 
 Nagpur’s Krishna Soni and Devika Kawale reigned supreme in the U-10 and U-15 girls singles, respectively.
 
 RESULTS
 
 U-10 girls: Krishna Soni (Nagpur) bt Malhar Mahalle (Amravati).
 
 U-15 girls: Devika Kawale (Nagpur) bt Bhargavi Rambad (Nagpur).
 
 U-15 boys: Saurabh Chultani (Amravati) bt Sarthak Pakhmode (Nagpur).
 
 Men’s singles: Rohan Gurbani (Nagpur) bt Jayendra Dhole (Nagpur).
 
 Men’s doubles: Ajay Dayal-Jayendra Dhole (Nagpur) bt Kiran Makode-Vinay Makode (Nagpur).
 
 Women’s singles: Vaishnavi Bhale (Nagpur) bt Anjali Kshirsagar (Nagpur).
 
 Women’s doubles: Vaishnavi Bhale-Priyanka Pillay (Nagpur) bt Gauri Mehare-Pallavi Gogate (Amravati).
 
 Mixed doubles: Varad Gajbhiye-Priyanka Pillay (Nagpur) bt Amit Gedam-Pallavi Gogade (Amravati).
 
 Men’s 35 plus doubles: Jayendra Dhole-Ajay Dayal (Nagpur) bt Bharat Bulghat-Manoj Wanjani (Bhandara).
 
 
