BENGALURU: Two and a half weeks before 125   start operations, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has finalized the catering agencies which will dish out meals at subsidized rates.

 “We have chosen two   — ChefTalk Food & Hospitality Services Private Limited and Rewards. Based in Whitefield, ChefTalk provides food to schools, colleges and offices. It serves more than 70,000 meals a day to corporate and multi-national company employees. Rewards, an NGO, has operations in three states and handles more than 2.5 lakh mid-day meals. Both the agencies are big players and are more than capable of handling the job,” said Manoj Rajan, special commissioner, BBMP, who’s in charge of the Indira Canteen project.
 
 The Palike had earlier said each agency could cater to a maximum of five assembly constituencies, implying that six caterers would be needed for 27 constituencies. However, as per the present agreement, ChefTalk will operate in 15 constituencies, while Rewards will serve 12. 
 
 “About 10 companies participated in the bidding process and five were shortlisted. Rewards had the lowest bid, so it was given five constituencies. Of the others, only ChefTalk was willing to match the bid, so we decided to give them additional constituencies,” added Rajan.
 
 As per the agreement, BBMP will pay the caterers Rs 32 for a day’s meals per person (Rs 9.50 for breakfast, Rs 11.25 for lunch and Rs 11.25 for dinner). The amount paid by the customer — Rs 25 per person (Rs 5 for breakfast, Rs 10 for lunch and Rs 10 for dinner) — will also go to the company. “We are expecting about 3 lakh customers per day across all 198 wards,” said Rajan. 
 
 BBMP officials said each assembly segment will have a centralized kitchen. “Each canteen will serve food to the first 300 customers per session i.e breakfast, lunch and dinner. No parcel service will be available. Each customer can buy one coupon at a time. For another coupon, one has to queue up again,” said an official. 
 
 Facing land and logistical problems, the government was forced to revise its earlier plan of opening all 198 canteens on August 15. Now, 125 canteens will open on Independence Day, while the remaining 73 are scheduled to begin operations on October 2.
 
 
