NEW DELHI: An   in Mohali on Tuesday issued a   against Jaish-e-Mohammed chief  , his brother Abdul Rauf Asghar and two handlers of the   Shahid Latif and Kashif Jan, and asked them to appear before it on March 9.

 The NIA has already chargesheeted Azhar and the others in the case and red corner notices have been issued against them even as the government is seeking UN sanctions against the JeM chief.
 
 The proclamation notice, which was issued under Section 82 of Criminal Procedure Code, will have to be published in newspapers, including in the country where they are believed to be hiding, sources in the probe agency said.
 
 The NIA, after wrapping up investigation in the Pathankot case, had filed a chargesheet in December against Azhar and three others for plotting the strike that left seven security forces personnel dead and 37 injured.
 
 The chargesheet also hinted at lax security at the IAF base and said the four terrorists -- Nasir Hussain, Hafiz Abu Bakar, Umar Farooq and Abdul Qayoom -- all Pakistani nationals and owing allegiance to JeM, had entered the premises at 8.40 am on January 1 and entrenched themselves in a drain and an adjacent shed belonging to Military Engineering Services.
 
 The terrorists were engaged in a gunfight only at 3.20 am on January 2, 19 hours after they had sneaked into the IAF facility.
 
 The chargesheet is part of documents used by India to advocate its case for imposing UN sanctions against Azhar, released in 1999 in exchange for passengers of IC-814 Indian Airlines plane, which was hijacked by terrorists.
 
 India, in an unusual move, had allowed a Pakistani team, which included an officer of its notorious spy agency ISI, to conduct a probe at the IAF base. The team was given necessary documents and allowed to question many people except for security personnel involved in the counter-offensive against the terrorists.
 
 However, the Pakistani team, upon its return, claimed that India neither shared “much evidence” nor allowed it to interrogate the security personnel involved in neutralising the perpetrators of the attack.
 
