NOIDA: Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had skipped his visit to Noida last December owing to the “Noida jinx” but visited the neighbouring Ghaziabad district. The Samajwadi Party, however, suffered a massive defeat in the latest polls and its tally got reduced to 47 seats from the 224 seats in the previous assembly. 

 Local residents and businessmen, who voiced their opinion on Sunday, said that there is no such ‘jinx’ and that chief ministers should visit Noida. Akhilesh Yadav had a chance to visit the city in the first week of December as part of his ‘vikas rath yatra.’ The local administration had made preparations to host the event at Noida stadium. 
 
 The CM was to inaugurate some infrastructure projects and also address people. However Akhilesh later cancelled his visit and inaugurated the projects through video conference from Lucknow. In fact, the former CM avoided visiting Noida in his entire five-year tenure.
 
  The ‘Noida jinx’ has been a metaphor for bad luck for Uttar Pradesh chief ministers, as those who visited Noida assumingly lost the following election. This superstition started in 1988 when Vir Bahadur Singh visited Noida and lost the elections. In the intervening years, N D Tiwari, Kalyan Singh and Mulayam Singh Yadav also suffered the same fate.
 
 The trend continued till as recently as 2011 when Mayawati came to Noida to inaugurate the Dalit Prerna Sthal and then lost the assembly polls. The local people feel that this is completely a superstition. Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurship Association, said that ‘Noida jinx’ is a myth.
 
  “This assembly election has completely shattered all the political equations based on caste and religion. There is no such thing that the CM will lose next election if he/she visits Noida. Noida is an economic hub and the show window of Uttar Pradesh. It gives maximum revenue to the state exchequer. The CM must come to Noida and oversee the development and connect with people,” Malhan said. N P Singh, president, FONRWA, said that only superstitious people think about superstition. “There is no fact in the ‘Noida Jinx.’ The UP CM should visit Noida and prove this superstition wrong. I suggest if the Noida MLA Pankaj Singh or Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma be made chief minister. As they are from Noida, they will obviously visit the city,” Singh said. 
 
 The residents feel CM’s visit will help government in Lucknow connect better with a constituency that relates more with Delhi.
 
