CHENNAI: Optimisation in business parlance means minimising operational cost and achieving a net increase in revenue. In the case of  , the Greater Chennai Corporation’s optimisation drive has not only brought the project’s marginal revenue tumbling down but also affected the quality of  

 Though it took off to an impressive start, Amma canteens’ decline over the past two years has been rapid. Of late, the brainchild of former chief minister   has been affected by, among other reasons, declining patronage, mounting debts and accusations of pilferage.
 
 While corporation officials maintain that Amma canteen is a not-for-profit initiative, the rate at which the local body’s funds are drying up is forcing the administration to sit up and take notice. According to officials, the civic body will write off losses worth Rs 75.77 lakh incurred by the canteens during the one week period of mourning for J Jayalalithaa, between December 6 and 12, when the canteens supplied food free of cost. 
 
 “On any given day, the best performing canteens in a ward can make up to one-third of the operating cost,” said an official. Some of these “best performing” canteens are those operating in hospitals where the demand remains high.
 
 Under former mayor Saidai S Duraisamy, the corporation tried to double the number of canteens per ward. This move, coupled with falling demand, affected the quality of food served.
 
 In a recent review meeting, a senior state minister flayed the corporation for declining food quality. “We received instructions to address the quality issues because the minister received several complaints,” said a source.
 
 Why is the quality dipping? “When it (canteens) was launched, we didn’t hold back on purchasing flour and dal to make idlis,” said an official. But this extravagance did not last. Declining patronage meant supply was exceeding demand. “Procurement went down and the proportion was fiddled with. Any half decent cook will tell you that if the ratio of flour to dal is not maintained, then you can’t make soft idlis,” the official added.
 
 Optimisation has also brought to table the problem of pilferage. Senior officials admitted to receiving several complaints that canteen workers sell food to establishments outside. But this is happening so that “targets can be met”, said a source. “We have reduced the number of workers per canteen from the initial 18 to about 10 or 12 women now. There are instructions to roll back on workers in under-performing canteens,” an official said.
 
 A canteen is judged under-performing when the required number of idlis, chapatis and rice items are not sold. Therefore, women workers sell the excess food to small eateries to meet the day’s target. “Else, her job is in jeopardy,” the official added.
 
 The pressure to add footfalls has also dissolved the canteen’s policy of giving away free food. When it launched, the day’s leftover would be distributed among destitutes in the locality. “Then people began to wait around the canteen’s premise till it was late in the day to get free food. We have asked workers to dump excess food and not donate it,” an official said.
 
 Apart from the mounting dues, sources in the civil supplies department, which   at one rupee per kilogram for the city’s canteens, told TOI that it needs to increase the selling price as the present rate was not “sustainable”.
 
