MANGALURU: The state government is studying interim reported presented by the   on   property in Karnataka. At the same time, steps have been taken to tighten laws pertaining to these properties and rules framed for its protection. The government will act against anyone found to have encroached on Wakf properties irrespective of their status and standing in society, noted  , minister for primary and secondary education, and wakf on Saturday.

 In an informal chat with TOI, Sait said then chief minister D V Sadananda Gowda had directed Upalokayukta to study the report submitted by  , then chairman of   and Upalokayukta has since then submitted an interim report. “While the government wanted to act on this interim report, and place it before both houses of legislature, the   wanted Anwar Manippady’s full report to be tabled in the house,” he said.
 
 A PIL before the court too saw the court direct that Anwar’s report be tabled in the house, he said, adding the government could not do so for the report per se was technically and legally not viable. “As per section 10 of Karnataka State Minorities Commission Act, the Commission is constituted by chairman and the members and one man cannot be the commission,” Sait said adding he is fully aware that BJP will strive to score political brownie points in an election year.
 
 Whether right or wrong, the government has rejected Manippady’s report and instead given more teeth to the Wakf (Amendment) Act, 2013. As a result, under section 54 of the Act, the state government is now empowered to reclaim encroached wakf property and under section 52 (a) file criminal proceedings against people doing so. The same Act also permit government to set up multi-member tribunals that will act as quasi-judicial bodies to deal with encroachments.
 
 Government has already set up one multi-member tribunal for south covering Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions and another multi-member tribunal north for   and Kalaburagi divisions. These tribunals will act as circuit benches and go to places in their respective jurisdiction where cases are filed with regard to wakf properties. In addition, the government has proposed setting up a special task force headed by an officer of the rank of SP to protect Wakf property, he said.
 
 In addition, the government has also directed that a study be conducted on wakf property given as ‘inam’ and as ‘donation’. “We want to find out exact extent of inam and donation land lost to encroachment by private vested interests across Karnataka as well as their encroachment or use by government and autonomous government bodies for various public utilities such as bus station, hospitals, and how should such encroachments be viewed,” the minister said.
 
 The government is also determining the legality of sale of land by muthavalis (caretakers of Wakf property), Sait said, adding he has conducted meetings with muthavalis in 12 districts to inform them about their role in safeguarding Wakf property. “We are instilling sense of what Wakf is and public commitment that stakeholders should have in safeguarding Wakf property through these meetings with sole intention of protecting religious property for the community,” he said.
 
