BENGALURU: From a group of aggressive players who captured the imagination with their remarkable run to within touching distance of the trophy last year,   have fallen heavily. The first team to bow out in the group stage itself, they will want to forget the 10th edition of the   in a hurry.

 Virat Kohli and his men have stuttered and stumbled all through this season. The five-wicket defeat to  's   on Monday snuffed out even the slim mathematical chance last year's finalists had of making the play-offs. Kohli, who returned to action at home against Mumbai Indians last month, arrived for the pre-match presser for that game with a serene smile and positive intent but was left biting his nails in the dug-out for the better part of their campaign thus far.
 
 Eight losses in 11 outings was bad enough, but what will hurt even more is the manner in which their batting line-up has crumbled time after time. Last year, RCB reached the final on the strength of their batting - Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers and Chris Gayle contributing regularly and in unison -but this season, they have been restricted to less than 100 on two occasions. Just how bad their batting has been can be gauged from the nightmare at the Eden Gardens: they were bowled out for 49 against the Kolkata Knight Riders, the lowest team total ever in  .
 
 While the losses tell a story, the team's struggles suggest another tale of a unit which has relied heavily on its 'big three' to put numbers on the board. When the top failed, most of the others failed to stand up for the count. Last year, in their first 11 matches, RCB had piled up 2,086 runs, with their top-order slamming four centuries. In sharp contrast, the centuries dried up this time around and they only managed 1,407 runs, averaging 140 (from 10 innings after one match was abandoned) per innings compared to 189 the previous season.
 
 On Friday, when RCB walk into their erstwhile fortress - the M Chinnaswamy stadium - for their penultimate home game of the season, the sea of red which is always bursting at the seams will still be there to back them against Kings XI Punjab. But can the team pick itself up and at least sign off on a high? 
 
  
 
 Even as India celebrated their Test series win against Australia, RCB were dealt a double blow. Skipper Kohli picked up a shoulder injury which kept him out of the tournament for the first two weeks and KL Rahul, another key player last season, was ruled out entirely with a shoulder injury. Long before that, lead pacer Mitchell Starc had pulled out, de Villiers' had picked up a back injury and with the runs off Gayle's bat drying up, the season was always going to be a challenge.
 
 
 Given the injury concerns and varied playing conditions through the 11 matches, RCB altered their playing lineup for every match. In fact, of the 19 who have taken the field for RCB this season, only   and Yuzvendra Chahal have featured in all matches.
 
 
 When a team gets off to a good start, it is half the job done. In RCB's case, meaningful starts have been few and far between. Gayle, Kohli,  , Shane Watson, Travis Head and Vishu Vinod have all opened the innings, but there have been only three notable opening stands -of 52, 63 and 122.
 
 
 Most teams have discovered and nurtured finishers, but in the case of RCB, the opponents have run through the middle and lower order without much fuss. In all, 828 of RCBs 1,407 runs have come from the blades of Kohli, de Villiers, Jadhav and Gayle alone. The rest have failed to soak up pressure and take responsibility. If Mandeep (90 from eight innings) did no justice to his talent,   (78 from 7 innings), Pawan Negi (105 from 7) and Head (74 from 5) will also be disappointed with their efforts.
 
 
 Bowling has never been the USP of RCB and this year nothing much has changed. Although the spinners have done a decent job, English pacer Tymal Mills hasn't lived up to the hype created by his arrival. On the other hand, Binny has been under-utilised with the ball, while the sting was missing in Shane Watson's attack. On the field too, on more than one occasion, the RCB looked uninspired and some sloppy fielding and missed catches did them no favour. 
 
