CHENNAI: It has been exactly three weeks since the syndicate of University of Madras resolved to form a four-member committee to investigate fund diversions to the tune of Rs 47 crore. However, the committee has not met once till date. The registrar in-charge has not sent an official communication on the committee.

 A senior official in the higher   on Tuesday said the files have been fast-tracked by the three-member vice-chancellor convenor committee which is discharging the duties in the absence of the vice-chancellor. “The notification for the committee meeting will come in a day or two. The probe will begin immediately,” the official said.
 
 The four-member committee comprises governor nominee Vishal Kumar, head of economics department  , head of psychology department S Karunanidhi and a joint-secretary level official from the higher education department. Karunanidhi was also appointed the registrar in-charge after the incumbent P   left office in March.
 
 The committee was formed after syndicate members approached higher education secretary  , the chairman of VC convenor committee, during last month’s syndicate. The probe team will investigate if due procedures were followed in the diversion of the funds, some of which were used to pay building contractors and some to pay salaries. A vigilance case will be filed if any serious irregularities come to the fore, Paliwal had informed the syndicate then.
 
 Fund diversion has been at the centre of many controversies at University of Madras. A judicial enquiry into the transfer of Rs 5 crore from a UGC grant meant for nano science to a builder is still pending. This is because the resolution of the senate, one of the policy making bodies of the university, has not been moved to the syndicate as yet.
 
 Both professor associations, Professor Forum of   and Madras University Teachers Association, have written to the governor and government officials to appoint a vice-chancellor as soon as possible to resolve the issues. A three-member VC search panel has not yet submitted a shortlist of names to the governor nearly 15 months after it was constituted.
 
