BENGALURU: The   has expressed concern over a possible fallout of the Supreme Court’s recent verdict   within 500 metres of national highways —massive revenue loss to the exchequer. 

 The industry, which also fears job losses, has predicted an upsurge in illegal liquor trade as lakhs of establishments, including hotels and retail liquor vends, are set to discontinue operations in the wake of the apex court order.
 
 The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) issued a statement on Wednesday, clarifying that directions issued by SC cannot apply only to shops situated within 500 metres of highways, but include restaurants and hotels too.
 
 “The establishments employ more than 5 crore people directly and indirectly, impacting the living conditions of almost 20 crore family members of the employees. Displacing such a large population from tourism jobs will raise the risk of nationwide unemployment, roughly estimated at more than a million. This population may be pushed towards undesirable activities to earn for their dependants,” said Nakul Anand, chairman of FAITH.
 
 Anand, however, said the hospitality industry respects the court’s judgment and is ready to support the government in enforcing it. “The industry honours and commends any judgment which upholds the safety of human lives,” he said.
 
 FAITH predicted that the tourism market share of India — which is already a miniscule 0.67 % — would reduce drastically since the frequency of foreign tourists visiting India may come down. 
 
 “Almost 9 million tourists visit India, resulting in almost 27 million visitations across Indian states (as some visit more than one state). These, along with 1.8 billion domestic visitations, frequent a significant number of the establishments as guests. This will be affected if the overall food and beverage experience is compromised at legitimate establishments which pay direct and indirect taxes to both the central and state governments,” said the statement. 
 
 FAITH also said foreign exchange earning from tourism, pegged at over $20bn at present, would plummet drastically. It also said non-performing assets (NPA) of banks would go up since the skewed business might impact debt repayment negatively. “We fear bootlegging and emergent social evils, a black market economy and a corruption-driven parallel economy, which the governments are trying so hard to weed out,” Anand said.
 
 The federation estimated a Rs 1 lakh crore revenue loss across India.
 
 
