BHOPAL: BJP's national general secretary and former minister in   cabinet,   made an active return to the state politics, sparking off speculations of his return to the state.

 After being out of the state for a while and being a part of Team Modi, that triumphed Uttar Pradesh and Uttrakhand assembly elections,   accompanied chief minister Chouhan at the Narmada Sewa Yatra in Sehore district on Tuesday. Once seen as a contender to Chouhan, Vijayvargiya also shared the stage and mike with him and sang a duet at a function organized on the banks of Narmada.
 
 “At the bank of river Narmada, if you find a friend like Kailash then one can enjoy the blissful waves. Jai Maa Narmade'', tweeted Chouhan on Tuesday.
 
 Vijayavargiya's tweet was also encouraging. “Holy Narmada Maa not only quenched the parched throats but also brought everybody together. Shivraj ji's Narmada Sewa Yatra has also taken up the task of bringing people together for a cause,'' said Vijayavargiya on the success of Narmada Yatra. 
 
 During his visit, Vijayavargiya actively participated in the assembly proceedings on Wednesday and met party leaders at the state BJP head office to boost the workers' morale on party's unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Sources in the BJP said that there has been wide speculation that Vijayavargiya's active role in the state hints at his willingness to return amid rumours of Chouhan being shifted to the Centre as a Union minister. However, Chouhan has rebuffed all such speculations about him. The change in Vijayargiya's stand after his allegations over slow pace of development works and corruption by bureaucracy in the past, has also taken party leaders by surprise.
 
 The national general secretary also held Holi celebrations at his official residence where party leaders, workers, bureaucrats and journalists were invited to the show of strength. Here too he was joined by chief minister Chouhan.
 
 Talking to reporters, Vijayavargiya appreciated chief minister Chouhan again for his achievements. 
 
 He also took political observers by surprise by stating, “BJP would contest 2018 Assembly elections in   under the leadership of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.”
 
