Panaji: The state appears to have gone ahead and recommended 229 km of state   and major district roads (MDR) to be upgraded into national highways without consulting local panchayats. Panchayats, who will have to garner infrastructure funds, claim to be in the dark about the move which will require massive land acquisition.

 With the PWD in the process of preparing the detailed project report for the expansion of the 21 stretches to national highways, panchayats are now wondering if the government believes in the spirit of the 73rd and 74th amendments.
 
 “The panchayat has not received any proposal. We have to see if it is benefiting the people and if they are in favour of the national highways. If people are against it then we can’t be in favour. There will be a big loss for Candolim if the roads are widened,” Candolim sarpanch Sandra Fialho told TOI.
 
 The Union ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) gave an in-principle approval for 229 km of Goa’s roads to be upgraded to national highways in a circular sent to the principal secretary for PWD on January 2.
 
 Most of the panchayats that are likely to be affected by the decision to take over certain state and district roads, continue to remain in the dark over MORTH’s decision.
 
 “The panchayat was not informed about this. I came to know yesterday. If this highway goes through Calangute, the village topography will get disturbed. Houses will get demolished, people will be displaced. We will fight it, because we have to fight it. A special gram sabha will be called on Sunday to discuss this issue. Without consulting panchayats, how did the state recommend these roads?” acting sarpanch Joseph Sequeira sought to know.
 
 Panch members of Nerul, Majorda and St. Andre-Goa Velha claimed that they were shocked with the out-going   government’s brazen proposal to classify roads as national highways with a width of 30-60m.
 
 “The BJP-led government’s proposal to convert many of the state highways and MDRs in Goa to new national highways is high-handed and contrary to the mandate of the 73rd and the 74th Amendment of the Constitution. This anti-people decision will result in an upheaval in people’s livelihood,” said advocate Yatish Naik.
 
 Pointing out that the PWD had yet to acquire land for expansion of state highways and MDRs into national highways, Naik said the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 would play a key role in deciding how citizens reacted to the BJP government’s decision.
 
 Section 4 of the Act says, “Whenever the appropriate government intends to acquire land for a public purpose, it shall consult the concerned panchayat, municipality or municipal corporation, as the case may be, at village level or ward level, in the affected area and carry out a social impact assessment study in consultation with them.”
 
 “This Act respects the concept of consent of the affected people and was an attempt to empower people especially with the view to uphold the 73rd and 74th Amendment,” Naik said.
 
 Majorda sarpanch Moses Vaz claimed that the panchayat had not made any representation before the government asking for such a proposal, nor had the government informed the panchayat about handing over the Velsao to Mobor road to MORTH.
 
 
