MUMBAI: Opposition from slum-dwellers in several hutment colonies threatens to jeopardize the world’s largest biometric   that is under way in the city.

 Often threatened and sometimes even assaulted, enumerators have been able to gather information from barely 336 slum clusters of the 3,316 identified in the city and its suburbs since the survey started in March last year.
 
 Officials at the   (SRA) said 1.24 lakh of the 7 lakh slum structures have so far been marked and identified, which means only about 17% of these have been covered. The survey team is tasked with knocking on the door of every structure, numbering it with paint and completing a biometric survey of each member of the family.
 
 “At this pace, it will take another three to four years to cover the entire city,” SRA CEO   said. 
 
 Slum-dwellers in hutment colonies such as in Deonar in the eastern suburbs and Majas in Jogeshwari “aggressively opposed’’ the surveyors. Behrampada in Bandra (east) is another no-go area, one where no builder has succeeded in redeveloping the slum. Activists describe living conditions there as “sub-human’’ and “wretched’’.
 
 “At some places, we are threatened and told not to enter the slum,” said B I Kendre, SRA chief co-ordination officer (biometric survey cell). “They think we have represent some builder.”
 
 There have been instances when a slum-dweller would rudely inform the enumerator that he has two wives, and so he should get two tenements when the slum is taken up for redevelopment.
 
 Within some slum clusters, residents are affiliated to rival builders. 
 
 “They feel we belong to the rival group and stop us,” a ground-level surveyor said.
 
 Last year in Deonar, staff were threatened, abused and assaulted, sometimes in the presence of police escorts. “It has been a complete no-go area for us,” a surveyor,  , had told TOI some months ago.
 
 The enumerators can count 1,000 huts a day, but have been able to barely cover 400.
 
 The survey is to establish the eligibility of slum-dwellers when their enclaves are taken up for redevelopment by private builders. The government aims to eliminate all slum areas in the state by 2022 and the decision to go for the exercise in the city was taken in 2015.
 
 In 20 years, the SRA has provided only 1.77 lakh new tenements to slum-dwellers. During these years, builders submitted 2,548 slum redevelopment proposals, of which 366 came to be abandoned while 1,164 were completed with occupation certificates.
 
 
 
 
 The state government and the Slum Rehabilitation Authority should have communicated far better with slum-dwellers about the purpose and significance of the survey.That would have ensured less resistance by the poor. But it is still not too late, and before knocking on the doors of huts, the state should carry out an intensive publicity campaign so that the poor do not feel threatened by officials of the government approaching their households.
 
 
