Salem: Industries minister M C Sampath on Friday said the state government was all set to bring in a   and aerospace sectors that would facilitate start-ups in these sectors to come up in Tamil Nadu. “The policy is currently in the draft stage and it will be released within two months,” he said.

 Sampath was in Mallur here to attend an award function organised by Aerospace Engineering Pvt Ltd., a Salem-based aerospace engineering company.
 
 Sampath said the state government, along with the State Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO), was working on the aerospace park at Vallam Vadagal near Sriperumbudur. To be set up on 267 acres of land, the government has allocated Rs 40 crore for the infrastructure facilities. “So far, 13 companies have expressed their interest to set up industries in the park,” he said. The minister said the park would also feature centralised aircraft advance computing design engineering centre, which is estimated to cost 400 crore.
 
 Pointing out that Tamil Nadu was already among the top 10 automobile hubs in the country, Sampath said, “We are now taking steps to become number one in aerospace segment.” The minister also hinted that that aerospace park was likely to bring to the state Rs 3,000 crore in direct investments and Rs 10,000 crore through indirect investments.
 
 Referring to the industrial corridor to be set up in south TN, Sampath said it would create a lot job opportunities, besides paving way for industries to mushroom. The corridor will be set up on 20,000 acres between Madurai and Tuticorin connecting nine southern districts, including Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar and Theni.
 
 Answering a question on privatisation of Salem Steel Plant, Sampath said the state government has plans to set up Sipcot industries on its premises as the plant currently utilises only 1000 acres of land while the remaining 3000 acres were unused. “We can save the plant by setting up Sipcot industries,” he said and added that the state would press the central government in this regard.
 
 The Salem Aeropark employees were honoured at the event that was attended by company director M Ashok Kumar, managing director R Sundaram, additional secretary to Tamil Nadu government for industries department M S Shanmugam, Salem district collector V Sampath and Tamil Nadu industrial guidance and export promotion bureau vic-chairperson Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. 
 
 
