Gurgaon: Three people were arrested on Monday for their alleged role in the   of a 10-year-old girl, whose body was found in a cistern with a plastic rope tied around her neck. The girl had gone missing on January 16 from a jhuggi near Tau Devi Lal Botanical Garden in Sector 52. Police said the accused — a driver, an auto rickshaw driver and a rag picker — live near a jhuggi in Sector 43.

 An inquiry revealed that she was held hostage for nearly six days by the tormentors before being gagged to death. The men, according to police, would feed her every night in an attempt to keep her alive. 
 
 The doctors, who conducted the postmortem, had earlier told TOI that a deep wound, which was inflicted with a sharp-edged weapon, was found on her neck. Also, the autopsy report revealed that the accused had tried to burn her body in a bid to destroy evidences. Some minor burns were also found on her face, according to the report. Her body was found in Saraswati Kunj in Sector 53.
 
 The accused have been identified as Aijaz Malik (26), Mukhtar Ali (30) and Zaleel (22), who belong to West Bengal. They have been living in Gurgaon for around 10 years, according to police. While Aijaz was the driver of one of the top executives of a pharmaceutical company, Mukhtar drove autorickshaw for a living and Zaleel worked as a rag picker.
 
 According to police, Mukhtar made acquaintance with the girl, lured her by offering her Rs 300 and made her sit in the black Skoda — owned by the senior pharm firm executive — around 12.00 noon on January 16. His two accomplices — Aijaz and Zaleel — were already inside the car, police said.
 
  “The trio then took her to a jhuggi in Sector 43 where Zaleel lived and took turns to   her. They tied her to a coat and stuffed her mouth with clothes to prevent her from screaming whenever they went out. They would feed her every night only to keep her alive. On January 22 night, the girl’s condition deteriorated. Realising that she would be no use, they then strangled her, took her body on their shoulders, walked around 2 km and finally dumped her in the cistern. Then they tried to burn her face in an apparent bid to destroy evidences,” inspector Gaurav Phogat, SHO, Sushant Lok police station told TOI.
 
 According to police, one of the neighbours of the girl — a 15-year-old girl — identified the black Skoda in which the 10-year-old was allegedly kidnapped. The car was spotted in the area again on February 11. 
 
 According to police informers, some transgenders in the area were seen roaming in the car earlier. 
 
 Police said Aijaz’s arrest helped them crack the case, after which the two others were also nabbed. 
 
 An FIR was registered against the accused under sections 363 (abduction), 366A (procreation of minor girl) of IPC at the Sushant Lok police station. After recovering her body, police added section 302 (murder) of IPC and POCSO Act in the FIR. A special investigation team was constituted under inspector Gaurav Phogat, who cracked the case and arrested the three accused. “The trio confessed to have committed the crime. The accused were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody. The car which was used in the crime has been seized. We will interrogate the car owner if required,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (east).
 
 
