KOLKATA: Acting on a TOI expose on pavements and sections of roads around New Market being sold for lakhs,   conducted raids at   to drive hawkers off the carriageway. But the twin drives on Wednesday and Thursday had no discernible effect as hawkers returned in numbers minutes after the cops left and took over more than half the street, including the car parking lot. If anything, the futility of the   action only underlined the difficulty of controlling hawkers that have the backing of politicians, union leaders, corporators and a section of the police. 

 Cops from New Market police station conducted a “surprise” drive on Wednesday to reclaim the road that had been grabbed by hawkers. Though the Trinamool-controlled Central Kolkata Progressive Hawkers’ Union has 102 hawkers registered with it, more than twice the number of hawkers do business on this street.
 
 Till seven years ago, a single line of hawkers did business on the footpath along the walls of the new and old complex of New Market. But since then, half the 50-ft wide street has been occupied by three, and in places, four lines of hawkers. According to information available to TOI, the hawkers pay around Rs 200 daily as ‘protection fee’ to conduct business there. Last year, a businessman had offered Rs 1.5 crore to purchase the owners of six dalas along the Bertram Street footpath but the latter had turned it down.
 
 Police on Wednesday did seize some goods from a section of hawkers that resisted when they were asked to wind up their stalls. But as soon as the force left, the hawkers returned. On Thursday, the police came again but this time, alert hawkers disappeared just as cops reached the spot. They were again back as soon as the cops left, a flashback to the scenes one witnessed on Kolkata’s footpaths around a decade and a half ago when cops and hawkers were constantly engaged in a cat and mouse game.
 
 Unlike in past when hawkers were rattled by continued police raids, the current crop of hawkers are unperturbed. “Police will do nothing. The chief minister and mayor have spoken in our favour. We have been assured there will be no displacement of hawkers,” a union leader said.
 
 Traders of New Market are also not convinced that the raids will do anything to deter hawkers from occupying the streets and blocking car parks. Asraf Ali, joint secretary of Joint Traders Forum comprising over 4,500 shop-owners in the New Market and surrounding areas, feels such raids will be a farce unless there is intent to clear the roads and instruction from the top to enforce rules. 
 
 
