PUNE: A 23-year-old recently walked into a sleep specialist’s clinic in the city with complaints of forgetfulness,  , depression and irritability. On investigation, it was found that he was playing games on the Internet till 2am, after which he found it difficult to fall asleep, despite exhaustion. Tossing and turning in bed till early morning, he was unable to wake up in time for office.

 A woman, two years younger to this youth, too consulted a doctor for her inability to sleep at night, despite taking sleeping pills. Her stint at a BPO call centre for two years was diagnosed as the root cause of the problem. Even eight months after quitting the job, she found it difficult to come back into the normal routine and would remain glued to her laptop till late in the night, smoking and consuming coffee alongside.
 
 Excessive  , especially just before bed time is wreaking havoc on sleep cycles of citizens, doctors say, advising against use of mobile phones, computers and even watching television at least for a couple of hours before going to bed.
 
 Directly or indirectly, disrupted sleep can have a negative effect on the way in which sufferers perform daily activities, besides harming social and family life.
 
 As per global estimates of the World Sleep Society, sleep disorders are an epidemic that is threatening health and quality of life for up to 45% of the world’s population.
 
 Specialist doctors here report an alarming increase in the number of young patients. Swapnil Deshmukh, psychiatrist and sleep specialist, says people in the age group of 25-35 years make up the bulk of his patients. “The most common complaint is ‘sleep postponement’ or the inability to sleep till even 2am or 3am. Naturally, such people wake up late and, over a period of time, end up disrupting their entire routine. Sleep disturbances, which make it difficult for the sufferer to fall asleep if awakened, is another major complaint, especially from young working women juggling too many responsibilities,” he said.
 
 Excessive use of   is the biggest reason for sleep disorders, Deshmukh said. “Not only does one lose out on the total time available for quality sleep, the content being viewed engages the brain with exciting or provocative information, triggering emotional and hormonal responses (like adrenalin), which can reduce the ability to fall asleep. The other critical factor is of light emissions from these electronic devices that can disrupt the body’s natural occurring circadian rhythm, increasing alertness and suppressing the release of the hormone melatonin, which is important for regulating our sleep-wake cycle,” he said.
 
 Kavita Choudhari, member of Indian Association of Surgeons for Sleep Apnea, the World Association of Sleep Medicine and a World Sleep Day delegate, suggests getting off the screens at least an hour before sleeping. “Quality sleep is as important as the food we eat. Lack of it can lead to declining performance at work and increase risk of accidents. Lifestyles, like eating late in the night or watching TV in the bedroom should be strictly avoided,” she said.
 
