AHMEDABAD: From the Iron Man of India to weapons used by Indian armed forces, everything of pride was showcased at the Vibrant Gujarat   show, being organized in Gandhinagar. The stall with a helicopter simulator and one with an immersive reality show on wildlife drew huge crowds.

 But the centre of attraction was a stall on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The stall had a kiosk, which on rotation, gave a complete glimpse of the Karamsad House of Patel. Another kiosk gives an inside view of the 182-feet Statue of Unity. 
 
  Rajesh Modi, who came from Rajkot to see the trade fair, said, “In my 50 years, I only read about   in books, but of late, the BJP government has given greater prominence to the Iron Man. 
 
 The best part was that the wall of the stall was inscribed with details of places associated with Sardar,” he said.
 
 Apart from Sardar there were statues of Buddha and also Swami Vivekananda, but there was no statue on the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi. In the tourism stall of Gujarat, a small screen was put up showing places associated with Gandhiji.
 
 Apart from the Sardar Ka Safar stall, stalls of the ministry of defence and and that of the Indian Air Force also drew visitors. People were seen taking photographs of various missiles and models of the fighter aircraft which were on display. These models also displayed information on the fighter planes and the weapons on display. The Akash, a medium-range surface-to-air missile developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was put on show.
 
 People queued up to try their hands on the helicopter simulator. Karishma Shah, an executive of a private company, said that she had to wait for nearly 20 minutes to try taking off and landing using the simulator. “But it was difficult and I crash-landed on a building and fell on ground,” she said.
 
 The immersive reality show at the Gujarat forest department stall also drew many visitors. 
 
 People were seen taking their photographs and waited for the lion, tiger or leopard to come on screen. 
 
 Visitors at the   stall were seen watching various satellites and also the display on the Mars mission. The ISRO also displayed prototypes of the camera and equipment which had been sent on the mission.
 
