NEW DELHI: A day after Pakistan announced its decision to hang Indian national  , foreign minister   sought to drive home differences within the establishment in Islamabad.
 
  “…it is extraordinary that yesterday, a decision is suddenly announced awarding death sentence in this case when previous exchanges with India itself underlines the insufficiency of evidence. To make matters even more absurd, three hours after the death sentence was announced, the Indian High Commission received an official communication from the foreign ministry of Pakistan reiterating the Pakistani proposal for conditional consular access. That tells us a lot about the farcical nature of the alleged proceedings which have led to an indefensible verdict against an innocent kidnapped Indian,” Swaraj said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.
  
  There are reports in Pakistani media about differences between that country’s armed forces and the civilian government on a military court’s order sentencing Jadhav to death on charges of spying.
  
  
 
  Swaraj hinted in her remarks in Parliament that Pakistan was seeking acceptance of Jadhav’s role in “espionage activities” in return for consular access to the Indian High Commission.
  
  “…earlier this year, the Pakistan government sought our assistance to obtain evidence and other materials for the investigation process. In doing so, they levelled ridiculous charges against senior Indian officials who had no connection to this issue. Thereafter, they linked providing consular access to our acceptance of their position. Nevertheless, in the hope that some forward movement could be made, our response was constructive. We pointed out that consular access to Shri Jadhav would be an essential prerequisite in order to verify the facts and understand the circumstances of his presence in Pakistan,” she said.
  
  Later in the day, Pakistan’s high commissioner to India   claimed Jadhav was a “terrorist”. Basit said: “A terrorist should meet his fate for whatever he did.” 
