PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government has made grand plans for the centenary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s arrival in Patna and the launch of the   in 1917. The yearlong celebrations will start with an international seminar on the life of Bapu at the under-construction   (ICC) on April 18. 

 In fact, the ICC is slated to be inaugurated on April 18 and the state government is likely to declare the day as a gazetted holiday. There will also be widescale infrastructure development at Bettiah and Motihari from where Bapu started the Satyagraha movement.
 
 “While the tourism department will organize laser shows in Patna and Champaran, the education department will hold seminars and talks in which scholars and experts of Gandhian philosophy will participate. The art, culture and youth affairs department will organize cultural and musical shows based on Bapu’s life,” Gandhi Sangrahalaya’s secretary Razi Ahmad told TOI on Monday.
 
 The government may also run promotional buses with books and videos on Bapu’s life in all nine administrative divisions of the state. “The tourism department has also made a proposal to develop a tourist bungalow and a museum at Bhitiharwa Ashram in Gaunaha block where Bapu stayed during the Champaran Satyagraha. Walks are also proposed to be organized across the state for promoting awareness on Gandhi circuit in Bihar,” said Razi.
 
 Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa on January 9, 1915 and eventually led his first Satyagraha movement (non-violent freedom struggle) from Champaran in 1917. According to Razi, “Bapu was approached by several leaders from Bihar in the first meeting of the   at Lucknow in 1916 with a request to start a movement against the atrocities on farmers in Champaran. He assured them that he would visit Champaran and it is in this regard that he arrived for the first time in Patna on April 10, 1917.”
 
 Like Prakashotsava, the groundwork for the Champaran centenary celebrations has been going for over a year now. While the preparations are being directly monitored by chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, a couple of review meetings have also been held under the chairmanship of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar. In fact, during the main event of the Prakashotsava celebrations at Gandhi Maidan on January 5, the CM said the Champaran centenary celebrations would be organized on a bigger scale and with greater enthusiasm. The Union government is also giving funds for the centenary celebrations.
 
 
