MUMBAI: Observing that violence does not mean physical violence alone, a   ruled in favour of a   who was being forced to evict her house by her late husband’s brother and sister-in-law following his death. The court held that the fear of being dispossessed from one’s home amounts to emotional   and is a case of domestic violence.

 The woman’s in-laws had moved the sessions court after a magistrate court ruled in her favour and directed them not to evict her. They claimed that the order was bad in law and that the court had ignored the basic criteria of domestic violence. They further claimed that since the dispute arose out of share and use of the room, it fell within the jurisdiction of the civil court. They prayed that the appeal be allowed and order be quashed and set aside.
 
 The woman had submitted the domestic violence case before court in 2015. The family resided jointly in a   in Worli. The woman said she had continued to live in the one-room tenement after her husband’s death. But the problem arose after her mother-in-law too died. She said after her death, her brother-in-law and his family started harassing her, physically and mentally. The woman said they wanted to evict her and her children from the house and even disallowed her from using the tap. She said that her husband used to be a tenant of the room and later her mother-in-law became the tenant. She said that there was no document to show that this was later passed on to his brother-in-law.
 
 The court concluded that the woman was entitled to stay there owing to her rights procured after her marriage. “Admittedly, violence need not be physical alone. Applicant (woman) said that respondents (brother-in-law and family) are trying to dispossess her. This fear is sufficient to be held as emotional abuse. If applicant is evicted from room, she will have to stay on the road. That is domestic violence,” the court held.
 
 The court dismissed the plea and said the order did not require interference. It allowed the interim relief granted to the woman directing the brother-in-law and his family not to make her leave the house.
 
 
