Nagpur: Much has been written and read about the father of Indian constitution Dr Babasaheb  . But the woman behind him, his wife who had made her own share of sacrifices, is largely unknown, her story unheard of.

 On Monday evening, Sanjay Bhakre Foundation presented ‘Ramai’, the story of Ramabai Ambedkar and her childhood, at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar. The play written by Prabhakar Dupare is about 25-year-old and was first directed by Ashok Gawli. Sanjay Bhakre revived it for the benefit of this generation, which is oblivious to the austere life Ramabai led. Bhakre presented the play with his own changes and an entirely new set of actors.
 
 Nagpur University registrar Puran Meshram and Nitin Raut, former minister and former MLA of Nagpur North, were the chief guests at the event. Raut said the play should reach maximum number of people and gave his good wishes to the production team. Meshram said that the new generation had not been able to see Dr Ambedkar. “We can only read about him.  , who was instrumental in Ambedkar’s success, has carved her name in history as well,” he said.
 
 The story, shown in a flashback narrative, traces Ramabai’s childhood and the difficulties she faced as she grew up. The first half focused on her parents and siblings, and the narration was taken forward by Rama’s present-day brother. The other half of the two-act play also threw light on her tragic marital life, as Dr Ambedkar’s work in the US enforced long separation between the couple.
 
 A generous and kind person at heart, Ramabai worked for the betterment of people around her. Aishwarya Dorle played the lead role and did justice to it. Dr Ambedkar, though was referred to, wasn’t shown in the form of a character.
 
 The play managed to appeal to the audience despite its simplicity and tragic plot. There were barely any props and the actors’ costumes though befitting, were plain — white kurtas clad men and women in cotton saris draped in typical Maharashtrian way. The impeccable dialect of actors brought considerable authenticity to the characters.
 
 
