NEW DELHI: BJP MP Varun Gandhi’s comments that displaced   who fled   should be given refugee status have attracted adverse notice of the party leadership as his views sharply contradict the stand taken by the party and the government.

 The BJP and the government have maintained that the migrants from Myanmar are a threat to national security, which could not be compromised for a humanitarian cause.
 
 Though party leaders refused to react openly, saying the matter would be taken up at an “appropriate time”, they cited minister of state for home affairs Hansraj Ahir’s views on Varun’s statement. “Jo desh ke hith mein sochega woh is tarah ke bayan nahi dega (anyone who has national interest in mind won't make such statements),” Ahir said.
 
 Interestingly, Varun’s advocacy of Rohingya Muslims is in contrast to his remarks on the minority community in the 2009 Lok Sabha campaign when he was embroiled in a hate speech controversy. Ahir said sections of   had created trouble in Myanmar and had worked against the government there.
 
 “If Myanmar has rejected them, why should we accept them?” he asked, adding that the government was stopping Rohingyas from settling in India since they were a security threat.
 
 In an opinion piece in a newspaper, Varun had asked the government to consider granting refugee status to the Rohingyas.
 
 He also said, “Along with international agreements India is a signatory to, we also have the rich Indian tradition of helping refugees." In a later tweet, Varun clarified that he was just empathising with Rohingyas and didn't intend to defy the party-government line. “My recent piece focused primarily on defining India's asylum policy, with clear demarcations on how we would accept refugees,” he tweeted. “As for the Rohingyas, I have called for empathy, leading potentially to asylum, while vetting each applicant for national security concerns,” he further tweeted.
 
 However, a senior BJP leader said, “Varun Gandhi needs to read more about Rohingyas before making such a suggestion, which government agencies consider untenable.”
 
