ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad   on Tuesday prohibited the government from issuing   to any candidate in the   belonging to   categories, recommended by the state government to be included in the SC list on December 22. The court also directed the government to ensure that no such candidate is allowed to contest from any seat reserved for SC category candidates.

 A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice Yashwant Varma directed the principal secretary, social welfare, to circulate the order to concerned officers of all the districts in the state to ensure its compliance. The court, which had admitted a PIL filed by Dr BR Ambedkar Granthalaya Jan Kalyan Society, fixed February 9 as the next date of hearing. The society had challenged the recommendation of the state government to include 17 OBC category candidates in the SC list.
 
 During hearing, the society’s counsel contended that if the state government issues SC certificate to candidates belonging to the 17 OBC castes, then they will contest the assembly election on seats reserved for SC category in the state.
 
 However, advocate general Vijay Bahadur Singh clarified that neither the state government issued nor it will issue SC certificate to any candidate belonging to the 17 OBC castes recommended by the state government to be included in SC list during pendency of the PIL.
 
 The court then directed the principal secretary, social welfare, not to issue SC certificates to such candidates. 
 
 Earlier, the petitioner had claimed that the Constitution empowers only the Union government to make such amendments and include a category in the Scheduled Caste list. Hence, any such decision by state government is violative of Article 341 of Constitution as state government on its own cannot initiate the process of inclusion of a caste in the list of Scheduled Castes.
 
 On December 22, a cabinet meeting presided over by chief minister   had recommended to include Kahar, Kashyap, Kewat, Nishad, Bind, Bhar, Prajapati, Rajbhar, Batham, Gaur, Tura, Majhi, Mallah, Kumhar, Dheemar and Machua sub-castes in the Scheduled Caste category. 
 
