BAREILLY: The Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance might have hit its first speed bump with the SP cadre in at least three seats unilaterally rejecting   candidates. Top leaders of the party unit here not only dubbed the Congress candidates weak, but also complained about the choices.

 “All three Congress candidates are greenhorns and have low chances of winning. We have apprised the SP state president about our concerns.We are waiting for their final call on it,“ said Subhlesh Yadav, SP's district president.
 
 As a result of the alliance, SP has conceded three seats to Congress in Bareilly district. Congress had announced the candidature of Nawab Mujahid Khan from Bareilly Cantt, Prem Prakash Agarwal from Bareilly City and   Pal from Meerganj constituencies. Of these,   has sitting MLAs in Bareilly City and Cantt seats while Sultan Beg of BSP is the sit ting MLA from Meerganj.
 
 The SP cadres here believe that the Congress candidates would not be able to make a dent in these constituencies even with support of the alliance. Speaking to TOI, SP leader and Bareilly mayor IS Tomar said, “Mujahid Khan had got mere 8,000 votes from the Bareilly city last time. The winner, BJP's Arun Kumar, had polled a total of 68,576 votes. Khan would not be able to make much differ ence this time even with the support of SP . It is unfortunate that the party has fielded weak candi dates in almost all constituencies here.“ Another SP leader, on the condition of anonymity , said, “All the Congress candidates were announced in haste. No proper survey of candidates or their strength in a particular constituency was done by the top leadership. As a matter of fact, the party does not have enough good candidates to field in many constituencies.“
 
 Amid rumours doing round that Congress might concede at least one seat to SP here in a last-minute rejig, ticket aspirants are making trips to Lucknow to get in touch with the state leadership.
 
  spokesperson  , however, had a rather blunt advice for the party's Bareilly district chief. “Subhlesh Yadav should work for the SP candidates fielded from Bareilly district and not bother about the fate of Congress candidates in the region,“ Siddiqui told TOI.
 
