MUMBAI: The   has turned down the MNS offer for seat adjustments in the upcoming BMC election. “We will not team up with any party , including the MNS. We will go solo for the civic election,“ Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday. He was talking informally to mediapersons on the sidelines of a party function.

 The MNS, on the other hand, has reiterated its wish to join hands with the Sena to avoid a split in Marathi votes during the Mumbai election.“We are not setting any conditions about share of seats. The MNS considers itself the Se na's younger brother,“ said MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar. Out on a limb because of large-scale defections and defeat in the last Lok Sabha and state legislative assembly elections, the MNS is hopeful of bettering its poll prospects by playing second fiddle to the Sena, said observers.
 
 Stating that he had not received any written proposal from the MNS for partnership in the Mumbai civic election, Thackeray said his party would contest the polls on its own strength.
 
 However, Nandgaonkar, who visited Matoshree on Sunday as the MNS's emissary, said a formal proposal had been submitted to the Sena. “We continue to hope that there will be a positive response from Matoshree,“ Nandgaonkar added. Stating that MNS president Raj Thackeray had put as many as seven calls to Matoshree over the last few days, Nandgaonkar said his party was willing for an unconditional partnership with the Sena. The MNS is trying to impress upon the Sena that the two parties need to come together to stop the BJP from winning the Mumbai mayoralty , it is learnt.
 
 MNS corporator Sandip Deshpande said, “The winning margin came down to 200-300 votes in the 2012 elections. The Sena and my party should come together to bring down the numbers of such narrow defeats.“
 
 Meanwhile, Saamna has riled the BJP for opening its doors to goons and anti-social elements ahead of civic elections in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Shiv Sena MLC   on Monday took on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on the issue of transparency, by asking him how BJP managed the trust vote on the floor of the House in 2014, when the party was not in a majority. He also raised questions on contracts allotted by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), and said, “The CM has no moral ground to talk about transparency in BMC.“
 
 He argued that BJP should adhere to transparency at the Centre and in the state.
 
 Meanwhile,  , former BJP corporator and chief of the party's Gujarati cell, joined the Sena on Monday. Bhanushali has clout among Gujarati Bhanushalis of Ghatkopar. 
 
 
