KOLKATA: Electric cars are being registered in Kolkata again. Sale of these cars had ground to a halt in the city as the public vehicles department (PVD) had stopped registering electric cars, citing the automaker’s inability to specify the cubic capacity and power of engines of vehicles. The officials had refused to acknowledge that e-cars run on electric motors, and hence, do not have engines from which the cubic capacity or brake horsepower can be derived. 

 The relief came after transport principal secretary   reacted to the TOI report that highlighted the plight of e-car customers. They had bought e-cars at a premium to contribute positively to the environment but were unable to use them while shelling out EMI. Bandyopadhyay asked PVD officials to find a solution to end the stalemate. Bandyopadhyay made it clear that   should not be perceived as a state that discourages an environment friendly mode of transport.
 
 PVD officials said the issue was a mere technicality. According to an official, it was non-uniformity in the unit of battery power used in e-vehicles that was posed a problem.
 
 “The tax of e-vehicle is calculated on the basis of kWh (kilowatt-hour). But e-vehicles have different units for their battery capacity. This posed a problem for the registration authority. We have now prepared a conversion table to manually calculate the battery capacity,” said a PVD official, stressing, that the arrangement was stop-gap and a more permanent solution had to be provided by the Centre. 
 
 These arguments, however, are not in sync with the product specifications of Mahaindra Electric’s E2O Plus, the only   on sale that is currently marketed in Kolkata. Its product brochure available on the internet clearly states the power of twin variants in kWh. Yet, it has been unable to register its cars in Kolkata since January when it has been doing so in all other cities.
 
 The problem, a source said, was lack of initiative and innovation among a section of transport department staff to accept that electric cars did not have an engine, and so, inputs on cubic capacity and power in bhp were not possible. “The kWh had to be converted into bhp. They have done so now. In the cubic capacity column, they have to put in zero,” he said. 
 
 The transport department has written to the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), seeking the inclusion of separate specification for electric cars.
 
