Nagpur: While the government is spending crores every year on plantations, it does not hesitate in brutally trimming hundreds of age-old trees every time a VVIP visits the city. Ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s Nagpur visit on September 22, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department is heavily trimming branches of trees on the likely route the Presidential cavalcade is expected to take, a move expected to severely harm several fully-grown trees.  The civic body has cited safety and security issues as the reason for the move which has got green activists seeing red.  On Thursday, TOI saw workers heavily trimming the branches of huge almond trees on a road in Civil Lines. Even trees which did not pose any threat and were close to the pavement were being cut.  NMC officials said that as per the usual practice, branches projecting towards the road on the convoy route will be chopped. “Trees at Raj Bhavan-Ladies club square-RBI square-Rahate Square-Congress Nagar-Medical Square, Ashok Square till Reshimbagh will be trimmed,” they said.  Roundly condemning the move, environmentalists said that sacrificing green cover for a VVIP’s convoy was completely illogical. “One one hand, our country has signed the Paris climate agreement, globally making a promise to reduce carbon emissions. But locally, we don’t hesitate in damaging hundreds of trees in every city the Prime Minister or President visits,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil. He added that few trees which really pose a danger to the convoy should have been selected after a survey and trimmed. “Heavy trimming of trees disturbs its centre of gravity, causing an imbalance. In case of heavy winds, the trees are at great risk of getting uprooted,” said Chatterjee.  Apart from this, heavy trimming also stunts the tree's growth and reduce its life, said green activist Shrikant Deshpande. “The almond trees that are being cut were planted by the NMC many years back. As per the centre’s act, a common man has to take permission for cutting even a single branch. The practice of chopping off hundreds of branches for a VVIP’s visit needs to come to an end,” he added.  When in 2011, huge branches of 25-30 neem trees were cut to ensure the security for President Pratibha Patil near Achalpur during her visit to Amravati, the then Rashtrapati Bhavan spokesperson and officer on special duty (public relations) had told TOI that there were no orders from Rashtrapati Bhavan to chop or trim trees for presidential visits. 