MAHOBA: If there's one thing that never fails farmers in parched  , it's their misfortune. This year the region experienced good monsoon and a promising harvest -after years of drought and scanty rain. But cattle, ones they abandon for a few months every year following an old custom called `annapratha', are haunting them. With the crop better, famished livestock are grazing on them devastating the farmers, who are forced to stay up all night to save whatever little is left of their produce.

 In seven UP districts that constitute Bundelkhand along with six of MP, the cattle menace has become the main issue, forcing politicians to promise help. BJP chief  , who spoke at   on February 15, promised new cattle shelters if his party formed government. BJP candidate  , who won Mahoba in 2012 on a BSP ticket, said, "It's on our priority list for the region."
 
 Almost 80% of Bundelkhand's 1.83 crore population lives in villages (2011 census) and much of this depends on farming.Livestock, reared as insurance against crop failure, is traditionally left for grazing during the lean season.
 
 Last June, former AAP member   organised a padyatra here, during which he said food and water shortage during summer had killed nearly 3 lakh cattle.Mohan Lal Rajput, a farmer, said, "We don't have enough to feed ourselves, how can we afford to keep animals? Annapratha is a necessity. It's good that parties have made promises, but I've little hope things will change."
 
 Sushil Kumar, programme coA ordinator at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Mahoba, said, "There are 200 400 such animals in a herd, wherever they go they bring destruction." Ma hoba chief veterinary officer Shiv Kumar conceded no official figure was available on the strays, but locals put it at over 50,000 in Mahoba district alone.
 
 Bundelkhand, spread over 70,000 sq km, has faced adverse natural conditions for long.It was parched between 2003 and 2010. After two late monsoons and poor rains in 2012 and 2013, it faced drought years in 2014 and 2015.
 
 A 2014 National Institute of Disaster Management report said only 7% of villages in the region had enough water through the year for domestic use. In more than 60% of villages, drinking water was available for only one month; women here spent an average 4-5 hours every day collecting drinking water.
 
 
