LUCKNOW: Taking a cue from chief minister  , who directed government officials to declare details of their movable and immovable assets, King George's   too directed its faculty members to furnish details of their assets. 

 The instructions came in March and close to the April 15 deadline, only 10% teachers out of 600 have followed the order. On Thursday, the vice-chancellor reminded faculty members by email and on their WhatsApp group, that April's salary of erring faculty members will be held back.
 
 Officials in the state medical education department said the step can serve as a basis for tracking medical teachers engaged in private practice. This is crucial considering the Yogi government has already warned action against government doctors who violate the ban on private practice. 
 
 On failing to follow the order, faculty members will be deprived of their salary in May. "The order to declare their assets was issued to faculty members in the last week of March and April 15 is the last date," vice-chancellor Ravi Kant told TOI. Sources said faculty members resisted the order stating that the CM's order was not meant for medical education institutions. In response, the VC submitted his details first. The VC said, "Many faculty members fear details submitted will not remain confidential. But I have clarified that the asset declaration campaign is being handled by me personally. Also, the details would be kept in sealed envelopes which will be opened only if need arises." 
 
 President of the   Teachers Association, Navneet Kumar, however, said there was no resistance from the teachers. "We are open to the idea and there is no resistance to it. Probably, the confusion around it has created an impression of resistance." He stated further that the proforma for assets declaration was too long and demanded some more time to gather the details. The VC has sent five reminders so far but faculty members need some time to gather details so that the form would be adequately filled. Also, there is no mechanism to sort queries raised from our end," said Kumar. 
 
