PUNE: A tar road connecting Kedarinagar to Wanowrie has been motorists’ delight for over 10 years, but the land it passes through still belongs to the   II.

 The   ( ) laid the road, but it is yet to compensate the   (SRPF) for the land on which it was built. Naturally, SRPF has not transferred the land officially to the corporation.
 
 The SRPF Group II authorities recently sent a letter to the PMC commissioner, Kunal Kumar, and revenue authorities stating if they did not receive any response from the civic body officials, they would close the road constructing a wall. The SRPF officials have also communicated the matter to mayor  , representing the area.
 
 The mayor said he was aware of the issue. “PMC will definitely grant compensation to the SRPF against the land,” he said, adding that the SRPF should not block the road because it would cause inconvenience to residents.
 
 The 80-foot-wide road provides an easy access to many housing societies, hospitals and schools that have come up in the area in the past 15 years. The alternative road compels people to take a detour, increasing the travel time.
 
 SRPF authorities claimed that the PMC had encroached on 3,605sqm of its land and constructed the road leading to Kedarinagar from Wanowrie.
 
 SRPF Commandant Sarang Awad told TOI that the encroachment came to light during the verification of documents and a fresh land measurement of the SRPF Group II spread over 245 acres.
 
 The SRPF authorities studied records from 1950 and realized the land was in SRPF’s possession till 2002. In 1958, the Indian Army had handed over the land to the state government for the SRPF campus.
 
 The PMC had written to the SRPF Group II in 2002, seeking transfer of the land to it for constructing a road. Thereafter, the state home department gave its nod to handover the land to the civic body in lieu of compensation. After 2002, the PMC did not write any letter to the SRPF but took over the land measuring 3605sqm without paying any compensation. 
 
 After conducting a study of the disputed land, including the part on which the PMC built the road, and encroachment on it, the SRPF has started safeguarding it by constructing a wall. The district collector has allotted Rs5 crore for the project. The construction of the wall is almost complete, barring the illegal road constructed by the PMC. The SRPF has put up a board on the road, stating the property belonged to the SRPF Group II.
 
 The SRPF authorities told TOI that the PMC could take over the land officially by completing the formalities and compensating the SRPF. “The PMC can pay for the land. The money will be deposited in the state treasury directly,” SRPF Commandant Awad said.
 
 Mayor Jagtap said, “I have requested the SRPF authorities to write an application to the PMC seeking compensation, which will be granted to them immediately.”
 
 He said the Union government had ordered all the government offices to conduct a survey of their land. “The SRPF, too, conducted a survey. It revealed that the land on which the road was constructed belonged to it. Even the old stones placed during the previous measurement are still there,” he said.
 
 Rajendra Raut, the head of the PMC’s road department, said, “It is a very old issue. The officers have been asked to check if and how the land was given to us. After the fact-finding, the decision on if any compensation has to be given or not will be taken.” 
 
