LUCKNOW:   of a child is an important indicator of health, something which both pediatricians and parents take for granted. 

 Experts in paediatric   who gathered at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here on Saturday said height is adversely affected in case a child is suffering from a chronic or long term illness. The array of problems may affect crucial organs like liver, kidney, heart along with general issues like anaemia and malabsorption. 
 
 Experts therefore urged doctors and parents to monitor baby’s height along with the weight to be able to diagnose a disease within time. The   (IAP) has come up with growth charts for the purpose which can be downloaded free of cost. 
 
 Prof Vijaylakshmi Bhatia, SGPGIMS, said, “Height is often termed as a mirror of the society’s well being. A multi-centric study, of which we were a part, found that urban teenagers were about two inches taller than their rural counterparts in the 1990s. It is for this that the IAP has come up with revised growth charts.” 
 
 She said that many pediatricians monitor a baby’s weight but are not regular with the height. IAP’s growth charts include a section on weight for height and age and help in assessing overweight status of the child. 
 
 Faculty, endocrinology department,  , Dr Rajni Sharma said parents can easily judge if their child is shorter than his/her peers or not. However, the challenge is that children are brought very late to the specialist.
 
 “Height of a person is related to that of the parents but a number of hormonal issues can arrest the growth. Many of these issues can be adequately addressed if the child is brought by to us by 5-6 years of age. But majority of the children coming to us are 11-12 years of age when interventions do no yield best outcomes,” she said. 
 
 Faculty, endocrinology department, Prof Subhash Yadav said that height issues may also arise because of growth hormone deficiency — a medical condition in which the body doesn’t produce enough growth hormone that is essential to stimulate development of tissues and bones. 
 
 “The problem can be mitigated in more than 50% of the children,” he said, adding that parents must monitor the height of their baby even at the time of immunisation.
 
