BENGALURU: Pragun Padukoli and Shruti Karthik observed something different about bananas. "I bought a banana, put it in my basket and after seven days, wanted to eat it. It was summer and the banana had turned black. I didn't feel like eating it. Pragun noticed something similar recently. We discussed it with our science teacher who guided us to think how we could increase their shelf life and prevent them from ripening fast," said Shruti. 

 The two class 6 of the Sishu Griha school in Thippasandra, near Indiranagar, were among many children who showcased their work at the   at the   on Saturday. "We found that if you keep bananas in vaccum containers and refrigerate them or keep them in double-layered clay pots filled with sand or water between the layers, the bananas don't ripen for over a week," said Pragun.
 
 Their parents are thrilled about the solution. "Children should ask questions and spaces like these help nurture their curiosity," said Shruti's father Karthik Srinivasan. Pragun's mother said that indoor teaching is not enough for children to get excited about science.
 
 The museum came alive with hundreds of parents, toddlers,   and  , thronging the fest will be open on Sunday too. While many installations were curated by technical experts of the museum, schoolchildren exhibited their science projects and workshops on making things out of rejects and scrap. 
 
 Shaila Desai from Mumbai came with family for her son's abacus competition in Bengaluru and took them to the fest before leaving the city. "We always go to the Nehru Science Centre in Mumbai during major events and at times on weekends. My son is interested in science and mathematics and he gets ideas from these places. We thought of taking him to the museum and the visit was quite interesting," she said.
 
 Chandraprakash J, class 8 student of KK English School and his friends, learnt how to make bags from plantain leaves and Amit Kamble and his friends from New Polytechnic College, Sholapur came to Bengaluru for an industry visit. N were inspired by the digital image board. Chandrakanth S A, A parent of two, said, "Unfortunately, such events are rare in present times. But I keep taking my sons to planetarium and museum and science fairs in schools to keep their curiosity alive."
 
 
