JAIPUR: Assuring action against the guilty in the scuffle between Kota MLA Chandrakanta Meghwal, her supporters and the police, senior BJP leaders on Friday hinted that police should have refrained from taking a harsh step.

 Following the directives of chief minister  , state BJP president Ashok   along with cabinet minister Prabhu Lal Saini reached Kota to enquire the scuffle between Kota MLA, her supporters and the police earlier this week. The two visited the hospital the BJP workers who were injured in the attack and also interacted with the other local party workers and the police officers. 
 
 The two senior leaders interacted with the party workers at a meeting, during which some party workers strongly voiced their anger towards the police. Following the meeting, another Kota MLA   if anybody would raise his hand on the party workers, he would ‘twist his neck.’ Parnami, though, refused to comment on that.
 
 At a media interaction, Parnami said that the guilty would not be spared. “Appropriate action would be taken against the guilty. We have meet and interacted with both the concerned parties and will submit our report over the incident to the chief minister,’’ said Parnami. Saini, while interacting with the media, also said that they will submit the report to CM Vasundhara Raje. ``Whoever is guilty will be punished. However, the police should have refrained from taking an extreme step,’’ he said.
 
 A scuffle had broken out between the party workers and the policemen at the   police station in Kota on Monday evening, when the workers were protesting the police issuing a challan to a BJP worker. Things took turn for a worse when the argument turned into a fight and the Meghwal’s husband slapping a cop.
 
 Five FIRs were registered by both the sides after the incident and the political pressure forcing five policemen including the Circle Inspector, allegedly slapped by the MLA’s husband, being sent to police lines. With allegations being levelled on both side, the state government handed over the enquiry into the incident to DIG, Intelligence. 
 
 Kota MLAs including Meghwal on Thursday had met the chief minister Vasundhara Raje at the  , during which she assured them appropriate action the guilty. She later directed Parnami and Saini to visit Kota and get a first-hand report from the spot.
 
