JAIPUR: It’s rare for modern festivals, that too one on literature, to catch the popular imagination and report ever-increasing participation, both in quality and volume, year after year.

 Into its 10th anniversary, the   Festival (JLF) has done exactly that, attracting literary luminaries, international publishers and critics from across the world with an audience to match.
 
 The numbers have grown exponentially and the 15-page schedule for the five-day fest that begins on January 19 does in a way make one ponder the organiser’s claim to being ‘the greatest literary show on earth’ and the largest free event.
 
 Exaggerations apart, the milling crowds at festival venues are a fact and one which may keep away Ameena Saiyid, managing director of  , Pakistan, this year.
 
 Speaking to this reporter at the first Kumaon Literary Festival two years ago, Saiyid had said that she would never return for the  . “The crowd is beyond the manageable,” she had said.
 
 But not everyone is like Saiyid, though. Last year, publishers from Australia had come to the fest hoping to catch prominent authors at one place and start a similar event back home.
 
 This year too, it is a cast of star performers – from experimental American poet Anne Waldman, who will be delivering the keynote address along with our own Gulzar, to Kannada writer S L Bhyrappa, whose ‘early life’ bit on Wikipedia reads like a short story by itself!
 
 The sessions cover a range of topical issues, from Brexit and capitalism – Cambridge economist Ha-Joon Chang will address some sessions – to one on ‘Freedom to Dream’. There is also a session on ‘Murder, Madness and the Oxford English Dictionary’.
 
 Chief minister   too will participate and discuss leopards in the state at a session titled ‘Jawai: The Land of the Leopard’.
 
 Malini Nair from Delhi, who is participating in the festival, said, “Just a look at the schedule makes me tired!”
 
 It’s almost hard to believe that when the first lit fest was held 10 years ago, only 18 authors attended the event and that too for an audience of about 100 people!
 
