Imphal: A total of 623 blockades and 15 years on, the direct effects of the intermittent glitches in day-to-day functioning have had a palpable impact on the prices of commodities and poll budgets of political parties. The biggest hit, however, has been taken by the state’s banking sector.

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious   scheme, which seems to have stopped short at the foothills of the hill districts, is the biggest casualty. The hill districts are home to over 30% of the state’s population.
 
 The Prime Minister’s Jan-Dhan Yojana website states that till February 15, a total of 6,82,816 Jan-Dhan accounts have been opened in the state, which accounts for just 25% of the total population. 
 
 A key functionary of a state-owned bank said growth of the state’s economy has been sluggish because of frequent bandhs and blockades, coupled with a law and order breakdown due to militancy. “Majority of the people in the remote rural areas, particularly in the hill districts, are not drawn to banking. Several factors have led to his — the remoteness of these locations, bad roads and an overall poor financial health,” he said.
 
 For BJP, which is looking to dislodge the ruling Congress from the seat of power, the focus on “bandh culture” is a priority in its election campaign. “Our slogan is bandh-free, blockade-free and developed Manipur. This culture has to be stopped in its tracks if we are to develop  ,” state BJP president Bhabananda Singh said. 
 
 But there are more than a few challenges when it comes to boosting the state’s economic sector and banking outreach.
 
 The state has the highest concentration of unbanked blocks in the country, a majority of which are in interior villages, deprived entirely of banking or financial services. The state also has one of the lowest levels of financial inclusion in the country.
 
 A source said the bank branch-to-population ratio is also very poor in the state, which has become a major concern for the government. For a population of 27,21,756 (2011 Census), there are just about 158 bank branches and 199 ATMs. “This is extremely low, and in rural areas the penetration of banks is very poor,” the source added.
 
 Official records show that there are 21 commercial banks, one regional rural bank, three state-owned cooperative banks. The credit-deposit ratio of the banks at the end of the current financial year stood at 395 against the national average of 75%. The present state government is constructing integrated complexes in 27 unbanked block headquarters under the Tribal Areas Inclusive Growth Project in a bid to establish more bank branches in the interior areas.
 
 
