CHENNAI:  , cofounder of PipeCandy, a SaaS startup was interviewing a candidate for the position of a designer. While the candidate walked in without a resume, his every other sentence ended with a ‘bro’, short for “brother’.

 “While I know I should not be too judgemental, I am also looking for ways to eliminate candidates with least amount of effort. A conversation starting with ‘bro’ makes me nervous — what if he addresses a client the same way,” said Ramaswamy.
 
  While most employers agree that terms like ‘Bro’, ‘dude’ and ‘ji’ might be acceptable once familiarity sets in at the workplace, candidates come for interviews with the preconception that an open culture starts from Day 1. And this is not limited to startups. Senior professionals with MNCs have also cited instances of candidates taking to a casual attitude.
 
 Vivek Iyer, assistant manager, HR with a global BFSI company is often faced with candidates who do not take the interview seriously. Using ‘bro’, ‘dude’ or ‘aye’ in a group discussion or using SMS language in a written comprehension, not keeping the phone on silent these are all red flags for Iyer. “I may not reject the candidate but it is noted. Two counts of unprofessional behaviour is enough for me to reject them or reduce their chances,” said Iyer.
 
 What is also being considered as acceptable or part of the   is the lack of general awareness. When Iyer asked a candidate who the ex-RBI governor was, the response he got was ‘that Rajan chap’. “When you interview for a BFSI company, you must know the expansion of RBI or the basics of GST. It is unacceptable to be lackadaisical about these things,” he said.
 
 The usage of terms like ‘bro’ and ‘dude’ have become common at workplaces these days. As companies move towards flat structures and an open culture, a lot of age old requirements such as addressing seniors with ‘Sir’ or ‘Ma’am’, wearing formals are being dropped. “Hierarchical approach has now become an archaic sentiment. In startups where even the founders are millennials, there is stress on innovative thinking rather than adhering to norms. 
 
 Candidates applying to startups are attracted to this open ecosystem as it fosters transparency and interactive communication, relaxed dress codes, flexible work times, creative thinking and access to leadership,” said Thammaiah BN, MD, Kelly Services India Pvt Ltd.
 
 Employers are constantly coming face to face with candidates who have a poor understanding of English or basic general knowledge.  , cofounder,  , has had instances where candidates thought   (Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin) was a sweetmaker or thought momos was a disease. “I have never been a fan of the ‘Sir / Madam’ culture. Hence, in our company, everyone from the CEO to the office boy gets to choose a ‘handle’. I picked ‘d’ as it's the hexadecimal for the number 13. 
 
 While interviewing, I actually look for people who are not too polite. I want people who have strong opinions and have the courage to stand up for them. But when it comes to client facing roles, I only choose people who can be as deferential as required. Using SMS lingo in emails is a deal breaker,” said Nagpal.
 
