PATNA: The principal of premier   (PMCH) is in trouble with the state police HQ ordering his arrest for assaulting a  .

 The incident took place on November 16 last year in full public view. In a video that went viral, PMCH principal   was seen and heard beating college’s PG (anaesthesia) student   with a policeman’s stick and calling him names. The senior and junior doctors later lodged police cases against each other.
 
 Finding the accusation against Dr Sinha true, Bihar Police’s CID IG (weaker sections) Anil Kishore Yadav has ordered his arrest. "Instead of investigating the two cases together, DSP Kailash Prasad submitted separate supervision reports, whimsically declaring the accusation against the PG student true quite early while delaying the investigation against Dr Sinha," the IG said at a press conference in Patna on Saturday.
 
 Apparently irked at the "injustice about to be meted out to a dalit", the IG used terms like "shameless", "biased", "atrocious", "mechanical" and "contrary to facts" to refer to the investigation into the case and its supervision by  , including DSP (town) Kailash Prasad, City SP (central)   and DIG (central range) Shalin.
 
 "DSP Prasad ignored the clinching evidence that the video is. Even eyewitnesses were not examined," he said, regretting SP Kushwaha and DIG Shalin mechanically agreed with the DSP’s flawed findings.
 
 "Dr Sinha brazenly took law into his own hands and assaulted Dr Alok, and later exaggerated his case against the PG student. By virtue of his post, the principal could put pressure on the accused and witnesses and also tamper with the evidence. It is fit case against Dr Sinha under the Schedued Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act," the IG wrote in his arrest order.
 
 Referring to Dr Alok’s conduct during the brawl, the IG stated in the order the video shows the verbal aggressiveness of Dr Alok was not criminal in nature. "Legal experts should have been consulted to analyse and opine whether or not Dr Alok’s punch was an act of self defence. Under no circumstances, however, it appears to be voluntarily causing hurt to Dr Sinha. It is no graver than a crime under Section 334 IPC (voluntarily causing hurt due to provocation)," the IG said.
 
 Incidentally, Dr Alok has already lodged complaints with the Bihar Human Rights Commission and the state health department, alleging the principal was threatening to spoil his career if he did not withdraw the case against him. Due to retire in July 2017, principal Dr Sinha has not been seen on the PMCH campus since Friday.
 
 
 
 The Bihar government’s health department took cognizance of the ugly face-off between PMCH principal Dr S N Sinha and PG student Dr Alok Kumar in November 2016, and ordered a probe by the director-in- chief. He was asked to submit his report within a week. Two months on, the report has not been submitted. Asked about Dr Sinha, a senior health official told TOI on Saturday, "If he is arrested, he would be deemed suspended after 48 hours." The IMA, which had given a clean chit to the principal, refused to comment on the arerst order against Dr Sinha.
 
