BENGALURU: Congress vice-president   said on Friday that Prime Minister Narendra   and the   ( ) were rewriting history to silence the voice of Indians, and in specific, that of the oppressed classes.

 At the inauguration of the three-day global seminar on ‘Reclaiming Social Justice, Revisiting Ambedkar’ hosted by the Karnataka government to mark the 126th birth anniversary of B R  , Rahul recalled Adolf Hitler: “There is a new global epidemic wherein leaders are trying to strangle reality, inspired by Hitler's way of thinking. Modi wants to create a perfect history of India and thereby silence the oppression against sections of people who have suffered due to age-old practices and discrimination.”
 
 From plastic surgery to nuclear weapons, which Modi had invoked as being ancient Indian practices of mythological gods, Rahul said the present dispensation is trying to gloss over the realities of the nation. “There have been good and bad sides to India, and we need to accept it and change it. The Modi government is trying to wipe out history and create a perfect India, thereby strangling the reality of Vemulas and Akhlaqs,” he added.
 
 He said the BJP and RSS want to destroy Ambedkar's Constitution with such silencing of voices and not care about the people it protects.
 
 Earlier, chief minister Siddaramaiah said the idea of India as a plural society is at the crossroads. “Values that our civilization and culture held in high esteem are facing a critical test in view of the onslaught of divisive and exclusivist ideas,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah said the recent spate of communal and caste-based attacks has shown that people cannot afford to rest. Endorsing Rahul’s views, the CM said: “Today, we are told that being a good Indian means we have to ignore the inequality and exploitation in our midst; that we need to adhere to rigid norms regarding food, clothing, language and free speech; that we have to privilege the majoritarian view of India. I reject such a view as it is totally opposed to the letter and spirit of our Constitution.”
 
 
 Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the media while speaking about demonetization and hinted that journalists were against Narendra Modi's policies. “When demonetization happened, the media in private spoke of it as ‘insanity’ by PM Narendra Modi, but in public, termed it a ‘stroke of genius’,” he said.
 
 
 
 The Karnataka government launched two services from the social welfare department at the inaugural event of the B R Ambedkar International Conference in Bengaluru. The two services include a mobile application called Kalyana for people to use to avail the benefits and schemes of the social welfare department. The other service launched was a 24-hour helpline called Surakshanethra for SC/ST hostel students.
 
 
 The recent election for the President of India saw two Dalits contest against each other. While the ruling party contested one candidate, Ram Nath Kovind, the opposition also fielded Meira Kumar, another Dalit. This is the power of Ambedkar.
 
 Nobel Laureate Kailash Sathyarthi on Ambedkar and his philosophy.
 
