BHOPAL: The district court has issued arrest warrants under Section 420 against officials of  , Bairagarh for giving false declaration about CBSE affiliation.

 While hearing a case dating to 2012,   on September 11 issued the warrants (a copy of which is with TOI) against Fr Alex Lakra, the then school principal and Fr Alphonse Tirkey, the then secretary of the school. Both officials are reportedly evading arrests by changing locations.
 
 In 2012, parents Nitesh Lal and Gopal Mukhriya had lodged a complaint alleging that they were duped by the school which claimed to be affiliated with CBSE.
 
 “The school deceived parents by claiming it was affiliated to CBSE. From school website to school dairy and fee receipt book the school’s affiliation with CBSE was printed prominently. School fee too was taken as per CBSE norms. When parents lodged a complaint, and sought to know from CBSE Ajmer the status on affiliation, it came to light that the said school was not affiliated to the board,” said advocate Santosh Sharma.
 
 Following this, a case was registered at Khajuri police station, Bairagrah and the district court Bhopal, he said.
 
 The court order also states that the case file had been sent to Rajya Siksha Kendra Bhopal, district education officer for further guidance on disciplinary action.
 
 In 2012, former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Dhruv Narayan Singh had raised the issue in the state assembly. In reply, the state government quoting school management admitted that the school was not affiliated with CBSE. The official document reveals that the school was not only claiming fake CBSE affiliation but also was constructed illegally on agricultural land.
 
 The school has been functioning since 2008, and has now managed to get CBSE affiliation.
 
 “The school took fees from parents in the name of CBSE affiliation without having it. We put all efforts to expose the lies of the school without thinking about the future of our kids. But, police have not yet arrested the officials,” said Nitesh Lal, the parent who exposed the irregularity.
 
 Another parent Gopal Mukhriya claimed a “mafia” is operating in schools, as “many schools are fooling parents by getting CBSE affiliation for one branch and using it for the rest.”
 
 He said although they had won the case in the court, the issue remains unresolved.
 
 “School education department should come up with a policy. Schools working without any recognition should be taken over by government,” he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Fr Athnas Lakra SJ principal of Campion school, Arera Colony, said, “It was a mistake by the authorities (who were previously in-charge) who got the school dairies and stationery printed. The school is currently affiliated with CBSE.”
 
 However, Kuldeep K, principal of Campion School, Bairagrah did not attend to calls despite several attempts.
 
