VISAKHAPATNAM: Cockfights are set to take a backseat this Sankranti with another tough competition getting ready to hit the big screen — Chiranjeevi’s Khaidi No 150 and Nandamuri Balakrishna’s Gauthamiputra Satakarni.

 While Khaidi No 150 is scheduled for release on January 11, Balayya’s film will hit the screens on January 12. Khaidi No 150 is Chiranjeevi’s 150th film, while Satakarni is Balakrishna’s 100th. 
 
 According to film distributors, Khaidi No 150 is set to be screened at 120 theatres in the three north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam in the first week while Satakarni will be screened at 80 theatres.
 
 Sources said this is the fifteenth time   and Balakrishna have locked horns on the silver screen. The films Intigattu of Chiranjeevi and Mangammagari Manavadu of Balakrishna were the first to be released at the same time in 1984. On that occasion, Balakrishna’s movie went on to become a blockbuster while Chiranjeevi’s film flopped at the box office. 
 
 After 13 years, both actors are now set to compete again this Sankranti. Incidentally, it is the ninth time the actors are releasing their films on Sankranti. 
 
 Chiranjeevi is making a come back to the silver screen after a gap of nine years with Khaidi No 150, a remake of the blockbuster Tamil action drama Katthi that deals with a farmer’s suicide in India
 
 Gauthamiputra Satakarni is about a great Telugu emperor.
 
 A Chandrasekhar, a Ballaya fan in Vizag, said, “Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh government have waived off the entertainment tax for Satakarni, while tickets for Khaidi No 150 will cost more. Chiru’s film is also a remake of a Tamil movie, while Satakarni is a biopic.”
 
 Lalam Chandrasekhar, president of Ramcharan Tej Fans Welfare Association for AP Telangana said, “Khaidi No 150 has already earned Rs 35 crore for the first day show, which is higher than Baahubali’s first day collections of Rs 33.10 crore. Across AP and Telangana, Khaidi No 150 will be screened in 1,400 theatres. The number of theatres will decrease from the next day when Satakarni is released.”
 
 Narava Prakasa Rao, secretary of Vizag Film Society, however said, “I doubt if both the movies will run for long like the old days.”
 
 
