JAIPUR: The   revised fare list will come into force from Saturday .

 The commuters will now have to pay more for  . The   (JMRC) has increased fares by up to Rs 3.
 
 The officials claimed that despite the hike, the commuters using smart cards would have to pay lesser. The corporation will provide 15% discount to its smart card users.
 
 “Commuters can buy smart cards online or from any station. The online card can be purchased using a  . The smart card can be recharged from the JMRC website. The commuter can have a maximum balance of Rs 1,000 in this card and its validity will be three years,“ an official said.
 
 The fares during peak and non-peak hours will be different.
 
 The JMRC has fixed peak hours from 5 pm to 9.45 pm.
 
 A senior JMRC official said, “The   will start at 6.40 am every day .A total of 134 trips will be conducted in a day . The non-peak There are nine stations on the 9.25-km Metro corridor. During the peak hours, from the starting point, the fare for next two stations has increased to Rs 11from Rs 10.
 
 For the next three sta hours have been fixed from 6.40 am to 4.59 pm. Currently, trains run for nearly 15 hours every day, out of which 4.45 hours have been chosen as peak hours.“
 
 He added, “The JMRC will run a train every 15 minutes during non-peak hours and 10 minutes during peak hours.“ tions, the fare during peak hours would be Rs 17 (earlier, it was Rs 15). Passengers who would be travelling beyond the fifth station would now have to pay Rs 23 instead of Rs 20. During non-peak hours, the fare has been increased by Re 1 for first two stations, so now the commuters will have to pay Rs 6.
 
 Similarly , for the next three stations, the fare during non-peak hours would be Rs 11.
 
 Commuters who would be travelling beyond the fifth station would now have to pay Rs 17 during the non-peak hours. A senior JMRC official informed TOI, “The revised fare list will be applicable for next two years, that is till April 1, 2019. The proposal to increase the fares was approved at the 31st board meeting of JMRC last week.“
 
