Surat: Thousands of commuters and pedestrians passing from under the leaking Sahara Darwaja railway underpass would heave a sigh of relief. After a very long time, Western Railway (WR) will be kick-starting the work for setting up a temporary sheeting structure to prevent leakage of excreta and urine from the trains passing from the tracks above Sahara Darwaja railway underpass from Saturday. TOI had raised the issue in the past over the plight of the commuters. Around 2.5 lakh vehicles and 1.50 lakh pedestrians pass from Sahara Darwaja railway underpass daily. The vehicles and pedestrians have to literally stop whenever the trains pass from the tracks, to avoid filthy droppings.  Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has issued a traffic diversion notice, commencing from May 13, for a period of one month, at Sahara Darwaja railway underpass. As per the arrangement, the temporary tin-sheeting at the railway underpass will be completed in two phases. In the first phase starting from May 13, the traffic coming from Kadodara toward Sahara Darwaja will be diverted towards Parvat Patia junction via BRTS canal route, Anjana Railway overbridge to Kinnari talkies at Ring Road.  In the second phase, which will begin after 15 days, the traffic going toward Sahara Darwaja from Delhi Gate and Ring Road will be diverted from Lal Darwaja to Surat railway station, Poddar Arcade to Old Bombay Market.  The textile traders, however, have opposed the traffic diversion from Parvat Patia to Kinnari talkies as the entire road from Bhatena has been dug up by the SMC.  Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) chairman Devkishan Manghani told TOI, “Before issuing the traffic diversion notice, the SMC must complete the pending road construction work near Bhatena. Transport vehicles and traders and those coming to the market are facing heavy traffic jam during peak hours as the road has been dug up.” RTI activist Rajesh Modi said, “Finally, the WR has agreed and the work on temporary structure to prevent leakage from Sahara Darwaja railway underpass will be starting soon.”