PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad reiterated his allegation on Tuesday that chief minister   was aware of the fraudulent transfer of government funds to the bank accounts of Srijan Mahila Vikash Sahyog Samiti (SMVSS) and he severed ties with the grand alliance as part of the “deal” with BJP to escape any action against him in this connection.

 Lalu claimed that the CAG report in 2008 had revealed the diversion of government funds to Srijan, but the Nitish government allowed it to continue. “Nitish keeps saying that he came to know about dishonouring of Bhagalpur treasury cheque only on August 7 this year. However, as per the Bank of Baroda accounts statement available with us, total 14 cheques were dishonoured between July 10 and 29 this year. Nitish visited Delhi and met BJP central leadership several times during this period. It was during this period that he struck a deal with the BJP not to nail him in the scam and he, in return, would dissolve the Grand Alliance government in Bihar,” Lalu alleged at a presser. 
 
 The RJD chief alleged that it was because of the “the deal” that Nitish and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, who was the finance minister during major period of the scam, had not been named in the FIRs lodged either by the CBI or the state police in connection with the scam. 
 
 “We have several documents with us to prove direct or indirect involvement of Nitish and SuMo in the scam and we will keep on bringing them to the public domain till both are booked in the Srijan scam and sent behind bars,” Lalu said. 
 
 Talking about the financial irregularities under the Srijan scam, Lalu’s younger son and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said: “The CAG report stated that Srijan claimed Rs9.10 lakh as incentive for formation of 91 self-help groups (SHGs) during 2003-04. However, it was later found that none of the SHGs existed.”
 
 Quoting from the 2008 CAG report, Tejashwi said: “Based on the scrutiny of bank records, it was found that funds to the tune of Rs205 crore were transferred to the Srijan as subsidy between March 2004 and March 2006. However, the projects run by the Srijan were closed in April 2006 upon instruction from the then Bhagalpur DM with a directive to the NGO to refund the amount. Thus, the government had been aware of the misutilisation of funds by Srijan since 2008.”
 
 Tejashwi further said that Nitish should now point-wise explain in public on the various charges being made against his government in connection with the Srijan scam. “We are soon going to move the Supreme Court for judicial monitoring of the ongoing CBI probe into the scam,” Tejashwi added.
 
 
