PANAJI: Congress managed to retain more than 50 per cent of the seats in Tiswadi taluka but lost the man who helped them protect the turf.

 Just like the state assembly election in 2012, Congress grabbed three seats in Tiswadi, leaving the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with just two, but the loss of United Goans Party (UGP) leader Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate in Panaji upset calculations. 
 
 Monserrate had entered into a not-so-secret understanding with Congress – who expelled him in 2015 for anti-party activities – prior to the elections and it was his handpicked choices who were handed tickets. Monserrate’s wife Jennifer (Taleigao), close friend Antonio Fernandes (St Cruz) and former sports minister Francis Silveira (Agasaim) all had Monserrate to thank for Congress tickets and even their victory.
 
 “I can call him my boss. I won because of his efforts but I am saddened by his defeat in Panaji,” said St Cruz’s newly-elected legislator Antonio, popularly known as Tony.
 
 Tony won against the odds at a time when independent candidate Rudolf Fernandes appeared to have the upper hand. The emergence of Hemant Golatkar (BJP) was also a factor but, evidently, Monserrate knew what he was doing when he demanded the Congress ticket for political lightweight Tony.
 
 Even in St Andre, Silveira had the Taleigao strongman to thank while Jennifer’s surprise victory in Taleigao against ‘favourite’ Dattaprasad Naik had the Monserrate stamp all over it.
 
 Monserrate, however, miscalculated his hold over Panaji, a constituency represented by the BJP since 1994. Believing that he had enough backing from his corporators in the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Babush gambled by choosing a new constituency for the third time in as many elections, only to suffer electoral defeat for the first time in his career.
 
 “Babush was confident of his victory but made wrong calculations. He didn’t expect AAP to poll close to 2,000 votes and Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) didn’t eat into BJP’s vote bank as they got only 300 votes. Babush also didn’t have a connect with people (in Panaji) as much as in places like Taleigao and St Cruz,” said a corporator who worked closely with Monserrate during the elections.
 
 The fifth seat, Cumbharjua, was bagged by Pandurang Madkaikar, who switched allegiance from Congress to BJP prior to the elections. Madkaikar, who was hand in glove with Monserrate in the past, polled more than 12,000 votes for a huge victory over Xavier Fialho, his rival from the Congress.
 
 
