KOLKATA: Queries under the Right to Information (RTI) Act by a socio-legal activist and researcher on alleged plans to set up an extension of the 114-year-old   of Kolkata in New Delhi seem to have revealed unflattering details regarding the prevailing situation in the institution. 

 Immediately after the Central Information Commissioner (CIC) passed directions against the ministry of culture (MoC) in August,  , the director general (DG) of the institution, was replaced by  , who continues to hold the post of DG, National Archives. 
 
 The first RTI application on the matter was made to MoC by Biswanath Goswami in 2016. After the replies didn’t satisfy him, the activist-researcher filed an appeal that brought about the same results; he filed a case with the CIC and the matter was heard on August 7. 
 
 “Initially, the MoC maintained that all my information is baseless. Finally, I produced a copy of an email sent by MoC to the personal account of former DG Arun Kumar Chakraborty a year ago, urging him to open the extension counter of the   in New Delhi soon. Completely at a loss, the MoC official then accused me of being politically motivated. On August 24, the CIC not only showcaused the MoC official but directed him to provide me with all information and details within seven days. I suspect that Chakraborty had to go as the mail was leaked,” Goswami said. 
 
 While passing his directions, the CIC noted: “I am happy and surprised that even today somebody is taking interest in the library for public purposes. Why is the MoC purposely hiding facts by passing out misleading information? Why are you not providing information to him?”
 
 The MoC hastily sent Goswami more than 114 pages of unedited documents, including many with file notings. While going through them, the activist came to know how funds were misused and proper attendance records weren’t maintained. The firefighting system in the library was inadequate and several important and rare manuscripts had either been destroyed or damaged. In one of the documents written to her senior, a chief public information officer (CPIO) wrote how the PIO at the library not only refused to provide information on attendance but also made ‘offensive’ remarks. (TOI has access to all the documents). 
 
 “Lack of reader-friendly services is aiding plans to shift the library out of Kolkata. Attempts to set up an extension counter in New Delhi is just the first step. Under international rules, an institution such as National Library can’t have such extensions. Its importance would get reduced and it would also get derecognised by international organisations,” Goswami feared. 
 
 Raghavendra Singh, the present DG, could not be contacted. TOI sent him a WhatsApp message, seeking a comment, to which there was no response till late Wednesday evening. 
 
 
