NAGPUR: Since three years, a faction of people is   to save trees that they had planted wanting some   Square. Sadly, they are crusading against the  , many of them educated and professionals, who, are not allowing the trees to grow for trivial reasons.

 A couple of days ago, a fully-grown almond tree that was planted roadside was poisoned by pouring acid on it. It was first chopped-off from the crown and what remains now is a wilted stem. 
 
 The tree was suspectedly killed on the sly to ensure clear view of a huge advertisement hoarding placed on a corner of the square. Few months back, two trees on the same stretch of road were chopped-off from their bases.
 
 Noticing that the street was bereft of shade-giving trees, a small group of green lovers, that has medical shop owner Sandeep Rane, fruit seller Rahul Saroj, BJP worker Manoj Fanse and a shop employee Baban Nikam, had planted these trees in 2014.
 
 They went out of the way to ensure the trees’ healthy growth and survival. Saroj took the responsibility of watering the saplings daily while Fanse and Rane installed tree-guards. “One morning, we saw that two trees were uprooted. They were between 8 and 10 feet tall. The same day, Baban purchased ‘badaam’ seeds and re-planted them,” says Rane.
 
 The group says that irregular chopping of trees happens overnight. “We don’t know for sure who is behind this pruning spree. Seeing that the trees continued to grow despite cutting branches, people found a new way of damaging them by using chemicals,” says Fanse.
 
 Over the years, dozens of trees were planted by such individual initiatives but hardly half of them are surviving. Last year, a medical practitioner, who runs a clinic in the area, hired contractors to chop off a huge Neem tree as “visibility to his clinic board was getting affected.”
 
 Fanse recalls how difficult it was to persuade the doctor to stop cutting the trees. “It took a long quarrel and a lot of convincing to persuade him to stop the work. We were surprised how a doctor was unaware of the goodness of greenery,” he says.
 
 A nearby lane, too, reflects insensitivity of people towards environment with trees being cut off at will for pettiest excuses. “We had planted Neem trees on the roadside. But a resident chopped one of them saying it was hiding their house. Branches of another tree were heavily trimmed as some people did not like the leaf litter,” the group says.
 
 The group is now planning to lodge a First Information Report (FIR) against unidentified person at Bajaj Nagar police station. “We do not know who chopped off the trees or poured acid. But we will not give up and keep re-planting trees as many times as they will be damaged,” they say.
 
