KERI: In a major respite to Goa in the Mhadei water disputes case, the   has asked Union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) to submit a report on the environmental damage caused by the ongoing work of the Kalasa canal by Karnataka in Kankumbi. The canal is a link to divert water from Mhadei tributaries.

 In 2009, the court had asked MoEF not to allow Karnataka to continue the canal work without obtaining necessary environmental clearance. The court questioned as to how Karnataka went ahead with the work of the canal without obtaining it.
 
 The apex court directives came on an interlocutory application filed by   of Goa (MBAG), headed by former MLA Nirmala Sawant, against Karnataka to maintain status quo in respect of Kalasa-Bhandura project work in 2007. The application came up for hearing on Friday amidst reports of resumption of work by Karnataka for the last several weeks, after Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal (MWDT) ordered to plug both the vents of Kalasa canal in 2015.
 
 During the hearing of the case, MBAG counsel Bhavani Shankar   produced recent photographic evidence of the environmental damages caused by Karnataka, while working on the canal. He also argued that an earlier order of the Supreme Court passed on a plea filed by MBAG on February 20, 2009, was not implemented by the MoEF.
 
 Amicus curie A D Rao replied that MBAG application on this issue was irrelevant as the main petition in the Mhadei case was being heard before the MWDT.
 
 At this point of time, the Solicitor General of India, Ranjit Kumar sought time from the court to find out whether the order of February 20, 2009 had been implemented or not.
 
 Speaking to TOI, MBAG president Sawant said, “We have brought to notice of the apex court the violations committed by Karnataka and sought a direction to restrain Karnataka from proceeding with the continuation of the project in the eco-sensitive areas of Western Ghats without the approval under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and other related clearances from the MoEF.”
 
 The MBAG had filed the application against Karnataka in 2007, seeking a direction from the court to maintain status quo in the project and to obtain necessary approval from the central government under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980, for proceeding with the work.
 
 Karnataka government since October 2, 2006 till this date is making all possible attempts to complete the work of the Kalasa canal to facilitate diversion of the Kalasa nalla water in to the Malaprabha river. On October 16, 2006, A Raja, then Union minister of environment and forests wrote a letter to H Kumaraswamy, then chief minister of Karnataka, to advise the Karnataka state irrigation department not to take up any work on the project without obtaining the statutory clearances.
 
 Despite the letter,   (KNNL) continued with the work. MBAG’s counsel Gadnis visited Kankumbi on December 22, 2008, and filed a detailed photographic report of the violations and damages done by Karnataka to the ecology of the area. 
 
 A central-empowered committee submitted its report to the Supreme Court on February 18, 2009, which mentioned that Karnataka had not obtained environmental clearance. 
 
 On February 20, 2009, the Supreme Court during the hearing, had asked MoEF to examine the matter and not allow Karnataka to continue the work on the Kalasa canal.
 
 
