AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the   on Thursday slammed the police inspector of Gangapur police station and issued directives to the superintendent of police (Aurangabad rural) to initiate concrete action against him and submit a report within a month. 

 The single bench of Justice TV Nalawde issued the directions while hearing a bail petition filed by constable Ashok Nikam from whose custody murder accused   escaped while being taken back to prison from a court on January 24.
 
 The court asked police inspector Anirudh Nandedkar about the 'recovery' from the accused constable and the number of days of police custody for the constable remained in. The officer replied that there no recovery was made from Nikam, nor was his custody sought.
 
 Hearing his reply, the court came down heavily on the officer and asked: "How much money did you take from the accused? Did you not feel ashamed of taking money from accused?"
 
 The court went on to say that such officers should be set right at an early stage, so that society does not suffer because of them. Justice Nalawde, after posing a volley of questions, ordered that a letter be sent to the Aurangabad SP seeking strict action against the inspector.
 
 Nandedkar could not be reached in spite of repeated attempts.
 
 Constable Nikam, violating all the norms, allegedly got into a private car brought by the murder suspect's wife Riya Sharma, brother Deepak, co-accused Bapu Jagtap who was out on bail and travelled a distance of about 50 km heading straight to Santosh's bungalow in the Satara area.
 
 The accused, Santosh, on the pretext of spending some time with Riya, went inside the bedroom while making Nikam sit in the guest room. After sometime, when Santosh did not come out, Nikam knocked on the door, only to find that Santosh had escaped.
 
 The same evening, Nikam tried to lodge a complaint with the Kranti Chowk police station by cooking up a story that Santosh had fled from the   after getting out of the state transport bus.
 
 Superintendent of police   came to know about the facts and ordered registration of an FIR. Accordingly, reserve police inspector Himmat Mewar registered a complaint with Vaijapur police station against Santosh, his wife, brother, constable Nikam and Bapu Jagtap.
 
 Santosh is on trial for killing a businessman by shooting him in the head and throwing his body parts at different places. 
 
