NASHIK: It’s time to relish a new wonder from the country’s   — a grape that tastes like mango.

 Unlike other varieties, this grape from the farm of   at Ashawadi village in Dindori tehsil of Nashik district also smells like mango when it is matured or is ready to harvest. 
 
 “It feels as if you are walking through a mango orchard as you move around the vineyard of the mango-flavour grapes,” said Tidke, who has cultivated the new seeded variety of the fruit. 
 
 “The grape tastes different from the regular ones...you feel like you are having a mango. When the grapes are ready to harvest, the entire vineyard smells like that of mango,” said Tidke.
 
 The farmer had brought the stems of this variety from the Pune-based   in 2012 and planted it. It took him around four years for the first harvest in 2016. 
 
 “This is the second year of harvest. I have a total 50 plants of the mango-flavoured grape. The produce is about 100 kg a season. This new variety has good demand from malls in Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad,” he added. Tidke also sends this variety of grapes to farmers’ market in Bandra, Mumbai. On an average, he gets a rate of about Rs 80-Rs 100 for a kg.
 
 The mango-flavoured grape is small in size — 8mm— as against the 18mm of the regular variety. Tidke said, “The seedless varieties are more available in the market and people also prefer those. But the seeded varieties are more nutritious. The mango-flavoured variety is, however, nutritious.”
 
 He has plans to brand and market the variety more vigorously. “I am going to increase the plantation. The variety may become popular if it is grown at large quantity and marketed properly.” 
 
 S Savant, a grape scientist from the National Research Centre, said, “The mango-flavoured grape with us came from a collection of the grape research centre of the agriculture university at Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh . It is originally a European variety used for wine and called Alphonso Lavellee. It is a seeded black variety and can also be used as table grapes.”
 
 Farmers of Nashik have cultivated a range of new varieties of grapes that are attracting hundreds at an exhibition of the fruit currently under way in the city. 
 
 Kailas Bhosle, chairman of the Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh’s science committee, said, “Before 1960, only the seeded varieties of grapes were under plantation. New seedless varieties came thereafter. Today, the maximum plantation of table grape varieties in the country is of Thomson variety, which is 60 years old. The seeded varieties disappeared during the course of time.” 
 
 Among the new varieties are ‘red glow’, ‘fakdi black beauty’ and ‘Italian white’, besides the one that tastes like mango.
 
 Apart from this, other regular grape varieties cultivated are ‘sonaka’, ‘new manjari’, ‘sonaka seedless’, Thompson, Ganesh, ‘manik chaman’, ‘sudhakar’, purple, jumbo purple, Nanasaheb Purple, Sharad black, flame and medica.
 
 Vidnyan Patil, a technical official from a grape firm, said, “We had put on display several varieties of grapes cultivated by farmers. Around 400 farmers have put on display their varieties. This time, there are five new grape varieties on display.” 
 
 Technical official Nilesh Sonawane said, “If there are 100 plants of grapes, then there may be one or two plants that different taste or size or different features. What the farmers do is that they develop these varieties.” 
 
