JAGERA (LUDHIANA): Day after a father-son duo of   followers were gunned down by masked men, their kin on Sunday refused to cremate the bodies till the assailants were arrested. Police were still clueless about the murderers and the motive even though they procured some CCTV footage from the area.

 Several rounds of parleys were held between the district administration officials and Dera management even as the bodies were kept at the Naam Charcha Ghar at Jagera village. The Dera also declared Satpal Kumar Joshi, 65, and his son Ramesh Kumar, 38, as martyrs.
 
 However, Khanna SSP Satinder Singh claimed in the evening that the Dera management has agreed to cremate the bodies on Monday.
 
 Sirsa-based Dera head   is hated by some Sikh groups after he allegedly dressed up as the 10th Sikh Master Guru Gobind Singh in 2007. Following this, Dera followers and radical Sikh groups had clashed on several occasions, causing tension between the two sides. Police are also probing if the murders were a fallout of this tension.
 
 “Till now there is no information about any personal animosity as the family has been saying that they had no dispute with anybody. We are looking at all angles, including terror,” the SSP said.
 
 The autopsy report said Ramesh was hit by three bullets from a .32 bore gun, while Satpal suffered a single injury in the head.
 
 The bodies were brought to Jagera, around 30 km from Ludhiana, in the morning after autopsy at  . Residents of Ahmadgarh, the neighbouring small town where the duo lived, also came to Jagera.
 
 As the followers began to gather in the village, a closed-door meeting of political committee and state committee of the Dera was held where discussions were held on staging a protest. Some of the followers even blocked the Ludhiana-Sangrur highway for half-an-hour and raised slogans against the administration.
 
 “The two are martyrs and their sacrifice would not go waste,” a Dera follower declared. Another called for an agitation against police.
 
 By evening a large crowd of Dera followers had gathered at the spot. “We’ve come from Dhuri, around 100 km from here,” said a young Dera follower.
 
 The deceased’s family said any decision on cremation would be taken by the Dera management. “I can’t tell anything, only the management will decide,” said Satpal’s younger son Mahesh. “My father and brother didn’t have any enemies. We confined ourselves to our work and service at the Dera,” he said.
 
 “Our family has been Dera followers for very long and both Ramesh and Mahesh used to visit Sirsa Dera in their childhood,” said Onkar Sharma, nephew of Satpal.
 
