The last time   came to Hyderabad was 15 years ago. She was filming a food documentary here, and that’s when she got the first taste of Hyderabadi biryani. “I learnt to make chicken biryani, which is my favourite Hyderabadi dish,” shares the internationally renowned food expert who can’t stop raving about the authentic dum biryani. “It’s a complete meal, and is a great thing to make for party. You just have to make a huge amount of it with a little bit of raita and chutney and you have done enough to make your guests go nom nom nom. Apart from that I love Andhra pickles. I have a thing for pickles, chillies,” says the 46-year-old who was in Hyderabad on Monday as part of her India tour. In a free-wheeling chat with Hyderabad Times, the ravishing South Indian beauty talks about how the gourmand in her was born in her grandmother’s humble two-stove kitchen in Chennai. Excerpts: 

 
 My education in food started from my grandmother’s kitchen where I used to hang a lot with the women of the family. That’s where the women hung out, that’s where the action used to be in the house. From childhood, I had an unlimited appetite, especially when it comes to pickles. I used to raid my grandmother’s pantry in search of pickle jars that used to be on the top shelves. To spare me from tummy problems the pickle jars would move higher on the shelves; but then I just got really good at climbing up the shelves. I’m a supertaster, I understand the taste of food in a way others cannot. One time my grandmother had to lock the kitchen to protect me from myself. 
 When I go back to the house now I can’t believe they used to cook for 10 people in those two burner stoves. My grandmother didn’t have a fridge till she was in her early 30s. And when she got it, it was meant only to store ice water. My grandmother didn’t believe in leftovers, she made every meal fresh. 
 
 
 
 I started my career in food very late. I attribute it to extensive travelling for my modelling career. While all the models would head for tourist spots, I would hunt for an open air market to discover new spices and flavours and taste different nationalities’ food. I don’t think I would have been able to write   unless I had done all the travelling. That’s why when young chefs come to me for an advice, I say, “Travel. No matter what your bank balance is, just travel.”
 
 
 
 I have tried lots of funny things, from duck testicles, bull penis to alligators and kangaroos. In Mexico I had ant egg. It’s not bad, unless you know what it is. I tried without knowing what it was, kinda looked like puffed rice. We have some interesting attitudes about food. I mean, what is the difference between an ant and a chicken, not much, you know. There won’t be that much of blood and flesh in an ant. But we have some conceptions in our head about what is normal and what is not. So even though you should not feel any weirder about having duck testicles or ant eggs, you can’t help it. And these prejudices run very deep in our subconscious just like perceptions about beauty.
 
 
 
 Before I started my culinary career, I was a model and an actress. Being a dark skinned model in America was very difficult. That’s a story any immigrant would tell you. In America being an American means being white. For most people if you are something other than white, even though you are an American born or raised in America, you are an Indian-American, African-American, Chinese-American or Mexican-American though they are American citizens for past 100 years. You feel a little handicapped. The scenario in India is no better. I find racism in the west and colour prejudice everywhere. Every time my grandmother used to say, don’t go outside, you will become dark, I used to cringe with nausea. Every time you log into matrimonial sites, the first thing you see is “fair bride or groom wanted”. 
 Modelling is a visual medium. It’s a business of selling clothes. It’s not you that they are rejecting. It’s about what they think is commercial and will sell their clothes. For a long time to be fair and thin was commercial. Although it’s hard not to take it personally. I was in a fashion week in Bombay and I was happy to see all kinds of skin tones on the ramp. Each one of them wore their beauty on their skin with grace. 
 
 
 
 Trust me, the Indian bodies are one of the most beautiful creations of nature. With Mumbai acid attack survivor,   and transgender   walking the ramp I can say things changing for good. There are many definitions of beauty. I am glad that the parameters are becoming less narrow for what it means to be striking or beautiful. There are thousands and thousands of women who feel shy because of the terrible things that happened to them. For people like Reshma Quereshi walking the ramp is a way to overcome something horrible into something positive. I think she and her family would prefer that she hadn’t been attacked that way just like my family and me wish I hadn’t gone through the pain and trauma of the car accident, but this is the life I have been given. We cannot always control what happens to us but we can control our reactions to them. I wore my scar and my skin with pride. Everyone should.
 
 
