BHOPAL:   in city have compiled a list of over 20 students of Class 10 and 12 who are suffering from  . The board had asked the schools to compile a list of diabetics so that they could be provided with a ‘snack break’ during examinations.

 Speaking to TOI, president   brother T Alex said all CBSE schools in Bhopal have given the list of students with type-1 diabetes and a special care would be taken for their snacks during exams.
 
 “We have informed all these students to provide genuine documents to support their cause. There are around 20 such students so far in our record,” he said.
 
  “Considering that there are sizeable number of children who are suffering with type 1 diabetes and need insulin injections at regular intervals to manage their blood glucose level, the board has decided that such students appearing for the board's Class 10 and 12 examinations are permitted to carry eatables during exam,” reads the circular from CBSE to schools in city.
 
 It further reads that these children need frequent meals to avoid hypoglycemia which may otherwise affect their health and performance.
 
 While coming to the examination centre, these students will be allowed to have or carry with them sugar tablets, chocolate, candy, fruits like Banana, apple, orange, snack items like sandwich and a small bottle of water (500 ml).
 
 However, the board has asked schools to observe and follow some modalities which necessitate such students to submit a certificate from a diabetologist along with full diabetic history, nature of their diabetes and the need for snacks during the examination which shall be forwarded by the principal of the school where the student is studying.
 
 Furthermore, the food items shall be kept with the invigilators at the examination centre concerned, who on the basis of student’s need shall hand over the eatables to these candidates.
 
 Earlier, Dr Ashok Jhingan, chairperson of the Delhi Diabetes Research Centre, approached the board to consider the matter.
 
 Speaking to TOI Dr Ashok said this has been a biggest apprehension among parents of such students. He said students with type-1 diabetes depend on insulin injections. They tend to suffer from headaches, irritability, restlessness and confusion when they have to wait for too long between meals.
 
 Asked about the number of students of all age groups in Madhya Pradesh having type-1 diabetes, he said the rough figure goes upto 7,000 students in state.
 
