Nashik:   allegedly failed to submit the complete set of documents related to admissions under the   (RTE) Act 2009 as sought by the   (NMC) by Thursday.

 The school has allegedly filled only 15 of the 100 seats under RTE while allotting the remaining to the open category for financial gain. The parents of these 85 students have accused the school of keeping them in the dark and charging them for admissions.
 
 Civic education officer   the school had been asked to submit documents related to RTE admissions, like address proof, income certificate, birth certificate and receipts.
 
 “The school had requested us to extend the date for submission of the documents by a day. Today (Thursday), the school authorities brought photo copies of some documents. However, we want the receipt books and account transaction slips,” he said.
 
 “It seems that two types of admission were given to one student (and there are 85 such students), but only the receipts will clarify this. We will have to check if the students admitted under RTE have paid the fees as well. But the school did not produce these documents,” the officer said.
 
 Upasani said that he had also sent a letter to the government to stop the reimbursement for RTE admissions to the school for the academic years 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. Morrover, he assured that if the school is found guilty and the approval is cancelled, then it will be his responsibility to get all the 3,000 students admitted in other schools.
 
 Principal Somu Nader denied the allegations. “We submitted photo copies of all the documents they wanted. We will know about the decision of the education department in a week.”
 
 Nader said, “We have given admission to 76 students under RTE so far and the other seats will also be filled soon.” 
 
 State edu dept launches probe: The state education department has launched a probe into admission process of the school. Deputy director of education   shot off a letter to the school seeking details besides forming a four-member panel headed by Upasani to investigate the matter.
 
