MUMBAI: The Maharashtra State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has pulled up the MIDC police for not following procedure in a complaint of child sexual abuse against the trustee and a teacher of an international school. The commission questioned why police had not arrested the accused named in the FIR and filed a charge sheet within the 60-90-day deadline.

 On May 18, police had booked the foreign national trustee and a female teacher from the school under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 after a complaint from the parents of a three-year-old student. However, no arrests have been made yet. At a hearing of the commission — the monitoring agency for the Act — on Tuesday, its member secretary A N   said, “Once an FIR is filed under the  , the accused should be arrested. It is the first time that an accused has not been arrested in such a case. There are chances that the accused could tamper (with) evidence. You (the police) have failed to perform your duty .“
 
 Further, Tripathi directed the police to follow process. “The police have filed a status report that the accused has not been arrested due to lack of evidence. However, the FIR has been registered under the POCSO Act, and the medical report has observed that sexual offence cannot be ruled out.Then why have police not arrested the accused? We are directing the police to follow process, arrest the accused and file the charge sheet,“ he said. The school authorities were represented by their advocate.
 
 A police officer from MIDC police station said, “So far we have recorded the statements of school teachers, ex-students and parents. But we did not find any evidence to establish the role of the suspects in the case.“
 
 The officer said they cannot arrest anybody without concrete evidence and that the probe was still on and they had not decided on closing it.
 
 “We also got medical assistance, but the examiners did not find any injury marks on the minor. Also, a lady police officer handling the case has been unable to talk to the minor and it is her mother who answers queries,“ said the officer.
 
 Police said the minor's parents have alleged that the molestation took place in January.
 
 The trustee had denied all the allegations in a lengthy email addressed to all students and parents, in which he said that the truth will prevail “in due course.“
 
 The trustee has been booked under Sections 4 (aggravated sexual assault), 6 (sexual assault), and 10 (sexual harassment) of the POCSO Act.
 
