NEW DELHI: Be prepared for continued snags on the  . That is what Delhi   had to say on Tuesday even as the Voilet line was hit during peak hours, causing delays and inconveniencing commuters.

 While the Tuesday incident was blamed on the repeated tripping of power lines that caused five trains to be cancelled and two to be delayed, the reason for the continued snags hitting the Blue line was attributed to the signalling system and the length of the line.
 
 Talking about the frequent snags plaguing the Blue line, the longest line in the existing Delhi Metro network, Sharat Sharma, director (operations), admitted that the problems could not be prevented. He said there can never be any metro system with zero snags.
 
 “Since there’s wear and tear, problems are bound to occur. However, on the Blue line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida/Vaishali), many external factors make the corridor more prone to snags,” Sharma added. This includes the signalling system, which is different from the other corridors.
 
 Sharma said the current signalling system was opted for when the original corridor — from Dwarka to Barakhamba — was coming up. “Later, it was extended and is much longer than envisaged,” he said.
 
 The presence of the ‘Y’ on the line — the bifurcation to Noida and Vaishali from Yamuna Bank — is another reason for so many snags. “The signalling system is old and can only be upgraded once an alternative in the form of another corridor catering to the same stations comes up. There is still plenty time to undertake a proper upgradation of the system,” said Sharma.
 
 While line 3 and the Airport Express line have signalling by Siemens, line 1 (Rithala to Dilshad Garden) and line 2 (HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) have an Alstom system. Line 5 (Mundka-Kirti Nagar) and line 6 (ITO-Escorts Mujesar) are serviced by Bombardier.
 
 In the upcoming line 7 (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) too, Bombardier is supplying the signalling, while in line 8 (Janakpuri west-Botanical Garden) it will be Nippon. The Airport line doesn’t see as many breakdowns as line 3 as the number of trains running on it are much less, said the DMRC official.
 
 The problem on the ITO-Escorts Mujesar corridor (Violet line) on Tuesday was due to repeated tripping of power supply. “It was a rare situation when three sub-stations tripped one after another due to power supply problems causing cancellation of four round trips, two delayed trips and one partial trip,” said Sharma.
 
 The problem, which started at 8.11am, went on till 9.42am. “There was no power supply at all three sub-stations from 8.25am to 8.28am. Of the total 103 trips in the morning peak hour, seven were affected,” Sharma said.
 
 
