New Delhi:   has set its eyes on top international-wine-player slot in the country as it adds Spanish varieties to its existing portfolio. Christian Barre, CEO, Pernod Ricard Winemakers, Spain, believes Indian wine market will continue to grow at 15% and double every five years. Present government's increased focus on tourism, young population with good disposable incomes and an evolved palate will make India a strategic   market for winemakers, says Barre. 

 In an interview with TOI, Barre elaborated while the global wine industry is growing at an average of 1-2% with some established European wine regions even registering negative sales, China and India are regions of future for global wine makers as the two countries have been registering double digit growth in terms of wine sales. "Tourism is being given a strong push by the present Indian government. As the sector becomes a strong contributor to nation's   and brings in many European travellers, there will be a need among many European brands to be here," he said. 
 
 Barre, who was in India to introduce Spanish wine Camp Viejo, the top selling Spanish brand of   region, says winemakers need to be patient and think of India as a strategic investment. This is only the second wine brand to be introduced in India by Pernod Ricard after Jacob's Creek. "We need to stop looking for immediate gains and wait for the market to emerge and mature. The actual numbers of cases sold in India may not be anywhere close to the US and European markets but its potential to emerge as one of biggest wine regions is what's attracting global winemakers to make a beeline here."
 
 For wine industry to grow in India though, Barre believes winemakers need to target the beer segment and project themselves as premium casual drinks. He states in Europe, wine and beer compete with each other as everyday drinks. Almost 60% of these beverages are sold in supermarkets or stores as compared to India where wine is still seen as a purely premium drink.
 
 
