AHMEDABAD: A flyover at   Circle on Ashram Road, a foot overbridge at Kalupur railway station from Relief Road, or the widening of the railway crossing at Thaltej, Naranpura, are all waiting to see the light of the day. According to an estimate, more than 60% of the work sanctioned in 2016-17 budget in AMC have not materialized or are still at the planning stage.

 Officials in the   said that the ruling BJP has plans to commence a series of development projects just before assembly elections. The administrative wing has been asked to ensure that the projects, which were announced in the earlier budget, and could not be commissioned, should be announced again in the budget for the year 2017-18.
 
 Officials said that several projects were announced in the 2016-17 budget without going into their feasibility. Apart from resurfacing of roads, no major projects could be taken up, said officials, because the party wanted to commence projects when the state assembly elections come close. 
 
 Standing committee Chairman   admitted that several projects have not been taken up, or have been dropped as they were found not to be feasible.
 
 “There are nearly 40% of the projects which may not see execution. For example, we planned a foot overbridge connecting Kalupur railway station, but later realized that it would lead to more congestion than easing the traffic,” said Patel.
 
 “Also, some projects like that of a mobile app ‘know you ward and councillor’ are in the pipeline and will be released any time next year,” Patel said adding some of the projects take time in planning and hence there is a delay.
 
 Officials said a major reason for not commencing projects was also shortage of funds. More than 50% of funds of the corporation come from the state government or the Union government as grants or subsidies. Currently, the ruling party is taking up only high-priority projects said AMC officials.
 
 Patel said that before making provision for the next financial year a list of projects which have not been taken up or are pending allocation of funds will be prepared. 
 
