MUMBAI: One of the refreshing themes of the 10th edition of the   has been the performance of the Indian fast bowlers.   leads the wicket-tally with 25 scalps.  's   is snapping at his heels on 21 in just 10 games. Basil Thampi has impressed for Gujarat Lions and   has done well for  .

 Of all these players, Unadkat has been the most impressive, because his success has coincided with his side's rise and has played a key role in his team qualifying for the play-offs as the No.2 side in the competition.
 
 Unadkat's ability to bowl slow off-cutters outside the off-stump has made him a difficult customer. He has also bowled conventional swing in the powerplays to pick wickets upfront. Against Sunrisers Hyderabad, he became the only bowler to bowl a hat-trick maiden in the 20th over of an innings.
 
 It has been quite a turnaround for the 25-year-old Porbandar bowler who, in the last two seasons, has played in just two IPL games, one each for Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders. He even battled a career threatening stress fracture of the back in 2014, which many observers felt, was a result of a semi-open bowling action and him falling away at the crease at the point of delivery.
 
 He came back well from that injury and in the 2015-16 Ranji season, he picked up 40 wickets. Despite success in the Ranji Trophy though, short-format success was hard to come by for the left-armer. A poor outing in the Syed Mushtaq Ali just before the auctions this year didn't do him much good either and that was why he fetched just Rs. 30 lakhs.
 
 It was a big drop from the Rs. 1.6 crore that Kolkata Knight Riders dished out in 2016 for him. Unadkat though was not too fussed about the cash, say people close to him. Opportunities and game time were what he was eyeing.
 
 A few poor outings for Bengal pacer Ashok Dinda opened that window for him. Of course, it helped that skipper Steve Smith trusted his abilities and threw the ball to him in crunch situations.
 
 Talk to Unadkat's coach Sitanshu Kotak at Saurashtra and he uses the words "hard work and improved fitness" at least 10 times during a nine-minute conversation, while talking about his ward. "His work ethics are brilliant and he has worked consistently over a long period of time. Success at anything is always accumulated, it doesn't come overnight," philosophises Kotak.
 
 Kotak, without going into specifics, mentions the changes he made to his bowling action after the stress fracture. "It was about body alignment and stuff. Let us not discuss this in public," he states with the authority of a school master.
 
 Building up core strength, Kotak says, is the reason behind Unadkat's new-found success. "He does a lot of power training in the gym," he specifies.
 
 However, talk to his Saurashtra teammates and they will tell you that the gym work does not come at the cost of bowling over after over in the nets and working on the various skills and his new action.
 
 Batsmen who have faced him in the Ranji Trophy say he is at least kms quicker than he was before the injury. 
 
 Mention the variations he has used and Kotak says, "Hoshiyar hain. He used to work on them endlessy in the Ranji Trophy. In this IPL, it seems he has mastered it."
 
 The former Saurashtra mainstay also reveals that Unadkat has serious batting abilities. "If he gets a chance, he is good enough to tonk sixes at any stage. He has worked very hard on his batting over the last two years. It is an aspect of his game not many know of as he has not got enough chances," adds Kotak.
 
 Pune would hope they won't need his batting skills. If the bowler in Unadkat continues doing what he has, his batting won't be needed.
 
