On a number of occasions the city’s renowned paediatrician Dr   must have told the relatives of some of his patients that ‘now only prayers can help’. For those who thought he is giving up, the fact is that he truly believed in this. That he is still around and practising proves that his faith in almighty has been unflinching. Having recovered from a condition from which it had been thought impossible to pull out, he has actually lived to tell the tale in his recently released book ‘Timiratun Udyakade’’.

 Bodhankar spoke to TOI about the book and what life has taught him. Excerpts from an interview...
 
 Q. What happened in your life that made you write this book?
 
 A. It is the result of the sudden change that took place in my life. In 2009, on September 13 I fell off a revolving chair when I got up hurriedly to take a phone call. I fractured my leg from which I got operated and recovered. But on October 5 while I was watching television I began to gasp and realized that something was seriously wrong with me. I called up my doctor friends who took me to the hospital where I was nearly declared dead due to multiple cardiac arrests. But my wife kept her faith and asked the doctors to keep trying and gradually I revived but went into a deep coma. Nobody believed that I would survive but doctors from the city and my friend Dr Deepak Tempe from Delhi continued to treat me. Though it was the treatment that brought me back to life, I was told that thousands of people prayed for me and I believe that those prayers were answered.
 
 Q. How long did it take for you to recover from your illness?
 
 A. Due to consistent efforts of people like Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram, Dr Vikas Bisne, Dr Uday Mahurkar I pulled through. But it was Dr. Anup Marar and physiotherapist Dr Sanil Koyili who put me through a stringent exercise and message routine which actually put me back on my feet and I could be present for a function at Orange City Hospital on November 13. On December 5 I could attend an IIP conference where the delegates welcomed me with a thundering applause as most had thought I was dead. I started coming to my hospital for a couple of hours from December 15 and am working full-time from January 6, 2014.
 
 Q. How did your patients react when you returned to work?
 
 A. They were very happy to see me. I get patients from MP, AP, Chhattisgarh and they belong to all religions and cast. So many of them offered prayers for me at their places of worship. I was told by the trustee of Tekdi temple that everyday someone or the other would perform abhishek for my health. My patients were with me throughout the ordeal and have given me life through their prayers.
 
 Q. How did this episode change you?
 
 A. I was always a religious person but now my faith in God has deepened. I believe that religion is about humanity and doctors are created to serve humanity. I have always been liberal with my fees but now I have become very generous. I grappled with a lot of frustration and fears that I would suffer memory loss. I am more empathetic and extremely humbled by the love and care that has been shown to me by my friends, associates and patients. I have become very philosophical and have also learnt that alternative medicine also works well for pain management and general fitness.
 
 Q. So the book is all about your experiences and observations?
 
 A. Actually I got inspired by Dr   who too survived a brain tumour and wrote a book about it. She encouraged me to write. I approached Supriya Iyer to write and it’s she who actually put my thoughts in book form. I would narrate my experiences and get emotional and even cry and she would hear me and compile them. I am happy that I have been able to share my thoughts and experiences with people so that they can also learn from them.
 
 Q. How does it feel to share your story?
 
 A. I am feeling much better now that I could give a message, tell people about general dos and don’ts for a healthy happy life and caution them about small things which can land us in big trouble. I hope to translate this book in Hindi and English also in the near future and hope to write another one on life and philosophy.
 
 
