AURANGABAD:  , known as the   of the state, have been particularly feeling the pinch of the ban on   along highways.

 Almost all five-star hotels in Aurangabad are among the 500 liquor serving places located within the 500-metre radius of highways in the district and are barred from selling liquor due to the recent Supreme Court ban. 
 
 Meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions, commonly called as MICE events, are also slated to get affected due to   at major hotels. Around 30,000 foreigners visit Aurangabad every year for tourism purposes. 
 
 A section of the National Highway 211 (Solapur to Dhule) passes through Aurangabad and Nagpur–Aurangabad–Mumbai express highway also passes through the city. All liquor serving places along these routes will have to stop operations following the Supremce Court order. 
 
 As per authorities, Jalna Road passing through the city has maximum liquor selling places (45), followed by Jalgaon Road (32), Beed bypass Road (28), Paithan Road (18), Waluj Road (12) and Daulatabad Road (8) and among other streets. 
 
 Rajeev, acting banquet manager at Ambassador Ajanta, one of the hotels of the Ambassador Group of Hotels, located along the Jalna Road, said foreign tourists as well as several other visitors were bound to face inconvenience as they cannot serve liquor anymore.
 
 “Beer is the most preferred form of liquor among foreign tourists. The demand for it most and requests for other types of liquor vary from season to season. We will have to say turn down customers now when they will ask for their favourite drink,” he said.
 
 When contacted by TOI, several foreigners refused to speak on the issue. Some of them said they were unaware about nitty-gritty of the court ruling but had only a vague idea about unavailability of liquor in hotels. “We have been told to arrange liquor, if needed, from outside. We are ready to cooperate with hotel staff,” a male tourist said without sharing details. 
 
 Jaswant Singh, president of Tourism Promoters Guild, said many tourists, including foreigners, have been on low spirit following restriction on liquor sale. 
 
 “We spoke with some leading hotels and they said it would not be illegal if tourists purchase liquor from outside and consume it within their hotel rooms. However, being new to the city, tourists could find it difficult to locate such liquor shops,” he said.
 
 State excise department officials, meanwhile, said that flying squads would be formed to keep check on any liquor sale taking place surreptitiously. 
 
 “We have ensured strict compliance with the apex court order. Several liquor shop owners and hotel managements did not renew their permits in the wake of the court order and are bound to face shutdown. There are others who have been asked to bring the shutter down,” officials said. 
 
 Officials said they are set to lose revenue to the tune of Rs 500 crore due to the closure of nearly 506 licenced liquor shops. 
 
