CHENNAI: Even as police from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu tried in vain to trace embattled Calcutta high court   by using his call records and tower location details, his counsel moved the apex court saying its May 9 ruling, which ordered his immediate arrest, was `illegal' and sought its recall.

  mentioned Justice Karnan's petition before a bench headed by   after it completed the day's hearing on triple talaq and said the   was not accepting the application as it had not been authorised by an AoR advocate. Advocate on record (AoR) is a group of lawyers authorised to file petitions in the SC. “He has been running from one AoR to another to get authorisation for filing the application but all of them refused being scared of the Supreme Court. Please accept the application and hear it urgently,“ Nedumpara said.
 
 Aware that Justice Karnan was not arrested and jailed as per the May 9 order, the CJI asked Nedumpara how the judge signed the petition for filing in SC when he was not available to police?
 
 Nedumpara said he had gone to Chennai. “He signed the petition and it has been authenticated by a notary public. But none of the AoR is willing to file it as they are scared of your court...“
 
 After ascertaining from Nedumpara that he had been duly authorised by Justice Karnan to file the recall plea, the court took the application and said an appropriate bench would consider it. TOI asked Nedumpara about Justice Karnan's whereabouts amid speculation that he might have left the country . “He is very much in Chennai. I met him on Wednesday and got the papers signed,“ Nedumpara said. Counsel helped TOI speak to Justice Karnan's son Sugan, who confirmed his father was in Chennai.
 
 In the recall application, Justice Karnan said his January 23 letter seeking probe into allegations of corruption against judges was not contempt of court. “The allegations contained in the said letter are against the judges named therein and not against any court, neither the Madras High Court nor the Supreme Court. If the said allegations are untrue, they would at best amount to defamation which will entail an actionable right, both civil and criminal, in the judge named in the letter,“ he said.
 
 “Under the laws of the land, the judges named in the letter have every right to proceed against petitioner (Justice Karnan) under civil and criminal law. However, none of them has chosen to do so for reasons better known to them. Instead, the CJI was pleased to take suo motu cognisance,“ he added.
 
 On Thursday morning, a West Bengal police team headed by DGP Surajit Kar Purkayastha and ADGP (armed reserve) Ranvir Kumar met TN police chief T K Rajendran to discuss the arrest order. On Wednesday . it met Chennai police commissioner Karan Singha.
 
 The team was seen collecting tower dumps (chunks of data from a mobile tower). Officers visited Kalahasti but returned empty-handed.
 
 Police also conducted inquiry with Justice Karnan's wife Saraswathi and son Sugan. Sources said he had stayed at a hotel in R K Nagar, where he is said to have met his lawyer.
 
