MUMBAI: Egyptian  's plight has moved Indians so much that they have raised Rs 35 lakh so far through various crowdfunding sources for her travel and treatment.The 36-year-old's story is a tearjerker: she weighs around 500kg, is five-foot wide, has chronic medical conditions, and, worst of all, was homebound for 25 years till last week when she was literally airlifted from her home in Alexandria to Mumbai.According to a medical estimate, there are at least 25 lakh morbidly obese Indians who struggle with their weight almost as much as Eman does (the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2013 said India is home to 30 million obese people who have a body mass index of over 24). These are Indians who struggle to get into lifts or climb floors, and people smirk when they take up that “extra space'' on train or metro seats. They cannot easily fit into aircraft seats, ditto with finding hospital beds or diagnostic scans. A reason that doctors at Mumbai's Saifee Hospital are waiting for Eman to reduce 100kg before planning an operation is to ensure she can be then moved on special stretchers to the operation theatre.

 Jiten stopped weighing himself after he touched 150kg and rarely steps out of his home as he gets breathless and hates people's queries. Another morbidly obese person, who underwent bariatic surgery five years back, remembers a painful outing when a relative's child guilelessly asked him why he “was so fat''.  , who is in her early 40s and weighs over 100kg, quit her job due to arthritic pain in her knees.
 
 “Many of my patients have been exposed to weight-based discrimination or fat shaming, whether intentional or unintentional, for years. This could happen from unexpected quarters such as family , schoolmates, teachers, gym instructors or strangers,'' says Dr  , a bariatric sur geon who operates on at least one morbidly obese patient every day .
 
 There is also the taboo topic of obesity and sexuality; fat cells interfere with hormones in such a way that testosterone levels in obese men drop (leading to baldness, low libido) while the level of male hormone androgen rises in obese women (leading to facial hair growth, pimples and PCOS, or polycystic ovary syndrome).
 
 “Studies have shown that for every three-point increase in a man's BMI, couples were 10% more likely to be infertile,'' said Dr Shashank Shah, a bariatric surgeon who moves between Pune and Mumbai and has started a two-city study on the effects of obesity.The first results from his study shows that of the 400 morbidly obese patients interviewed between January 2015 and October 2016, over 70% of the patients with a BMI of over 40 had some degree of sexual dysfunction.
 
 Obesity is a risk factor for most dis eases, be it hypertension, diabetes or arthritis. This is because extra fat is known to affect the functioning of the heart, liver, pancreas, kidneys, among others. “For those who say bariatric surgery is a cosmetic procedure, I'd like to point out that it's actually a lifesaving one,'' says Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who plans to operate on Eman after the results of her genetic tests become available shortly .
 
 Ask   Natrajan, a lecturer in a Mumbai college, who would find it difficult to get her 192-kilo frame up from a chair without help. “I was very independent till I was 110kg, but it was difficult thereafter to get into a vehicle or shop on my own. I realised my mother had to be my crutch though it should have been me helping her around in her old age,'' recalls the 47-year-old woman who has reduced to 78kg after undergoing a couple of weight-reduction bariatric surgeries in the last six years.
 
 At 6'11“, businessman Sripad Kulkarni towered over most people, but he could barely walk for five minutes without feeling breathless. “I weighed 175kg until four months back,'' says the 48-year-old who decided to go under the scalpel because he felt his weight triggered his bouts of anger. “I would snap at everyone and had high blood pressure. These were reasons enough for me to seek a permanent solution to my obesity ,'' he says. Kulkarni has so far shed 30kg, and for the last week he's managed to swim for 30 minutes a day and walk without any exertion.
 
 Eman's story resonates with all of them, and a hopeful Sheela says: “I am sure Eman too will walk one day .''
 
 
 
