HYDERABAD: It's not just the youth who are trying hard to stand on their feet, but also people who have retired and are now looking for a second innings at the work place. While financial independence is a prime motivator for retirees looking for employment, making productive use of their free time comes a close second.

 India boasts of more than 10 crore individuals aged over 60 years and most of them are still willing to work post-retirement. Evidence that there are not just opportunities for such people, but they are in fact being sought after comes from an increasing number of companies offering jobs to people with experience of 25 years or more over the past few years.
 
 “I used to work in a public aided company till a few years ago. When I retired in 2015, I decided to work again at a private company so I am not dependant on my son's income,“ said  , who is a little over 60.
 
 In the case of 64-year-old Surya Prakash V, it was suddenly being saddled with free time that drove him to look for employment again. “I get bored sitting at home all day,“ he said.
 
 “My son is settled in   and is a permanent resident there. I tried staying with him for a few years there, but was bored to death as I had nothing to do expect to play with my grandchildren. So I decided to come back to India and work here again. I have regained my independence and am also being able to support my daughter in fulfilling her wishes post marriage,“ said Prakash.
 
 To support the endeavours of the retired, many start-ups are now providing them with a platform to search and apply for jobs. “Popular job portals primarily cater to beginners and the mid-career workforce, leaving the bulk of seniors and retired professionals unattended to. Our main objective is to serve this neglected group who are looking to restart their career and are keen on leading an active life,“ said  , founder, Notretired.in, a portal which provides a platform for retired persons to look for jobs.
 
 Pratap said that they have more than 6,000 retired persons registered on their platform, of whom about 30% are from  . “We look to provide jobs to people with all kinds of skill sets, starting from being security guards to CEO's of companies,“ said  , co-founder, Notretire.in, adding, “the demand for jobs is set to increase further as our population is growing.“ Apart from Notretired.in, portals such as moneycrashers.com, newretirement.com, monster.com also provide a platform for senior citizens searching for jobs.
 
