Madhu Daithota
Everywhere he went, for the whole of last year, it was only one question that came his way. “When are you starting   again?” “I finally have an answer for it,’ says the show’s host, actor-director  . He is all set to shoot the promos for the   of the  , which will go on air in the end of March and shares that he feels gratified with the impact its made with its previous two editions. “When young boys and girls come and tell me that ‘Sir, one day I will also sit on that chair,’ you realize the kind of inspiration it has been to audiences. And there could be no bigger motivation than that because inspiration is the best take-away from anything that you hear, see or do,” states Aravind.
 When the show was conceived, Ramesh tells us that the first thing he shared with its makers was that it should reflect his own attitude towards life. “Everybody knows that I’m always smiling and look at the positives of life, rather than its negatives. Life is not easy, but it is good and one that ought to be celebrated. Which is why we always explore motivational stories of personalities on the show,” Ramesh explains. 
 Even though he is an industry veteran, the actor-director-host takes a lot of time to prepare himself for each show and is all praise for his research team. “It might be one hour of entertainment; but many weeks are spent in gathering intricate details of the life of our guests. At the end of both seasons, I realized how each of us has different journeys to the top, but ultimately, the emotions are the same. There have been many occasions when my eyes have welled up, but I’ve managed to contain myself and be a good host,” he smiles.
 Quick take: There have been many little-known facts that have been spoken about on the show. And Ramesh has been pleasantly surprised by many. “For example, even though we have worked together on so many films, I was surprised when I learnt that   (veteran actor/politico) used to run an idli shop in a bathrooom,” he says.
 
