MUMBAI: The   on Friday allowed the   to adopt due legal procedure to evict a vacant land   adjacent to the Mayor’s Bungalow at Shivaji Park for the proposed memorial for late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray.

 A bench of Justice Naresh Patil and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi directed an earlier status quo to be maintained while BMC’s inquiry officer hears and decides the plea of the   under a procedure prescribed under the BMC Act. The bench said if the order is against the Samaj, it shall not be executed for four weeks from communication of the order to enable it to appeal.
 
 The Samaj had moved the court last year, challenging the March 26, 2016 notice which directed it to “to quit, vacate and deliver” peaceful possession of the 574 sq m land within 30 days, failing which the BMC would re-enter the property and take possession of it. On April 15, 2016, the high court, in an interim order, directed that “no coercive action” shall be taken against the Samaj.
 
 The Samaj’s advocate Rajiv Narula argued that it is a charitable organization running a free nursery school and conducting medical camps, culture and art classes. “They have been there for over 60 years. Just because a political party leader wants to build a memorial for a leader, we are asked to go,” said Narula, adding that the Supreme Court has deprecated this practice. He added that alternative sites were not suitable to the Samaj’s members, who are senior citizens and children.
 
 Senior advocate Milind Sathe, representing the BMC, pointed out that the 25-year temporary lease had expired in 1975. He argued that BMC would not forcibly enter the premises, but it must be allowed to take action in accordance with the procedure under the BMC Act. 
 
 Allowing the BMC’s plea, the high court bench disposed of the petition and directed that both sides shall continue to explore an amicable settlement. 
 
 “Good acts should flourish. Good acts should be supported. There are senior citizens and children. Corporations must take due care,” said Justice Patil.
 
 
