NAGPUR: Though legends like RD Burman,   and Rajesh Khanna are no more with us, they continue to charm music lovers even today.

 ‘Yeh Shaam Mastani’, the annual musical programme organized by Bankers Sports Council to mark the golden jubilee of its foundation, had the experience of the sway these legends hold at  , on Wednesday.
 
 The programme began with the evergreen hit of Rajesh Khanna like ‘Gulaabi ankhen’ presented by Tribhuvan Meshram. Vijay Amin rendered his voice to some of the best of Kishore Kumar’s songs like ‘Agar tum na hote’, ‘Pyar deevana hota hai’, ‘Hame tumse pyar kitna’ and many others. Priti Gajbhiye gave able support to Vijay and Tribhuvan in duets like ‘Kora kagaj tha maan mera’, ‘Chura liya hai tumne’, ‘Bheegi bheegi raatome mein’ and many others. Total 23 songs were presented. 
 
 Highlight of the evening was Vinay Amin, a banker, who had come all the way from Mumbai to pay tributes to the trio. Amin, popularly known as golden voice of Kishore Kumar, has won several awards in reality shows. Amin told TOI, “As an artiste, I respect and love Kishore Kumar. In today’s world where music has lost its old charm, songs of legends like these keep our faith intact. This is the result why people like us get recognition.”
 
  (keyboard), Gaurav Tanksale (guitarist), Deepak Kamble (dholak and congo) and Vineet Kamble (tabla) accompanied the singers well.
 
 Briefing about the activities of Bankers Sports Council, organizing secretary TB Meshram said, “We wanted to celebrate the evening with the works of RD, Kishore and Rajesh Khanna. Therefore, we thought of holding this programme. We also conduct various cultural and sports activities frequently,” he added.
 
 Kishori Kulkarni, who was in the audience, enjoyed the evening. He said, “I learnt music and have special love for Kishore Kumar’s songs and the evening was something worth spending for.”
 
 Secretary of Vidarbha Cricket Association   was the chief guest while   Bhatia, managing director of Bhatia Farms, was the guest of honour. 
 
 (Reporting by Megha Tiwari)
 
 
