Just about a week after she did India proud by emerging as the second runner-up at the Miss United Continents 2016 pageant held at Ecuador, Nagpur girl   ventured into a completely unknown territory by participating in  . Lopamudra didn't disappoint her fans, as she survived on the tough, controversial show for 105 days and went on to become one of the finalists. In Vadodara to judge a talent hunt contest, Lopamudra spoke about her Vadodara connect, her fights with Swami Om and more. 
 
 
  
 
  
  This is my second visit to Vadodara as I had come here about six years ago. Back then, I had visited the famous museum here and also loved going to the Sayajibaug zoo. I have a soft corner for kids from smaller towns because I know the kind of hardships they have to face in the initial years. I was lucky that I got wonderful platforms like the Femina Miss India pageants quite early in my life.But the size of your hometown should never matter when it comes to your dreams and I was very happy to see that Vadodara has got some fabulous talent. I am fond of Gujarati food, and methi khakhras and the amazing pickles one gets here top my list.
  
  
 
  
  H
 
  
  It was a complete emotional roller coaster ride. I took up the show, since I hardly got any time to prepare after the Miss United Continents pageant. Before entering the show, I probably enjoyed a lesser fan following than the other celebrity contestants but later on, my fan following became huge. I feel reaching the top three was no mean achievement. Lasting for 105 days was very difficult because spending even one hour under such circumstances is pretty tough! Given a chance, I would love to do an international reality show next because I now feel more confident than ever before.
  
  
 
  
  It's really unfortunate that men like Swami Om exist and he has no right to call himself a `swami'. What others did on the show was beyond my control but whatever happened was very unfortunate.The world would be a much better place if men like him did not exist.
