BENGALURU: The story of   portends trouble, not just for the city, but also for its people. And it’s the   who are particularly worried. Resident welfare associations of Vijayanagar have been doing everything within their means to save the  , the only waterbody in the neighbourhood which, today, is almost non-existent. The lake, which is right behind the BMTC’s Traffic and   (TTMC), is covered in water hyacinth.

 Residents recall how in the 1970s, Kalasayana Lake was a thriving waterbody. “Now, this is the only remnant of a lake in this part of the city, and we must somehow save it. Over the years, construction debris has destroyed the lake, which has been exploited to the hilt. About half an acre of the 3.3-acre lake is already encroached upon by a temple, a fuel station and shops abutting its banks,” said B Veeresh, member of Vijayanagar Viveka Prathisthana Vedike (a forum of 16 resident welfare associations) and an RTI activist. 
 
 Further, owing to its poor maintenance, land sharks have been eyeing this waterbody, say residents. “This lake is full of water hyacinth and looks like a green field from far. Land sharks have set their eyes on this lake because they think it’ll soon die. It’s only a matter of time before we lose our lone waterbody,” said another resident, who grew up in Vijayanagar.
 
 Locals say they are scared to voice their concerns lest the land sharks retaliate. “We had conveyed our concerns to the AT Ramaswamy committee on lakes, which too recommended the waterbody’s rejuvenation. But neither did the BBMP nor the BDA bother to take work forward. We have now approached the Koliwad committee to review the lake’s status and try to get it rejuvenated. Water shortage will soon hit Bengaluru hard. As such, the city’s lakes have to be revived to recharge groundwater,” said Veeresh.
 
 The other lakes of west Bengaluru have been equally exploited. For instance, the Ambedkar playground and stadium (the only playground in this part of the city) and a BBMP office stand right where the Saneguruvanahalli Lake once used to be. A fuel station and choultry have further eaten into the area. In fact, the BDA built its apartments on Nagarbhavi Lake soon after it was declared dead. The Balayana Lake and Mallathahalli Lake are dead, and have also lost the streams flowing into their catchment areas. Not just this, around 1.18-acre of the GKW Layout sits on Marappana Lake.
 
 These are the findings from various RTI queries filed by Veeresh and other activists about lakes, parks and open spaces in the city, particularly Vijayanagar. For now, Deepanjali Nagar Lake is the only one still surviving in this area. However, activists fear this too will vanish soon.
 
