LUCKNOW: In a major departure from the politics of vendetta being seen in UP for over a decade, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday gave a go-ahead to the   government's dream project-Samajwadi   from Lucknow to Ballia. However, he ordered to remove the word 'Samajwadi' from the project. 

 The directives came during the presentation of infrastructure and industrial development department before the CM on Thursday evening. The CM also directed the officials to complete the leftover work of Lucknow-Agra Expressway by the end of May while emphasising on strengthening the road and expressway networks throughout the state. 
 
 After the presentations of various wings of the education department that lasted for over six hours on Monday, two more-infrastructure-industrial and micro, small and medium enterprises ( )-made their presentations on Thursday. Next, agriculture department will present its achievements and roadmap on Friday and the transport department on Saturday. Yogi government's next cabinet meeting is likely to take place on April 11.
 
 The Purvanchal Expressway would begin from Bakkas in Lucknow near Sharda Sahayak Canal and NH-56 and end at Bharauli in Ballia district. The total length of the project is 348.1 km. The proposed 6-lane project has been okayed by the Yogi government. It will cover Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau, Ghazipur and Ballia.
 
 The CM also advised the department to explore the possibility of setting up an international airport at Jewar, in Greater Noida besides Agra. He also directed the officials to convene a state-level Udyog Bandhu meeting as soon as possible.
 
 At the presentation of the MSME department, the CM also announced the launch of Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarojgar Yojana (CM Self-Employment Scheme). He advised the officials to ensure that at least 25,000 get self-employed this year while this number should go up to 1.19 lakh by the next year.
 
  During the presentation of Khadi department, the CM also ordered to make efforts to arrange for a corpus fund of Rs 200 crore for SME enterprises throughout the state. 
 
