PUNE: A road rage incident snuffed the life of 18-year-old Ramavatar Banwarilal Jatav, when two drunk youths, riding a motorcycle, bludgeoned him to death and gouged out his eyes because Jatav had brushed against their bike while crossing the road, causing minor damage to the vehicle.

 The two suspects were arrested by the   police on Saturday evening for murdering Jatav in an open space at Dhankawadi. After killing Jatav, the youths planned to run away but police officials managed to nab them within eight hours of the incident.
 
 Police said Jatav is from Madhya Pradesh. His body was found lying in an open plot located at Vanshiv Vasti in Dhankawadi around 8.30 am. DCP (Zone II) Pankaj Dahane, assistant commissioner Shivaji Pawar and inspector A T Waghmale rushed to the spot.
 
 Waghmale told TOI that the suspects had brutally bludgeoned Jatav. There were injuries on his face and his eyes were gouged out so it was very difficult to ascertain his identity. However, Jatav’s relatives, who were searching for him, approached the   police, thus helping in identification. 
 
 Later in the evening, police arrested two suspects – Sumit Sudhir Kale (21) of Raviwar Peth and Akshay alias Bhima Bappu Divate (23) of Shivadarshan area near the Pune railway station. The two had planned to flee, Waghmale said.
 
 Waghmale said the police procured mobile call data from the location where Jatav was killed and found the mobile numbers of Kale and Divate. Their numbers were traced to Pune station area. 
 
 Waghmale told TOI that Jatav had come down to Pune a couple of days ago and was supposed to stay with cousins. “He wanted to see Pune,” he said. His cousins stay at   chowk near Market Yard. “On Saturday morning, his brothers decided to cook something special and told Jatav to fetch some vegetables from a vendor nearby,” Waghmale said.
 
 Jatav, a skilled labour specialising in tile fitting, left their home and was crossing the road at Gangadham chowk to buy vegetables around 8 am. “While crossing the road, Jatav collided against the motorcycle of the suspects. The riders fell and their bike suffered some minor damage. The duo told him to pay Rs 2,000 on the spot. When Jatav told them he did not have money, they got angry and beat him up,” Waghmale said.
 
 Waghmale said the suspects are school dropouts.
 
