A small village called   in  's   district has be come a macabre hotspot. People come here to peer down at the Bhakra Main Line canal hoping to catch sight of dead bodies that get held up on the sluice gates. They are not ghouls ­ they are looking for kin or friends who have disappeared. The canal runs unhindered like an arrow for 159 km through Punjab's eastern districts and Khanauri barrage is the first point where the flowing water is slowed down. In the past few years, most of the bodies that turned up at Khanauri were of   who had committed suicide, mainly because of debt and economic crisis.

 In Punjab as a whole, estimates of farmers' suicides range from a few thousand to tens of thousands. A study by three universities estimated that between 2000 and 2011, nearly 7,000 farmers committed suicide, most of them because of debt.
 
 A new study for 2011-15 by the same three universities, is in the final stages of data processing. Balwinder Singh  , professor of economics at   , Patiala and one of those involved in the survey told TOI that 3,000 to 4,000 farmers committed suicide in this most recent period.
 
 Farmers' suicides are but one chilling symptom of the crisis gripping Punjab's agriculture, once thought of as a shining path for the rest of India.Its sweep is so wide and the effects so pervasive that every political formation in Punjab's ongoing election campaign is battling to assure farmers that it has the best solutions.
 
 So, what is the crisis? Production of foodgrains, mainly wheat and rice, has been stagnating for the past several years. It has grown by just 7% in the last decade and by just 1% in the last five. There is no more land left to be brought under cultivation with 82% of the state's geographical area under cultivation and 99% of it irrigated.Almost all the area is cropped twice.The only way production can be increased is by increasing yield, that is, quantity produced per sown plant. This too, sadly, is not happening. In fact, there is a slight dip in foodgrains produced per hec tare of sown land, from 4,364kg in 2011-12 to 4,304kg in 2015-16.
 
 On the other hand, cost of cultivation has zoomed while selling prices have not matched that rise, explains Tiwana. "Costs have gone up, reducing the farmers' income and the minimum support price has increased only by about 8% per year. For inputs, farmers have to take loans (or advances) from commission agents in mandis. If the crop gets damaged, the farmer is stuck with unrepayable loans worth lakhs. That's the crisis, and cause of suicides," Tiwana says. 
 
