Calling loan waivers temporary solutions, RSS chief   on Saturday said, "Our Niti Aayog and economic advisers to states will have to come out of the same old "isms" to integrate ground realities." 

 Backing measures like farm insurance and soil cards, Bhagwat indicated that the Modi government should be mindful of the stress being caused to the poor and farmers. 
 
 "Our farmer, who feeds not just his family but the entire nation, is in pain today. He is depressed after facing the onslaught of floods and droughts, export-import policy, meagre pricing, mounting loans and losing everything once the crop is ruined," he said.
 
 On cow vigilantism, Bhagwat reiterated his earlier comments that it is reprehensible that some people had been killed, allegedly by gau rakshaks. 
 
 He, however, observed that many people had been killed by cow smugglers. Stating that it was unfair to link cow protection with violence or communal feelings, Bhagwat said words in the Supreme Court ruling on vigilantism had been twisted to misinterpret it. 
 
 "The legal virtuous work of cow protection will continue and increase in coming days," he declared.
 
 Bhagwat stressed on the "need for a system to gather realistic information from all sources about execution and impact of the schemes percolating down to the lowest level through effective administration". 
 
 Some read the remark in the context of former finance minister Yashwant Sinha's criticism of the government's economic management, but Bhagwat could be signalling the need to verify official feedback.
 
 He described Modi's policies to control corruption as "bold and sincere".
 
 The RSS chief said, "Yet the requirement of an integrated and holistic policy which will take into consideration the diversity and disparate needs of industry, agriculture, environment together is very much felt." 
 
 He echoed the government's stand against considering Rohingya as refugees, saying, "We have been facing the problem of illegal Bangladeshi migrants and now Rohingyas have infiltrated our country. They are being driven out of Myanmar mainly due to their continuous violent, criminal and separatist activities and links with terrorist groups. Any decision should be taken keeping in mind that they will definitely be a threat to national security and integrity."
 
 Veteran BJP leader L K Advani and highway and   Nitin Gadkari were present on the occasion. 
 
 On   and Kashmir, Bhagwat's remarks were seen in the context of Article 370 and 35A (dealing with residency rights). 
 
 "Necessary constitutional amendments will have to be made and old provisions will have to be changed in that state. Only when the constitutional amendments are done can the residents of Jammu and Kashmir be completely assimilated with the rest of India," he said.
 
 He further said that there was an urgent need to take benefits of development to the entire state, including Jammu and Ladakh regions, without any discrimination and through transparent and clean governance.
 
 The RSS chief supported the economic reforms that have been initiated by the Modi government.
 
 Bhagwat said, "There is no dearth of courage for taking bold steps. But they are yet to meet all expectations." 
 
 He also endorsed Modi's attempts to get global recognition for India. 
 
 He said for the first time in 70 years, the world was taking notice of India and giving the country the importance it deserves. 
 
 He also praised the smooth handling of border issue in Doklam and the effective controlling of Pakistan-backed separatists in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
