Chandigarh: To dispel doubts on EVMs tampering, chief election commissioner (CEC) Nasim Zaidi said in Chandigarh on Saturday that the Election Commission (EC) would soon convene an all-party meet over the issue.

 He also said the commission intended to use voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) in all coming elections to bring in more transparency and boost the confidence of voters in the electoral process. “We will soon hold an all party meeting in which they will be told how our EVMs can’t be tampered with and secured as per our administrative and technical safeguard system,” the CEC told mediapersons here.
 
 After the assembly elections earlier this year in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur, many political parties raised their voice against the use of EVMs. 
 
 He was responding to questions about allegations levelled by various political parties against EVMs. Recently 16 opposition parties had urged the EC to revert to ballot system, claiming that the faith of the people in EVMs had been “eroded”. Zaidi also said that the ECI was planning to “hold a challenge” for which a timeframe was being worked out. The electoral body is planning to throw an open challenge, asking anyone to try hacking its EVMs to dispel doubts of any misuse, it is learnt.
 
 The CEC also said the ECI had placed an order for the supply of VVPAT machines for use in elections. “For VVPAT, we have got the funds. We have placed an order for the supply of 15 lakh VVPAT with two PSUs Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Electronic Corporation of India (ECI),” informed Zaidi.
 
 He said that it was expected that by September 2018, around 15 lakh VVPAT machines would be ready. Zaidi said that, “The commission’s objective is to use VVPATs in all coming elections. India will perhaps be the first country where there will be 100% use of VVPAT at all polling stations. It will boost voters’ confidence and will bring more transparency in the election process.” Zaidi said an awareness campaign would be launched in this regard. 
 
 
