PUNE: The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has decided to conduct   test on all 77 children at the   Children’s Home following reports of repeated sexual harassment.

 While police investigation into the case of 8 boys sexually abusing 4 younger boys in 2015 started recently, a CWC inquiry early this month found that four more boys were being sexually abused by three elder boys. A FIR was filed on May 5.
 
 “There have been cases of sexual harassment in the home and there were reports in the local media that some children might have got infected with HIV. Hence, we have decided to check if any child is infected with HIV. There are 77 children at the home and the HIV   will be carried out at the Sassoon General Hospital,” said Anita Wipat, chairperson, CWC.
 
 While the case was reported in 2015, the children were produced in front of Juvenile Justice Board this month. Asked what led to the delay, Wipat said, “Police officials investigating the case need to produce the children in front of the juvenile justice board. Superintendent of the house should also have followed it up with the police. There was lapse from both sides.”
 
 Wipat further said that a showcause notice has been issued to staff members working at Shivajinagar Children’s Home about the delay in the case of 2015 sexual abuse. “It was the duty of the staff members at the home to follow up on the case but they didn’t do it. We have issued a showcause notice regarding the same,” said Wipat.
 
 Rajendra Mokashi, senior police inspector at Shivajinagar Police Station, said, “The officer who was looking into the case in 2015 has been transferred. Our priority is to investigate the case first. Simultaneously, we will also investigate why there was a two year delay and who all are responsible.”
 
 Another police official said, “The problem is that either the children are not aware of what is going on or have got used to the abuse. There needs to be proper counselling of these children because what we are seeing is extremely alarming.”
 
