The trend of inviting celebrities to grace   is catching on in a big way in  . The recent 25th anniversary celebration of a city-based couple, that was held at a private farm house in Nipania, saw attendance of over 30 celebrities who flew down for the occasion. Shilpa 
Shetty,  , Jackie Shroff, Huma Qureshi,   and Raj Kundra were among the guest list. An increasing number of couples are paying a lot of money to get celebrities to perform at their sangeets and receptions. We spoke to a few wedding 
 planners for some inside scoop.
 
 
 
 
 
 Vinod Dubey, who operates a wedding organising firm, Pentagon Events, says, “These are usually big budget weddings and clients spend in crores. And at least `10 to `30 lakh is set aside to ensure there’s a celebrity on the guest list. It is completely commercial. The clients share their preference and we talk to managers, check availability and affordability. A list of the available celebrities is sent to us by the managers and we discuss it with the client. The celebrities are treated like guests and come and go according to a time slot. No over indulgence with guests is entertained.”
 
 Dhairya Jain of Phoenix Event Media Group, that plans elaborate weddings, shares, “An appearance for an hour earns them a handsome amount, so the celebrities are open to making appearances. But they are very particular about their time slots. If they have committed to 90 minutes, they finish their performance and set aside 15 minutes for interacting with guests or taking pictures with the family. On their part, clients keep celeb appearance under wraps and don’t announce it even to important guests.” 
 
 
 
 
 Having organised two weddings in the city with celebs, Varun Chinche of Ahmedabad-based Ace Creative Concepts says, “Singers are the most preferred because they can also perform. The choice can vary anywhere between Mika Singh and Abhijeet Bhattacharya, depending on what kind of performance the client wants. While artistes of their calibre charge from `10 to `25 lakh, smaller artistes charge around `5 lakh approximately.” Varun adds that some clients prefer international artistes, and don’t mind spending the amount they would otherwise spend on a big   star. “We recently had a group of European violinists play at a wedding. It all depends on the taste of the client,” he shares. 
 And it’s not just singers and actors who are in demand. Mohit Bhargava of Fusion Events says that the trend of getting the dances at the sangeet choreographed by celebrity choreographers is also picking up in Indore. “People prefer dancers like Dharmesh and big choreographers like Terence Lewis to choreograph the programme and give a special performance at the ceremony,” he says.
 
 
 
 
