PUNE: Army veterans will write to Prime Minister   and other political leaders, seeking legal action against Solapur MLC, Prashant Paricharak, for making controversial remarks about soldiers and their wives at a rally on Saturday. 

 Paricharak, who is supported by the  , had questioned the character of armymen’s wives by saying that jawans do not visit their homes for years, still their wives deliver kids.
 
 To condemn the comment, veterans along with people from all walks of life held a protest demonstration at the Maratha War Memorial in Pune Camp on Monday. Demanding ouster of such people from politics, they said, “Such disparaging statements not only hurt the feelings of the veterans, but also the families of the martyrs.” 
 
 Lt Gen DB Shekatkar (retd), who is heading the government-appointed committee to enhance capability of the Armed Forces, told TOI, “The comment is unacceptable and unfortunate for the Armed Forces, particularly in the current volatile situation where our jawans are facing tough times in Jammu & Kasmir region.”
 
 Shekatkar said they (veterans) will take up the issue with the Prime Minister and other political leaders to initiate legal action against Paricharak.
 
 Col Suhas Jatkar (retd), director of   department, said, “The comment has deeply hurt us. It shows the kind of respect such politicians have for the  . Major Kunal Gosavi, who attained martyrdom in Nargota terrorist attack last year, is from the Solapur district. This politician should see how Gosavi’s family must be suffering now. Instead of supporting the family, he is talking in such an irresponsible manner.”
 
 A colonel from the Infantry arm of the Indian Army said, “Politicians should speak responsibly, especially on matters concerning the Armed Forces. The Indian Army is working under a tremendously tough situation in forward areas and needs support from all sections of society, which also includes politicians.”
 
 After sharp criticism and backlash for his comment, Paricharak’s office issued a statement on Sunday stating that it was not his intention to disrespect soldiers. “I respect armymen and their families. I tender my sincere apology. It was a mistake to talk like that,” he said in the statement.
 
