AMRITSAR: The   has announced to hold the byelection to   constituency along with the Punjab assembly polls on February 4. The seat was vacated after Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Singh had resigned from Parliament as the MP of Amritsar in protest against the   judgement on the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal.

 Immediately after the announcement, hectic activities began in political circles immediately after announcement of Amritsar Lok Sabha by-election date by the Election Commission on Friday.   president Captain Amarinder Singh, who is spearheading the party’s assembly election campaign in the state, had defeated Arun Jaitley in the Lok Sabha elections held in 2014, but vacated the seat in protest against the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue. While talking to TOI, Amarinder -- who had won the elections with a margin of over 1.20 lakh votes -- said the party would be fielding a winning candidate who would not only be the best, but also serve the constituency. “Congress party has much acceptability in Punjab, and we are sure our candidate will win a historic win as had happened last time,” he said.
 
  (AAP) Punjab convener Gurpreet S Waraich claimed: “We are not only forming the government in Punjab, but are also sending one more MP to the Lok Sabha in March.” He said following the announcement of date for the Lok Sabha by-election, AAP would hold a meeting to mull over the name of the candidate. “In all probability, we will try to field a local candidate,” said Waraich. He also claimed that the people of Punjab wanted AAP to represent them not only in the state assembly, but also in the Centre.
 
 Former BJP state vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chinna -- who is considered close to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley -- had already begun preparation for the Lok Sabha elections much before the announcement of the bypoll date by the Election Commission. Sources informed TOI that probably former BJP MP Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu could be the Congress choice to contest from Amritsar. “According to agreement with Congress leadership, Sidhu will contest assembly elections from Amritsar (East), which is represented by his wife, while she would be fielded MP candidate by Congress,” said a source in the party.
 
