The two-day annual cultural festival of Pannalal Girdharlal Dayanand Anglo-Vedic College ( ), ' ', concluded with a performance of Punjabi rapper  . The star performance of the fest “was attended by over 5,000 students, an unexpected number of students at our fest. In the history of our college we have never seen this kind of response for any event,” said Adarsh Bhushan, vice-president of the cultural society of the college. 

  
  FANFARE: Students tried climbing up on stage to click selfies with Raftaar (BCCL)
 
 
 The entry for Raftaar’s performance, which was scheduled for 6:30 pm, began around 4 pm and in no time the college ground was packed with students. Though there was ample space between the main stage area and the audience section, once the rapper was on stage, many students climbed up on stage to get a selfie with Raftaar. “It was very difficult to manage crowd, students tried breaking barricades, but the team of bouncers, volunteers and Delhi Police managed it well,” said Adarsh. 
 
  
  Students from   girls’ colleges said they would want to ‘ban’ Punjabi rappers at their fests
 
 
 The crowd cheered for the rapper as he entered singing ‘Shera Di Kaum Punjabi’. “PGDAV, are you ready to party with me? Are you ready, then jump, jump,” said the singer and the crowd duly followed his instructions. This was followed by the trail of his popular tracks like 'Dhaakad', 'Swag Mera Desi' and 'Tamanche Pe Disco'. While dancing to 'Swag Mera Desi', Raftaar wanted to get down from the stage and join the crowd, but was discouraged from doing so by his team and college authorities. “Main apne college mein bohot oott (mischievous) bachcha tha, but tab bhi aap logon se kahunga ki agar main neeche aaun toh aap log ek dusre ko dhakka toh nahi maroge na? Main sabse milna chahta hoon,” he said, but the authorities did not let him step down from the stage. “Sapne dekhna bohot zaruri hai, jise bhi follow karte ho, karo but karte raho. It is very important to believe in whatever you want to pursue,” he added.
 
 The singer and rapper took over a console to be the DJ for some time.
 
 
 
 
