Taking in a roomie can be quite tricky. Not only are you opening up your life and its secrets to someone you barely know, you also stand to be judged for the company you keep. To avoid some serious headaches down the line and pre-empt awkward, potentially dangerous situations, all you have to do is ask the right questions the first time you meet a potential roommate. Actually, it’s sensible to ask these questions even if you’ve known the person socially for a while. Don’t worry, we aren’t suggesting any query that may appear as intrusive or offensive – just a couple of smart questions that will make your home-life happy and pleasant.

 
 
 Issues of cleanliness are usually the major bone of contention among roomies. Better get this out of the way before you move in. Of course, no one will admit to being a slob – it’s smarter to ask about cleaning habits in general. Ask the person which chores h/she likes and which ones h/she loathes. You should also tell your potential roomie about your habits. “It’s important to be honest,” says psychiatrist Dr Samir Parikh. “The easiest and fastest way to get to know them is by opening up about your own requirements, and limitations. This will encourage the other person to open up too,” he says. Talk about division of work; it’s of utmost importance when you are sharing your kitchen, bathroom and living space with someone.
 
 
 
 Ask the person about about his/her schedule. If both of you work, ask about office timings to ascertain if it will affect your daily life. This becomes critical, especially if you are a light sleeper or have an erratic schedule at work. “Also if you guys are students, get to know each other’s study schedules,” advises psychologist Smriti Kaul.
 
 
 
 Get to know her cultural background as this might tell you something about her food preferences, likes and dislikes, the festivals or holidays that are important to her. “You might not think that the culture a person grew up in will matter, but it is something to factor in, especially if you are looking for a long-term arrangement,” says Rachna K Singh, clinical psychologist and life coach.
 
 
 
 What the person does over the weekends will tell you if you have shared interests. She may be taking belly dancing classes, learning to play guitar, or are a part of a drama club... something that perhaps you’ve always wanted to do. This means you guys will get along well. This is also the best way to know whether your future roomie is a party animal or a homebody.
 
 
 
 This is an important question to ask if you do not smoke or if your lease doesn’t allow smoking indoors. You can add a clause to your agreement, which should clearly state that smoking isn’t allowed in your home. You also need to understand her attitude towards liquor: is she a social drinker, a teetotaller or borderline alcoholic? You don’t want to end up cleaning up after a drunk person or tiptoeing around a judgmental one.
 
 
 
 Demarcate your spaces and tell your roomie about the kind of interference you do not appreciate. Likewise, you need to find out about her list of non-negotiables and see if you can respect that. Maybe she’s allergic to cats; maybe you don’t like sharing chocolates; maybe she can’t stand the smell of eggs – polar opposite eating habits can spell disaster in the long run.
 
 
 
 Ask her about the kind of guests she’s likely to have and how many times they may come over. Specifically ask about out-of-town visitors as they may end up staying at your place for an extended period of time. Make sure you both agree on this bit as you wouldn’t want your private space to be encroached upon by unfamiliar people.
 
 
 
 Money is not just the most sensitive topic but also the most crucial one. Talk about how you will manage your groceries, monthly bills – electricity, internet etc., and how you will sort out the rent payment. Set out clear terms before the person moves in so as to avoid awkward conversations at the beginning of every month.
 
 
