Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: By tweeting, messaging and calling over phones, people have started to mount pressure on their MLAs to support chief minister O Panneerselvam camp in the ongoing battle for power in the ruling  . 
 
 It became more strident immediately after the Supreme Court upheld the trial court’s judgment convicting AIADMK general secretary V K  , Elavarasi and VN Sudhakaran in the disproportionate assets case on Tuesday. 
 
 Posters of Sasikala put up by AIADMK in Thondamuthur, the constituency represented by rural and municipal administration minister S P Velumani, were torn. A large number of people have started tweeting, messaging and calling not only Velumani but also other MLAs urging them to support  . 
 
 Mani, a fruit-seller from a village near Onampalayam under the Thondamuthur constituency, said, “99% of the people in the area are of the opinion that Velumani should join OPS. We are trying our best to reach him but in vain.” 
 
 “We are willing to accept former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa Jayaraman but not Sasikala. If Velumani does not join OPS, we will never vote for him again,” said an angry S Latha, a daily wage labourer. Nine former ward councillors are waiting for their minister to announce his support for OPS. 
 
 Residents of several colonies such as VMC Colony, PM Samy Colony and other areas have decided to send a representation to their ward councillors so that their decision is conveyed to the minister.
 
 In Kinathukidavu constituency, residents set up posters asking their MLA A Shanmugham to support OPS. Sujatha Balasubramaniam of Malumichampatti of the constituency said, “If our MLA does not join OPS, we will not allow him in our area and will never vote for him. We have sent many messages to him as well but haven’t received any replies so far. We hear he is still in Koovathur.”
 
 Anwar from Coimbatore (South) constituency said people in the area want our MLA Amman Arjunan to join OPS camp. “OPS has been handpicked and chosen by Amma thrice to be the chief minister. If she herself has chosen him, other MLAs should support him and ensure the party stays together. It takes a lot of effort to build a party. These MLAs should keep their personal gains aside and work for the party,” he said.
 
 Shanthi, a state bank employee and a resident of Vadavalli, said she wants her MLA P R G Arun Kumar to join OPS. “While both parties lack credibility, we do not want Sasikala or her family to stake any claim on the government. If they want to come to power, they should contest elections. Even if Edappadi Palaniswami becomes the chief minister, it will be a shadow or a proxy government which we condemn,” she said. 
 
 Dorairaj of Podanur said Sasikala’s image is tainted and now that she is convicted, they cannot accept her, her relatives and the person she appoints as chief minister. “We keep discussing this on social media groups. We hope the ministers and MLAs make a wise decision,” he said.
 
 But many residents did not take any effort to speak to their MLAs. “We know that once elected, these people become corrupt and pompous. If public opinion is anything to go by, they would have made their decision by now. But one thing is for sure. The proxy government will not be allowed to run for long,” said Raja, a resident of K K Pudur. There were also a few who were of the opinion that OPS was being opportunistic and was trying to break the party. 
 
 
