NAGPUR: Commotion prevailed at the  , in Chikhli area, for some time on Wednesday after some 50 visitors staged demonstrations over glitches in the new online system. The newly introduced   4.0 system at the   (RTO) has several glitches and is causing inconvenience to people every day.

 Most people visiting the office, for getting fitness certificates, vehicle passing certificates, permit renewals among other things, complain that the system develops glitches and hampers work at the   office.
 
 “For over a fortnight now, citizens coming for vehicle registrations, permits, choice numbers, vehicle information and RC books, have been bogged down by slow work at the RTO due to bugs in the Vahan   upgradation,” said a driving school owner. After the upgrade was completed, there is even more confusion among staffers, who cannot answer all queries regarding its operation.
 
 The driving school owner said the new system takes close to an hour for any vehicle-related work due to several glitches. “Moreover, receipts generated from the earlier system are not compatible with Vahan 4.0, which is causing great hardships,” he said.
 
 Sources said that for shifting to this new system at East RTO, the office was kept shut for over five days, but the system is still developing problems. The overhaul of the system was followed by a training programme for staffers. However, they are still dealing with public wrath for not being able to process requests quickly.
 
 A senior clerk said on condition of anonymity, “Though we have been trained to operate the upgraded software, we are faced with new technical errors every day. They should not have implemented the new system until the bugs were fixed.”
 
 Moreover, the slow pace of things has irked many transporters, who have demanded that the updated software be withdrawn.
 
 Though the office in-charge, deputy RTO Ravindra Bhuyar, was not available for comment, a senior official claimed their team is working to fix the glitches and errors in the software. “Visitors should cooperate and have some patience till the upgraded Vahan 4.0 software gets streamlined in the daily RTO-related works,” he urged.
 
 However, the assurances haven’t pacified visitors, who have not been able to get their work done, which has had an effect on their documentation.
 
 One such angry visitor, Manoj Jadhav (name changed), who had come to get duplicates of his lost RC book and documents for his truck, was told that it would take some days. “Now, the problem is that I need to renew insurance of the transport vehicle and for that I need the RC book. If this process gets delayed, then the insurance will lapse,” he said.
 
