PUDUCHERRY:  ,   Kiran Bedi’s official residence functioning at one of the most-valuable   in the Union territory of Puducherry will be open to visitors from May 1 between 12 noon and 1.30pm on all days except on Sundays. 

 Local residents and tourists visiting the former French enclave can visit the heritage building after registering themselves at the Raj Nivas website http://rajnivas.py.gov.in/ seeking the attention of comptroller Asha Gupta. Raj Nivas will then send an e-invitation to the visitors of their scheduled date and time of visit. 
 
 “It is yet another initiative to make Raj Nivas unique and people-oriented and to reach out to transform Raj Nivas into People’s Nivas and become an integral part of other initiatives such as open house, film series and lecture series et al. It is to provide opportunity to the residents of Puducherry, tourists from other parts of the country as well as international tourists to walk through Raj Nivas, one of the most-valuable heritage buildings of the Union territory of Puducherry.,” Bedi said. 
 
 Raj Nivas will evolve two batches of 30 visitors each (Indian and foreigners for language reasons) every day and tourist guides with proficiency in Tamil, French and English will take them on a tour, explaining the rich history of the building. The visitors must produce the photo identity cards that they have declared as proofs while registering their names. They will have to undergo the security screening protocol. 
 
 Lt governor’s secretariat will seek the assistance of the French Institute of Pondicherry in gathering vital information on historical, architectural, cultural and streetscape significances. It also proposes to hold slide shows and screen films highlighting the historical significance of the building. 
 
 The visitors will be permitted to take group photos with the lt governor that will be uploaded on Raj Nivas website that can be downloaded. Lt governor’s secretariat will preserve photos in its archives section. The visitors can leave their comments in the visitors’ book and selected comments will be uploaded on the website. 
 
 More information can be had from Asha Gupta or public relation officer J Kumaran over phone 0413 2334050 – 51. It might be recalled that Raj Bhavan, Tamil Nadu Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao’s office cum residence in Chennai was thrown open for public viewing by Rao.
 
