MIDNAPORE/HOWRAH/TARAKESWAR/BOLPUR: Marooned for last few weeks, help arrived for listless Ghatal residents on the aerial route on Friday. An Indian Air Force (IAF) Mi-17 V5 helicopter hovered over Pratappur village to save the trapped villagers but rescue operations could not be started due to the trees around buildings. By the end of the day, 130 villagers were rescued by NDRF boats. 

 “IAF will again launch rescue operations on Saturday as the marooned could not be lifted out safely from their houses owing to trees around it. The IAF men tried dropping a ladder from the chopper but conditions were such that it was not possible to bring the residents out. The NDRF has been kept posted in the area,” chief minister   said. 
 
 At  , state home secretary Atri Bhattacharya said, “The residents had refused to evacuate earlier. The water breached the ground floor level on Friday. The residents sent signals requesting evacuation but   waters were flowing too fast for NDRF boats to be deployed. At the chief minister’s instructions, we formally requisitioned the IAF for deployment of helicopters.” The chopper then toof off from Barrackpore.
 
 The flood situation in  , Howrah and Hooghly remained grim on Friday with state ministers and other leaders facing protests at relief camps. Some 45,000 are housed in relief camps at present. Flood victims in Birbhum, however, sighed relief after water level in Mayurakshi and Ajoy.
 
 People housed in a relief camp at Nimtala in West Midnapore’s Daspur protested before state irrigation minister Rajib Banerjee, alleging inadequate supply of relief materials. “We have despatched adequate relief. But your grievances will certainly be looked into,” banerjee told them. 
 
 Tarakeswar Municipality vice-chairman Uttam Kundu was beaten up by a group of 15-20 masked men at Mohonbati village. Kundu’s car was ahead of three trucks carrying food relief to Kesabchowk, 2km from the spot. He was injured and has been admitted to Tarakeswar hospital. State minister and   leader Tapan Dasgupta alleged, “Two CPM leaders led the attack on Kundu.” 
 
 At   too, villagers in relief camps complained that the administration was slow in rescuing them. Sushil Ray of Aurchi Shibpur alleged, “Had rescue operations been launched more promptly, we could have saved some belongings we were forced to leave behind. At the relief camps, food supply is inadequate.”
 
