JAIPUR: The   has asked the   and Medical Research Centre to pay a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to a patient for   besides a prosecution cost of Rs 21,000 within one month. 

 The commission order followed a petition by Chandrawati who had under gone a hysterectomy operation at the   on Nov 11 2008 by Dr Preeti Sharma. The patient was discharged with a catheter placed in the bladder. The petitioner said when the catheter was removed; urine started dribbling soiling her clothes and bed. When she contacted the hospital they did not pay any attention and advised her to use diapers.
 
 On the insistence of the petitioner, the hospital agreed to refer the patient to an urologist after four months and agreed to treat her free of cost. She was referred to Senior Urologist BN Bhargava in the hospital. He operated upon the complainant and implanted a DJ stent in the urinary junction. One of the ureter was re- implanted and some pelvic exercise was prescribed. However there was no relief to the complainant.
 
 After the operation at Durlabhji hospital, the complainant consulted at least five doctors and it was found that not only her urinary bladder but her left ureter was also damaged.
 
 Ultimately cystectomy was done at Narayana Hrudayalaya Hospital on August 4 2011 and filled the damaged urinary balder with Methylene blue dye. After this procedure the complaint could come out her three year ordeal, at least partially.
 
 The commission said due to subsequent repairs and preimplantation of ureter, the bladder had lost its original potential to hold the urine for which she was prescribed medicine and injunction through vagina in the bladder which is still continuing. 
 
 The commission said “injuries to urinary bladder and ureter may not have been caused due to negligence but subsequent attitude of avoidance and concealment of injury to ureter would constitute negligence. The embarrassment and humiliation of the petitioner is beyond imagination.”
 
 The commission observed, “For four months after hysterectomy, the hospital refused to accept or to explain the fact of urine seepage. Just giving adult diapers was an act of avoidance.” Why she was not referred to a urologist in the first instance? The injury to ureter was totally denied and concealed as also the fistula created between bladder and vagina.
 
 
