LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Development Authority has issued fresh orders to stop all sorts of   across the city, even if they are flouting the norms slightly, till the time a team from the authority visits the site and checks every detail meticulously and gives its  . Only those builders who are 100% sure every inch of their building conforms with the approved   limit can continue construction. 

 The orders came a day after   vice chairman Satyendra Singh took stern view of the officials’ laxity in checking rampant illegal construction across the city and ordered them to remove all illegal constructions within next 48 hours. LDA official in charge of RBO (Regulation of Building operations) wing said, “We have already identified these illegal structures and since the past two days were holidays, the inspection will begin from Thursday. Our team will visit construction sites randomly based on the list prepared by executive engineers and complaints received from an area.”
 
 LDA team will check every minute details of construction ranging from floor-area ratio, number of floors, compliance with map, area left in front and back as per building norms, parking provision on site, etc . “Once we are assured every single brick is laid as per building bylaws, are we going to give it a go ahead, or else stop the construction permanently. Only those builders sure of their compliance with map and other building norms can go ahead with construction on the condition that they can prove it to the team”, said the official. 
 
 As per LDA estimates, there are over 250-300 construction sites within the city which have flouted the rules while constructing and are now under scanner. But the biggest challenge is to regulate mushrooming of illegal construction on highways and private colonies where people haven’t got their maps approved by the authority. “A proposal was sent about four months ago to the government to frame a policy to crackdown on these private colonies so that the erring builders and residents can be penalised but we have yet to receive response,” said LDA. 
 
