Ask people who are in their 60s or 70s about how they spent pooja during childhood and they would tell you tales of how children in every Hindu household would keep their textbooks for pooja and spend all day playing. All kinds of reading was a strict no-no and accidentally reading something was a matter of immense guilt and fear for the children. Fast forward a generation and you would hear stories of how most, though not all, of the children still kept away their textbooks, but would watch TV and movies throughout. Some kids didn’t bother too much about it and would read storybooks along-wise. There was no internet anyway in the 80s and 90s.

 Gen Z, however, has a different story to tell altogether. Giving up reading altogether is rare and exceptional now, and there is no break to the internet, video games,   or Whatsapp, all of which involves reading, and also texting. But there is absolutely no guilt involved anymore. “‘Are there actually people who stop using mobile phones and the internet? I think it happens only in houses where there are devout grandparents. Also, why do you parents read newspapers?’ is what my 16-year-old son asks,” says Vipin Nair, a parent. It’s a time when the children, especially teenagers, spend the maximum amount of time on the internet, apparently. 
 
 However, it’s not just about devoutness, and the situation has changed for children now, says Milli Pavithran, another parent from Kochi. “The children are under great pressure unlike in the past. Pooja holidays are the only time they can take a break from studies and so we can’t ask them not to play games or chat with their friends,” she says.
 
 It’s also a question of what else children can do now, if they don’t have to study, says Praseeda K, a homemaker. “I had neighbours and siblings to play with but my son doesn’t have them. He has to do something and so I let him do whatever he wants on those days.” 
 
 So what do the rules say about reading during pooja? “It’s a time for re-assertion,” says  , historian. “Saraswathy, Durga and Shakthi are all the same philosophically. Shakthi or inner energy is inside all of us, but we all need a re-assertion from time to time. This is a time to acknowledge and recognise it.”
 
 There are two kinds of knowledge, Jnanam, which is spiritual knowledge, and Vijnanam, which is scientific knowledge, says Sashibhooshan. And during the three days of pooja, one is supposed to turn to Jnanam, not Vijnanam. “Jnanam or spiritual knowledge develops inner strength and that is the psychological concept behind  . One is supposed to remember the Devi on those days and there was even a practice of reading Saraswathy’s bhajans. But in general, people are supposed to get energised when they read again after three days. ”
 What does he think of the practice of children reading everything else other than textbooks? “It is sad that no one tells the children the actual aim of Saraswathy Pooja,” he says, with a laugh though.
 
 And what do the parents feel about it? “We ourselves gave the children the freedom to bend the rules so can't really complain,” says Milli with a laugh. 
 1, It is one of the few festivals which is celebrated across India
 2, In North India, Ayudha Pooja is the norm, and weapons and other instruments of their livelihood are kept for pooja while in Kerala, books are kept. 
 3, In the olden times, the entire nine days used to be celebrated elaborately, while it has been reduced to three days now – Durgashtami, Mahanavami and  
 4, In Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram is the hub of   celebrations, with the annual Navarathri music festival being held at the Navarathrimandapam. The music for the Navarathri concerts has been composed by Swati Tirunal, with nine keerthanas in nine ragas, to be sung each day.
