HONG KONG: “Silly questions. Silly answers. Easy game,”   remarked with his customary wide grin when  's PR head pointed out how the 50-year-old manager liked to be put on the spot. No penalty this, but he was soon patiently tending to curious queries, defining the Reds' immediate goals... Well, not before cracking his little joke. 

 “The only thing I want to clarify is that no questions about offence, none about defence, no questions about players, transfers are a strict no-no and simply nothing about football,” he made a mock request, and laughter ensued.
 
 “It's just like England, but warmer,” he said, laughing, obviously referring to the incessant rain in Hong Kong. “I would like to see the place because it is my first visit. Unfortunately, as you know, we have work to do.”
 
 “Not my fault,” the 6”4’ man shot back, when the hosting Standard Chartered regional CEO wondered why Liverpool haven't been this side of Asia since 2007. But with English opposition waiting for him and his wards in the Premier League Asia Trophy, he knew the pre-season lesson wouldn't be wasted.
 
 It was still a 'good morning' even though it was past noon, as Klopp & Co were struggling with the biorhythms of time travel. “We are going to put in a little night session, then two sessions tomorrow. Really, we have to do a lot of work in pre-season but here the climatic conditions are very different and we will see what we can do. If you come to England, you would probably be in a sweater while the locals would be in a tee, that's what I would do... It's very humid here but it is a very important tournament, a precursor to the coming season, all the teams are from  , so no excuses.”
 
 For him, Liverpool are a work in progress, a project moving in the right direction and he can see his role in this. 
 
 “I don't think people knew I had a plan but I came with one, of course. My first priority was to learn more about the club. It's a massive club so there's no reason to change much. First year, we reached two finals so I would call that successful but if you lose those finals, of course, that doesn't feel so great but it is. We did really well last year to qualify for Europe. Of course, we have to win the playoffs but we are confident we can do this. To use the power of the club, to use the spirit is a very beautiful thing. I am 20 months into this job now, the club is 125 years old, but we want to have a big influence on the future.
 
 “We are changing a few things, using academy players a bit more but it all needs time,” he pleaded for patience in a constantly changing world. “Probably we are the only club with an Indian player in the squad. Yan Dhanda is very good and hopefully he can come through. That is one thing but football changes, it's a big business. However, in the heart and the soul of football, it's just a game.” Klopp's idealism shone through. “Liverpool is a real, proper football club. Yes, there's business but I love the passion of the club. Using this, and making the fans happy. That's not the plan but it should be at the end. And we are going to try with all our might.”
 
 Stability and familiarity are important to the former Dortmund boss. Has Scouseland changed him? “I turned 50 a few weeks ago and a lot of things or people may have tried to change me but I am what I am. I am quite happy with who I am. Now, Liverpool is a nice city. When you think of Liverpool, you think of a football club and a very, very famous band (read The Beatles) but there is a lot of things about Liverpool, and for me it is not really easy to go out as I am instantly recognisable.”
 
 A page out of the Fab Four's 'Day In The Life' maybe. “It is not possible as a member of this club to feel the city. Before coming to Hong Kong, we did go out to a bar or two but we had security around us, it was no fun but that's life. I can't do it... It was a last try, I promise... People here are very clear, honest, very funny. We don't have to change, neither Liverpool nor I.”
 
 A moment thoughtful, then suddenly the humour flows again. A local reporter signed off a series of questions, including one about the Chinese Super League, with a 'thank you', evoking a typical reaction from the German. Pursing his lips with a `whoosh' he started with `welcome', then asking, “What was the first question again?” 
 
 “When will we win the title?”came the reminder. “C,mon!...” he paused to general laughter. “Hopefully soon... are you happy with this? What can I say? Obviously we all know about the quality of the other Premier League teams. It's not what about I say , it's about what we do and if we really improve what was there already last year ­ and a lot of it was good ­ we have a chance. We are really ambitious but we are not naïve.”
 
 He has expressed himself on the pitch, and even broken his glasses in a shared moment of exhilaration. But he hasn't 'broken the internet' yet. “I would have never thought that I would feel so young at 50 when I was 20. Now that I'm 50 I know I'm not old but I'm definitely old for social media. I have nil interest in telling people what I'm doing every second. I cannot imagine sitting on the toilet and sending a picture. I will not understand this until the end of my hopefully, still long, life. I have nothing to say that's why I'm not on social media.”
 
 Indeed he had nothing to say on the overinflated prices in the Premier League market. “As long as the money is there and the clubs in the Premier League keep giving to each other, this will continue; maybe next year it will increase, and when the money is not there, the prices will go down again but the game will still continue and that's the most important thing to me.” 
 
 While the club may have fallen a bit behind in the transfer trail, Klopp allayed the doubts saying he was not worried. The immediate task was to bond and players ranging from the injury-returned skipper   to great hope Philippe Coutinho were aching to feel the edge of competition.
 
 “Training here will help, I hope so,” the gaffer said. “To do your best when you feel fantastic, everybody can do that, I guess. But remember we have to work hard day after day so you can understand the intensity we face. These circumstances will be difficult for all the teams but I cannot tell you how it will turn out before the game. I can only tell you after the game.”
 
 Frank de Boer's Crystal Palace are waiting on Saturday. It all starts from zero. And it will start from zero again come the real Premiership in August. And Klopp knows that.
 
 
 
 
