Colva:   is to the state’s tourism in South Goa what the beach belt of Calangute constituency is in North Goa. This politically-active constituency is set to witness a multi-cornered contest for the February 4 assembly elections.

 In 2012, Goa Vikas Party’s (GVP) MLA Caetano ‘Caitu’ R Silva won the seat by defeating strong Congress contender Valanka Alemao, daughter of former public works department (PWD) minister Churchill Alemao, by a margin of 2,001 votes. 
 
 The election results for the Benaulim constituency were a revolt effected by its people against the Congress for its bad governance and corruption. The Congress had further angered voters by giving as many as three tickets to the Alemao family, all of whom lost the elections. 
 
 This time, as many as seven candidates have filed their nominations to contest the Benaulim assembly seatSilva as independent, veteran politician Churchill on the NCP ticket, Edwin Baretto on the Congress ticket, Benaulim panch Royla Fernandes on the AAP ticket, zilla panchayat member Maria Rebello as the GVP candidate, John Fernandes from the Goa Su-Raj Party (GSRP), and social activist Judith Almeida as an independent.
 
 Churchill won from this constituency in 1989 on the Congress ticket, in 1994 on the UGDP ticket, and again in 1999 on the Congress ticket. Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco ended Churchill’s hold over Benaulim in 2002. In 2012, he tried to make a comeback by way of his daughter, but his dreams bit the dust.
 
 Churchill is trying his luck yet again; this time, on the NCP ticket. His baggage is even heavier with allegations of corruption in the Louis Berger case against him, for which he was incarcerated for some months in the very jail he had laid the foundation stone for as PWD minister before the 2012 general elections. Churchill, however, has die-hard supporters among a certain section in Benaulim and Colva. 
 
 Another factor that will probably work against Churchill is Rebello stepping into the fray. The GVP candidate is a former aid of Churchill’s and as such, is sure to dig into her mentor’s vote bank. She has maintained contact with the people with her involvement in sociocultural programmes. “Rebello’s popularity graph was high some months ago, which is when she should have begun her campaign. She lost precious time waiting for the Congress to declare its candidate,” said a political observer.
 
 Congress candidate Barretto’s political challenges lie in the voters’ disappointment with the grand old party for failing to lead from the front in taking on the BJP. While the Congress continues with its hangover that Salcete is its bastion, which is no longer true, Barretto stands a good chance at regaining its foothold in the constituency. After all, he has been the block president for more than two decades. The late announcement of his candidature means he, too, has limited time to campaign, which may affect his prospects. 
 
 The AAP initiated its campaign long ago, and has since covered a lot of ground. It completed two rounds of door-to-door campaigning, and held several corner meetings even before the candidate was named. 
 
 As a volunteer, former Benaulim sarpanch Royla, completed two rounds of door-to-door campaigning, while, as the party candidate, she has covered some villages already. To further boost the party’s campaign, Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal held a huge public meeting in Benaulim, recently.
 
 GSRP’s John has contested twice earlier, once on the Save Goa Front ticket against Mickky, and then as an independent in 2012. He has not been very active since.
 
 Almeida is a social activist who raises her voice against environmental destruction, violation of CRZ laws, etc. She calls it her mission to take the voice of the people to the assembly. Her support base comprises mainly disgruntled AAP members and those who have been fighting for the cause of the environment. Her supporters say she is a universally-known personality, brave, and without any blemish.
 
 There seems to be a strong resolve to vote against Churchill, but there is no unity among his detractors. Last time, too, they came together to defeat his daughter. Will they succeed or will Kejriwal’s new brand of politics attract more admirers?
 
 
