NAGPUR: Launching a scathing attack against the state government, the Nagpur bench of   accused it of “trying to save the accused” and “making a farce of an enquiry” regarding the Rs150 crore Nagpur District Central Cooperative Bank (NDCCB) scam.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and  , on Thursday, sternly directed the government pleader   to finalize name of the retired judge by Friday, to conduct enquiry into scam, touted as one of the biggest cooperative scandals of the country. She was warned that strictures would be passed in case of failure to comply with its directives.
 
 The court was upset over the government’s move to include a fourth name for selection among the retired judges to be entrusted with the task. During the last hearing, Dangre informed that the government had taken out nine names of which three having clean images and good track record were shortlisted and one of them would be selected. They included — former principal judge at Nagpur Subhash Mohod, Shreyas Zinjarde and Babrekar.
 
 On Thursday, the government suddenly came out with a new name and requested the court to finalize him. The court censured the government over inclusion of name having suspicious past. “You first insisted on former enquiry officer Surendra Kharbade’s post. Then you finalized three ex-judges having good track record. Suddenly, you come up with a new name, recommended from the special quarters. Fortunately, we know some of them, as we’re working in the judiciary,” the judges tersely observed.
 
 They questioned the government on why it wanted to make a farcical inquiry when it has already made a decision to grant a clean chit. “On what basis, his name was decided? It’s akin to accused deciding who will be the presiding judge of his case. Your insistence on a fourth name, instead of earlier three shows that you’re not interested in conduction inquiry on basis of integrity. You took their consent and now what they will feel? Suddenly, what had happened in intervening period of April 27 till today,” the judges asked.
 
 Quoting apprehensions raised by petitioner’s counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, they said those were correct as it seems criminal prosecution is farce despite the talks about Swatch Prashashan (clean administration). “Out of over 200-300 retired judicial officers in state, you can’t find any other name. How this fourth name cropped up? Something is hanky-panky in the entire process. The government’s intentions are very clear in this case.” 
 
 The court’s oral strictures came while hearing a plea by Omprakash Kamdi praying for immediate appointment of inquiry officer to probe the scam. He had demanded that the probe be completed within a month contending that   already dismissed MLA Sunil Kedar’s plea, praying for inclusion of NABARD and cooperatives registrar in re-inquiry ordered against him.
 
