BARWANI/KHARGONE/DHAR:   (NBA) activists on Sunday continued their symbolic   pressing their demand of proper rehabilitation of people affected by the Sardar Sarovar Project ( ).

 A few activists gathered at Karanja of Barwani district headquarters and posed themselves as dead people by covering themselves with shrouds for 25 minutes. Activists Bhagwati Bai and Devram said, “If government itself wants us to drown in the dam water then we are also ready for it.”
 
 Another group of NBA activists staged   at Nawdatodi under Kasrawad tehsil in Khargone district. “We stand in Narmada river for an hour demanding fresh survey,” activist Nagesh Kewat told TOI. 
 
 Jal Satyagraha was also staged by a group of women and students in Chikhlda village of Dhar district. Meanwhile, NBA leader Medha Patkar continued her fast along with few more activists for the fourth day at Chikhalda.
 
 Leader of opposition in MP assembly on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to interfere into the matter and not to open the gates of Sardar Sarovar Dam till proper rehabilitation of the oustees. 
 
 According to a press communiqué of National Alliance of People’s Movement (NAPM) and Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA), eminent American linguist, social critic, and political activist Noam Chomsky has extended his support to the SSP affected people.
 
 Chomsky said in the petition, “Meeting the rightful demands of the people is essential to ensure their faith in non-violent, democratic and constitutional governance and struggle for their rights. I, on behalf of the people of Narmada valley, now appeal to you for immediate attention and intervention to save the people threatened by submergence.”
 
 The petition has been started by IIM Kolkata former professor and environmentalist Jayanta Bandopadhyay, So far, it has gathered signatures from 29 countries.
 
 23614 families of 178 villages are affected by SSP in Barwani, Khargone, Dhar and   districts of MP. Of them, 5551 families were supposed to be settled in Gujrat and 18,063 in MP. 9242 families have been settled and remaining is being rehabilitated in compliance with Supreme Court order. 
 
 
