Nagpur: Naadbrahma, a cultural organization promoting classical art among youngsters, celebrated its 29th foundation day on Tuesday evening at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar. The event was held to pay tributes to the organization’s founder, the late tabla exponent DM Bodhankar. Bharatanatyam performance by 16-year-old Madhura Hamdapure and santoor recital by Valmik Dhande, both from Nagpur, were the highlights of the programme.

 The event was presided over by dance guru and principal of Bhavan’s Kalasrujan Academy Shrimati Madkholkar. 
 
 In her address, Madkholkar said she was happy that classical dance was given equal importance on the stage as classical music. She urged the other cultural organizations to also come forward and offer a helping hand to upcoming artistes as there is no dearth of talent.
 
 Hamdapure, who gave her debut performance or ‘arangetram’ in January this year, is a disciple of Madkholkar. She began her performance by offering pushpanjali i.e. offering of flowers to the Gods. She then showcased khanda alarippu, an invocatory piece in a meter of five, and danced to varnam, a form of song in Carnatic music. 
 
 She directed her feet to an abhang of Tukaram Maharaj, ‘Sundar te dhyan’. She also danced to a rhythmic piece in Carnatic music, or tillana. 
 
 Dhande played a composition by his guru Pandit Shivkumar Sharma in raag Rasikapriya. Beginning with aalap jod jhaala, or the opening section of typical north Indian style of performance, he played a bandish in teen taal on santoor. 
 
 He also took requests from the audience and showed his skills with Pahadi dhun. He was accompanied by Ram Khadse on tabla.
 
 Shweta Shelgaonkar compèred the programme. Naadbrahma was founded in 1988 with an aim to promote classical music in the city by not only encouraging youngsters but also inviting national and international artistes to the city to perform.
 
 Inaugurated by vocalist Pandit Jasraj, all its events are held for free. The organization conducts events in February and July every year, and also gives a platform to talented artistes.
 
 
