HYDERABAD: With the cab drivers' strike entering its sixth day on Thursday, thousands of commuters in the city were once again left in the lurch. While cabbies had earlier said the strike would go on only till January 4, many drivers stayed off city roads on Thursday as well.

 “I was hoping for the strike to be called off on Wednesday as was announced by protesters. When I opened Uber's mobile app today however the situation was no different. There were only two cabs in the area and the prices were hiked to such a point that nobody could take these cabs unless in an emergency,“ said Bala Goud, a software professional and a resident of Madhapur.
 
 Kamala Reddy, an advertising professional, who has been carpooling with her colleagues since the strike started is also hoping for a quick resolution of the crisis. “Cabaggregators have made commuters dependent on them by offering low fares. But it seems they do not value the relationship they have built with customers, otherwise why would they not try and establish a dialogue with disgruntled driver-partners to resolve the crisis?“ a disgruntled Reddy asked.
 
 Those part of the indefinite hunger strike, under the aegis of the Telangana Cab Drivers' and Owners' Association (TCDOA), have now moved to a makeshift tent near   in Manikonda to carry out their protest, after police detained hundreds of them at Dharna Chowk in Indira Park on Wednesday. The cabbies were detained for protesting with out obtaining proper permissions for the indefinite strike.
 
 Many commuters are calling for an intervention from the state government to bring cabs back on the road. “The strike has clearly been extended because the management and protesting drivers have not reached an agreement. It is the people in the city, who have been availing cheap and hassle-free rides offered by cabs, who are suf fering now. The state government must understand that this has grown to become a major issue and must intervene at the earliest,“ said   , a resident of Somajiguda.
 
 On Thursday morning, members of Telangana State Cabs' Association submitted written representations to officials including Transport Minister Patnam Mahender Reddy, Minister of IT and MAUD K T Rama Rao and political figures in the opposition such as Revanth Reddy of the TDP, Kishan Reddy of BJP and   of the AIMIM.
 
 An abolition of the cab sharing and `target' system, introduction of fixed fare prices over surge pricing and more protection to drivers on duty were some of the demands listed in the representation.
 
