Thane: The revival of the dilapidated  , which dates back to the 15th century, is now one step closer to reality as the Thane district administration has sanctioned the first instalment of Rs 1 crore for its   and  . Over the past few years, the fort, which is one of the few historic and heritage structures in the district, had been left ignored and was in ruins. 

 While the greenery around it has been replaced by plastic and other waste, the open spaces have been occupied by hutments. 
 
 In an attempt to revive the historic memories attached to the fort and transform it into a tourist spot, a team of historians in the city and   MLA  , who sought permission for the restoration of the fort from the Archaeological Survey of India four years ago, pleaded with the government to sanction the required funds for the same.
 
 “There are many heritage sites in Thane, which reflect the various eras the district has seen right from the Portuguese rule, through the Maratha rule, followed by the British right up to the present. We have been trying to safeguard these relics for years so that we can share our historic past with the next generation. In addition to restoring the fort, we are also planning to set up a museum (Shivshrushti) in the open space near it to educate tourists of its history,” said MLA Sarnaik.
 
 While the Archaeological Survey of India sent in their approval for the restoration work of the fort a few years ago, the land where the fort lies was handed over to the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation Ltd from the revenue department earlier this year.
 
 Thane collector Mahendra Kalyankar sanctioned the fund of Rs 1 crore for the project earlier this week. The entire project is estimated to cost a total of Rs 1.80 crore. The process of inviting tenders is yet to start. 
 
 “The restoration of the fort will be done according to the guidelines of the Archaeological Survey of India that have been kept in place to maintain the historical essence of the structure. While the collector has sanctioned the first instalment for theproject, the remaining will be given by the  , under whose jurisdiction the fort area falls,” said an official from the district administration. He added that the remaining funds for the setting up of the museum and other tourism infrastructure will be given by the collector at a later date and the tenders for the beautification project will be invited soon.
 
 “We have been requesting for the beautification and restoration project for years and are glad that it is finally materialising. The Ghodbunder Fort site will soon be a must visit monument and a popular tourist attraction,” said Sarnaik.
 
 The restoration of the fort will be done according to the guidelines of the Archaeological Survey of India that have been kept in place to maintain the historical essence of the structure. While the collector has sanctioned the first instalment for theproject, the remaining will be given by the Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation, under whose jurisdiction the fort area falls. the remaining funds for the setting up of the museum and other tourism infrastructure will be given by the collector at a later date and the tenders for the project will be invited soon.
 
