NEW DELHI: Expressing their exasperation at the delay in receiving their salaries despite having gone on high-profile strikes a number of times, the last in January by employees of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, scores of   workers from the capital’s municipal bodies marched half-naked to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Thursday. The sanitation workers, who have been on a symbolic protest for 50 days now, demanded that the state government provide adequate funding to the cash-strapped civic bodies to enable them to pay salaries every month.

 “Delhi government conveniently ignores our demands and so we had to resort to a   to draw its attention,” claimed  , president of the MCD Swachhta Karamchari Union. The protesters gathered at   in the morning and then marched towards the chief minister’s office at the Delhi   nearby. They stripped their upper bodies of clothes near the Secretariat and scaled the police barricades that had been put up along the route. 
 
 When the slogan-shouting protestors were prevented from reaching the chief minister’s office by policemen, they sat in protest at the spot. “This dharna continued for over one hour,” said a protester. Then some cops, armed with orders from the Secretariat, arrived to escort a delegation of the protesters to meet deputy chief minister  .
 
 The protesters were directed to wear clothes before being taken to Sisodia’s chambers. However, when the sanitation workers found the deputy CM missing from his office, they started raising slogans. “Sisodia left the office reportedly for some urgent engagement,” said Gehlot.
 
 RB Utwal, another union leader, declared that the protests would continue till a permanent solution was found for the financial problems of the civic bodies. “If Delhi government pays its dues, the corporations will be able to pay its employees,” he argued. The government itself alleges that the civic bodies are unable to improve revenue generation due to lack of political vision and inefficient bureaucrats. 
 
 The sanitation workers blame Kejriwal’s government for creating the financial crisis by not releasing funds due to the civic bodies under the provisions of the third and fourth Delhi Finance Commissions. With the budgetary deficits in the East and North corporations running into hundreds of crores of rupees, it is difficult for them to pay the salaries of employees on time, while also depriving them of other financial benefits. The sanitation workers have been particularly affected by this and have struck work a number of times, leaving the city’s roads and localities in a stinking mess. 
 
 
