Most people don’t take proper care of their eyes until it’s too late. Dr  , medical superintendent of  , Vizag, talks about the various eye ailments observed in this region, eye problems in children, tips to maintain healthy eyes, eye camps and so on.

 
 Among the eye ailments refractive errors (myopia or inability to see objects at a distance and astigmatism, which refers to imperfect curvature of the cornea) are seen in about 15-20% patients - who are mostly school going children. In the elderly population, especially for those above 40s, it’s hypermetropia or difficulty in reading or seeing nearby objects. Cataract is also seen in men and women in their 50s and 60s. Apart from this, there’s age related muscular degeneration of the eyes and glaucoma as well as diabetic retinopathy among diabetic patients. Malnutrition and Vitamin A deficiency-related eye problems are found in children.
 
 
 It depends on the age of the person and presence of ailments like diabetes. School children need to be screened regularly at least once a year till the age of 18 years to detect refractive errors. Once the individual reaches 40 years of age, check-up should be done every two years. But if the person is diabetic, then every year, eye test should be undertaken. If one is a diabetic patient for about 10 years, then eye testing is advisable every six months and every three months if the patient is diabetic since 15 years.
 
 
 Laser technique is useful mainly for myopia and diabetic retinopathy. But laser surgeries may not be suitable for all. It depends on the thickness of the cornea. If the cornea thickness is above 500-550 microns, it’s suitable. For cataract, laser surgery is not really required.
 
 
 Squints are rectifiable while   (inability to distinguish certain colours) is a genetic disorder and has no cure.
 
 
 At eye camps too, treatment is done on a par with routine institutional surgeries. In fact, in camps, patients are kept for three days while tribal patients are kept for five days but in hospitals, patients are usually kept for two days post operation. Where chances of infection is concerned, it can happen anywhere, not necessarily at the camps if proper precautions aren’t taken. The equipment and machinery related to the surgery has to be double auto-claved at 130 degree Celsius for 40 minutes to destroy all germs. Most of the times, infections occur because of improper sterilisation. The eye drops or fluids come as bulk supply and even if there’s a micro hole during the manufacturing process, the fluid gets infected and when it’s used in surgery, infection and blindness may follow. At times, the fluid kept inside the plastic bottle may interact with the plastic when it gets heated for sterilisation. Chemicals harmful for the eyes may then be released.
 
 
 In case of cataract, the pupils become white and calls for immediate attention. Both diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma usually don’t show obvious early symptoms but is usually detected in advanced stages. Chances of developing diabetic retinopathy is mostly five years after one had developed diabetes. Glaucoma is usually detected when vision falls and already 75% irreversible damage has occurred.
 
 
 Green leafy vegetables, carrots, eggs, fish, fresh fruits, milk, and all food items with vitamin A is recommended besides natural food rather than artificial ones with preservatives. It’s also essential to maintain a healthy lifestyle, not to strain the eyes too much especially while studying and working on computers. Diabetic patients should keep blood sugar strictly under control to prevent damage to the eyes.
 
 Doc-talk will appear every alternative week. In this column, well-known doctors from the city would answer to readers’ questions. So readers can send their queries on various health-related topics to healthmeter.toi@gmail.com. The same will be forwarded to specialists concerned
 
 (Compiled by Sulogna Mehta)
 
