MUMBAI: Did India coach  's complaint to the Committee of Administrators (CoA) prove to be another nail in the coffin for the Board of Control for Cricket in India's ( ) General manager, Cricket Operations,  , who quit on Thursday?

 Sridhar had to quit the BCCI on account of conflict of interest issues (he was operating a few clubs in Hyderabad and reportedly being paid by the  ), but it seems that there were other issues as well.
 
 According to the minutes of the CoA meeting in New Delhi on September 8, Shastri pointed out the need to consult him and skipper Virat Kohli while drawing up India's schedule of matches so that adequate rest period can be provided to the team between games. The former player and commentator then went on to stress upon a problem area that his team was facing.
 
 “Shastri also informed the CoA about the difficulties being faced by the team and the support staff on account of the point of contact not responding with alacrity to their requirements, on account of which a large number of issues raised by the team and support staff remained pending. Shastri requested for a mechanism to be put in place for smooth coordination between the team management and operations,” it's mentioned.
 
 Shastri's finger, in this case, seems to be pointed towards Sridhar, who was the link between the Indian team and the Board. While Shastri denied having specifically complained about Sridhar, saying “Didn't even mention his name,” in a message to TOI, a top BCCI official confirmed the development.
 
 “Yes, Sridhar was the go-to man in the team with the Board. It seemed that the team was unhappy with him,” the official said. “The CoA took note of all the issues discussed and the chairman assured Shastri that the same would be looked into by the CEO ( ) and a nodal person would be designated with whom the team and the support staff could've a single point of contact for all the problems being encountered by them as well for issues needing a quick resolution,” conclude the minutes. Sridhar couldn't be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 
 
 
 The possibility of Indian players taking part in overseas T20 leagues, which has been steadfastly denied by the BCCI, still exists. “After discussion, the CoA decided that the minutes of all the relevant meetings of the general body, working committee or any other committee where this issue has been discussed should be placed before it, so that it can examine the same before deciding on the appropriate course of action,” the minutes stated.
 
 
 
 
 The CoA has scheduled two meetings with the IPL franchises on Oct 23 and Oct 26. “It'll be like a workshop, in which we'll all exchange views on a few issues, including retention, player salary cap, matching cards, open auction. At the moment, the BCCI officials are meeting the franchises, seeking their views on these things,” said a source.
 
