For long, the small screen in our homes has led the way in entertaining us. As compared to any other form of entertainment, television has shown the widest and farthest penetration in India reaching out to the remotest audience in our country.But the emerging world of mobile entertainment, more particularly OTT (over the top) content, digital video playing platforms and video on demand sources are now challenging this monopoly television has enjoyed for years. While 2016 was a breakthrough year with a number of digital platforms launching in India, 2017 is all set to take things forward in a big way . According to Internet and Mobile Association in India (IMAI), the number of internet users stand to cross 500 million by 2018, with rural consumers at almost 210 million. And as the numbers speak, it is clear that the demand for digital con tent will see a steep rise in the coming months.Couple this with cheaper 4G services, big sponsors eyeing original content on OTTs due to an increased watch-time, rise in digital payment gate ways and availability of more contemporary and relatable original content on these platforms and you have all the ingredients for a long innings. “Online viewership is on the rise in a big way. And the momentum on this will continue,“ says Gaurav Gandhi, chief operating officer of one such digital platform adding, “We believe that for certain genres, the absolute quantum of viewing on TV and digital will soon be comparable. The future is going to be very interesting, to say the least.“

 EXPLORING A NEW FRONTIER
 With digital platforms gaining momentum, and original content like web series and short films finding large number of takers, actors and producers are making merry as they now have a new avenue to explore. “It is like a whole new avenue for actors,“ says actor Sudeep Sahir, adding, “There is a diverse variety of content being produced particularly for these platforms which is very different from what we do for GECs.It is very young, creative and liberating since it is devoid of restrictive TV pattern of show making." Producer   adds, “Now with the launch of such mediums, the demarcation of the audience has become very clear. Those watching shows on television are not necessarily watching them online. And the biggest challenge now is to identify your audience and create content for them."
 
 IS TV FACING A DIGITAL THREAT?
 A rapidly changing digital India, where not just urban youth but even rural consumers are getting online to watch shows of their choice on their smart phones, digital plat forms are being seen as a threat to TVs monopoly . “While it is too early to say that it will challenge the existence of TV , but digital consumption of television shows has begun to make a difference,“ says producer Guroudev Bhalla adding, “The problem is, there is no particular way of establishing who is watching what, how much time they spend watching any particular show or how consistently will they come back to it.So there is still a long way to go to realize if television faces a threat from digital platforms." 
 Saurabh Tiwari seconds his opinion saying, “While the division of audience has already happened, what we have to see is till what degree this will reach. I don't think television will cease to exist. These two mediums are sure to co-exist as the audience for both platforms are different. BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council India) will need to put together a separate system of establishing success rate of digital viewing. Once there is such a system in place, we would know what is working and what is not.“ So, it might be early days for digital platforms, but they sure are gaining ground. But as far as the big player goes, the industry feels that television faces no real threat as of now and that these two different mediums can have healthy co-existence.
 
 
