Panaji:   wrested the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Goa from Congress, for the first time, reinforcing the strength of Manohar Parrikar-led coalition.

 BJP candidate Vinay Tendulkar won the election held on Friday by a margin of six votes against Congress candidate and sitting Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik. Incidentally, the state presidents of both the main national parties were pitted against each other for the election to the Upper House of  .
 
 This is the first time that a non-Congress candidate has won the Rajya Sabha election in Goa.
 
 Tendulkar secured 22 votes, whereas Naik polled 16 votes. A day after four-five Congress MLAs reportedly indulged in cross-voting in the presidential election, indicating a rift in the party, Congress camp was pleased to see that all the 16 MLAs voted in unison for Naik. Congress had brought an observer from Delhi to avoid cross-voting for the Rajya Sabha polls and he was present during the voting at the polling station.
 
 A few days ago, Congress was expecting cross-voting for its candidate from BJP’s alliance partners for the poll. 
 
 This was because its candidate is known to be having cordial relations with GFP leaders. But after some MLAs voted for NDA nominee Ram Nath Kovind in the presidential election on Thursday, Congress camp was quite anxious.
 
 Of the 22 votes secured by the BJP candidate, 12 votes came from BJP, three each from its alliance partners—Goa Forward Party and Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party—three independent candidates and one from the lone NCP MLA.
 
 NCP’s Churchill Alemao voted in favour of BJP candidate. “I have voted for whom I feel to vote in the Rajya Sabha election,” Alemao told TOI.
 
 The election held between 9am and 4pm saw 100% voting. In the 40-member House, the current strength of the Goa legislative assembly is 38. Naik’s second term ends on July 28. He was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2011.
 
 Chief minister Manohar Parrikar said he was satisfied with the results. “We have got whatever votes coalition has—22. For the first time, BJP president now will become a Rajya Sabha member,” he said.
 
 “Right now we have four MPs from Goa, including me, and it will help in the development of the state,” Parrikar said. He also said there is no need to change the state president as he (Tendulkar) can (continue to) hold the post.
 
 Tendulkar said the victory not only belongs to BJP but also to Goa Forward, MGP, NCP and independent MLAs. He said the party has completed the winning cycle after emerging victorious in the panchayat election, municipalities, zilla panchayat, assembly and both the Lok Sabha seats.
 
 “I will do whatever is possible for me to do through Rajya Sabha for the development of the state,” he said. He also said that this is the victory of the common man.
 
 Leader of opposition Chandrakant Kavalekar said: “Our candidate got all 16 Congress MLAs’ votes”. He also said BJP is in ruling and all its coalition partners have supported them.
 
 
