The rain might have tried to play spoilsport, but couldn’t deter   students from having fun at the Amusement Day 3.0 of Jesus and Mary College. After the success of Amusement Day 2.0 last year, Mercatus, the marketing society of the college, organised Amusement Day 3.0 recently to collect funds for their department fest. Despite the rain, the event garnered huge footfall with students from different colleges coming to relive their childhood days by playing games like  , tug of war, musical chair, aim the article and dare to play, among others.

  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 
 Though each stall at the event had many participants, it were the volunteers handling food hunt who had the most number of participants. Aadhya Gupta, event head, food hunt, said, "Food hunt was the most popular game at the event. We got the maximum registrations for it. The registration was closed at 83 because it would have been very difficult for us to handle so many participants. The game comprised four rounds viz quizadilla, scavenger hunt, dough not dare and relay race, which was to be played by a team of five."
 
  Rajat Singh, a student of ARSD College, said, "Though our team couldn't make it to the final round of food hunt, we had fun participating in the game. We stayed back to cheer for our friends who reached the final round."
 
 
  
  Students at   enjoyed games like food hunt, tug of war, musical chair on the amusement day (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 Along with a number of fun games, the event hosted many stalls that were not only selling things like earrings and food, but other stalls as well to groom the participants, like the ones where you can paint your nails, colour your hair, etc. Nishant Sharma, a student of Motilal Nehru College, who got some streaks of maroon on his hair, said, "My friend studies here and I got to know about the event through her. Earlier, in the morning, we were thinking of cancelling the plan because of rain, but came anyway. We had a lot of fun here."
 
  
  There were nail art and hair braiding sessions too
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  
 
 
 
