NEW DELHI: The experiment of playing   matches on   got a mixed response from the players. There were a plethora of problems which cropped up during the season and it looks like the   could be in two minds while continueing with it for the next season. The latest point - that came up for discussion during a workshop of director of cricket operations and head coaches of state academies at the   in Bangalore on Thursday - was the slender gap between matches.

 Sources told that the Ranji teams’ representatives, who attended the meeting, said a three-day gap between matches was too less during the initial part of the tournament and eventually it became physically tiring for the players to cope with the schedule. They couldn’t even go home to unwind.
 
 Sources then indicated that the board would reconsider the neutral venue concept in the next technical committee meeting, which would be attended by coaches and captains of the Ranji Trophy teams. However, keeping a gap more than three days would mean having a longer Ranji Trophy season in an already tight schedule. The board also need to keep in mind that some of the states like Gujarat, Jharkhand, Haryana and even a new entrant like Chhattisgarh could reap the benefit of doing well in front of big teams because of neutral venue concept. 
 
 The technical committee, which is headed by former Indian captain  , had met last year on the day of the IPL final. Therefore, it is understood that this year's meeting would be around the same time.
 
 It was also revealed that the Committee of Administrators would take the final call whether to continue or not with the neutral venue after listening to the suggestions of the technical committee. “There aren’t many takers for this neutral venue concept, but if the technical committee decides against continuing with it, the board can reconsider the decision of scrapping the system completely,” a BCCI source told TOI on Friday.
 
 The neutral venue system at the domestic level was a pet project of former BCCI president  , who wanted to ensure that the pitch tampering by the home teams would stop completely. The board had said it will have a re-look after a year. But now, it may not see the light of the day if the technical committee votes against neutral venues.
 
 Even the office-bearers, who were a part of BCCI till recently, were vehemently against the idea of neutral venue. “It was almost forced down our gullet,” said one of them. Another official complained how the flavour of the tournament was missing because there was no home team playing at home. “Can you imagine if the India-Australia matches are played in South Africa, how many will come and watch those matches?” the official asked.
 
 The board would also consider the opinion of the grounds and pitches committee to determine the success rate of the neutral venue concept. “Everyone would be consulted before a decision on whether to continue with neutral venue is taken,” the BCCI source added.
 
