CHANDIGARH: The   ( ) has made it clear that bail to Jaswanti Devi, main accused in the infamous   of Rohtak, is a serious threat to the minor girl victims who are yet to be examined before the trial court. The central investigation agency has also apprehended that she may also flee to avoid the legal process, if enlarged on bail by the court.

 These submissions have been made by CBI before the Punjab and Haryana high court opposing the bail plea filed by Jaswanti. “Some witnesses including minor victims are yet to be examined and in case accused is enlarged on regular bail, there is every possibility of influencing/inducing of witnesses, especially minor victims who might feel threatened and may not depose freely before the court. There is also every apprehension of her fleeing to avoid the process of law,” said the superintendent of police (SP), special crime branch, CBI, Chandigarh in his detailed reply.
 
 In her plea, Jaswanti has sought her release on regular bail on the grounds of false implication and delay in completion of trial. Regarding her allegations of false allegations, CBI has told the court that enough evidence of torture and sexual abuse by Jaswanti has emerged and all the inmates of   Rohtak have deposed against her.
 
 It has also been claimed by the agency that during the examination and statements before the magistrate under section 164 of CrPc, several female victims have deposed that they were constantly raped in front of her by other accused Satish, Jaswant and Jai Bhagwan.
 
 Referring a specific instance, the CBI has submitted that even an inmate had deposed before the magistrate that Jaswanti had inserted scissors in her vagina. It was also claimed that the magistrate before whom the victims had deposed before section 164, has also been examined and corroborated before the trial judge.
 
 Regarding alleged delay in trial, CBI has submitted that the trial of the case is being conducted expeditiously by fixing the matter every week and every endeavour is made to conclude the trial at the earliest. According to CBI, out of 180 witnesses the evidence of around 130 witnesses is over, as 95 prosecution witnesses have been examined and 35 witnesses have given up/dead. Only 50 witnesses are yet to be examined
 
 The reply by CBI was submitted before the HC on Friday. Now the case would come up for hearing on July 6. On May 9, 2012 following tip off by three girls who had escaped from Apna Ghar and reached Delhi, the   (NCPCR) team had raided the Rohtak shelter home and found sexual exploitation of inmates in the hands of its caretaker Jaswanti and others. All were booked under various sections of IPC, Labour Bondage Act and Immoral Trafficking Act. She was arrested on May 10, 2012 and confined in jail since then.
 
 The matter was investigated by the CBI and at present the trial is going on at special CBI court Panchkula.
 
