AHMEDABAD: The finest varieties of authentic Japanese and Indian cuisine would be part of the platter served to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Japan PM  . Culinary experts and chefs from the city have ensured that along with the authentic cuisines, some delectable culinary creativity will also be served and Indo-Japanese fusion dishes such as Sushi-Dhokla and Sushi-Khichdi will also be served to the VVIP delegates.

 Sushi-Dhokla is the same Dhokla batter steamed in yaki nori sheets (made of edible seaweed and usually used as a wrap for sushi).Similarly, the traditional   khichdi will get a Japanese touch by khichdi rolled as sushi and served with a dip ­Wasabi Espuma.
 
 The two PMs will be given a presidential, sit-down three-plate service with a five-course menu, with each course having three sub courses. Extensive preparations for authentic Japanese cuisine as well as Indian cuisine have been made.
 
 "Miso soup, noodle soup, teriyaki fish, chicken yakitokri (a variety of skewered chicken), pork katsu curry, jasmine rice, sticky rice, tofu served in a variety of sauces and kappa maki sushi, among others, will be part of the menu at our hotel. Special Japanese bento boxes have been created for the delegates," said a spokesperson from   by Marriot.
 
 That apart, authentic Indian dishes including   and Kathiyawadi varieties, will also be included in the elaborate spread.
 
 Some 700 business delegates from Japan will be visiting Ahmedabad, along with Japan PM Shinzo Abe. Hotels are determined to put their best foot forward as hefty investments.
 
 Some of the hotels have called in for specialty chefs to ensure the culinary requirements are met."Chef Yasuhiro Ohara from our hotel group in Japan, is specially visiting Ahmedabad for ten days to per sonally look into the delicacies prepared for the delegates," said Sanjay Kaushik, general manager, Crowne Plaza ­ Ahmedabad.
 
 In fact, some of the hotels have also imported finest non-vegetarian items such as caviar, seafood, lamb, varieties of fishes, lobster and blue crab, among others to serve the delegates. More than 150 kg meat has been imported by a certain hotel from countries such as Australia, Dubai and  , among others.
 
 That apart, high-end liquor brands such as Glenfiddich, Lagavulin, Jameson Irish Whiskey, Belvedere vodka along with vintage wines such as Casamatta Bianco and Villa Maria and champagnes like Moet & Chandon and   have also been arranged for guests at the hotels.
 
