Mumbai:   (ARC) has started accumulating the distressed debt of   brandy maker  , a move which is whetting the hopes of potential acquirers like liquor baron  . Edelweiss ARC has bought more than 45% of the Rs 800-crore debt and is in discussions with existing lenders to mop up the remaining. 

 While Edelweiss is mopping up the debt from Punjab National Bank and IFCI, it is still in discussions with other lenders, including State Bank of India. Thereafter, it will kick-start a restructuring plan involving conversion of debt into equity and infusing additional working capital, if necessary. 
 
 ARCs work on stabilising businesses and making stressed debts sustainable through a turnaround plan or sale of assets, among other options. The Dahanukar family-controlled Tilaknagar is hoping to work with Edelweiss on a turnaround plan.
 
 Chhabria, who owns the country’s third largest liquor company Allied Blenders & Distillers, is writing to Edelweiss, putting them on notice about the disputed ownership of Mansion House brand, the key asset of the Mumbai-based Tilaknagar. Dutch distiller   along with Chhabria are fighting in Indian courts to reclaim the brand, though the initial court orders went in favour of Tilaknagar.
 
 Chhabria and the other likely suitors will be closely tracking the restructuring moves of Edelweiss. 
 
 When contacted, Edelweiss, Tilaknagar and Chhabria declined to comment on the report.
 
 Besides Mansion House, Tilaknagar has a primary distillation facility at Shrirampur in Maharashtra and a few small bottling plants. Mansion House sells over 5 million cases of   in large southern markets.
 
 Chhabria’s ABD had been in protracted talks to acquire Tilaknagar but this broke off last year. One of the oldest European spirits makers, Harman Jensen had collaborated with Tilaknagar in the 1980s to develop the brandy market locally. Tilaknagar said it built Mansion House into a big brand in India and has successfully registered and trademarked the brand locally.
 
 Jensen decided to partner with Chhabria, and both have informed the appeals court that they own Mansion House equally in India.Notwithstanding Chhabria’s legal pursuit, Mansion House may also be of interest to some rival MNCs and domestic distillers seeking trade and distribution influence in the southern states. Brandy is the second largest flavour category after whisky in India’s spirits consumption estimated at 315 million cases of 9 litres each.
 
 
