KOLKATA: The fate of over Rs 450 crore worth of liquor stock is hanging in balance following the review order of   banning liquor sale within 500m of national and state highways. The 2,140-odd liquor retailers on highways in the state is worried about this huge stock of  . 

 P Saha, the secretary of   Excise Licensee Association, pointed out the big retails have even Rs 2-3 crore worth of stocks lying with them. In an average it would be Rs 15-20 lakh per shops. “These are excise-paid stocks. For the entire liquor stock with retailers, the excise duty has already been paid,” he added.
 
 The wholesalers of India Made Foreign Liquour here too are worried because it has around Rs 200 crore outstanding with these liquor shops. “This move by the court has blocked our Rs 175-200 crore,” a leading wholesaler and a member of the West Bengal Foreign Liquor Manufacturer Wholesalers and   said. The wholesalers are worried because the state is planning to take up the wholesale distribution business of liquor and it has over 450 crore due with the retailers which they were trying to recover. 
 
 However, excise officials made it clear neither retailers nor the wholesalers should be worried about the stock. “The SC has not asked them to close the shop but has asked them to relocate. We are also open to issuing license to them in the new location provided the new location comply with excise regulation about educational institutions and space of worship,” he added. The excise official also pointed out in case the retailer is unable to identify a new location, then there is provision in the excise Act that he or she might approach the excise commissioner or district excise collector for selling the excise-paid stocks. “The district collector generally allows such retailers to sell stock at wholesale price to some other retailer in the district,” he added.
 
 There are 2,140 off-shops within the SC specified limit on highways in the state. These shops employ over 10,000 people and generates at least over Rs 1,000 crore revenue for the state. Incidentally, There are total 5,500 liquor outlets in the state and a major chunk is on highways. An official of   said liquor trade on the highways is a lifeline for 25,000 people in Bengal. Incidentally, the state has mopped up Rs 41,000 crore from excise last year. This year the revenue is likely to be more. The total liquor industry in the state is worth Rs 23,000 crore.
 
