AHMEDABAD: With a pile of demands ranging from getting nod to sell gas under   to availing   for their  ,   owners led by  , younger brother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Sunday gave ultimatum to the Gujarat government either to accept their demands or face indefinite strike of fair price shops from May 28.

 Modi, president of Gujarat Fair Price Shop Owners and Kerosene License Holder Association, said that the Gujarat government has continued to turn deaf ears towards their demands, and they are left with no remedy but to go on indefinite strike. 
 
 Gujarat has around 22,000 fair price shop owners and kerosene license holders who distribute the essential commodities to around 1.2 crore ration card holders including beneficiaries under BPL and Antyodaya schemes.
 
 Of the total, 65 lakh card holders come under the purview of National Food Securities Act, while 55 lakh ration cards have been declared void. 
 
 A statement issued by Modi said, “The government has adopted a policy to make Gujarat kerosene free and the Union government, too, has reduced stock of kerosene sent to Gujarat. Along with that, government has begun supplying gas to customers under Ujala scheme.”
 
 “As we, the PDS and kerosene distributors of the state, have been deprived of earning our livelihood, so, according to natural justice, the government should allow us to distribute Ujala gas and 5kg gas cylinders so that we can get our income.” 
 
 Modi also said that Gujarat has 1.20 crore ration card holders including BPL and Antyodaya card holders. After the Food Security Act came into effect, around 55 lakh cards have been declared void. Those cards should be reactivated again.
 
 Modi later told reporters that he has submitted representations to the food and civil supply minister- Jayesh Radadiya, and director of food and civil supply department, but their demands were not considered.
 
 “When I made representation recently, the minister and the secretary told me that they would draw chief minister Vijay Rupani’s attention towards our demands,” said Modi. 
 
 “If the government gains wisdom and considers our demands, then it would be in interest of fair price shop owners and the people of Gujarat,” Modi said.
 
