KOLKATA: Traders in the   belt have been for the past three years protesting against the influx of hawkers that has smothered the heritage market, driving away shoppers and forcing several store-owners to down shutters. Now, their voice has finally reached the top administration. 

 Sources in Nabanna said the chief minister’s office (CMO) had now promised to redress the traders’ grievances. A senior official from the CMO recently called two key functionaries of the Joint Traders Federation (JTF)—a platform of more than 5,000 traders from New Market, Sreeram Arcade, Firpo’s Market, Treasure Island and some other shops—to inquire about its letter to it on the plight of traders, thanks to hawkers laying siege to streets leading to the market. 
 
 TOI, in a series of reports, have highlighted the lawlessness in the area, exposing how pavements, including Grand Arcade, have been illegally sold at astronomical rates, parking lots occupied, half the surrounding streets encroached upon and shoppers harassed. But the KMC, which owns New Market, and the police ostensibly continued to turn a blind eye. 
 
 But following the CMO’s queries, traders said their fight against the hawker Raj, which threatened the very existence of the heritage market, was finally yielding fruit. “The CMO official assured us the matter would be conveyed to the CM and the police commissioner would be asked to take steps,” a JTF member said.
 
 Now that the CMO has stepped in, mayor  , who had earlier rebuked traders for making a “fuss” and backed the hawkers, changed tack and met a JTF delegation on Tuesday to discuss what they wanted. The answer was simple: comply with the civic body’s rules laid down following a meeting on hawking the CM addressed at Nazrul Mancha. The traders stressed on three demands: first, roads around New Market, particularly Bertram Street and Humayun Place, needed to be cleared. Secondly, two-third of pavements had to be freed. Thirdly, parking lots had to be freed to ensure shoppers could leave their cars there. Sources said the mayor, in principle, agreed to two, asking the deputy commissioner of police (central) to evict hawkers from the streets. 
 
 Traders are, however, sceptical as they have seen “Chatterjee issue a similar order, without it having any lasting effect on the ground”. Driven away, hawkers had returned to occupy more road space than earlier. “ The administration has to honour the policy, which says hawkers can’t occupy a carriageway or over a third of a  ,” said Rajeev Singh, a joint secretary at JTF. 
 
 
