COIMBATORE: Lack of facilities and the increasing number of accidents has turned the   GH into a pass-over hospital. In 2015, 638 accident patients were recorded there while in 2016, the number rose to 873. The number of   increased by 100. Most cases are referred to   (CMCH). Often, the patient dies before he reaches Coimbatore. Patients say that the lack of ramps forces patients to be carried up the stair case.

 Mettupalayam’s proximity to Karamadai, Nilgiris district and Velliangadu has led to an increase in accident cases coming to the GH. However, because of the lack of facilities, many cases are referred to Coimbatore. “Without a trauma care centre, it is difficult to treat accident victims. Sometimes, we cannot even give first-aid. We just directly refer them to save time,” said a doctor. Another woe is lack of ramps. All these accident victims are carried manually using stretchers. “A person with broken bones and other injuries, undergoing extreme pain, should not be carried up the stair case. The hospital does not have ramps and adequate attenders. Most often, relatives and ambulance drivers carry the patient,” said Suresh, a patient at GH.
 
 Some doctors in the hospital complained of the poor quality of the drinking water being supplied which is also used for cooking food. “The kitchen is being operated from a demolished building and lacks sanitation,” said a patient. There are just two sanitary workers appointed for the entire GH.
 
 While toilets were constructed, facilities for disposal were not set up. “We have asked a local NGO to help us construct a septic tank for the toilet. We will inaugurate the new toilet soon,” said medical officer Seralathan of the GH. Several NGOs, college students and other philanthropists are involved in the cleaning and maintenance of the hospital, he said.
 
 “Since we are a taluk headquarters hospital, most facilities are not provided to us. We want the government to change its policy and consider the number of beds and patients when it comes to providing facilities and amenities,” said Seralathan.
 
 
