NEW DELHI: Remember Carles Puyol?

 Caveman Puyol? The same wild-haired, tough-tackling but fair-playing Spain and Barcelona legend, often hailed as one the best defenders of his generation, scorer of that thumping headed-goal that broke Germany's back in the 2010 World Cup semifinal?
 
 Puyol was in the Capital on Monday to launch the ticket sales for the   to be played in India from October 6-28. He handed over the commemorative first ticket to   - grand-daughter-in-law of Shibdas Bhaduri, captain of the famous Mohan Bagan side of 1911 which beat the East Yorkshire Regiment to win the IFA Shield.
 
 It was an evening laced with strange contradiction. Ms Bahduri's presence was meant to invoke memories of a watershed moment in Indian football, a sporting symbol of nation building in the fight against British imperialism. That it did, but it was ironical that it comes at a time when the Indian sport's traditional structure and identity is under grave threat from imperialists of a different kind and   finds itself caught in the middle.
 
 But, surely, Puyol wasn't to be aware of all this. As Fifa's global ambassador for the juniors World Cup, the affable Spaniard was fitting his role to the T. Attired in a practice kit, the former Barca captain affectionately hugged a famous Indian captain's descendant. Then he was ready to hit the turf, but not before a little bit of stretching before the ceremonial match, where he eventually ended up as a referee ­ perhaps the most fit referee you'd ever see.
 
 But, Puyol couldn't stay away from the ball for long. He showed his defending skills, impressively against the assembled kids and easily, against two present Union Ministers. His message later was loud and clear. "Enjoy your game whenever you take the field. Listen to your teachers and coaches," he said, and them reminded them, "Enjoying the game also means that you have to study and keep your focus intact."
 
 As part of his promotional role for the World Cup, Puyol will be present at the IPL game in Mumbai on Tuesday. He made it sure that he will be back when the October event kicks-off in India. "I am happy to be in India. I am also glad that India is helping to promote world football. I will be happy to come back here in October." We'll wait again. 
 
