MEERUT: After getting a bust of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin   installed in their office premises, now Akhil   members are set to install the bust of  , Godse’s co-conspirator. The foundation stone laying ceremony was conducted on Friday, on the 107th birthday of Godse, at the organization’s Sharda Road office here.
 
  “To celebrate the birthday of Godse, a ‘havan’ was conducted after which 101 kg of ladoos, which a follower from Delhi had got, were distributed among activists and locals here. Also, we did not want the Godse’s birthday to go waste, so we thought of starting the process of setting up Apte’s bust on this day and hence conducted the foundation stone laying ceremony,” said Pandit Ashok Sharma, national vice-president, Hindu Mahasabha.
  
  On the occasion, Godse was remembered for his “good deeds” and floral tributes were offered to his bust installed in the office premises.
  
  Last year, the right-wing organization had installed and unveiled Godse’s bust on Gandhi Jayanti, observing it as “Dhikkar Divas”, symbolically shunning the principles of Gandhi.
  
  “A two-foot-high white marble bust of Apte is ready in Delhi and will be brought to Meerut at the right time. Just like Godse’s bust, Apte’s bust will also be the first in the country to be installed,” said Madan Acharya, outfit’s national general secretary.
  
  Asked why Apte’s bust was being installed, Sharma, said, “Gandhi was assassinated by both Godse and Apte. The court had punished both. The only difference is that people talk about Godse but have forgotten Apte. This will be a way to remember Apte.”
  
  The outfit’s activists also made public a CD of Godse’s last speech, which Abhishek Agarwal, Meerut district president of the Mahasabha, had received from Godse’s family in Maharashtra. “Copies of this CD will be made and distributed among people to make them know about Godse’s policies and thought process,”said Agarwal.
  
  Apte, who worked with Nathuram Godse for almost six years under the Hindu Mahasabha, was present on the spot of Mahatma Gandhi's assassination, with Godse. He was executed by hanging, simultaneously with Godse, on November 15, 1949, at Ambala jail.
