KOCHI: It has been almost a year since two transgenders were assaulted by the police in Kochi. The police had humiliated them then by asking them to `flash their privates', before beating them up. The   in a state that had brought out a transgender policy came as shock to many and police felt the heat as protests were staged against this incident.

 Community members, who recollected the set of events that happened last year, claimed that the issue had started in last July. However, the chain of events seems to have changed their fortunes as over 20 members of the community were selected for jobs by  .
 
 Their travails began in the first week when a group of transgenders in Kochi clashed with community members who arrived from other states. “The clash happened because they were extorting money in trains. We questioned them because such activities affected our reputation as well,“ said a member of the community.
 
 The clash led to the arrest of 11 members of the community, who cried foul and alleged that the police had forged a case to arrest them. On the other hand, police said the group was arrested as they had extorted money and stolen mobiles from a group of north Indian eunuchs from Perumbavoor.The next day , two transgenders were assaulted by the police.
 
 According to police, they were confronted by officers who were deputed to observe the activities of transgenders. There were repeated complaints about them indulging in criminal activities. While police maintained that they were arrested after hurling abuses at officers, community members had a different story to tell.
 
 According to transgender activists, police addressed them as men and asked them to move away from Valanjamba lam at 11pm. When they responded saying that they are women, they were beaten.
 
 While protest erupted from all corners in the city on this atrocity, there was also a debate on what could be done. This led authorities to do something about the unemployment among this community's members.
 
 TOI had carried a comprehensive report a couple of days ahead of the assault, detailing how the community was forced into prostitution as public and private firms refused to hire them. The events, however, led to a significant increase in the acceptance of the community members among the public.
 
 Last week, police had convened a meeting with transgender activist where they said that a few members of the community were still responsible for some petty thefts and crime in the city.
 
