Madurai: The state government on Tuesday issued a government order for the implementation of a scheme to convert trawl boats operating from Palk Bay into   vessels at a cost of Rs 80 lakh each. A joint project of the Union and state governments, the plan is to convert 500 trawlers to enable deep sea fishing (tuna liner and gill netter) in 2017 – 18, another 500 in 2018 – 19 and 1,000 more trawlers by 2019 – 20.

 The order comes in the backdrop of the simmering dispute between Sri Lankan and Indian fishermen over fishing in traditional fishing grounds for over three decades. This was also a major bone of contention between the two sides during the recent fishermen talks with the Indians accused of resorting to destructive trawl fishing destroying the sea bed and marine wealth. During the talks, Indian fishermen appealed for a period of three years to move to deep sea fishing and sought the assistance of state and Union governments in this regard. 
 
 Based on this demand, Commissioner of Fisheries had written to the Union Government seeking financial assistance. The plan was to convert 2,000 large size trawlers from the Indian side at Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram districts and move these deep sea fishing vessels out of Palk Bay. Government of India responded promptly providing the administrative sanction for replacing 750 trawler boats from Palk Bay in the first phase and released a sum of Rs 200 crores. Union ministries of finance and agriculture released the sum in two installments of Rs 100 crores each. 
 
 Under the plan, Union government will contribute 50 % of the fund to construct the boats - which means Rs 40 lakh will be given by Centre while the state government will provide 20 % or Rs 16 lakhs including boat insurance, the beneficiaries - fishermen - have to contribute 10 % (Rs 8 lakhs) and the remaining Rs 16 lakhs should be raised as institutional finance. 
 
 To lessen the beneficiary’s burden further, the state government has suggested that 10 % contribution could be met by scrapping the trawler in hand and it will provide subsistence allowance of Rs 5,000 per family. As many as seven families including that of the owner depending on the trawler to be scrapped will be provided this allowance for three months in the last phase of boat construction. With the Rs 200 crores sanctioned by Union government and itself contributing Rs 86 crore including the component of subsistence allowance, the state government has proposed to build 500 deep sea fishing vessels in the first phase, the government order stated.
 
 
