PUNE: Residents of Aundh and surrounding areas kick-started their Sunday with a bang. With Happy Streets returning to Aundh, people's enthusiasm could be seen in the huge turnout for the event. 

 While dancing to Bollywood tunes with Zumba and dance workout sessions continue to attract hordes of enthusiasts, many new attractions premiered at the event this Sunday. Trying to imitate a flamingo,   could not stop smiling for the camera. Her father Ganesh tried to capture the moment as   posed alongside a 3D artwork laid out on the street. Created by artist   and partner Krishna SSR, the artwork was a big attraction.
 
 "I thought Happy Streets would be a great means to present street 3D art, which is not very popular in our country. The audience response is amazing. I am glad I came here," said Agrawal, who is a software engineer.
 
 Away from the thumping Zumba zone, volunteers of Heartfulness, a meditation and relaxation institute, offered participants earphones so they could listen to an audio to help them mediate and relax. People were also seen trying their hand at a variety of yoga postures and breathing exercises.
 
 Apart from entertainment, some participants also used Happy Streets as a medium to spread awareness.  , an outreach assistant with SWaCH, a city-based organisation that works towards waste management, was busy explaining why segregation is a crucial activity.
 
 "We want to create a sense of responsibility among residents. It is important that they segregate waste at home, as this reduces a lot of our workload and helps recycle products," Damre said.
 
 Kids and youngsters were seen zooming past the crowd on their skates and skate boards, taking advantage of the cordoned off road. There was also a long queue waiting to pick up free cycles on offer at Happy Streets.
 
 The chalk art venue was flocked participants, who were busy displaying their drawing talent, while grooving to the loud music played at the adjacent dance session. The sports arena was dominated by football and badminton enthusiasts, who seemed to making optimum use of the space while running around and chasing each other.
 
 37-year-old professor Shridharan Iyer was glad to be awake early on his day off work. 
 
 "It is a great way to start a Sunday, which is otherwise spent lazing around. It also helps children socialise and meet new people. I make it a point to attend all Happy Streets events that are organised in nearby areas
 
 Happy Streets is an initiative started by The Times of India and   in collaboration with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pune Municipal Corporation. 
 
