AHMEDABAD:   may excite the young but it is not a good time for the heart’s health, literally. In Ahmedabad, there has been a rise of 24% in   in December and January as compared to the  .

 According to data with EMRI 108 emergency services about the city - the four winter months in India are November, December, January and February. In 2016, EMRI received 1020 calls for help in heart ailments. The number went down to 825 in summer months - March, April, May and June. The decline indicated that there was nearly 24% hike in calls about heart ailment in winter months. 
 
  Nearly 30% of the total calls made in Gujarat regarding heart disease was in Ahmedabad.
 
 EMRI officials said that in January 2017, in the first 20 days of the month, 209 cases have been reported. This is higher than the average number of cases registered in all the summer months taken together, the officials said. For Gujarat, the figures are relatively low as the state reports 17% rise in cases during winter months.
 
 Chest pain, associated with the heart problem is generally two times higher than specific cardiac problems in any given month, said EMRI officials. “Depending on the history of the city or district, ambulances that are fitted with special devices to handle cardiac disease are deployed so that treatment can begin before the patient reaches hospital,” said an official.
 
 Cardiologist Dr Tejas Patel said that winter is a challenging season for the heart. 
 
 “Cold weather causes spasms in the arteries making them more prone to plaque ruptures which can cause heart attacks. Those with heart disease become more vulnerable during winter,” said Dr Patel.
 
 Cardiologist Dr Sameer Dani said that he has witnessed nearly 50% rise in the number of emergencies caused by heart attacks during the winter months of December and January this year. Known patients of heart disease especially tend to become unstable in winter, he said. 
 
 “The body has to work harder to keep itself warm during winter, thereby putting greater load on the heart. Moreover, there are great chances of plaque ruptures in the arteries rendering the heart vulnerable to attacks,” Dr Dani said. He added that many reports also suggest that blood pressure too shoots up during winter.
 
 
