One of the most anticipated films this year, Server  , which has   in it, has a unique plot. The film is directed by   Balki and has Santhanam playing the role of a catering student. 'Here is a guy who finishes his engineering and doesn't get a job. He is forced into catering and what happens after that is the story. The movie is going to be about all things food' from how to hold a ladle, where to place the spoons, how to fold napkins to what vessels to use, etc. Back then, people would say 'unave marundhu', which meant that if you eat the right kind of food, you will not fall sick. But then, we didn't want to make it look like a televised cookery show, so we have added a lot of fun elements. I was trained by chef Paul, who taught me the basics in cooking. Towards the end of the movie, I have learnt to make a traditional Tamil dish that dates back to 600 years. You will learn more about this in the movie,' laughs Santhanam, adding, 'I have teased my wife a lot about her cooking ' in a light-hearted way, though. But now I realise that she makes all the food with so much love. We always have a soft corner for the food that our mother makes. That is because mothers make food with so much love and affection. I have come to realise that making food is nothing less than an art form,' he smiles. 
 
 Continuing the chat, the director of the movie, Anand Balki lets us in on the movie. 'We have seen a lot of movies set in engineering, medical and event arts college. But catering college is a rarity. Do we know what practical exams and theory classes happen inside a college? We have shown all these minute details in the movie. This is an underdog story where Santhanam calls himself an engineer and even gets angry when he is asked to cook. But how life changes for him forms the plot,' shares Anand, who has also put the limelight on traditional cooking. 'I have shown a lot of things that my grandmother used to tell me. We have all forgotten the ancient methods of cooking. In fact I have also shown the connection between yoga and cooking. But at the same time, I had to make sure the movie doesn't fall flat and that is where Santhanam comes into play. I have retained Santhanam's flavour throughout the movie. In fact, we took a single take of Santhanam cooking a dish for three minutes. The story takes us to a catering college, villages, Goa and Dubai,' he says. 
 
  The other important aspect of the film is that Bijesh, the grandson of Nagesh is the second hero in the film. A debutant, we can see the young actor playing a crucial role in the movie. 'He is with Santhanam throughout the film. Bijesh plays a very 'pavam' guy, but his character is the spinal cord of the movie and it is because of him a hero is formed. What amazed me the first time I met Bijesh is that he is almost a carbon copy of Nagesh and has the exact mannerisms. In fact, the only similarity between the older Server Sundaram and this one is that Bijesh will be seen doing the iconic 'cup scene' that Nagesh sir did effortlessly,' shares Anand, who has introduced around 14 new faces in the movie. The heroine of the film is played by  , who comes with a strong theatre background. Vinod, who played Adithangi in Maari, will be seen playing the comedian.
 
 
