PATNA: Walking politely with   flags, a combination of five horizontal stripes – two light blue, two pink, and one white in the centre – members of the transgender community took out a ‘pride march’ on Beer Chand Patel Path (from R-Block to Miller High School) here on Sunday.

 With an aim to make people realise that they too are human beings and should be accommodated in the mainstream, these people stood politely outside Miller High School, holding a banner, much to the surprise of commuters. 
 
 The march was part of the Transgender Day celebration for which transgenders from across the state had gathered in the state capital. Apart from pride march, they also walked the ramp and participated in various cultural activities. “We are capable of doing everything, be it dancing, modelling or singing. Today we have gathered here to raise our voice,” said Reshma Prasad, a member of the community.
 
 Mahi Gupta, a transgender from Katihar, walked on the ramp like a professional model. Draped in pink sari and heavy makeup, Mahi was confident in what she was doing. “I did the makeup without taking help from anyone,” Mahi said, adding, “We are capable of doing everything, but still many people consider us as aliens and misbehave with us.”
 
 Girish Kumar, regional manager of Voluntary Health Services (VHS), an NGO working for transgender community, said they will send their charter of demands to chief minister Nitish Kumar and his cabinet colleagues soon. “Issues concerning the transgender community were discussed at a panel discussion on ‘Towards the empowerment of transgender population in Bihar’ on Sunday. These issues will be raised before the CM and state ministers,” Kumar added.
 
 Some of the demands include formation of transgender welfare board, conduct of transgender population census, single window delivery system to help the community avail social schemes, reservation in education and employment for transgender and introduction of anti-discriminatory law for safeguarding their human rights. 
 
 
