HYDERABAD: Highways surrounding the city have become killing fields with as many as 352   recorded between January and March this year, which left 86 people dead and 290 grievously injured.

 The dangerous stretches include the Nagpur Highway (NH 44), Bangalore Highway (NH 44),   (NH 65), state highway Srisailam (SH 765), SH Bijapur, SH Narsapur, SH   and the Outer Ring Road ( ). 
 
 Authorities primarily attribute this jump in rate of accidents to   and also point to the fact that there has been a steady increase of 25-30% in purchase of high-end cars year-on-year. This is fuelling the thrill for speed among violators. When on highways, most motorists tend to test the speed limits of their expensive cars. 
 
 “Young buyers are often eager to test the upper speed limits of their cars. Since city roads are full of obstacles, they usually take them to the highways for such activity. But while the vehicles might be capable of going up to 400 kmph speed, the drivers aren’t sufficiently equipped to handle such high speeds. If there is a blind spot, sudden turning or wrong alignment either at a turn or after a break in the median, these drivers lose control, leading to accidents,” said a manager of a high-end car showroom.
 
 Traffic police (Cyberabad) reveal how vehicles often go at 240 kmph along the ORR and other broad roads in the city. Many high-end luxury cars even go up to 250-300 kmph.
 
 Road engineering defects also add to the severity of accidents, say experts. They estimated that at least 60% of the cases reported would have seen much less impact had engineering defects not existed. Records show there are 342 killer black spots in the state, which have resulted in 2,154 accidents and 1,114 deaths. “Of the total fatalities in road accidents in the state, 15% were recorded at these black spots. ,” said T Krishna Prasad, DG road safety.
 
 Driving with high beam that has a blinding effect on other drivers and drink driving are among the other key reasons. “Nearly 80-85% of accidents happen due to human errors. When speeding or drink driving combine with road engineering defects or high beams, the result is disastrous,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, road safety expert and founder Indian Federation of Road Safety.
 
