NEW YORK: Just a year after its biggest buyout ever—the takeover of the Indian cement portfolio of   for $1.4 billion, trumping bigger rivals Piramal and JSW—Nirma has set its eyes on an acquisition in the US.
 
    has emerged as a key contender for   in  , Wyoming, the fourth largest producer of   in the world, for $1.5-2 billion, said multiple sources aware of the ongoing negotiations.
  
  If successful, this will be the largest in the history of the 48-year-old company, one that will help it scale up and transform itself into a global force all at once.
  
  “Nirma made a binding offer after detailed diligence. Their team was in the US recently. This is the second time they are having a go at this asset, so they are pursuing it very seriously,” said an executive. “They are the only Indian (entity) left in the fray.”
  
  
  
  
  Soda ash or sodium carbonate is a commodity used mainly in the glass, detergent and food processing industries. Nirma is the largest soda ash producer in India followed by Tata Chemicals and Gujarat Heavy Chemicals Ltd (GHCL). In February, Tronox decided to sell the alkali chemicals business.
  
  The development came after the NYSE-listed Tronox announced a definitive agreement to acquire Cristal TiO2, the world’s second largest producer of titanium dioxide.
  
  Proceeds from the Tronox Alkali sale were to be used to help fund the acquisition of Cristal, a privately held global chemical and mining company, for $1.673 billion of cash and Class A ordinary shares, Tronox said in a public statement. It mandated Credit Suisse to run a formal sale process, anticipating a closure in the second half of 2017.
  
  The business was originally part of the soda ash operations of FMC Corp., which ran it for 65 years as a core part of its sprawling business. It divested the unit in 2015 to Tronox for $1.64 billion. Nirma made an unsuccessful bid for the business at the time, experts said.
  
  Tronox Alkali produces soda ash from two operations in the Green River area of Wyoming, employing about 1,000 and generating $800 million in revenue. The business accounts for around 22% of global natural soda ash capacity and over 5% of the total production of the chemical.
  
  The capacities are divided between the Westvaco (3.2 million tonnes) and Granger (0.5 MT) operations. In addition to soda ash, the Westvaco operation is also a major producer of other sodium chemicals including sodium bicarbonate. There was no response to emails sent to Tronox and Nirma on Friday and Saturday, respectively.
  
  
 
  Nirma is among the world’s biggest soda ash producers along with Tata Chemicals, Solvay, Ciner Group, Tronox and China’s Huanghua Tianxin Chemical Industry Ltd. The Indian company has been present in the US natural soda ash market since November 2007 when it acquired Searles Valley Minerals (SVM) and its three manufacturing units in California for $200 million. SVM was among five natural soda ash manufacturers in the US and the acquisition put Nirma in the world’s top seven producers of the chemical.
  
  In 2005, Nirma acquired the ailing Saurashtra Chemicals after outbidding Tata Chemicals to emerge as the largest soda ash manufacturer in the domestic sector. Both the Indian rivals have been aggressive acquirers of assets to ramp up global aspirations.
  
  Also in 2005, Tata Chemicals bought UK-based Brunner Mond to emerge as the third largest soda ash maker in the world with a total capacity then of 300,000 tonnes.
  
  “Soda ash as a business is relatively stable and fairly profitable. Globally there is no major mismatch expected between demand and supply, thereby giving it a reasonable stability in terms of pricing. After initial years of massive capacity expansion, even China has now gone slow on incremental capacities. One would expect sizeable traction for this asset from large chemical companies and PE funds and it should fetch a premium to Tronox,” said Navroz Mahudawala, founder, Candle Partners, a Mumbai-based investment bank. “While the soda ash businesses of all large Indian players (Tata Chemicals, GHCL and Nirma) are fairly capital intensive, they are all efficiently run and generate good ROCEs (return on capital employed.” One of the sources cited above said Nirma’s bid is likely to be in the range of $1.2-1.5 billion, though this could not be independently verified.
  
  
 
  In 2016, the global capacity of soda ash was estimated at around 67 million tonnes with production of around 56-57 million tonnes. In terms of value, the sector is estimated at around $16-17 billion. Currently, the global market is estimated to be growing at around 6-7% per annum.
  
  Half the global capacity is present in China (capacity 32 million tonnes, production 26 million tonnes), followed by America and Europe.
  
  Analysts believe that the US demand-supply scenario in recent times has been stable, aided by normalcy in China, which led to a sizeable reduction in imports from there to India in FY17, with the decline pegged at 75%.
  
  The US, which produces natural soda ash, has a capacity of about 12.7 MT and produced 12.2 MT of it. US production is stated to have grown by 2% in 2016 while domestic demand fell 2% from 2015. The US exported 6.67 MT, 46% of it to North and South America, which are its natural market.
  
  Exports to the Indian subcontinent are a paltry 2%. Although naturally produced soda ash (as that from the US) has cost benefits over synthetic material that is dominated by the Chinese (cost of production is about 50% lower), there is not enough supply of natural soda ash to cater to the entire global market. Synthetic soda ash accounts for around three quarters of global capacity.
