BENGALURU: District Cooperative Central Banks (DCCBs) in Karnataka are in trouble as they continued to accept demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes from customers even after the RBI prohibited them from doing so. The result: banned notes worth Rs 473.14 crore have piled up at the nine DCCBs in the state.

 This includes Rs 149 crore in Belagavi, Rs 115 crore in   and Rs 49.11 crore in Tumakuru. DCCBs across India are saddled with an estimated Rs 8,000 crore in demonetised notes. Further, the banks have to pay customers interest on these deposits.
 
 Initially, DCCBs were allowed to accept the notes, but RBI in a notification issued on November 15, 2016, barred them from doing so following reports that the banks were being used for money laundering. The banks continued to accept the notes till November 17, claiming that the RBI notification had not been communicated to them properly.
 
 “We accepted deposits from customers thinking that we were allowed to do so since DCCBs are approved by RBI. Now we are in a fix as the money with us has no value and we have to pay customers 4% interest on it,“ said Chandrashekhara Hatti, general manager of  , which is saddled with old notes worth Rs88 crore. Hatti said they can't deposit the notes in currency chests, which fetch them 7% interest.
 
 Several DCCBs moved the   challenging the RBI directive and the apex court last month asked the central bank to look into the issue. RBI in turn asked National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) to verify whether the know your customer (KYC) rules had been followed in the case of DCCB savings bank accounts and submit a report. Nabard submitted its report last week and the RBI decision is awaited.
 
 “We have given our report about DCCBs in Karnataka. It is now up to the RBI to make a call,“ said M I Gungi, chief general manager of Nabard, while refusing to divulge the findings of the report. Sources said Nabard had found no irregularity in deposits accepted by DCCBs. “No case of money laundering has been re ported. We hope RBI makes a decision at the earliest to resolve the crisis,“ said E V Ramana Reddy, principal secretary to revenue department.
 
 B S Harish, joint registrar of cooperative societies, said the state government has written to RBI, requesting it to expedite its decision. Chief minister Siddaramaiah had earlier written to Prime Minister   and Union finance minister   explaining the plight of the DCCBs. “The state has done its bit to move both the central government and RBI,“ said Harish.
 
 Cooperative department officials said DCCBs have a strong case and hoped the RBI would decide in their favour.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 It's lack of communication that led to cooperative banks continuing to accept demonetized notes after the RBI issued a notification banning them from doing so. The RBI should have ensured that the new rules reached every corner of the country immediately. Now the banks are stuck with crores of valueless notes. The banks continue to bleed as they cannot receive interest by depositing the money with the RBI yet they have to pay interest to customers. RBI was clearly unprepared for demonetization and customers are bearing the brunt of it. It's been over three months since the notification was issued; RBI should quickly decide on what to do with the cash.
 
