PANAJI: A day after taking charge as minister for   (WRD), Siolim MLA   paid the department’s head office at Porvorim and section office at  , Panaji, a surprise visit on Tuesday only to find a few employees napping and a few others missing while on duty. When he left two hours later, he had ordered show-cause notices against the ‘missing’ employees.
 
  The first time minister also directed the WRD head of department to issue warnings to those who were found sleeping during office hours.
  
  Palyekar, who was allotted the WRD ministry on Monday, after meetings with senior officials on Tuesday morning, decided to pay the department’s offices a surprise visit.
  
  At the Porvorim office   found staffers taking a siesta. “I reached there about 4pm and found some employees sleeping. I woke them up,” he said.
  
  Some staff members were also found loitering outside the office. “I spotted five-six employees outside the office standing idle,” Palyekar said, adding that he has warned them that any kind of dereliction of duty will not be tolerated and that he will continue to pay the office surprise visits.
  
  At the Patto office, he discovered that some employees were away though office registers showed that they were on duty.
  
  “I was told that two junior officers had gone on field duty, but no explanation was offered as to why they had not signed the master roll before proceeding for field work. And, when I asked to see the movement register, I was told there was none,” Palyekar said.
  
  A LDC and work assistance, who were not present in the office during Palyekar’s visit, have also been slapped with a show cause notice.
  
  The department has issued the memorandum and asked the four employees to file their replies by March 24.
  
  The minister visited all sections of the department and checked the attendance registers. Palyekar also met chief engineer, water resources department, S T   and ordered a status report on all projects currently undertaken by the department.
  
  The minister seemed to have made a positive impression on senior officials. “I haven’t seen a minister visiting the department on the first day of his office in my 30-year tenure. His enthusiasm is commendable,” one of them said.
