 has always been more of a doer than a talker. As the incident of the assault on a Malayalam actress sent shockwaves across the industry recently, the filmmaker quietly announced that she and a group of friends would be launching a project which aimed at teaching young children to “question gender bias”. The pilot project of the venture, titled  , took off recently.

  Although the timing coincided with the assault on the actress, Anjali says that the idea was conceived a year back. “We started research on it a year ago. We were concerned about the state of affairs, especially about gender portrayals in media. It was quite disturbing to see the trend, especially to see children injected with wrong perceptions about gender imbibed from adults. A group of us got together, studied various initiatives in the gender field and discussed what the solution could be.”
  Anjali has associated with Compassionate Kozhikode (CK) for their initiatives like Operation Sulaimani and Our Responsibility to Children. “I was happy to find a network of individuals who were motivated towards real social change. When the need for a gender sensitisation programme was discussed with CK, they welcomed the idea and it was decided that the pilot programme could be held in Kozhikode under their aegis,” she says. Thus Parasparam was born, as a collaboration with CK, a media and arts collective, a socially responsible travel company and Anjali’s own film company.
 
  The more they discussed and interacted with people, she says, the more they realised that the problem is “all over the place”. ‘It’s in the environment — in media, in what is followed in family, taught in school. We decided that we should start with the children for a significant change, and as a result, we designed a programme that would be suitable for the age groups we had identified i.e., 7-9, 10-12 and 13-14 years in consultation with the rest of the team.
  So what exactly is taught in the programme and how? “It’s basically identifying and questioning bias, specifically gender bias. But it’s not about placing any one gender over another; it’s just about questioning perceptions and feelings about gender. We ask simple questions to the children like what they associate a certain object with, for example, car keys.
  
 They might immediately associate it with a particular gender,” she says. “Starting from that point, it develops. Objects don’t have to be genderised but children do it because of how they have been conditioned. The idea is not to preach or teach them anything but to help them arrive at their own conclusions. Anything learnt from experience is learnt for life.”
 
  However, the programme is fully practical and not theoretical. It comprises of modules of 24 hours in all, which are spread over three months, she adds. “It might sound academic but in practice they are taught through fun activities which they will enjoy but at the same time make them think. They have the freedom to question everything; we just give them a mind space to think, to let them know that the gender filter exists.” The programme is for girls as well as boys, with the motto, ‘bringing empowerment for girls and empathy for boys’.
 
 And how is the feedback to the announcement of Parasparam? “Amazing!” She says. “We have been getting hundreds of emails from people all over the State and outside offering to contribute through their time, space, specialised skills, ideas. This is very important for us because we are in the process of identifying facilitators and training them.” Anjali adds, The facilitator is key to the success of the programme and Parasparam is seeking individuals who have empowered and empathetic mindsets. People say they are fed up with the increasing number of incidents of assaults on women, and that they want a change. But there is no short cut, there can be a real change only through education and awareness.
 
 “The response to the pilot programme is very heartening. The facilitators, children and parents have given encouraging feedback. ”
 Since Parasparam was announced, the team has been connecting with individuals and organisations in Kerala who have been quietly and diligently working in the field of gender for many years. “These are unsung heroes who deserve to be known. With Parasparam we hope to form a collective forum and invite partnerships so that we may consolidate individual strengths for a far reaching impact throughout the State,” concludes Anjali. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parasparam has been inspired by an anti-rape programme in Kenya. It was learnt that many teenage boys in Kenya believed it’s justifiable to rape girls who are out alone after dark, wear miniskirts, or are taken on expensive dates. Taking this into consideration, two programmes were launched for school children — ‘No Means No’ for girls and ‘Your Moment of Truth’ for boys. The number of rapes by girls’ friends and boyfriends among those involved in the programme came down drastically! “If it worked in a country like Kenya with massive rape statistics, it can definitely work in India,” says Anjali.
 
