KOLKATA: A Rs 25-crore Mamata balm for college teachers, including raising of their  , is likely to make a huge difference with   Partha Chatterjee’s controversial   (Administration and Regulation) Bill, 2017, scheduled in the Assembly on Thursday. Chatterjee stopped short of placing the Bill on December 9 following opposition from within the ruling Trinamool and the Left. But this time he banks on the Mamata sops to sail safe in the Assembly, making some changes to the original draft.

 The most significant change in the new draft is, however, political. Chatterjee has gone back on his bid to nominate “eminent educationist” as president of the college governing body and has compromised with his party interests instead. In the new draft, he has replaced it with “person interested in education” giving a long rope for the government to nominate an educationist or the likes of Arabul Islam, as the party chooses. Second, the new draft aims at bringing the minority-run institutions under government control when the earlier draft gave a “free-hand” to them. With the opposition, particularly BJP, raising the clamour of “minority appeasement” by the Trinamool government, the new Bill has curtailed the freedom providing that government-aided colleges for minorities will have to take prior permission from the government before framing their own rules and college constitution.
 
 However, the other controversial clauses — furnishing of annual confidential report of all employees by the college principal, transfer of college employees in public interest, or transferring their provident fund to state treasury — remain unchanged. Chatterjee hasn’t loosened the administrative grip on colleges/universities either. Institutions have to comply with the state act in letter and spirit. Chatterjee retains the “overriding effect” clause with the state government. He has only softened the words by dropping the provision of the state’s “withholding the monthly pay packet” of the defiant college. The new draft says that the government may take action as deemed fit. 
 
 Another point of contention was bringing college and university employees under public servant category that would make them liable for punishment, if they fail to discharge duties including those such as election duty in the general polls. The controversial provision has been done away in the new Bill. 
 
 During this two-month period between December 9, when the Bill was taken back, and February 9, Chatterjee met teacher organisations of all shades trying to allay their apprehensions. The discussions wouldn’t have any effect unless the CM announced sops for teachers at the Netaji Indoor Stadium meet.
 
 
