AHMEDABAD:   district collector has sought recovery of Rs 150 crore from 12 companies and individuals, including water supply minister Babu   and his family members, for the illegal mining of limestone in the last few years.

  District collector   on Monday filed an affidavit before Gujarat high court in this regard in response to a PIL alleging that the mining scam is worth not less that Rs 10,000 crore, but the government found that revenue recoverable is just Rs 252 crore. The PIL was filed by one Dilip Chauhan in 2013. In its affidavit, the state government maintained that Rs 252 crore may not be the final recoverable amount. This is because the recovery orders were issued to various parties which were found involved in illegal mining, but the parties approached the appellate authority at the Centre, which remanded back the matters for reconsideration.
 
 The district collector, however, admitted that there is rampant violation of law and the images of illegal mining presented by the petitioner were to a large extent correct. 
 
 There are 22 valid mining leases granted by the government in this area. 
 
 The officer also furnished various recovery orders, which asked Mangal Minerals — in which Bokhiria and his family have a share — to pay Rs 49.22 crore. Bokhiria’s kinsman, Paras Odedara was asked to pay Rs 9 crore,   Rs 30.02 crore, Prakash Minerals Rs 37 crore and Babu Joshi Rs 16.22 crore. The government has sought recovery taking the value of one metric tonne of mineral to be Rs 315.
 
 The petitioner alleged that data of illegal mining allegedly carried out by Bokhiria and his associates is not even the tip of the iceberg. 
 
 He submitted that the orders passed by district collector in connection with illegal activities cover merely a part of the large scam.
 
 The petitioner’s advocate B M Mangukiya said an area of over 20 sq km near Adityana in Porbandar district has been dug from 10 metres to 30 metres, and the scam can now be pegged at over Rs 30,000 crore.
 
 A bench of Justice A S Dave and Justice A Y Kogje is likely to hear this matter on Tuesday.
 
 
