BENGALURU: The power department is all set to make   mandatory in all sectors.

 Whatever be the need and whoever is the user — citizens who require pumpsets for borewells, builders who need them for residential apartments and commercial complexes to industries — the energy department will make it compulsory for everyone to purchase and install only those pumpsets which have got four or five stars in energy efficiency certification and are recognised by the bureau of energy efficiency.
 
 The department has already issued orders to Escoms to ask farmers to mandatorily use only energy-efficient pumpsets for  . “If they don’t comply, no new power connections will be given. Slowly, but surely, we are going to make energy-efficient pumpsets compulsory in all sectors, including domestic and industrial use,” energy minister D K Shiva Kumar said on Friday.
 
 As compared to other pumpsets, energy efficient ones help save at least Rs 10,000-Rs 15,000. “In the agriculture sector alone, nearly 36% power will be saved,” said the minister.
 
 According to the department, the state is currently supplying over 2,952 MW of power (of the 8,200 MW demand) to farmers. It is likely to save 1,062 MW if energy-efficient pumpsets are made mandatory for all 22 lakh farmers using the machines.
 
 The minister said existing users of non-energy efficient pumpsets will be given time to make the transition. Kumar said they have also written to the irrigation department to switch to energy- efficient pumpsets in the near future.
 
 
  
 
 The department will provide solar-powered pumpsets to draw water into artificial lakes to benefit wildife. “Having seen dried up waterbodies in Bandipur, I have asked the   (KREDL) to set up 20 solar pumpsets for animals in the national park. I have also written to the forest department saying the energy department wil bear the entire cost,” he said.
 
 Kumar said the location of the pumpsets and the designs will be identified and finalized by the forest department to avoid conflict or obstruction of animal movement.
 
 
