HYDERABAD: Worried that the deadly swine flu virus has possibly mutated, an alarmed state health department has sent swab samples to the   ( ), Pune, for confirmation as the state recorded the third highest case load in the country since January this year.

 The peculiar rise in cases of the   virus recorded in the southern part of the country hints at a possible mutation of the virus, authorities said.
 
 Since January this year, 2,626 cases were reported in Tamil Nadu, 1,813 cases in Karnataka and 1,224 cases were reported in  . A worried health department said it was in touch with other states over the issue as well.
 
 To find the reasons for the spike in cases during this time of the year, officials have sent samples to NIV for a thorough examination.
 
 “We need to find out why such a large number of cases are being reported in the sout hern region alone. The northern states have not reported such numbers. Only reports from NIV, Pune, can confirm if the virus has mutated in the southern region,“ said Dr K Manohar, director, National Institute of Medical Sciences ( ). While the virus spreads easily during winter months, such numbers have been unheard of during summer months, Manohar said. “Over the last four years, we have not witnessed such numbers during this time of the year. But people need not fear as the death rate is only about 1 per cent.However, people should take precautions,“ added Manohar. NIV scientists have found that the swine flu strain circulating in India this flu season is the Michigan strain, which was discovered four years ago in the US. The strain that has been in circulation in Telangana and other parts of the country thus far is the California strain. The change in strain has resulted in unusual spike in flu cases during summer.Apart from this, B group viruses are also in circulation in Hyderabad and elsewhere. The WHO, which reviewed the situation last month has suggested the Michigan strain vaccination for the year 2017-18.
 
 The state is also handicapped by the fact that only the Institute for Preventive Medicine (IPM) can check swine flu samples.
 
