High fashion in India used to be dominated by western influences, cuts and styles, broadly dominated by a few who decided the trends of the season. But now, couturiers have increased focus on indigenous textiles and handloom, restoring the 'Indianness' in Indian fashion. Major fashion events have been organized putting khadi, Banarasi silks and other Indian weaves on the ramp. The   is voraciously promoting Indian handloom under the aegis of Smriti Irani, organizing various events, bringing Indian handloom to the fore. The recently organized Textiles India 2017 at Mahatma Mandir in Gujarat was one such mega event. Sunil Sethi, president, FDCI, and founder, Sunil Sethi Design Alliance, says that the fashion fraternity’s prominent presence at the event showed that the industry has come a long way from being 'just glam' to a more serious body contributing to the Make in India campaign.

  
  Indian designers were a prominent part of the Textile India 2017 show in Gandhinagar
 
 
 There has been a sea change in the way fashion is spoken about in India. Now, no description in fashion is complete without the mention of fabric used or the kind of embroidery. Explains Sethi, "Initially, fashion was a concept borrowed from the west, but over the years, the pride of wearing something Indian has become fashion. Be it Banarasi weaves or ikat, the craft and textile heritage from different regions of India are the highlights of major fashion events, which has created awareness on Indian textiles. For example, at one of our fashion weeks, we celebrated the craft and fabrics from Jharkhand, one of the shows was about Bhagalpuri silk and the other about Muga silk from  . We have started to talk about textile traditions more often now, rather than just what’s in trend."
 
  
  
 
 
 Be it a fashion show to celebrate Banarasi weaves or a show dedicated to khadi or a campaign to promote cotton, the Union government has been promoting Indian textiles and weaves in collaboration with the fashion fraternity. Sethi says that this is the biggest change that has helped the fashion industry shed its 'only glam' image. Says Sethi, "Fashion has grown in countries like   and France because those countries have supported the industry. The   of England herself went to Leicester in UK where an Indian show was taking place, but in India, desi fashion was looked down upon for years. Fashion was considered to be only for the elite. It was only associated with glamour on the ramp and show of skin. Everybody is aware that after agriculture, textile and handloom is the largest employer in the country, so no government can ignore that, but it is only when Prime Minister   talks about khadi and textile tradition that people take it seriously. Textiles Minister Smriti Irani has been an active part of every campaign that she has initiated. We did an opening show dedicated to handloom at the fashion week and her presence at the front row was very encouraging for all designers, companies associated with the event and for the weaver community. There are steps being taken to elevate the status of weavers. The ministry of textiles has taken a very good cluster initiative where they have added a designer to each cluster (region). That designer will work closely with weavers in that region that come up with a collection that can be sold at a higher price internationally to help the weaver earn better. All these efforts are being lauded and there is more respectability given to fashion than ever before."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Sethi adds that there were always policies to promote textiles, but the change is that now someone is acting on those policies. "Fashion designers are being given a prominent position and a chance in the handloom and textile sector, which had never happened before. The bureaucratic process has been simplified. At Textiles India 2017, there were at least 20 Indian fashion designers in the front row. As part of the First Ladies’ programme during the India-Africa Forum Summit III, FDCI presented the show, Threads of Banaras. All this shows that the designers are now not just seen at parties; the new regime has certainly given us a serious face."
 
  
  
 
  
 The commerce and industry ministry and the   in collaboration with the FDCI hosted a fashion show during the Make In India week in Mumbai in February last year. Sethi, who is also a member board of governors of the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), says that an opportunity to be part of such a prestigious event helped gave the fashion industry a much-needed push. "When the Make In India campaign started, it seemed it was only for heavy industry, but we were fortunate that Mr Amitabh Kant gave us an opportunity to make fashion a part of it. We had the best designers of the country participating in it. We were recognised for our contribution in the campaign and given our rightful place among different industry giants," he adds.
 
  
  The PM with Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and   CM N Chandrababu Naidu at the event
 
 
 The emergence of the weaver as the hero and the designer as the facilitator is helping Indian fashion take centre stage in the global fashion scene. "Design intervention with the weavers' work to create the final product that appeals internationally is making India rise globally. After the fashion show at the Textile India event, someone came out and said to me that the beauty of Indian fashion is the power of Indian textile. An Indian designer is selling anywhere in the world because of the value additions of embroidery or use of different techniques which are special to India, presenting Indian craft in a modern way. That is where the collaboration of weavers and designers come in," says Sethi.
 
  
  
 
 
 
