KOCHI: French urban designer   left for her homeland on Saturday after a two-year stint with the   ( ). While in Kochi, she studied the city’s public transportation systems and seamless integration of various modes of transport as part of KMRL’s technical collaborations. As the urban designer bade goodbye she shared her vision of seeing the “city centre protected from cars”.

 Speaking to TOI, Hoyez said in the next five years she would love to see the city develop into a “harmonious area where there is more space for people to walk and cycle” – a space that is safer for pedestrians and cyclists. “Instead of constructing roofed areas along the walkways, there should be more tress to provide shade. Kochi should become a city with more open spaces,” she said.
 
 The urban designer is of the view that the city’s narrow bylanes could be redesigned to promote non-motorised transport (NMT). “This can be done with support of simple designs, and avoiding complicated constructions. Entry of private cars through these roads can be restricted,” she said.
 
 Citing the case of various cities in Europe she said they were replacing highways and doing with the practice of constructing flyovers. Instead, they were focusing on corridors for public transport. “Travelling in cars is expensive and time consuming in many European countries. Parking fees are as high as Rs 200 per hour. Cars are being used mainly by sick persons heading for hospitals and elderly citizens. Commuters find public transport the best option,” said Hoyez.
 
 Speaking about Kochi she said that 80% of the roads here are less than 5m wide, and it was possible to walk or cycle through them. Hoyez, who opted to cycle in the city or take a bus, said she found parents unwilling to let their children cycle as they considered it unsafe. “The issue can be addressed if dedicated cycle tracks are provided. If you move away from the city centre and take the coastal road to Alappuzha you will find more people cycling,” added Hoyez.
 
 She expressed concern over the demand for constructing more bridges across water bodies and flyovers in the city. 
 
