THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala water authority ( ) is on tenterhooks as the water in  , a major source of drinking water for city, is depleting at a fast rate. Of the 305 million litres of water pumped from Aruvikkara on a daily basis, only 180 MLD reaches the consumers. However, KWA’s attempts to reduce   by replacing old pipelines is stuck on hefty road restoration charge of the public works department ( ).

 The state government has recently given administrative sanction for replacing old premo and PVC pipes. The administrative sanction worth Rs 112.67 crore was sanctioned for various pipe replacement works in the city. 
 
 The works include replacing premo pipes between Observatory and Thycaud with 160mm PVC rider mains, replacing 400mm premo pipes from Kowdiar junction to Vellayambalam junction with 200mm ductile iron rider mains, abandoning of 700mm premo pipes laid between Peroorkkada and Ambalamukku junctions, abandoning of premo pipes from Kowdiar junction to Kuravankonam junction, abandoning of 400mm premo pipes and 200mm cast iron line from Kowdiar junction to Kuravankonam junction and abandoning of 400mm premo pipes laid between Ambalamukku and NCC road junctions.
 
 The officials of projects division of KWA said that PWD has demanded a hefty restoration charge for laying pipeline. The officials alleged that   division was charging Rs 5,857 per square metre while it was Rs 3,854 per square metre for all other PWD divisions.
 
  “In addition to the heavy amount, they will also charge 14% as centage charge. Ideally, such charges should be avoided for government institutions,” said a KWA official. The KWA officials approached PWD minister G Sudhakaran with a complaint that PWD Thiruvananthapuram division was charging a hefty price.
 
 The PWD is now revising the rate now. An official of PWD said that Thiruvananthapuram division revised the rate considering huge cost of bitumen. 
 
 “Now we have revised the rate to the Rs 3854/m2. However, the road cutting rate was fixed almost four years ago. It is high time the rate must be revised,” said the official. The official added that KWA will get consent soon.
 
 
