NEW DELHI: The numbers tell the story of why Delhi is clogged. In 2012, the city had 77.7 lakh registered vehicles. Four years later, this number reached 97 lakh. And yet, the number of legal   lots came down from 293 in 2012 to 263 in 2017. Amid these figures lies the trauma of a city where parking is a headache and illegal parking is rampant.

 The good news, say transport experts, is that this parking chaos can be tamed. Anumita Roy Chowdhury of the   underlines the need to identify Delhi’s legal parking lots as the first step in unclogging the city. “Demarcating parking lots will help in better enforcement,” said Chowdhury. The logic is simple: if parking lots are demarcated, levying parking charges and punishing violations will become easy because extension of the space allotted for parking will not be possible. “At present, cars are allowed to park till wherever the space allows. This is patently illegal and a waste of public space,” she added.
 
 Another expert, Shreya Gadepalli of the  , concurred on this. “Parking is a commodity, not a public good,” she insisted. “It’s not the government’s duty to provide parking.” Her prescription: build less, charge more and manage things better. When demand is high, increase the price, not the supply. And use the money earned to improve public transport.
 
 After demarcating parking space, the second step, according to experts, is to charge users suitably. “Use variable parking rates, avoid fixed annual payments, introduce price parity between surface and multi-level parking,” advised Chowdhury. Saying that parking facilities are magnets for traffic, Gadepalli reasoned that multi-level car parking too was not the answer to parking woes. “So long as parking on the streets is undefined, under-priced and unpunished, multilevel facilities will remain empty,” said Gadepalli.
 
 Requiring proof of parking availability at the time of purchasing cars could also help. Cities like Aizawl, Shimla and Gangtok have already made it a part of the vehicle registration process. “This limits not only misuse of public land but also gives space a premium value,” Chowdhury said. Forcing people to pay for parking, including in residential buildings, makes each inch of space count. 
 
 Gadepalli argued too that since parked vehicles ate away one-third to a half of precious street space for long hours, the effort should be to free this space for better use as footpaths, cycle tracks and bus rapid transit corridors.
 
 
