CHENNAI: Children in Class V are not able to write their own names, as calibre and quality of   have become poor, the Madras high court said, adding that many teachers had got their degrees and diplomas from 'letter pad teacher training institutes.' 

 Calling it a bitter reality, Justice N Kirubakaran directed the   ( ) to submit details such as number of teacher training institutes, the size of unemployed teacher training graduates, diploma-holders and to specify if so many teacher training institutes were necessary.
 
 "It is a bitter reality that even the state government is not bothered about the large number of institutions permitted by NCTE's southern unit. The standard of teachers is so poor that many students who study in fifth standard are unable to write their names," said Justice Kirubakaran.
 
 Blaming it on 'letter pad institutions offering teacher training courses', the judge said, "The reason for this situation is that many of the present day teachers themselves got diplomas/degrees from letter pad teacher training institutes without any infrastructure and regular classes. The standard and calibre of many teachers in Tamil Nadu is very low, and they are incapable of teaching students properly, taking the education level to rock bottom, and the students are unable to compete with students from other states. It is due to commercialisation of education."
 
 Unless some serious efforts are made by the authorities concerned, unemployment of graduates would loom large and the institutions would be manufacturing only graduates without any employment. It will not be in the interest of the society, Justice Kirubakaran said.
 
 Impleading suo motu the NCTE and the  , the judge directed them to answer the court's queries on March 27.
 
 The judge issued the directions on a writ petition filed by the Trichy-based SVI  , which challenged denial of increase in student intake for its B Ed and M Ed courses. The southern regional committee of NCTE had issued a notice to the institution saying its application would be rejected if it insisted upon the consideration of permission for both the courses.
 
 Framing nine questions for the authorities to answer, Justice Kirubakaran asked how many teacher training institutes/colleges were offering B Ed/M Ed courses and diplomas in the country and in Tamil Nadu. How many students had graduated so far from these institutions, how many of them were without employment and waiting before the employment exchange, he asked. He sought to know the number of such graduates passing out every year, and asked officials to spell out employment opportunities available to them. 
 
 Asking if there was any manpower policy available with the authorities, Justice Kirubakaran wondered if the southern zonal NCTE was mechanically granting approvals for institutions without any norms and without considering employment opportunity for candidates. He asked, "How many such institutions are enough or necessary in each state and whether present number of institutions are more or not?"
 
