HYDERABAD: School authori ties and parents in the city have welcomed the   search and Training's deci sion to revise the curricu lum after 10 years with many looking forward to having newer topics in the textbooks.

 The move comes month after the Central Board of Se condary Education made i mandatory for all schools to prescribe only NCERT text books. The NCERT is all se to introduce new syllabu and update all 182 textbook from the next academic year The chapters will be up dated and new developments like Goods and  , demonetisation among others will be added to the textbooks.
 
  School managements state that the textbooks updating will be a welcome move as the syllabus has become outdated. “It is a good move as students will get to know of new topics that they are not aware of until now. For instance, Economics did not have a topic on demonetisation, which was enforced in the country last year,“ said  , principal of  , Ramanthapur.
 
 Not just revision of curriculum, but the NCERT has also corrected spelling and printing errors in the textbooks that will be ready within a month and sent for printing immediately thereafter.
 
 After the CBSE made NCERT books mandatory in February this year, some schools criticised the NCERT as many had raised concerns over poor quality of illustrations, and spelling and printing errors.
 
 “While the technology has has advanced, students continued to study concepts such as cloning, which is now outdated. Therefore, revision of the curriculum along with correction of errors comes as a welcome move as students will be upda ted of the changes in the society with quality textbooks,“ said  , principal of P Obul Reddy Public School, which is mulling placing online order for the new books soon.
 
 The NCERT has made 1,334 changes at an average rate of seven changes per book.
 
 While the NCERT has also decided to enhance the quality of pages, parents are looking forward to having light weighing books. “While the NCERT is adding more topics, the books should not be heavy as it may only add to the child's burden of carrying heavy bags,“ said Neha Chanduri, a parent
 
