BHOPAL: State Congress president Arun Yadav, NSUI (National Students’ Union of India) national president Amrita Dhawan and its MP unit state chief Vipin Wankhede were injured during a clash with the police here on Monday afternoon as they tried to break through barricades near the Red Cross Square and march towards chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s official residence.

 The clash occurred during a demonstration by the Congress’s student organisation demanding the ouster of minister of state Sanjay Pathak for his alleged involvement in the Rs 500-crore   hawala scam. Agitators also demanded the reinstatement of former Katni SP Gaurav Tiwari who has recently been transferred to Chhindwara. Tiwari was investigating the hawala scam and the transfer of its money, allegedly, to a large number of accounts with Axis Bank, Katni Branch.
 
 Speaking to TOI, state Congress chief spokesperson KK Mishra said, “The police chased and beat up our NSUI workers. Not just stopping us on the streets, but for the first time police forced their way into state Congress office and assaulted our workers. The state unit president was rushed to JP Hospital from where he and the other two NSUI leaders have been shifted to Chirayu Hospital.”
 
 The agitation started around 1 pm when a large gathering of NSUI activists collected in front of the state PCC office. Arun Yadav, Amrita Dhawan, state Mahila Congress chief Mandvi Chouhan, former MP Sajjan Singh Verma were present on the dais. The leaders addressed the crowd and thereafter, started marching towards CM House.
 
 Shouting anti-BJP slogans, they had only walked to the next crossing when police barricaded the road. NSUI tried breaking down the barricade and police resisted by first opening water-canons. It was at this point that some agitators started throwing brickbats at the police. There was shoving, pushing, altercation with police personnel and even exchange of fisticuffs. Bhopal SP Rajesh Chandel told TOI that the force resorted to lathicharge to “bring the situation under control”.
 
 Arun Yadav and Vipin Wankhede sustained injuries on their heads and limbs, the Congress claimed. “This shows the dual face of the BJP,” said national Mahila Congress president Shobha Oza. “On the one hand, the prime minister claims demonetisation is a crusade against black money, and on the other, when ill-gotten hawala wealth has been revealed, no action is taken against a sitting minister in the BJP government,” she alleged.
 
 National NSUI chief Amrita Dhawan said the agitation against Sanjay Pathak and the removal of SP Gaurav Tiwari will now go to New Delhi. “Next we will protest at Jantar Mantar and demand the ouster of the minister from the BJP government here,” she said.
 
 
