Ludhiana: On the last day of counselling for Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Panjab Agricultural University, all 49 seats for girl students were filled on Thursday. Of these, 36 seats were in commerce stream and 13 in medical stream.

 Huge rush was witnessed at the school as the students who were counselled on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were told to drop in with their bags and belongings.
 
 The students were accompanied with their parents and the school authorities made sure that they didn’t face any problem. The school staff also turned a couple of rooms of the school into waiting areas.
 
 Separate teams were constituted to handle paperwork and assignment of hostel rooms to girl and boy students.
 
 As many as 66 boys and 121 students got hostel allotment on Thursday. The allotment process of hostel rooms will continue till Saturday.
 
 Nasreen, a student from Malerkotla who has taken the admission into non-medical stream, said, “I came here at 9 in the morning. I was pretty excited for the admission and been through my registration at earliest. ”
 
 Another student from Mehl Khurd, Jaspreet Kaur also took non-medical option. “I am excited and a bit nervous. My parents came to see off me. It took almost 4 hours to go through the admission process like getting medical done and other formalities.”
 
 Principal of Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Colonel Amarjeet Singh said the hostel allotment would continue till July 22 and the regular classes would commence from July 24 onwards.
 
 He added, “Several parents approached me for queries and they were told about the facilities we will be catering in the   along with the medical facility.”
 
 Kavita Rani and Rakesh Kumar, parents of Jyoti Bal from Macchiwara, were worried. “Being a single girl child, we are worried about her. We really want her to put her best in these two years and bring laurels to the school by getting good grades.”
 
 District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “A total of 78 seats are lying vacant, including 26 seats in commerce, 33 for medical and 19 seats in non medical. Students who want to apply again for vacant seats here at meritorious school can still register for the second entrance test till July 23. The test will be conducted on August 2.”
 
 
