JAISALMER: Due to poor condition and commercialisation of Sonar Fort, efforts are being made towards conservation of the 865 years old world famous heritage. Both municipal council and district administration are convincing 300families residing inside the fort premises to vacate the place but these families aren't willing to leave their ancestral home. One colony has already been readied for allotment to these families. 

 Fort residents believe that the world famous heritage is alive because of them and if they move out, the site will deteriorate. In a workshop organised for public representatives and officers of local bodies, CM Vasundhara Raje said government has taken initiative to conserve the fort and residents should be brought to lower areas to reduce the burden. 
 
 In 2012, the then district collector   had convinced the resident to vacate the fort and settle down in plots allotted to them. Five families agreed to leave Sonar Fort and new plots were allotted to them. Previous district collectors - NL Meena, Vishwa Mohan Sharma had tried their best to relocate the resident, but could not succeed.
 
 Presently, encroachment is increasing day by day inside the fort and setting up of new buildings with seepage water getting into the foundation of the fort are creating many problems for this fort. Newly laid sewerage line was not successful as there were faults during lying due to which leakage has been making the fort hollow gradually.
 
 It was planned to shift around 300 families residing inside the fort and allocate them plot or house in a new colony.
 
 Sonar Fort councillor   Vyas says fort will not be vacated at any cost as feelings of locals are attached to it. This is the heritage of their forefathers and the fort is completely safe because of them. 
 
 There are some faults in sewerage line and if these are fixed, there won't be any issue on fort's safety.
 
 He said UIT Chairmen Dr. Jitendra Singh has also asked residents to vacate the fort and will provide plots in new colony against it, but they denied it completely.
 
 Arvind said government should make some guidelines and rules and solve problems of residents and the fort will become totally safe.
 
 Resident   and   said they will not vacate their homes inside fort at any cost. "Our feelings are attached to Fort. This is the heritage of our ancestors and the fort is completely safe because of us. Residents in the fort are repairing and maintaining their houses due to which it is safe. It will become shabby if they live it," they said.
 
