Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday rejected the application of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) for vacating stay on transferring 200 sq kms tiger bearing forest land. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Shahid Khan of Save Ecosystem and Tigers and Sustaining Environment (SEAT), a bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Atul Chandurkar also slammed the Maharashtra government for going against the recommendations of senior forest officials. Referring to a survey conducted by Chief Conservator of Forests (Nagpur) and Bhandara deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), the bench stated the senior forest officials were not in favour of handing over the land to FDCM as “it was an important corridor for migration of tigers.” The judges also observed “ministers sitting in air-conditioned rooms cannot assess the ground reality” and “land transfer should have been postponed or cancelled after concerned authorities had given an adverse opinion". The government, on June 19, 2014, had asked to hand over 200 sq kms tiger rich forest in Lendezari, Jamkandri and Nakadongri ranges of Bhandara to FDCM to compensate for the loss of its forest area for new sanctuaries which have been carved out as per Supreme Court orders. Following stiff opposition to the move from gram panchayats and wildlife conservationists, the area was not handed over to FDCM for last two years. Fresh move was initiated on November 9, 2016, when the government asked Bhandara DyCF to immediately transfer the said area to FDCM. TOI was the first to report on repercussions of transfer of the said area, which falls in Pench-Nagzira tiger corridor. There is recorded presence of tigers in these ranges. Earlier, a writ petition filed by Bhandara Zilla Jangal Kamgar Sahakari Sanstha Sangh, on which a status quo was granted, was clubbed with this PIL. Following HC’s stay on land transfer, FDCM had filed an application stating workers had already been hired for the said area and they would be rendered jobless. Dismissing its plea, the court held the decision of transferring the forest was wrong. The petitioners claimed that giving away forest to FDCM will spell doom as the corporation fells entire miscellaneous forest and plants teak. “This will also deprive locals of jobs and livelihood, and will also damage wildlife habitat,” the PIL stated. Akash Moon was the counsel for the petitioner.