CHENNAI: Team India opening batsman  's decision to pull out of the first three ODIs against Australia to be with his ailing wife has suddenly opened up a few options for India. With the team management not calling for a replacement, the door may open for  , who has been out of favour of late, either at the top of the order or in the middle.

 India, though, have a few options to play with.   can also be pushed up the order and in that case Rahane's fight could be with   for that one vacant batsman's slot in the middle. Rahane was extremely consistent in West Indies earlier this year scoring a century and three half-centuries and was man of the series, but in Sri Lanka, he only got one game. It has actually been the trend in Indian cricket for a while. While Rahane has got more games when India are playing away from home, back home, he has been on the bench.
 
 It probably had a lot to do with MS Dhoni's suggestion in Bangladesh in 2015 that Rahane struggles a bit in the middleovers to rotate the strike in subcontinent conditions against spinners. MSD had a point - Rahane's career strikerate after 79 ODIs is 78.35, which is much lower than the likes of   (85.34) or   (91.72). Pandey, too, has a strike-rate of 94.80 after 14 games, which is much higher than Rahane's.
 
 The only player whose strike rate is on the lower side is Rahul (80.78), but, even his strike rate is higher than Rahane's. Kohli, too, has a lot of faith in the Karnataka batsman.
 
 But Rahane can play at the top or in the middle-order as was evident in his impressive performance in the 2015 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. "He is one special player who can adapt to any situation and can play in any position. Going by the past, the Indian team seems to be looking at him as an opener in ODIs, but he can do well in the middle, which he proved in the 2015 World Cup in Australia," Pravin Amre, former India player and Rahane's coach, told TOI.
 
 Amre added that Rahane has worked hard on his limitedovers game in the last few days. "I think he needs to be given a specific role. With India set to play a lot of limited-overs cricket in the next few months, Rahane has been working on specific drills to suit his game for ODIs," the coach added.
 
 Even if Rahane doesn't get a nod in the first game in Chennai on Sunday, there is a distinct possibility that he will get his chance going ahead in the series. The Indian team, in fact, understands the importance of keeping Rahane in the mix, especially with a long away stint coming up post November. What also goes in his favour is he is an exceptional fielder in all positions.
 
 In that one-and-a-half year phase, when India will play in South Africa, England, New Zealand and Australia, leading up to the 2019 World Cup, Kohli will need the solidity that Rahane provides in the middleorder. But will the Mumbai player be given a chance to prove his ODI credentials at home, that's a question that can be answered only on Sunday.
 
 Meanwhile, Australia opening batsman  , who missed the practice match earlier with a calf injury, is a doubtful starter for the series opener after he aggravated his calf injury during a training session in Chennai on Thursday morning.
 
