Professors Angela Mathew and Susan Mathew, live on either sides of Panampilly Nagar, Fifth Crossroad and work in the same institution. For years, their conversations used to be restricted to 'hello, how are you?' when they used to meet at the car parking area.

 One day, when both of them met at the usual place, Susan and Angela coincidently asked each other, 'I am bored of driving alone, all the way. Since we come from the same place, why not share the same car?'
 
 Thus began an amazing camaraderie between them and the duo started travelling together to work. It's not just them but many of the working population of   are now opting for  .
 Kochi Times explores what motivates these Kochiites to embrace the trend which has taken over other metros.
 
 
 
 
  Susan says, 'The traffic sucks! And riding nearly 15 kilometres everyday manoeuvring the metro work and traffic blocks, makes it more miserable. When you carpool you can take a break from the daily grind of driving. '
 
  And that's not all, she adds, 'My only companions during traffic blocks were the voices of FM RJs. But now after Angela joined me, we get to catch up on the latest gossips and also share thoughts and experiences.'
 
  Now another colleague Siby Jose from Thevara joins them occasionally and their conversations have become more professional. 'We handle three different subjects in college and our commuting time has become knowledge upgrading sessions as each of us will have something to share on the trends happening in our respective fields. Also, we talk about our family, children and about tackling the generation gap,' she adds. 
 
 
 
 
 Doctor Seema George and her colleagues from a prominent dental college in Kothamangalam say that carpooling has made their lives less stressful. The Kakkanad resident, who is a big fan of carpooling, says, 'Though I enjoy driving, 't times it becomes stressful and I tend to fall asleep. But when there are four people in a car, anyone can take the driving seat and the rest can relax. Driving needs a lot of concentration, especially at peak hours. Now, I relax, read and even do some pending work while commuting to work.'
 
 
 
 Those who go home on weekends no longer have to worry about long queues and waitlisted tickets. Paul Varghese, a communication professional from Kozhikode, says, 'Six months ago, I was transferred to Kannur from Kozhikode. I was a bit annoyed as I hate weekend rush and commuting by public transport. That is when I happened to know that there are Whatsapp groups that share information on carpooling. Now I look forward to weekends, as I can be home without commuting hassles. I have also befriended a lot of people from my hometown whom I never knew earlier. Now, we have a group in which our family members are also included.'
 
 
 
 
 Advertising professional Aswathy Pillai often travels across cities for personal and professional reasons. At first she was a bit sceptical about sharing a car with strangers, but now she totally depends on it. 'Tonight I am travelling to Chennai from Bangalore via carpooling. In an year, I have made some very good friends and even travel partners during my trips. We often end up meeting similar people and the journey becomes a joyride. Once I got a very good companion who was also an ad professional and we are friends now,' she says.
 
 
 
 
 Fuel charges takes a big bite out of your budget, and the techies from Infopark, Kochi and Technopark, Trivandrum are saving some bucks by carpooling. 'In times of fluctuating fuel prices, carpooling is a welcome trend. For the past few years I have been travelling from Trivandrum to Thodupuzha and back every day ' nearly 100 kilometres. We take turns with our cars which also helps reduce the maintenance costs,' says Arun Rajeevan, marketing manager.
 
  Apart from the economy factor, carpooling has caught on because people are genuinely more concerned about environmental pollution than ever before. Kozhikode-based marketing professional Sudheendran Ravi says, 'A worldwide research conducted recently reveals that up to one-third of CO2 emissions are due to pollution from vehicles, and the majority of it is from personal transport. Every house in Kerala has at least a car and bike which are used for daily commute. But three seats of the car are simply wasted which is why we decided to pool people. Now my friends and I encourage travelling together which reduces carbon emission and also makes the air more breathable.' Inspired by them, many of the Kozhikode residents have started bike pooling as well.
 
 
