NEW DELHI: Five days after   associated with taxi-aggregating companies went on an indefinite strike, the Delhi government finally stepped in. Representatives of driver unions and the   met on Tuesday to resolve their issues, a government statement said.

 “Following directions from the transport minister, it was firmly conveyed to the companies to look into the problems faced by drivers, including the demand for a reasonable compensation with regard to the incurred cost of operation and other welfare measures,” a government official said.
 
 “We have been informed that a majority of drivers are not in favour of the strike, but some external anti-social elements are illegally preventing the app-based drivers from plying their vehicles,” the official said. The government statement added that transport minister Satyendar Jain has directed officials to inform Delhi Police about exact locations where violence had been reported against cab drivers.
 
 The meeting was called by state transport authority member Kailash Gehlot. While representatives of Rajdhani Tourist Drivers Union and managements of the two cab companies were present, Sarvodaya Drivers Association — the union which has championed the stir — claimed it wasn’t invited.
 
 On the fifth day of the strike, meanwhile, the situation on the ground continued to be tense. Commuters were a harried lot as most app-based cabs stayed off roads. Sarvodaya Driver Association members held a meeting with one of the cab companies. Giving their demands in writing, the association demanded that rates for mini-cabs be raised to Rs 14/km with a ride time of Rs 2/km. Also, they want the base fare to be raised to Rs 100 and night charges increased to Rs 16/km.
 
 “We met Ola officials and submitted a letter stating the demands. The strike will be called off only when these demands are met,” said Anwar Ali, a member of the association. The drivers have also sought an end to the Driver Denied Duty and Star-Rating systems.
 
 Even as the drivers stuck to their guns, auto-rickshaws made a killing, raising their rates by as much as Rs 100 a trip. “For the last four days, commuting has been a nightmare,” said Garima Sharma, a college student.
 
 
