NAGPUR: Many students from 30 schools and 12 colleges from the city participated in the ‘No honking’ and ‘Say no to plastic’ drive organized by   (RCN) on Monday.

 The topics regarding the drive were provided to the students 15 days back by RCN and the students were asked to prepare posters and slogans for the same. Out of the large number of received entries, 20 were shortlisted. The selected posters and slogans were installed throughout the city in the form of hoardings along with the name of the students and their respective institution as a part of the drive. 
 
 During the drive, about 300 students were present holding placards and distributing stickers at Mental hospital Square,   and Manewada Square with an aim to spread awareness among the citizens.
 
 The drive was inaugurated by mayor Nanda Jichkar at Bishop cotton square. Corporator Gargi Chopra also graced the programme at Liberty Square.
 
 “According to research, high sound levels due to traffic are causing health hazards like hearing impairment. Even usage of   causes a lot of trouble to the environment. Hence, spreading awareness regarding   and usage of plastic has become necessary to bring out changes in it,” said Rina Sinha, president, RCN, while speaking to TOI.
 
 “I am really glad that students took part in this drive in such huge numbers and contributed well,” she said.
 
 Expressing her views regarding the drive, Mrunalini Dasture, principal, South Point School (SPS), said, “Messages are spread more effectively when conveyed by the youngsters and hence engaging students in such drives can prove to be more useful. In addition to that, the students themselves inculcate awareness and knowledge regarding the topics of significance which is very important.”
 
 Schools and colleges such as St Ursula, Bishop Cotton, BVM, Centre Point, Modern School, Royal Gondwana School, SPS, Hislop College, NK Academy, Tuli Public School, Tuli College, St Micheals, Government Medical College and others actively participated in the drive.
 
 (Reporting by Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)
 
 
