LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party’s original thinktank, the man who wrote the party’s constitution, also became the architect of its second coming — and Akhilesh’s final elevation — on Sunday. 

  
  , often regarded as the go-to man for all important decisions — from picking tickets probables to making key organisational appointments and famously disallowing SP’s entry into the   — has solidly backed chief minister Akhilesh through the prolonged family feud that spilt out into public domain in September last year. 
 
 It began with Ram Gopal supporting Akhilesh’s decision to sack two ministers from his cabinet, and Deepak Singhal as UP chief secretary. Ram Gopal had then said that it was the prerogative of the CM to take these decisions and that no one could question the dismissals. The Rajya Sabha member who was 
  in the middle of a raging family feud had also squarely blamed party colleague Amar Singh for orchestrating the rift in the Yadav clan. 
 
 For his loyalty to Akhilesh, Ram Gopal was sacked thrice in the past three months, even taking the blame for “working as part of a conspiracy in collusion with Bharatiya Janata Party to weaken SP”, a charge levelled against him by Shivpal Yadav. But if Mulayam is famous for his U-turns, Ram Gopal was important for his unwavering stand; not only in his support of Akhilesh, but also in planning meticulously the path that would lead Akhilesh to unseating Mulayam, and to being anointed as national president of  . 
 
 The January 1 convention, as well as the events leading up to it, were planned to perfection. In the months preceding the ‘Grand Sunday’, Ram Gopal spent months meeting legal experts and the   to orchestrate the background preparations Akhilesh would need in case a split was necessitated. Though Mulayam may call the January 1 convention unconstitutional, the party constitution — which Ram Gopal wrote and knows like the back of his hand — allows the general secretary to convene such a session if more than 40% of the party’s elected representatives demand it. 
 
 Wading through the legalese may be difficult for most, but Ram Gopal also managed the toughest element of Sunday’s developments — getting SP vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda to preside over the special convention. Another clause in the   mandates the presence of the vice-president in the absence of the president. 
 
 Ram Gopal’s master stroke lay in this: the SP constitution does not lay down a procedure for impeaching its  . With the backing of brute numbers, Ram Gopal has ultimately used the one gap he left out, to Akhilesh’s and his advantage.
 
