HYDERABAD: The seventh edition of the Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF 2017) began in the city on Friday with a host of authors, artistes and literature enthusiasts converging at the expansive   (HPS) campus in Begumpet.

 Participants from India and abroad came to participate for a day packed with activities. Apart from a series of stage talks on issues ranging from politics, cinema and writing, the venue was also peppered with ' ' that saw performers enthrall visitors with street plays,  . A   ­ that opened the festival with their act ­ was a major hit.
  
  
 
 Delivering the keynote address, chief guest and renowned poet Ashok Vajpeyi, admitted to being a `festival trotter' and said how many of them had become 'disappointing' over the years. HLF, though, isn't part of that list thankfully , he added. As he wished the event a success and called for closer collaboration with this year's guest nation, Philippines, Vajpeyi went on to highlight the many issues plaguing the Indian society today ­ intolerance, parochialism and religious violence to name a few.
 
 It is in protest against this growing intolerance that the poet had returned his Sahitya Akademi award in 2015. Several followed suit.
 
 “Sadly , despite what is happening, the state is watching mutely,“ Vajpeyi said lamenting how the liberal democratic spirit was under as sault the world over. India might be growing economically, but “we are culturally and socially regressive“, he stressed, ruing the “destruction of higher education“ in the country . In the midst of it all, the acclaimed poet said that literature was the only ray of optimism. “It alone has kept the concept of human conscience alive,“ Vajpeyi reiterated. It is, therefore, only appropriate for life to celebrate literature once in a while, he said.
 
 Day 1saw other equally stimulating sessions on keeping literature alive, writing against all odds and the process of penning biographies. A 'chat' between authors Kingshuk Nag and Sachidananda Mohanty, for instance, brought to fore two interesting and prominent lives that of Netaji and prolific Odia writer, Sarala Devi. A panel comprising Alan Johnson, Shanta Acha rya and others discussed writings on India. Ma Teresita C Daza, leading a contingent from Philippines, dwelled on the influence of Sanskrit on their language and hailed the HLF as a great platform for exchange of ideas and literary sensibilities between the two countries.
 
