AHMEDABAD: A massive 52,546 acres of land donated under   is yet to be distributed among beneficiaries including poor peasants, landless tribal and dalits in the state. Now after 65 years of slumber, the   movement is once again gaining momentum. Thanks to a high court direction, the state government has been forced to form a seven-member committee to ensure that this undistributed land goes to its rightful owners. The committee is being headed by the chief secretary.

 In Gujarat, donations of 1,03,530 acres of land were made till the early 1960s to the Bhoodan committee of the   , but most of these records have not survived. Earlier, there were offices of the committee in every district of the state. But today, just the offices in Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Patan, Narmada, Mehsana and Gandhinagar are maintained, and even these have few or no records. A major part of the records it is said is in the ancestral place of   who headed the Bhoodan activity in the state. 
 
 Ironically, this massive chunk of undistributed land has Akhil Bharat Sarvodaya Mandal as its owner, an institution formed on Gandhian ideals and which had the moral responsibility of distributing this land. Today, a large part of this donated land, which lay idle for decades, either lies encroached, in some cases some land was sold illegally to housing societies in cities like Ahmedabad and some land parcels are in government or industry possessions.
 
 The new committee will consists of the chief secretary, additional chief secretary labour, principal secretary revenue, secretary legal department, chief town planner, member of Akhil Bharat Sarvodaya Mandal, district collector, district planning officer and member of district legal aid cell. The committee will formulate a law for ensuring that distribution of land gets legal sanctity and monitors the process.
 
 Back in 1952, there existed a circular of the Bombay Presidency recognizing, as well as authorizing the Bhoodan committee in Gujarat region to accept land donations and facilitate land title transfers. There was also the   Bhoodan Act for Saurashtra region. But things changed after Gujarat was formed in 1960.
 
