How will you grow if you don’t break boundaries?’ It’s that one question that continued to motivate   as she switched from one role to another, as actor, model, poet, writer, designer, producer and director. And now, she’s “thrilled to bits” about her latest avatar —that of a reality dance show judge. Renu, who made her small screen debut on   with Star Maa’s  , says, “I have always been an impulsive person; and you can say this (foray into TV) was one of those impulsive decisions. But, the television industry is big in its own right, so when I was first approached by the channel, I was intrigued. I felt it would be an adventure. I was always curious about television. I used to wonder how they make all the shows and whether they were genuine or orchestrated. It’s a challenge really, and I decided to take it up. The 26-episode format in which real-life couples will participate, makes it so much fun! essentially, it’s not just about the dance but an expression of one’s overall personality and emotions reflected through dance.”
Admittedly, she was nervous on day one of the shoot. “I was scared, to be honest. Unlike in cinema, there were multiple cameras here. There was this huge set erected at   and the ambience was dazzling, with bright neon lights and a lavishly decorated stage. For so many years now, I’ve been behind the camera, so it was a bit unnerving to get back to being directed again. Even when the dance sequence on stage was being filmed, there were cameras capturing my expressions. In cinema, it doesn’t happen that way. There, a shot would last for like two minutes at the most whereas here, it was kind of endless. You shoot for 12 hours at a stretch and you’re on camera every single minute of those 12 hours!”
 Her new colleagues helped her ease in a bit, says Renu, adding, “I must thank   (Co-Judge),   (host of the show) and the production and direction team. They made me feel so comfortable and gave me tips on how to go about it all. They were really sweet and helped me overcome the initial hiccups.”
 The jitters on the sets apart, coming back to Hyderabad itself to film the show was a huge emotional challenge for her. “I’m returning to a place which I called ‘home’ just seven years ago, you see. So, it was not an easy adjustment at all. But challenging as it is, it’s also been a really unique experience for me so far. And that’s the whole point, I think. The seasons are ever changing; one should be like a river, flowing no matter what....” Renu trails off, philosophically.
 For now, the Badri girl has two life goals: “The first one is to complete my book of poems and the second is to complete a script which I’ve been working on. Everyone goes through ups and downs in life. In my case, my writing has worked as the balm for all the bruises I’ve sustained in the course of life. It’s served as a catharsis for me. I consider myself to be an honest person, and that’s what is reflected in my writing,” says Renu.
 Her life, with all its dramatic twists and turns, her very filmy love story and wedding to  , and later, a stormy marriage, will make for a gripping memoir for sure. “Oh no! Memoir is not my thing. I’ve always been a very private person, so putting my life down in print for the world to read and dissect is not something I’d like to do. If you have observed, I did not even speak to anyone until three years after my divorce. Yes, I do write about sorrow, pain, happiness etc., because these are emotions I’ve experienced. But I make poetry out of them. And that’s something I’d like to see in the form of a book. As for the script, it’s my baby. once I’m done with it, I’ll decide on which language to make it in,” she says, signing off.
 
