Mumbai: Blackstone Group, the world’s largest   firm, is likely to acquire the assets of   ( ), founded by   chairman Anand Jain, also a close friend of   boss  . Blackstone is making an offer to all the unit holders of the $150-million, or nearly Rs 1,000-crore, fund and will progress with the deal upon receiving approval from 51% of them, people with direct knowledge of the matter said. 

 UIOF, which has multi-city investments in large integrated townships, is 60% held by high net worth investors (HNWI), while Anand Jain and leading domestic financial institutions own remaining 40%. Blackstone, arguably the most influential   investor globally, is on acquisition mode at a time when investor sentiment over large residential projects has been lukewarm. In the past, Blackstone stepped up the momentum in India’s commercial real estate, and office space in particular, when it attracted little investor attention.
 
 Today, Blackstone is the largest office landlord in the country, a rent-yielding market segment where global investors have rushed into in recent years. 
 
 In 2006, Jain floated UIOF and raised about Rs 2,400 crore from domestic investors, making it probably the largest pool of domestic money that went into the sector in the last decade. It picked up significant, and sometimes controlling shares, in large residential townships across Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Pune, besides smaller cities like Visakhapatnam, Nashik and Nagpur. UIOF, which invested into long gestation projects, harvested some of the investments, but saw poor market sentiments delaying the full development potential. Meanwhile, the fund completed its life cycle and had to return capital to the investors.
 
 Blackstone will now take up the development and completion of these projects over the next 4-5 years. The acquisition would allow some UIOF unit holders, who have the staying power, to remain co-invested in the projects. “The fund was launched during the boom years when big was beautiful in real estate. The prolonged market downturn changed the dynamics for large township projects. The entry of the world’s top investor is a vote of confidence in the original thesis and provides exit to investors who wanted to be bought out,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier in the report. When contacted, Blackstone and UIOF declined to comment. 
 
 The move by Blackstone carries the potential to trigger the secondaries market for real estate investments that are stuck. In private equity parlance, secondaries refer to buying and selling of existing investor commitments to new investment funds. Several other fund managers like IL&FS are expected to tap the secondaries market to liquidate early realty investments. 
 
 Secondaries are common in global private equity circles, but have been rare in India. Blackstone and Apollo Global Management acquired the worldwide real estate funds of Merrill Lynch and Citigroup, including those in India, after the financial crisis in 2008. But India-specific secondaries have been few with venture capital firms DFJ, Canaan Partners and Kleiner Perkins offloading there local investments as part of their exit from the country.
 
 
