LUCKNOW:   Narendra Modi’s three-day Israel visit has resulted in major collaborations for Uttar Pradesh in the field of water management and river cleaning. The   ambassador to Israel signed and agreement on behalf of UP Jal Nigam with the Israeli government in this regard during the PM’s trip.

 Giving the information , UP Jal Nigam chairman GB Patnaik said that the pact would definitely assist UP in effective management of potable water and cleaning of rivers, especially the Ganga, besides irrigation. The agreement between is being seen as an outcome of a crucial meeting between chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi and Israeli ambassador Daniel Carmon in Lucknow on May 17. Yogi was the first UP CM to have met an Israeli diplomat. 
 
 Patnaik was scheduled to go to Israel along with chief secretary Rajive Kumar, but at the last moment the government of India decided that the Indian envoy in Israel would ink the agreements and, if required, the two senior officers would   Israel later.
 
 Patnaik said that the details of the modalities of the agreements about how would Israel would transfer its technology for cleaning the Ganga and assist the Jal Nigam in providing safe drinking water to all would be declared soon. He said that the MoU was a revolutionary step as Israel is known all over the world for having developed best technology for water recycling and its use in agriculture and horticulture purposes.
 
 “Jal Nigam was confident of improving the water management for drinking purposes and cleaning of Ganga which would obviously involve cleaning of the adjoining rivers falling into the Ganga and carrying polluted water,” he said.
 
 It’s not the first time that UP is seeking Israeli expertise in water management. Former irrigation minister Shivpal Yadav and his principal secretary Deepak Singhal had visited Israel and replicated its water management technology in the department. Although the ruling Samajwadi Party later on played down the visit to avoid any backlash from the Muslim community.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Singhal said that the command centre of the UP irrigation department developed three years back with the Israeli assistance is first of its kind in the country and accounts for water of every river and canals of the state. “It helps maintain a vigil on the flood situation in the state,” he said. That time, there was no official agreement though the Israeli concept of water management for irrigation was replicated.
 
 
