Mumbai: In a part interim relief for a student with   (LD) seeking medical admission under the quota for person with disabilities, the Bombay high court has directed the central and state authorities to verify his documents under the  . The petitioner, 18-year-old Raj Shah from Ghatkopar, found himself rendered ineligible under rules.

 The student challenged the Medical Council of India ( ) regulations as being unreasonable, discriminatory and unconstitutional. The regulations barred students certified as LD from a three percent reservation it had set for ‘students with disability’ for admissions to health science courses, including MBBS and BDS.
 
 A bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Riyaz Chagla has sought replies from medical education authorities to the petition and posted it for further hearing after a week.
 
 Shah had appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test ( ) in May 2017. In 2011, he was diagnosed with LD. There is no such bar for students seeking admission to engineering courses and even admission to Indian Institute of Technology (IITs) or law courses. The plea is also to direct MCI to increase the disabled quota from three percent to five as mandated by law.
 
 The important questions raised were “whether a student suffering from learning disabilities like dyslexia, dyscalculia and dysgraphia can be eligible to secure admission to MBBS under the Physically Handicapped Category’’ and whether it was open for the Centre and state to “ignore mandatory provisions of the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016 and refuse them admission under the PH category.”
 
 “A learning disability is not a disease nor an illness,’’ said his petition and yet, the MCI rules made students with LD ineligible under the PH category for admission to medical colleges. He was thus given no rank under the category and no certificate of disability as prescribed in admission brochures.
 
 Given the urgency with the last date for online preference being July 11, the lawyer argued for relief before the HC on Wednesday.
 
