Ahmedabad: Late on Saturday night, city crime branch rescued Jaideep Patel and Suchit Shah, a coal trader, from the clutches of their kidnappers. Seven persons, including estate agents and other businessmen were arrested for torturing, kidnapping and holding Patel and Shah in illegal confinement. “However we also booked Jaideep Patel for illegal exchange of old currency with the new ones,” said a crime branch official.

 Apparently, Patel and Shah had promised three of the seven accused of exchanging demonetized currency for new notes, and taken Rs 35 lakh in old notes from them, only to report that the money had been robbed. In a fit of rage, the businessmen had confined Patel and Shah in the office of JB Enterprise on CG Road to recover their money. Meanwhile, on receiving threat calls, Patel’s wife went to city police commissioner, A K Singh, on Saturday. 
 
 “Both the victims were rescued on Saturday night and the accused arrested. Four of them were involved in torturing the victims,” said a crime branch official.
 
 
 Interestingly, Patel’s wife, Mittal has said that she was carrying total Rs 47 lakh, including Rs 12 lakh of her husband, in demonetized currency when two persons, posing as policemen, had approached her and robbed the money near RTO Circle on Friday. According to crime branch officials, Pankaj Soni, resident of Rudra Square on Judges Bungalow Road and Umesh Patel of Nirnaynagar, both reputed real estate agents, and Jignesh Pandya, a trader in mobile phone accessories, had respectively given Rs 20 lakh, Rs 10 lakh and Rs 5 lakh in old currency to Suchit Shah to get new currency after paying a commission. Shah had roped in Jaideep Patel, about a week ago, for the operation.
 
 “According to Jaideep, he was readying to get his own old notes exchanged for new currency from one Bharat Vyas of Bhimjipura in Vadaj and Shrujal Shah of Ghodasar,” said a crime branch official.
 
 “On Friday, Jaideep’s wife Mittal left her house in Ranip for Bhimjipura with total of Rs 47 lakh in a bag on her scooter. Mittal was asked to do the job as she being a woman could avoid suspicion of cops while transporting the money,” said the crime branch official. But, according to Mittal’s account, she was intercepted by two persons posing as policemen, said a crime branch official.
 
  “The two then took the bag containing cash from her and disappeared after asking Mittal to follow them to the nearby police station,” he added.
 
 When Pandya, Soni and Umesh Patel, came to know about the incident they summoned Jaideep and Shah to Pandya’s office on CG Road. Vinod Patel of Shilaj, Mukesh Mehta of Ghatlodia, Pallav Shah of Vadaj and Prafull Pandey of Vasna were also present there.
 
 “The accused then called up Jaideep’s wife, Mittal, and threatened that they would kill her husband if the money was not returned. Mittal then approached the city police chief. We immediately swung into action and based on the call location raided the office located on CG Road and rescued the victims,” said a crime branch official. 
 
 Second incident in which cops allegedly extorted cash in old currency
 
 Even as Jaideep’s wife claims that the two persons, who escaped with the bag containing cash looked like policemen – city crime branch is not ruling out the possibility of real policemen being involved. It is worthy to note that in an incident, which went unreported, two policemen had similarly extorted Rs 60 lakh from a businessman on Riverfront Road, just after demonetization had been announced. The two policemen were believed to be posted at a police station in eastern Ahmedabad. 
 
 
