NEW DELHI: In its third and final blueprint ahead of the  ,   on Wednesday outlined steps it intends to take to streamline primary health and education. The document was released by Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Maken, in presence of former union ministers Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid. 

 The most striking aspect of the blueprint was the party’s intention to hand over six multi-speciality hospitals to Delhi government. Maken said north corporation spent about Rs 652 crore annually on maintenance of these hospitals. 
 
 “Municipalities are not supposed to run multi-speciality hospitals; instead, they should focus on colony-level public healthcare,” he said. 
 
 According to corporation data, Khurshid said, SDMC had allocated Rs 2.5 crore in 2016-17 for purchasing medicines and equipment for its ayurvedic dispensaries. Of this, only Rs 1.25 lakh was spent. “In 2016-17, north corporation allocated Rs 9.5 crore under the Ayush department; out of this, only Rs 3 crore was utilised,” he said. “We have to ensure that funds allocated for providing health services are utilised properly and the allocation should be as per requirement,” he added.
 
 Khurshid also promised to devise a comprehensive plan for fighting vector-borne diseases.
 
 Tharoor touched upon the issue of dropouts from corporation schools. He said: “In the past two years, nearly 50,000 students dropped out from corporation schools. The figure is alarming and we need to ensure that children from poor sections of the society are brought into the system.”
 
 Tharoor said a section of the society was still denied the basic right of education. “We propose to bring in private players and NGOs to enhance the quality of education in primary schools. Further, we need to work on the student-teacher ratio per classroom.” 
 
 The party promised to give Rs 1,000 to each student studying in municipal schools. “The money will be deposited in their bank account and, only if the student completes his/her 12th will they be allowed to use the money,” said Tharoor. The former union minister said within a week of winning the elections, his party would constitute a committee to look into the condition of primary schools.
 
 The Congress manifesto would include three blueprints — on fiscal management, sanitation and primary health and education — along with a detailed plan on resettlement colonies, unauthorised colonies and slum clusters. While the party was yet to declare its list of candidates, Maken said workers were playing a major role in their selection and a list would be announced shortly.
 
 
