NEW DELHI: Days after a nursing officer of AIIMS died following complications during child birth, the medical institute is likely to act against the doctors overseeing her delivery. 

 Rajbir Kaur, 28, also lost her child allegedly due to medical negligence. Sources said a high-level committee constituted to look into allegations of medical negligence by Kaur’s family submitted a preliminary report on February 17. “It has found certain procedural failure in the child delivery process,” said a source.
 
 V Srinivas, deputy director (administration) of AIIMS, confirmed that a preliminary inquiry report had been submitted but refused to divulge its details. “The AIIMS director has held two rounds of meeting on Monday to decide action to be taken on the basis of the report. A formal announcement will be made on Tuesday,” Srinivas said. 
 
 TOI spoke to Manish Behl, Kaur’s husband, who claimed AIIMS officials had called him to discuss compensation. “They promised to give me Rs 10 lakh. But I don’t want that money. I want justice for my stillborn child and wife who died in a low-risk pregnancy,” he said. Behl, who has been alleging that he hasn’t been given either the inquiry committee’s report or a copy of the postmortem report, has been called by AIIMS administration for a meeting with top officials on Tuesday. He has alleged that Kaur was undergoing regular check-ups as advised by her gynaecologist during her pregnancy period and finally admitted for a normal delivery on January 16. 
 
 “Everything was normal when she was admitted to the labour room around 12 noon. But during induction, around 7pm, her water bag ruptured. After 11 hours, around 6am on January 17, I was asked to give consent for caesarean section because foetal heart beat was found to be slow. I signed only to be told later that the child was stillborn and my wife had turned critical. She died on February 4,” Behl added.
 
 He further alleged that the anaesthetist arrived too late and there was delay in conducting caesarean section. Sources said the inquiry committee questioned all doctors involved in the delivery. Three senior residents from obstetrics and gynaecology department and two junior residents from anaesthesia department were suspended pending inquiry on February 5, a day after Kaur was declared dead.
 
 However, the suspension was revoked later following protests from resident doctors. “I do not know details of the inquiry committee or the action planned. But we will respect the committee’s decision in the matter,” Dr Vijay Gurjar, president of AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA), said. 
 
 He was one of the observers selected by the AIIMS administration from the resident doctors’ side to ensure a fair inquiry in the case. A representative from the AIIMS’ nursing union also acted as an observer to the inquiry proceedings, said sources.
 
