NEW DELHI: President   on Tuesday released a sophisticated and affordable hand-held testing device which allows domestic users to easily identify adulterants in milk. 

 Developed by the public sector research body, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ( ), the device - called Ksheer Tester - can measure contaminants such as urea, salt, detergent, soap, soda, boric acid and hydrogen peroxide in milk through a single button operation. 
 
 The user friendly device, costing less than Rs 5000, can take less than 60 seconds of measurement time to show the result. 
 
 This along with other game-changing technology - waterless chrome tanning technology for processing raw hides and skins - was released by Kovind on the occasion of the CSIR foundation day which also marked conclusion of its platinum jubilee year.
 
 Addressing the gathering of scientists from across the country, the President later appealed them not to let the excitement of technology and newer and newer products divert their attention from basic science research as the research remains “fundamentally important”. 
 
 Noting that the country’s ambitious national programmes - such as Start-up India, Make in India, Digital India, Swachh Bharat, Namami Gange and the Smart Cities Mission - cannot be successful without scientists and technology incubators, Kovind said, “The true test of scientific research lies in its ability to help our society leap frog social sector gaps, whether in health and hygiene, sanitation, education or agriculture and make us a middle-income country in one human lifetime”.
 
 In this context, the President lauded efforts of the CSIR and referred to the two new technologies which were released by him. “I am pleased to note the widespread social benefits of the two CSIR technologies that are being dedicated to the nation today”, said Kovind.
 
 The ‘waterless chrome tanning technology’ is a first of its kind technology to reduce chromium pollution load in wastewater released by tanneries. The technology will be deployed at 2000 tanneries across the country.
 
 The hand-held milk testing device (Ksheer Tester) has, on the other hand, system capabilities comparable to those developed earlier by the CSIR for dairy cooperatives. Known as ‘Ksheer Scanner’, the device - which is a costlier version - has already been successfully deployed at diaries across Goa, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and  .
 
 The President on the occasion also gave away technology awards to scientists of different CSIR laboratories and selected school children for their innovation. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Kovind, however, rued the “distressingly small” participation of women in science in the country and said the scientific achievements would always be “less than perfect and less than desirable” if this disparity is not addressed.
 
 Appealing scientific community to take “accelerated steps” to promote participation of girl students and women in science and technology, the President said, “I must point out here that none of our developmental goals has any meaning without gender parity and without equal opportunities for our daughters and girl-children”. 
 
 He said, “In the past seven decades, CSIR as a body and India as a society have made enormous progress. Yet, the participation of women in science in our country is distressingly small. Less than two of every 10 scientific researchers in India are women. Of those who join the   each year, just about 10% are women”.
 
 The scientists who received awards from the President include Sakya Singha Sen of CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune; Prosenjit Das of CSIR-Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur; Sathravada Balaji of CSIR-Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute, Kolkata; Amit Laddi of CSIR-Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, Chandigarh and   of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
 
 The school children who received the CSIR innovation award include   and Pavan Shankar Ingale of Sainik School Satara, Maharashtra; A   of NSN Matriculation Higher Senior Secondary School, Nehru Nagar, Chennai; Tanmayi Appasaheb Kokare and Tanishka Appasaheb Kokare (both girl children) of MES Waghire High School, Saswad and S Mukkani of Panchayat Union Middle School, Narthangudi, Valangaiman Tiruvarur, Tamil Nadu. 
 
