NAGPUR: Outgoing field director of   (MTR) DK Tyagi on Tuesday claimed that   poaching has been brought to zero during his three-year tenure, which seems to be a far-fetched claim. 

 Tyagi, who has been promoted as additional PCCF (APCCF), Pune, said strengthening protection and conservation practices has resulted in bringing poaching of tiger or other wildlife to almost zero.
 
 “Moreover, cases of cattle kills, man-animal conflict and crop damage have reduced to negligible,” he added.
 
 However, those working in the field say Tyagi’s claim is not fully true as Melghat and its buffer still continue to be on the radar of tiger poachers who are still at large.
 
 “Though organized gangs of poachers from   (MP) may be at bay due to arrests of some gang members by Melghat officials and subsequent convictions by courts, tigers have been targeted intermittently by locals too,” said wildlife conservationists.
 
 On May 22 and 27, last a male and a female tiger were poisoned to death in Vairat but the deaths were ostensibly shown as natural ones. How can two tigers die of dehydration? Last week a leopard skin and body parts have been seized. On January 24, a sloth bear was electrocuted and its paws were chopped near Melghat.
 
 Tyagi took over after Dhakna tiger poaching case on March 4, 2013 and successfully completed the tenure by executing innovative schemes in the reserve, spread in 2,768 sqkm of hilly terrain area.
 
 Tyagi said he gave top priority to protection by mobilizing field staff, Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF), lower staff and sought cooperation from NGOs and villagers in and around the reserve. Latest figures show that wildlife crime has been reduced by 50% after commissioning of STPF.
 
 “We tried our best to curb poaching by including Pardhi community members from Sinbandh in conservation activities by providing them benefits under schemes and employing youths in patrolling,” he said.
 
 Tyagi says one of the major reasons why poaching reduced was arrest of 13 accused in Dhakna tiger poaching case. Nine accused have been convicted by Achalpur court to undergo 5-7 years imprisonment and fine of Rs50,000. The court decision has created fear among others to refrain from poaching. 
 
 Tyagi said another reason was creation of cyber cell developed by   and Parikshit Dambhare which helped in nabbing poachers on the basis of call detail records (CDRs) and forensic and circumstantial evidences.
 
 Recalling his achievements, Tyagi said during his tenure 6 villages were relocated where now grasslands and meadows have come up. “A number of herbivores can be seen in these meadows,” he added.
 
