LONDON: It appears fairytales are not for tennis, at least not for  . The 27-year-old, returning from a horrific knife attack that very nearly ended her career, entered   as the favourite, courtesy her heroic triumph in   last month. When the Czech exited late on Wednesday, falling in three sets 3-6, 6-1, 2-6 to American  , she was understandably more sad than shocked.

 The 11th seed, a two-time champion here, said she was feeling the absence of the six months she was forced to spend away from the game.
 
 "My body didn't do the best, but I was trying, I fight," she said of the 104-minute struggle in the second round. "I could not breathe and was feeling a bit sick as well. I felt okay in the warm-up and in the beginning of the match, but as the match got longer and longer I felt sick and tired. I couldn't move, I was so slow. I felt like an animal, a very slow animal."
 
 Kvitova, who had 50 unforced errors to Brengle's 16, said practising was one and getting into the routine of match-play was quite another.
 
 "I didn't really feel as the favourite of the tournament, I didn't think about the title," the Czech said of her mind-set coming into the tournament. "In Birmingham, it was a fairytale may be, but I still have to work hard. I need to play more matches. I need to practice a lot. There are a few things what I have to improve on to play at a good level as before."
 
 Kvitova, a tower of power, lethal off the ground at her best, but nowhere near that in the second round, was equally relieved to get her comeback out of the way.
 
 "It was a fairytale kind of, but on the other hand it was very tough. I'm glad it's over actually," she said. "I feel empty right now. My body is not great, but mentally I'm glad that it's over. I need to look forward, how everything will be, focusing on the next tournaments. I know I can play on all surfaces. I have time to get prepared for everything that will be coming next."
 
 Kvitova was originally scheduled to return to the Tour next January, but she targeted Wimbledon almost as soon as she picked up a racket. "I love playing tennis, I need to do this. I hope this will make me stronger again, to work hard again," she said. "It was a kind of difficult six months. It took a lot of energy and emotionally was tough. But now I should practice as I did before. Still probably have an eye on the hand, but otherwise I think it's getting better."
 
