PUNE: For   and surrounding areas, January 15 offers one last opportunity to experience  , an exciting combination of   on a  .

 To be held on Sunday morning, between 6.30 am and 9.30 am, the event will be conducted on   between DP Road junction and Rajkamal Departmental Store. The event is an attempt to popularise the concept of non-motorized transport and community engagement through over a dozen activities suitable for people of all age groups.
 
 While Zumba and dance workouts will allow participants to work up a sweat while grooving to popular songs, a fitness arena set up by Urbounce will allow health enthusiasts to test their agility and flexibility. Those looking to explore the venue can do so on their own skates or cycles available rent-free, against identity proof, at the venue.
 
 Dedicated corners for street soccer and badminton will allow sporting enthusiasts to relive their childhood memories or try out the sport anew with friends and family. A meditation corner will be ideal for those, who wish to reconnect with their inner selves, while a VJ Live stage will provide a platform to musical talents to exhibit their vocal prowess or skill with musical instruments.
 
 There will be enough opportunities for families to also try out games together at a dedicated Game Zone, while children can try their hands at Chalk Art or at games specially organised for them in the Kids Zone. Participants can also get a feel of camping and adventure-centric activities that will be conducted at the venue by Pugmarks. At another corner, participants can learn ways of converting trash into meaningful toys.
 
 A dedicated photo booth at the venue is another must-visit, especially for those looking to preserve their memories of the event. The booth will have fun and quirky accessories.
 
 Happy Streets is organised by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pune Municipal Corporation. The event is powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers. After January 15, it is scheduled to move on to Pimple Saudagar and thereon to Baner over the next six weeks. 
 
