Vadodara: M S University – Gujarat’s only English medium university - has failed to even maintain its 76th position in the overall ranking of the varsities of the country done by the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). 

 Last year, when MHRD had released its National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) report – the first-of-its kind ranking of institutes done in the country – MSU was ranked at 76th position after which it had earned lot of brickbats. On Monday, MSU’s name did not figure in the list of top 100 institutes released by the centre. Instead, it was ranked between 151 to 200, the ban which displays the list of participating institutes in alphabetical order.
 
 NIRF’s official website shows a list of 724 institutes which had participated in the India Rankings 2017 survey.
 
 The only three Gujarat based institutes which have found their names in the overall top 100 ranking of universities include IIM-A that has been ranked 17, Anand Agricultural University, which has been ranked at 62th position and the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar which has been ranked at 78th position. For MSU officials, who are facing criticism since last year for the sliding image of the varsity, the only breather has come in form of 76th rank that its Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) has earned in the list of top 100 engineering institutes. 
 
 FTE has earned a score of 38.81 with 76th rank. Yet, its ranking is much below the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar which has been ranked at 30th position, the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology which has been ranked at 50th position and Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology which has been ranked at 70th position. 
 
 Ironically, MSU’s ranking has slided even as the university officials claim that they had put in extra efforts before the 2017 MHRD survey. 
 
 Last year, the university officials had argued that since they sent data of only 523 permanent teachers and not temporary and contractual teachers, the resultant skewed faculty-student ratio had resulted in the dismal ranking. But this time, sources suggest that the university had not only sent data of all the 1,120 teachers including permanent, contractual and temporary staffers, it had also held a series of meetings with faculties to improve its ranking. 
 
 MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas told TOI that the university will study the methodology adopted for the ranking. “We had put in all our efforts. But ours is a large university which runs both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes for thousands of students. Smaller institutes have got an edge. We take the report positively and will put in extra efforts,” he said, adding that he can comment further only after proper analysis of the report. 
 
 
