PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body’s standing committee has approved a Rs 90-crore project to make   in Nigdi signal-free.

 “Civic officials gave a presentation of the project during the meeting and answered the members’ queries. The officials have been instructed to ensure that the project should not mar the beauty of Bhakti Shakti sculpture,” Seema Savale, chairperson of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s ( ) standing committee, said on Wednesday.
 
 The Bhakti Shakti sculpture comprises statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Sant Tukaram Maharaj. “People travelling by buses will be able to see these sculptures as they pass through the Chowk,” she said. 
 
 NCP corporator and committee member   said, “This is the first project in the state where there is a rotary flyover and grade separator at the same Chowk. Bhakti Shakti Chowk is an important chowk in the city as the 45m wide Spine Road crosses the 61m wide Pune-Mumbai highway.” 
 
  (Kiwale) BRTS road starts from this busy chowk. Besides, the Bhakti Shakti sculpture, Annabhau Sathe memorial, PMPML bus depots and the BRTS terminus are located along the Chowk. “There was always a need for a flyover and grade separator to bring an end to the traffic snarls at the Chowk,” Misal said.
 
 Vijay Bhojane, spokesperson of the BRTS’ (PCMC) cell, said, “The total estimate cost of the project was Rs 103 crore, along with am additional expenditure of around Rs 18 crore for shifting of utility lines shifting and construction of service road. The lowest contractor had bid Rs 72.40 crore for the project. It was 25.30% below the estimated cost. So the lowest bid for the entire project was of Rs 90.53 crore, which the standing committee has approved.”
 
 Members of the earlier standing committee, Narayan Bahirwade and then chairman Dabbu Aswani, had tried their best to convince the civic administration to complete the tender process quickly and send the proposal to the panel for approval. But the proposal did not reach the committee for approval before the election code of conduct for the February 2017 municipal elections came into force in December 2016.
 
