PUNE: The   in   dipped by almost a degree on Saturday, but Puneites continued to feel as hot as they felt on Friday when the day temperature peaked to a scorching 41.7 degrees C. Though the   clocked 39.7 degrees C on the first day of the weekend, it felt almost like 46 degrees C outside, according to a private forecaster’s reading on Pune’s weather.

 However, there appears to be no respite in sight as hot days may continue to linger for some time.   ( ) has predicted the day temperature will remain close to 40 degrees C on all days till May 12, except May 10, when mercury may dip by a degree to 39 degrees C.
 
 In addition, night temperature rose by another degree on Saturday to 25.3 degrees C, around 3.4 degrees C above normal. However, nights may become a tad cooler in a day or two, as minimum temperature is expected to dip from May 8.
 
 The met department also does not foresee any possibility of rain in Pune till May 12, though thundersqualls have been predicted at isolated places over south   and Marathwada and thunderstorms at isolated places over Vidarbha on May 7.
 
 “The temperatures are going up in north Madhya Maharashtra, including Pune, because the region is currently under the influence of northwesterly winds, which are land winds and are hotter than winds that blow from the ocean,” said an official from IMD.
 
 City-based experts, meanwhile, feel that the increasing   quotient in the city may have something to do with expansion of urban areas. Roads and concrete replacing tree cover and open spaces may have turned Pune into a ‘heat island’, they said.
 
 Sujit Patwardhan, founder of the nongovernmental organisation Parisar, said, “Temperature under the shade of a tree tends to be two to four degrees less than the actual temperature. Green tree cover at a place cools the nearby environs. Over the years, the city has had much of its green cover replaced by cement roads, which retain more heat. With natural assets under attack from all sides, this is but an obvious outcome.”
 
 Omkar Parishwad, assistant professor, College of Engineering, Pune, who has been researching on the heat island phenomenon, said, “Urban Heat Islands (UHIs) develop as heat is emitted from a range of built-up surfaces under favourable meteorological conditions. The use of heat-absorbing construction materials like stone, metal, concrete in building of roads, pavements, footpaths, parking lots and terraces in urban areas and the corresponding reduction of natural vegetation and water bodies result in higher temperature in urban areas.”
 
