Thiruvananthapuram: As post-GST   rages between state government and poultry vendors, sales figures at   (  state poultry development corporation) outlets in the city are going sky high. 

 Kepco has slashed prices since July 1 with the implementation of   and it has stuck to it resulting in rich returns over the last one week.
 
 The price of chicken was Rs 180/kg till June 31 which went down to Rs 158/kg with the implementation of GST. Meanwhile, the price of frozen chicken saw little or no slash. The earlier price was Rs 180/kg while post GST, the price is fixed at Rs 177/kg.
 
 There has been huge demand for chicken and sales at all the Kepco outlets in the city has increased by more than double compared to pre-GST days. At Pettah outlet alone, the sales touched 2,500kg with the stall witnessing a long queue till Sunday noon. The large disparity in prices outside has forced customers to turn up at Kepco outlets for dressed chicken. 
 
 Due to the uncertainty in prices and the strike threat from poultry farmers, some of the city-based hotels have even gone too far to purchase around 700kg of chicken in one go. “We usually have a demand of only 800 to 900kg per day while the price hike in chicken post the implementation of GST made more people come to us. From 1,000kg per day, the sale has gone up to more than 2,000kg per day and some of the hotels who used to buy 200kg have now purchased 700kg in one day,” said an employee at the Kepco outlet in Pettah. 
 
 Kepco outlets have sold 2,000kg of chicken on a daily basis for the past one week, earning up to Rs 5 lakh a day
 
 Kepco outlets are bracing for even heavier rush this week as the other traders are going on an indefinite strike from Monday. Nevertheless, the rising demand has turned out to be a headache to the staff at the outlets. “With the unexpected and growing demands, we are not sure how to cater to the situation. We also face staff shortage as some of them are down with dengue fever,” said a salesman at the Kepco outlet.
 
 
