PUNE: A designated court in Mumbai has granted bail to the chairman-cum-managing director and three directors of the Sai Prasad group of companies here in a multi-crore scam being probed by Mumbai police’s economic offences wing (EOW). 

 However, the accused are unlikely to walk out of Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail soon considering that there are 14 cases pending against them in Chhattisgarh,  , Rajasthan and Assam apart from the one in Mumbai, their lawyer Kiran Kulkarni told TOI on Thursday. 
 
 Balasaheb Bhapkar (56), CMD of the group based in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, his son and director, Shashank (26), and two other directors, Sureshlal Shrivastav and Sanjay Roy, are facing charges of duping over 20 lakh depositors across the country to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore by floating schemes that promised unrealistic returns at 15% to 21% per annum. 
 
 The group allegedly conducted its activities without the permission of the   (SEBI). In December 2015, SEBI lodged an FIR with Mumbai police’s EOW leading to arrests. Bhapkar’s wife, Vandana, is also an accused and is lodged in Durg jail, Chhattisgarh since her arrest there over a year ago.
 
 In the Mumbai case, under   (MPID) Act, the four accused have yet to furnish the sureties required for their release. “We will furnish the sureties soon but, won’t take a release memo as we will approach Chhattisgarh high court for bail in the eight cases lodged there, based on Mumbai court’s order,” Kulkarni said. 
 
 “The Madhya Pradesh high court has granted bail in one of the four cases lodged in Gwalior (2), Bhopal (1) and Chhidwara (1) while the courts in Rajasthan and Assam have granted bail in the one case each lodged there. Although, the sureties have not been paid as we were waiting for Mumbai’s court’s order,” Kulkarni added. 
 
 Special judge   of Mumbai MPID court granted bail to the four accused on February 3, observing that they have established their bonafides of returning the depositors’ money by consenting to the attachment of their immovable properties, barring 13 properties for which a decision is pending. 
 
 Besides, the digital and forensic audit critical to determining the exact number of depositors allegedly duped , is also pending and will take few more months, the court observed. “It seems that accused applicants do not want to come in the way of either investigating agency or the SEBI in liquidating the properties or disbursement of the amount to the depositors. When the entire object of the MPID Act, the main implicating act, seems to be fulfilled, I do not think that curtailing liberty of the applicants will serve any purpose,” judge Surana said.
 
