Jalandhar: At the time when medical professionals are often under criticism for choosing money over human welfare, a gastro surgeon-led small group of Jalandhar-based doctors performed critical surgery, without charging any fee, from a widow. They used social media to raise funds and help out the sole bread-winner of the family meet other costs of her care.

 The patient, 45-year-old Bholi, a resident of Amritsar, accidentally swallowed her denture over four months ago. It remained stuck in her oesophagus and repeated endoscopic interventions failed to remove it. Her family ran out of finances after she had to be admitted to two tertiary care centres.
 
 “Looking at the financial condition of the patient and the grit, tenacity and desperation of her 19-year-old daughter to save her mother, I used social media to raise funds for her medicines and other consumables while the doctors didn’t charge anything,” said gastro surgeon Dr K J Singh, who performed the surgery.
 
 “We took her to different hospitals, including PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she remained admitted for around a month. The doctors attempted to remove the denture but did not succeed,” said Bholi’s daughter Komal—the oldest among the three siblings. In absence of her mother, Komal took charge of the family affairs as well as her mother’s treatment.
 
 “By the time she was brought to us, there had already been around 8-10 attempts by different specialists. She had gone very weak, only being able to take fluids through a tube placed endoscopically into her intestines,” said Dr Singh. “If something definitive had not been done at the earliest, she would have died,” he said.
 
 Not only was the medical challenge big, the financial costs were equally crippling as Bholi was the sole bread winner of her family. Whatever little money she had, it was spent on medical and other expenses.
 
 “Looking at her three children, I decided to handle the financial challenge also. An appeal on Facebook generated some funds and even another patient contributed. We used this money for medicines and consumables,” Dr Singh said.
 
 “The denture had torn through the part of her food pipe that passes close to the lungs, the heart and the windpipe. She was not medically fit to be operated upon through the chest or through the removal of the food pipe. Therefore we devised an innovative technique of reaching the stuck denture through stomach. We removed it and repaired the food pipe too,” he said.
 
 Anaesthetist Dr Sanjeev Gupta and radiologist Dr R K Nagpal also did not charge for their services, said Dr Singh.
 
 
