MUMBAI: Even as Indian cricket entered a new era, with   officially anointed captain for all three formats, it still kept faith in the old as veterans   and   were on Friday recalled by the national selectors for the forthcoming limited-overs series against England, which begins with the first ODI at Pune from January 15, and comprises three ODIs and as many T20Is.

 For the recently-married Yuvraj, this was perhaps the perfect 'wedding gift' he would have hoped for, as India's 2011 World Cup hero, has been included in both the ODI and T20I squads. The 35-year-old enjoyed a prolific domestic season before he took a break for his marriage. The change in fortunes of the stylish left-hander clearly has also to do with the change in limited-overs captaincy from MS Dhoni to Virat, who has always believed in the Punjab batsman's abilities. Virat, chief selector MSK Prasad revealed, spoke to the panel via skype.
 
 Yuvraj last played for India in the World T20 in March 2016, and hasn't played ODIs since December 2013, after being excluded post an ordinary run with the bat. The selectors, however, recalled him based on his form in the 2016-17 Ranji Trophy, where he scored 672 runs in five matches for Punjab, at an average of 84.00, making two hundreds including a 260 against Baroda.
 
 "We should appreciate the way Yuvraj Singh has played in domestic cricket. All these days, we thought he hasn't played long innings, but he has scored a double-hundred. He scored 177 at Lahli (known to be a seamers' paradise)," said Prasad, while justifying the inclusion of the experienced batsman.
 
 With Virat keen to play all the regulars against what should be a more formidable England team than their Test side, the only fresh face in the team is that of Rishabh Pant, who's found a spot in the T20 team. The young 'keeper-bat from Delhi was in smashing form in the Ranji Trophy, slamming 972 runs in eight games @ 81.00, with a fabulous strike rate of 107.28, including a triple hundred against Maharashtra at Mumbai. Pant will be an understudy to Dhoni, who will play as a keeper-batsman after nine years at the helm. If he does get a game, the 19-year-old will have a chance to show the MSK Prasad-led panel that he's a worthy successor to Dhoni.
 
 In times of uncertainty for the sport in the country, the selection meeting too saw its share of the drama, as it was delayed by three hours on technical grounds before a 'green signal' by the Lodha panel got the ball rolling. The meeting was convened by   CEO Rahul Johri after joint secretary Amitabh Chaudhary was disqualified due to the Supreme Court verdict, which bars Board office-bearers with a cumulative period of nine years or more in the office.
 
 When they finally did meet, the selectors ended up taking some decisions which perhaps Prasad could've justified had he been allowed to talk to the media for a longer duration. Chennai triple centurion Karun Nair was omitted from both the teams, a fit-again Ajinkya Rahane was dropped from the T20 side (Punjab and Royal Challengers Bangalore batsman Mandeep Singh was preferred to him), and Suresh Raina was axed from the ODI team. Raina made a return too, but only to the T20I squad. The middle-order batsman was a part of the ODI series against New Zealand before illness ruled him out completely.
 
 All-rounder Hardik Pandya retains his ODI place after recovering from injury as does KL Rahul. Back from a hand injury, Shikhar Dhawan has managed to hang on to his place in the ODI squad. Leggie Amit Mishra, who took three for 24 to bamboozle West Indies in India's last T20 International at Fort Lauderdale in Florida, has been dropped from the team in the same format, with Haryana leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal taking his place. Chahal had a good season for RCB in the IPL Both Dhawan and Rahane will get a chance to prove their fitness in the two warm-up matches against England in Mumbai, which will see veterans like Dhoni and Nehra in action too.
 
