She is smart. She’s witty. And undoubtedly, this beauty with brains has got talent. After impressing viewers with her performances in several films, TV shows and plays, Tisca Chopra added yet another feather in her cap with her short film, Chutney, which won her the love of both critics and masses. The 15-minute short film, which features Adil Hussain and Rasika Duggal, apart from her in a pivotal role, also happens to be Tisca’s debut venture as a producer. Not only that, she has also co-written the story with Avneesh Mishra and director Jyoti Kapur Das. In Kolkata for a literary meet where her short film was screened, Tisca took time out to tell CT about her journey so far — and what made her life so spicy after all. Excerpts:

 
 I am here to take part in a couple of interactive sessions with Vikram Bhatt and Sujoy Ghosh on Chutney and short films in general. 
 
 
 
 I was super-excited. We got two, actually! While I got the Best Actress award, we also bagged the Best Film (Fiction) for Chutney. 
 
 
 To tell you honestly, this was a story that I had been marinating in my head for close to 15-16 years. But that was as an actor and it was a milder version. Over the years, the idea kept growing bigger. But writing it took about a month and a half. While writing the script last year in August, we simultaneously decided on the cast and finalised the details of pre-production, among other things. We shot it in September. Then, editing and post production took us another month and a half. We released the short film in November on YouTube. 
 
 
 
 I think shorts are going to be big in the near future and work alongside full-length features. People these days have narrow windows of time. Shorts are something they can watch anytime, anywhere while travelling or working — be it on their phones or laptops. That, I think, would be one of the key trends of the future.
 
 
 
 I have always believed that there was audience for this kind of content — where you can leave things to their imagination or interpretation — something that won’t take their intelligence for granted. I am very happy that women from smaller towns liked the film and sent letters and messages. Chutney has been quite gratifying. 
 
 
 
 The look was required for the character. Whenever you travel by a train or a car, you obviously look around. Sometimes, you want to know the stories of the ordinary people — you’d notice a woman wearing fancy jewellery, sporting a fancy hairdo or just a beautiful face… what if a person has none of these? Vanita, my character, is neither good looking, nor is she well-spoken — probably not even well-educated. She is married to a man, who is way above her status. She has no children, so even that doesn’t give her much power in the relationship. So, how does she control her destiny? Being the underdog that she is, how does she guard her turf?
 
 
 
 Oh, I hope they do. My husband is a very handsome man. As long as women are attracted to him, I am fine. But if they are looking for more, I’ll forward them the link to Chutney. 
 
 
 
 Often the relationship with co-stars ends with a film, but not in this case. Both Adil and Rasika are not just my co-actors, but they are very dear friends. Adil has taught me a few techniques of acting as well. Chutney wouldn’t have been possible without them.
 
 
 
 Yes, we have. Let’s hope for the best.
 
 
 
 Not at the moment. There was something Ekta Kapoor and I were thinking about, which didn’t materialise. However, I want to produce more content now. There are too many things lined up in the coming days. I am planning to be back in Kolkata very soon for the launch of my husband Sanjay Chopra and his co-author Namita Roy Ghosh’s novel, The Wrong Turn. It’s a story of love and betrayal, set in the times of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose.
 
 
 
 I have always been a huge fan of   and admired Shah Rukh Khan’s charm and wit. As actors, I also like Rajkumar Rao and Vicky Kaushal. We are in the process of writing something for which Ajay Devgn would be great. 
 
 
 
 We, as actors, are always looking for bigger audience. Today, it’s possible to do international projects. Of course, I’d like to be a part of international ventures purely because of the scripts, which are detailed and thorough. Having said that, I’d love to meet a few directors from Bengal and also look at a few interesting scripts. Some of the finest directors in Mumbai are from Kolkata. I’d love to act in a Bangla film and if I manage to get a good script, I can even produce one. I’ve long been a fan of Bengali films and filmmakers.
 
 
 
 The high point has always been to bring a 2D character to life in 3D and perform each and every role with honesty, because I have picked my films with great care. I was happy when Rahasya turned out to be an unexpected hit. Also, the success of Chutney has proven that what I believed in as a good script has been lapped up by the audience in a big way. I regret the fact that I didn’t write and produce Chutney earlier. Maybe I didn’t have the courage. 
 
 
 
 I love performing on stage. It’s one of the purest forms of acting, but I don’t think directing a play is my cup of tea. However, I may direct a film some day.
 
 
 
 Om Puri was undoubtedly one of the brilliant actors this industry has produced. Unfortunately, I never had a chance to work with him. When I was shooting with Naseeruddin Shah for a film called The Hungry, we heard about Omji’s sad demise. And it was such a sad moment watching Naseer sir so heartbroken about the loss of his friend and colleague of so many years.
 
 
 
 I am doing a film by Ankoosh Bhatt, called 3 Dev, where I am cast opposite Kay Kay Menon. It’s a full-fledged comedy. Then, there is Deb Medhekar’s Bioscopewala, followed by Bornila Chatterjee’s The Hungry with Naseeruddin Shah. 
 
 
 
 I like Kolkata because it is so quirky. I like the fact that people are highly individualistic with very strong opinions. For a fisheatarian like me, Kolkata is time to go into food coma. 
 
 
 
 
