PUNE: City-based   Prashant Ghule is still waiting for Rs 37,000 due to him from one  , a Ponzi scheme now under the radar of the Economic Offences Wing of the city police.

 In 2015, the company duped him into paying more than Rs 82,000 for a five-year membership with the promise of attractive deals and discounts in leading hotels, banquets and gyms in India and abroad.
 
 According to Ghule, the company never provided the services nor refunded the membership money, claiming that the agreement he had ‘signed’ with them clearly stated that the money was non-refundable.
 
 Ghule, who is still awaiting action on the execution order in the case he won in the city’s additional sessions court against the company, now advises other citizens similarly duped by the company.
 
 He is also in touch with officers of the EOW who are gearing up to prosecute the promoters of the company under the stringent Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, 1999.
 
 Ghule estimates there are more than 400 citizens in the city who have been similarly cheated in the last couple of years. 
 
 It’s a bogus company that has no tie-ups with anyone and operates under several names, alleged Sudip Chandratre, another city-based victim who too is awaiting refund for his money.
 
 “In Pune, they had their offices in Aundh and inside a mall in Hadapsar. I have heard there are victims like me in Vashi, Thane, Mumbai and Hyderabad too,” he said.
 
 Rajesh Puranik, police inspector in-charge of the case in the EOW, said, “Priority International is a paper company which took the support of a local person to spread out in the city. We have identified ten accused in the case, most of who are from Hyderabad. Cases against them are registered in Hyderabad and Navi Mumbai too. Our estimate is that they have siphoned off almost Rs 50 crore in the last five years or so. We have already found 40 of their victims in Pune alone, but are sure there are several hundred more”.
 
 Several attempts to connect with company representatives over phone and email proved to be futile.
 
