JAIPUR: With cases of MSMEs struggling to get payments against their supplies to government departments, PSUs and large companies rising, the demand for constitution of the facilitation council is also growing louder. While the two-year tenure of the last   has ended in March last year, the work for the constitution of a new one is yet to be undertaken.

 "As a quasi-judicial body, facilitation councils play a crucial role in solving payment disputes. This has helped MSMEs in the past in receiving payments and meeting their working capital needs. We urge the government not only to form the council as soon as possible but also hold regular meetings to dispose of cases which have piled up," said an entrepreneur who is battling cash crunch and demand slump after the demonetization was announced.
 
 As per industry estimates, the number of such disputes has now run into hundreds. In order to encourage the micro,   (MSMEs), the government mandates its departments, PSUs and also autonomous bodies to procure certain percentage of their overall requirements from these companies. But, many a time the payments get delayed owing to disputes over quality, specifications, etc.
 
 In the   announced last year, the state government has laid enough emphasis to make the facilitation council more effective for expeditious resolution of disputes pertaining to delayed payments. And also to bring in transparency, the policy proposed the use of IT in the processes and working of the council.
 
 Some entrepreneurs said because of the council maximum number of disputes were resolved in the past. "Even in the cases where the two parties failed to find a solution, the buyer of goods and services needed to deposit 75% of the money if it wanted to go to the court. Such a law mostly worked in favour of a settlement at the council itself," he added. 
 
 But the common concern has been that even when the council exists, the meetings were not always at a frequency required to dispose of the volume of disputes. "The last council met only 3-4 times during its two-year tenure. It has to be at a regular interval if there are cases to address," added the entrepreneur.
 
