BENGALURU: Women comprise just one third of the labour force in  . As per 2014-15 data from the director of employment and training in the labour department, of the 23.85 lakh employed citizens in the state, only 7.72 lakh are women.

 Predictably, among the districts, Bengaluru tops the list, with 3.16 lakh women in the workforce. The data further categorizes employment into private and public sectors. Going by this classification, Bengaluru has 2.59 lakh women working in the private sector and 56,478 in government services.
 
 While   district has the highest number of women employed in the public sector (21,056),   has 1.26 lakh women employed in private jobs. This also reflects the higher literacy levels in these districts. However, the difference is more visible between rural and urban areas. 
  
 The 2015-16 workforce database reveals 38% of rural women are part of the workforce (about 70 lakh), while urban areas have 20.8% of women in the workforce (about 30 lakh). However, though a lot of women are employed in the agricultural sector, their presence is not recorded as part of the labour force because the sector is still unorganized. However, Karnataka's women employment scenario is better than the national average, claims a study by the   (ILO). According to the ILO, about 26% of women are employed in India as against 80% men. And it's the agricultural sector that accommodates most of these women (almost 80% of the total women workforce). 
 
 However, going by ILO's report, the national figures are not just low but also on a steady decline due to the high attrition rate among women in both formal and informal job sectors. This also indicates the difficulties women face in performing domestic duties and contributing towards family work which are not considered part of paid labour. Insights from primary surveys underscore factors such as reproductive roles, household and care responsibilities, cultural sanctions, patriarchal hierarchies ­­ all of which impact their scope of stepping out of homes to work.
 
 Also, women's decision to be engaged in domestic duties is entirely voluntary , says the report. It further shows that a whopping 95% of both urban and rural women were willing to accept work from home on a regular basis, and 70% of urban women preferred regular part-time work. Going by ILO's research, explanations for not seeking work out of home include improvement in earnings of male workers that discourages women's economic participation and lack of employment opportunities at certain levels of skills and qualifications.
 
