CHARMINAR: As the sun beats down on bikers speeding down Dabeerpura flyover, the story under the bridge is different. A shatranji - a thick woven cloth - tessellates its stone-paved flooring. Plates are arranged and soon over a hundred poor men and women are served  . 

 The barefoot man serving them is  , founder of 'Hunger Has No Religion' campaign.
 
 Azhar, who runs a small plaster of Paris (PoP) business, has a small office in Dabeerpura. It is from here he manages the campaign.
 
 "There are two places in the city, Dabeerpura and  , where we serve food for free," he says. Azhar keeps count on days of his campaign. "It has been 1,731 days under the Dabeerpura flyover and 525 days at Gandhi hospital," he said.
 
 Azhar, who was featured on a popular television programme with superstar  , is no stranger to poverty. He has felt the pangs of hunger. "My father, who was an auto rickshaw driver, died when I was just four. With the sole breadwinner of the family gone, there have been several days when my five siblings, mother and I had no food or water. All of us lived in a cramped room in  ," he says. 
 
 The idea to set up a daily free food camp was born after Azhar saw a destitute at Dabeerpura station writhing in pain. He later found she was hungry for several days. "I still remember her name. She was Laxmi. That is when I decided to do something. Every day, I would feed the hungry," he said. He would often sell PoP raw material to buy rice to make food packets. Five years later, he feeds as many as 140 people under the Dabeerpura flyover and up to 250 near Gandhi Hospital. He's not alone. Azhar also gets help from Good Samaritans. "A few years ago, an NRI who took a wrong turn chanced upon the camp. I was told he later made inquiries. After being satisfied, he started donating 15 bags of rice. This continued for many years." His Facebook friends too have been of great help, so much so that Azhar claims the campaign could not have worked without them.
 
 His new 'Do Roti' campaign urges professionals, students and others to carry two rotis wherever they go and give it to those in need at traffic signals and other places. "This is to discourage children from begging at traffic signals. Hopefully, it will have an impact," Azhar says.
 
