KOCHI: Over 1,500 schools in the state are operating without government recognition and the state plans on taking strict action against them, director of public instruction ( ) K V   said on Friday. 

 While most of these schools have not secured   from the state government to function as a school, some have not even applied for NOC, he said. "Every year, the department will initiate action but the schools will move court and get an order in their favour and continue for that particular academic year. That is what has been happening in   for the past years," said Mohankumar. This year the department is targeting those `unauthorized schools' that have commenced operation without attaining an NOC from the government following the implementation of the RTE Act.
 
 “Some of these schools have been operating before the RTE Act and they have applied for an NOC, which is being processed by the government.In the case of those schools that have started operation after the implementation of the RTE Act i.e. after 2009, we will take action,“ he said.
 
 DPI suggested that functioning of these schools are `illegal' and that they should have sought the NOC from the state government before starting their operations. “We will proceed as per the provision of the Right to Education Act, and issue a closure notice. Suppose they are not obliging, we take further actions as per the provision of the law,“ he said.
 
 “The worst part is that they are collecting a huge amount of money from the students. The teachers they have do not have the required qualification and have not come through the proper examination,“ he added.
 
 Meanwhile, president of Kerala CBSE School Managements' Association T P M Ibrahim said that the notice issued by the DDE's were not consistent with the requirements put forward by CBSE.
 
 “Before applying for affiliation with CBSE, a school must have a facility that offers classes till grade 6. Demanding a closure of these schools is actually a violation of the students right to education and inconsistent with CBSE requirements,“ he said.
 
 
