BHOPAL: As many as 23 out of 51 districts in Madhya Pradesh have received less than average rainfall till Friday morning.

 The deficit extends till 50% in some districts against the average rainfall that should have received till date.
 
 Dismal rainfall has not only affected the weather, but also the sowing of soybean and paddy, as close to half of the monsoon period is already over in state.
 
 Bhopal is among the top five affected districts. Though the city and parts of state are experiencing showers for past two days after a long gap, it is not sure whether the deficit would be met as it is increasing with every passing day.
 
 Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle attributed the dismal rain to absence of systems over MP and shifting of monsoon trough towards northern parts of country.
 
 Met officials said so far monsoon has been normal in MP. Rain would be less this time in comparison of last year but it will be close to normal.
 
 The state is expected to get good amount of rainfall in July and August while in September rainfall activity would be less due to El Nino factor, officials added. 
 
 Seasonal rainfall in state is measured from June 1 to September 30.
 
 Districts that received less than average rainfall are Anuppur, Balaghat, Chhindwara, Dindori, Jabalpur, Mandla, Narsinghpur, Seoni, Shahdol, in east MP.
 
 Rain deficit places in west MP include, Agar, Betul, Bhopal, Guna, Gwalior, Harda, Hoshangabad, Khargone, Mandsaur, Morena, Sehore, Sheopur, Shivpuri and Ujjain.
 
 Overall MP is just one per cent deficit as some places that have received excess rainfall have covered the overall deficit. MP has received 250.4 mm rainfall till Friday morning against the average of 252.8 mm rain that should have been received till date.
 
 In east and west MP, east MP is two per cent rain surplus while west MP is 4 per cent rain deficit. Met department remained hopeful that monsoon is getting better in MP due to fresh formations in   and coming down of monsoon trough.
 
 Former agriculture director, GS Kaushal said production of soybean would suffer in places that have witnessed long gaps in rain. The production would also go down if sowing is done after July 15 or July 20. There is not sufficient water for paddy and only the ones who have sufficient irrigation facility should go for it, he added.
 
 Top five rain deficit places in MP
 
 City- Deficit in %
 
 Agar- 54
 
 Sheopur-48
 
 Balaghat-46
 
 Bhopal-38
 
 Shahdol & Dindori- 33
 
 (figures as on 8.30 am on Friday)
 
