CHANDIGARH: The controversial Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal construction between Haryana and Punjab and Shahpur Kandi dam project between Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir are among the 45 issues which are on the agenda of the 28th   meeting scheduled to be held on Friday in Chandigarh. The 27th North Zonal Council meeting was held in New Delhi in April 2015 and out of a total of 25 items on the list, 14 were disposed off.

 The meeting hosted by the Punjab government would be chaired by Union home minister Rajnath Singh. Chief ministers, chief secretaries, some ministers and other senior officers from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Rajasthan, union territory Chandigarh and national capital territory Delhi would attend the meeting. It would start at 11 am at Taj Hotel and finish at around 2 pm. Thereafter, Singh will return to Delhi. 
 
 The proposed 214-km SYL canal is proposed to connect Satluj with Yamuna. It would flow 122-km in Punjab and 92-km in Haryana. This has however led to tiff between the two states. On Supreme Court’s directions, the central government is intervening for an amicable solution to the stalemate. However, the Shahpur Kandi Dam project comes under the Indus Waters Treaty between India and Pakistan. Set to be constructed downstream the Ranjit Sagar dam, Punjab and J&K had in March reached a consensus to construct the dam on Ravi in Gurdaspur district.
 
 There are five zonal councils which include central, western, northern, southern and eastern established under the State Reorganization Act, 1956. The purpose of the meetings of the zonal councils is to discuss common issues of participating states in the fields of economics and social planning, border disputes, linguistic minorities, inter-state transport and any matter with regard to the reorganization of the participating states. During these meetings states are also encouraged to resolve substantive issues of regional interests through consultative mechanism and implement national schemes of public interest interest.
 The previous meeting of the council was held in New Delhi in April 2015.
 
