 retired as a decorated army officer. Today he is a proactive agriculturist with specialisation in food and cash crops. He is the great grandson of Rai Bahadur Emani Satyanarayana, one of the first few Indian origin engineers in the British Raj, and great nephew of Sir Vepa Ramesam, the first Indian origin Chief Justice of the former Madras Presidency. His grandfather, Emani Prasad Rao, was one of the first automobile engineers in India. In an interview with Venkatesh Bayya of TOI, 50-year-old Raman speaks about his days in the Indian army and his penchant for innovation in  . 

 
 
 I was planning my career in management. I came across the CDS exam and appeared for it. I had qualified in the written test and was called for the Services Selection Board (SSB). As luck would have it I had qualified for IIM Calcutta and the interview for it was scheduled immediately after the SSB. I went for the SSB and qualified in it. I was told that I had to wait in Allahabad for the medical examination. I decided that a bird in hand is worth two in the bush. So I left IIM and joined the army in June 1988.
 
 
 
 I served in Kashmir during the peak of insurgency from 1990 to 1993. Being from the infantry anti-insurgency operations in Kashmir valley was our main task. I was actively involved in anti-militancy operations. I was also involved in anti-militancy operations in Manipur from 1996 to 1998. The type of insurgency there was different from what I had encountered in Kashmir. I was in the operations role. In 2000 I was deployed with my company in Udhampur and we effectively foiled infiltration of militants. A few members of my troop were recommended for gallantry awards. One of them earned the Sena Medal under my command. I also served with the United Nations as a peace keeper in Lebanon. I managed to stave off a full scale war between Lebanon and Israel on a number of occasions through my negotiations and defusing potential situations in time. I also participated in the Kargil War in 1999.
 
 
 
 
 I earned the chief of the army commendation card, the northern army commander’s commendation card and the Sena Medal for gallantry. I also got a certificate of appreciation from the force commander of UNIFIL Major General Allan Pellegrini of the French Army (United Nations Interim Force In Lebanon).
 
 
 
 
 I quit service in 2010 due to personal reasons. I went to IIM Ahmedabad to do my MBA post retirement which actually helped me to quickly adapt to the life outside the army. Initially I found life quite strange and indisciplined but slowly adapted to it.
 
 
 
 I had done gardening as a kid in school and had some inkling on how it was done. I like nature and farming gave me the pleasure of being with nature. So I decided I would give it a shot.
 
 
 
 
 I happened to re-connect with an old family friend, CV Raju, who was trying to keep alive a dying art form of Andhra Pradesh. He was an agriculturist as well. He became my guide and advisor on the subject.
 
 
 
 
 I practise agriculture in Etikoppaka. Agriculture is quite intriguing and it is a great experience. I started with growing turmeric and vegetables. I have now branched into food grains, pulses, and banana. 
 
 
 
 
 First, weather is a major factor that effects agriculture. Local weather stations are non-existent. We often get wrong predictions, which are detrimental to agriculture. The government does not see agriculture as an industry, which is fundamental for the economy. What is forgotten is without agriculture there will be no food and it will cause food price inflation. The government provides electricity for four hours a day to agriculturists at odd hours. Many a time subsidies do not reach the farmers. 
 
 
 
 
 After completing my management studies I returned home and visited Etikoppaka. I met CV Raju, who was struggling to keep the art of Etikoppaka toy making alive. I decided to chip in and help him with marketing and promotion. I worked towards changing the way the art form could be promoted and projected.
 
 
 
 Having got into the environment of a village it was but natural for me to interact and understand the life of the village folks. As I started interacting I learnt to not only see their hard life but also humour in their simplicity. Having personally witnessed and experienced some incidents I decided that the folklore needs to be documented.
 
 
