Lucknow: Narrow lanes of Old City lead one after another to a small decrepit house in Astabal Charbagh that was once the abode of ‘Sheedees’ in the city. The area was once brimming with members of the community that traces its roots to Africa (Habash in Arabic). The Habshees became ‘Sheedees’ when they were brought to Awadh from Karbala, Iraq. A fact that is not known even to their last descendant is that Sheedees were the front-runners in the first war of Independence waged under   in 1857.

 Among the last of Sheedees left in the city are Sheedi Athar Husain, who lives in the Astabal Charbagh house with his old mother and ailing brother. And none of them is aware of the proud lineage. 
 
 Better informed about their history is Shaan Ali, the head of Anjuman Shah Inso Jan, the first and oldest group reciting elegies and poetry mourning the tragedy of Karbala and martyrdom of of Imam Husain, Prophet Mohammad’s grandson. Ali is not a member of the community but he shares the bits and pieces picked up from old Sheedees in whose close proximity he lived and grew up. “The members of the community were brought to Awadh during the rule of King Naseer-ud-Din in the early 1800s from Iraq and were formed into a group to recite elegies in the royal court under the king. It was for this task that the Habshees got the name  , derived from ‘shaida’, meaning devotee,” said Ali. 
 
 Flipping through old yellow files, a former secretary of the Anjuman, Taqi Husain authenticated the claim presenting the ‘Matami Dasta’ (small group of people for mourning) letterhead from the 1980s. “Here, it says clearly that the Dasta originated in 1832 and was later established to form a larger Anjuman in 1888. But that was not their only claim to history. They had a huge role in the 1857 war of Independence too,” said the elderly man.
 
 Several books and research done on the topic have established the role of the Sheedees in the 1857 war, be it historian Rosie Llewellyn-Jones’s study tracing the descendants of those who fought against the British after the last King Nawab Wajid Ali Shah was deposed, or author S N Lal’s book on Lucknow that manifests that it was not just the Sheedee men but also the women of the community who took active part in the war against the British rulers, under the leadership of Begum Hazrat Mahal, the last queen of Awadh.
 
 
