NEW DELHI: Alleging “relentless harassment” at the hands of Calcutta high court judge   for his scurrilous attack against his fellow judge of  , the wife of the aggrieved judge approached the   on Monday seeking protection for her husband and family members against baseless allegations.

 The petition filed by  , wife of Madras HC judge  , alleged that Justice Karnan had made baseless allegations of rape against her husband and his statement was being circulated on the social media, damaging the family’s reputation.
 
 Pointing out various incidents, the petitioner submitted that Justice Karnan had also abused her daughter and used “sexually obscene language” while talking to her in 2015. “The applicant is seeking protection of this court against the scurrilous attacks being made by Justice Karnan against her husband and harassment of the applicant and her family through his obscene telephone calls. 
 
 It is therefore respectfully prayed that this court may graciously be pleased to direct Justice Karnan not to communicate, through letters or any other means, or attack the character and work of the applicant and her husband,” the petition said.
 
 After a brief hearing, a bench of Justices   and D Y Chandrachud said the application filed by Rajakumari be decided by a seven-judge bench which had initiated contempt proceeding against Justice Karnan for making baseless allegations against judges of the Madras HC and Supreme Court. It said that the plea of Registrar General of Madras HC challenging Justice Karnan‘ s decision to stay the   order to transfer him be also heard by the larger bench.
 
 Rajakumari alleged in her plea that Justice Karnan had abused her husband on numerous occasions and made a false allegation that Justice Manikumar had raped his lady clerk.
 
 “Justice Karnan’s hollow allegations, on his official letterhead, are being freely circulated all over social media and are causing widespread damage to the reputation of the entire family of the applicant, apart from damaging reputation of the judiciary.
 
 These falsities are being circulated amongst high officials and the general public only to give impression that there is some truth in the accusation, though there is none,” she said.
 
 “Since 2014, the applicant’s husband has been asked multiple times to respond to Justice Karnan’s false allegations even though there is not an iota of substance in them. Her husband has submitted various responses to aforesaid letters and it is uncertain how much longer the family will have to continue to endure the relentless harassment at the hands of the said judge (Justice Karnan),” she said.
 
