Trichy: Periya Sooriyur village, a   hotspot in the district, will give the bull-taming sport a miss this year as the organizers have decided not to conduct the event now instead of its usual date the second day of Tamil month ‘Thai’.

 “We used to organize the event on Maattu Pongal for several decades. We are happy that the ban on jallikattu was revoked, but our village committee does not want to conduct the sport after the Pongal festival by deviating from the regular practice,” said one of the organizers in Periya Sooriyur S Raja. 
 
 Until 2013, the event in Periya Sooriyur kicked off the jallikattu season in the district. With the Tamil Nadu Assembly passing the Jallikattu Bill, bull tamers and jallikattu enthusiasts were hopeful of seeing the event return to Periya Sooriyur. However, the decision of the village committee has left them disappointed. 
 
 “We were eagerly awaiting jallikattu in Periya Sooriyur where my bull participated for several years till 2013. Though jallikattu has been held at several other places, we are sad to miss this event,” said B Baba Balaji, a bull owner from Thiruvanaikovila. 
 
 President of Veera Vilaiyattu Meetpu Kazhagam T Rajesh said that jallikattu is usually held as part of temple festivities during Pongal and people would not want to change their custom fearing bad omen. “Jallikattu is conducted along with a temple festival. People will not hold the event after the festival, at many places,” said Rajesh. 
 
 As far as Trichy district is concerned, jallikattu is held at Periya Sooriyur, Karunkulam, Lalgudi, Anbil and Pullambadi. The event in Karunkulam turned out to be a delight for the supporters on Sunday. It was the first event held with permission from the district administration.
 
 The organizers at other venues are yet to decide on conducting the sport this year. Sources said that the village committees are conducting discussions whether to conduct the event this year. 
 
 “Usually, we conduct jallikattu in March every year. We have planned to conduct jallikattu in Anbil on March 19,” said Uthayakumar, convener of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai. 
 
 
