Nagpur: Around 35 Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) first semester students of Nabira College, Katol, are running pillar to post ever since they found names of other students on marklists issued against their roll numbers. The students had appeared for their backlog exams between April 11 and 24, and the results were declared on June 12. The blunder came to fore when the students sought Nagpur University’s (NU) intervention, but failed to get any help for more than a month. NU officials blame the college for submitting exam forms late, and allotting duplicate roll numbers to some students. The students, meanwhile, said NU was also responsible, since it issued manual hall tickets with roll numbers, exam details, student name etc moments before the exam. Some girls were even given roll numbers orally, they said. Though the hall tickets had the scanned seal and signature of the principal as well as NU exam director, enrolment numbers were missing on them. Later, when the results were announced on June 12, the students were rattled to find that the marklists displayed against their roll numbers had names of students from other colleges, though of the same stream. Vice chancellor SP Kane said, “The college had failed to submit exam forms and fee despite of repeated warnings. A day before the exam, I used special powers entrusted to the VC and waived off the late fee. Since hall tickets are generated online, we had to issue manual ones a day before the exam. But, it seems the college allowed more students by giving them their own roll numbers. Those answersheets too were evaluated, but have been kept aside.” Kane said an inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken against the college. Nabira College didn’t answer TOI’s calls. The aggrieved students said that since the college and NU failed to address their concerns, they sought the help of National Students Union of India (NSUI). On Monday, NSUI president Ajit Singh and its Katol president Vinod Naukariya along with the students again approached the VC. Since last year, NU has given up the exam process involving form filling, delivery of hall tickets, question papers, results etc, and made it online. By far, the university has been delivering exam material without any glitches after introducing reforms in 2015.  NU officials said the hall tickets may not have been generated because the college failed to submit forms and fee on time. Director Board of Examinations and Evaluations Neeraj Khaty confirmed that the case has come before him, but he questioned why the students didn’t complain immediately after results. “Verification of documents is underway. Action will be taken against the college. But before that we are trying to find a way to help the students. I feel the students shouldn’t pay for all these blunders. I told the students that if the case fits in our policy, then result will be declared,” he said. However, Khaty claimed that there were not more than a couple of such students. “Only two or three students had come to me today. I didn’t commit anything, but told them that if forms were filled and answersheets submitted, then we will release the results,” he said. When asked how much time it will take, Khaty said it may take a month to resolve the issue.