"Oh! porottayum beefum kazhikkan thonnunu!’ There won’t be a single Malayali who wouldn’t have uttered or listened to this ‘classic Malayali dialogue’ at least once in their life. And the vegetarian minority in the State would only be too familiar with the rants from their beef crazy friends — ‘Ayye, ithuvare beef kazhichittilla? Kashtam!’ which would be followed by a drool-worthy description — ‘tender beef pieces in a thick gravy of ginger, garlic, pepper, and chilly, garnished with thick long fried coconut pieces!’ Yes, no matter which part of the world they are in, there is no separating the Malayali from his/her beef.

  But all of it could very well be a thing of the past; if the much-feared beef ban, a nightmare which has been resisted by Keralites for years becomes a reality, with the implementation of the notification issued by the  ,   on the regulation of livestock markets.
 
 Unsurprisingly, the beef fans of God’s Own Country are not keeping quiet and have taken to the streets to protest. We bring you some of the funniest reactions of all.
 
 
 
 
 “A Malayali without beef is like Metallica without guitars, cricket without Sachin and a Formula One car without wheels,” says the members of the Beef Janata Party, the social media group started earlier in protest against the beef ban. “You are taking out one of the most important ingredients of the global identity of Malayalis. No wonder, the loudest of outrage against the ban is coming from this part of India,” they say.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, several of the die-hard beef lovers are contemplating visiting de-addiction centres, if the beef ban becomes a reality. Pramod G from Trivandrum is one such, who had porotta and beef for breakfast even on his wedding day. “I am a beef addict. I need my beef!” says a disturbed Pramod, who admits that even on festival days like Vishu and Onam, he sneaks away to get a taste of his favourite cuisine.
 
  
  
 
 Similar is the case of Devika M, who comes from a family of pure vegetarians. She had a bite of beef cutlet by accident from the Indian Coffee House, Kozhikode, once during an evening outing with her friends, and thus started her secret tryst with beef. “I have been having it for seven years now. I am going to miss it badly. I really believe that beef fry with porotta is the best food mankind has ever made. The beef omelette at Coffee House is something which I can’t live without,” says a visibly annoyed Devika, who was even planning to announce her ‘love affair with beef’ at home.
 
 
 And at the forefront of all the protests are Kottayam natives, who say that beef, for them, is like what blood is to the heart! Pala-based Mathew Sebastian vehemently says that removing beef from their cuisine is like killing an entire culture. “A life without beef is impossible for us ‘Kottayam achayans’. Go to any house, any time, here and you will see different versions of beef. Be it rain or shine, beef has to be on the plate. Also, what do we do for ‘touchings’ in our evening parties?” asks Mathew, adding that the nostalgia linked with the dish is what makes the majority of the non-resident Kottayam natives come back home at least once in two years. “Kanthari, cheriya ulli and unakkayirachi (dried beef) blended together and fried in a low flame is the best delicacy to munch on during the rains. Throw in a peg of alcohol or just kattan chaya! Whoever leaves home carries with them kilos of unnakkayirichi to have a taste of it when homesick,” he says.
 
  
  
 
  For the same reason, apparently, a good number of NRIs have decided not to return to a ‘Beefless Kerala’. “The first thing I do on reaching Kerala is go to the market and buy beef. Now, I don’t feel like coming down at all. Further, I can get it abundantly here in the USA. The day is not far when I will have to ask my parents to come over here to have beef and kappa!” rues Rahul S R, settled in the US.
 
 
 
 
 Beef crosses all barriers of religion and region, and is loved by all, reiterate its fans. “Kerala mein beef ke bina kya zindagi hai!” asks Anisha Sheth, a Gujarat native , who grabbed a bite of it during a Christian wedding in Kerala, years ago. “My memories of Kerala is always filled with the taste of beef delicacies. It tastes heavenly! I love the kappa biriyani they serve on the previous day of the weddings and also beef dry fry, which has long, thin pieces of fried beef. It is the best snack you will ever have!”
 
  
  
 
 And there is no better way to break your Ramzan fast than with beef, say foodie couple Nasar K P and Nishida Nasar, from Wayanad. “It is like the official dish of Kerala and has no religion. No Malayali has ever celebrated a taboo on beef, unlike in the rest of the country. During the Ramzan fasting, beef is one of the most cooked dish and all our guests relish it immensely! It is a blissful sight to see them drooling over the delicacies we serve,” says Nasar, confessing that his dying wish would be to have porotta and beef!
  
  
 And there are quite a few Malayalis who are worried about the fate of porotta in the event of a beef ban. “The love affair of the two is like that of Laila and Majnu, or Romeo and Juliet! We cannot imagine porotta without beef! A juicy beef curry with a piece of porotta is the absolute combination one can ever have! We might have to find alternatives now but no! We don’t want to!” says Rakesh Raveendran from Kozhikode.
 
 
 
 
 Furious at the latest regulations issued by the centre, beef loving public from various parties here organised protests across the state. Prominent among them were the beef fest organised by the Student Federation of India (SFI). 210 SFI area committee units from different parts of the State led the protests while youth Congress members in Ernakulam protested by serving beef and porotta on plantain leaves. Kerala Students Union registered their discontent by eating beef on Friday soon after the new regulations were announced. The protests became colourful as the day progressed, with students of different colleges joining in.
 
 
 
