GURUGRAM: No data on composition of waste at Bandhwari treatment plant is available with the civic authorities, according to a report submitted by the   ( ) with the National Green Tribunal (NGT).

 The CPCB recently filed a comprehensive report on the action plan submitted by Haryana civic authorities for solid waste management conducted by municipal corporations at   over the last two years. “Waste generation data (has been) provided on cluster basis but no composition/characteristics data of waste is available,” states the report (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 “There is no data available on what kind of waste is generated and collected at Bandhwari waste treatment plant. Therefore, it has been suggested that a separate action plan for reclaiming existing dumping sites for bio-mining/capping/closure is adopted. Also a state policy or strategy for sustainability of waste treatment and compost must be formed,” said a CPCB official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 The board also observed that the plan proposed by the state needs to be synchronised with activities of ongoing Swachh Bharat Mission. “Waste segregation should take place at the source, since most compost plants will be functional only by May 2019. Segregation of waste can be followed by composting of organic wastes. Recyclables should be recovered to reduce burden on dumping sites,” added the official. 
 
 Civic authorities have decided to start waste treatment projects at   by April 2019, and Sonepat and Rohtak by May 2019, while compost plants are to start at Hisar, Bhiwani, Karnal and Bhuna by October 2018; at Ambala, Yamuna Nagar, Sirsa and Rewari by November 2018; and at Farrukhnagar, Punhana, Jind and Panchkula by February 2019.
 
 “Several initiatives have been taken to ensure 100% door-to-door collection of garbage. We’ve also ensured elimination of open defecation, ban on plastic bags and provision of leaving 5% area of FAR (floor area ratio), in the building code 2016, for solid waste management,” an MCG official said.
 
 The Bandhwari municipal waste treatment plant, located off Gurgaon-Faridabad road, has been lying defunct since November 2013, after a fire broke out at the plant. However, corporations of Gurgaon and Faridabad continue to dump 1,100 tonnes of mixed waste every day at the site.
 
 The report was submitted by CPCB in the case (original application number 61 of 2017 and 281 of 2016) of   vs Union of India & others, and Kudrat Sandhu vs government of NCT & others.
 
 
