NEW DELHI:   extended security to Lady Shri Ram College student   after she received rape threats for having spoken out against ABVP in the aftermath of violence at Ramjas College last week. Kaur registered a complaint with DCW in this regard on Monday after which the commission wrote to the Delhi Police, asking for security for Kaur and her family.

 “(Kaur) has initiated a social media campaign advocating peace in universities.However, she has been subjected to extreme abuse and rape threats online...the commission is also of the view that urgent criminal action needs to be taken against the abusers. Kaur has also requested for police protection for herself and her family,“ Maliwal said in her letter to police commissioner Amulya Patnaik.
 
 On Monday night, Maliwal tweeted: “Presently DCW home guards are providing protection to Gurmehar Kaur. We will be with her 24x7. Hope Delhi Police urgently gives her protection.“
 
 A social media campaign against ABVP in the wake of Wednesday's violence in Delhi University's Ramjas College has gone viral with students from different campuses changing their profile pictures on Instagram and Facebook. The campaign, “I'm Not Afraid of ABVP“, was initiated by Kaur, daughter of Kargil martyr Captain Mandeep Singh.
 
 In her complaint, Kaur apprised the commission of being threatened on social media. The commission took cognisance of the matter after media reported it. Maliwal said that her office got in touch with Kaur after it got to know about the threats.
 
 “She showed us screenshots where unknown people threatened her with rape, which is shameful. DCW has taken cognisance of this,“ said Maliwal. “We have written to the Delhi Police commissioner to immediately file FIRs against these people and arrest them at the earliest. The security of Gurmehar Kaur and her family is now Delhi Police's responsibility,“ added Maliwal.
 
 Kaur, after filing the complaint, said: “It doesn't matter who you are or what organisation you belong to, you cannot threaten a woman with rape.There will be a protest march from Khalsa College on Tuesday afternoon. It will be a peaceful protest because we don't want any bullies in the country.“
 
