BENGALURU: If all goes as per BMRCL's plan, Silk Board Junction will become signal free in three to four years. On Thursday, BMRCL MD Pradeep Singh Kharola showcased a model of the Silk Board interchange station that will be made such that the junction infamous for bottlenecks will be made signal free.

 The 17-km Outer Ring Road (ORR) metro line that was proposed to be an extended part of the second phase of metro project connects Silk Board junction with KR Puram but also connects the RV Road-Bommasandra line at Silk Board junction and Whitefield-Kengeri line at KR Puram. These are the two of the four interchange stations that Bengaluru will have in future. Kempegowda interchange station in Majestic is the first one and Jayadeva is another.
 
 BMRCL has designed multi entry/exit ramps to the elevated road from Ragigudda to Silk Board-3.2 km. "We will widen the road between Ragigudda to Silk Board which is very narrow at certain stretches causing the traffic to be choked at Silk Board. And build the elevated road to provide two levels of road for vehicles to go underneath the metro line. A part of this elevated road will also serve as deck for the interchange station at Silk Board junction," said Kharola.
 
 Officials said that the two lines-towards Electronic City and KR Puram will have two stations, connected at the same place, which will be built in the middle of the road. "This will reduce land acquisition. WE are only going to acquire two acres of land of the Central Silk Board office and quarters on either sides of the road. One of the elevated roads will have a loop that takes a U turn on the Madiwala side of the junction to ensure signal-free traffic movement from BTM Layout side towards KR Puram and Electronic City. The interchange station is pegged at Rs900 crores.
 
 K J George, Bengaluru development minister said, "We are making all efforts to decongest the city roads and Silk Board is a priority because it is a nightmare for citizens. BDA will widen the roads beneath and BMRCL will build the metro lines and elevated roads with the help of BDA and BBMP."
 
 Kharola added that the ORR metro is in design state and will be submitted to the government for approval within a month. "Once the state approves, we can start the work and it should take us three to four years to complete the project," he said.
 
 He also said that he is going to meet minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha on Friday to discuss the choice of route to link   with the metro. BMRCL earlier announced to have selected the Nagawara-Kannur-Bagaluru-KIA route based on the suggestions from public and feasibility reports.
 
 BMRCL said it has received in-principle approval of Rs3600 crores from  , Rs3500 crores from Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and sanctioned funds from AFB of 250 million Euros. George also directed the officials to expedite the feasibility reports and land acquisition requirements for phase 3 of metro projects, calling it an unending requirement for the city.
 
