PATNA: The ambitious project of rehabilitation of the   is being delayed owing to the alleged apathetic attitude of the state government in allowing the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to start the demolition of the dilapidated bridge to pave way for the repair works.

 Senior officials in the MoRTH claimed that nearly three months have already passed since the award of contract for the project which is slated to be completed in 42 months as per the commitment made in the Patna high court. 
 
 Apparently, a tussle is going on between the state government and the MoRTH over commencement of dismantling of the setu due to the fact that only one- way movement will be allowed on the entire stretch of the 5.575km-long bridge during the rehabilitation works.
 
 The state has been asking the Centre to hold the dismantling work till alternative traffic arrangement is in place, whereas the Centre is keen on starting the work at the earliest as it was initially proposed to start from January 17.
 
 “We have been waiting for nearly three months for the state government to give a go-ahead for commencement of rehabilitation works on the setu. The contractor has also mobilized the required resources, including machinery and team of engineers and other workers. There have been several rounds of meetings as well, but the state government is unable to streamline things,” said a MoRTH official on Friday, wishing anonymity.
 
 The official added the delay would not only escalate the project cost, but also lead to trouble for MoRTH as it has made a commitment to the high court.
 
 Meanwhile, the pontoon bridge installed parallel the setu in February for allowing alternate vehicular movement during the rehabilitation works will also be decommissioned by May-end with the onset of monsoon. It is already not being used at night due to absence of sufficient illumination.
 
 Officials in the road construction department claimed that the development of approach road for the road-deck of the   rail-cum-road bridge is also likely to be delayed owing to land acquisition issues on Patna-end. Around 70% of the required land at Digha has been taken on lease due to difficulties in acquiring the same.
 
 Though both the road and the rail deck of the   were made ready in 2015 and movement of passenger trains also began from February last year, vehicular movement on the road deck has still not started owing to delay in construction of approach roads on either side.
 
 
