PUNE: Dropping her six-year-old son at a day care, a   Prachi Ingle spends about five hours in the evening every day at   at Krishnasundar lawns.

 With the Ganeshotsav just a month away, the practice sessions of the pathaks (groups) have started in full swing. And skillfully juggling between household chores, jobs and the exhausting practice sessions are the women members of these (groups).
 
 Maitreyee Gokhale (20) was 14 years of age when she joined a dhol pathak. Juggling between studies and the practice sessions, she has managed to keep up with her passion for the past six years.
 
 “Studies are a type of duty that we need to fulfil. However, playing dhol is a passion. During my college days, I used to finish my studies in the afternoons so that I could head to the practice sessions. Though the practice was exhausting, I always made sure that I went home on time to study. The two months of practice sessions is something that I look forward to every year. It is fun coming here and sweating it out with other enthusiasts,” Gokhale, a resident of  , said. She recently graduated from the  
 
 Sayali Girdhari, a 25-year-old IT professional, just cannot contain her excitement as she gets ready to play dhol this year — first time for her. Till now she had been among people standing by the side to watch people play dhol. She has been devoting two hours every day to the practice session.
 
 “In the initial days, it is extremely tiring. Your back aches, the right-hand pains and it feels as if your shoulder is about to come off. However, you start enjoying it eventually. It is the passion that draws people to the physically draining practice sessions after a tiring day at the office,” Girdhari said.
 
 She said her appetite has increased after she started taking part in the practice sessions. “I have started eating more since the practice sessions require a lot of energy. But I am not complaining as it is putting me in shape,” Girdhari added.
 
 Isha Pathaki has been a part of Shivwardhan Pathak for the last five years. However, this is the first time that she is attending the practice sessions. 
 
 “I attend practice sessions after work. People think that playing dhol is exhausting. But for me, it is a stress buster,” the 22-year- old resident of Bibvewadi said.
 
 
