LUCKNOW: Several thousand of mourners including both Shia and Sunni Muslims as well as Hindus, lamenting the  , the sacrifice of  , his family and companions commemorated Ashura (the  ) amidst the reverberating chants of Ya Husain in the city on Sunday.

 As the series of Alams (standards symbolic of Hazrat Abbas-Imam Husain's brother and the grandson of Prophet Mohammad) started to be taken out in procession from the historic Nazim Sahab ka Imambara in Nakkhas area, streets across the old city started to swell with people since early morning.
 
 Anjumans (groups reciting Nauhas -elegies) took over the road from Nakkhas till Karbala Talkatora where the procession solemnly culminated by evening. Beating their chests with hands, even blades and swords, performing Matam, mourners walked barefoot from the Imambara to the Karbala wearing black clothes on the day. Women and children also joined the procession that saw many a hundred Hindus and Sunni Muslims being an active part of it.
 
  
  
 
 In another procession that started out from the Shah Najaf Imambara, thousands of Hindu Azadars (mourners of Imam Husain) congregated and took out Tazias (replica of Imam Husain's mausoleum in Karbala, Iraq), resting them finally in soil at the Ghar wali Karbala. During the day, a Hindu religious head, Swami Sarang also performed the Matam by chains as a tribute to Imam Husain.
 
 Sunni Muslims across the city with their own iconic drum beating and chants of Ya Husain took the Tazias from different parts of the city to Nishatganj and Phool Katora for final burial.
 
 Amid the cries of Ya Husain that echoed everywhere, by evening, mourners had their first morsel of food, after observing Faqa, by eating dal and rice, in a ritual called the Faqa Shiqani.
 
  
  
 
 As evening fell, the historic Imambara Ghufranmaab at Victoria Street observed the world renowned Sham-e-Ghareeban majlis reminiscing the time that the women and Imam -Zain-ul-Abidin (fourth Imam of the Shias and son of Imam Husain who was unwell during Karbala) had to go through soon after their family including Imam Husain and children of the household and friends were martyred. After the battle, the camps of the women along the river Euphrates were put on fire and the women robbed off their Hijabs and taken captive.
 
