GURUGRAM: Pradeep Pachauri, who works with a leading two-wheeler manufacturer, was on his way back to home in Sector 10A after dinner in Sector 29, got a pleasant surprise late evening on Saturday. As he reached  , he found the   under the flyover at the crossing open to traffic.

  “I was expecting to travel all the way to Kherki Daula toll plaza (7km from Hero Honda Chowk), take a U-turn, return to Hero Honda Chowk and then turn left to Sector 10A. With the U-turn open, I’ll be saving time and fuel,” said Pachauri, adding it will also reduce pollution as people will not be burning fuel to travel an extra 14km.
 
 He said he had read in newspapers about the possibility of the U-turn being opened, but was not very optimistic. “So when I finally found it open, it came as a pleasant surprise,” said Pachauri.
 
 Sector 9 resident Suresh Sharma said authorities should station traffic marshals at the U-turn to control traffic movement and avoid accidents. “Construction work for the flyover and underpass is still in progress, so it is essential to streamline traffic flow,” said Sharma.
 
 National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials claimed they have taken measures to avoid congestions at the U-turn. “Initially, only small non-commercial vehicles will be allowed,” he said.
 
 NHAI has already opened one side of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover to traffic, on March 27. The other side is likely to be inaugurated by June 30.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said inauguration of the U-turn will provide great relief to people residing in the neighbouring localities. “The flyover will be operational soon. Work on the underpass is also in progress,” he said, adding there will soon be no congestion at Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Every day, over 1 lakh vehicles cross Hero Honda Chowk, of which thousands have to travel an additional 12-14km to take an U-turn. “Along with reduction in travel time, it will also check pollution and fuel consumption,” said environmentalist Amina Shervani.
 
