Mohali: The number of swine flu cases have been spurting in Mohali district as so far five deaths and 42 positive cases have been reported. Four cases of swine flu have been reported in the past one month from Zirakpur area.

 While last year, eight persons were tested positive with three reported deaths, this year the figures have increased five time as so far 193 suspected persons have been tested for swine flu.
 
 However, dengue has led to lesser victimisation this year for around 2000 cases and four deaths in 2016, while 186 cases of dengue have surfaced so far with one death reported.
 
 The authorities have made futile attempts to avoid the spread of H1N1 virus and vector-borne diseases. Sources in civil hospital said the swine flu virus spreads during winter season starting from November to March but this time there has been some change in the virus, which has led to a rise in positive cases. Out of the 42 positive cases of swine flu, around 22 cases involved senior citizens or infants. 
 
 Meanwhile, it was found that maximum cases of dengue were reported from Nayagaon as the figure has crossed 85 so far. While one has died, as many as 186 cases of dengue have been reported from the district so far.
 
 ‘Aedes aegypti’ mosquito was found to be breeding at a high level last year because of low rainfall as the leading reason that caused rise in the humidity level and added to the favourable conditions to their breeding. The cases of malaria have also increased to 44 and more than half of the patients are migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who had come to the district for treatment. Civil surgeon, civil hospital Dr Rita Bhardwaj said regular fogging and spraying have been carried out so that mosquito larvae does not multiply this time.
 
 Senior deputy mayor of Mohali municipal corporation Manjit Singh Sethi said, “Fogging is being done regularly and besides this, challans have also been issued regularly. If people want fogging to be done again in their respective area they can call our helpline number.”
 
 
