Panaji:  , among the favourites to win the   title, are far from buoyant. The 31-time champions take on  , the uncanny force from the North East in the first semifinal on Thursday, but apprehension ahead of what promises to be a feisty encounter comes from the sick bay where four key players are racing against time to be fit enough to take the pitch at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim.
 
  Coach   knows he needs Plan B should the quartet, first-choice players, sit out the match.
  
  These include captain and midfielder Rana Garami nursing a troublesome back, defender Provat Lakra (bruised jaw), Bastanta Singh (ankle) and midfielder Monotosh Chakladar, hit on the quadriceps, in the last match against Meghalaya.
  
  Most disconcertingly for Bengal, Garami and Lakra have been at the heart of the defence that hasn’t conceded a goal in the tournament so far.
  
  “These injuries are setbacks,” said Banerjee. “My physio is working very hard to see that these players are 100 per cent fit to play,” he added.
  
  “It’s really tough when four of your key players are injured especially when it comes to playing a team like Mizoram whose agility and mobility are good,” the coach said.
  
  Bengal will be looking to   and Shaikhom Ronald Singh to fire upfront. If   cannot take the pitch, Banerjee could turn to SK Faiaz, scorer of a late goal against Chandigarh in the opener after emerging from the bench.
  
  After beating Chandigarh 1-0, Bengal registered the same scoreline against Services, dominated against Goa in a goalless draw before sealing top spot in Group ‘A’ with a 2-0 win over Meghalaya.
  
  Mizoram have blown hot and cold, scoring nine goals in four matches but conceding six. After a comprehensive win against Maharashtra (3-1), the 2014 champions played a 0-0 stalemate against Punjab, fell to pieces against Kerala (1-4) but found their footing again in a 5-1 rout of Railways in a winner-take-all game to make the semifinals behind table leaders Kerala.
  
  Lalsangbera Sangbera is likely to relish the prospect of a weakened Bengal defence should injuries have their say. With twin striker Lalrinpuia creating a constant buzz in an around the box and young midfielder Lalrinchhana Rcha in tow, Sankar Roy in the Bengal goal is likely to be stretched to retain his unbeaten record.
  
  Assistant coach Anand Gurung, for one, concurs. “Just like the group stages, we will be courageous against Bengal. They are a good side but we believe we have the capacity to break down their defence,” he said.
