THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In what could be seen as a move to prove that the dissenting opinions of politburo member M A Baby and other leaders on the Mahija assault incident were wrong, the CPM   on Friday issued a statement approving the police action in front of the police headquarters on Wednesday. 

 The incidents that had led to widespread dissent in the society "were part of a contemplated political move hatched by  ," alleged the state secretariat. 
 
 Sources said the statement was issued as chief minister   was upset over the growing criticism within the party on his handling of the police and the views expressed by a senior leaders such as Baby. Though a secretariat meeting was not held to finalize the statement on Friday, those leaders who were in Malappuram for election campaigning discussed among themselves and framed the statement which endorsed that the police actions weren't much out of sync with the LDF policy.
 
 With the blank cheque to police, the   also indirectly endorsed the imprisonment of five activists who took part in the protest and slapping non-bailable charges against them. Interestingly, the statement differs from one of the CPM's founding principles that say justice can be achieved only by continuous mass struggles.
 
 The CPM alleged that the Congress and the BJP were using 'motherhood' as a shield in its fight against the LDF government. "It can't be considered a coincidence that the issue took place on the same day when the state was celebrating the 60th anniversary of the first EMS government. Major leaders of the Congress and the BJP were around. A group of people who were not part of the struggle were also at the spot. Though some in the group tried to annoy the cops, the police showed utmost restraint and acted in tune with the LDF's policy of standing with the victims," the secretariat echoed what chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Malappuram on Thursday.
 
 The CPM recalled that the Pinarayi Vijayan government has initiated a slew of reforms to streamline the functioning of self-financing colleges after Jishnu Pranoy's death. 
 
