VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam and   districts have reported an alarming rise in accident fatalities in the first half of this year, according to information from the   (RTA).

 The two districts have the dubious distinction of topping the state in terms of road accident deaths, despite the number of accidents coming down in both districts. 
 
 According to an RTA report, the rate of road accident deaths rose by 33.33 per cent in Srikakulam district from January to May this year as compared to the corresponding period last year. In Vizianagaram, the growth rate was 30.60 per cent for the same period.
 
 While 126 people died in 469   in Srikakulam in 2016, it was 168 deaths in 430 road accidents in 2017. 
 
 In Vizianagaram, 134 people died in 557 road accidents in 2016, while 175 people died in 527 road accidents in 2017.
 
 “We will study the reasons behind the alarming number of deaths in the road mishaps. We have succeeded in reducing the number of road accidents this year as compared to last year. The number of casualties is sadly not in our hands,” Srikakulam district RTA deputy transport commissioner Ch Sridevi said. 
 
 According to sources, the   (RIMS), the only major government-run hospital-cum-medical college in Srikakulam district, lacks emergency medical treatment facilities to treat major accident cases. Similar is the situation at Vizianagaram’s government hospital.
 
 Should any major mishap occur in Srikakulam district, be it anywhere between Ichchapuram and Ranasthalam on NH-16, victims will have to be rushed to Vizag’s  , which is 100 km from Srikakulam town and nearly 200 km from Ichchapuram. Srikakulam health officials admit to a crippling staff shortage and a lack of infrastructure - twin issues ailing the district’s emergency medical service.
 
 “Yes, we neither have enough manpower or medical equipment at RIMS to treat victims of major road accidents. Neurosurgeons and neurosurgery-related operation systems are required to handle head injury cases. We are failing in this area. We have asked the government to set up the equipment and the process is ongoing,” Srikakulam district medical and health officer S Tirupathi Rao told TOI.
 
