 The ship BW Maple (UK flag), an LPG tanker, rams the petroleum tanker Dawn Kanchipuram (Indian flag) at 17kmph (nine knots), just two nautical miles off the Kamarajar Port at Ennore near Chennai at 4 am on Saturday. The collision ruptures the water ballast tank and a part of the crew cabin, while also snapping the fuel pipeline. Heavy fuel oil begins to leak into the sea even as   officials spring into action. Port claims no damage done to environment. No injury or casualties reported.

 
 
 By afternoon, fishermen in Ennore, Kasimedu and nearby fishing harbours report huge patches of oil slick floating by the seashore. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board reviews damage to environment and marine life. The Indian Coast Guard begins clean-up operations to remove oil slick from the ocean after carrying out an aerial survey. Fishermen stay away from the sea due to the spill.
 
 
 
  After Union minister of state for transport and shipping Pon Radhakrishnan reviews the damage, Ennore port concedes that there were sheens of oil traces after the collision. The Coast Guard removes 5 tonne of thick oil sludge from the Ennore shore at Rama Krishna Nagar Kuppam beach.
 
 
 
 The Coast Guard removes another 15 tonne from the Ennore shore. Clean-up work is also carried out on Marina Beach and in the surrounding shoreline. Coast Guard sprays the biodegradable   dispersant (OSD) at mid-sea in Ennore to neutralise the oil slick, while men at the shore use buckets to scoop out accumulated oil. The Tamil Nadu government says fishing will be affected for 10 days and vows to compensate fishermen.
 
 
 
  The Coast Guard removes another 30 tonne of oil. Ennore port contends that only about two tonne of oil spilled from the collision. The Coast Guard estimates that another 20 tonne of oil still needs to be removed from Ennore shore alone, making it a total of 70 tonne of oil from the spillage. The real number is still to be declared by Ennore port.
 
 
 
 : Coast Guard continues the clean-up operations. The defence ministry invites reporters to travel with Coast Guard officials on a ship from Ennore to Mahabalipuram, on Friday, to review the extent of oil spill. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
