BENGALURU: The jewellery sector, which was recovering from the   slump, has now been hit by  . The grouse is not about the tax rate but the procedural issue related to movement of goods.

 As per the new GST rules, a trader has to generate an e-way bill if heshe wants to move a commodity worth more than Rs 50,000 from one place to the other. According to jewellers, complying with this rule is difficult since gold is a high-value commodity and its trade requires movement of goods to multiple places. Traders say it would be impractical to follow the e-way bill procedure for each and every movement of the commodity. “The concept of e-way bill creates a lot of problems in the jewellery sector. We have conveyed our concerns to the government and we expect the rules to be modified,“ said Nitin Khandelwal, chairman, All-India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation (GJF).
 
 Another concern is related to safety and security. While the industry is seeking exemption from the e-way bill procedure, Khandelawal said the limit should be raised at least to Rs 1.5 crore. “The issue may come up for discussion at the GST Council meeting on August 5,“ said commissioner of commercial taxes Ritvik Ranjanam Pandey . Since movement of goods is to be monitored online in the GST regime, checkposts have been abolished and traders have to generate e-way bill online before sending the commodity , and make the final entry on the commodity reaching the destination. While the government is yet to decide on modalities of the e-way bill, it has deferred its implementation and allowed states to follow the existing system to monitor movement of goods.In  , the commercial tax department has adopted esugam, a digital mode of monitoring goods' movement, and this will continue till the e-way bill is in place.
 
 Jewellers are in a quandary since the industry is not covered under e-sugam in the previous value added tax (VAT) regime, while they are obligated to follow e-way bill procedure in the GST regime.
 
 “There's no clarity as yet whether the sector would be covered under e-way bill or not. We hope the GST Council clarify this soon and till such time, we suggest the jewellers make do with a simple delivery challan ,“ said B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries.
 
 WHAT IS E-WAY BILL?
 
 e-way bill is the digital document a trader has to create online, declaring quantity and value of the commodity before sending it to a destination, both inside and outside the state.The e-way bill is must for movement of goods worth over `50,000. The bill expires in two days if the distance between the origin of goods and destination is less than 100km. The goods must reach in three days if the distance is 500km. The validity period is five days if the distance is up to 1,000k, 10 days for up to 2,000km and 12 days for above 2,000km.
 
 SPECIAL TAX SLAB
 
 Jewellery attracted 2.5% tax that included VAT and excise duty in the previous regime. Now, it has been classified under the special 3% GST slab.
 
 ON RECOVERY MODE
 
 Post-demonetization, business had slumped to 20% due to cash crunch in the market. Vinod Hayagriv, managing director of jewellery chain C Krishnaiah Chetty and Sons, said the sector has recovered to reach over 60%. “It will take a year or so to attain normalcy,“ he added.
 
