NAGPUR: Baljagat Sarvajanik Wachnalaya, Laxmi Nagar, celebrated its   on Saturday. Social worker   and writer Ranjana Pathak were present on the occasion.

 In her speech, Kanchan Gadkari said, “It is important to motivate today’s generation to work towards conservation of  . Baljagat library has been instrumental in generating such interest. Status of the language right now is in a difficult phase. But different mediums such as libraries, cultural events and literature can motivate youngsters to read, and, in turn, make them love Marathi. This generation likes to experiment and it will be of benefit for conservation of the language.”
 
 Pathak, Baljagat’s president Anupama Gijre, secretary Jagdish Suklikar and founder of the organization Shalini Khare were seated on the dais. At the programme, Baljagat library’s child members Sushrut Maste, Yash Yadav and Yashashri Kulkarni delighted the audience with their solo storytelling performances. Elder member Rohini Deshpande expressed her thoughts while Madhuri Ghatwai gave a power-point presentation on the library.
 
 Gadkari further said, “Children have a lot of talent. They have an understanding of Marathi and only need a little push and motivation. To revive Marathi literature, saint literature should be studied in every home. Chapters from Dasbodh, written by sant Ramdas, should be read so that the new generation will ask questions. This will help create interest in them about the language.”
 
 Pathak said, “We are on the threshold of digital revolution. Attractive audiovisual mediums are reducing the interest and joy of reading. Youngsters today are indulging in plain entertainment. Due to its over-consumption, creativity among children can possibly reduce. Classical art and writing have witnessed important contributions which are available to us. Making kids aware of it is the duty of elders, parents and teachers. Creative thoughts are important for children’s growth.” 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Khare recalled some of the memories related to the library.
 
 Sayli Maste presented Saraswati Vandana while Jaya Maste gave the introduction speech. Kavita Bhopale anchored the programme. 
 
