PATNA: The Bagmati Sangharsh Morcha ( ), which has been spearheading a local movement against the extension of the old right and left embankments of   along its downstream for the last five years in five districts, has now decided to organize state-level ‘jansunwaee (public hearing)’ in the state capital on the overarching theme of utility of the old and new Bagmati embankments concerned for farmers and the local environment.
 
  The Bagmati originates in Nepal and passes through Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur and Khagaria districts before merging into the Ganga near Khagaria. The state water resources department ( ) is seized with the construction of the new left and right embankments along the flanks of the downstream of Bagmati, but the five-year popular protests under the aegis of BMS has resulted in the stalling of the construction of the new embankments.
  
  The public hearing would be organized at Indian Medical Association (IMA) Hall on March 29 in which well-known experts on embankment and north   river systems, as well as water activists associated with social movement for the incessant flow of the north Bihar rivers would participate, said BMS convener Jitendra Yadav. They would deliberate on the agricultural and environmental losses suffered by farmers from the old Bagmati embankments, and also on the new set of losses that would result if the new embankments are constructed.
  
  The public hearing has gained significance because the state WRD recently organized a two-day meet of experts on the theme ‘Incessant Ganga’ and problems faced by Bihar in its Gangetic basin arising from the construction and commissioning of Farakka barrage in the mid-1970s.
  
  Those who would deliberate at the BMS meet include well-known river expert Dinesh Kumar Mishra, river expert and social activist Manas Bihari Verma, former senior teacher from   (Patna) Prof Santosh Kumar, water activist Ranjeev Kumar, Ganga Mukti Andolan (GMA) activist Anil Prakash and CPI (ML) politburo member Dhirendra Jha.
  
  Yadav said with the construction of the embankments, hundreds of villages have continued to suffer annual inundation and destruction of arable land due to deposits of sand from the early 1960s. The construction of the new set of left and right Bagmati embankments would further devastate 130 villages and arable land between the two embankments, he added.
  
  Yadav, who was accompanied by water activist Ranjeev Jha and BMS coordinator at Patna Santosh Sahar, said BMS has been demanding constitution of a high-level committee to submit its holistic report on the utility of the old Bagmati embankments, and also of the proposed new embankments, but the state government has ignored it. In the meantime, the construction company has tried to resume work in fits and starts, but would always withdraw under popular protests.
  
  Yadav said the assessment of the high-level committee would put the actual prevailing situation in right perspective. Muzaffarpur DM has already submitted its report, noting that the construction of the two new embankments would not serve any purpose, he said.
