SHIMLA: Residents and tourists reaching Shimla may get some relief from the parking chaos in the coming years as Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) will be spending Rs 80.5 crore on constructing parking lots in the town which it received from the Centre under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) in February 2 meeting held in Delhi.

  Pankaj Rai presented State Annual Action Plan (SAAP) in Delhi which got the Union government’s approval and hence received funds too. “We did quite well among representatives from nine other states in which only three states’ annual action plan got approved including  . On February 2, the Centre approved funds of Rs 114.96 crore for Himachal in which Kullu received Rs 34.9 crore and Shimla received Rs 80.47 crore which these two districts will utilize on development in 2017-18,” Rai said.
 
 Under Amrut, till now state has received total funds of around Rs 304.52 crore in which district Shimla has received around Rs 238.44 crore and Kullu has received around Rs 66.08 crore. In next two years, state will receive more funds if the next SAAPs too get approval in time.
 
 He said SMC had received Rs 88 crore in 2015-16, Rs 79 crore in 2016-17 and Rs 88 crore in 2017-18. SMC has prepared detailed project reports (DPRs) of previous two years’ funds which are already approved by the state-level technical committee, in which they had floated tenders of Rs 40 crore of which Rs 26 crore have been awarded on improvement of water supply, changing obsolete water pipelines of the town and repairing sewerage treatment plants, while rest of the funds too will be invested in changing pipelines of Gumma source, Craignano to Sanjauli, and Sanjauli to Boileauganj pipelines. 
 
 “This year’s funds will be spent on constructing parking lots at Totu, Chhota Shimla, near Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, near Snow View colony, at Dhali and one in Boileauganj. All new parking lots will accommodate around 3,000 vehicles,” he added.
 
 Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan said, “We will also spend the funds on providing parking facility to people, improving transportation system of the town, construction of paths and public parks,” he added. 
 
