The state is still reeling under the nightmare of the recent suicides triggered because of exam results. Taking this seriously, in a bid to reduce the mounting   on students,   (MPBSE) has decided to revise the course for board exam classes. The MPBSE Chairman has declared a ‘favourite five policy’ for 10th board students. In a statement, Chairman SR Mohanty said, “The   policy which will be implemented from the next session and will facilitate students in obtaining a pass certificate for their final  . The passing marks will be calculated on the basis of percentage obtained from the five highest scores from the six subjects they have. So, if a student were to fail in a particular subject, he/she will still be promoted to the next grade based on the passing marks acquired from the remaining five. This move might help students cope better with the pressure of exam results.”
 
 
 Supporting the decision taken by the MPBSE DR Yogita Jauhari, a school principal shares, “The government has already been doing quite a lot to ease the anxiety that students go through. Recently, Dalai Lama was called to address students and talk about dealing with pressure which was a much appreciated move. Best of five would further strengthen the mission of the government, which is to increase the happiness quotient in the state. However, if we talk about discarding one subject, then it probably would be one of the languages that students might give less importance to.”
 
 
 On the same subject, Sharda Rathore, a teacher who has been in the field of education for 50 years shares, “Students may also choose other subjects over social studies, since social has four subjects and scholars find the subject heavy. Our endeavour as teachers would be to teach students all subjects with the same dedication. This way they would attend classes to absorb what is being delivered rather than mugging-up for scoring well.”
 
 
 The motive behind ‘best of five’
 
 After considering the suicides that followed the declaration of MP Board exam results, the MPBSE organised a meeting of state government officials where the idea of introducing the policy of best of five subjects was proposed and unanimously accepted. The policy will be implemented from the next session and it will be up to the discretion of the students to select the five subjects of their choice. Most of the students face problems in subjects like English and Maths. According to the data provided by the board, 49 per cent and 25 per cent students have failed in English and Maths respectively. The new rule also aims at increasing the overall result of the state. 
  
 What the students say
 
 A statement from Mohanty which said students will have complete discretion over the choice of subjects has brought about a wide smile on students' faces. We got in touch with a few of them who just appeared for their board exams, to know if given a chance, which subject would they pick or drop. Here is what they had to say:
 
 
 “Given a choice, I would drop Mathematics without giving it a second thought. Pythagoras can rest peacefully without being hated by students.” 
 – Shreeya Agarwal
 
 
 “I would choose English, Maths, Social science, Science and Sanskrit. I will definitely drop Hindi, as we don’t get good scores with two literature subjects.” 
 – Ritesh Sahotiya
 
 
 “I would love to have customised options! If we are allowed to drop History from Social Science and Physics from Science it would be wonderful!” 
 – Abhimanyu Pandey
 
 
 “I wish this option existed for us, I would have definitely dropped Mathematics. That is one subject that pulls down my score and sometimes I don’t even see the point in spending so much effort on a subject which I’m sure would not be helpful in my career of mass communication.” 
 – Shruti Gaur
 
