BENGALURU: Shivarama Reddy, 30, who was shot at by cops, had allegedly   from Delhi in a   facility near   on March 2, police said.

 Reddy returned to the locality three days later and barged into another PG facilty located 500 metres away, where he attacked a woman from Mumbai and fled with her phone. On Tuesday, he was shot at and injured by a police party pursuing him near Marathahalli on Outer Ring Road.
 
 In the wee hours of March 5, Reddy entered the PG room with a knife. Before allegedly assaulting the Mumbai woman, he threatened her saying her friends in other rooms were being raped by his accomplices. A case of rape was filed with HAL police station, and inspector Sadiq Pasha said the suspect was Shivarama Reddy. 
 
 In a letter to the police commissioner, the Mumbai woman said Pasha met her in a cafe. He showed her a photograph, asking her if she was attacked by the same person. “I identified the molester. Pasha said the photograph is two years old and he (Reddy) is a psycho. He has committed the same crime a couple of times,” she wrote in the letter.
 
 The woman’s lettter describes how the intruder threatened her with rape, touched her inappropriately and attacked her with a knife, injuring her in the hand. However, HAL police booked a case of extortion against unidentified suspects. An additional FIR was booked in the case only on Monday, when charges of sexual assault and criminal intimidation were added.
 
 
 
 
 Reddy, a cabbie from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, has been a resident of Hoskote for 15 years. He had targeted a girl from Bihar at a PG accommodation in Electronics City in a similar manner in 2014. He was arrested and released on bail on December 16, 2016.
 
 Reddy is an accused in 16 cases, of which four are sexual assaults. An investigator said he came out of jail hardly two months ago, and this was the second case of sexual assault he was involved in within a week. 
 
 
 
 
 The cop’s decision of not naming him (the accused), not converting her complaint to an FIR and not booking him under sexual assault in the FIR shows he was trying to hide information
 
 -A friend of the woman
 
 
