HYDERABAD: Pet owners have to pay more for   now as the   has hiked with effect from Tuesday the charges for various   offered at its super speciality veterinary hospital at Narayanaguda and two other hospitals at Bhoiguda and Rajendernagar. 

 The rate for major surgeries has been hiked from 200 to 500. Likewise, the charges for other services like minor surgeries, ultra sound scanning, examination under anaesthesia to name a few have been hiked. 
 
 Even the anti-rabies vaccine, which used to be given free of cost, will now be given on payment of 20. What's more, the registration charges of 20 which were valid for a week earlier have now been revised and people have to pay 20 towards registration for every visit. 
 
 There was a mixed response from pet owners with some of them saying private veterinary hospitals charge about 5,000 per major surgery and that the enhanced 500 is acceptable, while few others said 500 is a big amount for the pet owners from economically weak sections. 
 
 "The purpose of setting up a government veterinary hospital gets defeated when treatment charges are collected. Actually, it should be free of cost. The state government had started collecting minimum charges for surgeries in 2012 in the name of extending super speciality services. Now, it has enhanced the rates of every treatment offered at the super speciality hospital at Narayanaguda. Those who are rich will any way go to private veterinary hospitals but those animal lovers who are from economically weaker sections will find it difficult to pay even 200," said Veer Raghuveer Yadav, owner of three pet dogs. 
 
 Dr B Bhagavan Reddy of   told TOI that on an average, 150 cases are reported at the hospital every day with most of them being dogs (90 per cent) and the remaining cats. "We have specialised doctors in the medicine wing, surgery, gynaecology and lab wing. It is a paid hospital. The charges hiked would not be sufficient to even meet the sanitation maintenance expenditure of the hospital," he said. 
 
 
