NAGPUR: Seeking intervention of government over parents being forced to purchase books from schools, members of Shaikshanik Sahitya Vikreta Sangathna (Nagpur branch) met district collector Sachin Kurve on Tuesday.

 Business of booksellers and publishers is in doldrums due to monopoly of private schools in selling uniforms, books and stationery from selected outlets or on campus, said members in a press conference at   on Tuesday.
 
 District president and founder of Vijay Book Depot, Vijay Kumar Jain, said, “The collector has shown concern regarding the matter and has assured action against it.” Jain informed that state president Nana Kamble from Sangli will be meeting CM   within this week on the issue.
 
 Jain’s son Anuj said, “As per the circular issued by   in April 2017, and state government’s order in 2004, schools are strictly prohibited from indulging in any commercial activities directly or indirectly. Inspite of this, school are openly practicing it.”
 
 Anuj said, “When schools buy books in bulk, they obviously get a sizeable discount and ideally they should sell books to students at a lower rate. But, they choose to make a profit and fill their pockets.”
 
 About the alleged nexus between schools and private publishers, he added, “The information about stationery and book list is to be provided to publishers in December so that we can stock them. But school officials claim that the list isn’t ready and end up revealing it to merely a particular publisher and get a hefty commission. This is extremely unfair.”
 
 Secretary Ashish Deshkar said, “By levying monthly fees of Rs7-8,000, school education is becoming an ugly business with corruption. They want profit from each student and don’t wish to compromise on making money. They also change the prescribed books every year. This makes it mandatory for parents to make a fresh purchase for their younger child even if they have a book in good condition which they bought for the elder one.”
 
 CBSE by-laws do not ban use of private publishers book but a recent circular was misinterpreted by many, including the state education department. CBSE merely asks that schools use NCERT books as far as possible.
 
 Also, CBSE officials told TOI that sale of books or uniform on campus is an issue if it is forced or made mandatory. The central board wants parents to have complete freedom in buying these things from the open market, while the on campus stall can be an additional option or facility for parents.
 
 
