JAIPUR: The two-day   of the   concluded on Sunday. At a press conference at the end,  , party in-charge of Rajasthan, called on the government to   to relieve distress caused by inability to sell   in the wake of violence unleashed by so called 'gau rakshaks'. 

 "For thousands of years, farmers in the country have been selling old cattle to get younger ones that are more productive. This trade has now been affected because of the large number of attacks on cattle traders. The farmer will maintain his milch animals and those that are productive. But what will he do with unproductive animals? It would drain his resources to feed them and keep them alive. The Swaminathan Committee had recommended that crops should fetch 50% more than the cost of production, but the minimum support prices the government announces often do not even cover cost."
 
 Union agriculture minister Raja Mohan Singh has said that the Centre cannot offer 50% profit over input costs to farmers, even though this was part of BJP election manifesto ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 Mollah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had proven the "biggest enemy" of farmers. Suicides by farmers had gone up 36% in the three years that Modi has been in power, he said. 
 
 Mollah also expressed concern that the government offered no compensation to the kin of Pehlu Khan, killed by so called gau rakshaks in Alwar district. "The CPM has started a campaign and is collecting money. On May 24, at a meeting at Khan's village in Haryana, the money collected - which we expect to be over Rs 5 lakh - will be handed over to the victims. These attacks on farmers transporting cows come not merely as a communal matter, but as an attack on the agrarian economy," Mollah said.
 
 The senior CPI-M leader said in the matter of job creation too, the government has failed to fulfil election promises - two crore new jobs were promised each year, but not even a fraction of that has actually been achieved. Mollah said representatives from across the state also brought to his notice the rising instances of communal tension. 
 
 In Bundi, some people attempted to build a temple in close proximity to an old mosque, fostering animosity. In Hanumangarh, at Gogamedi village, people were incited by RSS men who spread rumours that a small temple had been demolished by Muslims. The demolition was in fact undertaken by the district administration.
 
 Mollah said the CPM would undertake a campaign across the state between May 22 and May 27 to press for its demands - give farmers remunerative prices for their crops, punish those behind the attacks like the one on Pehlu Khan, restore the public distribution system, create employment in urban and rural areas and make timely payments under MGNREGA, and prevent rampant privatization, which dealt a death blow to employment and also robbed Scheduled Casts and Tribes and Other Backward Classes of reservation in jobs.
 
 
