CHENNAI: Sundaram Finance Limited (SFL) board on Friday said that it plans to demerge the non-financial services investments of SFL into a wholly owned subsidiary, Sundaram Finance Investments Limited (SFIL).

 SFIL is likely to list on the stock exchanges after the demerger, subject to necessary approvals from regulators and shareholders. SFL Group -- which has subsidiaries in vehicle. home financing, mutual funds, general insurance and financial services distribution -- reported a revenue of Rs 5,035 crore and profit of Rs 583 crore, as of March 31, 2016.
 
 Total assets stood at Rs 28,027 crore and the company has an estimated net-worth of Rs 4,195 crore.
 
 In the last six decades, SFL has invested in various non-financial services businesses, including several investments in automotive and manufacturing businesses as a co-promoter along with TVS group companies. 
 
 "Significant investments include listed companies such as Sundaram Clayton, Wheels India, IMPAL and private entities like Brakes India, Turbo Energy. The cumulative investment in these companies (in book value terms) has grown to over Rs 150 crore in FY16 from Rs 23 crore in FY06 and has yielded a cumulative dividend of Rs 199 crore in just the last 5 years," said the company in a press release.
 
 As per the proposal, all shareholders of SFL would receive one share of SFIL free of cost for every share held in SFL as on the record date. The appointed date for the scheme is April 1, 2016. 
 
 As a promoter, SFL would hold 26.47% stake in SFIL and the balance 73.53% will be issued to all shareholders of SFL.
 
 “Over the years, our investments in the manufacturing and automotive sectors have not only yielded significant returns, but also demonstrated a strong track record of value creation. We will continue to explore non-financial services investments out of SFIL, both in manufacturing companies and elsewhere. Most importantly, Sundaram Finance’s balance sheet and capital adequacy will remain robust post-demerger and we will continue to seek growth opportunities in the financial services landscape,” said TT Srinivasaraghavan, managing director, SFL.
 
 
