SHIMLA: With the mobile and internet technology penetrating even in the remotest corner of the hill state of Himachal, political parties have taken poll campaign to   platforms by making optimum use of social networking applications and sites like Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter.

 The sitting MLAs and incumbent ministers are not the only ones but even the first time ticket seekers are staking claims by posting the pictures and videos of their public meetings.
 
 In order to eke out a win in the fierce battle that is days ahead, BJP and   election handling teams have turned up the heat by setting up IT cells in control rooms to handle the social media accounts. Sources said that BJP has formed a team of 15 volunteers to handle its IT Cell at state party office.
 
 BJP has also appointed one convener (IT) each in the 7,479 booths across the state to ensure maximum reach, sources added.
 
 Congress too has geared up its social media team and on Sunday, the party organized a workshop for district and block level social media in charges to inform them so as to how to spearhead campaign for coming days. In this workshop, state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu was also present.
 
 Earlier, social media had little or no impact on the politics of Himachal Pradesh due to limited access of technology in major towns only.
 
 But now, the scenario has changed as telecom giants after an aggressive business war have not only expanded the connectivity but also lowered the regular prices to make internet accessible to common people.
 
 The most active politicians on social media platforms are chief minister  , leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal, transport minister  , urban development minister Sudhir Sharma, industries minister Mukesh Agnihotri and Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari.
 
 Those in power are pursuing voters educating them about developmental work carried by them during their regime while those in opposition are questioning and attacking the Congress government.
 
 Even the aspirants from remote areas of Lahaul-Spiti, Pangi-Bharmaur and Kinnaur are using it to showcase their popularity in a bid to strengthen their claim for the ticket. In 2014 parliamentary election, social media had played a key role in BJP’s poll campaign to reach out to the young voters.
 
