VISAKHATANAM: To promote eco-friendly, cheaper and hassle free, independent mode of transport, a public bicycle sharing system is to be put in place in the three cities of Andhra Pradesh including Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and the capital region development area (CRDA) whereby using a swipe card or a subscriber code on phone, cycles can be released from bike stations automatically. By 2017, Vizag will be AP’s first city to get such bike stations.

 In this regard, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was inked by the Government of AP and the  , in the recently-concluded CII Partnership Summit. The number of bike stations to be set up in each city as well as total number of cycles in each station would be determined by the density of population and public demand. Around 20-50 cycles would be placed in each station.
 
 Elaborating on the project, DV Manohar, chairman of   and chairman of All India Bicycling Federation, said, “Already a demo bike station terminal has been put up at Nagole in Hyderabad. In fact, 300 bike stations have been planned for Hyderabad too out of which three are ready. In AP, we will begin with Vizag and put up 20-25 stations with plans to start the first station on   this year. The project cost for AP would be around Rs 100 crore and in 2017, around Rs 10 crore would be spent.”
 
 Imported bicycles would be attached to docks in the bike stations. Using swipe card and subscriber code on phone, these can be unlocked and released from docks for use. 
 
 “Even though there has not been any financial commitment from the government, we are hopeful of support in the initial phases. Later, funds can be raised locally under CSR activity. The government is mentoring the public bike sharing project. MoU with the commissioner of APCRDA and municipal commissioners of Kakinada and Vizag have been inked. They would provide us required small pieces of land in different areas of the cities to set up the bike stations. We would also have to build cycling tracks and raise public awareness,” added Manohar.
 
