JAIPUR: If all goes well,  ,   or marble slurry will be a thing of past in the state with the   ( ) setting up first of its kind in the country a ‘centre of excellence’ for skill development in environmental engineering. The centre is aimed at providing knowledge and training to a cross spectrum of subjects of relevance in the field of environmental management and abatement of pollution.

 On Tuesday, a tripartite agreement to set up the centre was signed between the RSPCB, Institute of Leadership Development (ILD) and Department of Skills, Employment and  , government of Rajasthan. An MoU was also signed wherein the RSPCB will set up the college of environment for which necessary space would be provided by ILD in its campus spanning 33 acres at Jamdoli, Jaipur. Chipping in its bit, the skill development department will help in getting the courses approved as well as share the database of students.
 
 “The ‘centre of excellence’ will enable the state fill in the void for skilled manpower in environmental engineering to abate and recycle medical, municipal and hazardous waste. The centre will run training and certification programmes, national and international workshops and conferences, research and development. In the first phase manpower would be trained in running the STP and CETP plants optimally and scientifically, for which the faculty has been identified,” said K S A Arun Prasad, member secretary, RSPCB.
 
 “Waste management is one of the focus areas of RSPCB. Many of the waste streams have increased in volumes over time and the waste characteristics are becoming complex. Solutions based solely on treatment or the ‘end of the pipe’ are not going to be sustainable. Some of the waste streams have excellent recycling and recovery potential. This can reduce the consumption of virgin resources resulting thereby, ecological footprint and reduced GHG emissions,” said Prasad.
 
 Further in due course of time the centre would also set up sub-centres in climate change, policy research in environmental management, spatial environmental planning and promotion of green business.
 
 In view of the above and aligning with the present start-up policy of the state, the RSPCB has also launched a start-up scheme to promote entrepreneurship as well as investments in the waste sector focusing on 3 Rs’ (reduce, recycle and recover). The board has also approved the start-up policy with a corpus fund of Rs 5 crore whereby it will grant in aid up to Rs 25 lakh to start-ups working in the field of waste to resource. One of the targets will be enthusing the youth and involving women in this endeavour.
 
 “RSPCB intends to seek participation of community-based organizations and private sectors (entrepreneurs and investors) to promote such approaches so as to demonstrate the success on a commercial basis for further replication and up scaling,” said Prasad.
 
 Besides, in the light of deteriorating air quality, the board also signed an MoU with IIT-Kanpur for carrying out ‘Air quality assessment, trend analysis, emission inventory and source apportionment study’ in Jaipur.
 
 
