PUNE: Dumping garbage in the city limits will prove costly for the fringe villages with the   proposing to impose a fine of Rs 1 lakh on them in the newly constituted ‘Health and Sanitation Guidelines 2017’.

 “The law has given power to the local self-governing bodies for charging the fine. Changes in municipal bylaws would be made to make this fine effective. The civic body members will have to give a green signal to this proposal,” said Suresh Jagtap, the head of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s solid waste management department.
 
 He said the proposal had been sent to the standing committee. The decision on it would be taken in the next meeting.
 
 The civic activists feel that implementing the proposal would not be an easy task. “The history of the government body shows that it has not been able to fine and deter citizens of Pune from dumping garbage in the city areas. Bringing discipline in the village government bodies will be next to impossible for the PMC,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group.
 
 According to PMC officials, these villages dump 15 tonnes of garbage in the open every day. The responsibility of disposing it of is of local bodies of the villages. But it appears they are not doing it. This (open dumping of garbage) poses health risk to citizens, they stressed.
 
 PMC had stopped dumping waste at the garbage depot at Uruli-Phursungi after a major fire broke out and spread over five acers in summer. Villagers had vehemently opposed the dumping, too.
 
 The villagers allowed the corporation resume garbage dumping at Uruli-Devachi after an assurance from the chief minister. He had asked the civic administration to draft a comprehensive plan on garbage disposal.
 
 The plan was drafted after deliberations of two weeks and submitted to the mayor’s office in May. The problem of villages dumping garbage in the city limits had surfaced then.
 
 PMC in May had issued notices to the local governing bodies. It has planned to file criminal offences against the Gramsevaks of these villages if the situation did not improve soon.
 
 Burdened with tonnes of garbage, the civic body has appointed squads to stop fringe villages from dumping trash in PMC limits. Notices were served to Dhayari, Narhe, Ambegaon and Nanded.
 
 
