GURUGRAM: Demanding immediate arrests in the   of the 55-year-old father of a rape accused, residents of Mohammadpur Ahir village blocked the Tauru-Naurangpur road for five hours on Thursday.

 Ramniwas’s body was found off the KMP expressway near the Mohammadpur Ahir village on February 10 after he allegedly went missing for a day. Ramniwas’s son   is among the four accused who were identified by the police for murdering a farmer and his wife last year in the neighbouring   village, and raping his two nieces, one of them a minor, during an alleged robbery bid.
 
 After his body was recovered, Ramniwas’s family members kept his body on the Bilaspur-Tauru road on the same day and blocked the traffic till afternoon, demanding an immediate response from the police. At least 10 people were named in the FIR for murdering Ramniwas. The family members said he was killed to avenge the Dingerheri attack. The police had assured that the accused would be arrested within next three days, however, no arrests have been made so far.
 
 Upset over police inaction, the villagers again gathered near the Chaupal at around 10am on Thursday. Later, they blocked the road demanding arrest of accused.
 
 A team of police officials later rushed to the spot and tried to convince the villagers, however, sarpanch   asked the cops to call the SP and DC.
 
 SP Kuldeep Singh and DC Mani Ram Sharma reached the protest venue five hours later and assured the villagers that the accused will be arrested by next Tuesday. The protesters, however, threatened to resume the protest if they fail the promise.
 
 “Thirteen days after the murder, police are only giving hollow assurances, and they have not even identified any accused. We want justice without any further delay,” said Sumitra, wife of the deceased.
 
 “We are investigating the case. Two suspects were detained and their polygraph test was conducted, however, the report is awaited. All the accused will be arrested soon,” said Kuldeep Singh, SP, Nuh.
 
 
