MUMBAI: Ever since the   came out with its January 2 order in the matter pertaining to the   ( ), office-bearers ­ eligible and ineligible both ­ continued to remain confused over the specifics of cumulative tenure that may be applicable to them hereafter.

 The order limits the cumulative tenure of an office-bearer in Indian cricket administration to nine years. It is in contrast to the July 18, 2016 order that stated that the cumulative tenure would be limited to nine plus nine years (nine years in BCCI and nine years in respective state association).
 
 As the SC gears up to hear the matter once again on Friday afternoon, the onus will be on the bench to clarify whether the January order should be referred to hereafter, or the one that was brought out last year in July . The court is hearing the matter today to announce the appointment of a new set of administrators who will run the BCCI until fresh elections are held. It is very likely that Mukul Mudgal, former judge of the Delhi High Court, will be part of the new administration panel along with former top bureaucrat  , ex-CAG   and former India all-rounder  .
 
 Barring Mudgal, the rest of the names were suggested to the SC bench by the court-appointed amicus curiae and senior counsel Gopal Subramanium in the previous hearing, and also had the support of the Justice RM Lodha Committee.
 
 If Mudgal comes on board, he will bring with him a legal perspective to the BCCI affairs.
 
 Some office-bearers of the board ­ now rendered ineligible by the SC ­ are irked with the last set of FAQs that were posted by the Lodha Committee. Among other things, the FAQs specifically state that neither the association nor the board can nominate an ineligible office-bearer to BCCI or any other meeting.
 
 As the matter comes up for hearing, and with close to four associations filing separate petitions in the court, it is likely that a clarification could be sought from the apex court on the FAQs. Meanwhile, the new set of administrators will have quite a task on hand. To list out a few key aspects of their responsibilities, they will first have to call for a general body meeting of BCCI members to see if there's a 23rds majority in implementing the Lodha Committee recommendations.
 
 That aside, the CEO of the board, Rahul Johri, will look forward to these new administrators to green light work on the 2017 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL).
 
 While the dates for the IPL were announced on Thursday ­ from April 5 to May 21­ massive amount of work is pending with regards to various contracts that need to be given out. That aside, jersey rights of the Indian cricket team are also up for renewal and the new administrators will have to give ensure as soon as possible that formalities are concluded in time for the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy .
 
 
