NEW DELHI: Welcome to Loknayakpuram, a blue gate says brightly at Bakkarwala near Najafgarh in west Delhi. In the distance you can see the typical skyline of a Delhi Development Authority colony with its rows of pink and pale yellow  . As you near the apartments, you run into an assembly of people around a private water tanker that has “On duty, DDA” painted on it. People holding plastic buckets, cans, even bottles have gathered there.

 Amitabh Ranjan, a Pocket A resident of Loknayakpuram, explained the ritual: “Our’s is a five-storey building, but we do not have water supply. People ferry water from the two tankers that stop every day near the reservoir.” There was frustration as Ranjan added, “It is a   living here. But what can we do having invested our life earnings in these houses?”
 
 After almost a decade of waiting, taps in the flats at three of the five pockets have started spewing out water. This itself took a prolonged struggle, including complaining several times to the then lieutenant governor Najeeb Jung. But, residents of pockets A and C are yet to get water supply directly in their kitchens.
 
 “DDA says it is repairing the water pipelines in the A and C pockets. But it has gone on for six months and they haven’t fixed the problem,” said Ranjan, a resident here for eight years. The officials, on their part, claim that Delhi Jal Board hasn’t laid the water pipelines to supply to the command tank. Till that happens, supply can only be through water tankers, a   official said.
 
 The colony was developed by DDA in the early 2000s, but even today lacks not only water supply, but also proper roads, a shopping centre, schools and a medical care centre. First put up on sale in the 2006 auction, 403 LIG flats that didn’t find buyers, a majority of them in Pocket A, have been listed for the latest scheme.
 
 It is likely buyers will be put off by the deplorable condition of the houses. “The walls have developed cracks, sewers are overflowing, the storm water drains are not covered properly, among other things,” pointed out  , president of Pocket B2 RWA. DDA will carry out basic repairs on the 403 flats, and as an official informed, it will also look at the problems in all the pockets.
 
 The main road connecting Loknayakpuram with west Delhi is riddled with potholes. The lanes linking the various pockets are no less. “South Delhi Municipal Corporation is responsible for the colony roads, while the main road come under DDA’s care,” said Pocket A resident Seema Singh. “Both are in pathetic condition.”
 
 Commuting is a big problem not only due to the decrepit lanes, but also because no buses ply near the colony. “We depend totally on private vehicles and e-rickshaws,” said Deepa, who studies in Nangloi. And since the shopping complex is non-functional, residents have to go long distances for basic needs. “There is, however, a liquor vend operating from the shopping complex,” said Alok Choudhary, treasurer of Pocket D RWA.
 
 Allotted in 2006, the occupancy rate at Loknayakpuram is a poor 30-35%, according to a DDA official, who concedes that the dismal state of civic infrastructure is the main reason for so few flats being occupied. And the property rate continues to drop. “I bought the flat for Rs 17 lakh. I want to sell the flat because the area is not
 
 safe for my kids, but I’m
 
 not even getting the price I paid a decade ago,” said Anand Kushwa.
 
 Senior officials visited the area on Monday to assess the situation. “We are trying to fix the water problem,” asserted JP Agarwal, principal commissioner, land disposal and housing, DDA. “We are trying to ensure that DJB supply starts before we give possession of the 403 flats.”
 
 
