MUMBAI: The   administration may have to knock the doors of the   very soon in the backdrop of a fast-growing threat to the   ( ). Those working on the 10th edition of the league say “there is a serious attempt -on part of state associations -to sabotage the tournament“.

 TOI had reported last week that state associations were looking to write to the BCCI administrators, specifically notifying them that they would not be able to part the infrastructure for the multimillion dollar tournament if the Board failed to pay them the stipulated fee per IPL game.
 
 One state association -Saurashtra -has already written to the BCCI in this regard. Three other state associations are busy playing the wait and watch game for now. The BCCI, on the other hand, is sweating, knowing that irrespective of all the ugly battles that have been fought in the Indian cricket administration so far, the IPL is a property that cannot be tinkered with. A top official in the know of things said “a senior ex-administrator (of BCCI) has been on call with state associations, asking them to come together to sabotage the tournament“.
 
 This senior administrator, on the other hand, categorically says that he has nothing to do with the BCCI anymore and is not interested in offering any service or doing any disservice to the game. “I'm out of all this,“ he said.
 
 The BCCI, therefore, is convinced that its only option going forward is to have the SC to draw a fresh line for state associations to follow where the IPL is concerned.
 
 BCCI's dilemma lies strangely connected with two state associations -Delhi and Hyderabad -who happen to be in absolutely poor financial health. Delhi & Districts Cricket Association ( ) is currently being administered by a court-appointed interim body while the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) election results -held back by the High Court -are likely to be announced on Wednesday .
 
 “DDCA and HCA will not cause any trouble, but they don't have the money . Now, if BCCI ends up paying those two, then they will have to pay the others also. It'll be against the orders of the court,“ says a source in the know of things.
 
 An option for the BCCI here could be to set up an escrow account for hosting of IPL and ask state associations to directly bill the invoices to the Board. “That's easier said than done, unless the SC categorically mentions it,“ adds the source.
 
 Those in the know of things say the BCCI is unlikely to face any trouble from the state associations of Mumbai, Bengal and Punjab either.
 
 As on Tuesday night, four franchises said that they had not heard anything from the state associations so far -neither positive nor a negative feedback -and “everything appears to be fine at the moment“.
 
 
