Hyderabad: The   on Monday accused chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his government of trying to make the   issue a civilian versus TJAC fight and claimed that the conspiracy was unmasked after both groups — one demanding the shifting of the   venue and the other seeking its retention — were allowed to go ahead with their protest at the same time, resulting in the unfortunate incident on Monday.

 Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the ruling TRS sent party workers camouflaged as local residents to protest for retention of Dharna Chowk. The group also included a large number of police personnel in mufti acting like residents from nearby areas. It was these people who instigated the TJAC and activists of Left parties, he alleged. 
 
 “The fact that such a large number of people, including activists and workers of various political parties, thronged Dharna Chowk reflects the growing discontent among the people against the KCR-led government. Out of fear that this growing disconnect would be exposed if the TJAC meeting is allowed, the TRS resorted to such a mean conspiracy of instigating the local residents against TJAC and other political parties,” he said.
 
 Stating that the TRS government wants to shift Dharna Chowk to a place far away from the reach of the common man, Uttam Kumar condemned the ‘police and government’ action. The government and the police should protect the lives and properties of the people, but here they resorted to some other tactics. 
 
 “It is crushing the democratic right of the people to protest. Dharna Chowk has been here for a long time, why are the colony residents raising the issue now? In the past, the Musheerabad BJP MLA had held talks with residents and said there was no problem,” the TPCC chief said.
 
 The Congress took out a rally from Gandhi Bhavan to Dharna Chowk with MLAs Jeevan Reddy, D K Aruna, Ram Mohan Reddy, Vamshi Chand Reddy, former minister Sunitha Lakshma Reddy, Mallu Ravi and former MP V Hanumanth Rao participating and spitting fire against the KCR government for its anti-people policies.
 
 
