PATNA: Opposition’s presidential pick   has described her electoral fight with NDA nominee   as a contest between two ideologies — communalism and secularism.
 
  The former Lok Sabha Speaker was interacting with Bihar’s ruling Congress and RJD legislators at a posh hotel in Patna on Thursday, ten days before the election is to be held on July 17. The other ruling ally, JD (U), has announced support to Kovind.
  
  “Our country is standing at the crossroads... There’s complete darkness on one side where people are being divided on religious and caste lines and the poor being suppressed for political advantage. We (read the parties supporting her) are on the other side, trying to help the suppressed sections. This is what we have been doing since ages,” she said, alleging people today were afraid of even walking beside a cow.
  
  Thanking RJD chief   who was the first politician after Congress president Sonia Gandhi to call her, Meira said he told her about his support. “I knew he would support me for I have seen him lead the people of Bihar in stalling nefarious attempts to communalise the country in the past,” she said and hoped history would be repeated with her win.
  
  Meira regretted that the presidential election was being projected as a dalit versus dalit contest. “I cannot imagine caste becoming important in the 21st century,” she said and added it was high time things like caste and creed were buried for good.
  
  Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui said the presidential election was a golden opportunity for the state to send its daughter, after Rajendra Prasad, to occupy the Rashtrapati Bhawan. “Every legislator should vote for her,” Siddiqui said.
  
  Sources said all the RJD’s 61 MLAs and Congress’s 20 MLAs, who were in Patna, attended the meet. The RJD has 80 and Congress has 27 MLAs in the state.
  
  Meira, who arrived in Patna on Thursday, will visit her native home at Chandwa near Ara, 55km from the state capital, on Friday. She will leave for Jharkhand on Saturday.
  
  Meanwhile, RJD MLA  , who has been a vocal critic of JD (U) chief and CM   on various issues, told newsmen outside the hotel that many JD (U) legislators would vote for Meira despite the party leadership’s decision to support Kovind.
