VADODARA: A two-year-old incident of a married woman and her alleged paramour subjected to   by the   and her husband in   has come to light now. 

 The woman from Chinchod village approached the police with a complaint last week, alleging that her husband Shantilal Rathwa had tied her and another man Mukesh Rathwa with a tree and thrashed them brutally. This was done in connivance with the village panchayat members in April 2015.
 
 On Monday night, police arrested four members of the panchayat.
 
 The woman has alleged that her husband wanted to extract Rs 5 lakh cash out of Mukesh Rathwa, the lady’s alleged paramour for which he asked her to give false statement that the latter had come to their home to village panchayat on March 24, 2015. 
 
 However, when she refused, Shantilal allegedly thrashed her and then rubbed chilly powder on her private parts.
 
 Two days after the incident, Shantilal and his elder brother Mahesh again beat her in the village. Police said that on April 3, 2015 night Shantilal brought Mukesh to his house, tied him to a pillar and started to thrash him. After few minutes, he also tied his wife and called the village panchayat members.
 
 The woman alleged that the village panchayat members – Hemsinh Rathwa, Kanti Rathwa, Rasik Rathwa, Kata Jalubhai, Gopal Rathwa, Popat Rathwa, Balsinh Rathwa and Kata Madkhabhai – along with her husband and brother-in-law and thrashed both of them. She also told the police when a former sarpanch Govind Rathwa was also threatened with dire consequences when he tried to intervene, the woman told TOI.
 
 Cops said that Mukesh and the woman were untied next day in the morning when Shantilal’s cousin came and told them that he will pay Rs 1 lakh on behalf of Mukesh. 
 
 The woman and Mukesh were then forcefully made to sign on a stamp paper which they had not read. Police said that the woman was then asked to go to live with Mukesh and after two days both of them were externed from the village by the panchayat.
 
 The police arrested Hemsinh, Kanti, Rasik and Jalubhai on late Monday night. “We are gathering evidences against all accused and will arrest all of them who are involved,” said L G Nakum, police sub-inspector, Chhota Udepur police station.
 
 
