BENGALURU: The RSS and BJP are trying to appropriate Mahatma Gandhi with an objective to displace him as a national icon, student leader   alleged on Thursday. 

 “Right-wing groups could never appropriate Gandhi as they never believed in his ideology. Their real objective is to replace Gandhi with their ideologue. They will first try to appropriate him and then replace him,” Kanhaiya Kumar told reporters at a media interaction organized by the Press Club of Bengaluru.
 
 He was responding to a query on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s picture replacing Gandhiji’s in the calendar and diary by   recently. “They would appropriate Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar, too but they can’t since they don’t believe in their ideologies. While Bhagat Singh was an atheist, Ambedkar was up against Manusmriti,” he added.
 
 ‘Criticizing PM is not sedition’
 
 Kanhaiya said he was not an anti-Modi, but was only responding to the Prime Minister’s failure to deliver on his promises. 
 
 Criticizing the PM shouldn’t be viewed as anti-national stand, he said. “You can’t say the Prime Minister is equal to the nation. Criticizing the government is not sedition,” said Kanhaiya, against whom a sedition case is pending before court.
 
 Justifying the BSF soldier posting videos about poor quality food being supplied to soldiers, he said there should be a proper system to listen to the grievances of soldiers and information should not be suppressed at any cost.
 
 He termed the government’s move to put a curb on students’ union elections anti-democratic. “The Lyngdoh Committee says elections to students’ unions should be held. However, the government has been selective while implementing the report. While they are not allowing elections on campuses, they selected a point from the report and stopped me from contesting for a second term for the president of JNU Students’ Union,” he alleged.
 
 Taking a potshot at the Karnataka government, Kanhaiya said sedition cases were booked against many students during last year’s JNU agitation. The state has failed to ensure women’s safety also, he added. 
 
 At St Aloysius College in Cox Town, Kanhaiya interacted with students and urged them to raise their voice whenever they think the government is doing wrong. 
 
