NAGPUR: After initial denial,   finally confirmed that a teacher ‘deliberately’   of over 50 students during evaluation. TOI, on January 4, had reported about NU Exam Section officials coming across a case of a teacher who granted excess marks to over 50 students, despite the fact that they hadn’t solved most of the questions. Without revealing his identity, the officials disclosed that the lecturer hails from arts faculty and was working with renowned government run college run in city. 

 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole confirmed the development to TOI on Tuesday stating that their internal probe confirmed that the lecturer had indeed increased marks of students, despite the fact that many had left almost all pages of answer sheets, completely blank. “We had revaluated all those suspected answer books from other evaluators, where it was found that some students had literally scored zero. But this lecturer surprisingly granted them extra marks in the range of 40-50, without any reason.”
 
 He however refused to disclose the name of the lecturer or his college stating that they would be handing over the probe to NU’s Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC). “Only after DAC held him guilty, we could reveal his name. Otherwise, it would unnecessarily spoil his image along with his college. We however have declared results of all those students.”
 
 Yeole informed that they had cross examined the arts teacher on granting extra favours to the students where he admitted his role terming it as mistake. “In his defence he stated that it was his first time for on-screen evaluation and he was unaware of how to grant marks and scheme of marking. He said the blunder happened only on first day and on other days, he had evaluated answer books properly as per rules and regulations. We too, checked his version and found that it was his first time of on-screen evaluation.”
 
 The pro-VC added that it was extremely tough to manipulate anything in the new online system and therefore, his defence couldn’t be ruled out. “In new system, the evaluator gets any answer sheet randomly from four districts. Moreover, it was masked and they can’t see the roll number of any other information. Importantly, the incident happened in faculty where it was hard to believe that such instances could actually took place. If it was engineering or any other professional faculty, we could have believed in chances of malpractices. However, we don’t want to take any chances and hence handed over the case to DAC,” he said.
 
 
