PUNE: Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) has recalled 178 of its employees who were working in different departments of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ).

 The move comes only a couple of days after 80 PMPML drivers working in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s garbage collection vans were called back and told to report at the bus depots.
 
 “A letter regarding the same has been sent to the PCMC authorities from the office of the chairman and managing director. The employees work in PCMC as cleaners and helpers, among others. We are expecting them to return by this week. They have been told to report to different bus depots after which further decisions will be taken on giving them duties,” a transport body official told TOI.
 
 Dinesh  , PCMC commissioner, confirmed the move.
 
 “It is true that PMPML has recalled its employees who were working with PCMC. These men used to work in different departments like taxation and administration. Some of them are garbage truck drivers. However, we don’t think this will affect the day-to-day functioning of PCMC. The municipal corporation has got a total staff strength of around 7,500 employees and with 178 employees going away, we don’t think it will make a huge difference,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 When asked as to how will the corporation tackle garbage collection considering that many of these recalled employees were garbage truck drivers, the commissioner said that they will outsource drivers.
 
 “We already have an agency from where the drivers’ are outsourced. If problems arise, we will outsource more drivers so that garbage collection in the municipal area isn’t affected,” Waghmare said.
 
 Sources in the transport body said that the recalling of staff was aimed at making optimum use of PMPML resources.
 
 “Since the new chairman and managing director has joined, several steps have been taken to make the services better. The stress is on making optimum use of staff members so that more buses can be on roads. More than 1,000 buses in the fleet are not running due to technical snags or lack of drivers. While work has been started to repair the buses, once they are road worthy, PMPML will need more drivers. Hence, the staff members working in the corporations are being recalled. There are many vacancies in the administrative department and work is getting affected,” another PMPML official pointed out.
 
 
