KOLKATA: Give a man a fish and he eats for a day; teach him to fish and he eats all his life. But what if the fish stops biting the bait? That is the question that  , professor of astronomy and physics at  , posed to the audience at the   held on Friday as part of the bicentennary celebrations of Presidency University. 

 Using the adage to highlight the limitations of an educational system geared towards just preparaing for a job, Bailyn said it did not encourage entrepreneureal spirit and innovation essential in the present-day world where a person may not have a single career for a lifetime; but a lifetime of changing careers. 
 
 “If the fish stopped biting one day, it would be essential for our man to quickly learn enough marine biology to know what is going on and if the change is likely to be permanent. He or she should also know about the global economy to devise an alternative source of income for his family, friends and neighbours and be sufficiently persuasive to insist his friends and colleages to make the necessary transition. Liberal arts provides that flexibility to thrive in a world in transition, to learn new things and to quickly adopt to dramatic changes in circumstances while still holding fast to a set of basic principles for living,” said Bailyn.
 
 Presidency University vice-chancellor   said the 200-year-old institution was attempting just that through the liberal arts and science programme that had replaced all pass courses. “We now have science students doing a course in history or philosophy and philosophy students doing a course in biology,” she said.
 
 But Lohia has a greater desire and that is for everyone in the institution to imbibe a scientific temper. “I think science education is essential for all. Every human being is born with natural curiousity about oneself, about nature, about the universe. How does the person access information? One way is to be scientific and learn how to do so. Science has a method, a way of analysis and data collection. It teaches how to ask a question and get the answer. That is what everyone passing out of Presidency must possess: the ability to ask an analytical question and find an answer,” she said.
 
 The molecular parasitologist, who had earlier been the chairperson in the department of biochemistry at Presidency, felt it was science teachers’ inability to explain the complex in simple terms that scared away students from the subject. 
 
 “The system is at fault for not making science appealing enough for students. We have to re-examine our methods of teaching. We have to introduce reasearch-based methods. That is what we are trying to do at Presidency. We want science to be sought by everyone. It will take a generation or two, but it will definitely happen,” the VC said. 
 
 One way to begin that, felt Bailyn, was to teach computer coding to everybody. “That way, people will have some inkling of what the devices that rule our lives are actually doing,” he reasoned. 
 
