NEW DELHI: An Indian doctor, who has been rescued from the   captive, has on Sunday thanked Prime Minister  , National Security Agency of India and other senior officials for facilitating his release from  . 

 Dr  , a native of  's Krishna district, said he would never forget the help done by the Indian authorities to get him free from the captivity of the terrorist group.
 
 "They ( ) used to force me to get into operation theaters, but I never did any surgery or stitches for them," Kosanam was quoted as saying by ANI.
 
 "These ISIS people are well-educated youngsters and they do know about India and its development and how it has developed in education, economy and everything else. They are interested in India. But, I did understand that they wanted to spread the ideology of their nation to other parts of the world, including India," he said.
 
 
  Talking about ISIS cruelty he went on to say, "ISIS people forced us to watch videos of what they did to Iraq, Syria, Nigeria and other places. It was bit difficult to watch them."
 
 "In a camp in the city, they requested me to come and work in their hospitals. But since I was 61 then I had back pain and right leg nerve pain. I told them I was an old man and I couldn't stand for more than 15 minutes at a stretch. I told them I am medically trained, not surgically trained. So they pulled me out of the Mahakama jail and put in another. I saw all kinds of attacks there," the doctor said.
 
 Talking about the cadres of the terror group, Ramamurthy added that all the members of the outfit were extremely dedicated towards their organisation and were strictly following each and every rule.
 
 "The working members of the organisation are mostly youngsters. I saw suicide bombers as young as 10 year old. There were members beyond the age of 65 too," he said.
 
 Kosanam was abducted by ISIS in Libya about 18 months ago.
 
 "We have rescued Dr Ramamurthy Kosanam in Libya. Dr. Kosanam has suffered a bullet injury. We are bringing him to India shortly," External Affairs Minister   said, last week.
 
 "With this, we have rescued all the six Indians abducted there. I appreciate the good work done by our mission there," Sushma said in a series of tweet messages.
 
 
