Fifteen years ago, India’s most beautiful woman made a shining debut at the red carpet of world’s biggest cinematic extravaganza, Festival de Cannes and there’s been no looking back since then. Former Miss World and Bollywood actress   has been a regular at Cannes Film Festival since 2002. Spotted more often than any of her Hollywood counterparts, the doe-eyed beauty has made India proud on numerous occasions, courtesy her impeccable style and sheer poise. At 43, Ash is looking sensational as ever and as she gears up to set the Cannes’ red carpet on fire once again; it’s time look back at the most exquisite ensembles worn by the stunner.
 
  And, we got in touch with Delhi based stylist and accessory designer Suhel Abrol, who’s worked for Paris-based fashion giants Kenzo and Vetements to decode the best looks of Aishwarya so far. Here’s a look at the same.
  
  
 
  Three years after experimenting and weathering all the criticism, Aishwarya stunned one and all as she donned a floral Giorgio Armani gown. Breezy and casual, Ash slayed the red carpet with her grace.
  
  On another outing that very year, Ash wore a black lace Gucci gown. Sexy and risqué with a plunging neckline, the gown was enough to declare ‘Aishwarya has arrived’.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  In 2006, Ash chose an off shoulder blue Elie Saab gown with a lovely flare and accessorised it with a snake necklace and that was enough to grab all the eyeballs!
  
  
  
  
  
 
  One of Aishwarya’s best looks till date, the white Roberto Cavalli strapless number paired with a pink Swarovski clutch was enough to take our breath away. With hubby Abhishek in tow, Ash seemed like a vision in white.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  In 2011, Aishwarya walked the red carpet in yet another Elie Saab gown. A one shoulder peplum dress from the spring 2011 couture line of the famous designer, the actress paired it with a Jimmy Choo clutch. Her drop earrings from Chopard, hair in place and perfect makeup sealed the deal for the actress.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  A completely different look altogether, a remarkably slender Ash wooed all in a very unique one-shoulder satin teal Gucci Premiere gown. Her knotted up hairdo and a dash of pink on her supple lips just added to the look. An unforgettable ensemble there.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  Our personal favourite, Ash’s gold and glittery off-shoulder dress by Roberto Cavalli was what fairytale princesses wear. Aishwarya completed her look with deep red lipstick, wavy hair and smoky eyes. Well, this woman can just kill with her looks!
  
  
  
  
  
 
 And two years back she was spotted in a strapless monochrome Ralph and Russo ruffled skirt gown. This look of hers made us fall in love with the diva all over again. The diamond accessories and metallic heels complemented the dramatic gown in the most beautiful way ever.
  
  
  
  
