BENGALURU : On February 1, when 26-year-old R Ragesh was returning home from work, a speeding truck rammed into his two-wheeler on the trumpet bridge that connects   to KIA, leaving him with severe head and facial injuries. Given that his skull was smashed, and the jaws were broken, chances of Ragesh's survival were very slim. However, more than three weeks after the accident, Ragesh, an   employee, has recovered completely after undergoing a 12-hour surgery that has not left a single scar on his face. 

 A team comprising neuro, and cranio maxillofacial surgeons, in addition to anaesthetists, at  , Sahakaranagar, performed a reconstruction surgery on February 2 on Ragesh's smashed anterior portion, and base of the skull. Ragesh was able to walk out of the hospital around 15 days after the surgery was completed. 
 
  Ragesh was rushed in an unconscious state to Prolife Hospital, Byatarayanapura, before being shifted to Aster CMI Hopsital. Besides fractured bones on his face, the cerebro-spinal fluid was leaking through some of his wounds, said doctors at Aster. Chief consultant for neurosurgery and chief of neurosciences at Aster Dr Ravi Gopal Verma elaborated on the difficulties involved in the surgery. "Bones needed to be realigned at the anterior cranial fossa - the anterior part of the skull where the brain rests. The base of the skull was shattered to about 15 to 20 pieces. Since the brain cavity was in connection with the nasal cavity, fluid was seeping out of his nose," he added. 
 
 " We began the surgery at 9am, and ended it at 9pm on February 2. We managed to fix his smashed face, and the broken cheek and nasal bones. The repaired bones were fixed to the anterior cranial fossa using mini titanium plates, and screws. We also created a platform that prevented contact between the brain and nasal cavities. This ensured that there was no further loss of cerebro-spinal fluid," Dr Verma said. 
 
  Ragesh's father, M Radhakrishnan, said: "Ragesh was shifted to Aster CMI Hospital by  , the chief security officer at KIA. The accident had left my son's lower jaw was broken into three fragments, and the upper jaw was split in two, in addition to leaving his forehead broken." 
 
 Ragesh, who was discharged after an 18-day stay at the hospital, is likely to return to his normal routine soon. "He was on ventilation for seven days, after which he started breathing without external support. Ragesh is healthy," said Radhakrishnan.
 
