THENGWAL DUBEY (DEORIA, UP): Clad in a sleevless sadri and a kurta,   gets emotional at his home village in Deoria district of Uttar Pradesh as he shares memories of the   symbol on which he won his first election in 1989 as independent.

 He took along 40-odd MLAs and had helped Mulayam Singh’s Janta Dal reach majority and form government. Janta Dal had won 208 seats out of 425 at that time. Though Mulayam’s government lasted two years, Swami became a household name in the Janta Dal parivar.
 
 The friendship between Mulayam and Swami Nath grew to the extent that when the former and Janta Dal split in 1992 he decided to contest the elections on his own. Mulayam moved the Election Commission to seek cycle as his party’s symbol. Swami Nath Yadav contested on SP ticket in 1993 and won the polls. 24 years later, Swami is just as popular as he was in his Thengwal Dubey village. But this time he has pledged support to Mayawati's BSP.
 
 “The cycle symbol and myself have both been lucky for SP all these years. I am thankful to Mulayam for the help he gave to boost my political career. But his party doesn’t respect poor. I am thankful to Akhilesh who decided in 2016 to increase pension for ex-MLAs from Rs 15,000 to Rs 29,000. He even beckoned at me at one rally two months ago, though I was standing among a sea of people. But with time, we all move on. I still want to serve rural people, hence BSP,” Swami Nath tells TOI at a small-time dhaba run by one of his five sons.
 
 He is one of the few ex-MLAs of UPA who uses religiously his pass for free travel on bus and trains and even takes along needy locals on additional tickets.
 
 He admits he loves cycling but doesn’t pedal any more as people discourage him to do so over his frosty ties with SP in the last few years. “I think I deserved to get an SP ticket. I had helped Mulayam a lot. My respect for him or Akhilesh hasn’t diminished. I was gifted moped by an MLA colleague Murli Jaiswal who paid Rs 27,000 for it,” he says.
 
