NAGPUR: Paediatric patients account for 30% of the   across the country, as per an estimate by the   (VOS). 

 Regardless of the high rate of paediatric patients,   is still a neglected field in terms of infrastructure, training of doctors and awareness among people, said Dr Ashok Johri, founder of   (POSI). 
 
 Dr Johri was in the city to attend the 23rd annual conference ‘Changing trends in paediatric orthopaedics’ organized by VOS on Saturday.
 
 According to Johri, in many cases parents fail to identify the various infections and deformity in kids at the early stage. “For example, children with low birth weight generally suffer from hip infection. However, the parents pay attention to pneumonia and some other concurrent disorders these children might suffer from and completely miss the hip infection which can spread through blood and infect the joints,” he said.
 
 Advising the parents, he added, “Babies generally move both their limbs simultaneously. Parents can check whether a limb has stopped moving. The baby starts crying even if the limb is straightened or while changing nappies. If parents notice such signs, they should take the baby to a specialist.”
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Shital Parikh from Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Centre, Ohio, United States (US), said, “It is important that such typical complications in paediatric patients, especially trauma, are addressed by a specialist. There is some uncommon diagnosis which the general physician and even the radiologists miss.”
 
 Giving example of a child who toe walked, Dr Parikh said, “When the parents took the kid to general physician, the doctor assured them that nothing has happened. 
 
 “After few years, the parents again took the kid to the same doctor and insisted on a X-ray, still nothing came out. After few years, the parents visited a specialist who then detected hip dislocation. In such cases, the treatment then becomes complicated as the kid is grown up.”
 
 Dr Johri admitted there is a dearth of specialists in the country. He said, “After MBBS, when a student opts for master in orthopaedics for three years, there is no detailed study on paediatric patients. Orthopaedicians have to go through the fellowship programme to gain experience.”
 
 Dr Parikh added, “Like in other countries, we too should have extensive study of paediatrics for at least six months.”
 
 Organizing chairman of the conference Dr   said the government should set up a super speciality children’s hospital in the city.
 
 Dr Johri added, “Medical colleges are too busy addressing accidental cases and other emergency cases, so paediatric patients are being neglected. ”
 
