KOLKATA: Come June, the new owners of   and   are going to invest Rs200 crore each to re-enter the Indian smartphone market trying to build on the nostalgia of consumers, said two senior industry executives.
 
  Finnish start-up HMD Global, which has the Nokia brand licence, will launch its iconic feature phone 3310 later this month. However, the company plans to use the model as a strategic move to re-build the buzz around the brand with limited supplies to the trade since it wants to push sales of its smartphones. The company plans to launch three smartphone models including making the mid-end Nokia 6 online exclusive, the executives said.
  
  The BlackBerry brand licence owner in India,   Group, will spend Rs200 crore to relaunch the brand and will initially target enterprise customers and selling through retail chains before expanding penetration in the market, said chairman Ashok Gupta. The company will launch one model at sub-Rs40,000 next month and another at sub-Rs20,000 in July, he said.
  
  Gupta said the company will launch BlackBerry through 4,000 retailers which includes the retail chains and even the premium neighbourhood stores. “We are expecting Rs2,000 crore sales in this fiscal,” he said.
  
  The attempts to re-enter India by these two legendary brands come at a time when the market is dominated by Samsung and the Chinese brands such as Oppo,  , Xiaomi,  ,   and Gionee. Samsung and the Chinese brigade together control more than 70% of the Indian smartphone market.
  
  Nokia will market its handsets on the durability factor which was associated with the brand and guaranteed software updates, BlackBerry will build the security buzz of smartphones.
  
  This is at a time when the Chinese brands are trying to capture market on the selfie craze. Both the brands will also manufacture its line-up in India. While BlackBerry will be manufactured in Optiemus’ own plant, Nokia has started manufacturing of 3310 and plans to make the smartphones too through Foxconn in India. Both handset brands will run on Google’s Android operating system.
  
  A HMD spokesperson said that a significant portion of its $500 million marketing spend will be in India.
  
  HMD Mobile India vice president Ajey Mehta recently told ET that the company plans to rope in over 400 distributors who can reach out to the nook and corner of the country and set up 300 service centres. It also has plans to setup exclusive brand stores. “We will not be the cheapest smartphone brand but our pricing will be benchmarked against competition,” he said.
