HYDERABAD: Authorities in Delhi may have been prompt in appointing Zafar-ul-Islam   as chairman of its minorities commission, but Telangana government is yet to reconstitute minorities panel. Telangana government had appointed heads of 10 government agencies such as Setwin, State Industrial Development Corporation and State Minority Finance Corporation. The commission did not figure in the list.

 Trouble began to brew with the then constituted minorities panel and the govern ment, when the latter issued eviction notices to Abid Rasool Khan, who was its serving chairman. The government had issued orders to move the office from   on Raj Bhavan Road to government quarters in Erramanzil.
 
 On one hand, government maintained that Khan's term had ended, but on the other, Khan contended that the commission should function till the time the government reconstitutes a new commission. In fact, Khan had knocked on the doors of the High Court, so that the panel could continue discharging its duties. “The State Minorities Commission is under the come up for hearing till now. Our stand remains the same.It is unfortunate that the go vernment is not taking interest in forming the body. The Minorities Commission is a very important body,“ he said.
 
 With the government not reconstituting the body, petitioners are clueless who to approach in case of any grievance. “There are people who have genuine problems. As there is no clarity and the fact that the body is headless, where will they go,“ said activist  , who is associated with the NGO Yugantar.
 
 The case with other organisations affiliated to the   is similar. The Telangana State Haj Committee has been functioning without a panel even before bifurcation. With the Haj Season 2017 beginning on August 11, the committee has been working with special officer Prof S A Shukoor at the helm.
 
 “It is not that work is not happening at these agencies.But it could be much more efficient.   is heading Centre for Education Development of Minorities, Telangana State Urdu Academy and Telangana State Haj Committee. There is only so much one man can do. The government should take steps to have a one-man one-post policy , especially for bodies of Minorities Welfare Department,“ said activist S Q Masood.
 
