Margao/Panaji: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who visited the Curchorem police station soon after the arrest of Francis Pereira, congratulated the police team for the hard work put in by them in cracking the case. 

 Parrikar reckoned that although current evidences point out to a solo involvement, role of multiple people has not been ruled out.
 
 “It may not be a participatory involvement but can be an indirect support. Police will keep up its vigil,” he said after a meeting at the Curchorem police station.
 
 The chief minister described Pereira as a “very intelligent” person who managed to commit so many crimes of   yet remained beyond the police radar for so many years.
 
 “He is very intelligent in that way. He would keep a watch on police movements and strike when he was sure that it was safe for him to do so. It wouldn’t take more than five minutes for him to do it. Many unsolved cases of the past 13-14 years of such nature appear to be his (acts),” Parrikar said.
 
 Asked if the accused was a member of any particular sect, Parrikar said Pereira has denied that he was influenced by any faith groups. 
 
 Minister for town and country planning Vijai Sardesai and Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral were also present along with Parrikar at the Curchorem police station. 
 
 Later, speaking on the sidelines of a function at Bogmalo, Parrikar said that he was confident of police’s ability to crack the case. “We were going on in a very scientific manner. We had done a lot of data mining and use of technology. Many other techniques, which cannot be disclosed were employed which are normally used by investigative agencies,” Parrikar, who is also the home minister, said.
 
 Parrikar also gave his reason for not roping in the CBI to solve the desecration cases, stating that the task required a policing agency rather than an investigative team.
 
 “CBI is not a policing agency, it is an investigating agency and the case required policing. We required recording of movement of vehicles, which were the vehicles that were near the desecration site and similar aspects. All this required a lot of data mining and proper analysis. Following all this, we came to a very small number of suspects from which the police picked him up,” he said.
 
 
