GURUGRAM: Residents of   — the largest in both size and number of voters — aren’t a happy lot, with many of them planning to boycott the MCG poll in protest.

 Some are disappointed with the ward’s delimitation, while others, especially those living in privately developed colonies and societies, don’t seem to have faith in the corporation or the election process.
 
 Kanhai village, Moti Vihar, Saini Khera, Silokhera village, Suncity, South City 1, Sushant Lok 1, DLF 5, Green Wood City and sectors 41, 44, 45, 52A, 53 and 54, among others, are part of this ward, which houses people from varied economic backgrounds.
 
 Currently, the process is on for MCG’s takeover of privately developed areas such as Suncity, Sushant Lok 1 and South City and thus, many residents in these areas are planning to skip voting in the upcoming civic polls.
 
 “South City 1 does not come under MCG as yet. So what’s the point of voting? Everything, from   to power supply infrastructure, is in a shambles here,” said C M Gupta, a businessman who lives in South City 1.
 
 A majority of Sushant Lok 1 residents are planning to cast none of the above (NOTA) in the MCG polls in protest against the pathetic civic amenities and lackadaisical attitude of corporation bosses. Residents of some private colonies have even put up banners in their areas, urging all to cast  .
 
 “None of the political parties is concerned about our problems. They just care about donations and money. We are forced to beg for basic issues like roads, water and power. Our faith in the government machinery is shattered,” said a local resident.
 
 “Most of the private colonies here are plagued with numerous civic issues. After delimitation, the size of the ward has increased. It is going to be difficult to manage such a big area,” said another Sushant Lok 1 resident.
 
 Suncity residents are troubled by illegal encroachments and broken roads. “Whosoever wins should remove encroachments and improve the condition of roads,” said VMK Singh, RWA secretary, Suncity.
 
 Kanhai, one of the two villages in the ward — the other being Silokhera — borders sectors 44 and 45. According to residents of these two sectors, major issues facing their areas are slums and encroachments on empty plots.
 
 “People living in these slums do not have toilets. They bathe and relieve themselves in the open, causing nuisance,” said Surender Kaushik, RWA president, Sector 45. The new councillor will have to address these issues, apart from ensuring better civic amenities, he added.
 
 
