Visakhapatnam: Following several irregularities, the Andhra Pradesh Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (APSSA) has initiated disciplinary action against several officials/staff. The top officials of the   are set on a field visit spree within the last one year and suspended/terminated services of tens of officials/staff, if not hundreds.

 Speaking to ToI, SSA State Project Director, G Srinivas, informed that the Executive Engineers of APSSA from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts are directed to give an explanation for not submitting the needed details.
 
 “We have installed solar panels on several Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya buildings. We asked the Executive Engineers from all the districts to submit a report on the feasibility, efficiency, utility of these solar systems and how these have been helping APSSA in reducing the electricity bills. But the EEs from these districts failed to do so and we had to initiate disciplinary action,” said G Srinivas
 
 When G. Srinivas, accompanied by Joint Director Madhusudana Rao and Community Mobilisation Officer B Krishna Mohan, paid a surprise visit to the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Chilakaluripeta in Guntur district on July 13, he found many discrepancies in the records and poor performance on the part of some officials in their duties.
 
 B Indira, a contract resource teacher in Physical Sciences in KGBV in Chilakaluripeta, has been asked for an explanation for not verifying and correcting the students’ notes. Another contract resource teacher in Telugu was terminated from services for her poor performance in discharging her duties from the same school. Special Officer D Jyothirmai has been asked for explanation for no proper maintenance of financial records. Accountant N Anjamma was terminated from the services.
 
 Project director G Srinivas informed that they suspended Narsaraopeta MEO and in-charge Special Officer G Jayakumar for not properly discharging his duties and also not maintaining proper records.
 
 It’s worthwhile to mention here that the Andhra Pradesh Sarva Siksha Abhiyan has terminated the services of 19 special officers and 47 contract resident teachers of the KGBVs in May of this eyar, who achieved poor results in the SSC examination results.
 
 
