CHENNAI: He was sent out in search of minerals, but returned as the “Englishman who unearthed India’s pre-history”. 

 In May of 1863, when geologist Robert Bruce Foote dug up a primitive hand-axe in Pallavaram, he stumbled upon evidence of the presence of man more than two million years ago. And on Tuesday, a new   attempts to discover more about the geologist, archaeologist, ethnographer, palaeontologist, and artist, who lived and died in pursuit of history.
 
 The 30 minute documentary, to be screened at 11am at the Museum Theatre, has been made by Ramesh Yanthra, who in 2015 made a film on the pre-historic Gudiyam Caves in  , which was screened in Cannes film festival in the short film section the same year. “Over his four-decade long career, Foote discovered 459 pre-historic sites,” says Yanthra. “The discovery at Pallavaram was the beginning of a journey that would lead him towards identical tools in the valleys of Kortalayar ('Kosasthalaiyar River) and Naranavaram in the Madras Presidency,” adds Yanthra.
 
 Foote’s interest in archaeology continued after his retirement as senior superintendent in 1891, drawing him towards the princely states of Baroda and Mysore. “Here, he served as state geologist and director of the  ,” says Yanthra, who adds that Foote was also known for his sketches of places like Kanyakumari. “In 1904, he sold all the pre-historic artefacts (around 4,000) he had found to the government museum because he wanted India’s history to be preserved,” says Yanthra, who adds that his home in Yercaud having passed through various private owners and now named Morenese Retreat and used as a classroom for skill training by a Catholic church. Foote died in 1912 in Kolkata at the age of 78, while working on a project. Though he was cremated there, his ashes are buried in Trinity Church, Yercaud.
 
 Yanthra says that though the documentary was completed a while ago, information on Foote keeps trickling in. “Just a day ago, I received some information from Foote’s great grandson regarding a plaque that the geologist had received for his service”.
 
 Remembering the man is a gesture of acknowledgement and a means of creating awareness in the region. “We see this documentary as a tribute to Foote, who found the first paleolithic tool in India. At the museum, we have the artefacts he unearthed. That is why we wanted to be part of the screening,” says E Divya, curator of the anthropology section at Government Museum at Egmore.
 
