VADODARA: The special court further remanded founder-president of   and his two aides Ashok Tailor and Vinod alias Bharat Savant till March 6 in connection with cash-for-marks scam. The anti-corruption bureau ( ) had requested for remand of seven days.

 Deputy superintendent of ACB (Vadodara field) P R Gehlot told the court that the 220 cheques worth Rs 101 crore found from Shah’s office were given by parents of 124 students of the university and they have already recorded statements of parents of 115 students. 
 
 Gehlot argued that they received bank statements of all the accused late on Friday therefore they could not interrogate them regarding it.
 
 He also told the court that the agency has intercepted calls of eight students’ parents who were demanded money along with the complainant. Their statements are to be recorded therefore presence of Shah and other two accused is necessary. The agency has booked Dr Dhrumil too as another accused in the case and has declared him wanted.
 
 Gehlot also said that the argument of 220 cheques were collected as surety from students is violation of   guidelines as only bank guarantee can be accepted from students. Gehlot also requested for further remand to conduct brain mapping and narco test on the accused.
 
 On the other hand Shah’s lawyer Kaushik Bhatt argued, “Sumandeep Vidyapeeth is giving facility to the students by collecting cheques as surety instead of bank guarantee.” He also questioned the relevance of agency’s role in the whole case. He said that ACB has no jurisdiction since the grounds for further remand given come under the purview of income-tax department.
 
 It was also argued that the complainant has cooked up the whole thing because the said exam for which money was demanded concluded on February 16 and the complaint was registered on February 23.
 
 After hearing arguments from both sides, additional district and sessions judge R K Chudawala allowed ACB’s application partly by sending the trio to their custody until 3 pm on March 6.
 
 
