CHANDIGARH: Holding a   hotel   responsible for “playing with the life and career of the students” and for “setting a bad example in the  ,” the Punjab and   has directed it to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 each to the students who were admitted though the institute did not have any affiliation from the authorities concerned.

 The HC also ordered to refund the entire fees charged by the institute from the students. It also suggested the students to launch prosecution against the institute’s management for cheating them.
 
 Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain of HC passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Ganpati Institute of Hotel Management through its chairman   of Yamunanagar. The petitioner had approached the court seeking directions to the Haryana State Board of Technical Education (HSBTE) and Haryana State Technical Education Society (HSTES) to accept the admission of students done by the institute for the second shift diploma in hotel management course for the academic session 2016-17.
 
 “The very fact that the admissions have been given by the petitioner to the students in the session 2016-17 without affiliation speaks volume about their casual attitude towards the education system.… The petitioner has not only played with the life and carrier of the students but has also set up a bad example in the education system only because of its greed in giving admissions in order to consume the seats offered to it,” observed the HC.
 
 The court r directed the institute to return the tuition fee as well as admission fee deposited by the students who are admitted for the session 2016-17. It also directed to pay the costs of Rs 50,000 each to the students for their pain and suffering. The students may also lodge any kind of prosecution against the petitioner for their act of cheating in giving admission without permission, observed the court.
 
 It is alleged that the institute was granted provisional affiliation for 2016-17 on September 28, 2016, and the last date for admission in the diploma course for the session was August 15, 2016. The last date for the updation of the details of admitted students was August 16, 2016.
 
 The petitioner institute could not provide any proof that it had completed the admission process/counselling for the admission for 2016-17 session before August 15, 2016. Failure of the petitioner to provide information led to cancellation of extension of their affiliation by the HSTES. The petitioner had approached the HC seeking directions to HSTES and HSBTE to recognize the admissions done by it for 2016-17 sessions. HC, however, dismissed its plea.
 
 
