BHOPAL: The BJP govt in   is in a dilemma over choosing between revenue and social cause as some party leaders, backed by their supporters, have   from their areas or impose total prohibition in the state.

 Latest is Abhishek Bhargava, BJP’s youth wing leader and son of rural development minister Gopal Bhargava, who after witnessing protests against liquor shops in his home district Sagar, has sought total prohibition in the state.
 
 “Over the past few days, I have seen women and youths staging protests in parts of Sagar district against liquor shops opened in residential areas. Similar demonstrations in my native town of Garhakota has prompted me to request our popular chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to go for total prohibition in the entire state,” said Abhishek in his Facebook post.
 
 In his Facebook post, Abhishek hit out at the state government and the district administration for ignoring public demand for total prohibition. But, when asked about his statements, he clarified that there is no political intention involved in the entire initiative. “I have posted some remarks against the state government and the district administration but these were meant only to raise awareness and not for any political gains. I will continue my fight against de-addiction and illicit liquor,” he told TOI.
 
 The youth leader of Bundelkhand has also announced that he will set up an anti-liquor squad, comprising women and youths, who will launch a movement against liquor shops located in residential areas. He said that he will take out a foot march across Sagar district, beginning from his father’s assembly constituency Rehli, to back total prohibition in the state.
 
 His father, Gopal, has a different opinion. “Abhishek is young, so he wants quick remedy for such issues. To stop liquor consumption, one needs to spread awareness instead of imposing a ban on it. Every action has some repercussions. If liquor is suddenly banned, liquor mafia will take advantage and revenue will also be hit. We need a thoughtful approach on this matter”, the minister said.
 
 Similarly, MLA from Indore, Sudershan Gupta has also demanded that liquor shop be removed from Airport Road, the area which falls under his constituency. Gupta said that local residents have lodged protest against the shop and they have also requested chief minister Chouhan to take an initiative in the matter.
 
 Sources in BJP said that after chief minister began a campaign against alcohol consumption during his Narmada Yatra, Congress raised demand for imposing total prohibition in the state. The sources said that the Congress planned the strategy to gain public sympathy, so it is necessary that BJP workers counter the move.
 
 
