The run up to the Independence Day is favourite time to fly kites for many youngsters. However, just as the kite-flying season is about to begin, the   has imposed a nation-wide ban on nylon,   and cotton manjhas coated with glass, citing a threat to life and environment. About a year ago, the government had also issued a notice, banning Chinese manjhas, but it didn’t have much of an impact, as many shopkeepers and suppliers continued to sell them despite the ban. This time, when we visited the kite market in Agra’s Kala Mahal area after the   ban, we were pleasantly surprised to see that no one was selling Chinese and nylon manjhas. Shopkeepers told us that they were neither "selling, buying, nor had any old stock of Chinese and nylon manjhas." 

 'NO CHINESE, AB BAS   KA   CHALEGA'
 
  Most of the shopkeepers said that they do not have the banned manjhas in their stock. Chaudhary Farhan, a shopkeeper in Gudri Mansoor Khan area, says, "Since the Chinese/nylon manjha have been banned by the Supreme Court, we have stopped selling them. We don’t even have any stock of the Chinese manjhas left in our stores. We now only have desi manjha from Bareilly. Desi manjhawalo ki toh chandi ho gyi hai."
 
  So have people stopped asking about Chinese manjhas? Anwar Khan, a shopkeeper from Mal Ka bazar, Mantola, says, "Children still come to us asking for Chinese manjha. Par hum unhe samjha dete hai ki Chinese manjha accha nahi hai. Aur woh samajh jate hai. Whatever be it, we don’t sell them anymore."
 
  Mohammad Hussain, a shopkeeper in Kala Mahal area, says, "We are happy with the decision of a complete ban on Chinese manjha. Not only for human beings, Chinese manjha was harmful for birds and animals also. Though Bareilly’s manjha is a bit expensive but the quality is better than the Chinese manjha."
 
  Not just in Agra, even in the capital, kite shops are no longer selling Chinese manjhas. Bishan Singh, who owns a shop in Delhi’s  , adds, "We only have cotton manjha and sadda (coloured spool) from Bareilly, no nylon and Chinese manjha."
 
  
  Desi manjha is back to the markets of Agra (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 RATE DIFFER BUT PEOPLE HAVE NO OTHER OPTION
  
  Since Chinese manjha costs less and doesn’t break easily, the customers prefer it to the desi manjha. "Jahan Chinese manjha `100-150 main mil jata tha, wahi desi manjha `250 tak mil raha hai. Yeh price aur badh sakta hai depending on the quality of the manjha," Anwar Khan adds.
 
  Altaf Qureshi, a shopkeeper from Delhi, adds, "Chinese manjha was surely cheaper, but it was also harmful. That is why we all are only selling cotton manjha. We haven’t faced any loss because we had no Chinese manjha in stock and since the ban had come last year as well, nobody was supplying it this year anyway."
 
  — Riya.Sharma@timesgroup.com and Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
 
 
