Thiruvananthapuram: A protest march taken out by SFI activists to   Law College (KLA) here on Sunday turned violent leaving   and   worth Rs five lakh.

 The SFI, which did not take part in the joint agitation by other student organizations against the college management initially, joined the stir on Friday. The students under KSU, MSF, AISF and ABVP had begun the protest against alleged anomalies in awarding internal marks and inhuman treatment meted out to students at the institution, on Wednesday. Following the agitation, the management was forced to close down the college on Thursday.
 
 According to police, even after the   turned violent, the academy management did not file any police complaint until late in the evening. Incidentally, the college management shares a cordial relationship with the ruling CPM.
 
 “The attack seemed to be a pre-planned one as the SFI workers attacked the cops without any provocation. There were only 20 policemen on the campus to stop the students from entering the office block,” said Perrorkada SI Premkumar, adding that the activists barged into the office after attacking the policemen. “They destroyed chairs, tables, window panes,   and other properties worth lakhs of rupees,” he said.
 
 The Law Academy has been witnessing weak but sporadic student protests for a long time over alleged harassment by the management. The major allegations was that the management has been using ‘internal marks’, which the college awards to each student, to threaten/harass the latter. The students were also allegedly subjected to inhuman and substandard treatment and caste/religion-based discrimination.
 
 The immediate cause that snowballed into the current joint agitation was the Law Academy denying permission to student unions for organizing a programme to declare solidarity with the protests against Nehru college, where an engineering student committed suicide following alleged harassment by the college management.
 
 It’s for the first time that student organizations with different political leanings have come together against the college.
 
