KANPUR:   walks up to the nets, takes guard and crunch! The front foot goes swiftly forward, the bat comes down straight, the front elbow goes up and the back heel is raised -right out of the text book.

 The man who likes to assert that his six-hitting capabilities don't match up to some of his contemporaries, has managed to transcend his T20 batting from being merely effective to destructive in the last year, starting from the World T20. If the two back-to-back astounding knocks batting at No. 3 in the quarterfinal and semifinal signalled his evolution, opening the batting in the subsequent IPL only helped him mark his authority. So, will we see him bat right up front in the innings against England on Thursday?
 
 “In the IPL you don't have many Indian players to play with because they are spread across franchises. But here you have the best of the lot as far as Indian batsmen are concerned,“ Kohli tried to reason it out, putting his team ahead of himself. “You have to see who fits in where.There are a lot of options, which is a very good thing. I have only opened once or maybe twice for India, but I have the experience of opening in IPL. If need be, I could or I might not depending on the balance of the side. There are all kinds of possibilities,“ he left it open-ended.
 
 A look at the team would throw up only one certainty for the opening slot -KL Rahul. The other two possibilities besides Kohli are rookies Mandeep Singh and Rishabh Pant. While Mandeep did try his hand at opening the batting for RCB in the IPL, Pant has moved up and down the order for Delhi Daredevils in the only season of IPL he has played.
 
 Every captain likes to move ahead in his comfort zone and RCB is the template of T20 cricket Kohli is most used to. He sparked a turnaround in Rahul's batting at the top of the order last season. He has picked two new spinners, Yuzvendra Chahal and Parvez Rasool, as they have played under him at RCB. Hence, Rahul at the top of the order could just nudge him to open.
 
 But he has his mind fixed on building a balanced team.So, he stated he has a fixed XI in his mind for the first match, which he reckons is far easier to do at the start of the series than in the middle. “The problem always arises when you don't have consistency, so I think starting now we'll be able to figure out after a few games what is the best combination possible,“ he said.
 
 
