PUDUCHERRY:   Circle and United Kingdom-based   (UPG) that have begun a statewide tour in Tamil Nadu will exhibit their athletic talents in a series of parkour performances from January 31 to February 3 in the Union territory of Puducherry. 

 Parkour, a sport that originated in France, is a discipline of movement that trains the traceur ( ) to negotiate any kind of terrain or environment.
 
 Members of the two teams have so far performed at Coonoor (from January 17 to 20), Coimbatore (from January 21 to 24) and Namakkal (from January 26 to 29) before reaching Puducherry. They will conclude their tour at Chennai with a series of performances from February 6 to 11.
 
 Supported by the Arts Council of England's Reimagine India Fund and the British Council, the teams will create and perform a show titled, 'Indian Steam' besides teaching interested people to perform parkour in the Union territory during their four-day stay. The 'Indian Steam' show, modelled on its 2015 show titled, 'Steam' will include only Indian performers. The team members have toured the UK for two years and spent a couple of weeks in Tamil Nadu last year, to research and create an Indian version of 'Steam'.
 
 Parkour Circle and UPG include dancers, actors and stunt performers. One of Parkour Circle's co-creators has taught nearly 600 participants through 17 workshops with 11 partner organisations so far in the statewide tour. The two organisations will extend opportunities to trained Indian performers to tour the   and perform a final British and Indian version an audience of Indian diaspora.
 
 Peter Heslip, director of southeast, Arts Council England, while appreciating the two organisations for infusing Indian culture into the show, expressed optimism that the initiatives will strengthen international connections, create a bigger global audience and establish new commercial opportunities.
 
 "India and the UK have years of shared history and the UK-India Year of Culture seeks to promote this spirit of cultural partnership. This marks the culmination of four years of Re-Imagine, which was designed to build new creative connections between India and Britain that celebrate, connect and inspire. Throughout the year, we will be bringing together major UK and Indian institutions and artists from all fields to showcase British and Indian creativity and strengthen cultural ties," said Director of British Council India, Alan Gemmell OBE.
 
