RUDRAPUR: BJP legislators in   district on Monday alleged that the ruling Congress was exploiting the government machinery to influence voters ahead of the polls. It also claimed that several senior government official were helping the ruling party ahead of the state polls.
 The opposition party MLAs sought the intervention of the   to check the “malpractice”.
  “Sensing an anti-Congress mood and disenchantment among voters, the ruling party, in a desperate bid to influence the people, is  ,” alleged Rajesh Shukla, BJP MLA from Kiccha seat. The BJP leader also alleged that the district administration was working under the influence of the ruling party.
  Shukla said that the party has prepared a comprehensive report on the issue and will submit it before the   soon. He also sought a probe into the “dubious” role played by the government officials in the poll process.
  The MLA alleged that the chief minister’s office was functioning as Congress office and the election atmosphere in the district has been vitiated.
  BJP MLA from Khatima, Pushkar Singh Dhami, said that the issue will also be raised before the party forum.
  “The BJP will also submit a detailed report on the alleged irregularities, particularly the role of certain government officials, to the SEC soon,” Dhami said.
  “The two senior most official of the district-- the district magistrate (DM) and senior superintendent of police (SSP) -- were transferred here just a few months ago with a condition of helping the ruling party,” alleged Dhami.
  While Arvind Pandey, BJP MLA from Gadarpur, said that the state election commission should ensure that the ruling party does not take undue advantage of being in power in the state.
  Rajkumar Thukral, BJP MLA from Rudrapur, alleged: “Eying the upcoming assembly polls, the Congress is misusing the state machinery. It is also maligning the BJP.”
  However, refuting the charges, Congress leader and former minister Tilak Raj Behar said that “wild and baseless” allegations are being levelled by BJP leaders as they are staring at imminent defeat.
