BHOPAL: The controversial move to replace Mahatma Gandhi with Prime Minister   spinning ‘charkha’ on Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) calendars and dairies hasn’t gone down well among   and dealers here.

 “We see it as another bad surprise after demonetisation and we are pained on coming to know about it. He is the prime minister, how can he take such decisions?” said city-based worker, Mahindra Kumar, who deals with Khadi products. Upset over no Gandhi picture on the calendar, Sushma Jain, a city-based Khadi shop owner, said “Khadi belongs to Mahatma Gandhi, no one has achieved his status yet in India. Nobody could have replaced him, not even Modi.” She said for them Khadi is a ‘life’ given to them by Gandhi not Modi.
 
 Madhya Pradesh Khadi Board members are highly dismayed over the change. Sanjay Palival, a member of Khadi Board, said “Every charkha spinner cannot be Mahatma Gandhi and if Modi is trying to use it as a political stunt then it is highly disappointing.” Another member Prem Chand termed it as Modi’s “self-promoting business”. He said Modi wants to show that he is just like Gandhi. “I will be the last person on the earth to accept Modi in place of Bapu. He gave birth to Khadi, replacing him is a cheap stunt. This will only bring our sales down because for people their icon is Bapu not Modi,” he said. Khadi product dealer Hemant Kumar wondered, “How can anyone stoop so low for fame?”
 
 An artisan from Betul, Vijay Malvi, presently weaving threads at Khadi Utsav Bhopal, said “I owe my skills to Gandhi who gave us charkha. I don’t understand the need of replacing him and that too in his pose. What Modi is trying to portray by getting clicked in Gandhi’s pose, I wonder,” he said.
 
 Photo quotes:
 
 Mahindra Kumar
 
 “Modi is unnecessarily trying to become father of nation which he can never be. India is known only because of Gandhiji, Modi who is just few year’s old prime minister can’t be an icon.”
 
 Sushma Jain
 
 “All I want to say is no one has replaced Gandhiji and no one can replace him. He sacrificed his life for this nation, removing picture of such a great personality is disrespectful.”
 
 Sanjay Palival
 
 “Although Modi is brand ambassador for Khadi but a picture can’t turn him into Gandhiji.”
 
 Hemant Kumar
 
 “Modi should find other ways to promote his image, he has no right to hurt our sentiments.”
 
