New Delhi: The impending   dominated the agenda during the first day of the two-day  . On Tuesday, the House passed a resolution to set up a fact-finding committee under the chairmanship of the director of local bodies to look into alleged financial irregularities in the three corporations. 

 Amid allegations of corruption in the civic bodies-AAP even suggested that the non-payment of salaries to safai karamcharis was an anti-Dalit move-leader of the opposition   warned the government that the crisis had not ended and there could be more strikes unless the Delhi government implemented the fourth finance commission's report.
 
 GK MLA   proposed the resolution, which read: "This House takes a serious note of the extremely poor financial management in the municipal corporations, particularly in the east and the north corporations. This House condemns the sorry state of affairs that has led to non-payment of salaries of employees in these two corporations, particularly the sanitation workers and the resultant hardships being faced by the residents of Delhi due to piled up garbage and other related problems...directs the government to take all possible steps to look into the finances of the MCDs in accordance with the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957..."
 
 The report of this committee is to be presented in the House during the budget session, which is expected to be held in March.
 
 The discussion on the civic bodies started with AAP MLAs accusing the BJP-led corporations of massive bungling of funds and mismanagement. "The councillors earn so much under the table that just 10% of that sum will be sufficient to pay salaries of all employees of the three corporations. The corporation lacks the will to work for people and is a highly mismanaged body," said deputy CM Manish Sisodia. He was supported by other MLAs who claimed that the corporations were refusing to carry out works under the MLA funds as councillors had threatened the civic staff against interacting with legislators.
 
 Gupta, meanwhile, said that the corporations were being prevented from carrying out their constitutional duties due to lack of funds. "Delhi government is obliged to give the corporations, especially the east corporation, more money than it is giving at present. First, the AAP government did not table the report and when they were forced by HC decision to do so, it is now not implementing it," he maintained.
 
