HYDERABAD: At a time when there is acute   in the state, the CBSE's new rule that only national awardee principals can continue beyond the age of 60 is not going down well with city educationists.

 Several principals said this move would further decrease the quality of education in the country and felt that mature and experienced staff should not be asked to leave till they are mentally and physically fit. “These days not many people are willing to come into teaching. It will be better if we avail the services of qualified and efficient principals. These rules of CBSE will just increase the shortage of teachers by folds,“ said   , president, Telangana Recognized Schools. “When state or ICSE boards don't have any such rule, why should CBSE make such moves and deprive students an opportunity to learn under efficient faculty ,“ he added.
 
  Meanwhile, the national awardees said that CBSE board should give proper qualification on whether this rule will be applicable just to principals who receive an award starting this year or for everyone. “When I received the award in 2011, I was promised that I will be allowed to work until the age of 65. Now, if they are saying that I can work only till 62, then what will happen to their promise?“ Questioned  , principal, Meridian School. She added that teachers be given more privileges and initiatives to make them feel special to attract younger generation into this field. “Remuneration is not on par with other fields in education. It should be noted that teachers groom youngsters and direct them into fields suitable for pupils. The government and boards should make them feel special. Awards and perks like are motivating and should be left untouched,“ said Usha.
 
 From now on, national awardee principals over the age of 60 years will be able to continue in their post. They would need prior approval of the CBSE. In the last one month, this is the second change that the CBSE board made to its by-laws that control recruitment of principals.So far, there was no such involvement from  .
 
