As Ustad Usman Khan’s fingers traversed the strings of the sitar, years rolled back for visibly enchanted audience of around 80 people at   last week. The 76-year-old sitar virtuoso took the old timers in the audience on a nostalgia trip, back to the days when he would perform along side stalwarts like   and tabla legend Sheikh  . And the Ustad himself couldn’t help but relive those “good old days”.
“I can’t remember how many times I’ve come to Hyderabad, but I’ve come many, many times. I especially remember playing at a function hosted by Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. As a youngster, I played a lot with the legendary Sheikh Dawood Khan. He was beyond comparison, and was very popular in the North,” shares the Ustad. 
 A smile flashes across the Ustad’s face as he continues to talk about Hyderabad. “Every city has its own flavour, but there was a general understanding among us musicians that the Hyderabadi people had a deep appreciation for classical music. Not just the people, the city itself is so beautiful,” says the Ustad, as he adds, “It would be highly inappropriate to not mention how much I love the biryani here, I wish I could mention another dish other, but without biryani how can I think of Hyderabad. In fact, whenever my son-in-law comes here, he brings many packets of biryani for me to relish back home.”
 Ustad, who now lives in Pune, comes from a family who’ve been sitar players for generations. His father was the great   and grandfather was the legendary Ustad Rehmat Khan, one of the ‘Navratnas of the Maharaja of Mysore’.   was the one who modified the three-stringed been into the seven-stringed sitar that it is today. Despite the age and the lineage, the Ustad doesn’t consider himself a master of his art, the art remains his master. “Even at this age, I practise every day. The music you learn to master doesn’t leave your mind; it stays there. But if we don’t practise our skill diminishes. I need to keep my fingers working,” he shares.
 But it isn’t only the sitar that does the magic for him as a listener. The Ustad has a deep appreciation for other instruments and genres of music as well. “If I wasn’t a sitar player I would have loved to play the bansuri or the sarod. The tonal quality of these instruments is something I admire a lot. I also listen to a lot of Jazz and Blues when I tour Western countries,” says the Ustad, who, however, isn’t a big fan of the fusion genre. 
 “It is the responsibility of us senior musicians to guide the next generation and stress the importance of Classical music. It’s our ibadhat. I’m hopeful that a few musicians can keep the purity of the art intact. We have a lot of young talent, but these days, commercialising the art has become the norm. I’m not very happy with that, but I’m hopeful some musicians can keep the purity of the art intact. Fusion music to me seems like a big confusion. See, I’m all for improvising within the limits of the freedom that basic music theory gives us, but for everyone to take up fusion music just because it is popular is just short sighted,” says the Ustad.
 
