It is the twang in her voice that makes her stand out in the crowd. No wonder she is the blue-eyed girl of every music composer in Bollywood. Shalmali Kholgade, who was in town to attend a private party , spoke to CT about her career, her friends in  , gender equality , her admiration for   and more.Excerpts:You've released a single recently. Do you think recording singles is the latest fad in Bollywood?

 
 For me, it is not a fad. I always wanted to come up with a single -from the time I was in college. It's been four years in the industry and I was waiting for the right opportunity . I am glad it finally materialised.
 
 Your mother is an exponent of Indian classical music. But your style of singing is quite the opposite...
 
 My musical training began at home. While my mom would teach her students in one room, I would play English songs in the next room. Often, I would sneak out from the class and listen to my brother playing the guitar. But later, I realised the importance of riyaaz and why a strong base is required for a singer. But I guess I was lucky; it was in my genes.
 
 With your kind of grooming, you must have had a smooth entry in Bollywood.
 
 Not really . I never thought I would sing playback in movies. I had my share of struggles too. I had sung with college bands, at restaurants where everyone was busy eating -I have done all of that.Sometime around that period, I had recorded a demo. At that time,   was looking for a new voice -so I sent him the demo. He liked it and as they say , the rest was history. It was a lesson for me that one must never stop hoping.
 
 Your new single talks about gender equality. What prompted you to dwell on such a sensitive issue?
 
 
 My reference points were people around me. I feel blessed that I have supportive parents.They have brought me up in such a way that I have always been conscious of all my decisions. I got that freedom in my personal life. When I look around and see my friends fol lowing someone else's deci sions in their lives, I feel sad. It is not fair. This song is to encourage my fans to be able to create a world of their own.
 
 You're the voice behind peppy numbers like Besharmi ki height, Baby ko bass pasand hai etc. Do you think your age has worked in your favour?
 
 
 I am sure it has. Now that I'm young, people prefer my voice for certain songs. Also, my style of singing helps.
 
 Does the industry allow you to make friends from within the circuit?
 
 
 I am very cordial and speak to whoever I meet. But I can't call anyone a friend. I have a huge circle of friends, who are not from the industry . Some are not musicians. The only person from the industry who I can call a friend is  .
 
 People often find similari ties between you and Sunidhi Chauhan in terms of voice quality...
 
 I pretty much worship Sunidhi Chauhan and I don't like it when they compare me to her. But yes, I do under stand people's sentiments. I am obliged that my fans show er so much love on me.
 
 Your songs in Bengali films had many takers. When do we hear another Bengali hit of yours?
 
 
 I work a lot with Arindom (Chatterjee). Together we did Bhalobeshe koro bhul from the film Bindaas and Emotional saiyan for Shudhu Tomari Jonyo. Arindom is a phenomenal songwriter.
 
 There's some kind of honesty in his songs. I love singing in Bengali. I am looking forward to working in   again.
 
 These days a song in Bollywood is recorded by 20 singers before zeroing in on one version. Has this affect ed your morale?
 
 
 Initially, not being selected used to affect me a lot. But then, you can't help it. You have to make your heart understand that you're learn ing new things.
 
 As you've mentioned earlier during the conversation that this is perhaps the `billionth time' you are visiting Kolkata. Tell us what do you like most about the city.
 
 I love mishti doi and sandesh.
 
 Kolkata has an old-world charm and I love the vibe that this place exudes.
 
 
