NEW DELHI: “We gave even Ajmal   the due process and they want to hang   when they have no evidence against the man,” said a senior government functionary as he seethed with anger over the news amplified by Pakistan army that they were planning to execute the alleged Indian spy.

 Known for keeping his cool in the worst sort of pressure cooker situations, the functionary further said that Kasab, the   terrorist who along with members of his jihadi gang ravaged Mumbai in November 2011 but was allowed to avail of all judicial remedies, was no exception.
 
 “There are several instances of Indian courts acquitting terrorists from Pakistan,” he said.
 
 “It was not that we did not have evidence against them.
 
 But courts felt differently and acquitted them. We let them return despite knowing full well what they were up to. We have let even those convicted of terror go to Pakistan after they served their sentence,” said the senior functionary who is involved in crucial decisions concerning national security.
 
 His response reflected the outrage in the government over the shocker from Pakistan with senior sources asserting that they will do whatever possible to save Jadhav from being sent to the gallows.
 
 There is also bafflement over the sudden turn of events. The death sentence, which India has dubbed “pre-mediated murder”, is evidence of the determination of Pakistan army-ISI nexus to continue to determine the hostile neighbour's posture towards India, but they are also puzzled by the trigger for the development.
 
 Asked about the speculation that Jadhav’s death sentence could be a retaliation against the alleged abduction from Nepal of a high-value   agent, a former lieutenant colonel of Pakistan army, by Indian agencies. 
 
 “For all you know, the man never travelled to   or is already back home,” said a senior intelligence source, suggesting that the abduction theory may have been concocted.
 
 A senior government officer said Pakistan has till date not informed India of the specific charge they have brought against Jadhav.
 
 “Nor have we been informed about the death sentence awarded by the so-called military court,” he said, asserting that Jadhav was in   on a valid visa when he was snatched by Pakistani agents.
 
