NEW DELHI: A call centre executive who had gone to withdraw cash from a State Bank of India ATM in   was in for a shock when the Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes dispensed from the machine read "Children Bank of India" in English and " " in Hindi. When he informed the cops, a policeman from the Sangam Vihar police station withdrew notes from the ATM. He too received the  , after which a case was registered at the police station.

 The call centre executive, Rohit Kumar, said in his complaint that he had gone to the ATM on February 6 to withdraw Rs 8,000 for a wedding programme. He said he initially kept the notes in his wallet and stepped out of the ATM and only checked them outside. The notes were the same colour as the original currency, and the printed figures in the same font as the original, but were guaranteed by "children government" and promised to pay the "barer five hundred coupens". It also had "Churan Lable" written in place of the watermarks. The notes had PK written instead of the RBI seal.
 
 Senior police officers say that after receiving a PCR call from Rohit, sub inspector Saurabh and constable Mantu Ram went to the ATM, where the sub-inspector used his Axis Bank card to withdraw money and got the same fake bills.
 
 Police say that following this, they sealed the ATM and informed the bank authorities about the notes. The notes were sent for forensic analysis.
 
 An FIR was registered under Sections 489B (using forged currency notes), 489E (making use of documents looking like currency notes) and 420 (cheating) of IPC. A team was also formed to verify the source of the notes.
 
 SBI, meanwhile, said that all its currency chests have a very robust system to monitor the quality of notes. All notes received and to be dispensed by the bank, either through its ATMs or its branches, are processed through the latest, state-of-the-art "note-sorting machines". These machines are equipped with the templates of all legal tender in the country and any note not conforming to the security features is separated as "suspect note" for further manual scrutiny. No fake note is likely to be dispensed through the bank's ATMs at any time, it said.
 
 The bank said it is examining the notes in all other ATMs handled by the same custodians of the bank and replenished by the same cash replenishment agency. "As the possibility of fake notes from the bank's ATMs is very remote, the bank suspects the involvement of some miscreants with mischievous intent. However, further investigations are underway," a statement by SBI said.
 
 Police say that they suspect the role of some delivery van personnel who might have replaced the original notes with the fakes while loading the ATM.
 
 There have been similar incidents of these fake notes circulating for about a month.
 
 Ramesh Gupta, who runs an electrical goods shop in   market in Chandni Chowk, told TOI that one of his customers had slipped in a fake Rs 500 note along with real currency notes totalling Rs 10,000 on January 30, Monday.
 
 "The size was identical and the paper and colour were also the same," said Gupta, showing TOI the fake note. As Monday is the busiest day of the week, it's not possible to check each and every note for various features, said an associate.
 
 Gupta said that even later, he didn't notice that the note was fake. It got passed on when Gupta made payment for some goods. "Only after they returned the note did we realize that we were duped by one of the customers," Gupta said.
 
