COIMBATORE: A section of the recently completed broad gauge line between   and Pollachi was inspected by the commissioner for railway safety, southern circle, and his team on Thursday. Railway safety commissioner K A Manohar inspected the section between Pollachi and Kinathukadavu on a motor trolley between 10.30 am and 3 pm. The inspection will be completed on Friday. A railway official said though a few suggestions and pointers were made by the safety commissioner, the inspection went off well. 

 “The safety commissioner inspected the structure of the broad gauge line and was more or less satisfied,” said the divisional railway manager of Salem division  . “The commissioner has given us a few pointers that we have to change or take up before the line is given an official go ahead,” he said. 
 
 The team will inspect the   section on Friday on a motor trolley. It will also be followed by high speed trials through the entire route in the afternoon and evening with diesel locomotives and coaches. “The final decision or nod for the broad gauge line is expected on Friday evening, post completion of the inspection,” said Verma. Public has also been advised to stay away from the track between 3.30pm and 5.30pm. 
 
 The 40-km track between Pollachi and Podanur has been converted from metre gauge to broad gauge at a cost Rs 340 crore. The project began way back in 2010, but got delayed due to multiple reasons ranging from fund crunches and land acquisition. The railways said the line included 110 bridges, including road over bridges and limited use subways.
 
 With thousands of people commuting regularly between Coimbatore and Pollachi, this train is expected to be a relief for people who struggle on traffic and accident prone Coimbatore-Pollachi Road on a daily basis. The line will provide a vital rail link from Coimbatore to southern cities, such as Palani, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Rameswaram and Nagercoil, reducing the existing travelling time to a great extent between Coimbatore and these places.
 
