MUMBAI: The   (ANC) of Mumbai police have yet stumbled upon a drug racket in wherein the peddlers used to target college students. 

 ANC unit of Kandivli on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old Suraj Gupta, a vegetable vendor from   area and seized 370 grams banned drug mephedrone or meow meow worth Rs 7.40 lakh as well cash of Rs 7.92 lakh .Gupta has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS).
 
 Sources said that during the course of interrogations Gupta who has been remanded to police custody, spill beans on his mentor identified only as Munna. "Gupta told that he was a small fry in the drug peddling business and Munna is main person who gets MD from somewhere in Gujarat and supplies drugs to several college students," said Shivdeep Lande, deputy commissioner of police (ANC). Police said that Gupta in front was a vegetable vendor but he used to double as drug peddlers and sell drugs to teenagers.
 
 Gupta also told the modus operandi of drug peddling. He said that initially they supply 6 to 7 doses of MD free of cost to college students until they get addicted to this drugs. Once one boy is addicted in, the gang than gives him lucarative discounts on condition that he pulls his colleagues/friends into it.
 
 They sell MD of 10 gram packet anywhere between 1,000 to 1,500 depending on person to person.Munna gives free drugs to girls and exploits them. He has forced several girls to have physical relations with him for the drugs.'' added another officer. Gupta who is a resident of   in   has also revealed the name of one Lala from Kurla who is also part of the drug cartel.
 
 Police said that due to scarcity and high rates of cocaine in the market, the drug peddlers pump MD which is a substitute of cocaine in the market. TOI had in its April 12 edition title Cocaine peddlers luring young addicts in Mumbai with 'love sips' had reported how the Nigerian nationals in bid to lure college students, initially distribute free love sips (slang for small cocaine sachets).
 
 DCP Lande said the cell alone has arrested 18 Nigerian nationals this year, all of them with some quantity of this 'love sip', which is a new mechanism to get youths hooked. The addiction is so quick and the drug is such a rage among college-going youths that the Nigerians drug peddlers don't have to go to sell the drugs but youngsters come to   in search of them.
 
