NEW DELHI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a 30-year-old man from Himachal Pradesh with one of largest consignments of   — 28kg.

 The contraband was found hidden in a secret cavity created behind the rear door of a Hyundai Accent car that the accused, Rahul Dhiman, was driving. He was supposed to deliver the consignment to a contact in Mathura, who would further distribute it to local dealers for sale to tourists. Officials said the consignment could serve doses for more than 30,000 consumers.
 
 Dhiman owns a transport business based in Kullu. NCB officials said that he operated a fleet of cars that were specially modified to transport drugs while plying tourists to Agra and Mathura. “We have been tracking his movements for some time and placed a trap near the Yamuna bridge. He was caught with a green car that had the drug stuffed inside a cavity in the rear door,” said Madho Singjh, zonal director, NCB.
 
 Dhiman told officials that he was supposed to deliver the consignment to Rustom Pal in Mathura. Pal was also arrested from his hideout. Officials said that they were conducting further raids to identify the other receivers.
 
 It was found that Pal worked as a middleman who would supply the drugs to the ultimate consumers or sellers. Pal also ran a nursery school in Mathura.
 
 The drugs were mainly meant to be converted into Malana cream and sold to foreign tourists at a high price.
 
 It was found that this was the third time Dhiman was supplying a consignment to Pal. He was caught earlier as well but managed to secure a bail. A case under sections of the NDPS Act was registered against him.
 
 NCB officials said that Himachal Pradesh has become a major source of cannabis due to illegal cultivations in its remote areas. According to them, the cultivators secretly process the drugs and supply it to areas having high tourist footfall, including Agra and Mathura.
 
 Officials suspect the role of an organised drug syndicate running in these area that would usually have multiples sources to procure the contraband from these villages.
 
 
