MUMBAI: In a city that moves at supersonic speed, some people still find a way to slow down. One such motley group meets at 7am, three times a week, at the tip of  , where they silently “throw the moon, prop up the sky and walk so softly so that their feet do not leave an imprint on the sand...”

 The group does  , an ancient Chinese martial art that follows the concept of silent defence rather than aggressive offence. “It is  ,” says Rakesh Menon, the teacher. “I like to describe it as silent poetry.”
 
 Some 25 tai chi practitioners celebrated 15 years of the class on Saturday. The group—comprising businesspersons, engineers, shoemakers and homemakers—meets and practises on the road outside  . On rainy days, they move to a neighboring gymkhana.
 
 It all started when businessman Munna Javeri heard a group of martial arts experts speak at one of his midtown Rotary meetings, some 15 years ago. He immediately started his own training, and found subtle but enormous shifts take place in his body, mind and spirit. Within a year, he wanted to give back, so his foundation sponsored a free class on Marine Drive’s ocean-lapped tip, where many city-dwellers come to walk, jog, cycle, meditate, laugh in unison, and basically renew their energies before their day begins. One of the participants got so enthusiastic that he would ask passers-by and walkers to come and try the class. The number swelled up to 35 some weeks, and sometimes, there was just one person, but Menon unfailingly showed up.
 
 “His commitment as a teacher is incredible,” says Vijay Kalanji. “I remember a particularly rainy day where every one but me cancelled, and he still showed up all the way from the suburbs.”
 
 Menon initially trained in kung fu in Mumbai but it would lead to constant injuries. That’s when his teacher suggested tai chi. “I used to think it’s an old man’s game so started doing it half-heartedly. But one fine day, the results started showing. My back pain and knee pain all went. That’s when I started taking it seriously and graduated from advanced courses in Thailand’s Universal Tao Centre and Malaysia’s  . I started teaching across the city—Chembur, Churchgate, Juhu—and found a growing interest. People now understand how this energy is like back-up battery, especially when stress slows you down. They don’t want to do the old kind of gyming,” says Menon. 
 
 Urban planner Shirish Patel felt he was losing his sense of balance and had a fear of falling. “After several years of regular practice, my sense of balance, which was always excellent, has been restored. The practice definitely also increases your concentration and you breathe longer and slower.” 
 
 Tai chi operates on the five key organs of the body—lungs, heart, spleen, liver and kidney—that are related to the five senses, which are in turn connect to the five elements of the universe, says Menon. “Tai chi balances and conditions your physical, mental, medical and spiritual side.”
 
 Menon explains the metaphor of walking softly on the sand so that you don’t leave an imprint. “You cannot disturb nature. You must align with it, your mind, body and spirit. In the walk of your life, you should be aware, humble and walk light and relaxed, so that you don’t disturb any thing around you.” Perhaps that’s when the race stops and your journey really begins. 
 
 
