PUNE: Will putting a cap on the prices of   alone make angioplasties cheaper? Guess not.

 The price of stents are only about 25-40% of the total cost of angioplasties. Hence, patients will not benefit unless the cost of the procedure is also brought down,   told TOI on Friday.
 
 Senior   activist Anant Phadke said, “The government’s move is a welcome step, though we should note that this decision was taken under the pressure of a Delhi high court directive in a public interest litigation (PIL).”
 
 Explaining how only capping the price will not serve the purpose, Phadke said, “As pointed out by an expert sub-committee appointed by the Union government in 2015, stent-cost is only about 25-40% of the total cost of  . Hence, this sub-committee, in whose deliberations more than twenty cardiologists participated, had opined that patients would not benefit unless the procedure cost is also reduced.”
 
 “For this to happen, hospitals’ procedure-charges for conducting angioplasties should be standardized and regulated. Secondly, as suggested by some cardiologists, we should have mandatory Standard Treatment Guidelines to standardize decision-making about when to use or not to use   stents. This would help to reduce unnecessary angioplasties,” said Phadke, who is co-convenor of Jan Arogya Abhiyaan, a statewide network of civil society organisations, activists and doctors.
 
 Phadke said, “A total of 3,53,000 angioplasties were performed in India in 614 hospitals in 2015. Assuming that this decision ( ) would reduce cost of a stent by around Rs 20,000 on an average, these hospitals would face a reduction in their profits from angioplasties by a total of Rs 700 crore. It is unlikely that these hospitals would accept this meekly.”
 
 “It is possible that in coming months, many hospitals will insidiously increase the procedure charges so that their total income from an angioplasty would increase back to the current level,” he said.
 
 Cardiologist Abhijit Vaidya of Arogya Sena said, “There are chances that hospitals would increase charges of other components that feature in an angioplasty procedure bill to compensate for the loss. They may increase hospital component like cath lab fees and even other disposables like charges of catheter and balloon that are used in angioplasty and other medical paraphernalia. Also, there are chances that even doctors would raise their professional fees now to make up for the loss.”
 
 Amit Parab, whose mother underwent angioplasty procedure with two stents at Deenanath Mageshkar hospital on February 14, said, “We have been told by the hospital that we will be charged only Rs 30,000 for every imported stent used in the procedure that would have otherwise cost us Rs 60,0000 in the past.”
 
 
