PATNA: One   (48) of Nawada was arrested from flat number 305 of   in Tilak Nagar under   police station area in the city Monday night for running a   by trapping girls in the name of providing them jobs. A local girl, who is a third year student of a private engineering college in Bhopal, and a woman were in the rented flat when the police raided it on a tip-off. Some objectionable items besides two handwritten papers signed by two girls on revenue stamps were also recovered.
 
  Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said five victim girls have surfaced so far and police were further investigating the case.
  
  Sanjay, masquerading as a CBI inspector, used to lure and blackmail the girls in the name of jobs and force them to sign a declaration on revenue stamps that they would obey him for life and his property would be transferred to the girls after his death. He also threatened the girls to send them and their family members to jail if they tried to disobey him.
  
  Sanjay told the police he run two girls hostel named Saraswati and Seema in the Boring Road locality, but failed to locate them. “He used to run a girls’ hostel in a building, which is now locked, and forced the inmates into flesh trade,” a police source said.
  
  A source said police got a tip-off that boys and girls were frequenting the flat. “Sanjay, along with a girl and a woman, was there. On thorough search, police recovered two handwritten papers with revenue stamps and photographs of two different girls on them and other objectionable objects,” a police officer said.
  
  The source said the girl came in Sanjay’s contact in December last year and was forced into flesh trade. “Sanjay himself exploited the girl on several occasions,” the source said, adding several other girls were trapped into the flesh trade being run by him.
  
  The girl told the police that she was trapped by Sanjay, who posed himself as a CBI inspector and assured her a job. “Later, he forced her to write an undertaking that she will obey his orders,” she told the police
