Do not change the colour of the city's buses: that's the message a   have for the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST). They say that   from   would be akin to changing the character of the city. The feedback is in response to a   conducted by the beleaguered BEST, which is attempting to begin things anew.

 On April 27, BEST had introduced two buses, including an air-conditioned vehicle, on a pilot basis. The buses, part of a month-long survey, featured a new colour scheme, which was designed by a group of JJ School of Art students. BEST's then general manager, Jagdish Patil, had said that the company would make a final decision on the colour after collecting feedback from regular commuters. The survey is nearly complete, and, according to BEST officials, an overwhelming number of commuters still prefer red. 
 "90% of commuters have favoured the original red colour. I, too, prefer it that way. The red   is iconic and an integral part of Mumbai's identity," said Sunil Ganacharya, BEST committee member. His colleague Ravi Raja, too, opted for red. "Though I am waiting for the final report of the survey, I feel that the BEST bus should be red, as it is part of Mumbai's heritage."
 
 It is not clear if the first bus run by the then Bombay Electric and Tramways Co Ltd - the service was from Afghan Church to Crawford Market - was red, but, according to BEST officials, their buses have been red since Independence. When the BMC took over the BEST Company in 1947, 242 buses operated on 23 routes and serviced 2.38 lakh passengers daily. Today, around 4,000 buses ferry 30 lakh passengers on over 500 routes.
 
 The colour change is one among many measures planned by BEST to lift itself out of a deep financial trough. These include providing free Wi-Fi and entertainment options for passengers.
 
 Commuters-speak
 
 BEST's Facebook page has been attracting scores of comments over the last 20-odd days. Several commuters felt that white was not suited to the city, and both pollution and "paan spitters" would ruin it in no time. Plus, there was also the monsoons. "White will not be suitable, and it will add up cleaning and maintenance cost of BEST, which is already running in losses," said Vijay Kulkarni. Another commuter Rupesh Shelathkar said that the "instead of spending on repainting the buses, the undertaking should pay salaries on time to its drivers and conductors. We want BEST buses to be only in red."
 
 Nitanshu Karguthkar was especially annoyed with the proposal. "White colour?? Is BEST really gone mad?? First without introducing new AC buses, you people closed entire AC bus service and now changing colour to white? Does BEST has that state of mind and money to maintain white colour?" he wrote.
 
 Another regular commuter, Ajay Kumar, was of the opinion that the company should "concentrate efforts and resources in improving services so that more people use the service and BEST can come out of the red." Improve service, not colour, said Ankit Deepak Acharya. Among the people who chose w
 
