Lucknow:   may have raised its hostel fee but the condition of the residence halls is pathetic. 

  for both boys and girls are in bad shape with plaster peeling off walls, dirty and damp cobwebbed rooms, garbage heaps and broken washrooms with missing latches, leaking pipelines and algae growth. 
 
 In a reality check, TOI surveyed the hostels which were in no way ready to welcome new students. 
 
 The condition was worst in Habibullah, Mahmudabad and Acharya Narendra Dev hostels where hanging wires, garbage piles, and broken doors and windows await students. The central mess facility for the boys hostels is still not complete.
 
 “Just behind the hostel is a garbage dumping ground where insects and mosquitoes breed. The scene inside is no better,” said Sachin Shukla, a resident of AND hostel. He said last year, windows of rooms were broken. 
 
 “Last year, plaster from the balcony and washroom had fallen on the students leading to injury. Water supply is often scarce and students have to bring cans to meet the need,” said Prabhat from Habibullah hostel. 
 
 He said drainage was so poor that rooms turned into swimming pools in the rainy season. 
 
 “In the name of sports facilities, you will find broken basketball poles and uneven ground,” he added.
 
 The scene in girls’ hostels is no different. In Tilak hostel’s Maitri section, rooms are damp as pipes leak. In Kailash hostel, plaster is peeling off walls while in Golden Jubilee hostel, there is waterlogging due to a leaking tank.
 
 “Many students left the hostel due to the poor facilities. Struggling with poor power and water supply was a daily affair,” said a girl. 
 
 Chief provost Sangeeta Rani tried to stop TOI lensman from capturing the poor condition of Tilak hostel. Later, on the phone, she said, “There is no need to take photos. Come after a month,” and disconnected the call to questions on the condition of the hostels.
 
  spokesperson NK Pandey said, “We will try our best to improve the condition of hostels before allotment.”
 
 
