As Amritha of  ,   became a name to reckon with on the small screen and the audience loved her smile, as much as her character.While the serial and her character has been enjoying envious popularity , the actress also stepped onto the dais of marriage, recently . She speaks to us about her days as Amritha, how the married status has changed her life and moreover, her comeback.

 
 
 
 
 I entered the limelight at the age of four through an umbrella ad. Later, I acted in an art movie, Krishnapaksha Kilikal in 2002, directed by Abraham Lincoln. It was during my college time that I entered the mini-screen through a negative role in the devotional serial, Swamiye Saranamayyappa.
 I got to do many serials also, the role Nancy in one of the popular serials, Autograph, was one among them.
 It is the renowned ac tress-dancer   who recommended my name to play the character of Seetha in the Tamil version of Chandanamazha. It's Sudha ma'am who played my mother-in-law's character in the serial, which was titled Deivam Thandha Veedu in Tamil.
 
 
 
 
 
 I was aware of the storyline of Chandanamazha as I was doing the same serial in Tamil. Thus I was able to do my best for Amritha, and it's heartening that the audience accepted her too. Working in Chandanamazha has been fun too, as the serial's set always has a jovial mood. Once the character struck a chord with the audience, I got to attend quite a few public functions, where I had some touching experiences. Once, an old woman came to me from the crowd and had a friendly conversation with me. She went back asking me to wait for her. After some time she came rushing back to me with something wrapped in a paper. When I opened, it was a bunch of candies that she bought for me. “Molku tharan ente kaiyil ithe ullu....“was the most heart touching lovely feedback I received in my career so far. It showed me her pure and innocent love towards the role I essayed.
 
 
 
 
 
 My husband Don and my sister in law, actress Dimple had a few plans about our wedding to make it special. We shot around 12 pre-wedding videos, on various themes, some of which were also quite funny. In no time, netizens started trolling us with comments of all kinds. Well, neither Don nor I took them seriously and we see it all as part of the fun.
 
 
 
 
 
 My hubby   is a businessman and now we are settled in Thrissur. I am thankful to God for helping me find Don and his family. He is very supportive and gives suggestions in everything, from choosing a costume to acting. Also my in-laws, including Dimple, are quite caring. Even the decisions like the projects that we have to sign are taking into account the opinions of the whole family, which is the strength of our joint family.
 
 
 
 
 
 Post marriage, I took a break from my acting life for almost two months to enjoy the customs of the newlyweds. While quitting Chandanamazha for marriage, I prayed to God to bless me with a project so that I can connect with my loving audience again.
 The happy news is that I will be back to small screen soon through a lovely serial. I can't reveal more about it at the moment, but I can assure that it's a mega Malayalam serial in which I will be doing a positive role. I will be continuing my acting career and also have some stage shows too in my kitty.
 
 
 
 
