Lucknow: BSP chief Mayawati’s Muslim outreach was not restricted to giving maximum tickets to Muslims and placing herself squarely against the BJP. It now transpires that the BSP boss roped in some of her close aides to do the spadework in aligning the minority voters with her party through various means including meeting Muslim clerics and even attending seminars in minority educational institutions like the   (AMU).

 BSP sources said that while   kept up her attack on the BJP leadership on a host of issues, BSP leaders like MLC   and Rajya Sabha MPs SC Mishra and Ashok Siddharth pumped up the party machinery in consolidating the minority vote bank in favour of BSP.
 
 Siddiqui went around distributing a book titled ‘Muslim Samaj Ka Saccha Hitaishi Kaun’ and meeting religious leaders in west UP. He simultaneously got in touch with Rashtriya Ulama Council, Shia Cleric Kalbe Jawwad and Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid. 
 
 Mishra, on the other hand, is learnt to have got in touch with former SP national secretary and chairman of Delhi’s Minority Commission, Kamal Farooqui, who went on to support the BSP. Mishra is also learnt to have played a key role in pulling off the merger with Mukhtar Ansari’s Quami Ekta Dal, as part of an exercise to woo Muslim voters in East UP. The proposed merger of QED with the SP had turned out to be a flashpoint in the feud within the Yadav family.
 
 The recent support by a section of AMU students came through following keen perusal by Ashok Siddharth. The ophthalmologist-turned-politician, Ashok started attending seminars in AMU to meet the students and get a feel of their opinion about the BSP. Sources said that Siddharth, himself a Dalit, attended at least half a dozen AMU seminars, some of them centred on the role of Muslims in politics.
 
 Mayawati has been eyeing the Muslim vote bank to couple it with her core Dalit vote base to return to power in UP. The BSP chief has been of the view that the Dalit-Muslim consolidation could potentially turn out to be formidable in beating her political opponents. As a matter of fact, BSP reached its highest share among Muslim voters in 2012 assembly elections. A survey by CSDS showed that the BSP though got nearly 20% of the Muslim votes but its contribution in seat conversion was almost negligible.
 
 
