PUNE: Son of an   helper from a remote village, Bharat   had everything going for him — a cushy job in one of the largest IT companies and a five-figure salary to boot.

 But Yadav (25) was not one to rest on his laurels. He wanted to do something different. His dream was to join the army. He did take a shot at it but failed to clear the NDA entrance examination in 2010.
 
 Not one to give up, he soldiered on in spite of his pressing job as a systems engineer and managed to crack the Combined Defence Services exam.
 
 So when he told his colleagues at the TCS office in Hinjewadi recently that he was quitting his high-paying job — a dream for many urban youths — to join the Indian Army as an officer, they were surprised to say the least.
 
 But for Yadav clearing the   (SSB) interview was the fulfilment of a long cherished dream. “When I took up the job as a system engineer in 2014 I knew this was not the place I wanted to be for the rest of my life,” he told TOI.
 
 So he started preparing for the CDS exams in 2016. “Initially, it was difficult to find time for the preparation but I managed to come up trumps,” he told TOI.
 
 As the CDS exam tests not only the mental ability of a candidate but also the physical ability as well, Yadav also ran a distance of 3 km every day to remain fit. 
 
 A native of Sutala Budruk village in Khamgaon in Buldhana district, Yadav lost his father when he was in Class V but he did not led the tragedy deter him. A bright student, he cleared the BE examination from Shri Santh Gajanan Maharaj College of Engineering, Shegaon, and got a job at TCS, Hinjewadi in 2014.But the comforts of the IT hub could not prevent him from having a go at the SSB examination in pursuance of his childhood dream to join the Indian Army.
 
 While preparing for the SSB interview, Bharat received valuable guidance from Lt Col   (retd), who runs an academy in the city.
 
 “I mainly helped Yadav to improve on his weak areas but it was his hard work which paid off eventually.” he added.
 
 Bharat ranked 108th out of 153 candidates and will be joining   (OTA), Chennai in the first week of April.
 
 After completing his training at the OTA for 48 weeks, Bharat will be officially commissioned into the Indian Army as a Short Service Commissioned (SSC) officer.
 
 Bharat's elder sister is a nurse at the government medical college while his younger sister has joined Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). His younger brother is a jawan in Corps of Signals with the Army.
 
 Bharat says, he would like to join the infantry arm of the army as it is a field posting.
 
 “I do not want to sit in an office doing monotonous work. I wanted to do something out of the ordinary for the country,” he signed off.
 
