PUNE: From the time taken for a voter to cast his or her vote to whether the board or banners outside   have the details of all the candidates contesting the elections and the overall understanding of the four-ward system by the voter will be part of a detailed study that   will undertake on Tuesday.

 Nearly 13,000 voters will be part of the sample survey in the five corporations of Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur and Amravati. The study has been assigned by the state election commission to the institute. Five zilla parishads of Pune, Nashik, Amravati, Nagpur and Raigad will also be part of the study. 
 
 With this being the first time a   has been introduced, the institute has deployed over 500 students to cover particular booths in the city, PCMC and other civic bodies and conduct a survey on the day of polling.
 
 Project coordinator Manasi Phadke told TOI that they have done a pre-survey ahead of the elections which had highlighted missing names in the voters’ list as the reason for not voting in the earlier elections. 
 
 “The second part of the survey will focus on the voters’ understanding of the four-panel ward system and the ease of voting with the overall experience of voting,” she said.
 
 Questions on the overall cleanliness of the polling booths, special facilities for the handicapped, overall experience and how many times has a person voted for the civic elections are part of the detailed questionnaire that will be analysed by the institute.
 
 It will be the first time that the state election commission has sought details of the affidavits of the candidate on the boards outside the polling booths. 
 
 The age, assets, educational qualifications and criminal records, if any, will be put up outside the polling stations. The survey would question the voter about these affidavits and whether it helped take an informed decision about the right candidate.
 
 The commission had introduced the new systems for the voter to understand the candidate they vote for. They had also suggested videos of candidates to be uploaded on the website and even share the affidavits in the newspapers rather than just put it up at the main ward office.
 
 Phadke said the detailed study will help understand the issues after the four-ward system and how much the voter has been made aware of it. “All aspects will be covered and a detailed report readied for all the five corporations and submitted to the SEC,’’ Phadke said.
 
