Pune: In 1997, a 20-year-old army   K.N. Reddy injured his spine while going for field firing exercise at Pokhran firing range in Rajasthan.

 But the brave soldier never let the injury get the better of him and continued to strive hard in various sports and won over 50 medals in shot put, and discus throw in various national events since 2002.
 
 Reddy maintained his consistency this year too and won gold and silver medals in discus throw and shot put respectively in the recently concluded 17 th National Para Athletics Championship at Jaipur, Rajasthan.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Reddy, said, “This tournament reminded me of the accident, which took place 15 years ago in the same state. But, this time I returned with pleasant memories as I won medals in both sports.”
 
 Reddy won the gold in discus throw with a throw of 19.25 m and won the silver with a throw of 6.45m in shot put.
 
 Commenting on his preparations, Reddy said, “Preparing without a coach is always tough but I never paid much heed to this aspect. I have adopted certain tactics by watching videos on the mobile. I also give importance to physical fitness so I could maintain my confidence and consistency in sports.”
 
 Originally from Mahbubnagar district in Telangana, Reddy had joined the mechanised infantry of the Indian Army in 1994.
 
 “It was my dream to join the army so I had joined the National Cadets Corps while in school. In the very first attempt, I was recruited in the force,” Reddy says.
 
 However, in November 1997, an army vehicle in which Reddy was travelling along with other soldiers to Pokhran firing range, toppled in the desert. He was trapped under the ammunition and weapons, which injured his spinal cord.
 
 In 2001, Reddy came to the Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC) of the army at Khadki and has been actively involved in sports since then.
 
 Medial director of PRC says that the centre’s endeavour was to provide better facilities to its inmates, including sports facilities. Hence, players from the centre win medals in national and international events consistently.
 
 The PRC has in-house badminton and basketball courts, swimming pool and open ground for inmates.
 
 
