MUMBAI: Police on Wednesday nabbed a school dropout and a college dropout for stealing a Honda Activa scooter parked on the road near Sarvodaya Hotel, Andheri (East) on January 16. The duo (aged 15 and 16 years) has stolen at least nine scooters in the last one month using a ‘master key’ which they used to unlock all Honda Activa scooters. 

 Based on the complaint, Andheri senior inspector Pandit Thorat led a team—inspector Rajiv Chavan, sub-inspector Vasant Pawar and detection staff—that kept a watch for three days and finally caught the two who were found driving around in Andheri (East) on the latest stolen Activa.
 
 The boys stole scooters to impress their friends (especially girls) from the locality. Even their friends would borrow the stolen scooters for a ride or for some work. At night, the duo parked the stolen scooters close to their residences, but away from their homes in Andheri (East), so that their families wouldn’t learn of their activities.
 
 Their luck ran out when Andheri police managed to get hold of the day’s closed circuit television ( ) footage of the area near the hotel, which showed the duo stealing the scooter. 
 
 During their probe, police came to know the duo has been involved in more than nine such vehicle thefts which they had committed at various places like Mahim, Andheri, Jogeshwari, Versova and Dahisar, over the last two months. Seven scooters were recovered from them. Two of the stolen vehicles were abandoned by the two when stopped at nakabandis and police are now trying to locate them.
 
 They were involved in thefts for the last one year. “The manufacturer of such scooters should come out with a solution because the duo was using a key which could easily unlock Activa scooters. No one suspected them because bystanders thought the boys were taking away their bike,” said Thorat.
 
 On Wednesday, the police team that was searching for the stolen Activa noticed a vehicle with the same registration number and matched the faces of the duo with the CCTV footage. But when police signalled them to stop, they sped away from Andheri (East) railway station. The police chased them to Jogeshwari from where they took the   and headed to Goregaon when they were finally intercepted. The duo has been booked under the IPC for theft. They were released on bail after being produced before the juvenile board at Dongri.
 
 
