AURANGABAD: The Beed police seized Rs 9.5 lakh in the   of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 from a youth hailing from Aurangabad on Saturday.

 The cash is suspected to be a part of Rs 1 crore in scrapped notes belonging to a  , who was allegedly robbed by the youth and his accomplices.
 
 City   confirmed to TOI that an investigation has been ordered into the case, although the trader has not lodged any complaint. "Around Rs 1 crore in scrapped notes was snatched from the unidentified businessman, and investigations are on," he said.
 
 Assistant police inspector Dilip Tejankar of Chaklambas police station in Beed said a car (MH-21-V7802) was intercepted by a police team while it was heading towards Gevrai (Beed) from Shevgaon (Ahmednagar).
 
 "We seized 500 notes in the scrapped Rs 1,000 currency and 900 pieces of the demonetised Rs 500 notes from the car, which was being driven by Zameer Khan (25) of Naregaon in Aurangabad," he said.
 
 The officer said that a communication has been sent to the   for further probe into the notes seizure.
 
 "Zameer was detained after he failed to give a satisfactory reply about the source of the demonetised currencies. The possibility of the suspect and his accomplices possessing more such notes cannot be ruled out," said Tejankar.
 
 A city police official told TOI that the trader was offered a deal by some people to exchange demonetised currency notes with new ones for a commission earlier this week.
 
 "The trader, who had about Rs 1 crore in the scrapped Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes, through one Yogesh contacted Zameer Khan, who is on police record for thefts, and his accomplice Fazal Khan, a resident of Rehmaniya Colony. The deal was brokered for Rs 50 lakh in valid currency notes against Rs 1 crores in scrapped notes," said the police official.
 
 "On the night of February 21, Yogesh and the trader came with the cash on a moped near a beer bar close to the Central Naka based graveyard. Later, the trader sat in a car brought by Zameer and Fazal, who pushed him out of the car and drove off," the official added.
 
 A sleuth from detection branch of the city police said, "We are investigating if Zameer handed over the cash to one Salim Stepney, who is a police informer."
 
