GHAZIABAD: Massive power outages were reported from Ghaziabad on Thursday even as   remained low owing to cold weather conditions. Officials of the power discom, Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), attributed the power failure to the rain that lashed the city during the latter half of the day.

 Outages, however, were reported from noon onwards in the trans-Hindon areas as well as in parts of old Ghaziabad. In Indirapuram, electricity supply was erratic from the morning till late in the afternoon. Residents of highrise apartments in the trans-Hindon areas, who chose to stay indoors owing to the inclement weather, complained of supply getting disrupted frequently throughout the day.
 
 RWAs and AOAs of several areas tried contacting power department officials over the outages. However, there was no satisfactory reply on the cause of the outages. By evening, several residents started tweeting about the massive outages. 
 
 They tagged the tweets with the official Twitter handles of UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, Union power minister Piyush Goyal, the UP chief minister’s office, Ghaziabad MP Gen V K Singh (Retd) and UP Power Corporation Limited amongst others.
 
 The Twitter outrage finally got the authorities in Ghaziabad to take cognisance of the situation.
 
 “Power cut off in Ghaziabad smart city. Today  , but black day for Ghaziabad,” tweeted Premchand Kumar using the handle @premchand79.
 
 “10 hours of   in Ghaziabad. Republic Day Special Gift,” tweeted Ankiit Koomar using the handle @AnkiitKoomar.
 
 Streetlights in several areas of Ghaziabad did not light up in the evening owing to the power failures.Residents of Sahibabad area posted photographs of dark streets and alleys on Twitter tagging the official handle of the district magistrate of Ghaziabad.
 
 “Blackout … No electricity for hours at many places in Ghaziabad .. This is main road Shalimar Garden,” tweeted Rajesh Kumar Sinha using the handle @iamrajeshsinha along with a photograph of a dark street.
 
 Officials said they have taken cognisance of the flood of complaints on Twitter. Though there were complaints of outages from several parts of the city, power department officials told TOI complaints were received mainly from Sector 6 and Sector 9 of Vasundhara besides Govindpuram in old Ghaziabad. “The faults will be fixed by tonight,” PVVNL chief engineer S K Gupta said.
 
