JAISALMER: Flood threat looms over Barmer district which on late Friday evening received another spell of heavy rains. An alert has been raised for Kawas, which was one of the worst affected villages in the 2006 flash floods and people living in the low lying areas here have been directed to move. 

 Since June 1, Barmer has received 474mm rainfall, much above the desert district's average rainfall of 295 mm for the season.
 
 The district administration rescue team has shifted over 2,500 villagers to safer places. Rise in the water level in   has led to flooding of several villages in Gudamalani and Dhorimanna. Due to continuous rains, people of three villages of Gudamalani are shifted to safer place. Also National Disaster Response Force was called to rescue 10 people who were struck in Gandhav village. District Administration team is continuously making efforts from last one week completely in rescuing the people.
 
 Flooding at   at Bhadres in Barmer, forced shutting of its four of 180 MW units.
 
 Barmer district collector Shiv Prasad Nakate said that the heavy rains, which continued for about four hours on Friday late evening, added to the woes. Many villages and hamlets in Sheo sub division were severely water-logged and small ponds and water bodies in the area flooded. Rescue teams were rushed to the spots.
 
 He said over 250 villagers including families from Jalipa Siyago ki Dhani, Bhadres, Vishala, Lakhedari and other villages and hamlets were rescued and moved to safer places. "Water has entered into power plant of RajWest and efforts are being made to pump out the water. Only one unit of 120 Mw is functioning,'' he said.
 
 Nakate said water through the Rohli river is flowing towards Kawas, and if rains continue, Kawas might again face a flood. Army, police, ndrf teams are helping administration in rescue operations. The eight camels, who were stuck in the Luni river for the past four days, were finally rescued by the   and district administration teams. Meanwhile, the local administration has begun with the survey of damage on crops and property.
 
 Heavy rains also lashed Jaisalmer Fatehgarh, Devikot, Sankada, Rajmathai and other areas.One Bolero Vehicle was struck in rainy water in between Devikot and Fatehgarh which was rescued the local police.
 
 Meanwhile many electricity poles at Sam, Harnau, Dabadi, Lunar and other areas fell due to the heavy rain, due to which these villages have no electricity.
 
