NEW DELHI: The   has invoked the   against defence dealer   and has identified his assets, including several immovable properties in Delhi-NCR and abroad, for attachment.

 According to a top officer of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, the administrative authority of the income tax department, officers investigating the case have prepared a list of properties belonging to Bhandari and his associates and will soon start attachment proceedings. Many of these properties are situated in posh south Delhi localities and in Gurgaon.
 
 Bhandari is currently believed to be in London. The CBI had recently forwarded a request to the Interpol from the Delhi police crime branch, the other agency investigating Bhandari under the Official Secrets Act, for a Red Corner Notice against him seeking his arrest.
 
 The defence dealer is also facing a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act by the Enforcement Directorate which is probing him for alleged money laundering and acquisition of assets abroad. Bhandari had managed to flee the country recently just after the Delhi police booked him under the OSA.
 
 The I-T department had earlier questioned him in connection with tax evasion. But now it has decided to incoke the provisions of the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 in addition to the tax evasion case.
 
 Last year, in June, the I-T department had briefly impounded Bhandari’s passport after he had failed to join the investigation despite repeated summons issued to him. The tax department had during a search on his premises in April last year found some classified defence ministry documents. The agency had also approached the defence ministry for certain documents pertaining to the Rs 2,800 crore deal for Pilatus trainer jets and some others in which Bhandari's companies were allegedly linked.
 
 Bhandari and his associates are under investigation for benami properties in London suspected to be purchased for some of his political contacts.
 
 
