BHUBANESWAR: To fulfill the shortage of trained primary teachers in the state, the   (IGNOU) has proposed the Odisha government to make   (CCG) mandatory for primary school teachers in government schools. The course has been developed in collaboration with the National Council for Education Research and Training ( ). It covers important aspects of teacher's training course. 

 Several states, including Chhattisgarh, have made this course mandatory for untrained teachers in government schools. The NCERT has developed the course keeping in mind shortage of trained teachers in schools. "The state government has been spending lakhs of rupees in training in-service teachers, which can be solved by this course," said  , director, IGNOU, Bhubaneswar centre. "We have given the proposal to the state government for many months ago but things are not moving in the right direction," he added. 
 
 He said, the six-month duration course has covered many important subjects like understanding the psychology of 8 to 14-year-old children, understanding the need of girls, tribal children and physically-challenged children. 
 
 Director of elementary education   said, "The state government has sought the permission from the ministry of human resources development, GOI and we are waiting for the approval to make the course mandatory for teachers."
 
 He admitted that the course will be beneficial to the government in many ways because the intake capacity of teachers training institutes in the state is not adequate as per the need. 
 
 The GOI has asked the state government to give training to all untrained teachers in primary and secondary school as per the right to education mandate. At present, more than 12,000 untrained teachers are still waiting for training.
 
 Government has been giving training to teachers in a phased manner. But it is taking a lot of time and not up to the mark. "If IGNOU has some course which is on a par with certificate teachers training courses then it should be accepted by the government," said Sabita Sahu, teacher in an elementary school.
 
