 

 
 The concept of community   has been gaining ground in larger cities across the country. And   has followed suit, its first   (Any Time Meal) started by a group of school students at Anmol Sagar Building, Palasia. Operating for two months in the city, the idea is simple. You place any extra food or edibles that you have in the refrigerator and it stays safe till someone who is in need of it can pick it up. Now, the students who started the project are planning to make the concept more viable. They are reaching out to societies and restaurateurs to donate surplus food and guide beggars and those in need to the food ATM.
 
  
  
 
 Hardik Kataria, a class 12 student and the mind behind the   shares, “A housing society can contribute to bear the expenses of buying a refrigerator and operating it. In June, a second Food ATM has been started by Elite Anmol Society near Bengali Square. The initial cost and the payment to the guard who looks into the smooth functioning of the ATM is being borne by the society. We are approaching more societies to join us.” Both the food ATMs in Indore are now being manned by two security guards for a minimal remuneration. Michael D’souza, one of the guards shares, “Around 30-35 people come to take food from the refrigerators in a day. And the people living in the area come to drop off excess food.” Part of the guards’ duty is to check the quality of the food that is donated to the ATM, to ensure no stale or spoilt food goes in. Disposable plates and packets are kept handy. Sankalp Swarnkar, who works at a company near the food ATM shares, “Six of us from my office have decided to bring one extra roti each every day to keep in the ATM during lunch time.”
 Jay Chandwani, volunteer adds, "Some restaurant and marriage garden owners have become regulars in donating food. At sandwich stalls, the first and last slices of bread from a loaf are not used. We have been collecting these for the ATM. And on days when the donated food is not exhausted, we feed it to the stray animals.”
 
 
 
 The young volunteers are conducting door-to-door drives and have been distributing pamphlets to at eateries, traffic signals, marriage halls, etc, urging people to donate extra food and guide beggars to the food ATMs. Vijay Singh, who runs a hot-dog joint shares, “56 Dukaan is not only crowded with visitors and food lovers but equally with poor people. We tell the beggars to go to food ATM rather than troubling visitors.” With help from a few NGOs who work with underprivileged children, there are now 40 volunteers working on the initiative. These volunteers have been conducting food drives on Sundays where these children are given a treat of dishes that are otherwise not accessible to them. “A burger or a soft drink brings puts a big smile on the faces of these children. Such items are a luxury for them,” shares Vishisht Lalwani, a volunteer.
 
  
  
 
 
 
