The department of  , Karnataka, recently issued a circular to all Bengaluru-based State government degree colleges to start their classes early in the day at 8 am. Though not widely reported, the circular had additional instructions that require colleges to schedule longer semesters with shorter weekdays — an increase from the current practice of 90 working days per semester to a much longer 110 days. Initiated with the belief that modern education hasn’t kept pace with the learning abilities of today’s students, the department aims at adding more scope to classroom learning through changed schedules, giving room for more opportunities revolving around foreign languages, computer skills, certificate courses, or other such course material.
 
  
 
  
  “Colleges starting early would automatically mean that they end earlier in the day as well, which would leave students with ample time to focus on their other interests and extracurricular activities. Plus, afternoons are usually slow and draining, so a lot of us find it easier to focus in the mornings. Earlier start   for   would then not only ensure that the learning process is more effective, but also mean more productive use of the same amount of study hours”
  — Saakshi Kumar, second-year media student at a city college
  
  “Today, we have to do external certificate courses to stay relevant in the job market. If our colleges can leverage the extended timings and give us additional meaningful subjects or skills, we will be better prepared. I am looking forward to seeing how best I can use this extra time we will get during the day”
  — Ritwik Rajesh, who is pursuing his third year in computer applications
  
  
 
  
  “As it is, I need to change three buses at times to reach college from my home in Doddaballapur and I have to start at 6.30 am so that I can make it by 9 am. This new ruling literally requires me to start off very early — maybe by 5.30 am or so. I don’t think I will be getting much sleep this year.”
  — Maroof Kibria, a third year arts student from a government college located in Kaval Byrasandra
  
  “We are told that the semesters will get longer and this will mean we will have much shorter vacation time. I am staying with my uncle in the city and had plans to spend extended time with my parents during the vacation times. If our vacations are cut, students like me will be highly inconvenienced”
  — Nihar J, sophomore student at a city-based commerce college
  
  
 
  
  “First, a lot of students in government degree colleges do not necessarily come from a wealthy background. So, starting classes earlier, from 8 am, allows them to work part-time in the latter half of the day, which would go a long way in helping them manage their finances. Additionally, transportation becomes much easier, since traffic would hardly be a problem at the newly set timings”
  — Nagaraju L, lecturer at Rajajinagar PU and Degree College
  
  “We should not look at the change in college timings as an isolated notification. There is a lot of thinking behind the move by the department (of Collegiate Education) to alter the current methodology of course dispensation. There is a concrete emphasis on giving students more time to understand the subject concepts well, rather than just cram their lessons for the sake of exams. Faculty members would welcome this move, as it gives us lot of time to not only prepare our lectures, but to also have meaningful internal assignments and assessments done for the students”
  — Sudha Rajendra, a Commerce lecturer at one of the State-run Government colleges
  
  The initiative taken by the department of Collegiate Education seems to be a well thought-out action indeed. But, as with all changes, it is
  |fraught with resistance. Time will tell if the intent behind the changes does result in the targeted changes towards providing a more
  holistic education for modern students. Share your opinions with us, mail us on bangalore.times@timesgroup.com
  
  - Sanjana Sindhe
  
