AGRA: An eight-foot-long Indian Rock python was rescued by the Wildlife SOS rapid response unit from the Gangajal   site, near Babarpur Forest, in Sikandra, Agra. The large reptile was found to be unhurt and has been safely released back into its natural habitat.

 On Monday morning, construction workers at the Gangajal   project site were left in a state of shock after discovering a   in the premises. The reptilian visitor was spotted near the large pipelines being laid for the Bulandsheher-Agra water supply project near Babarpur forest in Sikandra, Agra. The ongoing construction was brought to a three-hour halt. Considering the safety of workers at the site as well as that of the reptile, Trivendra Kumar, safety officer, immediately called the forest department, which in turn alerted Wildlife SOS. 
 
  
  A team comprising two snake rescue experts from the wildlife conservation NGO was promptly dispatched to the location. After ensuring that the workers were at a safe distance, they managed to successfully extricate the distressed reptile from the nearly 14 foot deep trench. 
 
 Trivendra Kumar, safety officer on site, said, “The workers were laying the underground pipelines when one of them spotted the python and he rushed to alert us all. The Wildlife SOS team was quite efficient and carried out the rescue operation with ease”.
 
 Baiju Raj, director conservation projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “The construction site is located in the vicinity of Babarpur forest in Baipur Range. Therefore, the python must have wandered out of the forest. It was kept in observation for some time after which the python was carefully released back in to its natural habitat”.
 
  “We are glad to see that people are becoming more sensitized towards these largely misunderstood reptiles and that instead of taking matters into their own hands, they immediately report such incidents to the authorities. Sensitive rescues such as this one require patience and skill and we have professionally trained rescuers who are experienced in handling these snake rescues” stated Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder of Wildlife SOS.
 
 
