MEERUT: A 10-year-old boy was critically injured after he fell from the terrace of his school building in the city on Wednesday. While administration of the   said the boy   fell while playing with his friends, the family claimed that the accident took place because no teacher was assigned to look after the students. Doctors said Aditya, who is currently on ventilator support, suffered severe swelling and blood clots in his brain, including multiple fractures in his skull. 

 A student of Class V, Aditya fell off from the terrace around seven in the morning even as the school starts at 7.30 am. “Around 7 am, Aditya fell while trying to catch a ball. A Class IX student rushed to his rescue and he was later taken to the   here. We contacted his family after giving him first aid. He was then shifted to the   instead,” said Brij Bhhushan Bansal, principal, S D Inter College. 
 
 The school building has three floors. While classes are conducted on the ground and first floor, the second or top floor, which has a three-foot high boundary wall surrounding it, is used for school assembly purposes. Students often play on the terrace during recess, informed authorities. 
 
 Sangeeta Verma, mother of Aditya, said, “Why were students allowed to play on the terrace when the school cannot provide adequate protection? At the time of admission, we were told that school authorities were very strict about play timings and areas in which students were allowed to play games. Aditya is four-foot tall and the terrace’s boundary wall is three-foot high. He could not have fallen unless pushed by someone.” 
 
 Dr Ahkam Khan, emergency medical officer at the Anand Hospital, said, “Aditya suffered multiple fractures in his skull along with swelling and blood clots in his brain. He has been put on ventilator support and his condition continues to remain critical.”
 
 The family said a police complaint will soon be filed against school authorities. Pankaj Pant, station officer, Sadar police station, said, “The case is in our knowledge and we have done preliminary investigations but no action can be taken until a case has been filed in this matter. Once an FIR is registered, we will investigate the case accordingly and take action.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Sangeeta Verma was at home when she got a call from the school administration informing about Aditya’s accident. “I admitted Aditya and his elder brother Rishabh to Sanatan Dharma Inter College. They were studying in a private school but I thought education in a government school will help cut expenses a bit. Now, it seems that it was the biggest mistake of my life. I hope he recovers from the injuries soon,” said Sangeeta, with tears in her eyes.
 
 Aditya Verma, a bright student of Class V, was recently transferred from BDS International School in   and admitted to SD Inter College. “He did not have to appear in the entrance test because of his excellent records,” said Brij Bhushan Bansal, principal, SD Inter College.
 
 Sangeeta and her husband have been separated for a while and she is the lone bread winner for the three members. 
 
 “As soon as he gains consciousness, Aditya will reveal details about the incident. The school authorities has been negligent in not appointing a teacher to look after students,” she added. 
 
 It should be noted that the school has 5,000 students from Class I to Class XII. While Classes I to V are conducted on the first floor, Class VI to Class XII are run on the ground floor. The terrace acts as a space for school assemblies and recess cum playground area, Bansal said.
 
 “I think my Aditya would have been playing in front of my eyes and not on the hospital bed, had I not changed his school. I am just worried for his health right now,” said Sangeeta.
 
 
