CHENNAI: An   conductor who used a loophole in the working system and sought to portray his on-duty working period as a superhuman 131-hour ordeal has found himself at the receiving end. His petition was quashed by the MTC officials and he has been placed under suspension along with a friend, also a conductor.

 Technically, a conductor’s working day end’s only after he/she submits the daily collections to the depot concerned. In this case, A Murugan was hospitalised for a four days after a confrontation with higher-ups and could not submit the collection after one day’s work, leading to the ‘extraordinary’ 131-hour duty. All these details came to light when Murugan, a conductor on route 71E , submitted a grievance petition to MTC, saying they (he and the driver) were unable to complete the mandatory 10 trips per day on the route because of a technical glitch on August 23.
 
 The two bus crew members who started work around six that morning were able to complete only nine trips before the deadline (around 11 pm). But, depot authorities refused to accept the day's collection citing department rules.
 
 This allegedly led to an confrontation and having worked for nearly 16 hours without sufficient break, Murugan fainted at the depot. His friend Babu Raj, another MTC conductor from  , rushed to the spot and took him to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital.
 
 Hospital records suggest that he was treated in the in-patient ward of the hospital for three days. All this while, he had the ticket fare collection and the Electronic Ticketing Machine (ETM) under his possession.
 
 Five days later, on August 28, he arrived at   depot to submit the cash and ETM again. Upon his request again being refused, Murugan approached the MTC headquarters on Pallavan Salai. After an inquiry, MTC authorities concluded that the fault was on the conductor and placed him under suspension.
 
 “This is third time in a row that Murugan has not submitted fare collection (for 10 trips). He threatened the authorities who questioned his irregularities,” said a senior MTC official who examined the complaint.
 
 Murugan’s friend Babu Raj was also suspended on charges of mistreating authorities at the depot. “I was no way connected to what happened before the confrontation. The corporation has framed false charges against me to silence the voice of its employees,” said Raj.
 
