AMRAVATI: The lotus bloomed at   as the   (BJP) emerged the single largest party, winning 45 of 87 seats.

 Barring the Muslim dominated pockets, the BJP won at least one seat in almost every prabhag. In Shegaon, Mahendra Colony-New Cotton Market and Gadgadeshwar prabhags, BJP swept all four seats.
 
 Equally striking was the performance of AIMIM, which won 10 seats, including all four in Chhayanagar-Gawalipura prabhag, to spell doom for the Congress. The Congress was reduced to just 15 seats while NCP was totally wiped out.
 
 The BJP wave swept away stalwarts like sitting mayor Rina Nanda and party leader Avinash Mardikar, both of Congress. BJP’s opposition leader Sanjay Agrawal too lost by 849 votes to a strong independent in Dinesh Boob from Jawahar Stadium prabhag, where all other BJP candidates posted impressive wins. Rita Sunil Padole had been elected unopposed, a first in the history of  .
 
 The BJP wave did not spare even the Shiv Sena, which could win just seven seats.
 
 Former mayor and ex-standing committee chairman Vilas Ingole of Congress scripted history by winning his sixth straight election from Jawahar Gate-Budhwara prabhag. His fellow Congress candidate Sunita Bhele too retained her seat while BJP picked up the remaining two through Sangita Burange and Yuva Morcha chief Vivek Kaloti. BJP bigwig Tushar Bhartiya also posted a massive win from Sainagar.
 
 In Sant Gadgebaba-PDMC prabhag, Balu Bhuyar of BJP, contesting his sixth election, won for the fourth time along with colleague Chandur Bomare while Shiv Sena and Congress took the remaining two seats. Here Abhay Dhobale of Congress won by a narrow margin of 38 votes.
 
 AIMIM picked up three seats each from Jamil Colony and Old City Badnera prabhags while sweeping all four in Chhayanagar-Gawalipura. It had fielded 14 candidates and 10 of them won.
 
 MLA Ravi Rana’s Yuva Swabhiman Party could manage just three wins on debut, two from SRPF-Wadali and one from Sutgirni prabhag. BSP won five seats including the one of ex-deputy mayor Chetan Pawar, a former NCP man. RPI(A) too won one seat.
 
 The Congress, which had won 25 seats in 2012, was hit hard by AIMIM, which made a deep dent in its Muslim vote bank. However, led by Bablu Shekhavat and Sheikh Jafar in Jog Stadium-Chaprasapura and Chhayanagar-Gawalipura prabhags respectively, it swept all four seats, which saved its face.
 
 
 
 BJP wins absolute majority
 
 BJP 45
 
 Congress 15
 
 MIM 10
 
 Shivsena 7
 
 BSP 5
 
 Yuva Swabhiman 3
 
 RPI(A) 1
 
 Independent 1
 
 
