HYDERABAD: Arundhati Jac ob's daughter w a ke s u p at 6.30am and rushes through her mor ning routine to catch her school bus an hour later. The sevenyear-old spends close to an hour on the bus as it weaves through colonies picking up others. The return journey in the evening is equally tedious. This, despite her school being only 3km away. 

 Many other children in the city have it worse.
 
 Most city schoolchildren travel 12-17km every day, with travel 12-17km every day, with some having to cover as much as 40km to reach any of the inter national or concept schools that have become a rage. Unlike older schools in the core city, these schools have come up on the outskirts, especially in the expanding western zone. They also boast of updated infrastructure and comprehensive syllabi such as   (IB), making it an attractive option for parents.
 
 This has led to school buses making long commutes, which take a huge toll on the mental and physical health of students. “I recently came across a class 8 student whose grades had suddenly fallen. The child was irritable and the parents were worried. He had been shifted to an international school 20 km away from his house a few months before he was brought to me. After a few sessions, the child finally started talking and said he was unable to pursue his hobby, drawing. It was this that led to depression,“ said Dr  , consultant psychiatrist.
 
 Apart from loss of play time, long bus rides also lead to health issues. “Children are forced to wake up early and do not get adequate sleep. The 2-4 hour travel causes fatigue.Sitting in improper posture for a long time heralds backaches and neck pains. Also, kid stendtous electronic gadgets during travel, which strains the eyes,“ said Dr Rahul Agarwal, senior physician.
 
 “I opted for a concept school closer to my house as I wanted my child to have a balance between studies and playtime. I don't believe that sending children only to the most sought-after school makes their career,“ said Vibha Sethi, a parent.
 
 Varalakshmi Mougali, principal of  , said that distance from home impacts the academic performance.“Long-distance travel is not advisable for young children in particular,“ she said.
 
 Early school bus timings add pressure on parents too, especially if both are working professionals. They often end up giving packaged food or quick-fix meals to children, which can lead to vitamin deficiencies and obesity.
 
 Effect on personal lives aside, long bus rides add to traffic congestion. Over 12,000 school buses criss-cross the city every day, three times the number of RTC buses. About 70% of the trips made by them are long-distance, sometimes for just one child.
 
 “Not only is the number of school buses increasing but also the number of hours they spend navigating the roads. Even with the traffic police ensuring that school timings do not coincide with the rush hour, a large number of buses still hold up traffic,“ said T Raghunath, joint transport commissioner (admin).
 
 Experts now advocate the implementation of a school 'neighbourhood policy', as followed in cities like Delhi, to end the commute problem. The policy limits the admission of students to schools within small radial distances of their homes.
 
