LUCKNOW: Eighteen-year-old Shivam Mishra from Gorakhpur wants to be an IAS officer. Scoring 72% in class XII from   stream, Shivam has now changed his preference and enrolled himself in Bachelor of   (BA) at the prestigious National PG College. “For civil services, humanities is the best stream. Subjects - political science, geography and economics - which I have got in the   are scoring,” Shivam said, adding, it’s only because of his father, he took science in school and appeared for a   entrance exam too, but he was always inclined towards humanities. 

 Not only Shivam, but at NPGC, 90% students have changed their preference — from physics, chemistry and mathematics in class XII to economics, political science/psychology, and English, the most popular combinations in graduation at NPGC. Out of 445 seats in BA at NPGC, 403 are occupied by those who studied science in class XII. There are 18 students who had commerce in class XII but have decided to pursue BA in graduation. Only 24 students, shows the data, are originally from humanities in graduation.
 
 “In class XII, I was forced to study science because my school had no humanities stream. So, soon after I finished school, I opted for humanities as I aspire for civil services. I never had much interest in science,’’ said Avantika Gidwania, a resident of Balrampur district, who scored 91% in class 12. At NPGC’s entrance test, Avantika bagged 28th rank. 
 
 Similar is the case with Rahul Kumar, a science student who scored 80% in class XII. “My goal is to crack civil services. And therefore, I switched to humanities. Also, it’s the humanities stream which is producing toppers, right from intermediate to civil services,” said Rahul who hails from Sitapur district, and has secured 42nd rank in BA at NPGC. He added, “Science is also tough to understand and is beneficial to those who want to qualify engineering or medical exams.” 
 
 Liberal arts, for Yashi Mishra is helpful in cracking civil services. Securing 9th rank in BA entrance test at NPGC, Yashi said, “Humanities is fascinating. And when, one has to become an IAS officer, it is the bets stream.’’ 
 
 Rakesh Jain, the   coordinator at NPGC, says that if the trend continues, it can be dangerous. “We enquired all students about changing their preference, and they had two reasons. First, they aspire for civil services, and second, they find science difficult. The decline in science stream is a matter of concern. It’s time, educators should think of making science interesting,” Jain said. 
 
 Associate professor of psychology at Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Kanika Ahuja, puts the situation where science students are seen drifting away from core Bachelor of Science (BSc) course. “For science students who don’t want to get into engineering or medicine, BSc is not a popular choice. They tend to shift to humanities as it is the better bet. With humanities, students can make a career in different fields like media, international relations, civil services,” Ahuja said. 
 
 She added, the entrance exam at NPGC which consists of reasoning and numericals too, apart from questions of general studies, might also be a reason for more students from science stream making to humanities. 
 
 
