NEW DELHI: For three years after its foundation was laid, the   at   in   has remained a distant dream. In the meantime, the   there continues to take a toll of lives. The response to an RTI query showed that in the past seven years, 436 people have lost their lives, while 78 have been injured while crossing the railway line.

 Conceptualised in 2014, the underpass was meant to enable people to cross the railway track safely while decongesting the area. The   was to have taken up the project. But with no money to spare, it passed the onus to the urban development department of Delhi government.
 
 “People are losing their lives while crossing the railway line,” complained Hashish Kumar, a Prem Nagar resident. He explained that people crossed the railway tracks because taking the road to reach the nearest metro station or bus stop would mean a detour of at least half an hour.
 
 A senior north civic body official claimed, “The corporation initially submitted Rs 40 lakh for planning and survey charges in 2015. However, due to financial problems we could not take up the project and requested Delhi government to provide financial aid. However, no funds have been sanctioned till now.”
 
 A letter dated November 4, 2016, written by the engineer-in-chief of the north corporation to principal secretary of the urban development department, said, “There is a constant demand from the residents of the area to construct railway under bridge (RUB)because they often face difficulty crossing the railway line to reach Rama Road. This is dangerous to human safety also.”
 
 The letter said land falling in the alignment of the RUB would need to be acquired, so the cost of the project would be Rs 128 crore plus Rs 58 crore for land acquisition.
 
 The urban development department wrote to PWD, directing it to undertake the project as per directions. However, senior PWD officials maintained that the public works agency could not allocate funds to a municipal corporation. 
 
 “The funds for RUBs and ROBs come from the central government. Under one scheme, the central government bears 80% of the project cost, with the rest allocated by the agency involved. We were intimated about the project by Delhi government, but allocation of funds can only be done by the government,” a senior PWD official pointed out.
 
 An official from Delhi government, however, said that he was unaware of the specific project, but added that as a matter of principle, the urban development department was not involved with land acquisition. He also said there was no compulsion on the department to pay for some other agency’s project.
 
 
