NAGPUR: A high-level committee headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has given its in-principle approval for the tourism and pilgrimage development plans for Ramtek and   Approval has also been given to additional works of Koradi pilgrimage and tourism development project.

 The meeting was held on Friday at Sahyadri guest house in Mumbai and attended by top officials of finance, urban development, tourism departments, Nagpur collector   and NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar. Guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule and Ramtek MLA Mallikarjun Reddy were also present.
 
 Ramtek project worth Rs 150 crore was approved of which Rs 50 crore are to be released for the first phase. Works of rejuvenation of historical temples situated at Gadh mandir and Ambala lake will be undertaken. Also, beautification works of Gadh mandir, Ambala lake and temples and   have been planned along with sewage treatment plant, water supply works etc.
 
 Earlier, the project was proposed at Rs 200 crore but reduced to Rs 175 crore and now at Rs 150 crore.
 
 Fadnavis stressed on restoring the past glory of Ramtek town where the ancient temple atop the hill is visited by thousands of devotees annually. He said for any tourist spot, care should be taken to provide basic amenities like parking lots, drinking water, clean toilets and shelters.
 
 Total six government departments— state PWD, ASI, forest, MTDC, Ramtek municipal council and one more will execute the works.
 
 For Koradi project, additional works of Rs 99 crore proposed by the Nagpur Improvement Trust were given in-principle approval. These works are in addition to Rs 185.23 crore works approved on December 21, 2015.
 
 For Sonegaon lake, works of around Rs 5 crore have been approved and would be executed by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. The government had sanctioned Rs 3.24 crore under the state lakes conservation plan in 2010 but the civic body failed to execute works properly.
 
 Finance department’s additional chief secretary Dineshkumar Jain, urban development’s principal secretary  , public works department principal secretary Ashishkumar Singh, tourism department’s Nitin Gadre and Pravin Darade were also present.
 
 
