LUCKNOW: With the announcement of assembly elections, political parties have gone all out to woo Dalits in Uttar Pradesh. With a population of 20.5%, the community is a crucial part of the state’s voters. 

 The   and   are front-runners in this regard with Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoking BR Ambedkar in his speeches and Mayawati projecting herself the sole representative of Dalits. 
 
 However, the results of the past five assembly elections show that constituencies reserved for Dalits in UP have never been a stronghold of any party. 
 
 Before shifting to the BSP in the late 80s, Dalits voted mainly for the Congress since independence and the party dominated reserved seats. However, exit poll surveys show though in the past five assembly elections, Dalit voted en bloc (between 50% and 80%) for the BSP, the voting pattern of non-Dalit communities played a crucial role in deciding the results in favour of the BJP and SP on reserved seats. The reason: In reserved constituencies, according to pollsters, all parties have to field Dalit candidates, leading to the split of  . Hence, those who were able to attract votes from other castes and communities, win. 
 
 In 1993, BSP and SP contested elections together, but BJP grabbed 38 seats of 93—the number of reserved seats in that year—because of polarization due to the Ram Temple movement. The impact continued in 1996 when BJP won 36 seats followed by BSP (20) and SP (18). 
 
 However, the situation changed in 2002 when SP bagged 35 of the total 89 seats reserved then, the BSP won 24 and BJP 18. The BJP and BSP had to face anti-incumbency of their coalition governments which ruled from 1997-2002—the first two years being a BSP-BJP coalition and then BJP with support from BSP’s breakaway factions. 
 
 In 2007, the BSP for the first time grabbed the lion’s share of votes by sweeping 62 seats. 
 
 “In 2007, BSP got a section of Brahmin and Muslim votes which helped it sweep reserved constituencies. Till then, Brahmins generally used to vote for the BJP and Muslims opted for the SP. Call it a compulsion of politics or beauty of democracy, a party can make a mark by wooing a particular caste or community but to win, one has to reach out to all sections of the society,” said analyst Deepak Kabir.
 
 Political analysts point out that though BSP is a Dalit-based party, only the Jatav sub-caste (56.3% of the total Dalit population in UP) is a staunch supporter of the party because Mayawati is herself a Jatav. The BJP, SP and Congress are eyeing other sub-castes such as Pasis (15.9%), Dhobi (6%), Kori (6%) and Balmiki (3.3%).
 
 Mayawati is aiming to repeat the performance of 2007 through the Dalit-Muslim-Brahmin combination, while BJP is hoping for communal polarisation that helped it sweep UP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. BSP believes that state assembly elections are different from Lok Sabha elections because Dalits will vote to make Mayawati, a Dalit, the chief minister. Further, BSP leaders said, there will be a backlash of attacks on Dalits by self-styled ‘gau rakshaks’ (cow protectors) against BJP and its Sangh Parivar affiliates. The BJP, on the other hand, is holding   of Scheduled Castes at several places in the state. 
 
 The Congress and SP are also trying to make inroads among Dalits. While chief minister Akhilesh Yadav re-introduced the holiday on Ambedkar’s death anniversary on December 6 and has given land in Lucknow to Ambedkar Mahasabha for a memorial, the Congress has announced to issue a ‘Dalit manifesto’, promising free education and housing to Dalits, if voted to power.
 
