Mumbai: The BEST committee on Friday may deliberate on a proposal to hire 50 single-decker buses. TOI had reported on the undertaking’s “wet lease” plan in March 2016. 

 The proposal was circulated among the BEST committee members on Thursday evening and it could meet strong opposition from a section of the panel. 
 
 “We will strongly oppose the proposal if it comes up for discussions. This is the first step towards privatization,” said Congress member Ravi Raja. 
 
 “As per my calculations, BEST is spending Rs 94 per km per bus. But the actual expenditure on fuel and maintenance costs is Rs 51 per km, which is less than the lease rate. We will not accept the proposal,” he added. 
 
 Sources in the undertaking said that the BEST   is keen to go ahead with the wet lease plan. “The recent civic budget has also suggested that we should take buses on wet lease basis. It ensures that we have zero cost of operations and maintenance of buses. Our conductors will sell tickets, which will help us earn revenue. We can also earn from the advertisement rights on the single-decker buses taken on hire,” said an official. 
 
 A senior BEST official said that many   transport undertakings in the country, including the MSRTC, had successfully implemented the project of wet leasing. “It will be of immense benefit to the loss-making BEST as well. We will curtail our losses, which has gone up to Rs 1,062 crore in the last one year,” he said. Sources said that the proposal mentioned about the criteria for the private contractor to run each bus for 200 km/day and the agreement will be for five years. The buses will comply with Euro-3 norms and the lease rates will differ depending on the distance covered. 
 
 BEST general manager Jagdish Patil had recently clarified to the panel that leasing buses was not ‘privatization’. Patil stated that the undertaking had scrapped more than 1,000 buses in past few years. “This has affected the frequency of our buses. We had a frequency gap of 10 minutes for every bus on certain routes and this has now increased to 25 minutes. If we have the new buses on lease and deploy them on these busy routes, it will improve frequency,”he added.
 
