

 
 
 Akhilesh went back on his promise despite long-winded assurances by him and his father   Singhji over several meetings. Yet, I hold no grudges against him. In the end, we got three tickets with dignity from BSP (Mau, Mohammadabad, Ghosi) instead of two tickets as alms from SP. I am still on good terms with Mulayam, who earned the trust of Muslims and secular voters over years of work on the ground. However, Akhilesh, who is surrounded by sycophants, has turned too haughty and the poll results will be a lesson for him. 
 
 
 
 One must see actions and not get swayed by words. SP rule in UP saw 450 riots. On the other hand, rioters were all holed up during the Mayawati government. Varun Gandhi dared to spread hatred merely through speech, and he was booked and sent to jail by Behenji. Akhilesh, in fact, set a dangerous precedent when he awarded Rs 25 lakh and a job as compensation for the death of Akhlaq’s killer who died of natural causes in jail. On the other hand, he handed out Rs 10 lakh to martyred Armymen. 
 
 
 
 Mayawati categorically ruled out a tie-up with BJP in her recent Kanpur rally. I do agree she should have spelt it out much earlier to clear voters’ confusion. As far as sale of tickets is confirmed, let me put it on record that the Ansari family got three tickets but didn’t have to pay a rupee. BSP isn’t funded by big corporates unlike other parties. Party workers are expected to raise funds voluntarily, and there is nothing wrong with that. 
 
 
 
 Samajwadi Party’s alliance with Congress has only contributed to demoralising its workers since the latter has no votes that it can transfer. Moreover, Shivpal and Mulayam loyalists will also work against the SP, so it has too many internal issues to handle before it competes with outsiders. The BJP, on the other hand, has created a ‘Baikunth Dhaam’ for people like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. Mark my words, “master strategist” Amit Shah will also be sent to the same place after UP elections. 
 
 
 
 In six Poorvanchal districts, the BSP currently has 5 out of 40 assembly seats in its kitty. We’re confident of helping it take that number to 30-plus. 
 
 
 
 It’s a perception created by opponents and the media who can’t digest our popularity in the region. There has been no conviction in any case. The mafia is scared of us, so they think we are mafia too. We have a simple formula — when an individual facing oppression and exploitation comes to us for help, we don’t see his caste, religion or social standing. The media refers to Mukhtar Ansari as a criminal, but the people in his constituency call him a maseeha (saviour). Why does nobody talk of the fact that 18 of our ancestors went to jail fighting the British? We come from a family of freedom fighters, and our great-grandfather Mukhtar Ahmad Ansari was the president of the Indian National Congress in 1927.
 
 
 
 Nothing can be farther from the truth. One of our strongholds, Ghazipur has just about 7% Muslim population, so it’s not just Muslims making us win. All those who talk of secularism should come to Mau and Mohammadabad (Ghazipur) to see what real secularism is. 
 
