NEW DELHI: ‘Crazy’ Sumit’s kiss-and-run misadventures, now viral on social media, have reached an unintended audience: the  . The youth — who posted videos showing him kissing girls in public places — is likely to face criminal charges, including molestation.

 The undated video, uploaded last month, has been tracked to a YouTube handled named “thecrazysumit”. It has garnered several views and over one lakh subscribers.
 
 Police are also scanning another video in which he is seen apologising to viewers about shooting the earlier one. Teams from different units, including the cyber cell, have been asked to identify and nab the youth.
 
 “I see this kind of sexual perversion on social media in the name of getting likes and publicity,” said Delhi Police spokesperson and JCP of south-western range Dependra Pathak. A case under sections related to molestation and the IT Act would be registered if the video was found to be authentic, officers said.
 
 
 
 Taking suo motu cognizance, a case will be filed, officers said. Charges of obscenity may also be added. The YouTube page has received more than one lakh subscriptions. The youth also operated a   and a Twitter handle to share his videos.
 
 In the video that has gone viral, the youth, in a white shirt, is seen approaching a woman near Connaught Place. He asks her to stop and engaging her in a conversation, kisses her on the cheek and flees. The woman chases him for a few metres and walks way. The youth then approaches a couple in a park, appears to spray something on the boy’s face and plants a kiss on the girl’s cheeks. As the couple chase him,   runs and climbs over a fence and gestures at the man. The videos seem to have been shot by another person from a distance.
 
 Police said they were trying to identify the women in the video and the venues where the clips were shot. They were not ruling out the possibility of the women in the video being known to the youth. Police said the YouTube handle had explicit videos as well, and investigators were looking into whether these were “pranks” too.
 
 A few hours after the kissing video went viral, the youth uploaded the second video apologising for his behaviour, apparently fearing legal action. The objectionable video was removed after police reported it to YouTube.
 
 Police are tracking the IP address through which the video was uploaded. They will also seek Google’s help to identify the uploader. The other handles that shared the videos are also being scanned.
 
