Nagpur: To create awareness and prevent sexual exploitation of children, CBSE has requested all affiliated schools to show a short animated movie that has been uploaded on the CBSE YouTube channel. The movie, titled ‘Komal’, has been commissioned by the ministry of child and women development, and focuses on creating awareness about ‘bad touch’. CBSE mentioned in a letter to schools that it is important that teachers and parents ensure children are protected from all kinds of abuse. Biswajit Saha, additional director at CBSE, wrote, “Childhood is the primary stage of life. It knows no worry or anxiety, no good or evil. It is the period of both ignorance and innocence. Within our different areas of responsibility, guided by policy, legislation and experience, we should take steps to provide what is best for children.” He added that an important step in this regard can be equipping and empowering children at the right age. According to CBSE, the film ‘Komal’ has won the national film award in the category of ‘best educational film’ for creating awareness among schoolchildren about inappropriate touch. CBSE says schools may download the film or may stream it live, preferably at the time of school assembly. Saha wrote, “It is expected that schools will ensure that every child of the school views this instructive and informative film, so that they are in a better position to help and protect not just themselves but also their friends in any such situation, if it occurs.” CBSE has also asked schools to inform parents and students about the POCSO E-Box, which facilitates easy and direct reporting of sexual offences against children, and by children themselves, so that action can be taken under POCSO Act, 2012. The e-Box is incorporated prominently in the home page of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) website http://ncpcr.gov.in/ where a user has to simply push a button named POSCO e-Box. This will navigate to a page with a window containing an animation movie. The animation movie reassures the child that whatever has happened to him/her is not his/her fault and she/he need not feel guilty, and that NCPCR is a friend which will help them. After the user presses the arrow on this page, it navigates to another page where the child has to select at least one picture option (describing the category of harassment) and fill the form with details such as mobile number, email and description of the harassment, followed by the 'submit' button. The complaint is then registered and a unique auto-generated complaint number is flashed.