Ghaziabad: The entire staff of   in   was disbanded on Tuesday following a field visit to the area by the district’s police chief Hari Narayan Singh. All 132 cops posted in Modinagar police station were directed to report to Ghaziabad police lines with immediate effect.

 The disbanded team of cops includes the station house officer, four sub-inspectors, one senior sub-inspector and over 100 constables, both men and women. 
 
 Singh told TOI a new team will be posted in the police station within the next couple of days. The process has already begun so that work doesn’t stop at the police station in the interim. 
 
 The move comes days after a 14-year-old girl of Class 9, Poonam Yadav, was kidnapped and murdered in the township. Sources said the decision to move the entire force out of Modinagar police station was taken after directions issued by the ADG ( ) Prashant Kumar.
 
 Singh later told TOI he had gone on a field visit to Modinagar and interacted with people from a variety of backgrounds. “Memorandums were also received from several people during the visit. The interactions revealed members of the general public had lost faith in the force posted in Modinagar police station. There was an atmosphere of distrust in the township. A completely new team will soon be posted in the police station that will work towards regaining the faith and goodwill of the general public,” Singh said.
 
 The mutilated body of Poonam was found in the jungles of Kalchheena. Five people who had been named as accused in the FIR were arrested. On Monday, Poonam’s family members had met the SSP complaining about police laxity in the case. On Tuesday, a delegation of local Congress functionaries also met administration and police officials with the same complaint. Markets also remained shut in the area following the kidnapping and murder.
 
 Modinagar has witnessed a spate in major crimes over the recent past. A heist conducted in a branch of   in June by drilling a hole through the bank’s locker room has so far remained unsolved. 
 
