Actor   is on cloud nine these days as his look as Chandu Chekavar in his Mollywood debut   has been receiving wide appreciation even before its release.

  Taking a break from the shoot of Tigmanshu Dhulia's Raagdesh, Kunal says that he is grateful to   for immortalising the character of Chandu through his national-award winning film,  . He says, 'While I was in Kerala, I was overwhelmed to see that people could identify well with Chandu. Thanks to Mammootty sir for making my Mollywood entry easy.'
  He adds, 'I am curious and eager to see how people are going to respond to the film. The movie is unique and set in a different background. It is an adaptation of Macbeth told through the characters of Vadakkan Pattukal.'
 
 However, the actor says that he hasn't watched Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha. 'I am waiting for the release of Veeram post which I would like to watch Mammootty sir's enigmatic acting. I did not see it yet as I was sure that consciously or sub consciously, I will start to imitate him,' he says.
  Kunal's look in the film has also received rave reviews from his colleagues in Bollywood, with Karan Johar and Hrithik Roshan praising his makeover on their micro-blogging account.
 
 'It is always a special feeling when appreciation comes from people within the industry. Especially when it comes from people like Karan Johar, a fantastic filmmaker and Hrithik Roshan, who is known for his physicality. 
 
 I think my character is a bit of a surprise for people within and outside the industry. I do not think anybody sort of imagined me in a role like this. It was only Jayaraj sir who looked at me and said that he wanted to cast me in a role, which I haven't done before. So there is an element of surprise in everyone, who knows me.'
 Kunal's last three films has him in varied roles. He says that it wasn't easy for him to switch roles. 'I wanted to work with Tigmanshu since a long time as he is one of my favourites. It wasn't easy to be the army officer in the post independent era in Raagdesh as I had played a romantic guy in Dear Zindagi, and then went on to essay a warrior from the 16 century in Veeram,' he says.
 
  Kunal is currently scripting for two of his upcoming films. 'People always tend to typecast me, but for me, I always want to keep experimenting and exploring my acting skills. So, I am fortunate to create characters for myself,' he says. 
 
