Panaji/Canacona: Former sports minister and BJP Canacona MLA   on Monday decided to contest the February 4 polls as an independent candidate.

 The move came about on Monday after BJP officially denied tickets to Tawadkar and speaker Anant Shet for contesting the assembly elections. On Sunday, Tawadkar had resigned as MLA and held a meeting with   (MGP) president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar to discuss his plan of joining the MGP and contesting the assembly election on the MGP ticket.
 
 Defence minister  , meanwhile, held a close door meeting with BJP activists including Tawadkar’s supporters at Rajbag-Tarir, Canacona, on Monday. Tawadkar also held a meeting with his supporters to decide on whether to contest the assembly election on the MGP ticket or as an independent candidate. Most of his supporters advised Tawadkar to contest the election as an independent candidate. “I have decided to file my nomination paper as an independent candidate on Tuesday,” Tawadkar told TOI.
 
 Tawadkar claimed that except for the BJP Canacona block pesident and president of the Yuva Morcha, the other members are with him. He also said that five councillors of Canacona municipal council are supporting him. At a public meeting held at Canacona, Parrikar openly advised Tawadkar not to contest the assembly election as an independent candidate. Addressing the first public meeting organized by BJP’s Canacona candidate Vijay Pai Khot, Parrikar said “Tawadkar is a senior leader of the party and we cannot afford to lose a senior leader like him. I appeal to him publicly that he should not commit a mistake by contesting the elections”.
 
 Parrikar added that though the current political situation in Canacona seems to be heading towards a triangular fight, one more person is likely to contest from the constituency.
 
 Parrikar asked Tawadkar “to follow party discipline”. Recalling the 2012 assembly election, when Khot resigned as   to contest the election independently after he was denied the BJP ticket, Parrikar said he “told Khot not to contest the election and he stood by the party’s decision”. BJP’s Canacona block has already resigned following the news of Tawadkar being denied a ticket to contest elections.
 
 
