HYDERABAD: A wafer-thin young woman strides into New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport early morning on February 27. Gunjan Aggarwal could pass off as just another passenger but for her uniform; it’s a give-away.

 The 28-year-old is a pilot and was among the four pilots and 12 crew members who on March 3 were part of Air India’s all-women team that successfully flew around the world. While the airline has commissioned several flights staffed with women in the past, this one stood out as it flew in two legs across the globe: AI 173 (from Delhi to San Francisco over the Pacific) and AI 174 (San Francisco to Delhi over the Atlantic).
 
 If given the official stamp, the Delhi-San Francisco-Delhi flight, led by commanders Kshamata Bajpai and Sunita Narula with co-pilots Indira Singh and Gunjan, could well find a place in the Guinness Book of Records. 
 
 Not only was the flight managed by women, but it was conceived by one too – Meenakshi Mallik, general manager (revenue). In 2015, when her boss asked her what could be done with three Boeing 777s (LR) waiting to be sold off, she immediately hit on this ‘non-stop to SFO’ plan. Her target fliers’ group: high profile IT professionals who’d only be too happy to have a direct connection with the Silicon Valley.
 
 Today, the route has emerged as one of Air India’s top revenue grossers. “While the cost incurred for a round trip is Rs 1.6 crore, we easily make over Rs 2 crore,” said Mallik. The quiet professionalism on display on board the AI 173/174 perhaps explains just why it’s a success. 
 
 The crew’s efficiency is also a reflection of their many accomplishments ‘off air’. A candid chat during the journey revealed that commander Sunita is also a world yoga champion, while the exuberant Kshamata Bajpai has a flair for cooking. If crew member   is a handball champ, her colleague Surbhi Mallik is also a model.
 
 Each of them is the others’ strongest support too. For instance, crew member Tenzin Bhutia said her best friend on board, Nelly, always has her back. “Whether I am feeling high or low she is there for me. Even when it comes to small things like food, she keeps track of what I will and won’t have and ensures I get it,” she said.
 
 The camaraderie of the crew is hard to miss even when plain clothes replace their uniforms. The women are inseparable in their daily life too. On a road trip to Napa Valley, they could be seen cracking jokes, singing, partying and looking out for each other.
 
 Honouring the commitment that women bring to the table, AI organised a gathering at San Francisco to felicitate the pilots and the crew. For once, putting themselves in the spotlight, the ‘high-fliers’ walked the ramp and even shook a leg.
 
 (This correspondent was also part of the trip on invitation by  )
 
