Do you know how pale and wanton thrillful, comes death in a strange hour; unannounced unplanned for like a scary over-friendly guest you’ve brought to bed…” wrote Jim Morrison about death in a poem Feast of Friends.
Had you been at one of the popular cafes in the city recently, you would have heard similar quotes being discussed by a motley crew — doctors, teenagers, IT professionals, engineers, et al. 
 Welcome to the Death Café, a social franchise where people from different walks of life, mostly strangers, get together at various venues around the city and talk about death over coffee and cakes. From experiences of losing their dear and near ones and what can be perceived as a good death to how nanobots will soon wipe out fatal diseases making humans immortal, discussions revolve around all possible aspects of the subject. Recently, the city hosted its fifth session in the past seven months. “There is no place where one can openly talk about death. Morbid as it may sound, it’s a truth which all of us must face at some point of time in life but don’t get to share our feelings about it with anyone,” says  , a palliative physician and body therapist, who organised the first Death Café in Hyderabad in February this year. She adds that the sole objective of such sessions is to “to impart awareness about death to help people make the most of their finite lives”.
 
 
 
 For Sneha, it is her profession that triggered her interest in death and the various aspects associated with it. “Being a palliative physician, interactions with terminally ill patients is part of my daily job. Whenever the subject of death used to pop up in conversations, I could feel discomfort creeping up in them. People have reservations over talking about death. Whenever I used to ask what qualifies as a good death, they would either be clueless or feel shocked. That was when I wanted to know more about death and started researching about it,” she says.
 However, it was not before January 2017 that Sneha actually found what she was looking for. “It was during the Hyderabad Literary Festival that I met the head of media and communication department of Hyderabad University and got talking about death. He told me students at the varsity were working on a number of projects which indirectly or directly concerned my inquisitiveness on the subject. While going through a few, I stumbled upon Death Café. That’s when I knew I had got what I was looking for,” she recalls. 
 
 
 
 Death Café, as a concept, owes its genesis to a techie-turned spiritual enthusiast Jon Underwood’s needs to have discussion on death. Jon wanted it to be a counter phenomenon against the societal norm of “outsourcing discussions on the subject to doctors, nurses and priests”. Jon, inspired by the Café Mortal movement initiated by Swiss sociologist  , held the first death café at his house in the company of his psychotherapist mother in 2011. Eventually, word-of-mouth made it a success which led to many such sessions by other people of various magnitude making it a fad in the United Kingdom.
 “Initially, I just wanted to know how differently people perceive death. I had a feeling it wouldn’t work as death is a sensitive subject. But so far, so good,” says Sneha, who hosted another Death Café session in Chennai on September 3.
 For  , proprietor and creative head of Vision Rainbow, an alternative school in the city, the idea of having conversations about death excited her. So much so that after attending a Death Café session in the city, she hosted a similar event for her students in school. “I think children should be made aware of such sensitive topics. I observed people’s awkwardness in talking about it but, when we hosted a session in our school, I was surprised at how well the children responded to it. They spoke about their emotions and I could feel them opening up about things they probably wouldn’t have otherwise,” says Nausheen, adding Death Café sessions can work wonders for those who keep grief to themselves in the 
 absence of avenues and people to discuss it with.
 
 
 
 Dr Jagadeesh Babu, psychiatrist and psychologist at National Institute for Mentally Handicapped at Bowenpally, says, “Conversing about one’s inner-most and intimate emotions with strangers in an amicable environment can have a therapeutic effect on an individual. Such sessions may act as a window to vent certain feelings that you usually don’t share even with your closest friends. If not anything, I am sure it’s a good stress-buster. But as a point of caution, these can only help when done in a healthy way,” he says. 
 “Such sessions are far healthier than running an Internet search about death and looking for ways to overcome grief on the Internet,” says Nausheen, singing off.
 
