PANAJI: The   on Monday ordered the   to expedite the investigation into the vandalization of the   tribals’ huts at Nirankal in October last year, and called for a report to be filed ‘preferably within three months’ under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).

  said the investigation is in progress and police would be able to file a chargesheet against the offenders soon. The commission has asked the government to submit an ‘action taken report’ within 90 days in terms of Section 18(e) of the  , 1933. The state government has also been directed to provide toilet facilities for the tribes as quickly as possible. 
 
 After Satish Sonak, the advocate representing the tribe, pointed out that the community had not been compensated adequately, the commission asked the South Goa collector and district magistrate to move the state government for final and adequate compensation for the victims.
 
 The commission had taken cognizance of the TOI report, ‘Villagers destroy tribal houses at Nirankal’, after a copy of it was attached with a complaint filed in public interest by Harish Narayan Naik before the commission. TOI had reported that a group of villagers, under the leadership of a sarpanch, went on to demolish 20 hutments belonging to them near Bethora, Ponda. The report also stated that the group was driven by ignorance, prejudice and hatred against the primitive Vanarmare tribe.
 
 In his complaint, Naik prayed for immediate rehabilitation of the community and ex-gratia compensation to those whose huts were illegally demolished. He also requested that the commission direct the IGP to order an immediate inquiry by a police officer, not below the rank of a DySP, into the happenings and ask the police to investigate the collusive commissions and omissions of the local police in-charge of Nirankal village. The commission was also urged to book offences against culprits, arrest them and take protective measures to ensure safety of the victimized tribals and to take preventive measures against the probable recurrence of the incident.
 
 The villagers’ actions in persecuting the forest dwelling tribals who are poor, weak and illiterate, and the government’s inaction is detrimental to human rights, Naik had stated in his complaint. “There is every possibility that the victimized tribals, in the face of government’s indifference, will suffer further torture and indignity at the hands of unruly mobs who are not controlled by the police,” Naik had added, adding that this infringes the tribals’ right to live with dignity, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.
 
