AHMEDABAD: The mystery over how bird flu came to Ahmedabad deepened with Maharashtra’s animal husbandry department claiming that not a single bird at the famed Crawford Market in Mumbai had died of the disease since December 27. A slaughterhouse is situated in Crawford Market. 

 The  , Asha Foundation’s farm in Hathijan had purchased 210 birds, including 80 guineafowl, 80 chicken, 30 turkeys and some other bird species from Crawford Market on December 27. Seven of the birds in the lot had died by December 30. 
 
 Gujarat’s animal husbandry department had then sent samples of the birds’ droppings the following day to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, which, on January 3, confirmed the presence of H5N1 virus in the birds.
 
 However, the same day Maharashtra’s animal husbandry department sent officials to Crawford Market to take samples of serum and bird droppings of fighter cocks, guineafowl, turkeys and some ducks. 
 
 “None of these birds, which were sourced from 28 shops in Crawford Market, tested positive for bird flu. But we are maintaining daily vigilance,” said additional commissioner of Maharashtra’s animal husbandry department Dr GP Rane. In fact, Rane told TOI that all the shops had been restricted from buying any new set of birds till cleared from the department.
 
 Epidemic expert from Maharashtra animal husbandry department, Dr S B Tatwarti, told TOI that on January 3, bird serum and dropping samples were sent from Crawford Market to NIHSAD, Bhopal and   (NIV) Pune. “Both these institutes confirmed there is no bird flu infection in the birds. Nonetheless, our offcers are maintaining constant watch on the market every day since Jnauary 3,” Tatwarti told TOI.
 
 In 2006, Maharashtra had reported avian flu in India for the first time in the districts of Nandurbar and Jalgoan. There were 28 epicentres of the disease back in 2006 and 9.4 lakh birds were culled to control the infection. Navapur in Nandurbar district, which also shares border with Uchchal taluka of Surat, had reported of poultry infected with bird flu virus. 
 
 
