AURANGABAD: The   has set aside its   recovery drive and shifted focus on making the city   (ODF).

 A   will be visiting the city later this month to review the   (AMC) work on the same. Civic chief Om Prakash Bakoria has asked civic employees at all six zonal offices to give priority to building toilets.
 
 Zonal office employees are engaged in tax collection and implementing aggressive collection drives every quarter of the financial year. But, now the civic chief has directed them to complete the AMC’s target of building 7,000 toilets under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan before January 26.
 
 Recently, the AMC had announced that it would launch an aggressive drive to recover property tax dues. On January 9, authorities had planned to shame tax defaulters into paying their dues by beating drums outside their property if they the amount had crossed Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Many residential and commercial property owners have either been evading tax or paying undervalued amount for long, pushing the civic body into financial crises. Authorities were resorting to strict action to recover their tax. They were targeting major defaulters falling in the commercial category and also planned on implementing stringent steps to recover tax from residential property owners between January and March.
 
 Vasant Nikam, the officer in charge of tax recovery in the AMC, said that the ODF drive would be over soon, after which the civic body will concentrate on tax recovery. “Both tasks are crucial for the AMC, but right now our employees at zonal offices are busy in the ODF drive. So far as tax collection is concerned, we have time till March,” he said. 
 
 Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the state has set a target of constructing 11,997 toilets on the basis of the city’s population as per the 2011 census. So far, authorities could construct less than 3,000 toilets. 
 
 The civic body has till date received around 18,646 applications for the purpose. After conducting a survey, however, municipal officials found only 4,231 genuine cases and those were processed. Officials have released a first instalment of Rs 6,000 to 3,878 beneficiaries and construction of 2,391 has been completed so far. Apart from this, 860 toilets are on the verge of completion and the rest of the 627 are still being built. Authorities have uploaded photographs of 1989 toilets on the official website. 
 
 On the other hand, the municipal body could recover only Rs 62 crore till date against the annual Rs-230-crore target. According to rough estimates, the total outstanding dues on account of property tax are in the range of Rs 200 crore.
 
