For TV actors   and  , who got married last year, this will be their first   as a married couple and they are celebrating it at their Gurgaon residence. While Mayank is a veteran of the rowdy Holi tradition, having honed his skills growing up in UP, Hunar has never played Holi before. In a candid chat, they tell GT about their first Holi together in Gurgaon.

 Mayank, who got his training in ‘rowdy’ Holi while growing up in Kanpur, admits that he loves Holi because it is the one time in the year “jab koi bura nahin maanta.” He says, "You get this chance once in a year to let out your frustration and happiness. The frustration comes out on your enemies, and happiness is shared with those you love. And koi bhi bura nahin maanta kyunki Holi hai. I grew up in Kanpur, and you know how crazy Holi can get there. I have even played keechad-wali Holi, with grease, raw eggs and what not. But of course, ab toh sober ho gaye hain."
 
 Hunar, on the other hand, has never played Holi, except on screen. She says, "I have only played Holi on my TV shows. I was actually scared of colours, and as a kid, when everyone else would be celebrating, I would lock myself up in my room and not come out till the evening. But after having played it for the screen, I have become used to the colours. Par real life mein achhe se nahin kheli hai Holi."
 
 
 
  
  BURA NA MANO HOLI HAI: Mayank and Hunar busy playing Holi at their Gurgaon residence (BCCL)
 
 
 
 However, Hunar has been warned by her in-laws of Mayank’s wild Holi ways. She tells us, "I’m scared because ever since I have come to Gurgaon, Mayank’s brothers and family have been warning me ki isse bach ke rehna."
 
 Hunar says, "He has a reputation of playing rowdy Holi and I’m really scared about what is to follow.” Mayank is quick to add with a cheeky grin, “It’s our first Holi after the wedding, and like she said, she has never played before, so I have to show her how fun the festival is."
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 But now, Mayank says that he has toned down his Holi antics and prefers an eco-friendly celebration. "It is better to go the eco-friendly way in today’s time. There is so much of milaawat happening in colours that it’s not good for health. So, we are going the Vrindavan-way and will play with flowers and organic colours. Bachpan mein khurafaati thay, ab shaadishuda hain, thodi maturity toh aani hi chahiye na," he says. Hunar adds, "It’s good to have fun but why harm someone else? The colours don’t suit everyone. Some people get rashes on their skins and the colour doesn’t come off for days. So, one should definitely play Holi, but a bit responsibly."
 
 Although it’s their first Holi together, they have already played some, albeit with a birthday cake. Hunar recounts, "On his birthday, in October, as he cut the cake, I put some of it on his face. Immediately, he picked the entire cake and smeared it all over me. This was a day before Diwali. So, hamari pehli Holi toh tab hi ho gayi thi."
 
 Although he grew up in UP, Mayank’s family has been living in Gurgaon for over 15 years now. He says that since the city has such a diverse Holi scene, he has never missed the Holi of UP. He tells us, "Gurgaon’s Holi is very happening. Here, you get both kinds of Holi. Those who want the sober, simple kind have enough people to do that with, and the ones who want the shor-sharaaba and pakke rang have that alternative too. Gurgaon’s Holi gives the best of both worlds. It doesn’t let you miss the UP ki Holi, that I grew up playing."
 
 
 
 
