BENGALURU: Aditya   Online Fashion (ABOF), the fashion portal of the $50-billion   conglomerate, is shutting shop after just about two years of operations.

 The company informed its employees about its plans in a town hall on Thursday where 120 people were present. The top management, including chief executive  , was said to have been informed a month earlier. 
 
 While the parent company has asked senior executives to leave in six months, it is trying to accommodate at least some its junior employees in group companies like   and Pantaloons. Abof.com has around 200-250 employees and it plans to shut down the portal in the next four months. CEO Gupta did not respond to a request for a comment, but the parent company confirmed the move.
 
 Santrupt Mishra, global HR head at  , told TOI, “This space is not mature enough to give a return on investment. So putting more resources into it is unlikely to change the situation. We have told the employees we would wind down this business and, over the next five months, we will try to help them find alternative jobs within the group.“
 
 He said the company noted that players who had began operations much earlier were still struggling in this space and did not seem to be clear how to create returns for shareholders. He said ABOF is a strong brand with a loyal customer base, but indicated that even then, they did not see any possibility of reasonable returns in the future.
 
 Started in November 2015, ABOF was aiming to be, as group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla had said, a “specific fashion-oriented brand for youth“. The company retails about 125 brands including American fast fashion label Forever 21.
 
 Bijou Kurien, a retail industry veteran who launched Reliance Retail, said, “ABOF has been a pure play online brand. Ultimately, you need deep pockets in the e-commerce industry where rampant discounting is the norm and sustaining an online business is tough. They were building a brand online and merchandise online, independent of the group's offline business. This was not their omni-channel platform.”
 
 He said when a group has multiple businesses, the question is always about the best use of capital. When you have offline apparel businesses that are generating profits, you would not want to sink money into something that is not, said Kurien, also an adviser to Future Group's apparel and retail business.
 
 The country’s other large apparel groups including Arvind, Reliance and Tata run their own e-commerce ventures. Reliance Retail has the Ajio online venture for apparel, and Tata has Cliq, which sells apparel, footwear, mobiles, furniture, home furnishing items, among others. The Arvind Group runs a platform called NNNow.com for its own 30 in-house brands, including Flying Machine, GAP and US Polo that are either owned or sold in India by Arvind through its Arvind Lifestyle Brands.
 
 
 
