Nagpur: There are high chances that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will not be able to meet its revenue target in the current financial year. The civic body so far has met merely 28.21% of its target (Rs641 crore out of Rs2271.97 crore) in the first five months. What is more shocking that through property tax collection — one of its main sources of income to run the city — it has earned only Rs55 crore against a target of Rs392.19 crore.

 Of the revenue generated so far, the NMC has received Rs511 crore as government grants including Rs213 crore against LBT and implementation of GST.
 
 According to statistics provided by NMC’s accounts and finance office, this year so far, through LBT it generated Rs32 crore, while the health department helped in collecting Rs1.7 crore revenue. The civic body generated Rs2 crore from miscellaneous heads. 
 
 It also appears that low revenue collection has had a direct impact on the development and improvement work planned for the city. NMC’s chief accounts and finance officer Madan Gadge admitted that the civic body is yet to clear bills of various civic works being carried out by private contractors in the last financial year, though he refused to divulge the figures. He clarified that for this fiscal, the NMC has not yet started paying bills to the contractors. 
 
 The property tax collection — the chief source of NMC’s income — is worst. Given the present pace of data realignment, this year too the civic body may miss the property tax target of Rs392.19 crore set by standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav. Gadge said until August 31, the NMC has earned Rs55 crore from property tax. 
 
 Sources said NMC financial condition is very grim and presently it is focusing on development works only sanctioned under state government’s special grants and that are primarily in wards represented by BJP corporators. 
 
 Senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe too alleged that the BJP-ruled NMC is not allowing any works being proposed by corporators from opposition parties in their respective wards. Citing an example, he said 50 files of various works from his prabhag are pending since months. 
 
 Standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav admitted the fund crisis and assured to provide funds for all corporators. 
 
 
