HUBBALLI: At 11,   has emerged as arguably the   with her   “The Adventurous Eight”. The novel is attracting the attention of scholars

 Speaking to TOI, Anika, a class 7 student of   here, said that though her mother tongue is Kannada, it is not difficult for her to write in English. “As my father was in America for a few years, I was born and brought up there. I used to think in English and have been reading English fiction since first standard. This motivated me to author this novel. I can say that it’s a harmonious blend of qualities of all books that I have read in the past 6-7 years. I request all parents to make their children read novels, stories and other books,” she said.
 
 Harsha Annigeri, her father and an architecture lecturer at KLES’  , Hubballi, said that he used to buy Kannada and English books for his daughter whenever I visited Bengaluru. “We observed that she was getting up early in the morning during previous summer holidays and typing something in the laptop. When asked, she said she is writing a novel. We took her seriously when she completed about 60 pages and found it something worthy,” he said.
 
 When Anika’s parents approached Prof Mallikarjun Patil, a senior author and chairman of the English department at  , he initially hesitated to go through the book and insisted that the girl speak to her. “He interacted with her for an hour and found the book worthy of publication,” Harsha recalled.
 
 Prof Patil said that the novel speaks about future. “She has a good imagination power which is very essential to be creative. It teaches readers, particularly children, to dream good things. As Anika has good mastery over English, the novel has emerged as good children’s classic,” he said.
 
 Mentioning the story, former MLA Chandrakant Bellad said that six cousins and their two pet dogs are on a summer vacation on Moonbay Island and discover a dangerous plot of miscreants to steal important documents related to rare medicinal plants. “It contains 14 chapters and enhances curiosity at every phase. These 6+2 lives find suspicious characters in the island and fight the culprits till they are punished,” he said.
 
 Ganga Kadam, Anika’s Kannada teacher, said that she checked on the internet and found that Anika is youngest novelist in India. “Anika is an ideal student who is a frontrunner in both curricular and co-curricular activities,” she said.
 
 “A novel in English by a class 7 girl is a feather in the cap for the education department. We will instruct all schools to buy this novel. We will also request our DDPI to supply this novel to all schools of the district so that students get inspired,” Umesh Y Bammakkanavar, block education officer, Hubballi.
 
 “Seeing the quality of the novel, our management approved to publish it under the Sapna Ink scheme, which is best self-publishing package with free author copies, in just four hours,” Raghu MV, branch head, Sapna Book House, Hubballi.
 
 
