DHARWAD:   stressed the need to conserve water as it would be a bone of contention between the states in the days to come due to increase in water mining. They called for an effective law to curb the abuse of water.

 Participating in a session on “National Water Policy” at the   on Saturday, water expert Rajendra Poddar, V P Huggi and legal experts   discussed various aspects related to water disputes and the usage of water. 
 
 The panelists opined that soon, groundwater table will be depleted and wars will be fought between states if the rampant water mining is not contained.
 
 Initiating the discussion, Prof Poddar blamed the acute shortage of water on commercialization and corporatization. The demand for water has shot up by three folds in the past two decades, while the supply remains the same, he said. 
 
 As per the  , each person should get 1,700 cubic mm water per capita/per annum. In pre-independent India, each person was getting 5,000 cubic mm per annum and post-Independence, it came down to 3,000 cubic mm. In the past 16 years, this has further dipped to 2,000 cubic mm per annum and in the next 10 years, it would come down to 1,500 cubic mm per annum for each person.
 
 Adding to the woes, the packaged water industry in India has turned into a Rs 60,000-crore business Poddar said. “People, who are financially capable, are digging borewells in their land and selling water at exorbitant prices. Some hotels in Bengaluru and Mumbai are selling packaged water at Rs 200 per bottle. The packaged water industries are minting money in crores by destroying the water table,” he said. 
 
 The government should separate land rights from water rights. There is an urgent need to bring into force the Groundwater Regulation Act, Poddar said. He further stated that the need of the hour is to bring into force the national water act which can direct states on their share of water.
 
 On Mahadayi river, Huggi said that the three riparian states – Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka – have equal rights over this water. “The Mandovi river has five sub-basins, among which Mahadayi is one. “The Mahadayi has 108 tmcft water and Goa just needs 20 tmcft for agriculture and daily use. But as Mahadayi flows in 80% forest land and 20% in human habitation, the Goa government is opposing linking this to Malaprabha,” he said.
 
 The Mahadayi flows 40km within Karnataka and the state has right over 40 tmcft of water. “However, our government is claiming just 20 tmcft of water,” he said.
 
 On linking Ganga with Cauvery, Huggi clarified that it cannot be implemented. “Only the water could be transported from the surplus basin to the deficit basin. Through west flowing rivers, Karnataka is getting 2,000 tmcft water but we are able to utilize only 200 tmcft water. The excess water should be transported to other basins which have deficit water,” he said.
 
 Legal expert C S Patil said that water disputes cannot be solved only through law as politics and livelihood are also involved in such issues. “As per the law, water is public trust doctrine and the tribunals have been adopting equity distribution policy and not equality distribution policy,” said Patil.
 
 Moderator Lohit Naikar said that 89% of people in India do not own land and hence giving powers to the land owners to use the water available under the land would prove disastrous and lead to commercialization of water.
 
