:   

 :  
 
 : 130 minutes 
 
 :  , Satyajit Sharma, Gulki Joshi, Prasad Jawade and others
 
 : Hindi
 
 : 3
 
 There’s always room for a story that celebrates the resolute spirit of a woman. And that’s why we must welcome Ganesh Yadav’s new historic drama, 'Agnipankh', which stars Mita Vashisht, who plays a feisty matriarch. 
 Originally written in Marathi by playwright   more than three decades ago, the story is set in newly-independent India and revolves around Durgeshwari aka Baisaab, a wealthy Brahmin woman. Because of her husband’s inability to look after the family’s business and personal affairs, she runs the zamindari household herself and rules over everyone with an iron fist. Naturally, as is the case in a patriarchal society, her decisions don’t go down well with people around her and there are clashes. With the winds of change transforming India, the strong gusts also rattle this wealthy household and threaten the power held by Baisaab. 
 What’s interesting about the play is that though the female character has her flaws and in many parts, is not likeable, she is unapologetic about her decisions and has her own reasons to stand by them. At first, Vashisht seems to come across a tad bit uncomfortable in her character, but as the play progresses, she blends in well, and perhaps it’s the sarcastic humour, but you end up understanding her character. Of the rest of the cast, Satyajit Sharma, as the debaucherous husband, stands out. 
 The thing about historical dramas is that they demand certain production values, which when compromised, take away some of the shine. Luckily for 'Agnipankh', whether it’s set designer Ajit Dandekar’s elaborate mansion backdrop or the traditional costumes, they’re reminiscent of an era gone by and make for a pretty picture on stage. 
 Of course, the story is dated as it’s set in the late 40s. But many themes running across the play are relevant even today — notably, the disdain higher caste people have for others. You only wish that the play was crisper and shorter in length.
 
