CHANDIGARH: This Sunday, go bird watching at the   forest area with   (CTL). Besides CTL members, experts from the Chandigarh forest and wildlife department will guide the participants. 
 
 As a part of a series of events, CTL, which is a TOI initiative, has organized a bird-watching event at the Sukhna forest area. The group has been organizing tree walks in forests and gardens, lectures and seminars on the trees in Chandigarh. In the past as well, the group held events at Sukhna Lake,  , Kansal forest area, Sukhna forest and Sukhna lake, among others. 
 
 "The city is blessed to have such a large variety of trees whose plantation was part of the original master plan of Chandigarh. Different varieties of trees were planted on roadsides in a planned manner to ensure ample sunlight in the winter and dense shade in the summer. Also, the city's green cover is one of the highest in the country. No other city can boast of such a unique green splendour. It is our responsibility to save and preserve it from decay and harm," said  , founding member of the group and former principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture. 
 
 On December 18, CTL had released a greeting card featuring palash, flower of the city. The launch was followed by a tree walk at Sukhna in which UT home secretary Anurag Aggarwal (IAS) and chief conservator of forests and UT director environment   had also participated. The card as a picture of palash, also known as Dhak, Tesu and Flame of Forest, and tree's salient features. 
 
 Bird watching with CTL 
 
 When || 3:15pm
 
 Meeting Point | Regulatory end of Sukhna 
 
 About CTL: 
 
 The Times of India joined hands with the residents of Chandigarh to form the group, Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) earlier this year. The group aims at protecting the city's green treasure. The group has been conducting tree walks at regular interval in different parts of Leisure Valley and the last one was held in November at Fragrance Garden. Many such like activities are planned in the future.
 
