“Comparison is the thief of joy.”
–  
 
 But compare we do. It’s in our genes. A toddler will mimic his/her parents, elder siblings even before s/he gains all senses; nothing wrong with that. In fact, it’s cute. The problem begins when, as adults, we start living our lives only in   to the ones around us. Mrs Kapoor’s daughter stood first in her class; Mr Roy’s son has got through engineering; that Nair kid learns judo, classical dance and is a maths prodigy. A little nudging that we have all experienced as kids and have probably gotten over, in time. No such luck in the   we live in now. 
 
 Author Manjiri Prabhu says the world of social media is a deep-green minefield, “filled with comparison and envy, eventually leading to depression”. All you have to do to feel underwhelmed is open your   or Instagram account: The childhood friend is a CEO at 30. The friend with over one lakh Instagram followers. The colleague who takes fancy vacations. That girl next door showing off her svelte figure... the list goes on. 
 
 
 Today, we aren’t just creatures of comparison. We are comparison junkies. Clinical psychologist and psychology professor at California State University, Ramani Durvasula, who conducted a research on social comparison, says, “Social media is social comparison on steroids!” 
 
 “Do you catch yourself looking at the lives of friends and colleagues and wondering why you don’t have what they do? Do you ask why you aren’t as successful or as happy? Then you are a comparison junkie,” says life coach Peroshini Naidoo. Our friends, colleagues act as our mirrors – it’s much easier to look at another and feel inadequate rather than honestly assess ourselves. She adds, “In comparison, even achievements seem like failings.”
 
 
 Prabhu thinks this is a result of rising insecurities. “Comparison is like an unspoken process of self-assessment. We constantly need an assurance that we are doing okay. It’s like a pat on the shoulder from society,” she says. But eventually, people lose in the process because human beings tend to compare their worst with the best of someone else. 
 Software professional   believes comparison on social media happens at a far more insidious level than what we were used to earlier. “People don’t talk about their trials and tribulations. You don’t get to see a picture of someone who’s depressed or has a meltdown, or simply, people at their worst. We see the best version of others on our screen and feel bad about our lives. And it can be detrimental to our mental health.”
 
 Researchers at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine recently conducted a study about the effects of social media habits on the moods of users. The study determined that the more young adults use social media, the more likely they are to be depressed. According to lead author Lui yi Lin, the exposure to “highly idealised representations of peers on social media elicits feelings of envy and the distorted belief that others lead happier, more successful lives”. Another recent University of Copenhagen study warns of the negative impact of “lurking on social media without connecting with anyone”. 
 
 
 Psychologist   says, “Till we go on creating perfect pictures in our head about the lives of others, we will go on torturing ourselves into believing everyone is doing better than us. Social media is mostly one-sided conversation, with no scope of empathy. We hardly understand and mostly, judge.” That leaves us with distorted perspectives on other people’s lives, and our own. Sharma adds, “Unless we talk to each other, we don’t understand that every person goes through it.”
 
 Author Varsha Dixit believes that the best way to opt out of the rat race is to find contentment within yourself. She says, “Strive to be the best person you are, find peace from what you hold within rather than look for it outside.”
 The next time the devil in the head asks, “Mirror, mirror on the wall...”, remember what fashion icon Karl Lagerfeld said: “Personality begins where comparison ends.”
 
 
 - According to a  , millennials are suffering from “ruthless comparison”. 
 
 - According to Stanford psychology professor Thomas G. Plante, there are upward comparisons (i.e., observing people who seem to have it better than us) and downward comparisons (i.e., observing people who seem to have it worse than we do). We often feel better about ourselves when making downward comparisons and feel bad about ourselves when making upward comparisons. 
 
 - In their study, The Dark Side of Social Comparisons, Judith B White and Ellen J Langer discovered that frequent social comparisons lead to destructive emotions and behaviours. People experience envy, guilt, regret, defensiveness, and to lie, blame others, and have unmet cravings.
 
 
 
