For the last two years, a   from   has been asking for his   (RTO) papers for a car that he had purchased in 2007. For a decade, everything seemed  , until it met a mishap leading to the demand of papers that were not delivered by the showroom even after charging them on the bill.

 Mahesh Tanaji Garud purchased his first car, aScorpio, from Sliver Jubilee Motors Ltd located at KSB Chowk, Chinchwad, in March 2007. Garud worked with Infosys when he purchased the car. However, he later joined the family business, which was currently in news for being the first vegetable outlet in the city to go cashless after demonetisation.
 
 Garud said, “Following the mishap in May 2014, I claimed Rs 11,000 insurance from the New India Assurance Company, for which they demanded the certificate of registration (RC). When I went to the showroom to procure it, they asked me for RTO papers. I was shocked on coming to know that my car number has not been registered by RTO with them not uploading the receipt of choice number to their site.”
 
 At the time of purchase, Garud was given the RTO receipt and he had availed a loan of Rs 3.30 lakh while the rest of the money came from his pocket. The loan amount was cleared by 2012. Also, he paid the insurance to ICICI Bank, Bajaj Allianz and New India Assurance Company respectively. He was left astonished on realising that none of their authorities has verified the documents before sanctioning loan.
 
 “I did not get a single call for verification and the loan was approved within a few hours. How can they make such a blunder? The showroom collected Rs 69,362 for the RTO papers and failed to register my vehicle,” he said.
 
 It has been two years now that Garud has been pursuing this matter with the showroom, however, has been discouraged due to non-cooperation from the staff. “Even though they have accepted their mistake, they haven’t done anything concrete to resolve it. The customer care departments do not care about the customers at all. The showroom had given me the registration number and affixed it on the vehicle without actual RTO sanction. It is very strange,” he said.
 
 The chain of events has compelled the family to keep the car indoors, with the fear that it might get caught due to lack of registration. They filed a Right to Information (RTI) notice with the showroom, but in vain. Furthermore, they are not even able to sell the car.
 
 In September 2016, when Garud lodged an FIR against the showroom, they began cooperating leading to halting of the inquiry. He also issued a legal notice asking them to rectify the mistake immediately and provide all the RTO registered papers of his vehicle in 15 days.
 
 The notice was promptly replied by Silver Jubilee Motors, that claimed of having collected Rs 59,554 as RTO charges from Garud. Kiranpalsingh Ahluwalia, executive director of Silver Jubilee Motors, told Pune Mirror, “We had submitted Garud’s cheque to the Pimpri-Chinchwad RTO immediately. How can we pay the amount again? We had also filed an RTI at the RTO to seek the correct information.”
 
 Pimpri-Chinchwad’s deputy regional transport officer, Ajit Shinde, said that he will personally look into the matter as he was previously not aware of the case. “If the cheque was submitted to the RTO, then it will definitely reveal in bank entry,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 Garud filed an RTI twice in 2015. The Pimpri- Chinchwad RTO stated that the vehicle delivered to Garud has not been registered in RTO, because of “failure of non-payment of registration charges to the concerned authority”. It has also further stated that the RTO had not issued registration no. MH 14 AX 0222 to the said vehicle.
 
 On April 4, 2016, the RTO authority claimed that there was no any mention of the engine number ‘31338’ and chassis ‘69849’ on their computer. There was no hand-written record either.
 
 On August 8, 2016, Garud made another RTI in RTO to seek information if the authority had received any receipt from showroom. The RTO replied that the tax amount was deposited on receipt no. 7674/18/51, but the vehicle’s name was not shown.
 
 
