THANE: The   and   have come up with conventional means to   the alleged failure of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to keep the roads free of potholes and craters. 

 Most activists said the civic officialdom appears to have turned a blind eye to complaints or protests, compelling them to ideate fresh concepts, which would drive home the point without any angry outburst of emotions or being argumentative.
 
 Citizen activist   announced the Thane Pothole Festival inviting people from cities across continents to come to the city which is being developed to be a smart city. Shah, who has sent a sarcastic invite through emails and WhatsApp to his friends said that he wants them to come to the city and witness the situation first hand. 
 
 “Thane had been in the news for many good things and the TMC is working to turn the city into a smart city. However, it has failed to deliver the basic necessities by ignoring the craters on roads. I want the world to come here and take them on a guided tour and witness the potholes first hand,” he said.
 
 He added, “The TMC is planning mega projects and digital connectivity. Can we expect them to deliver good roads and pathways.” 
 
 There are 1,062 potholes on various roads in the city according to TMC’s data. 
 
 The roads in Thane are maintained by the TMC, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and Public Works Department (PWD). 
 
 A political party, on the other hand, has come up with a Selfie With Pothole concept. 
 
 The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena ( ) have called on locals to click photos with potholes in their areas and email it to them, following which the party will hold an exhibition of potholes at the railway station over the weekend. 
 
 “Residents are facing immense problems in travelling thanks to the potholes. We are now asking residents to click selfies and share it with us. We are inviting the guardian minister for inauguration,” said Avinash Jadhav of MNS, Thane.
 
 Civic officials said they will start working on repairing the potholes. 
 
 “We are deploying the jet patchier machine that can repair roads even in rains. Potholes in the ten wards have been identified and we will repair them over the next few days,” assured city engineer Ratan Awsarmol.
 
 
