BHUBANESWAR: Has chief minister   ditched his close aide Saroj Sahoo in the wake of recent CBI raid on the latter's house in connection with   scam? The question assumes significance as Sahoo has stopped coming to Naveen Niwas, residence of the CM, since the January 12 raid.

 Sahoo's prolonged absence sparked speculation that Naveen showed him the door. "We do not know why he is absent. He was not an employee," said an employee of Naveen Niwas. Though Sahoo doesn't hold any post in the party nor is he a government employee, he is still perceived as Naveen's man Friday. 
 
 Police sources said Sahoo was denied entry into Naveen Niwas after the CBI raided his house for the second time. The central probe agency last raided his house and questioned him on November 22, 2014, for his alleged complicity in the chit fund scam. CBI suspects Sahoo availed undue financial benefits by mediating for   with different government agencies, which awarded contracts to the firm to carry out different projects in public-private-partnership mode. 
 
 "We know he was regularly coming to CM's house after the 2014 raid on his house. But he has been barred to enter Naveen Niwas after the second raid," a senior police officer, requesting anonymity, told TOI. Despite repeated attempts, Sahoo was unavailable for comment. Talks are doing the rounds that Naveen, who had distanced many of his close confidants after feeling threat to his position, resorted to the same tactic in case of Sahoo, who was a newspaper hawker before his rise. 
 
 Duped investors and opposition Congress have been alleging that the CBI probe became sluggish ever since Sahoo was interrogated in 2014. Though Sahoo in November 2014 denied his involvement in the chit fund scam, investors are not ready to buy his story. "Why did not the CBI summon and interrogate any other staffer of Naveen Niwas? The CBI must have found evidence against him" said  , a duped Seashore investor. 
 
 The Congress earlier alleged the CBI deliberately gave ample time to Sahoo to destroy evidence. 
 
