JALANDHAR: It is for the first time that SAD has lost ground to a national party, which did not explicitly identify with Sikhs or Panthic groups, though it accommodated Sikh faces without giving command to them.

 Even as different Akali groups have been replacing each other in Punjab, it is for the first time that Akalis lost their Panthic vote bank to AAP, which did enough harm to SAD, making it trail at the third position. As other Sikh groups failed to provide a viable alternative all these years, despite mounting opposition to SAD from within the community,   grabbed the opportunity, but results show it succeeded only partially.
 
 Even in the 2014 general election AAP managed to make a mark by projecting prominent Sikh faces. Instead of recovering its Panthic vote bank, SAD kept drifting away and things reached a nadir when the party banked upon Dera Sacha Sauda support. Sikhs have been at loggerheads with the Sirsa sect since 2007 after dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh allegedly imitated Guru Gobind Singh. Dera’s support further alienated the Sikh votes and SAD trailed at number three — its worst performance in the last half century.
 
 An analysis of vote share also reveals that SAD failed to recover its lost ground from AAP. Congress vote share from the 2014 Lok Sabha elections at 33% rose to 38.4% this time. SAD-BJP vote share came down from 34.9% to 30.6% even as AAP also lost around 0.7% of its vote share. Though Congress could not recover its ground completely and remained below its votes share in the 2012 assembly elections at 40.11%, AAP keeping SAD down helped the party to register a thumping majority.
 
 For over 30 years, SAD harped on Operation Bluestar and massacre of Sikhs in Delhi. Sikhs had no other option but to support Akalis largely as they managed to portray Congress as anti-Sikh. However, AAP apparently became an alternative for those Sikhs who could not vote for Congress while SAD kept on reducing its Panthic credentials.
 
 Bargari sacrilege issue and then subsequent firing on protesters, which killed two Sikhs, further cornered SAD. Things couldn’t change for the party when it got support from the Sirsa dera, which could be of little help with its core base lost. 
 
 
