NEW DELHI: Pakistan has indicated to India that it will be completing its inquiry on Indian soldier  , who inadvertently strayed into Pakistan on September 30, a day after India's surgical strikes on the neighbour's soil.

 If Chavan returns, it would be the second positive step from Pakistan after the decision to release 220 Indian fishermen on Christmas day , which is Pakistan PM   's birthday . Indian PM   wished him through a tweet which was acknowledged by Sharif 's daughter Maryam.
 
 Minister of state for defence   said the soldier is alive and is expected to be released soon.Speaking at the launch of a submarine, Bhamre said, “They (Pakistan) have admitted that Chandu Chavan is alive, and that they will soon release him after inquiry , which is nearing completion.“
 
 “We are trying at the level of DGMO (Director General of Military Operations), to secure his release. So far, the DGMO has spoken to their Pakistan counterpart at least 15 to 20 times,“ the minister said. “The last time such talks took place was two days ago. They (Pakistan) said that the inquiry is getting over and Chandu Chavan will soon be released,“ he said.
 
 Indian NSA Ajit Doval has spoken to his counterpart in Pakistan Nasser Janjua as well about the return of the soldier. Chavan disappeared the day after India hit terror launch pads across the line of control, leading to speculation that he may have been left behind. But this was denied, since Chavan strayed from a different sector. He has been in Pakistani custody for more than three months now.
 
 Chavan hails from Bhamre's   constituency in Maharashtra. “I have been in regular touch with his family ,“ the minister said.
 
 Bhamre on Wednesday said though there is an official agreement between India and Pakistan over handing over of such jawans, in the current scenario it will take more time to get him back.“We have referred to the agreement and communicated with Pakistan government. It is true that relations between the two governments are a bit tense after the incident (cross-LoC surgical strikes). But, we will continue our efforts and bring him back,“ he said.
 
 India has repeatedly written to Pakistan seeking Chauhan's return.
 
