NAGPUR: Many areas near   are dotted with piles of garbage, which cause inconvenience to residents as well as schools in the area, and are also a health hazard.

 “Garbage collectors bring the waste from surrounding areas and dump it in our area. The   trucks do not appear for days, many times, due to which the garbage is left lying here, raising a stink in the entire area,” said  , ex-corporator of Ajni Railway Colony. “Garbage is also burned many times in our area, causing air pollution. NMC must take action against this,” Ahmed added.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner of Dhantoli zone   said, “Railway land is central government property, so it is the duty of railway officials to decide a spot for dumping their garbage, from where we can collect it, and the whole problem can be resolved.”
 
 Local residents are irritated by the regular dumping of garbage in their area at various places. “We have complained many times to authorities in the area, but no action was taken. At night, sometimes the garbage is burned, causing so much smoke in the area that it becomes hard to drive, as our eyes start itching and burning,” said  , a social activist.
 
 “Most of our area is full of trees, and in the dry summer season, there is a chance of fire spreading throughout the area,” added Parkhande.
 
 The garbage collected from Kaushalya Nagar, Wanjari Nagar, Kukde Layout, Joshi Wadi, Babulkheda and other nearby areas is also dumped in open spaces near Ajni Railway Colony. “The waste from many areas is thrown in our area, and not collected for many days. This waste is also causing problems like increase of mosquitos too,” said Ahmed.
 
 Recently, a spot where people regularly dumped and burned garbage was cleaned, and a tent is installed there, with the warning that ‘Throwing garbage is prohibited’. However, residents and waste collectors have simply taken to dumping garbage in other locations in the same area.”
 
 Govind Indalbais, a resident of the area, said, “Yes, they have installed a tent there, but it will be removed within 10-15 days. Soon, people will again start dumping garbage there.” 
 
 “The garbage has caused respiratory problems for many people in our society. The garbage pickers even dump dead animals here, which causes a stink in the whole area. A complete solution must be found for the problem,” added Indalbais.
 
