Yes, we are a nation obsessed with   and the number of products endorsed by actors and actresses are proof that this obsession is here to stay. Many celebrities have voiced their opinions against the use of fairness   — the most recent one being Abhay Deol — but city-based dermatologists have a new problem to deal with. Steroid-Based Creams (SBCs) have made their way into the market and the rampant use of such creams is on the rise, and so are the skin diseases that come with them. A study done by the Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venereologists and Leprologists reveals that over 10% of fairness cream users use SBCs. 
  spoke to a few dermatologists to understand how exactly SBCs work and what are the repercussions of using them over a prolonged period. 

 
 
 
 Dr Venkataram Mysore, a city-based   and president, 12th Edition of World Congress of Cosmetic Dermatologists (WCOCD), says that in the past few years there has been a rise in the cases of skin diseases caused by SBCs. “Such creams can be prescribed only by dermatologists for a particular period of time for the treatment of skin diseases. When the patient realizes that during this time, the skin colour lightens, they tend to prolong the use of such creams, which in turn can affect the skin adversely,” he says. Another reason to worry, Dr Venkataram says is that these creams are often mixed with other high-end beauty products, repackaged and sold at a cheaper rate, which eventually find their way into beauty parlours and clinics. “Easy access to such creams is a major issue. SBCs are sold over the counter at medical stores and are used in beauty treatments such as chemical peels. When prescribed by an unqualified person, who doesn’t know exactly how these creams work, it can lead to several skin diseases,” says Dr BS Chandrashekar, Secretary General, WCOCD.
 
 
 
 
 Doctors believe that our obsession with fair complexion is to be blamed partially. “The idea of fair skin is very deep rooted in our society. Though of late, there has been awareness about the issue, endorsement of fairness products must stop. Celebrities must stop endorsing such brands and must speak up about the issue,” adds Dr Venkataram. Dr Chandrashekhar agrees and says that the quest for fairness and beauty are universal. “People come in for grooming due to several reasons. Peer pressure, being bullied for their skin tone, before they get married and such. It is usually these people who fall prey for such products,” 
 he adds.
 
 
 
 
 On asking what can be done to counter this problem, dermatologists say that the sale of SBCs in medical stores without a prescription must be stopped. Secondly, there needs to be a crackdown on companies repackaging these creams and selling them in the market. “The most important thing is that for any skin problem, people must visit a dermatologist instead of self-treatment. People must strive for healthy skin rather than fair skin,” adds Dr Venkataram. People also need to check for ingredients on the packaging box of the creams that they use and must consult with their doctors before using any creams. Government, on the other hand, also has a role to play, says Dr Chandrashekhar. “The government needs to address such issues and must have stringent laws in place,” he adds.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
