NASHIK: The   has not yet managed a clean script on   even as the Center will start its   2017 here from January 23.

 The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has a tough challenge ahead to ensure proper collection and segregation of waste in the run-up to the cleanliness survey of 500 towns and cities across the country by the Union government. 
 
 No matter what the civic officials have to say or claim, residents are far from being happy with the services by the civic body in terms of waste management. 
 
 One of the components of the survey includes 100% segregation of waste and use of information and communication technology to monitor segregation of waste. But not all garbage collection vans in the city have separate bins for keeping segregated waste. The debris collection has also not been implemented fully.
 
 This year, the NMC will have to compete with 500 cities across the country for Swachh Sarvekshan. Last year, 73 cities had taken part in the survey and the NMC finisged 31st (See graphics).
 
 Last week, the NMC had claimed that most of the garbage was getting segregated at the source and the hotel and garden waste and debris were being collected by independent vans. 
 
 “But there’s a lot of debris off   on Gangapur road. People dump construction debris wherever they feel like. I have also seen broken commodes on the road from Chopda lawns to Ramwadi,” said Aniket Kalokhe, a grocer.
 
 Homemaker Brinda Sharma is miffed with the “erratic services” by the garbage pickup vans. “These vehicles do not have any fixed time to visit the localities to pick up the garbage,” she said. 
 
 According to her, she has not noticed any garbage segregation at the source. “There is no compartment for dry and wet waste in the vans. But people should also be responsible. Another problem is that the new vans collect garbage in the afternoon. Earlier, when the old vans were plying, they came in the morning to collect garbage. Also, most of the times the vans come on alternate days,” said Brinda.
 
 Out of the 206 new vans, 148 are running on city streets. Out of 33 vans in Panchavati, 20 are rolling and out of 31 in CIDCO 19 are running at present.
 
 “Some garbage vans in the Panchavati and Cidco areas do not yet have partitions where the wet and dry garbage could be kept. We have asked them to do it in two days. The Panchavati garbage collection contractor told us that all their vans would be ready by January 25,” said health officer Vijay Dekate. 
 
