NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday said there was nothing wrong with the Centre’s process to auction   in 2015, which had fetched a revenue of Rs 1.09 lakh crore.

 A bench of Justice Dipak Misra and Justice P C Pant said there was no arbitrariness in the auction process as submitted by some telecom operators who had challenged the Centre’s ‘Notice Inviting Application-2015 (NIA)’ for allocation of spectrum in various areas. “In the instant case, we are unable to perceive any arbitrariness or favouritism or exercise of power for any collateral purpose in the  . In the absence of the same, to exercise the power of judicial review is not warranted. In the case at hand, we think it is a prudent decision once there is increase of revenue and expansion of the range of service,” the bench said.
 
 The bench rejected the plea of telecom operators who had alleged that the Centre was not putting all available spectrum for auction and the provision in NIA was discriminatory. It said the government’s decision was in favour of public interest and for generating maximum revenue by selling spectrum.
 
 “The explanation given by the Centre for not putting the entire spectrum to auction is a reasonable one and it is put forth that an endeavour would be made to put it to auction when it becomes available in sufficient quantum. The court cannot interfere with the tender conditions only on the ground that certain amount of spectrum has not been put to auction,” it said.
 
 “As the stipulation in the tender was reasonable and not based on any extraneous considerations, the Court cannot interfere in the NIA in exercise of the power of judicial review,” it added. “The decision taken by Centre is based upon certain norms and parameters. Though criticism has been advanced that it is perverse and irrational, yet we are disposed to think that it is a policy decision which subserves the consumers’ interest. It is extremely difficult to say that the decision to conduct the auction in such a manner can be considered to be mala fide or based on extraneous considerations,” it said.
 
