Nagpur: A technical glitch led an Master of business administration (MBA) aspirant losing around eight minutes towards the end of her online common entrance test (CET) held on March 4 in the city. While she lost substantial amount of time, many other students at the same exam centre faced problems in answering the exam for a minute or two. Last year too, many students had complained of their computers getting hanged during the exam. 

 She complained that the downtime was not compensated with an additional eight minutes as officials at the exam centre refused to reset the timer saying the clock is preset from Mumbai. The MBA-CET 2017 exam is conducted by the directorate of technical education (DTE) for admissions to management colleges across the state. It is also the last among several MBA entrances and thus holds importance for many students. She was allotted Nagpur Institute of Technology (NIT), Katol Road, as the exam centre.
 
 However, joint director of technical education Gulab Thakre told TOI that the aggrieved student should have immediately contacted her office. “The exam is conducted by TCS while our observers are present at the centre. We haven’t received any official complaint of any glitch so far. Still, we will see what can be done in case the student approaches officially,” Thakre said.
 
 NIT chief executive officer (CEO) Rajesh Waigaonkar said there was no glitch and the exam went off smoothly. “I spoke to the college and TCS officials. The girl was unnecesarily creating nuisance at the exam centre”, he said
 
 In a letter to TOI, the student said, “On March 4, 2017, I had appeared for MBA-CET entrance exam at NIT (Nagpur Institute of Technology). Our paper started at 2pm and was scheduled to get over by 4:30pm. Students have to solve 200 questions in 150 minutes. Since there is no negative marking, students prefer to randomly chose the options at the end of exam. But, at exactly 8 mins to go, my system got hanged.” 
 
 She said when she pointed out this to the invigilator even as time was running away, she was shifted to another terminal. “But, by that time only 1 minute and 20 seconds were remaining and the exam closed,” she said. 
 
 According to her, when she complained about the error to one of the officials, he blamed the software and asked her to approach the DTE. They also told her that she only lost four minutes which shouldn’t be an issue.
 
 
