MUMBAI: An inquiry into a long-distance   dangerously speeding over inundated tracks at   station has found the   station master guilty of negligence.

 Western Railway general manager Anil Gupta, who had ordered the high-level inquiry, said: “Disciplinary action will be taken against the station master.” A departmental inquiry will be conducted as the lapse on his part could have led to an accident. Another official has also been held responsible. 
 
 On September 20, video footage of the Jaipur to Pune superfast express speeding by platform 4 of Nalasopara station at 6.45am, throwing up a wave of water and sending commuters scurrying for cover, had gone viral (pic).
 
 According to procedure, alerted by the railway system about water-logging on the tracks, the   of the earlier station should have communicated with the locomotive pilot and ordered a speed restriction. In this case, the water logging was at Nalasopara, and Virar was the earlier station.
 
 Virar station master Bipin Kumar Singh defended himself, saying he had been on duty for almost 16 hours as his reliever could not come on time because of heavy rains. He added that he thought the speed restriction was relaxed for the fast corridor and hence did not communicate with the loco pilot. Permanent way inspector Shaikh Abdul Rahim has also been held responsible as he did not issue a proper memo for speed restriction. His instruction was not commensurate with the water level. 
 
 The water level was 150mm above the top of the rail. “The train should not have been allowed to pass through if there was that much water on the tracks,” said a source.
 
 Also, the person deputed by Rahim on the track was not able to slow down the speeding train. The superfast express headed for Pune hit the inundated stretch at 60-70kmph, and then the pilot applied the brakes to bring the speed down to 30 kmph. It is not possible to spot submerged tracks from a distance at such high speed for the motorman.
 
 The speed at which the train passed was dangerous and there could have been a derailment if there had been damage to the submerged tracks.
 
