NAGPUR: More than a month after RBI shut its window for depositing   by   who were abroad when the note ban came in, the funds have not reached the   of   RBI is cross-checking whether Know Your Customer (KYC) details had been updated in such accounts. It is also ascertaining if any amount in banned notes was deposited in the accounts earlier.

 RBI officials say it could take at least 2-3 months from the date of deposit at its counters for the amount to be credited in a person’s bank account.
 
 In case the KYC conditions are not met, the amount deposited at RBI could be confiscated. A senior official in RBI’s central office at Mumbai said it was a pre-condition that the accounts need to be KYC compliant. The RBI is verifying the details with respective banks, due to which there is a gap in crediting the amounts.
 
 The deadline for resident Indians, who were abroad from November 10 to December 30, 2016, ended on March 31. Non-resident Indians can still deposit notes up to June 30. The notes can only be given in five specified RBI offices across the country. This includes the office in Nagpur, apart from those in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata.
 
 Sources at some of the banks in Nagpur said their branches have recently received sheets from RBI containing names of persons who had deposited  . Banks have been asked to verify whether the accounts are KYC compliant, and if any earlier deposit have been made in old notes. However, TOI also came across certain branches that had not received any communication from RBI so far.
 
 Customers are expected to have updated the KYC before reaching RBI with the old notes. They may not get a second chance to update their KYC details. This means, the account cannot be KYC updated after the notes are deposited at RBI. Without prior KYC compliance, it will be considered that the person’s claim that notes belong to him does not stand.
 
 Those reaching RBI office told TOI that they were not expressly informed that the amount could be confiscated for lack of KYC compliance. The staffers were only asking them to get the KYC done first, without specifying the consequences. No details of KYC compliance were taken at the RBI end and confirmations are now being taken from respective banks.
 
 Mohammed Akbar, a private sector employee from Hyderabad, had deposited Rs4 lakh at RBI Nagpur on March 15. The amount has not been credited to his account yet. Akbar told TOI that RBI staffers gave him no assurance on the time within which the amount will be credited. “The person at the counter said it can happen within a week or maybe a month. She said their job is to only collect the money,” said Akbar.
 
 Officials at commercial banks had contradictory views on getting KYC updated later on. A senior banker said the customers can always get the KYC done as it only requires updating certain details. “The depositors are expected to give correct information while depositing cash at RBI. If the KYC was not done at that time, the cash will be confiscated,” said an RBI official.
 
