PUNE: Displaying unusual grit, a 29-year-old woman not just fended off an armed robber, but also sent him running for cover at her residence on Tuesday.
The incident occurred at  's bungalow in Ozarkarwadi near Hinjewadi, about 25 km from here, around 12.30pm. “Only Savita and her three-year-old son were at the bungalow when the unidentified robber entered their house. Showing presence of mind, Savita locked herself inside the bedroom and raised an alarm, leaving the robber with no other option but to take to his heels,“ police said.
 
 Savita, wife of   member Padurang Ozarkar, has lodged a complaint with the  .
 
 Bajrang Ozarkar, brotherin-law of Savita, told TOI that she did not close the main door of her   properly before going to her bedroom on the first floor. “My brother and I had left home around noon. Within five minutes, my mom too went out for a medical check-up. Around 12.30pm, while Savita was in her bedroom with her son, she heard someone opening the main door of the house,“ Bajrang said.
 
 Out of curiosity, she came down and was shocked to see an unidentified man in the drawing room. As soon as the suspect saw Savita, he took out a knife and started climbing the stairs. “He asked where all the jewellery was kept,“ Bajrang said. Savita promptly told him that the ornaments were kept in the cupboard in the drawing room itself, he added.
 
 As he started climbing down the stairs, he tried to snatch Savita's son from her. “Terrified, Savita pushed him so hard that he lost balance and tumbled down the stairs,“ Bajrang said.
 
 Immediately , Savita rushed to her bedroom and locked it from inside and raised an alarm, prompting neighbours and her relatives staying nearby to rush to the bungalow.
 
 Sensing trouble, the suspect came out and started his bike he had parked outside. He, however, lost his balance and fell off.“He soon got up and fled, leaving his bike,“ Bajrang said.
 
 Robber fled leaving stolen bike
 
 Vishwajeet Khule, inspector of the Hinjewadi police, told TOI that police have recovered the motorcycle owhich the robber came to the spot. “We found that the two-wheeler was stolen from Hinjewadi about four days ago,“ Khule said. The officer said CCTV cameras installed at Savita's house have captured the images of the suspect.
 
