In the run-up to the   elections, more than 3,000 students from different schools and colleges in   were told about the importance of voting at a workshop held at the auditorium of Gautam Buddha University. The event was organized on Monday afternoon.

 The Knowledge Park area is home to 5,000 registered voters, most of them students studying in the various educational institutions in the area. However, the area registered the lowest voter turnout in the district during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. ECI officials say this is what prompted them to begin their awareness drive with college students in the district.
 
  
  Students of Gautam Buddha University check out the model polling booth on campus (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 The message was, however, not disseminated in the form of any boring lecture, but through songs and street plays. Organised jointly by the   and the   district administration, the event saw 20 schools and colleges perform   and song and dance numbers, all of which focussed on the importance of voting. NP Singh, DM, Noida, said, “We thought that instead of having to listen to us, students should learn about the importance of voting from their friends and the message should be conveyed in an engaging manner.”
 
  
  (L-R) Alok Sinha, divisional commissioner(Meerut), Nagendra Pratap Singh, DM (Gautam Budh Nagar), Sanjeev Khirwan, election observer, and   (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 The street plays performed by students of various colleges received the loudest cheer from the audience. While the production of   emphasised on the need of going out and exercising your right to vote, Sharda University’s play talked about the misplaced priorities of the youth. All this was capped by an energetic performance by Delhi-based Asmita Theatre group that highlighted the excuses given by voters for not registering during every polling season. Alok Sinha, divisional commissioner, Meerut zone, said, “It is essential that young people realise the value of one vote. A single vote can decide the outcome of the entire election and hence, it is of great value.”
 
  
  But first, let me take a selfie (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 The venue also had the ECI officials setting up a model polling booth that proved to be quite popular among the students, many of who saw a polling booth and an electronic voting machine for the first time. An official at the booth told us, “Students come up to us and we explain how one casts his/her vote after entering a polling booth and what documents one needs to carry. The idea is to familiarise students with the process.”
 
 
