BHOPAL: An   ripped a house to bits in a thickly populated colony on the   in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, wiping out an entire family of six and injuring at least five relatives. Three of the dead are children. It brought back memories of the horrifying restaurant explosion in Petlawad of September 2015 that killed nearly 100 people.

 The   was so powerful that it left a crater six feet deep, said police. The roof was blown off and mangled body parts were strewn all around. Investigators aren’t sure what triggered the blast. Initial reports suggested there were firecrackers or explosive material stored in the house, but police now say it was an LPG cylinder explosion. “We have found some wrappers of firecrackers and remains of LPG cylinders from the site. It is not easy to say which one exploded first,” said Datia SP Irshad Wali.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of those killed.
 
 “Five members of a family were killed on the spot. A young girl died of her injuries during treatment in hospital,” Datia SDM Virendra Katare told TOI.
 
 The blast took place in the house of Rashid Khan in Datia’s Seonda area at 11 am, causing extensive damage to neighbouring houses. The dead include Rashid, 45, his wife Ruby, 40, sister Razia, 22, son Ashiq, 5, and daughter Ashiqi, 8. Rashid’s niece Sajili, 8, died while being taken to Gwalior Medical College.
 
 After initial investigations, police said that Rashid — who also deals in firecrackers — had stored three LPG cylinders in his house for the weddings of his sister and brother on April 23.
 
 “I think the blast was caused by the explosion of all three cylinders. There were no explosives inside the house,” said Mulayam Singh Yadav, town inspector of Seonda police station. “The family was preparing a meal for relatives and guests. There were around 15 people in the house when the explosion took place. Those who were caught inside died on the spot. Those who were standing outside escaped with injuries,” added Yadav. Rashid’s brother was in Dabra, Gwalior, at the time of explosion.
 
 While forensic experts are investigating what triggered the blast, police suspect negligence caused the cylinders to explode. Police haven’t completely ruled out the possibility of explosive materials, say sources.
 
 “Prima facie, it seems that LPG cylinders exploded, but we are not sure. The bomb squad and forensic experts are trying to ascertain the cause,” said Datia SP Irshad Wali. Locals say Rashid had got a 15-day licence for firecrackers from the administration last Diwali, which has long expired. Intelligence officials and the ATS were put on alert for detailed investigations. 
 
