LUDHIANA: Ludhiana police commissioner R N Dhoke has ordered an inquiry into an incident wherein a police officer allegedly slapped a man inside a police station and later put him behind bars. The man had gone with his friend to file a case of assault against the latter’s neighbour.

 The police officer, however, pleaded innocence claiming that the two parties were creating ruckus and making videos.
 
  of Tibba road alleged that on May 14 evening, he got a call from his friend   that the neighbours have attacked him. He added that he along with other friends reached the house of Tilak Raj and later called the police control room.
 
 Rakesh alleged even after an hour, police didn’t turn up. In the meantime, they came to know that assistant sub-inspector (ASI)   was on duty at Jodhewal police station. He added that as they called on his number, he refused to come to the spot as he didn’t have a team.
 
 Rakesh further alleged that when they went to the police station in the evening, the ASI didn’t take much interest in their case. He added that when they asked for prompt action into the matter, the police officer started abusing them and even slapped him.
 
 He alleged that the ASI later put him behind bars. As he was not let off even after an hour, his friends called up the SHO after which he was released.
 
 Police officials said as the ASI was allegedly abusing Rakesh, his friends made a video of the same and posted it on social networking sites. They added that the complainant then showed the same to Police commissioner R N Dhoke.
 
 Commissioner of police said an inquiry would be conducted by the area ACP. He added that he is yet to get inquiry report and will take necessary legal action after he receives the same.
 
 The ASI, meanwhile, claimed that allegations against him are baseless and he is innocent. He added the two sides had come to the police station and created scene before making a video of the same.
 
 Past incident
 
 April 29 | Two police officers had allegedly beaten up a mentally unstable person in broad daylight after he started behaving abnormally at a chowk near Jagraon bridge
 
