MAPUSA: The   is the only reserved constituency. It is reserved for scheduled castes. Once the bastion of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), the   (BJP) has held sway over it since 2007. The February 4 assembly polls are likely to see a closely fought battle between MGP’s Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar and BJP’s Rajendra Arlekar despite there being a total of eight candidates in the fray.

 Also in the fray for the assembly seat to Pernem are Congress’ Vikesh Asnotikar, Goa Vikas Party’s (GVP) Gopaldas Arlekar, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Shivanand Pilarnkar, Goa Praja Party’s (GPP) Dynasheshwar Warkhandekar, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP)  , and Bahujan Mukti Part (BMP) Nitin Chopdekar.
 
 Pernem constituency is comprised of 12 panchayats and one municipality which includes, Ibrampur, Hankhane, Chandel, Hasapur, Vazri, Alorna, Dhargalim, Torxem, Tamboxem, Mopa, Uguem, Khaznem, Poroscodem, Korgao, some part of Virnoda panchayat and Pernem municipality.
 
 In 2012, the Dhargalim constituency was merged with the Pernem constituency, making it reserved for scheduled caste and reducing the number of constituencies in the Pernem taluka from three (Dhargalim, Pernem, Mandrem) to two (Pernem and Mandrem). 
 
 The roar of the lion dominated the constituency from 1967 to 1980. Its winning streak was broken in 1984 by   of the Congress before the MGP staged a resurgence and held firm sway over its bastion from 1989 to 1994. In 1999, and once again in 2002, Jitendra Deshprabhu won it for the Congress. The lotus bloomed in this constituency in 2007 and has stayed in bloom since. 
 
 This time, the main contestants, Azgaonkar and Arlekar, are contesting for the second time from the Pernem constituency, but both are not natives of Pernem. While Azgoankar is from Margao, Arlekar is from Vasco, where he stood and lost in 2007 on the BJP ticket against NCP’s Jose Philip D’Souza.
 
 There were initial hiccups over Arlekar’s candidature, but the issue was resolved and he was nominated as BJP’s Pernem candidate. Sources say that it is not that the BJP had another winnable candidate there. A faction within the BJP had been waiting for an opportunity to replace him as the party’s candidate, because, in the party’s internal survey conducted a few months ago, his performance was found lacking. Based on that feedback the party shortlisted another probable candidate. Eventually, the party ticket went to Arlekar. 
 
 The BJP is trying hard to retain the seat. It has a good organizational set up and some national leaders are also expected to campaign in the constituency.
 
 On the other hand, Azgonkar has a good connect with the electorate. The BJP wave of 2012 saw him lose to Arlekar, quiet badly, even though, as minister for panchayats in the Digambar Kamat government he had put up small projects.
 
 A soon as the MGP broke away from the BJP, Azgonkar quit Congress and joined the MGP. However, many of the prominent Congress workers did not join him, and are still holding on to the Congress flag there. Vithu Morajkar, who was with the BJP, had lost narrowly in 2007. Though he was to get the ticket, the Congress gave it to Vikesh Asnotikar. He said he is with the party and will work for the candidate. 
 
 Pernem constituency has seen two big projects during this BJP tenure. A multipurpose bus-stand-cum-market project and a full-fledged police station. The government is claiming the Mopa airport project will change the face of the constituency. 
 
  Resentment against the government, coupled with U-turns on several issues, the BJP will not have it easy. But Arlekar with his experience and the work he has undertaken, especially after he became minister for forest and environment little more than two years ago, will have personal votes to his advantage. The BJP election machinery is also expected to put in all their resources behind him to retain the seat. 
 
 The result will be known only on March 11.
 
