PUNE: The Bombay high court has confirmed   to two partners in a real estate firm against whom 11 prospective home buyers, mostly IT professionals from outside Pune, had lodged FIRs last year alleging cheating of over Rs 2.08 crore.

 On October 26 last year, the high court had granted an interim pre-arrest bail to Abhijit Subhash Gaikwad and his brother, Ajit, partners in A G Constructions at Aundh, on condition that they deposit Rs 2.08 crore with the court’s registry. They have deposited the amount with the court.
 
 Justice  , while confirming the pre-arrest bails on February 6, considered the deposit effected by the applicants and also a police complaint filed by the latter against one of their agents, Bhushan Saraf, for allegedly collecting Rs 2.08 crore in the firm’s name in a fake account opened in a private bank. Saraf is absconding. 
 
 The complainants had alleged that they paid between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh as booking amounts to Saraf, who was operating from A G Constructions’ office, for flats in ‘Gracia’ scheme in Kharadi between November 2015 and January 2016. The flats were sold to others.
 
 A G Constructions maintained that it had nothing to do with the scheme, which was developed by another company Gaikwad and Tupe Associates and that it never received the money purportedly paid by the 11 complainants.
 
 Incidentally, Abhijit and Ajit, are also partners in Gaikwad and Tupe Associates set up by their relatives Vijay Dagadu Tupe and   Tupe. The complainants alleged that they dealt with Saraf and paid the booking amounts on Abhijit’s instructions.
 
 On January 13 last year, Abhijit lodged an FIR against Saraf with the Chandannagar police for allegedly collecting the money in a fake account opened in a private bank, showing Saraf as sole proprietor of A G Constructions.
 
 Referring to the complaints and documents on record, Justice Bhatkar observed, “It appears that Bhushan Saraf was working as agent or sub-agent for the applicants/accused. However, after going through the complaint lodged on January 13, 2016 and after going through a photocopy of the form submitted by Bhushan Saraf at the time of opening of the account, prima facie it appears that Bhushan Saraf has opened a fake account in the name of A G Constructions where he represented himself as proprietor.”
 
 The court directed the two applicants to cooperate with the investigating officer and attend the concerned police station as and when called by the police. They have also been restrained from leaving India without prior permission of the court. 
 
 
