RANCHI:   Droupadi Murmu on Wednesday stressed on the need to convert the century-old   (CIP) at Kanke, Ranchi, into an   to help it address the growing problems associated with  . 

 Inaugurating the centenary celebrations at CIP, Murmu said she has apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister J P Nadda on the subject with a request that CIP be granted all infrastructural and other support provided by the Centre to National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), Bengaluru.
 
 "The growing incidence of alcohol addiction, substance abuse, depression, rise in suicides and deaths, particularly among the younger generation, should be everybody's concern and should not be left to mental health professionals alone. Every one - parents, mental health doctors and the entire society - needs to rise to the occasion to ensure families do not lose their loved ones," Murmu stressed. "The pressure on children to excel in exams is overwhelming. With so much of competition in every field, parents are needed to play a pivotal role in preparing young minds to face every day challenges of life," she said.
 
 Meanwhile, at a continuing medical education session organized at CIP on the occasion, Girish N Rao of Centre for Public Health, Nimhans, pointed out that as per the National Mental Health Care Survey 2016, compiled on the basis of a representative sample of 12 states of the country, Jharkhand has a high prevalence of mental illness of around 11.1%, higher than the national average of 10.6%. "The incidence of all types of mental illness in Jharkhand is higher than the metros or other urban centres, particularly in the 40 to 49 age group followed by the above-60 group. Added to this is a high treatment gap - as much as 70% - caused more by a severe dearth of mental healthcare professionals in the state," Rao stressed.
 
 Inaugurated on May 17, 1918, as European Lunatic Asylum to cater to mental illness of Europeans and Anglo Indian patients only, the name of the institute was changed to European Mental Hospital in 1922. After Independence, the name was changed again to Inter Provincial Mental Hospital with the Union government taking over the management in 1954. In 1977, the name was once again changed to Hospital for Mental Diseases. Later the same year it was renamed Central Institute of Psychiatry.
 
 
