KOLKATA: Having failed to find enough takers for the posts of principal in government and government-aided colleges, the state education department has decided to re-introduce the position of vice-principal. It has been decided the vice-principal will be asked to take charge in case a college doesn't have a principal.

 Several incidents of violence on campus and constant interference from the student unions have been a hindrance to appointing principals in recent years. Announcing this at the state assembly on Thursday , education minister   added the government will phase out the posts of teachers-in-charge.
 
 “We had 177 vacancies for principals and we have been able to fill up 66 posts. Not too many people are interested in a promotion to join as the principal. We are holding discussions with the governing bodies of all colleges and trying to convince them to give emoluments in order to make the post lucrative to seek more applicants. Chief minister   has also extended her support and asked the college principals not to accept any undue pressure from any quarter,“ said Chatterjee.
 
 Later, Chatterjee said in most cases, the teachers-incharge were shifting all responsibilities and decisionmaking on to the college governing bodies (GBs). “We have requested the GBs to give reimbursements for mobile or telephone bills and also to provide fuel costs to the college principals. The governing bodies will now decide the limit of money which can be allotted to provide such emoluments. The principals will also receive Rs 3,000 more as salary . We will ask the GBs to chalk out similar emoluments for vice-principals as well. To make the post accountable, we are also considering some additional salary to the selected vice-principals which shall be less than that of the principals,“ said a source.
 
 Vice-principals will be appointed from among seniormost teachers in colleges in the rank of associate professor or senior assistant professor. The   will fix the eligibility criteria.
 
 
 
 The state government's move to reintroduce the post of vice-principals is a good one.Because, in the absence of such apost, it became easier for some college authorities to find excuses and shirk responsibility.
 
