NEW DELHI:   Chief Minister and JD(U)’s national president Nitish Kumar’s talks with AICC vice-president   over deputy CM and   leader Tejashwi Prasad’s resignation underlines Congress party’s urgent required role in saving Bihar’s ruling grand alliance in its own political interest.
 
  While Nitish’s return to   means direct invitation to a risk on the part of Congress to revive its old bases in the state, BJP has reasons to celebrate its possible friendship with him (Nitish) in order to see a chance for tri-polar politics (BJP, RJD and JD-U ) at the cost of Congress. Apart from fighting a battle in the name of "communalism versus secularism", Congress party is in no position to allow the BJP to remain sole contender for anti-Lalu votes, particularly upper castes at least in Bihar.
  
  "This is significant that CM Nitishji preferred to meet Rahul Gandhi instead of his mother and UPA chairperson  .
  
  Those who are close to Sonia are considered to be the supporters of RJD chief and former CM Lalu Prasad within Bihar’s grand alliance. Most of the Congress leaders in Sonia camp are unable to understand the dynamic of Bihar politics," a source in JD (U) told ET on the condition of anonymity.
  
  What is considered to be good for the BJP in case of its alliance with the JD (U) is that it can easily woo the voters of most backward castes (MBC) or non-Yadav among the OBC. CM Kumar’ JD(U) has gradually consolidated a strong support base among non-Yadav OBC in its favour. In view of the existence of grand alliance having Nitish on its side, BJP’s problem is that it finds difficult to bring the MBC votes in its favour on the pattern of UP Assembly polls. This clearly explains BJP’s willingness to see Nitish in its camp.
  
  Since BJP is concerned for putting up a good show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bihar, it has almost taken a risk of further consolidating RJD’s Muslim-Yadav equations in the state by directly targeting RJD chief Lalu and his family members on alleged corruption issue.
  
  Even a section of leaders within JD(U) and BJP felt that the latest actions against RJD chief Lalu and his family members by the central agencies like CBI and ED has only helped RJD to strengthen its Muslim-Yadav equations in the state. They hope for a sympathy wave among Yadavs in favour of Lalu and his family members. RJD leaders are leaving no chance to present the corruption cases against its leaders as an attempt to kill the Yadav leadership in Bihar. If it is such a case, BJP has little options but to counter RJD by hoping JD(U) on its side.
  
  Moreover, BJP had not gained required support among Mahadalits despite joining hands with former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi in the 2015 Assembly polls.
