TRICHY: An opinion poll being conducted by Nagapattinam MLA M   at his office on Monday to gauge if people in his assembly segment wanted him to support chief minister   or AIADMK general secretary VK   came to an abrupt end after followers of the leaders tried to influence people who came to participate in it.

 Ansari is the leader of Manithaneya Jananayaka Katchi, a faction group of  . He won the 2016 assembly elections by contesting on the AIADMK symbol.
 
 Hundreds of people gathered at the MJK office in Nagapattinam town on Monday morning to cast their votes, following prior announcement made by the party on Sunday through social media and local print and electronic media. The poll which commenced at 9 am in the presence of Thamimun Ansari and party workers was going on peacefully when a group headed by Arivazhagan, party’s presidium chairman of Nagapattinam town, started canvassing for VK Sasikala. Upon learning about this, supporters of O Panneerselvam headed by Nagarajan, a party functionary, rushed to the MJK office and enterted into heated arguments with the rival group. 
 
 With the situation turning violent, Ansari stopped polling and locked his office with the ballot box in it. 
 
 When contacted, personal assistant of Ansari told TOI that they stopped polling to prevent any untoward incident as both the groups were creating ruckus in front of the office. He added that the poll was conducted after obtaining due permission from the police. 
 
 “More than 2,000 people have cast their forms in three hours. These forms will be handed over to our party headquarters. The final stand will be arrived at on the state executive committee decision. Most probably, our decision will be announced by tomorrow,” he said.
 
 Thamimun Ansari, whose faction broke away from Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and formed Manithaneya Janahayaka Katchi, contested on the AIADMK symbol and won the Nagapattinam seat with a margin of 20,550 votes. He secured 64,903 votes against 44,353 polled by A   of the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi of the DMK alliance.
 
