PATNA: There’s a good news for Patnaites sweating buckets these days: Pre-monsoon rainfall is forecast on May 26, 27 and 28.

 Skymet in its weather report for Bihar on Monday said thunderstorm and dust-storm activities with one to two spells of thundershower are expected over Bihar by May 26-27. The intensity of showers may gradually increase in Bihar and nearby Jharkhand. The report has attributed the expected rainfall to formation of a trough over Bihar and a simultaneous low pressure over the northwest  . 
 
 The weather agency has said the trough will attract humid winds from the Bay of Bengal, which will lead to moisture incursion over Bihar and adjoining areas. 
 
 According to Skymet, there are expectations of few good spells of thundershower along with lightning strikes over many parts of Bihar by the end of this month. This will lead to decrease in temperatures. Even the ongoing above normal temperatures will come down to near-normal.
 
  Meteorological Centre’s weather scientist Anand Shankar said the monsoon advancement would also get a push with the formation of cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal. Monsoon is normally expected to hit the Kerala coast by June 1 and reach Bihar by June 10-12.
 
 Meanwhile, mercury in Bihar is setting new records every day. Such is the heat in Patna these days that even desert cities like Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Dubai and   are cooler than Bihar’s capital by several notches. 
 
 While Patna’s maximum temperature was 41.4 degree C, according to private weather forecaster Accuweather.com, the ‘Pink City’ of Rajasthan recorded 35 degree C maximum and Jaisalmer 36 degree C maximum on Monday. Dubai’s day temperature was 38 degree C on Monday .
 
 The “mercury mayhem” along with high level of humidity has added to the discomfort factor. “As a thumb rule, we measure the discomfort factor by simply adding the maximum temperature and relative humidity. The discomfort factor is said to be prevailing at a place when the combination of the maximum temperature and relative humidity at the place is higher than 55 degree C,,” said a meteorologist at the  . 
 
 The highest discomfort factor in Patna on Monday was measured around 75 degree C between 2.30pm to 3pm when the temperature reading was around 40 degree C and relative humidity around 35%, the meteorlogist added.
 
