CHENNAI: While the first two days largely saw a young, male, student population at the Marina, on the third and fourth days women were in full force not just during the daytime but also

 till the wee hours of the morning. From college students to working professionals to grandmothers, the protest saw entire families occupying the Marina.
 
 Students from Stella Maris, MOP Vaishnav and Ethiraj College could be seen shouting slogans, giving speeches, holding up placards, wearing helmets with cardboard horns. Even in protests led by other institutions such as  , women took centre stage. “The crowd goes electric when women use age-old Tamil sayings like ‘we are a race of people who have driven tigers away with sieves’ to prove their point,” said Vignesh S commerce student from Loyola College.
 
 His friend, Thirumurgan also chips in, “That parents are allowing girls to come out so late, stay the night at a beach, chat with strange men on WhatsApp are unheard of. Almost overnight a cultural revolution has taken place, thanks to our Kangeyam bulls.”
 
 For S Priya Raghunathan, a student of SIET College in  , it is the first time she has had a nightout. “My father believes in the cause. For three nights he also joined me to protest after his
 work,” she said.
 
 Fisherfolk women from economically underprivileged backgrounds also spoke on the mike. While many were first timers to public-speaking, they were vociferous in their demands. “Chennai floods, cyclone vardah, jallikattu has brought us together. Now let us fight for
 
 Cauvery. And raise our voice for farmers,” said a woman.
 
 The decency of the crowd has been a much-talked about point. “In my whole life I have never stepped out of my house to raise slogans. But this is cause that we all care about — our native breeds such as Thiruchengodu, Puliyakulam, Kangeyam, Semmarai are unique. They need to be preserved,” said  , a 32-year-old homemaker, who protested in Vadapalani Signal with her son Jayanth.
 
 S Hariharan, a medical representative, was unable to go to the protests at Marina, but his 60-plus mother-in-law took his six-year-old son to the venue. And the boy found several of his age for company to hold placards — a sight too cute for passing revellers not to photograph.
 
 
