KOLKATA: The curiosity that Dan Brown’s ‘Da Vinci Code’ had kindled on Freemasonry continues to intrigue, so much so that the second oldest masonic grand lodge in the world, located in the heart of the city, is often the subject of hushed conversations. Misunderstandings about the secret customs of the   have built up over the ages to an extent that the lodges are likened to haunted houses and the inmates or brothers are called keepers of dark secrets. 

 However, all that is set to change with the District Grand Lodge of Bengal on   staging a play upon the basic tenets of Freemasonry. Never before in the history of Freemasonry in India have the brotherhood come forward to publicly stage a show.
 
 The play ‘Three Knocks’ is a murder mystery with plots and sub plots that start unwinding following masonic codes. “It is a two-hour play and will take the viewer through a maze of codes and as you reach the end you find your answers to what you thought so long as masonic secrets,” said Amit Dutt, a mason and writer of the play. 
 
 “It might sound mysterious, but there are deeper meanings which, once explained, are bound to bring every human being face to face with one’s deeper self in communion with the architect of the universe, who remains the same, no matter which religion,” said district grand master, Krupakaran David. 
 
 Scheduled to be performed at Gyan Manch on March 9, the play builds upon the basic tenets of Freemasonry — “seek and ye shall find; ask and ye shall have; knock and it shall be opened unto you”.
 
 Though the origin of Freemasonry goes back to the third century, its modern beginning is taken to be June 24, 1717, when masons united themselves under a grand master in the  . That makes Freemasonry 300 years old and the brethren are celebrating it the world over. Interestingly, the District Grand Lodge of Bengal was established just 10 years later in 1727, making it extremely important in the Freemason hierarchy. It is said that even  , before he accepted monkhood, was a Freemason who was initiated at the Park Street lodge.
 
 A lot of mystery shrouds the ways of the Freemasons who are guided by symbols and cryptic codes. Women are also kept out of the core meetings and prayers in most lodges. All meetings happen behind locked doors and the arrival of a brother is announced through the famous “three knocks”. “The main purpose of Freemasonry is charity. Yes ours is a rigidly coded system, but everything is guided by the Old Testament and basic scientific principles that guide the universe. But there is no reason to think that the Lodge is a place for secret practices or black magic,” explained David.
 
 
