MUMBAI: It's something you probably never imagined would be possible, not in Mumbai's waters at least. But the weekend spanning March 3-5 will give citizens of the city a chance to savour some high octane powerboating action when the  ,  , makes its debut by the shoreline of the picturesque Marine Drive.

 A brainchild of P1 Powerboat, the Grand Prix of the Seas, backed by the   (UIM) -the world governing body for all Powerboating activities -was launched here on Thursday by domestic partners   and will feature the world's best pilots battle for supremacy in identical P1 Panther powerboats, in a team format. What sets this event apart from others under the global P1 umbrella, according to the organisers, is the action will unfold along a 5.2 km defined race track -the first ever on water.
 
 "Historically offshore racing has been built around bigger boats going longer distances," said Robert  , chief operating officer, Powerboat P1. "10 or 15 boats head off in a direction and two hours later, somebody comes back waving a chequered flag. There is no connect. What we are doing here is creating a course on water where, if you were sitting in a helicopter looking down, you would see the outline of the race track. That sort of thing has not been done in offshore racing. It's very unique," he added.
 
 The other distinct feature of this competition which, authorities are hoping motorsport enthusiasts will come to appreciate, is the fact that man and not machine will ultimately determine the winner. While revealing the long-term plan of creating a world championship,  , chief executive officer, Powerboat P1 said a key objective was to make the sport as inclusive as possible. "How do we know they are the best? Because they are racing in identical boats," Durbin said.
 
 "Whether you win or lose the race, it's all down to the pilots of that boat. That's so important. In the history of powerboat racing, or in motorsport, that hasn't always been the case.
 
 "It's often a technology battle of who has the most money, who can afford to do different things to their boat to make it go faster. That's not the case here where they are stockboats, meaning they are all identical and it comes down to the skill of the pilots to win the race."
 
 Wicks was quick to add: "We don't want this to be a chequebook motorsport. So the engines are all identical, same horsepower, and they are sealed. So a mechanic or technician can't get in and change the engine during the race weekend at all."
 
 
 
 
 Nexa P1Powerboat, India Grand Prix of the Seas, is the first of the UIM recognized Grand Prix of the Seas.
 
 The 5-tier hierarchal structure will consist of a World Cup at the apex (to be held biennially starting in 2020) the Grand Prix of the Seas series, which will define a World Champion, inter-continental series, national series and regional series in orders of level of competition.
 
 The race weekend for the Indian Grand Prix of the Seas will have 7 teams competing, with every team comprising two P1Panther powerboats
 
 Each powerboat is manned by a pilot and navigator competing in identical boats along a 5.2 km defined race track, the first ever on water.
 
 The podium teams will be decided by the combined best times of both boats based on the skills of the team's pilots and navigators post two races on March 4 and one Grand Final on Sunday, March 5.
 
 With the best pilots and navigators from the world participating, the race weekend will also be witness to the first-ever sport in India that has male and female as equal participants. 
 
 
