NEW DELHI: The   decided on Wednesday to refer to a larger bench a petition filed by former additional solicitor general   seeking replacement of the present opaque system of HCs and SC designating lawyers as ‘senior advocates’ with a fair, transparent and inclusive process. 

 Jaising had filed the petition in July, 2015 questioning the last round of such designations conferred by the apex court on some advocates. For nearly two years since the SC entertained her petition, the apex court had not designated any lawyer as senior advocate.
 
 While some HCs have also stopped designating lawyers as senior advocates awaiting guidelines from the SC, some other HCs are continuing the practice. The  , through senior advocate Shyam Divan, said the old system should be permitted to work till the SC came out with an alternative as those young lawyers who are on the threshold of breaking the barrier to deserve senior designation remain frustrated.
 
 But, appearing for National Lawyers’ Campaign for Judicial Transparency, advocate Mathew Nedumpara said the provision permitting designation of senior advocate was unconstitutional as it created two classes of advocates without there being any rationale behind it. “As a result, the senior advocates have created an exclusive elitist club,” he said.
 
 A bench of Justices Ranjan Gogoi and Navin Sinha said the petitions raise an issue of seminal importance and because any decision of the apex court would have ramifications for advocates across the country, it was of the tentative view that the petitions be placed before the Chief Justice for assigning it to a three-judge bench.
 
 On July 24, 2015, the SC had agreed to judicially examine fairness of its secret administrative procedure to designate ‘senior advocates’ after many reputed senior advocates closed ranks with Indira Jaising, the first woman to hold the designation, to question it.
 
 In the process, the court had issued notice to itself, advocates’ regulatory body,   (BCI), two lawyers’ associations in Supreme Court and Attorney General seeking their response to Jaising’s petition terming the present process of designating ‘senior advocates’ as opaque, arbitrary and fraught with nepotism.
 
