Nagpur: Even as Nagpur University officials are facing brickbats for coming late to office, their efforts to improve the examination system are being appreciated all over the state.

 Now Mumbai University, considered topmost among traditional ones, has sought NU’s help to tide over a crisis. It would be sending about two lakh answer books of undergraduate commerce students to NU for evaluation. It is for first time that NU would be evaluating answer sheets of another university. In the past, NU used to send its own answer sheets, particularly of engineering faculty, to other universities for evaluation, officials said.
 
 NU lent a helping hand to MU as the latter has to complete entire evaluation of its summer examinations before July 31 deadline set by chancellor C Vidyasagar Rao. The prestigious university was in trouble after it failed to evaluate over 22 lakh answer books of summer exams. It was only after being pulled up by the chancellor that it actually started evaluation work on a war footing.
 
 “Out of 22 lakh answer books, some 7 lakh belonged to commerce faculty. Last time when I met with MU vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh, he asked whether we could help them with evaluation. I readily agreed as most of our evaluation is already over,” VC SP Kane told TOI.
 
 After MU’s proposal, VC contacted senior academician Baban Taywade, who has good hold on the commerce faculty. Latter also agreed to rope in teachers from his faculty to evaluate the huge number of answer sheets. He also offered about 300 computers in Shivaji Science and Dhanwate national college for the purpose. “We have made him coordinator for the entire work. MU had already scanned two lakh answer books. MU technicians would be arriving in the city for installing their software in these terminals. Two teachers from the university would also accompany them to oversee the work and resolve difficulties,” Kane said adding the actual work would commence from Sunday and be completed within a couple of weeks.
 
 The process is highly technical and both sides need to follow certain norms, as per Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. “We sent names of our evaluators and their mobile numbers through e-mail to MU and their officer on special duty (OSD) Dalvi approved them. Now, our teachers should respond positively,” he added while expressing concern.
 
 The teachers have a good reason to respond as they would be receiving a remuneration of Rs20/paper from MU, unlike Rs10/paper offered by the NU, which may add to their kitty. “Many other universities are wanting to study our examination system, as we had set new records of declaring over 80% summer exam results within 30 days. Even Aurangabad University VC visited the exam section for same purpose,” an elated VC said.
 
 
