BENGALURU: The   is going gung-ho about having a separate flag for the state while seemingly ignoring more pertinent concerns relating to Kannada language and border issues, either due to   or sheer indifference.

 A classic case is chief minister Siddaramaiah’s decision to appoint controversial former textiles minister   the chairman of Karnataka State Border Area Development Authority. Notwithstanding an impending legal battle with Maharashtra in the Supreme Court over the disputed border, some Kannada activist allege that the CM chose to appoint Chinchansur to mollify the Koli community (scheduled tribe) to which Chinchansur belongs. Chinchansur had raised a banner of revolt after he was dropped from the cabinet during a reshuffle undertaken by the CM in June 2016.
 
 Though he had balanced Chichansur’s exit by inducting Rudrappa Lamani, the CM still succumbed to pressure and appointed Chinchansur the chairman of Karnataka State Border Area Development Authority, keeping in view his clout over the Koli community in Hyderabad-Karnatak region. 
 
 “He (Chinchansur) has no clue about the problems or legal aspects associated with the state border and he hasn’t been active since he was appointed,” said Ashok Chandargi, an activist fighting on border issues and the president of the Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee. 
 
 The government also chose to ignore the two-year old demand to set up a regional office of Karnataka Border Protection Commission (KBPC) in Belagavi. “We have been demanding the government set up a regional office, considering its chairman and other staffers have to shuttle between Bengaluru and the disputed border districts of north Karnataka. This has not only taken a toll on the state exchequer but also on our time and energy,” said an official associated with the commission.
 
 Last year, S Rajendra Babu the chairman of KBPC and former Chief Justice of India had resigned reportedly citing lack of facilities to discharge his duties effectively, but was persuaded by the government to continue.
 
 Classical status: The Karnataka government has also failed to make use of the classical status granted to Kannada by the Centre in 2008. “Neither has it earmarked adequate funds nor has it provided space at Mysuru University as was promised by Siddaramaiah,” said a Kannada scholar associated with Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru.
 
 In 2011, the Planning Commission allocated Rs 10.9 crore in the 12th Five Year Plan to set up a Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Languages (Kannada and Telugu) at CIIL, Mysuru, but the government decided to shift the centre to Bengaluru. “Following protests, it decided to establish the centre at Mysuru University, but nothing has moved since then,” said R Chalapathy, a senior fellow at CIIL.
 
 The centre is headless after its director resigned over a legal issue four months ago and the state made no attempt to impress upon the ministry of human resource development to appoint a new director. Two committees headed by the CM were formed to draft a plan to utilize facilities provided to classical language, but nothing much has happened. “Boasting that Kannada is a classical language isn’t enough. There should be visible development to inspire people to learn Kannada,” said some writer-activists.
 
