NAGPUR: With expectations running high and the promise of delivering something different hanging low at the Deshpande hall on Saturday, the audience came prepared for some good renditions of Bollywood compositions and got to hear the stories behind them too. ‘Sameer ki Anjani Shaam’ was a unique musical concert designed by the song writer which featured 26 songs written by him and his illustrious father Anjaan.

 Organized by   to help it raise funds for welfare of underprivileged children, the musical concert had city singers rendering the old and new hits.   who was in conversation with anchor Shweta Shelgaonkar, revelled in the moment as he narrated the stories behind such hit numbers like ‘Rote huye aate hain sab’, ‘Aapke hasin rukh pe’, ‘Sason ki zaroorat hai jaise’.
 
 Expressing his continuous desire to write for the common man, Sameer said that he believed in using words which added an emotion to the song and could also be understood by the listener. “Nazar ke saamney’, was a song which I wrote in 15 minutes. It speaks of extreme loneliness and has feelings which must have been felt by everybody sometime in their lives,” he said about the superhit song from ‘Aashiquee’ which fetched him his first Filmfare award.
 
 Speaking about the lessons of life which he had learnt from his father, the song writer said, “He always told me that only two things change in this world, one is the weather and other is time. We should always remain constant in our behaviour towards others, he would say.” Describing the making of songs from the blockbuster film ‘Muqaddar Ka Sikandar’, Sameer said, “My father could understand the situations and underlying sentiment well and that’s what made these songs such hits.”
 
 It’s a combination of words,   and singer which make for a great song, Sameer said while terming Madan Mohan’s composition ‘Lag jaa gale ki phir haseen raat’, as his all-time favourite. “For ‘Baghban’ when I wrote the song ‘Tum wahan main yahan’, BR Chopra who had lost his wife recently began to cry saying that nothing could describe his condition better. Similarly, the song ‘Dil toh hai dil’ is very poignant and every word is loaded with deep meaning,” he said.
 
 Singers Surabhi Dhomane, Sagar Madhumatke, Ajay Malik, Manjari Vaidya and Mukul Pande along with a fine team of musicians did full justice to the songs which included hits like ‘Salaame ishq’, ‘Kaisi deewangi’, ‘Pardesi pardesi’ and ‘Ghungat ki aad se’.
 
 
