MUMBAI:  's fairytale I-League triumph, India's surge to the top 100 and the   U-17 World Cup to be played here later this year has all added to the positivity sur rounding Indian football. There is something, though, that sticks out like a sore thumb; the merger between Indian Super League ( ) and I-League.   ( ) president   throws light on several contentious issues in this exclusive interview with 
 . 
 
 
We feel it will take some more time for the integration of the two leagues. There are various reasons; the structure of both leagues is different, particularly with the franchise fee. Instead of merging from this year, we will do over a period of two or three years in a structured manner where issues can be narrowed down. We don't want pain for either I-League or ISL clubs. The ISL has some contractual obligations. They are city-based teams and for some number of years, other teams will not be able to play in the same city. While unifying the leagues, we have to ensure that the importance of I-League clubs is not reduced. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Not at all. Aizawl and this has no connection. This is something that is being discussed for a long time. Aizawl is a new club and I see no reason why they should be complaining. We are proud that they put up a spirited show and won the league, but don't forget that last year they were relegated and it was AIFF who reinstated them, at their request. This kind of negativity about AIFF approach is unfair and unjustified. The issue has always been more about legacy clubs like   and East Bengal who have won many honours.
 
 
 
 We agree to that. It's a temporary solution only for the next two to three years. We are therefore proposing that I-League remains the premier tournament and give it our fullest support. We are expanding the number of teams, so players will get more opportunities, fans will get (to see) more matches. Why should the I-League feel inferior? The I-League coverage (this season) has been much better. Matches have been more competitive than ISL games. There is no reason to fear. We assure that when the transition takes place, we will have a proper roadmap where all these issues will be addressed. Contractual issues (with ISL franchises) end after the next two seasons.
 
 
 
 Yes, yes. There is no question about it. I-League will continue to be the league of the country for next three years till both merge and become one league. We will not do anything until the   gives us an approval to what we are doing. We will explain our road map to AFC and Fifa. Only when they approve, this can move forward.
 
 
 
 In a dual structure, I-League will remain the premier league with champions getting a AFC Champions League play-off slot. The league will be covered by Star Sports and have weekend games. There will be better coverage on television and marketing will be at a very high level. We only want the clubs to improve the stadium attendance. That's the only thing Star (Sports) is concerned about.
 
 
 
 I-League is the only league we have at the moment. It's a misnomer that ISL has encroached on the revenue or space of I-League. ISL, in fact, has introduced companies to Indian football which didn't exist before. How can we deny that ISL brought in new energy to football? While I respect everything that people have been saying, you have to see that there is a little bit of different perspective (to Indian football), thanks to ISL. People are watching more football; did so many people go to the stadiums (in the past)? Let us not undermine the good things that are happening in Indian football: improvement in infrastructure, grassroots development, sprouting of academies, improvement in our (Fifa) ranking, new teams, new cities promoting football.
 
 
 
 That's why for three years, we will have to make some adjustments.
 
 
 
 Not necessarily. Aizawl FC won the I-League with a budget of Rs 2.5 crore while some teams had a budget over Rs 10 crore.   plays for Bengaluru FC but Aizawl became champions. So what's the definition of a best player? 
 
 
 
 ISL will have to reduce their component of foreign players. It's envisaged that in next two years, ISL and I-League will have the same component of foreign players.
 
 
 
 In which way are we doing that? We are trying to find the best solution. We have made a proposal to the AFC and they have to agree. We are meeting with AFC (officials) in the next few days and we will take a call. If anyone has a perfect solution, we are willing to listen to them.
 
 
