Thane: The traffic police have cracked the whip on over 700 errant auto drivers and collected a   amount of Rs three lakh in the last 3 days for failing to pin up the basic details in their auto rickshaws.

 The traffic police had stepped up the action against the auto drivers following a spate of violent incidents where the commuter was abused and assaulted. The attack on the 23-year-old woman by two auto-drivers last month had prompted the police to issue an order wherein all the auto drivers will have to put up their   along with their photographs in the auto. The details should be placed in such a manner that the passenger can easily access the information while being plied in the auto.
 
 The traffic department had issued a 10-day ultimatum and set a deadline of July 5 for the auto drivers to comply with the orders or face action.
 
 As per the orders, rickshaw drivers and owners had to display information including their full name, photographs, permit number, batch number, contact number, police helpline, woman’s cell inside their vehicle for the convenience of the commuters, especially women passengers.
 
 Nandakishor Naik, Deputy Regional Transport Officer Thane said, “The traffic department has made it mandatory for every auto driver to put up their personal details. They were told to compile the information on a white paper and get it laminated. Random checks have started across the city since early this week. Over 300 constables and 10 inspectors have been deployed for this work and so far. The initiative is a brainchild of traffic police, but we co-ordinate with them and assist them.”
 
 Traffic officials claimed that within the first three days of the inspection, a sum amounting to Rs 3,55,000 was collected from drivers who have failed to affix the information sheet. The officials also said that while the number of drivers found violating these directives are reducing, till date out of 1200 drivers/owners inspected by the authority, as many as 710 were penalized.
 
 Traffic police inspector, A.S Mangale said, “A deadline of July 5 was given to the auto drivers and owners to comply with the new traffic directives. Inspection work began from Monday. Every day, we   around 300-400 autos plying in the city to see whether they are adhering to the new traffic rules. On the first two days, it was seen that almost half of them were found violating this particular directives. A fine of Rs 500 is levied on those who fail to display the required information.”
 
