MADURAI: If all goes as planned,   will get an "original makeover" and go back in time to the age of the kings when it will be held at M Pudur village on April 16. A group of enthusiasts has drawn up plans to conduct the   in almost the same fashion as it was held during the era of the Cheras, Cholas and Pandyas. 

 There has been around 200 jallikattu events this year ever since the "stumbling block" to holding the sport was removed after a massive agitation. Now, members of Jallikattu Pathukappu Nala Sangam which is organising the event at the village near Thirukostiyur in   say they want to break the mould of jallikattu as a rustic sport. 
 
 The usually narrow vadivasal will be replaced by a big circular arena similar to a cricket field to enable more people to view the event comfortably. Sophistication will blend with traditional valour as indicated by the promo video of the event uploaded on Youtube, perhaps a first for a jallikattu event.
 
 Joint secretary of the outfit T Rajesh says that it would be very difficult to hold the event exactly the way it was during the times of the Cholas and Cheras. However, they intend to replicate at least 60 per cent of the scene. "Right from the attire of the tamers to the design of the area, everything will have an ancient touch. There will be flags and symbols of the Chera, Chola and Pandya dynasties. We are designing it like a durbar during their rule," says he. Already, the hunt is on to bring the best bulls in the state to the arena at M Pudur. The tamers will be segregated into three categories representing the three dynasties. To commemorate the massive youth movement which paved way for the event, a cup named 'Marina' will be presented to the best bull and tamer. There will be a separate gallery for the youths who led the protest too. As for the prizes, the organisers will keep up with the trend gifting away cars, bikes and even foreign trips. "We are planning to release around 550 to 600 bulls in just four hours and enter the record books. We know it is a daunting task. But we have identified the areas of delay and intend to speed up accordingly," Rajesh said. The event is backed by none other than the outfit's honorary president M Senthil Thondaman, a minister in Uva state in   who has his   in the village.
 
 
