THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A section of people who have been forced to corners in households owing to their circumstances are set to be provided independent homes under the state government's LIFE ( )  . 

 The move aims at ensuring social inclusiveness in housing schemes. A draft survey report by the LIFE Housing Mission in this regard has already enlisted 91,407 persons as beneficiaries.
 
 In addition to normal beneficiaries, the government has considered eight difficult factors like mental disability, physical disability and serious afflictions in choosing beneficiaries.
 
 Among the 91,407 beneficiaries included in the draft list are 466  , 1,706 unwed mothers and 749 HIV+ persons. The other beneficiaries are those who are mentally ill, disabled, seriously-ill, widows and those who have been deprived of livelihood following serious accidents. All of these beneficiaries will be made a part of common housing societies if they fall under the landless and homeless category.
 
 "It's a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country which specifically focuses on eight difficult factors and it will reflect a transitional phase in our society," said LSG minister K T Jaleel.
 
 "There won't be any kind of distinctions based on caste, disease or identity. Beneficiaries enlisted under 'difficult factors' will live along with other normal beneficiaries. We are also in the process of setting up teams for skill and sustenance development that would impart necessary training for the inhabitants," said LIFE Housing Mission CEO Adeela Abdulla.
 
 Trained members of the self-help group, Kudumbasree, undertook the survey to identify the beneficiaries with any of the difficult factors.
 
 "With all the stigma associated with various difficult factors, self-help groups in an area banked on factors of familiarity and friendship to get the families to open up honestly regarding members who were included in any of the difficult factors. They would have known each other for a long time and naturally the data collection carried an element of honesty with regard to certain key difficult factors," said Kudumbasree executive director S Harikishore.
 
 As regarding HIV+ beneficiaries, the mission got data from the Kerala State AIDS Control Society. A Kudumbasree official said the survey was a reality check on our society. "It's for the first time a housing scheme prepared special list for transgender persons or HIV+ patients or unwed mothers. It is going to be a model step in ensuring social inclusiveness while implementing various schemes," the official said.
 
 As per the mission, 14 flat complexes with G+3 structure and each unit measuring 500 sq ft will be constructed in all the districts. A total of 123 acres have so far been identified for the purpose.
 
