JAIPUR:The   of   have found several startling evidence against three people who were arrested from Jharkhand and West Bengal for their involvement in cyber  . The cops found   had taken bank accounts of   and tea vendors on ‘rent’ in order to park their  . The trio also began learning English to dupe people from southern states. 

 Additional commissioner of police, Praful Kumar told TOI that Sagar Das (22), Vicky Das (22) were arrested from Jamtara in Jharkhand and Satyam Roy (20) from Kolkata on Tuesday for duping several people in the city. 
 
 According to Kumar, the fraudsters promised tea vendors and daily wage labourers in Jharkhand a commission rate of 10% for letting fraudsters use their bank accounts. 
 
 “The trio would ask victims to provide their debit and credit card details, simultaneously; the fraudsters would use these details to buy mobile phones, shoes, laptops from e-commerce websites. Later, the fraudsters would sell these products on online buyer-seller websites at cheaper rates,” Kumar told TOI, adding that investigation is under way to check how many people were duped by the fraudsters. 
 
 The trio used an online app that helped them find the numbers of their targets. “There are several applications where one has to type random initial four numbers of a mobile phone. The app would generate a list of numbers and the criminals would start ringing them up,” the official said. 
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (crime branch), Vikas Pathak said that sustained interrogation has revealed Satyam Das, did his graduation in business administration and soon got into the online crime. 
 
 “For the first time a special team of crime branch was sent to the Jharkhand and West Bengal from Rajasthan to catch fraudsters who dupe people. We have sent more teams to catch other fraudsters who were involved in the crime,” Pathak said, adding that more arrests are likely to take place in next few days.
 
 The police officials who were part of the investigation and went to Jharkhand said that cyber fraud network is widespread in Jamtara district as even kids are involved in the racket. “The local police there are also aware of the problem and trying to get hold of these criminals,” the official said, adding that arrested accused would go to a secluded place away from their house and sit in a makeshift hut and operate their racket. 
 
 “They never carried out these activities from home as they were afraid of their locations being traced,” Pathak said.
 
 
