A little adventure, loads of family time. Local delights and global travel anecdotes. On World Tourism Day, Sandalwood’s travel enthusiasts share their travel tales with practical tips thrown in...
 
  
 
  
  
 That would be the one we took to Edinburgh. Ashwini, the kids and my cousins who live in the UK... we were a big group and that made it fun. We are travel buffs, so whenever the kids are off, we have to head out.
  
  I love driving and on holidays like these especially, we rent cars and drive really long distance. This time, we drove around UK and Scotland and it was about 600 miles on the road which we thoroughly enjoyed.
  
  I love jogging in the early mornings and that’s a must wherever I go. I also like sitting at one of the local delis and sipping coffee by myself and doing a recce of the place. That’s when I jot down notes of what to do with the family later.
  
  For the fist-time traveller who doesn’t have much time on hand, it’s always better to do guided tours. But if you a relaxed traveller, it’s fun to draw up your own itinerary and check out one place in detail.
  
  
 
  
  Lake Tahoe, where I went this summer with my mother.
  
 I think the timing, because it was Mother’s Day and the holiday was a gift to my doctor mommy who never takes a day off. Also, Lake Tahoe has this serene and calm vibe and it was perfect for a mother-daughter outing. We did snowboarding, skiing and all the adrenaline-pumping activities which we never do otherwise.
  
  I always check if the destination offers any adventure sports. Once I tick that off my list, then it’s on to the malls and shopping. Finally, I like to check out the spas.
  
 In the era of social media, the temptation is high to always play dress up, but please travel light. keep a back pack and one small duffel bag. It pays.
  
  
 
  
  A recent trip to Edinburgh and Scotland.
  
  The landscape and the sheer vastness. For miles together, it’s green, with no building in sight. And of course, all the majestic castles.
  
 I like checking out the public transport. I plan some of my trips only for the efficient public transport some destinations have. I dislike using taxis on my trips. I do a lot of people watching while using public transport.
  
  Never be afraid of the unknown. Too much planning spoils the fun. Go off the itinerary sometimes and explore things.
  
  
 
  
  Unbeatable, it has to be the one in Cape Town.
  
  The whole vibe of the place — it has an exotic mix of beaches and mountains. So you can chill by the beach or drive up the mountains and camp there. And the sky is the bluest I’ve ever seen. There are a lot of options when it comes to adventure sports and for the less adventurous, you can head to the many vineyards in town and spend the whole day drinking wine.
  
 To check out the local bars where they play live music. It’s the best way to mix with the locals and get to know more about the place.
  
  Never eat sea food if the destination is not located near the sea. Personal experience.
  
  
 
  
  I am a travel junkie and my Insta page is proof of it. But my most memorable holiday out of all has to be the one I took to Prague.
  
  It had a Gothic vibe to it and was yet so glorious. It had oodles of history and in every direction beauty was writ large.
  
 I have to check out the local food. Even though I’m veg, I always check out the local scene when it comes to food. In Prague, I discovered hot wine. Sometimes, I check out Indian food.
  
  I’d tell everyone to travel first. It adds to your personality. And since I also travel solo most time, I’d tell female travellers who like to go solo to always pre book. Don’t go there and be disappointed if you don’t have bookings.
  
  
 
  
 It has to be Amsterdam. Although we were there on work, I am glad I got two days to check out the place. It had a distinguished vibe from the other places in Europe.
  
  The weather. It was windy and cold and the perfect weather to wear trench coats and feel like a diva. The food was brilliant, too.
  
  I like open spaces with greenery, hence I always head to the parks. Lounging on the grass and reading a book is a must wherever I go. It’s the best way to soak in the local atmosphere.
  
  Never shy away from talking to locals. They come up with useful info that’s not on your traveller guide.
