Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh forest officials are mulling legal action against the loco pilot and other railway authorities accountable for the death of wild animals, especially tigers in train accidents.

 Officials say that the railway department had been ignoring repeated requests to slow down speed of train while passing through national parks and core areas. “It’s high time. Railway authorities need to be booked for their conduct. Necessary action is being taken,” said a forest officer wishing anonymity.
 
 Taking into account death of more than 100 wild animals on railway tracks across the state, state’s wildlife department had approached Union railway ministry for reducing speed of trains passing through   reserves and other protected areas in 2015, immediately after death of a sub-adult tiger in the same area.
 
 At that time the forest officials were more worried, since railway was planning to increase speed of trains passing through tiger habitats in Shahdol and Umaria districts.
 
 Citing cases of tiger deaths on the tracks near Ratapani area, former state’s chief wildlife warden Narendra Kumar had written to additional director general (ADG), Wildlife, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) asking him to approach railway ministry for necessary action at the earliest.
 
 But nothing happened. RTI activist Ajay Dubey had accessed copies of several communication between the state forest department and railways on the matter.
 
 In one of the letters, Narendra Kumar has quoted a similar effort by Gujarat government in 2014 after which Western Railways (WR) had agreed to reduce speed of trains near four stretches close to lion habitats, besides setting up fences and underpasses along rail tracks running through lion abode in Amreli. This initiative was taken after death of six lions within three months by trains between Dasa and Pipavav stretch in Gujarat.
 
 Gujarat forest officials had recommended speed of trains be reduced on the 30-km stretch between Dasa and Pipavav, but the railways agreed to slow down trains in four pockets where lions are more in numbers. Railway authorities had also volunteered to put up special signs in high lion-density spots to alert train drivers.
 
 Letter written by Kumar to former ADG, NTCA Rajesh Gopal (dated June 24, 2014) reads “Tigers in MP need similar attention from railway authorities. Katni-Singrauli section of the railway line passes through critical tiger habitat of Sanjay–Dubri tiger reserve in MP.
 
 Similarly, a portion of Katni- Bilaspur section passing through Umaria forest division forms an important corridor between Bandhavgarh and Kanha tiger reserves of MP. Several wild animals have been killed on this track including a male tiger in 2005 along with a hyena, and many wild boars and cheetals.”
 
 He had also enclosed a study conducted by a scientist of Indian institute of forest management (IIFM) in Umaria division revealing number of wild animals killed due to speeding trains.
 
 “On the basis of this study report, we requested general manager south eastern central railway, Bilaspur, to undertake certain immediate mitigating measures to reduce train hits in Katni-Bilaspur section, but railway authorities are not doing anything in this regard,” Narendra Kumar wrote.
 
 In 2014 NTCA had asked all the chief wildlife wardens (CWLWs) of tiger range states to take urgent measures for preventing wild animal mortality due to train hits.
 
 "Railway tracks pass through several tiger reserves and areas rich in wildlife. Time and again, there are reports of wildlife mortality including tigers, elephants, deer, wild boars, rhinos and other species due to train hits. This has been reviewed at the level of minister of state for environment and forests and urgent measures are reiterated," says an advisory issued by NTCA member-secretary on August 22, 2014.
 
 NTCA had suggested several measures. They include identification of sensitive stretches along the railway tracks based on ongoing Phase-IV monitoring of wild animals, deploying personnel for sharing information about presence of wild animals between forest department and the railways on a day-to-day basis, a monthly joint review by senior officials at division level. Nothing happened.
 
 
