Chandigarh: Even as Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa is mobilising support for his wife Charanjit Kaur for party ticket form Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat, a section of the party leaders plan to propose his name for the bypoll scheduled for October 11.

 Sitting BJP MP and former Bollywood star Vinod Khanna had passed away on April 27 necessitating the fresh election for the seat.
 
 Sources said earlier almost all the seven Congress MLAs from the area had proposed Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar’s name, but even Jakhar may now recommend Partap Singh Bajwa’s name, considering that he has won the election once in 2009.
 
 “Bajwa has to take a call if he wants to make a comeback in active politics and he has the support of local leaders, he should take the plunge. He has 2019 general election to look forward to even if he doesn’t make it this time. Instead of rooting for his wife, who is an ex-MLA, he should consider coming back to active politics himself. He may have opted for Rajya Sabha at a time when Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was still believed to be popular in the state,” said a Congress leader.
 
 However, a section of leaders from the Gurdaspur region is still keen on Jakhar contesting the election, more so because they would not want Bajwa to make a comeback in the area. “If the party decides to field a heavyweight like Jakhar then he will obviously take on the challenge as Amarinder himself did by contesting from Amritsar in 2014. The party is yet to take a formal decision,” said another leader.
 
 Bajwa was elected to Rajya Sabha in May 2016 before his party convincingly won the Punjab assembly elections in March, 2017. He was compensated for making way for Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh as the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president ahead of the assembly polls. Bajwa is known for putting brakes on BJP’s winning spree after actor-turned-politician Vinod Khanna won the seat since 1998 only to lose to Bajwa in 2009.
 
 Meanwhile, a leader close to Bajwa said that since Charanjit had sacrificed her claim during the assembly elections to make way for her brother-in-law Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, the party should ideally be considering her nomination.
 
 AAP SHORTLISTS 3 NAMES
 
 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too held a meeting of its senior leaders to discuss the possible candidate for Gurdaspur byelection. From among the seven names forwarded by the local leaders, three were picked. These names will be sent to the public affairs committee of the party in order of preference. Sources said there had been a general consensus not to name a turncoat as this might demoralize the local cadres. “Besides, it will be a local leader as has been the demand of the local cadre of the party,” said an AAP leader.
 
 
