NAGPUR:   and Congress have started to accept alliance offers from small political parties after break-up with traditional allies. BJP unconditionally accepted alliance with   (BREM) led by former minister Sulekha Kumbhare and Congress got support from RPI (Gawai), a party founded by former Kerala governor late RS Gavai.

 BJP city parliamentary board was supposed to meet on Sunday but postponed. BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle told TOI that chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari were busy in campaigning in Goa assembly elections. “Gadkari arrived in the city on Sunday and left for Goa after addressing a campaign for MLC elections,” he said.
 
 Gadkari is in charge for Goa elections. Sources from BJP said candidates are likely to be announced on February 1 or 2. “BJP leaders held meeting at Suraburdi on Saturday and shortlisted candidates for all wards. Two to three names were shortlisted for each seat. List will be tabled in board meeting where Fadnavis and Gadkari will take final decision,” sources said.
 
 BJP too seems on back foot in announcing candidates after   deciding not to continue alliance. BJP might witness rebellion if it announces candidates in advance so it’s not likely to take risk with last date of nomination i.e. on February 3.
 
 BJP is also likely to finalize alliance with RPI (Athawale). Kumbhare said BREM sought 15 seats and will get at least 10 of total 151 from BJP. “BREM contested 2012 election on its own in 27 seats. BREM supported BJP in assembly elections so was in discussion with Fadnavis, Gadkari and guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule for last two months,” she said.
 
 BREM secured one seat (Rahul Telang) in 2012 elections from North Nagpur.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress city president Vikas Thakre received a letter from RPI (Gawai) general secretary   announcing support in the NMC elections slated on February 21. RPI (Gawai) was part of Republican Front announced around 15 days ago.
 
 “We are out of a front formed by a senior leader (MLC Jogendra Kawade). He is having different agenda and different alliance in every district in upcoming elections. Therefore, we have decided to support Congress in NMC elections,” Gawai said in the letter.
 
 Already, Congress finalized alliance with Lokmanch for nine seats and talks going on with Republican Front, Republican Paksha (khoripa) and Samajwadi Party. It is likely that Congress will end up with grand alliance with smaller parties to prevent division of secular votes.
 
 Though Congress and NCP decided not to forge alliance but kept doors open for each other. The two parties may resume talks for alliance as would benefit with BJP and Sena contesting separately.
 
 Congress is likely to distribute A, B forms on February 3. Thakre is likely to meet MPCC president   on February 1 and finalize candidates.
 
 BSP was about to announce first list of candidates on Saturday but had to postpone following ruckus from party workers. BSP state president Vilas Garud was in city on Saturday and signed A, B forms.
 
