Mumbai: Leading IT sector analysts are split in their verdict on the future prospects of the   stock after Monday’s press conference by the company’s top management in the backdrop of allegations of lapses in  . 

 There is a section that is maintaining a price target on the stock as they see this as a temporary blip in the journey of a large company and are satisfied with the clarifications by Infosys chairman   and its CEO   on the allegations. On the other hand, some feel that, with the board and the founder refusing to cede any ground, the stock price may be affected. On Tuesday, the Infosys stock closed at Rs 987, up a marginal 0.4%.
 
 In principle, Infosys does not have to worry about any intervention by its founders, and any discordance with them on strategic choices and judgements need not be painstakingly resolved, said Ashish Chopra and Sagar Lele of   Securities in their report on the company on Tuesday. The company has resolved many issues since Sikka came on board two and half years ago, like concerns about revenue growth and margins, and hence the management will be “better off keeping away from any steps that may trigger questions on the locus of control”, the broking house said. It has a ‘buy’ rating on Infosys with a price target of Rs 1,250.
 
 However, Girish Pai, head of research at  , feels since neither of the sides — the professional board and the founders — is willing to back off, he sees a messy denouement that could be distracting to the management and destructive to shareholder value, if this crisis drags on for long. “Our only worry is whether the new team that (Sikka) has put together begins to get jittery and moves on to other companies if the battle drags on for too long,” Pai wrote in his report. The broking house has a ‘sell’ rating on the company with a price target of Rs 926.
 
 A leading fund manager who holds Infosys shares in funds managed by him, said that most fund managers are comfortable with Sikka and some even are questioning as to why he is bothering to spend time with the founders who control only 12% in the company. 
 
 Institutional dealers said most of the foreign fund managers are also not very concerned with the current crisis but are keeping a close watch about new developments.
 
 
