CHENNAI: AIADMK general secretary   appears to be in no hurry to take over the reins of the government if sections within the party are to be believed. The close aide of former chief minister   is treading cautiously. There is also speculation that the Narendra Modi government has been batting for   as chief minister.

 But, senior leaders continue to plead with Sasikala to take over the administration, the latest to join the chorus being Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai. AIADMK sources said the high-command expressed its “displeasure“ over Thambidurai issuing an appeal in his official letter pad as this has proved to be a source of embarrassment for the new general secretary.
 
 Hours after Thambidurai`s statement was released to the media, DMK leader M K Stalin slammed the Parliamentarian for misusing his constitutional office, alleging that the leader's appeal was nothing short of an act of sycophancy, in which the constitutional ethos had been sacrificed. “It is a shameful act," the DMK leader said, making a strong case for OPS regime to prove its majority in the floor of House. 
 
 Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu, who was in Chennai on Monday, said the MP could have avoided using his letter head. “Elected representati ves have been told not to campaign for Chinnamma becoming CM, at least for now," said a senior party leader, seeking anonymity.The party leadership is also said to be wary of the Madras high court casting doubts over the circumstances leading to Jayalalithaa's death. The impending disproportionate assets case verdict is also a cause for worry for the party leadership.
 
 AIADMK sources said the leadership was taking note of adverse reports about protests from some sections against Sasikala being made general secretary incharge. Dissenting voices have grown in districts like Cuddalore and Vellore, where some partymen have been rallying behind Jayalalithaa's niece, Deepa Jayakumar.
 
 After becoming general secretary on Saturday, Sasikala will begin her weeklong interaction with the office bearers across the state.In what is seen as an attempt to win over the dissidents, the party is doing everything possible to ensure a smooth transition.
 
