VISAKHAPATNAM:   seems to be on a   this season. Currently, the largest civilian team comprising 20 members from AP are attempting to summit the Everest. 

 Now, a nine-year-old girl has added another feather to AP's cap by successfully reaching the Everest base camp (18,200 feet or 5,464 metres) on Tuesday.
 
 Kaamya Karthikeyan, daughter of a navy officer from Visakhapatnam, is the youngest girl from AP and one of the youngest in the country to reach the Everest base camp. She trekked to the base camp to meet the Indian Navy team and wish them luck for their summit attempt. Her expedition was flagged off by AP minister for sports Kollu Ravindra on May 1 in Visakhapatnam.
 
 Kaamya, accompanied and guided by her mother Lavanya, achieved this milestone on Tuesday after enduring the rigours of extreme weather conditions and hostile terrain over the past nine days, trekking 12-14 kilometres every day that is, 8-10 hours of walk, gai ning 500-600 metres altitude. Speaking to her father over phone, the first thing she said, “I am here dad, right under Everest and one day I'm going to climb it.“ “She was all charged up inside, but from the outside, she was her all-time calm and composed self, except once or twice innocently and enthusiastically mentioning about having piping hot pakodas at that altitude,“ said Lavanya.
 
 The Nepal government has enforced an age limit of minimum 14 years to be eligible for the summit. “In a few years, I will return to the base camp again and that time I will climb all the way to the top of the world. That's a promise to myself and to the mountains. But my next climb will be Stok Kangri (6000 metres) in Leh in August followed by Mount Kilimanjaro,“ she said.
 
 At the age of 9 years, Kaamya reached the base camp but her rendezvous with the mountains began when she was in her mother's womb, as she trekked to Vaishno Devi in Jammu. At three, she trekked the Sahyadris. By the age of seven, Kaamya finished her high-altitude Himalayan treks to Har ki Dun, Roopkund, Chandrashila, Kedarkantha all ranging from 11,000 ft to 16,500 ft.
 
