NAGPUR: The   (NMC) is expecting a   of over 60% at the civic elections to be held on Tuesday. However, political parties and candidates are expecting it to be between 50 and 60%. 

 At the 2012 civic elections, the voting percentage was 52%. In 2007 it was higher at 56.29% and in 2002 it was 49.06%.
 
 After being upgraded as a municipal corporation on March 2, 1951, this is the 14th municipal election. There are total 20,93,391 voters who will exercise their franchisee at 2,783 polling booths situated in 961 locations. 
 
 Voters will decide the fate of 1,135 candidates in the fray from 151 seats in 38 wards. It is for the first time in the civic body’s history that voters will elect four members from a ward.
 
 Municipal commissioner   told TOI that the NMC was hopeful of recording over 60% voting. “We conducted a series of voter awareness programmes and also held demonstrations to make everyone aware of the four-member ward system. Therefore, we are the voting percentage would be higher than the last time,” he said.
 
 For the first time, NMC staffers were distributing voter slips at doorsteps. So far, the candidates themselves used to distribute voter slips in their respective constituencies.
 
 Hardikar said the slips have reached over 60% voters. “There are various methods for the voters to know their polling booths (see box). We have spread awareness about everything,” he said.
 
 As per directives of the SEC, the NMC started distribution of voter slips from last Friday. The slip highlights voters’ name, serial number in voters list, booth number and location and picture.
 
 A senior NMC official told TOI that slips could not be distributed to all voters due to staff crunch. “Health department officials and staffers managed to reach some houses as many were difficult to locate. The staffers put in a lot of efforts,” he said.
 
 The district administration and NMC did not take serious efforts to increasing the electoral roll before the election dates were announced. It would have helped in having a higher voter turnout.
 
 A holiday has been declared on Tuesday. Many establishments have given time off to their employees to cast their votes. This could result in more number of people coming to vote.
 
 Around 14,000-15,000 polling staff was given postal ballots. Many of them have cast votes and submitted at respective their zones.
 
 The polling will begin at 7.30am and conclude at 5.30pm. “All those who enter the polling booth premises before 5.30pm will be given a coupon that will have to be handed over to the last person in the line. This is to ensure no one is allowed to vote after 5.30pm,” said an NMC official.
 
