RANCHI: The   cabinet on Tuesday approved   to set up 565   across 170 locations in the state capital. The Rs 50-crore project is aimed at monitoring law and order and facilitating  . 

 Briefing media persons after the meeting, police spokesperson RK Mallick said the installation process is expected to be completed by July. "Security cameras, set up by individual businessmen and residents, will be gradually brought under the surveillance network that will be developed by BSNL," Mallick said. 
 
 Addressing its first meeting this year, the Das   also nominated Jharkhand Mahila Swavalambi Poultry Sahakari Sangh Limited (MSPSSL) as the supplier of eggs for mid-day meals in government schools. MSPSSL, which comprises 600 women self-help groups (SHG), will supply 9.3 crore eggs annually to 15% of the state's 45 lakh school children. 
 
 Briefing media persons about the same, state agriculture and animal husbandry minister Randhir Kumar Singh said Rs 50 crore has been allocated to strengthen the existing broiler firms. "The MSPSSL will supply eggs to 15% of the school children in the first few months till its production increases," Singh said. 
 
 In other developments, the cabinet also gave its approval to the establishment of a board for development of small scale and cottage industries. State industries secretary Sunil Kumar Burnwal said the new board will work to increase the production of lack, tusser silk, handloom and minor forest produce to help yield better dividends. 
 
 The cabinet approved the new rainwater harvesting management regulations and approved Rs 52.62 crore for solid waste management plant in Khunti. The state food and civil supplies department roped in NCDX E marketing limited for stock monitoring and conducting audits in its godowns. 
 
 Meanwhile, the dearness allowance for retired state government employees was increased by 7% to 132%. Rs 1.99 crore was allocated for implementation of goods and services tax. 
 
 Hindalco was awarded the mining lease for bauxite in Gumla's Amptipani, Chirudih and Bahagara villages for 50 years. Sources in the cabinet secretariat claimed that cabinet minister Saryu Roy objected to one of the proposals made by the mining and geology department and left the meeting midway. Roy refused to comment on the issue.
 
 
