HYDERABAD: Head post offices are getting ready to accept  . Officials are busy setting up computers, token counters, and waiting halls for applicants at head post offices in Hanmakonda in   urban district, and Mahbubnagar town. Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) will be opened at these head post offices. 

 Officials of the Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad, and the  , are supervising the arrangements. A team of officials has already visited the two head post offices. "The ministry of external affairs (MEA) selected two HPOs in Telangana to set up PSKs. We are making all the arrangements," director ( ), Telangana Postal Circle, V Upender, told TOI. 
 
 He said two senior postal employees will be deployed at the post office PSK. One of them will verify the passpart applications and forward them to another official to be called 'passport granting officer' (PGO). The PGO will check the documents and, if they are in order, will recommend to the RPO to grant passport to the applicants.
 
 Regarding the procedure for applying for passport, postmaster-general, Hyderabad region, Col M Eleesha, said the applicants should be from the two districts concerned. They should fill the applications online and get appointment. The applicant first should take the token at the HPO and visit the counter on the day of appointment and show the documents. Then the verification officer will check the application and forward it to the PGO for grant of passport. 
 
 However, the passport will be printed only after receipt of the police verification report. "Once the passport is printed, it will be delivered to the applicant by speed post. 
 
 "Initially, we will start passport services through a 'camp'. After one month, the process of accepting the applications will begin. This is to create awareness among people about the availability of passport services at the select head post offices.
 
 However, the postal authorities have not yet decided on collection of fee from the applicants. 
 
 The passport services will start by March-end. Full-fledged services will be provided within six months.
 
 
