Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that family planning operations of most primitive and endangered Baiga tribe would not be done without the permission of district collector. Chouhan opened a 3-day   at Balaghat.

 The Baiga tribe, inhibiting Baihar tehsil of Balaghat district, is facing extinction because of their dependence on primitive farm practices and uncertainty of food supply. The total population of the tribe is about 17,500 spread over 190 villages in Baihar. Now, the state government has decided to focus on welfare schemes for tribe and organise sports events like a gala event.
 
 “This will preserve tradition and culture of Baigas, where tribals will get know-how of modern agriculture and education system. The government will also set up a museum in Balaghat district for the community,” said Chouhan. 
 
 During the 3-day event, traditional sports, agriculture seminars and health camps would also be organised. Tribal members from Balaghat, Mandla, Dindori, Umaria, Anuppur, Seoni, Shahdol, Rajnandgaon (Chhattisgarh) and Nagaland (North East state) are participating in sports events. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh has for the first time recognised habitat rights of villages inhabited by Baigas and announced free hold land to the families. Chouhan said, “MP will be the first to pass an Act to ensure forest land rights to tribal community members.”
 
 As per the Act, tribals will be free to access all their ancestral rights over land and forests. The government has assured them that district administration will not be able to transfer any land for non-community uses without consent.
 
 Chouhan announced to open a 100-bed hospital in Baihar and masters class in science stream from next academic session. To do away with potable water crisis, Chouhan announced a water supply scheme for Baihar and approved Rs21.154 lakh for Malajkhand municipality.
 
 In all, Rs 28 crore was distributed as financial assistance to beneficiaries during Antyodaya Mela, officials say.
 
 
