KOLKATA:   Naskar and her husband were all smiles on Wednesday, having got back their   boy after eight hours. On the other hand, Chinmayee Bej and her husband Prasanta, accused of stealing the baby from the hospital, are in police custody, facing charges of human trafficking and criminal conspiracy that can land them behind bars for the rest of their lives. However, the Bejs may be more sinned against than sinning in this tale of the two families who live in similar hutments 20 houses apart in Georgebagan slum at Bagmari in north Kolkata.

 According to neighbours and police, Chinmayee, mother of an eight-year-old girl, had been faking pregnancy since she had a miscarriage three months ago. She was possibly forced to take the path of crime to escape scorn from her in-laws because she did not have a boy like her sister-in-law. 
 
 The Naskars, married for around one and a half years, said they felt like life had stopped when they found their child missing. 
 
 “I am happy to have got him back. When he was brought back, I could instantly identify him. I had taken a few photographs of him on my mobile and rechecked to ensure it was my child. This is the happiest day of my life,” said Saraswati from the hospital bed on Wednesday.
 
 She added that she had not slept since Tuesday night and was checking up on her son kept at the SNCU ward on the same floor every hour. “I am worried. I can’t help keep tabs on him.” 
 
 On being asked, if she knew Bej, Saraswati answered with a simple “no”. 
 
 Saraswati’s father-in-law Rabi, a security guard at a local civic body-run park, however, said they knew Bej. But since his daughter-in-law was new to the neighbourhood and had stayed at her parents’ house for a number of days before the delivery, she did not know her. 
 
 “We knew the woman and several others in our neighbourhood knew she was pregnant. The way to her house is by our hut. But we have never interacted,” said Rabi, who had first identified the boy in Bej’s arms as his grandson on Tuesday night.
 
 According to neighbours, Chinmayee had been living in the area with her husband, mother-in-law and the family of her brother-in-law. Her daughter studies in Class III at a government-run school on   Street. Neighbours said she used to sell ayurvedic medicines and had ready access to different households in the area. They added that although the family lived under the same roof, Chinmayee had differences with her in-laws, allegedly over her inability to bear a boy. 
 
 “There were frequent tiffs within the family, accusing the woman of not being able to bear a boy. Last year, she said she was pregnant and even told us that she was confident that it was a boy. For the last three months, however, we had not seen her much as she said she had been advised by doctors to rest,” said one of Bej’s neighbours.
 
 Police said Chinmayee has confessed that she had a miscarriage around three months ago and had been faking the pregnancy since then.
 
 After her arrest, locals vandalised her house and drove her in-laws out of the neighbourhood. The Bej’s daughter is now staying with her grandmother, one of the neighbours said.
 
 Sociologist Tumpa Mukherjee said: “Women have internalized patriarchal values for centuries. In spite of awareness campaigns, like  , women are still involved in practising patriarchal attitudes. Producing a male child for continuation of lineage is one such patriarchal action. Women in metros still face numerous external and internal societal pressure to bear male children. They are victims of violence. From victims, they become perpetrators of crime.”
 
 The reaction of Saraswati and her family proves the fact.
 
  “Everyone in my family wanted a boy too. We had even fixed his name before he was born.”
 
 
