NAGPUR: BJP maintained its winning trend in the last phase of   in the state by winning seven out of 11 posts of council presidents and having a clear majority in four councils. However, the party’s performance in Nagpur district was unsatisfactory as other parties won in four out of nine towns despite chief minister Devendra Fadnavis campaigning extensively there. The biggest shocker was abysmal performance of the party in Kamptee, which is guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule’s hometown.

 In terms of seats, BJP has won 104 out of total 244 in the two districts increasing its tally from 58. Congress has won 57 seats, down from 73 in 2011. NCP has won 26 seats against 35 in the outgoing bodies.
 
 Shiv Sena’s tally has also come down to 14 from 26 last time. Other parties including local alliances have won 43 seats this time.
 
 In Nagpur district, BJP has wrested Ramtek council from its state ally —   — giving a jolt to ex-MLA Ashish Jaiswal. In Kalmeshwar, BJP has bagged the council president’s post but failed to retain power. Now, Congress and NCP combine will rule the council. Congress has been able to retain Mohpa, while BJP has retained Saoner. In Khapa, BJP has unseated Congress. Nagar Vikas Aghadi, a local outfit headed by Ramesh Gupta, has retained power in Narkhed along with the NCP.
 
 One of the upsets for the BJP has been in Katol where Vidarbha Maza, a recently launched outfit, has unseated it. Vidarbha Maza will rule the council. It has also won the president’s post. The defeat is a jolt both for sitting MLA Ashish Deshmukh of BJP and his predecessor Anil Deshmukh of the NCP.
 
 BJP has also suffered a jolt in Kamptee where Congress has wrested the council winning both the president’s post as well as forming government. Of the 32 seats, BJP and its ally Bahujan Republican Ekta Manch (BREM) has been able to win only 10.
 
 The story in Umred is the reverse. BJP has swept the council winning 19 out of 25 seats. It has won the council president’s post too dealing a major blow to district Congress president Rajendra Mulak.
 
 NCP stalwart Praful Patel has once again suffered a major jolt as BJP has won the council president’s posts in both Gondia and Tiroda. BJP will retain government in Gondia while the NCP has managed to keep Tiroda with it.
 
 Commenting on his party’s performance, Mulak said that Congress would rule three councils. “BJP was talking about a clean sweep in the district. We along with local alliances have stopped it from becoming a reality,” he added.
 
 
