JAIPUR : The   ( ) has planned to shelve the ambitious   course project, proposed to be developed on 592 bigah land near   village on   highway. 

 Seeing the present real-estate market situation, the JDA’s finance wing has refused to provide any relaxation to lure developers for the project. The finance wing stressed as the real estate market is facing a slump and no private player is showing interest to develop the project on public-private partnership (PPP) mode, tenders should not be invited till the situation improves.
 
 With this, Rs 1500 projects hits a roadblock. JDA official sources informed , in a meeting held last week at JDA , many officials have opined to invite the tenders , however, finance wing has mentioned it is not feasible. “ The project is capital intensive and developers are apprehensive to invest, we have decided not to invite tenders again and again as it causes monetary loss. Earlier , the tenders for this project have been invited twice.” said official 
 
 The project includes a 18-holes golf course of international standards, residential scheme, exhibition centre, a convention centre and a hotel. An official informed, “After decreasing the size of the golf course, the JDA had decided to provide more land to the developer that would help earn him more revenue. However, this attempt too failed.” added official 
 
 Earlier, the JDA had decided to lease out the new golf course for 60 years. PDCOR, the consultant which prepared the detailed project report (DPR) of the golf project on PPP , has mentioned this point.
 
 An official said that the state government was expecting to earn Rs 10 crore every month from the project. “When JDA invited tenders for the second time, the one-time instalment (down-payment) which was nearly Rs 250 crore was reduced by Rs 100 crore. Also, monthly rental was reduced to Rs 7.5 crore from Rs 12.5 crore. But, even after this developers did not participate” said an official.
 
 In order to provide relief to the developer, the JDA also decided to forgo three-star hotel in the project. “As per the previous clause, the developer had to construct a four-star hotel and a three-star hotel. After that it was decided that the three-star hotel land could be utilized for residential purpose” added official.
 
