Panaji:   levels at the five dams in the state are nearing full capacity, which has led the water resources department (WRD) to release water from the dams as a precautionary measure.

 Engineers from WRD have confirmed that after the week-long spell of heavy rainfall in Goa, the department will be releasing about two to five cumecs of water (unit to measure rate of water flow, as cubic metre per second) in the coming weeks at Anjunem, which has water-release gates.
 
 “It is a precautionary move at the Anjunem dam. There are still three metres left for the   to reach its safety mark. The water will be released during the low tide, and levels at the Kashti and Valvanti rivers are set to rise. We have already directed villagers in the nearby areas to avoid going to the riverside to wash clothes or for any other purpose for the next few days. There is no threat of flooding right now,” the officials said.
 
 The dam’s reservoirs are mainly rain fed through and reach full capacity during monsoons, they said.
 
 The situation is similar in the other dams in Goa as well but they have a natural discharge system for the excess water.
 
 “Apart from Anjunem, other dams are not controlled by gates, but excess rain water received in the catchment area of the dam is automatically discharged through weirs (an enclosure), which are constructed and designed for such events,” an engineer from the WRD said.
 
 The officials will be maintaining the reservoirs near their full capacity till the end of September and will then release water for irrigation. The water will again be released in November following which levels will recede.
 
 The Dam Safety Panel had suggested automation of the water-release gates at Anjunem Dam, which is currently in the planning stage, and has also suggested replacing the apron which is covering the bottom of a reservoir adjacent to the dam in order to avoid water seepage beneath the structure.
 
 INFOGRAPHIC
 
 WATER-WAYS
 
 Goa has seven water-treatment facilities; Selaulim, Opa, Assanora, Chandel, Canacona, Dabose and Sanquelim
 
 Of total drinking water supplied, 260MLD (million litres per day) is consumed by Sanguem, Quepem, Salcete and Mormugaoalone
 
 At Anjunem Dam, the safety panel suggested automation of water-release gates and replacement of apron covering key structure
 
 TABLE SENT TO DESIGN TEAM
 
 
