In 2015, France had announced plans to attract more   to its institutes. Two years down the line, it seems all set to surpass its target of drawing 10,000 Indian students by 2020. The figure has already touched 7,000, claim industry experts.

 During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the largest country in the European Union in 2015, the French government has said, “Last year more than 4,000 Indian students chose to study in France. We want these numbers to grow further. Our aim is to welcome 10,000 students to France by 2020.“
 
 The government has backed its commitment with two major steps. Firstly, the work visa granted those who finish their education there was made valid for two years, instead of one. In addition, there are chances to extend it even further. Secondly, the number of scholarships available have also gone up.
 
 IN 2016, 120 Indian students got Charpak Master's Scholarship, while 370 got secured other scholarships.
 
 An architecture student from Delhi Nitika Srivastava says, “I have done my Bachelors here in India but with France being so welcoming of Indians, I'm planning to pursue my Masters from there. The country has a rich architecture history and there is so much to learn there.“
 
 Another student, Tarun Gupta, who is planning to do his Masters in Business Management, also has France in his list. “France is a huge economy.With more than 50 companies headquartered there it is a global management hub. There are so many scholarships being given which will help me in pursuing my higher education.“
 
  in IDP Gagandeep said, “During Modi's visit to France, the two countries agreed on allowing Indian students to a stay on in France two years. Earlier, the students could only stay for a year after completion of the course.“
 
 In the scheme mention above where   will be allowed two years' special residence permit, while 250 French students would be permit ted every year a stay of two years in India so that they can join   operating in India.
 
 
 
 
 As a student you are eligible to work for 20 hours a week, which is 60% of the total working hours in France. Once you graduate with a degree, you can either apply for the job search visa or work permit depending upon your present status. Usually mandatory internships feature of Grandes Écoles in France help you find your first job.
 
 Once you receive a job offer in France, you should apply for the work permit. Being an Indian by origin, you are eligible to work up to two years after completion of your program. Post this period, it would be renewed depending upon various conditions. Thousands of students and professionals migrate to foreign shores every year in search of better opportunities. In this column, we bring to you the latest happenings and trends in the field of international education and employment.
 
