PANAJI: It will have you rub your eyes in disbelief, but it is true.   at Kharwada, Amona, has a single teacher attending to 41 students belonging to Classes I to IV at a time. Around 15km away, Government Primary School, at Mencurem, also has a lone teacher simultaneously instructing 37 students, from four different classes.

 According to the directorate of education’s records, there are 347 government primary schools being run by a single teacher. And, unlike the general belief, not all these schools have a single teacher operating them, because they have a low student enrolment.
 
 These problems have forced the   to make newly recruited teachers to sign a bond, where they pledge to dedicate their first 15 years of service to rural schools. 
 
 “Around 800 teachers have been appointed recently and they have been made to sign the bond,” said director of education  .
 
  The director may not admit it, but there are plenty of requests by teachers preferring transfers to urban schools. 
 
 But Bhat said that transfers have also been curtailed recently and low enrolment schools are being amalgamated each year to bring down the problem of single teacher schools.
 
 “As per state government norms, only one teacher is to be appointed for every 24 students. But all these single-teacher schools have been allotted contractual teachers to help in recent years,” said Bhat.
 
 State government norms also do not allow allotment of non-teaching staff like clerks to government primary schools. 
 
 Needless to say, these schools are also without head teacher, forcing the lone teacher to handle even from correspondence work.
 
 Sattari taluka has the highest number of single teacher schools at 68, followed by Ponda, which has 55 such government primary schools. Bicholim at 36, Dharbandora at 41, Quepem at 29, Sanguem at 28 and Canacona at 27 too have their fare share of single teacher institutes. The concentration of such schools is high in some areas like Poinguinim, which have eight within a span of a few kilometers.
 
 The problem is rooted in a poor perception of government primary schools, which is causing parents to shun them in favour of private school. Attempts are being made in the recent years to change this image of government institutions by upgrading their infrastructure.
 
 Goa has been long grappling with the problem of low enrolment in government schools, with the number of state-run primary schools down to just 730 in 2015-16 from close to a 1,000 such schools that were operational a decade ago.
 
