NEW DELHI: Fakes of new currency notes are in the market, but this time they haven’t come from across the border. A   proficient in designing software printed them amidst the cash frenzy post demonetisation.

 The man designed   notes with face value of Rs 6.5 lakh using software like Coreldraw, Pagemaker and Photoshop. He used high quality scanners to scan the original note and then made their replicas by printing it on both sides of an A4 size paper. The notes were then cut out in a makeshift lab.
 
 The currency was traded with unsuspecting vendors at weekly markets, liquor shops and roadside sellers. The fake notes would mostly be concealed amidst a stack of real ones. DCP (southwest) Surendra Kumar said that Rs 6.1 lakh worth of fake notes in denominations of 2,000 and 500 have been seized. The accused have been identified as Ashish Keju (23) from Uttam Nagar and Krishan Bhardwaj from Najafgarh (25).
 
 After several incidents of circulation of fake notes came to the notice of the police after demonetisation, a special team led by ACP Rajender Singh and inspector Raj Kumar were asked to track down the culprits.
 
 “Informers were asked to get intelligence, the modus operandi was analysed and on-the-ground verification was done with the help of technical surveillance. On Monday, head constable Pratap received a tip-off about the accused,” the DCP said. “Pratap was sent as a decoy customer trying to buy new currency near Kiran Garden, Bindapur. A deal was struck for a Rs 2,000 note in lieu of Rs 4,000 in denomination of 500. The suspects were arrested subsequently. An FIR for circulating fake currency has been registered,” he added.
 
 Ashish was a mobile phone technician who wanted to switch to politics and build a bungalow at his hometown in Agra. Bhardwaj is an expert in computers and taught it to children at a private school. He used to own a printing press, but had to shut it down due to losses. He also confessed to having worked at a mobile company, BPO and an automobile firm.
 
 The duo met each other around two years ago through a common friend. They decided to use their knowledge of computers and desktop publishing in printing fake notes. They started with printing Rs 100 notes and successfully circulated it in markets.
 
 After November 8, they started printing new currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000. Probe is on to ascertain their links and the identity of their associates.
 
 
