AJMER:   ( ) on Tuesday staged an interactive session on ‘ease of doing business’ between   (SSI) and government of   but SSI feels that they are not at all at ease with the process of government and will probably have to shut their industries if things don’t get better.

 To facilitate state government policies and make business easy, CII took the initiative in   to build bridge between government departments and   industries. The district has leading small scale industries and the economy of Ajmer mostly depends on this sector. CII is trying to collect feedback from industries to prepare a blue print for implementing the process of doing business.
 
 Talking on the occasion, Ajitabh Sharma, commissioner of industries, government of Rajasthan, said that the government has changed the track and now industries will evaluate the policies and plans which government wanted to implement. “Government claims development but going by ground reality some improvements are required,” said Sharma. 
 
 Different officials of Rajasthan government displayed various policies and schemes for small scale industries and also emphasised on online procedure. They said that government is taking more steps to bring facilities to industries so that they can grow and help in the production of the state.
 
 But secretary of Ajmer Zila Laghu Udhyog Sangh while talking to media said that they are not happy with implementation of government schemes. “First of all industrialists are not getting land while RICHO is selling lands in industrial area as they are commercial unit,” said Rajesh Sharma, secretary, Zila Sangh.
 
 Industrialists also rubbished the online system for industries with Surender Lodha, former president of Zila Sangh, calling online system a myth. “There is a Sampark portal but they are not solving problems and only giving useless replies,” added Lodha. He said that industrialists have to keep making round of the pollution, electricity and other departments.
 
 The main problem that small scale industries are facing is that of no skilled labour. “The problem is villagers do not want to work in industries as they are engaged in MGNERGA and therefore when we are ready to pay and train them as skilled labour, no one turns up,” said Lodha. He also alleged that GST will increase their problems as they will have to fill dozens of forms online which will hinder growth of small scale industries.
 
 
