Nagpur: Minister of youth affairs and sports Vijay Goel has assured that efforts are being taken to nurture   in the country. Currently, female wrestlers make up only 12% of those training under various schemes of Sports Authority of India (SAI).

 On the opening day of Lok Sabha budget extended session, BJP MP from Wardha Ramdas Tadas raised a question on promoting wrestling and status of ‘akhadas’ in the country. Tadas raised the issue a day after TOI highlighted how women wrestlers of Wardha, Deoli, Hinganghat and nearby villages are doing well even without good facilities.
 
 Pointing out that the country’s women wrestlers performed better in Olympics last year, Tadas further asked if the government proposes to increase budgetary spending to promote wrestling among women.
 
 In his reply, Goel stated that presently 41 akhadas have been adopted by SAI, where 664 boys and 60 girls are being trained. The minister informed that a total of 1,228 wrestlers are being trained at 72 SAI centres across the country. While the number of male wrestlers is 1,039, the number of females is extremely low at 135. Out of them, 49 females are residents of the centres. 
 
 Tadas also sought to know whether government has made separate budgetary allocations for women pursuing wrestling. The minister said that “women wrestlers are treated at par and provided with similar facilities.” He added that the budgetary allocation for wrestling is not segregated between men and women.
 
 In last three years, SAI has spent around Rs40 crore on wrestling. The budget for the current financial year is Rs15.40 crore. “The budget allocation for wrestling is being suitably increased every year,” the minister said.
 
 Under its akhada scheme, SAI recently adopted Pune-based Jog Maharaj Vyayamshala, where 19 female wrestlers are training. “Wrestling is a traditional Indian sport and we are taking efforts to admit more female wrestlers under SAI schemes. Indian women have enormous potential in the discipline of wrestling,” Goel stated.
 
 Tadas has appealed to the minister to provide a central government approved akhada in Vidarbha region. A renowned former wrestler, Tadas had personally trained his daughter Sunita, who is now training young girls of Wardha and nearby villages in wrestling. In the last eight years, over 50 women have been trained and gone on to participate in state and national events.
 
 
