GURUGRAM: A woman member of a BJP study group has accused party functionary and former Delhi MLA   of sedating and raping her in a Gurgaon motel on February 10. 

 An FIR was registered against the former Saket   at the women’s police station. Police said the survivor approached DCP (south) Ashok Bakshi on Tuesday and claimed she had accompanied Jolly to the motel Apno Ghar, just ahead of   toll plaza on NH-8, for a party meeting.
 
 Last Saturday, Jolly had filed a complaint at Kherki Daula police station against the woman and her husband, accusing them of extorting him.. A senior officer said according to that complaint, the woman has extorted Rs 15 lakh from Jolly and one of his friends, based on which an FIR was registered against them under sections 384 (extortion) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). 
 
 The woman wrote in her complaint, “I’m member of a BJP study group and have known Jolly for three years. There was a meeting in a motel on February 10, and he offered me a lift. Trusting him as a senior leader, I went along,” wrote the woman in her complaint. 
 
 The complaint continues, “We reached the motel around 1.30pm, sat in the lobby for a while. He then took me to a room where he ordered tomato soup. After taking a few sips of the soup, I started feeling giddy and fell unconscious. When I woke up, I was lying on bed, naked and alone. I rushed to the bathroom, washed and dressed up. I meet Jolly in the motel lobby at around 3.30pm and told him what he had done was very bad, and asked him to take me home. I took a lift in his car, but got down midway at the Adchini traffic signal near Mehrauli, and reached home in Delhi on an auto. Later, I went to confront him, but he threatened me and turned me away. That’s when I confessed to my husband, who approached police.”
 
 As per the complaint, an FIR was registered against Jolly under sections 376 ( ), 328 (poisoning), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.“An FIR has been registered and we’re verifying facts. Action will be taken as per law,” police commissioner   told TOI.
 
 In his complaint, Jolly alleged the woman had asked for money saying her husband was ill, adding he gave her Rs 20,000 immediately, and Rs 15 lakh more later. But when demand for money didn’t stop, he refused, at which she threatened him with a false case.
 
 After Jolly’s complaint, the woman’s husband said they too had lodged a complaint with Kherki Daula police station but cops had ignored it. Police had nothing to say about the claims of the woman’s husband.
 
 “It’s a case of blackmail,” Jolly said. “The woman lodged a counter FIR after five days to protect herself as he’d already approached cops against them on February 17. I’ve credible evidence against her, which I have submitted to Gurgaon police. She is trying to frame me to damage my image and ruin my political career of 39 years. All allegations are baseless and I’m ready to face any probe.” 
 
 The woman was unavailable for comment.
 
 
