BENGALURU: Having hogged headlines for the wrong reasons in the past,   is all set to witness its first-ever   in the first week of August. Residents living in the vicinity and environmentalists campaigning to rejuvenate the waterbody will conduct the event. 

 The aim is to bring people closer to the lake and involve them in its revival. This will also help in building a better monitoring system. A   are among the highlights of the festival.
 
 Seema Sharma, a lake activist and resident of Bellandur, said the festival will be held on August 5. “Citizens can interact with representatives of civic agencies involved in the rejuvenation.   (BDA), which is the lake’s custodian, will update the public on the activities taken up to breathe new life into the lake. Equipment being used for the revival will also be on display by the lakeside,” Sharma said.
 
 
 
 
 BDA officials said they have deployed state-of-the-art machines to clean the lake. “So far, 70% of the deweeding work is over. The next big task to take up is desilting as the waterbody continues to receive more than half of the city’s sewage. This is why the lake is still frothing on the Bellandur bridge side. For this, Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) must put in place sewage treatment plants. Since STP installation is expected to take time, we are planning to set up aerators to increase the oxygen levels in the waterbody. There are plans of controlling foaming through bioculture,” an official added.
 
 Officials are working with Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority to develop wetlands at inlet points to cleanse the sewage entering the lake, as a temporary measure.
 
 
 
 
 Some citizen volunteers who recently visited the lake said they could see some signs of improvement. “One can see much more water now, which wasn’t the case earlier because of the weeds. Deweeding is being conducted at a smooth pace. But civic agencies should ensure water hyacinth is cleared soon. Also, illegal dumping of garbage has been going on due to lack of monitoring. Though the civic agency promised constant CCTV surveillance, only two cameras are in place till date. Lack of streetlights makes it easy for trucks to dump waste into the lake during night hours,” said one of the volunteers.
 
 Purushottam K, another resident of Bellandur, said BBMP should deploy marshals for lake security on the lines of waste processing units and dumping yards. 
 
 
