NAGPUR: Bachelor of Technology (mechanical) student Gurucharan Reddy of   emerged the probable topper from Nagpur in the   (CAT) 2016, the results of which were declared on Monday.

 Reddy scored 99.59 percentile. Ananya Singh is likely the topper among girls with 99.47 percentile.
 
 Though the exam conducting authorities haven’t released city-specific data, the rankings are based on data compiled by management trainers.
 
 “Overall, the percentile has gone done. Last year, the topper scored 99.77. I would attribute this to the high difficulty level of data interpretation and logical reasoning (DILR) section. Quantitative aptitude (QA) was moderate while verbal ability and reading comprehension (VARC) was difficult,” said Mehul Jhunjunwala of TIME, where all the four probable toppers studied.
 
 Jhunjunwala said, “IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore have already shortlisted candidates for the second stage, which is pretty fast.”
 
 He said these now students must give their best to convert group discussion and personal interview calls into selection. 
 
 “They would be competing with the country’s who’s who. It won’t be all that easy,” he added.
 
 Talking about his achievement, Reddy said, “I didn’t actually expect such high ranking. I was surprised. I wasn’t confident about verbal ability and reading comprehension. Perhaps it was luck factor. I am aiming for IIM-Kolkata as its finance branch is good.”
 
 Other likely toppers from the city are Utkarsh Rathi (98.64), Sanket Dabhade (98.14) and Sandip Choudhary (98.13). 
 
 Rathi, who is known for his oratory skills, had won TOI debate ‘Speak For India’ in October 2016.
 
 Ananya said she too was surprised. She attributed her success to calm and supportive atmosphere at home. “CAT is a mind game. You have to be very focused on the D-Day. Topics covered are very basic so you need to brush up your current affairs and appear for mock drills. I want to be a good manager. I also want to be epitome of women empowerment and reach out to rural folk. I am aiming for IIM-Kolkata and   Delhi. I did my BTech from Manapal, Karnataka.”
 
 Other top performers from the city are Utkarsh Rathi (98.64), Sanket Dabhade (98.14) and Sandip Choudhary (98.13). Rathi, who is known for his oratory skills, had won TOI debate ‘Speak For India’ in October 2016.
 
 
