LUCKNOW: The fifth round of the battle for UP's crown will be fought on Monday in 51 assembly constituencies of 11 districts located in Awadh, Terai belt and East UP where election discourse is dominated by  , royalty and local satraps.

 Besides Muslims, Brahmins and Thakurs, substantial number of non-Yadav backward classes and non-Jatav dalits will play a crucial role in this highly backward, but agriculturally rich region. Pollsters do not rule out possibility of communal polarization following series of caustic remarks by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Some, however, believe, more than 3.07 lakh first time voters (18-19 years) in these 51 constituencies can also tilt the balance at some places by breaking caste and communal barriers.
 
 In 2012, SP dominated by winning 36, out of 51 seats, Congress won 5, BJP 5, BSP 3 and Peace Party 2. BJP-Apna Dal alliance, however, swept in 2014 and was ahead in 44 assembly segments, SP and Congress were ahead in four each and BSP one. This time, dynamics can change due to SP-Congress alliance.
 
 BJP is contesting in 50 constituencies and its ally Apna Dal on one seat, BSP in all the 51, SP in 43 and Congress at 14 places. Most constituencies are witnessing triangular contest between SP-Congress, BJP-Apna Dal and BSP. However, friendly fights between SP and Congress at seven constituencies, including Gandhi bastion Amethi, have also left voters puzzled.
 
 Besides Amethi, politcally important constituencies which will go to poll include Sultanpur, Bahraich, Gonda, Itwa and Akbarpur. In Ayodhya, for the first time after independence any major political party has fielded a Muslim candidate. BSP’s Bazmi Siddiqui is the BSP candidate here.
 
 The phase will decide fate of eight ministers in Akhilesh Yadav government, Speaker in the outgoing assembly Mata Prasad Pandey (Itwa), BSP state president Ram Achal Rajbhar (Akbarpur) and Peace Party president Muhammad Ayub (Khalilabad).
 
 Bahubalis and their kin in fray include Abhay Singh (SP) and Khaboo Tiwari (BJP) from Gosainganj, Anand Sen Yadav (SP) and   (BSP) from Bikapur, Suraj Singh (SP) and Prateek Bhushan (BJP) from Gonda Sadar,   Tripathi (BSP) Menhdawal, Yashbhadra Singh (NISHAD) from Issauli, Mehboob Alam (Lok Dal) from Tulsipur, Rupesh Kumar (independent) from Gonda, Anup Sanda (SP) from Sultanpur and Ajay Pratap Singh (NISHAD) from Katehari.
 
 Candidates hailing from erstwhile royal families include Garima Sinh (BJP) and Amita Sinh (Congress) in Amethi, Mayankeshwar Sharan Singh (BJP) in Tiloi and Aeshwarya Raj Singh (RLD) from Basti Sadar and Alakshendra Kant Singh (BJP) from Bhinga.
 
 There are at least 13 constituencies where contestants include sitting or ex MLAs who have represented the seat three of more times in the past.
 
