NEW DELHI:   was reluctant to engage with ally  's suggestion for a post-poll "secular" alliance, but said such a suggestion would be addressed only if no party was in a position to form a government. 

 "We have no doubts about the victory of the SP-Congress alliance in UP. But if such a situation arises where there is a deadlock in the state and no party is able to form the government, then nature and politics, we all know, abhors a vacuum. And nobody in the state wants another election. But whatever alliance is possible will be explored if such a situation arises," AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said. 
 
 The response came in response to a volley of questions in the context of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister's comments on Thursday. Congress refused to respond to a query if it was ready to suggest a 'grand alliance' with   supremo   as the chief minister.
 
 Earlier in the day, Congress vice-president   debunked exit polls predicting a win for BJP in UP. Talking to reporters in Parliament he said, "Our alliance is winning. We saw such exit polls in Bihar too. We will talk tomorrow."
 
 Akhilesh's comment extending a hand of friendship to arch rival BSP created a flutter as the two parties are seen as implacably opposed to each other to even think of a pact. Their irreconcilable differences and overlapping power ambitions blocked the formation of a Bihar-like pre-poll 'grand alliance', leading to SP tying up with Congress to make UP a three-cornered fight. But the re-entry of BJP as a strong player in state politics seems to have muddied the waters. It would be interesting to see how the regional rivals behave if BJP falls short of a majority and results throw up an equation where SP, BSP and Congress jointly possess the numbers to form the government. 
 
 Many believe that Akhilesh's overture to BSP is rooted in the belief that Mayawati will finish a distant third in the state polls, which will soften the aggressive politician and force her to make a choice to back the SP leader for CM. 
 
 
