AHMEDABAD: A disabled  , two doctors, a spiritual preacher and a veteran music director are among the eight Gujaratis to figure in the list of   declared by the government on the eve of Republic Day. 

 While spiritual guru Ratna Sundar Maharaj would be conferred Padma Bhushan, six others including highway emergency services pioneer Dr Subroto Das, Dr Devendra Patel, music director Purushottam Upadhyay, academician V G Patel, Vishnu Pandya and farmer Genabhai Patel have bagged Padma Shri.
 
 Ratna Sundar Maharaj, 70, is a revered Jain saint who is widely acclaimed for his spiritual sermons and books aimed at uplifting the society and positively moulding the minds and life of youths. He has penned 311 books and was awarded the Golden Book of World Records for writing over 275 books in a single Gujarati language. 
 
 After surviving a serious highway accident in 2002, Dr Subroto Das established a highway accident helpline-- Gujarat's first emergency medical service (EMS). Das catalyzed EMS in countries like Sri Lanka working closely with stakeholders in Turkey, Bangladesh and Bhutan. 
 
 “I am humbled and honoured by this award through which the government has recognized every paramedic, every ambulance driver, every doctor who saves lives on roads and every person who intervenes in an accident as a bystander,” Das told TOI.
 
 Another doctor to win this civilian award is 84-year-old surgical oncologist Dr Devendra Patel who has made immense contribution in the field of cancer surgery in Gujarat. He was director of   from 1993-2002. "I have received many awards including the Dr BC Roy Award but getting national recognition in form of Padma Shri is a matter of pride", said Dr Patel who continues to operate cancers till date.
 
  Hasmukh Shah, who won the award in literature and education, is a a well-known entrepreneur, philanthropist and community leader. Shah is chairman and CEO of TV Asia, a coast-to-coast 24-hour TV broadcasting network for South Asians in the US with focused content for Indians ranging from politics, religious and social causes. Shah says he is committed to promoting arts, music and culture.
 
 In the field of agriculture, Banaskantha’s Genabhai Patel, a physically challenged farmer, bagged the honour for transforming drought-affect land to a profitable pomegranate farm. He developed new techniques in farming, making the border district the largest producer of this fruit that is even exported to the Middle East.
 
 
