NEW DELHI: Paving the way for early passage of amendments to the motor vehicles law, a   has suggested higher penalty for   including holding guardians responsible for any crime or accident due to  . It has also suggested treating death caused due to drunk driving as culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Indian Penal Code.

 In its report submitted to Parliament on Wednesday, the committee recommended treating accidents caused by drunk driving as pre-meditated crimes rather than as cases of mere ‘negligence’. It also wanted restrictions on carrying firearms in private vehicles to check road rage cases.
 
 At present, drink drivers causing death are booked under 304A of the IPC attracting two year jail or fine or both. But once such offence is treated as culpable homicide not amounting to murder, which falls under Section 304 of the IPC, are non-bailable and punishable with 10-year jail term or life imprisonment.
 
 The panel has largely accepted the higher penalties proposed in the bill and has suggested increasing fines for traffic offences by 10% annually through an executive order rather than rushing to Parliament for legislation every time. The penalties are being revised after 30 years.
 
 It turned down any move by the Centre or states to take over rights of states such as setting rules for regulating taxis including aggregators and the proposal to delegate its power to any person or group of persons to discharge any of its functions and duties under the Motor Vehicles Act. The panel called RTOs “dens of corruption” and supported the Centre’s move to have registration of vehicles at the dealers’ end.
 
 On holding guardians responsible for juvenile driving, the panel said, “If a juvenile commits a crime after taking control of the vehicle with or without the consent of his guardian, then the guardian may be held responsible for commission of the criminal act.” The bill proposes higher fine, impounding of vehicle and jail term for guardians in such cases.
 
 Considering cases of jaywalking and other non-motorised road users creating nuisance on roads, the panel suggested introducing “minor penalty” such as giving training on traffic rules and not penalty in monetary terms.
 
 As a corrective measure, the committee recommended that traffic offenders should mandatorily spend time “in emergency surgical OPDs of abroad accident victims” to understand the “consequence”.
 
 It also recommended strict implementation of duty hours for drivers and prohibiting driving of commercial vehicles from 3 am to 5 am and restricting movement of heavy vehicles during early morning.
 
 Noting that traffic policemen catch commuters for violations such as jumping traffic light and wrong lane driving as per their “whims and fancies”, the panel suggested that the government should come out with appropriate rules and regulations defining what constituted lane driving, red light jumping and violation of signals, to name a few.
 
