PUNE: Of the 1,102 candidates contesting the 2017  , three have declared assets of over Rs 100 crore. Sixty-two-year-old developer   who now owns the famous  , has emerged the richest candidate with declared assets of Rs 157.29 crore. Shewale is closely followed by two-time corporator Rekha Tingre with assets of Rs 134.29 crore and Yogesh Mulk with total declared assets of Rs 109.98 crore. 

 A first time contestant, Shewale will contest in the Aundh-Bopodi panel as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) official candidate. Shewale bought German Bakery in 2013 when it reopened following the terror attack in 2010. He has declared his profession as ‘business’ in an affidavit submitted to the state election commission. He has studied till Std X and is the father of two. 
 
 Hailing from the Aundh area, the Shewale family has been politically active for many years. Shewale’s brother Suresh is a former mayor and his sister-in-law is a former corporator. 
 
 In the affidavit, Shewale has declared immovable properties worth Rs 153.38 crore spread across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The affidavit says Shewale owns agricultural land in Wagholi, Sasewadi, Pimpri and Thane district and non-agricultural land in Bhosari, Bavdhan and Kolhapur district. He has commercial properties in Sangvi, Shivajinagar and commercial complexes in Aundh, Chinchwad, Ambegaon Pimpri and Yerawada. The residential houses and flats owned by his family are located in Wagholi, Aundh, Karve road, Tingrenagar and Paud road. Movable assets of his family include vehicles, fixed deposits, shares, and gems and jewellery.
 
 Shewale says that though had has never contested elections before, he has always actively supported family members who were in the PMC. “This time, my family urged me to contest,” he said. “This will ensure that the social commitment of our family to the city will continue. I think politics is a challenging job and I want to prove my credentials,” he said.
 
 Shewale will lock horns with NCP’s Shrikant Patil who was a former standing committee chairman and Anand Chhajed of the Congress. 
 
 Two-time corporator Rekha Tingre is the richest women candidate in the poll ring with assets of Rs 134.29 crore. 
 
 Rekha had lost her membership in September 2016 after a probe by the civic administration concluded that the complaint of illegal construction against her husband was true. Her membership was cancelled according to the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act's clause 10 (1D) and clause 11 (A). Under the act, if a corporator, his/her spouse or dependent builds an illegal structure and has directly or indirectly been responsible for it, he/she can be disqualified. 
 
 However, this has not deterred her from jumping into the fray for a third consecutive term as an NCP candidate. “After the suspension we got relief from the court in the matter. I am contesting the election for a social cause and have no intention of making money using this platform,” said Tingre, when asked why she was contesting again.
 
 Yogesh Mulik, the BJP candidate from Vadgaonsheri, is contesting for the second consecutive time. He says he wants to continue his family’s social commitment. “We have been into both polictics and social work for many years,” he said. “We are committed to Vadgaonsheri’s overall development.” 
 
 Yogesh’s brother Jagdish is a first-time MLA and had won the 2014 assembly elections in Vadgaonsheri. 
 
