JEWAR/DADRI:   missing in the voter's list, doubling-tripling of a single name in the list, male photograph on the list against female voter's name, absence of names of old voters and discrepancies in lists of BLO and election party, led to the poll fervour being hampered despite rural voters turning up to exercise their voting right in Jewar and Dadri constituencies, both of which showed over 60 per cent turnout till 5 pm.

 Hundreds of voters reported such problems from numerous villages in the Jewar and Dadri constituencies.
 
 While both the constituencies saw a higher turnout than Noida till 5 pm, voters said that if these problems could have been avoided, the voter-turnout could have increased in the constituencies.
 
 80-year Siriya, a villager from the Parsaul village of Jewar constituency-which saw the highest voter turnout at 66 %- said that despite having voted for all the years, his name was missing from the voters' list this time. His grandson’s name was also missing from the list, he said.
 
 Prakash Devi, another senior citizen said that her vote and her nephew Sandeep’s names were missing from the list despite having a Voter ID.
 
 Many said that while names of genuine voters were missing, those who are settled in other places found mention in the list.
 
 "Chanderpal Singh, Prashant Kumar and Geeta are members of the same family and residents of Delhi but their names are present in the list," said Sahdev Singh, an RLD agent showing the voter list of the same village.
 
 One person, Katar Singh, has his name in the list for Parsaul village three times, with four different serial numbers. The list mentions his name on 258, 259, 265 serial numbers. 
 
 Another person Sheetal Singh, son of Ramveer Singh, has his name twice at two serial numbers 1177 and 1178.
 
 In Neemka village, adopted by Union minister Dr Mahesh Sharma, Priya Choudhary and Manisha Attri had been issued voter slips but names were absent in the voter lists.
 
 "There are over 100 people in our village whose names were missing in the list despite voter slips being issued. It is the BLO’s responsibility to ensure that the names are there after correction and addition of names. This is a deliberate attempt by the BLO to cut votes of a particular community," Amarpal Singh of the village said.
 
 When contacted, Gudiya, one of the   (BLO) said there were discrepancies in the voters’ list she possessed and the one with the election party officials inside the booth.
 
 "While I had the updated list with me, there were many names that were not present in the list with the officials present inside the booth," she told TOI.
 
 Many new and old voters in Sabota-Jafrabad, Ahmedpur-Choroli, Bilaspur and Tirthali said that their names were missing in the list despite having given all the details to the BLO concerned.
 
 Such reports also came from Jarcha, Tughalpur and Surajpur areas, falling under the Dadri constituency.
 
 While the administration officials called updation of one's name in the list as "voter's responsibility", the voters said that had the BLOs and other concerned officials been pro-active, this could have been avoided and the final voter-turnout could have been higher than what it is.
 
 "We have held several booth level camps so that corrections/additions can be made in the final voters’ list. However, if someone is not checking whether her name is present, it would be difficult to ensure that their voter lists are made. Some discrepancies like doubling of names is usual in all elections but different names of voters in the list with the BLO and the one with the election party is impossible," DM NP Singh told TOI when asked about the complaints coming from the constituencies.
 
