MUMBAI: Politicians seeking a single ticket for a son or a wife is known. But this poll season has seen senior leaders cutting across party lines manage to get tickets for multiple members of their families. This has caused considerable resentment in local cadres that have been left without tickets despite working for years to build the parties.

 Shiv Sena, which has seen a large number of defections, for one, gave tickets to both Yashwant Jadhav and wife Yamini. While Yamini is a sitting corporator, Yashwant was defeated last year. Similarly, Rahul Shewale, an MP from the south central constituency who also heads the BMC’s standing committee, has secured tickets for his wife Kamini and and sister-in-law Vaishali, against the wishes of local Shiv Sainiks. Kamini was a corporator from Prabhadevi till 2007. She has got a ticket from Chembur, which upset the sitting corporator Dinesh Panchal; he has defected to BJP.
 
 “This year, there has been a lot of inconsistency in the way tickets were distributed. Several hopefuls were left disappointed as senior leaders tried to bargain for tickets for multiple family members,” said a senior Sena member. Political experts said this resentment will have a bearing on the final election campaign as local cadres and booth managers are the ones who help campaigns.
 
 The BJP awarded Panchal a ticket for himself as well as his wife Anita. The couple was given wards where the BJP did not have any candidate and they “were not upsetting anyone”. Morji and Kesar Patel are another couple in the fray to get BJP tickets from Anderi East.
 
 Congress gave tickets to Ashraf Azmi and wife Dilshad who recently shifted from SP. Both are contesting from Kurla.MNS, too, has given tickets to Dilip Lande and son Pranav, who will contest from neighbouring wards in Kurla. NCP has given tickets to Vaibhav and   for Dindoshi. “But it is better that only one person from a family contests as they can concentrate on the campaign and chances of winning are higher,” said a Congress corporator who too was in the fray but withdrew after his wife secured a ticket.
 
 
