RANCHI: Union urban development minister   on Tuesday announced that the Centre has sanctioned Rs 278.36 crore for various projects in   under the Atal Mission For Rejuvenation And Urban Transformation ( ),   and   

 Naidu, who was in the city to attend a review meeting of the urban development projects undertaken by the state, said that the state features among the top five states in the country for the implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). 
 
 "The Centre has already sanctioned 68% of the Rs 259.2 crore, allotted for the SBM in Jharkhand," Naidu said.
 
 "The Union government has set a roadmap for effective completion of four new projects under the AMRUT, smart city, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and Swachh Bharat Mission within the next three years. Under the AMRUT the Centre has sanctioned Rs 1,246 crore for 60 projects which are to be completed till 2020. Of the 5.71 lakh households in seven cities of Jharkhand -which have been selected for the AMRUT project- 1.94 lakh households have got water connections. I have asked the state government to expedite the process of providing water connections to the remaining 3.71 lakh households," Naidu added. 
 
 The state has been allotted Rs 188 crore after it made it to the list of 13 cities to be converted into a smart city. 
 
 Naidu said: "A model city will be developed over 646 acres of land, earlier used by the   (HEC). The Centre has allotted Rs 1,489 crore for this project. There are 17 sub-projects under this model city plan of which work on three projects -worth Rs 684 crore -will begin within the next two weeks. The model city will be equipped with medical facilities, community centre, civic centre, drainage and sewage connections, 24x7 water and electricity supply along with effective connectivity to airport and railway station."
 
 The Union minister also said that Rs 1,800 crore has been sanctioned for development of 'smart roads' linking the city airport with Birsa Chowk, Raj Bhavan, Ratu Road and Buti Mod.
 
 "At present the city's bus service consists of a fleet of 51 buses. This number will be increased to 300 in the PPP mode. I have also asked the state government to explore possibilities for metro rail and other mass rapid transit systems in the city," the minister said.
 
 Jharkhand is among the frontrunners among states in the implementation of reforms in the urban development sector, Naidu said. 
 
 He added: "Whichever state government performs the best in implementation of reforms will get a 20% incentive from the Centre, to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore." 
 
 The minister, who also holds the portfolio of information and broadcasting, said the state will soon have its own 24x7 television channel - DD Jharkhand. 
 
 
