HYDERABAD: Patients are getting exposed to health risk from the use of wrong drugs, overdose and also under-dosing due to prescription errors and large pool of lookalike and sound alike (LASA) drugs available in the market. Not just patients, there are instances where even healthcare givers, get confused.

 “Such cases are very common but are rarely reported.In some rare cases, the insulin dependent diabetic may become unconscious and he or she may be get into a life threatening situation like coma,“ warned Dr  , director, Institute of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Adiposity . Though medication error is a possibility that any patient may likely face in his or her lifetime, confusion on diabetic drugs holds significance as diabetes is the top preferred consultation booked by most digital health care users in metro cities, a latest health study by Practo reveals.
 
 While explaining the need for healthcare givers to spell the word `UNITS' clearly , Dr Shyam said that medication errors is also possible from the side of the patients as many a times they fail to understand the dosage difference while using commonly prescribed anti-diabetic oral drugs like  .
 
 This drug is available in four different dosages GP1, GP2, GP3 and GP4 based on dose strength ­ but there are said to be instances wherein diabetic patients may be either overdose or under-dose due to their carelessness. “In case a diabe tic takes lower dose than prescribed, the blood sugar can shot up but in case higher dose than prescribed, it may result in a condition called hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar),“ added Dr Shyam.
 
 Worse, there are many other LASA anti-diabetic trade names of drugs in the market that too compound the woes if one is not careful.
 
 So, what's the best way out?
 “For drugs names sounding alike or look alike (LASA), we store them separately from the regular drugs. The names of these drugs are written in tall man letters,“ said Dr Deepthi K, Clinical Pharmacist, Continental hospital.
 
 However,  , 47 ­ the Nalgonda based pharmacist behind the   rule making it mandatory for doctors to write their prescription in capital letters, feels that prescription errors happens not just because fail to write legibly but also the faulty nomenclature used by drug manufacturers while selecting trade names of their drugs.
 
