LUCKNOW: At a time   in the state were 50% short of the required number, the new government has decided to freeze the ongoing appointment process in which there were 3 lakh applications against 9,000   advertised. The government has directed to introduce a written test in place of the merit-based system of selection. Repeated stalling of the appointment process by successive governments has caused the shortfall to sustain for a long time, taking a toll on education in the state. 

 Sources in education department said deputy chief minister  , who is also heading the secondary education department has instructed senior officials to do away with the merit list and instead hold a test for appointment of teachers in government secondary schools. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, principal secretary secondary education   said the government wants worthy teachers to be recruited in government schools. “There was a consensus among officials to hold the entrance test before the last assembly elections but there was no political agreement and for lack of time, we had to go ahead with the merit-based system but thankfully, the counselling had not begun,’’ said Kumar, adding that the previous process will be done away with. 
 
 He said by the merit-based system, one is dependent only on certificates produced by candidates. Verification of the documents takes a long time. “We will now allow all candidates who applied online earlier for recruitment to appear for the written entrance test and this will happen only when the Act is amended,’’ said Kumar. 
 
 In November 2016, state government invited online applications for recruitment of government secondary school teachers. Recruitment began only after an amendment in UP Adhinastha Shiksha (Prashikshit Snatak or LT) Niyamawali, 1986. With the amendment in October 2016, LT grade teachers were appointed at state level. Before the amendment, teachers were recruited at divisional level cadre where joint director, education of each division was appointing authority and a division-wise merit list was prepared. 
 
 Schools in 75 districts in UP were divided among 18 divisions. The amendment in rules made teachers’ recruitment at state level cadre where the additional director, education became the appointing authority. A common merit list for appointments in all government secondary schools was made and the entire exercise took one year. 
 
 “Any change in existing rules will again be a year-long exercise which means, UP’s government schools will remain without teachers for that long,’’ said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 After a decade, a previous state government started the recruitment process in 2011 which went on for two years and there were only 1,100 appointments in these two years. In 2014, the government resumed the process and 1,800 appointments were in place by September-October, 2016 but by that time, more teachers had retired than those appointed. 
 
 When the amendment was done, an advertisement was published. “Between November and February, recruitment process was over and merit list was prepared,’’ said an official. But it is back to square one.
 
 BOX
 
 State of vacancy
 
 Of the 23,171 sanctioned posts of Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT) in 2,067 government-run secondary schools, 12,008 are  . TGT are eligible to teach classes IX and X. For classes XI and XII, a Post Graduate Teacher (PGT) is required. Government schools have 2,707 sanctioned posts for PGT and over 50% of the posts sanctioned are vacant.
 
