PUNE: The cadre of both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the   have been vocal about their chances of winning next month’s civic elections if they go it alone, but the leadership of both parties are finding it tough to identify candidates worthy of the bluster. 

 On February 21, Pune will elect 162 corporators and by several accounts, both   and the Sena have found it difficult to find capable candidates for all 162 seats. 
 
 “Had there been an alliance, BJP and Sena would have shared the seats. This would have helped both the parties field stronger, seasoned candidates. But now, parties will have to come out in full strength, which has made the task difficult. It is tough to find a candidate with a good reach in every panel,” sources said.
 
 The selection of candidates was tough to begin with, due to the four-ward panel system which has extended the boundaries of panels and increased the number of voters. To win, candidates will have to cover a huge area in the next 25 days if they are to win at least 70,000 votes. 
 
 In the last two elections, candidates had to visit a maximum of two wards, with a voter base of about 30,000. A senior Sena leader admitted they have a mountain to climb this time, as they will be without BJP’s support. Among the major parties, BJP interviewed the highest number of aspirants at over 800. “Aspirants had queued up in large numbers this time, but the party cannot obviously give tickets to every one. Some are too young to contest an election. After the split, we are also having to consider if the candidate is strong against the Shiv Sena,” a BJP leader said.
 
 According to political observers, the two saffron parties (BJP and Sena) have a strong hold over only specific pockets in the city. BJP is strong in the central parts while Sena has a huge voter base in some other areas. It is in the outskirts that the parties are under pressure, as there are few good candidates to be found. 
 
 BJP city unit president  , however, was unfazed. He said the party has been preparing for the elections for a few months, and had a Plan ‘B’ in the event of a break-up of the alliance. 
 
