  : When 'Iron Lady' Irom Sharmila - who took on the Centre single-handedly with her epic 16-year-long fast demanding repeal of AFSPA - filed her nomination against   CM Okram Ibobi Singh, few were on her side. The significance of the quest for political equality that Sharmila has set out to achieve was lost on many. That is because politically, women are nowhere on the scene in the state. Twelve elderly Manipuri women had in 2004 staged a naked protest outraged over the rape and murder of a woman allegedly by personnel of the Assam Rifles. Yet these guardians are still ignored in the political arena.

 Take the major parties. All told, there are only 10 women nominees among the 266 candidates. This, despite the fact that women outnumber the state's male voters. The Congress and   have fielded two women candidates each, while  's TMC has fielded one woman candidate. Apart from Sharmila herself, PRJA has fielded Manipur's first Meitei Muslim woman candidate. The outgoing assembly has three women, including Ibobi Singh's wife.
 
 A Congress politico claims, "The party is interested in giving more tickets to women, but they're not interested in politics." Explanation or excuse? Strangely, a BJP neta made exactly the same remark to justify the absence of women in the fray. Leading women's activist Sobita Devi says a patriarchal society, lack of economic independence and the lack of support from families, even their husbands, is the reason behind this inequality being perpetrated.
 
 "In Manipur, women are at the forefront when it comes to taking on militants and security forces. But when it comes to equal rights in policy-making, the equation is vastly skewed," she says. Devi's NGO Women Action for Development is working to gauge how much funds a woman needs to contest an assembly election. "However strong Manipur's women may be, they live in a patriarchal society. Men call the shots in society and at home. Fighting elections is all about money and muscle power - women here lack both," she said.
 
 But there's hope yet. "Five years from now, you'll see a change," says a hopeful Devi, adding that women have 33% reservation at the panchayat and urban level elections but not where it matters the most - the assembly. For Devi and hundreds of women, Sharmila has shattered that barrier that kept women away from contesting. Others are part cautious, part sceptical about Sharmila's bid. "Irom's entry into politics came just six months ago...Her party is controlled by a few men. Some of them are using her iconic status to make headway in politics," says Binalakshmi Nepram, author and founder of Manipur Women Gun Survivors Network, Control Arms Foundation India. 
 
 Nepram says it's a long road ahead for real 'change'. Sharmila's poll bid is crowd-funded, including donations from Delhi CM  . She has said she'll defeat the CM and take up the one cause she crusaded for - repeal of AFSPA.
 
