SASARAM /NAWADA/ARA: Sporadic violence at some places in the state marred the otherwise peaceful   celebrations in Bihar on Wednesday.

 Police sources said a mob, which was part of a Ram Navami procession, burned a truck carrying cows at Tenduni under Bikramganj police station area in Rohtas district. “The people in the procession unloaded the cows, around 15 in number, and torched the truck. Later, the mob went towards the Bikramganj police station and attacked some shops and even burned a bike,” sources said and added that a group supporting the shopkeepers clashed with the mob. “Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the violent mob. Several rounds were fired during the violence. However, it could not be known whether police or the miscreants open fire,” the source said.
 
 The mob also attacked the house of local RJD MLA Sanjay Yadav and damaged the windowpanes. 
 
 Rohtas DM Animesh Parasar and SP M S Dhillon reached the spot. At least 12 people were injured in the violence. “We have deployed adequate security personnel to control the situation,” the SP said. 
 
 In Nawada, despite heavy deployment of security personnel after Tuesday violence, a group of miscreants thrashed some commuters passing through a bridge on Khuri river on Wednesday. The incident was said to be a fallout of Tuesday violence near Sadbhavna Chowk under Town police station area after a cut-out of Lord Rama was found damaged.
 
 Police sources said soon after the thrashing of commuters, another group rushed to the spot and indulged in stone pelting. Security personnel were rushed there to prevent any untoward incident. 
 
 A gang of bikers participating in a Ram Navami procession led by   member Uday Mandal burned a few shops at Rampatti Hatia under Rajnagar police station area in Madhubani district after the villagers led by Bhagwatipur panchayat mukhiya Raman Kumar opposed them saying the procession was not allowed on that route. Old political rivalry is said to be the reason behind the incident.
 
 But there were also incidents of communal harmony at several places in the state. At Ara in  , members of   applied scent (ittar) to thousands of devotees who were part of the Ram Navami procession. More than 50,000 people took part in the procession with 100 tableau and 300 vehicles. The Al-Khidmat members also distributed ‘sharbat’ among the devotees. The RJD MLA from Ara, Anwar Alam, was also seen offering ‘sharbat’ and sweets to those taking part in the ‘Shobha Yatra’. 
 
