VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though there is no cause for panic now, doctors have asked citizens to exercise caution with sporadic cases of   being reported in city. Death of a pregnant woman was reported a few days ago and at present there are two other cases of hospitalisation though the patients are recovering.

 Health officials say it’s treatment at the right time that goes a long way in saving the life of patients. Right now, it’s not very cold in the city for the H1N1 virus to be virulent, but people keep travelling to and from other places which enhances the risk of getting affected by the swine flu virus.
 
 Medical superintendent of Government Hospital for Chest and Infectious Diseases Dr   said, “If a person suffers from sore throat and high fever, he/she should immediately visit the nearest health centre where required treatment with Tamiflu medicine can be administered. The response of the patient to treatment also depends on their immunity or resistance power. It’s also advisable for people to wear masks, especially when they are in crowded places to avoid transmission of the virus.”
 
 The H1N1 is a contagious virus that spreads from one person to another through tiny droplets released into the air when a flu-infected person coughs or sneezes. Based on the symptoms and severity, H1N1 status and treatment have been categorised under A, B1, B2 and C as per the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 Nodal officer for swine flu at   (KGH) and professor of medicine Dr K Indira Devi elaborated, “Under Category A, one suffers from mild fever, runny nose, mild body pain and mild sore throat. Such patients are given symptomatic treatment with paracetamol tablets and kept in home quarantine. They have to be kept on observation for 24-48 hours and if the symptoms don’t subside within a week, then they are considered Category B patients.”
 
 “Under Category B, patients are of two types - B1 and B2. B1 refers to patients with high grade fever (above 101 degree Celsius), severe sore throat, severe body pain, diarrhoea and so on. While B2 refers to such patients with associated complications including those of diabetes, respiratory problems, COPD, those suffering from immuno-deficiency diseases, children below five years and adults above 65 years, those on immuno-suppressive drugs and so on. Such patients should be kept in home quarantine and Tamiflu capsules should be administered while swab test is a must. Category C patients have all the above symptoms of Category B as well as warning signals such as chest pain, breathlessness, persistent vomiting and dizziness. Immediate hospitalisation is required for such patients besides sending the swabs to labs for confirmation of H1N1. If patients have pneumonia, lung infection, and oxygen saturation level in the blood falls, they have to be kept on ventilator,” Dr Devi explained.
 
 Meanwhile, at KGH, a micro PCR facility has been set up in the virology lab to detect swine flu within three hours of the test. Earlier, swab samples had to be sent to   (IPM) and it would take three-four days for the test results to arrive. But now treatment can be promptly started as within a few hours and the H1N1 status would be known. District health officials said there is adequate supply of masks, Tamiflu capsules, equipment and medicines for treatment of swine flu.
 
