Nagpur: After strong opposition by amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Heritage Committee granting permission to Ravan Dahan and garba programmes, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court added their organizers as respondents in the PIL to protect the heritage ground. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye on Monday asked Sanatan Dharma Yuvak Sanstha, which organizes Ravan Dahan, and a popular media group, which conducts garba, to reply to notices before next hearing. The bench could take up the case on Wednesday, since Navaratri festival begins from Thursday. Interestingly, even the court had allowed a grand function by the ruling BJP to felicitate Union minister Nitin Gadkari on his 60th birthday on May 27 at the place, after initially prohibiting all commercial activities on April 27. The latest move came after amicus pointed out that the heritage panel initially declined permission to both events, where thousands of people participate every year, considering the threat to the Grade-I heritage structure. But after coming under pressure from various quarters, the panel members reversed the decision in a hurriedly organized meeting. He contended that the decision was reversed without required quorum of members, which was illegal. Bhandarkar asserted that no permission should be granted to any event on the Grade-I heritage structure, as it would set a wrong precedent and other event organizers would also join the bandwagon. He warned that entire purpose of the PIL would be defeated if such events were allowed to take place, and pathetic condition of historic place would be back to square one. “The applicants, who may have sought permission, are not parties before this court. We, therefore, permit the amicus to place this grievance on record with necessary details,” the judges stated. They also flayed the collector’s office for unnecessarily seeking adjournments to furnish information sought by them. “The impression given is that office of collector is interested only in delaying the scrutiny. If appropriate affidavit is not filed, the collector with all lessees, shall remain present on the next date of hearing,” the judges warned. The court was hearing the suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) based on media reports alleging gross misuse of the historic park due to negligence by district administration, who often rent it out for commercial activities. After amicus strongly argued that no change of user was permissible for Grade-I structure, the judges asked collector and Heritage Committee to take his views before granting permission to any private party for holding events. However, under pressure, the panel cleared both proposals unilaterally without even intimating Bhandarkar. In the last hearing, the amicus also brought to the court’s notice that leading clubs like Gondwana, CP, Ladies, Maharaj Bagh, Officers’ and YMCA, among others, had failed to submit their audit reports of last three years to the collector, despite specific orders. The judges then asked clubs to complete formalities while directing the collector to submit an affidavit, which he failed to submit till date.