NAGPUR: Orange City's young chess queen,  , added another feather to her cap by winning Asian medals in her five-year-old illustrious chess career. Divya, who is city's only Women Fide Master (WFM), retained her medal-winning spree in the continent. She brought home a gold, a silver and a bronze medal each in the three events at the   which concluded at Tashkent, Uzbekistan, on Sunday.

 With this podium finish, the 11-year-old took her tally of international medals to 20. Earlier, she won 12 gold, two silver and three bronze medals from the Asian and World Chess Championships. Last year in the same event at Mongolia, Divya won a couple of gold and a silver medal.
 
 The U-11 national champion, accompanied by father   to Tashkent, represented the country in the U-12 girls' category. She won a bronze medal in the standard format of 64 squares while brought home yellow metal in the blitz event before winning silver in the rapid chess meet in the 10-day tourney. With this performance, Bhavan's BVM, Civil Lines, student earned the right to represent India in next year's World Youth Chess Championship in the U-14 category.
 
 The three-time national champion finished the standard format with seven points after winning as many rounds after two defeats and missed the title by just half-a-point. Divya had a tie for the second spot with compatriot   after both the Indians finished with 7 points. Woman Chess Master (WCM) Kamalidenova Meruert of Kazakistan won the U-12 girls' crown with 7.5 points. The 8th and penultimate round, however, broke Divya's heart as the top seed was upset by Vietnam's Nguyen Thien Ngan. Earlier in the 5th round, Divya lost to Rakshitta.
 
 Aware of the end result after losing the penultimate round to Nguyen, Divya called her mother Namrata to regret the defeat. "She sounded a bit upset after the 8th round defeat but said she will fight back and will surely win the last round. Her attitude and hunger of winning gave Divya this podium finish," Namrata told TOI.
 
 As a fighter, Divya delivered and posted a comfortable win in the 9th and final round over Uzbekistan's   to claim bronze.
 
 Divya gave an excellent start to her campaign by winning silver medal in the rapid event by collecting 7 points in 9 rounds. The World Cadet bronze medalist finished the meet with a gold in the shortest format of the game - blitz on Sunday.
 
 Starting the blitz event as a third seed, Divya garnered 8 points for the triumph. On her way to glory, Divya toppled the applecart of top seed Kamalidenova Meruert from Kazakistan in their 6th round battle.
 
 On her way to title Divya - despite losing the second round to WCM Shohradowa Lala - bounced back to outclass Khalil Hanan, Chinnam Vyshnavi, Latifah Darmaki, Nguyen Thien Ngan, Bhagyashree Patil, Bobomurodova Maftuna and  .
 
 Elated with Divya's performance, Namrata said, "It is indeed a very proud moment for us. Divya's consistent performance shows she has a very bright future. Divya is very hard working. We, as a parents, want to leave no stone unturned despite all the financial constraints we face and support her to the maximum. She wants to be a world champion like Anand."
 
 Divya gave the credit of her success to coach and Grandmaster RB Ramesh, school principal   and parents.
 
 
