BENGALURU: N   alias Ammajamma, homemaker and resident of  , turned panicky when relatives and family friends landed on her doorstep on Monday evening.
Annapurna, 40, was told that her son, N  , had met with an accident and would return home after treatment.But the mother in Annapurna immediately sensed that something was amiss.
 
 “Tell me, if my son is just injured in an accident, why are these people coming to our house? Who are those groups of people standing and talking among themselves? I can see that something is wrong with my son.Please don't hide anything.Please tell me what has happened?“ Annapurna pleaded with her husband Narayanaswamy, who owns 10 cows and sells milk for a livelihood.
 
 The couple's daughter, a II PU student, struggled to hold her emotions as Nani, as Narayanaswamy is known in the neighbourhood, reassured his wife that all was well with Harsha Raj.
 
 The family lives on the outskirts of Yelahanka Old Town.Built on the bed of Yelahanka lake, which is dry now, Nani's house is among nine such houses lining the street. Most of the residents here sell milk for a livelihood. Relatives said they did not break the news to Annapurna that Harsha was stabbed to death, fearing that the diabetes patient may be unable to handle the shock.
 
 Hemaraj, a relative, said, “We have only told her that Harsha Raj met with an accident and is being treated at  . Like any mother, she is upset and forcing us to take her to hospital.“
 
 Nani, though, knew that his son was dead and struggled to answer his wife. “I have sent my cousins and others to hospital to arrange for a postmortem. I am shocked. Harsha was happy that he had won Best Volleyball Player award. I had bought him a new set of clothes which he wore to school,“ he said.
 
 Relatives recalled how Harsha would lend a helping hand to his parents by looking after the cows. “Soon after finishing school, he would come home and wash the cows. We could see how much he loved them. Whenever he called them by name, the cows would lift their heads in his direction,“ Muniraju, a close family member, told TOI.
 
