Kolkata: The   has denied that soldiers in combat gear, carrying weapons, entered a primary school premises in Barrackpore and threatened staff, asking them to move out of the premises. A letter, purportedly written on February 27 by the principal of the school to parents, has been circulating in Barrackpore and the social media alleging that 15 armed soldiers in full combat gear entered the school on February 17 and told the staff to vacate the premises by February 28.

 “This statement of soldiers in combat gear moving about in the school is and threatening staff is absolutely false and baseless. This never happened. This is an attempt to deviate attention from the real issue of flouting of rules of the Barrackpore Cantonment Board by the school by maligning the image of the Army,” said Wg Cdr S S Birdi, CPRO, Ministry of Defence, Kolkata.
 
 The letter also claims that about five soldiers paid another visit to the school on February 22 and one of them asked the guard to remove the board outside. Birdi alleged that the school was carrying out illegal construction in the premises at night to avoid detection.
 
 “The usage of the school building and the plot on which it stands is guided by the rules of the Barrackpore Cantonment Board. These rules do not permit any illegal construction. The Board observed illegal construction and requested the local Army formation to deliver a letter on its behalf, informing the school of the illegal activity,” he said.
 
 It has been mentioned in the letter that the plot on which the school stands is litigated property. The Army doesn’t dispute this. “This is more reason why no construction should be allowed at the premises without the court’s orders,” an officer in the Easter Command headquarters at Fort William said.
 
 For the last several months, rumours have been doing the rounds in Barrackpore that the Army is attempting to close down schools within the Cantonment. This doesn’t seem to be correct. “We have not faced any trouble with the Army though our school is within the Cantonment Board jurisdiction,” said Sharmila Rakshit, principal of Central Model School on Riverside Road.
 
 
