JAIPUR/ALWAR: Around 80% polling was recorded in the Dholpur assembly   in Rajasthan on Sunday. This almost matched the 2013 assembly election polling of 80.7% reported from the constituency.

 “The polling percentage is around 80%. The exact number will be known only by Monday,” state chief electoral officer Ashwini Bhagat said. 
 
 The counting will take place on April 13 when the fate of 15 candidates will be decided.
 
 The main contest is between Bharatiya Janata Party’s ( ) Shobha Rani Kushwah, wife of the convicted   leader and former MLA B L Kushwah, and   party’s Banwari Lal Sharma, a former minister whom Kushwah defeated by a margin of 9,209 votes in 2013.
 
 Of the over 1.91 lakh voters, 90,076 are female.
 
 For the first time in the state, the   (EC) used the verifiable paper audit trial (VPAT) machines for the by- poll.
 
 Chief minister   campaigned in her home turf along with her ministers. Raje is married to Hemant Singh of the erstwhile Dholpur royal family.
 
 In 2013, the BJP won only one of the four seats in the district despite breaking the record by winning 163 out of 200 assembly seats for the party in the state.
 
 The party could only record a win from the reserved constituency of Baseri, while Dholpur went to BSP, and Bari and Rajakhera to Congress. In an earlier by-poll held in the four seats, BJP lost three to the Congress and was able to win only one.
 
 The enthusiasm among voters was evident from early morning as they started queuing up in front of polling booths before voting began at 7am to beat the scorching heat. The young and the old alike were seen in queues to cast their votes.
 
 The voting continued till 6pm. Security was specially beefed up in 67 polling stations which were identified as ‘critical’. There were some issues of EVMs not working properly but these were rectified soon.
 
 “The polling was held peacefully,” said electoral officer Bhagat, adding that the huge voter turnout was encouraging.
 
 “The voter response was overwhelming as they came out in huge numbers braving the intense heat,” he said.
 
 He also denied some media reports of some voting machines casting votes for only one party.
 
 The by-poll for the Dholpur assembly seat was necessitated after BSP legislator Banwari Lal Kushwah was disqualified following his conviction in a murder case last year.
 
 The by-election is a prestige issue for both the Congress and the ruling BJP. Other than Raje, state BJP president Ashok Parnami and CM’s cabinet colleagues have been camping in the constituency to woo voters.
 
 As for the Congress, senior leaders, including   president Sachin Pilot, former chief minister Ashok Gehlot and leader of opposition in Rameshwar Dudi, campaigned extensively in the constituency.
 
 In the 2013 assembly elections, the Congress suffered one of its worst defeats in the history of the state, winning only 21 of the 200 assembly seats. The BJP swept the polls, winning 163 seats.
 
