Colva: Lack of sufficient sanitation facilities in Margao has left South Goa’s main town vulnerable to outbreaks of vector-borne diseases, a situation compounded by the monsoon, with stagnant water serving as a breeding ground for mosquitoes. To check the situation, the health department and the Margao municipal corporation are carrying out fumigation and anti-larvae measures in drains, wells, tanks and other areas. Sources said Margao has always been vulnerable to vector-borne diseases due to lack of proper sanitation facilities. Locals said open spaces are used for defecation leading to fly-borne diseases. Construction sites add to the problem as most contractors fail to provide sanitation facilities, forcing workers to use the areas around as open toilets. The under-construction district hospital itself has huge amounts of stagnant water in and around the site. Around 250 labourers work at the site without proper toilet facilities, sources said. Konkan Railway Corporation property along the station road is another area used for open defecation due to lack of proper sanitation facilities in slums in the area. Health officer Marthinha Fernandes said open defecation is a serious health hazard, and added that they undertake various measures to prevent outbreak of diseases. “Even if the municipality informs us of breeding sites we attend to their complaints, despite the civic body having a sanitary cell,” she said. According to the health department record, in the last six months seven notices have been issued to scrapyards dealers and three builders. Fernandes said her department is vigilant, and over the years builders have fallen in line and begun to ensure health guidelines compliance though a few errant contractors still try to play truant. “Scrapyards are a nuisance, but surprise checks keep them on the toes,” she added. Margao municipal council chairperson Babita Prabhudessai said though the council had not written to the KRC, they are working in tandem with the health department and undertaking fogging and spraying operations.  She said due to lack of rain so far there has been no outbreak of diarrhoea, but added that viral diarrhoea is in the air. Prabhudessai said the council has not been able to build toilets under the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan, but has repaired many toilets.  Former chief minister and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat said that in areas like Monte Dongor, Azad nagar and Maria bandh community toilets have been built. Land to build toilets in the KRC area, however, poses a problem, he said. 