CHENNAI: The   draft is a big day for Indian footballers and left-winger   is fighting his own battle to find a place in the elite league. It has emerged that he is purportedly still in contract with I-League club   for another two years, but the player disputes that theory.

 The 22-year-old Ruidas, who has been cleared by   to be part of the draft, said he has not signed any deal following the expiry of his three-year contract last season. "East Bengal claim that I have signed for them last month but I haven't signed any contract with any club. I am a free player and I have registered for the draft. Now, after East Bengal's claims, I am unsure whether any franchise will pick me. If they don't, it's my hard luck. But then, either I am playing in ISL or I am ready to sit at my home. But I am not going back to East Bengal, because they have broken my trust," Ruidas told TOI on Saturday.
 
 It's understood that at least ISL three franchises are interested in taking him. A source close to the developments said that if he is picked by a franchise, his East Bengal contract will be probed. "If its proved that East Bengal are lying, there can be criminal proceedings against the club and their sponsors Kingfisher," the source said.
 
 According to Ruidas, he had signed a two-year deal with his childhood club East Bengal back in 2014-15 season. After his impressive performances in the first season, the club extended the contract till 2016-17. "But I made a mistake. Since East Bengal is my alma mater, I had complete faith in the club. So, on both occasions, I signed on blank papers. The terms of the contract were drafted later and sent to me," said Ruidas.
 
 This time, though, Ruidas hadn't put pen to paper. "During the Federation Cup in Cuttack, a senior East Bengal official offered me a new contract. It was all verbal and he asked me to sign on a blank paper like I did three years ago. However, I politely told the official that I cannot sign on a blank paper and asked for some time to think. Almost a month later, I got a call from an East Bengal club official asking me to attend practice since I am a contracted player with them. It was out of the blue and I was shocked. I immediately went to the club and asked them to show me the signed contract. But they couldn't. So I approached the   (AIFF) through my agent," Ruidas said.
 
 Following AIFF's intervention, East Bengal submitted a copy of the contract registered with   ( ) to the parent body, a copy of which is with TOI. But Ruidas alleges that the club might have forged his signature. "The contract I was given earlier had signatures of witnesses and it was on a proper court paper. These contracts are just on pieces of paper. So they might have just forged or photocopied my signature on those blank papers. In a way, they broke my trust. Had they not done this, I would have eventually played for them since they are my parent club," asserted Ruidas.
 
 Refuting Ruidas' claims, a top East Bengal official said they have enough proof that Ruidas is their player. "We have already submitted our documents with AIFF and IFA and it is clear that he is our player. We have nothing more to say," the official said.
 
 IFA general secretary Utpal Ganguli also supported East Bengal's claims. "We have seen the contract papers. East Bengal also has the players' token meaning that the player is entitled to play for them. The players' status committee will meet on Tuesday or Wednesday and will decide on his fate. All I can say he is no position to be part of ISL draft," Ganguli said.
 
 
