MUMBAI: If the  , in its 'vachan nama' or manifesto for the   released on Monday, has assured Mumbaikars that it will get all clearances for the coastal road from the BJP-led government in the next five years, the BJP, in a bid to unnerve its state and Central ally, has set a three-year deadline for the project's completion in its own manifesto, which will be out soon.

 The BJP has almost finalised it draft manifesto for the city polls and is waiting for the fate of alliance talks with Sena to be decided before making it public. “We will release the manifesto in a day or two,” said a BJP leader who did not wish to be named.
 
 A BJP leader who revealed to TOI some key promises that will be part of the party's manifesto said the LED lights project at Marine Drive would surely feature in the document. That is another point where the BJP would want to score over the Sena, which has been opposed to the replacement of the sodium vapour lamps along the Queen's necklace. While the Sena has said that LED lights will rob the stretch of its charm, the BJP's argument is that will actually help “save energy."
 
 The manifesto will also talk about the revival of the `Station Area Traffic Improvement System' (SATIS),' a project that could not take off earlier in Mumbai, in order to develop the areas outside railway stations.
 
 The BJP leader said that apart from comprehensive development of the city , the party had specifically thought about sections like women, senior citizens, students and residents of koliwadas and gaothans. “Construction of 5,000 toilets for women under the `right to pee' initiative is on the cards. Every kilometre there will be a toilet, and women will be able to locate it on a mobile app," the leader said.
 
 Residents of koliwadas, gaothans and East Indian colonies have been facing problems regarding redevelopment of their houses and buildings, the leader said. “We will have a policy for residents who wish to redevelop their properties. Also, 10,000odd buildings in the city have to pay double the water and sewage charges because they have not obtained `occupation certificates' (OCs) from the BMC. Those buildings which have completed 15 years will be issued OCs," he said. A wifi-covered Mumbai, five new medical colleges, an amusement park for senior citizens, and a science centre in the name of the late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam to boost the interest of school students in science are among the other promises likely to be part of the  .
 
 The Sena declared its manifesto on Monday , before a final decision on alliance had been taken.
 
