NAGPUR: Most people suffering from glaucoma are not aware of the disease until it is diagnosed. However, treatment and regular follow-ups with the doctor can maintain a person’s vision, said Dr Sulabha Deshpande, an ophthalmologist, at   Salve Institute of   and  , Hingna.

 Deshpande was speaking at   programme at the institute which will conclude on March 18. 
 
 According to Deshpande, the disease affects 66 million people worldwide and around 50% of them are not aware of the condition. The signs usually start showing at the age of 40. Glaucoma occurs when the pressure of aqueous humor (fluid which supports the natural structure of the eye) increases inside the eyeball and damages the optic nerve, resulting in vision loss.
 
 Pressure increases when trabecular meshwork located around the base of the cornea is blocked which causes open angle glaucoma, she said. The meshwork acts as a pressure stabilizing system in human eye which drains out fluid to release excess pressure. The fluid also supplies nutrients and acts as a cleansing agent for the eye.
 
 Deshpande said there are two types of glaucoma viz primary and secondary. She said that there are no direct causes known for primary glaucoma except when it is congenital which is linked to genetics. Although, the secondary type may be caused by a blunt force trauma to the eye, its inflammation and cataract. Other causes may include diet, hypertension or family history of the disease.
 
 Deshpande cautioned those undergoing treatment for inflammation as its treatment involves use of steroids which are a known cause for glaucoma. Children diagnosed with glaucoma at birth are at risk of losing eyesight early on in life if treatment does not start at the right time.
 
 “People suffering from glaucoma are unaware because they can’t see the symptoms,” said Deshpande. She advised those having trouble with eyesight after the age of 40 to visit a doctor and, if diagnosed with glaucoma, they should undergo treatment and have a regular follow-up.
 
 Treatments include medication, trabeculoplasty and surgery. Trabeculoplasty is a procedure where trabecular meshwork is dilated increasing room for fluid drainage whereas surgery involves creating a new opening around the base of the cornea to facilitate the drainage.
 
 Deshpande asserted that patient’s compliance with the doctor’s guidance and treatment is critical to stop complete blindness. “The main aim of the treatment is to maintain the vision of the patient if not completely eradicating the disease,” she concluded. 
 
