NASHIK: Plying on the   highway will now come at a price. The   ( ) has started levying toll fees on vehicles using the highway at two locations after completion of a major portion of the four-laning of the 138-km stretch between Sinnar and Khed.

 One toll plaza has come up at Hiwargaon Pawasa, 80 km from Nashik, the other toll plaza has been constructed at Chalakwadi, 121 km from Nashik. The toll collection began at Hiwargaon Pawasa at Saturday midnight and is set to start at the other toll plaza from Sunday midnight. The two toll plazas are equipped with ambulances, cranes and washrooms. 
 
 The work of widening the stretch from Sinnar to Khed was given to IL&FS company on Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis. Over the past two-and-a-half years, the widening of the road was under way. 
 
 Officials said work on 104 km has been completed, while the remaining work was pending due to issues of land acquisitions in Pune district. “Considering that 76% of the work is complete, the NHAI has approved implementation of collection of toll fee from vehicles plying on the road,” an official said. 
 
 The officials said that the completed road works include new road of 66 km, eight bypass roads, repairs of five ghat areas, nine major bridges and 23 small bridges. Apart from this, there are eight grade separators, 32 vehicle underpasses, truck parking and illumination at many places.
 
 The Sinnar Expressway Company, a subsidiary of IL&FS, would be responsible for the maintenance of the widened road for 20 years. 
 
 Officials of the IL&FS company said the signboards and tree plantation along the road have given it a smart look and the road was an important link between the two major cities of Nashik and Pune. The officials added that the highway was also part of the  .
 
 Over the past many years, residents of Nashik and Pune were awaiting the widening of the Nashik-Pune highway (NH 50) so that it would cut down the travel time. Considering the poor rail link between the two cities, road travel was the only option for travellers between these two cities. 
 
 Officials of the construction company said that till a years back. it would take at least six hours to travel between Nashik and Pune. Now, with the widening of the road, the travel time has been nearly cut to half and once the road was fully complete, it would take even lesser time. 
 
 In the meantime, the work of widening the 25-km stretch from Sinnar to Nashik has lingered for eight years, much to the chagrin of regular motorists. Expected to be completed till April this year, the work is set to miss another deadline. 
 
 The process of land acquisition started in 2009 and the actual work took off in 2013. Although the widening of the remaining highway is being done by the National Highways Authority of India, the work in this stretch is being implemented by state public works department (PWD). Sources of the state PWD admitted that the completion of the work shall take more time following constrains on various issues.
 
 At present, the work of the stretch after Shinde village continues at a snail’s pace. Similarly, nothing has been done on the stretch within the jurisdiction of the Nashik Municipal Corporation.
 
 Senior officials said the work of constructing a bypass road from Malegaon to Gurewadi, which is about 9.51 km, is almost 80% complete. There was a technical hurdle in the remaining part, which has now been resolved and the work is likely to begin by this month-end.
 
