NAGPUR: It seems that the Ajni police are in no hurry to arrest the private contractor engaged by the state public works department (PWD) for road concretization work on  .

 Three days after the traffic police filed a complaint against the contractor for culpable homicide for an accident on February 24 which claimed the life of a 32-year-old motorist, the Ajni police are yet to arrest the accused.
 
 Pankaj Asthankar was booked for culpable homicide for the death of Ashish Raut. The traffic police submitted a detailed report holding the contractor responsible for Raut’s death after his vehicle skidded on the stretch between Shatabdi Nagar Square and  .
 
 Senior PI Shailesh Sankhe said no arrest has been made so far and clarified that the police station will first serve a notice to Asthankar. He added it is a bailable offence. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone-IV) R Pardesi refused to comment stating he is not in town.
 
 Lawyer   said, “The law would take its own course but the NMC should compensate the victim’s family on compassionate grounds. The corporation should provide a job to his family member, if they’re poor. In one such landmark case, the   directed the railways to pay hefty compensation to a woman’s family who was killed while boarding a running train.”
 
 Since the offence was registered under Section 304 of IPC, nothing much can be done. However, the NMC should take care to appoint guards on round-the-clock basis at all such places where roads works are being undertaken. Despite repeated attempts, PWD’s superintending engineer P Navghare wasn’t available for comments.
 
 The traffic police said it is not the only Ring Road patch where accidents take place due to negligence in road concretization workIn fact, the ongoing works at many places pose similar problems.
 
 Recently, TOI had highlighted similar violations by RPS Infroprojects Pvt Ltd, which is carrying out widening of 5-km ring road patch between new Katol Naka square and Mankapur square.
 
 The company has not taken the necessary no-objection certificate from the traffic police before the start of the work.
 
