CHENNAI: Sleuths from the state vigilance and   have arrested a   of the   Jayakumar for demanding and accepting a bribe to remove the names of a suspect from an FIR and release two luxury cars seized in connection with the case. An assistant commissioner of police who was present when the inspector accepted the bribe, is also under the scanner for his role in the incident.

 Based on a complaint from Kannan of Nolambur, the team led by assistant commissioner of police of vigilance and anti-corruption Udayshankar nabbed Jayakumar when he received Rs 1.5 lakh on Friday in his room at the Puzhal police station. During questioning, Jayakumar told vigilance officials that he had collected the bribe based on the ACP’s advice. Subsequently, the vigilance officials arrested Jayakumar. 
 
 Kannan and a woman Bindu were named in a case pertaining to the extortion and kidnapping of a pawnbroker Suresh Babu and his wife on January 13. Kannan had befriended Suresh Babu after the latter helped him retrieve his gold jewellery pledged in a private finance firm. 
 
 Kannan and Bindu informed Suresh Babu that they needed his help in retrieving 1,200 grams of gold jewellery worth Rs 18 lakh pledged in a cooperative bank. Kannan also struck a deal with Suresh Babu to get a commission for introducing the client to him. Suresh Babu and his wife travelled with Kannan and Bindu in two luxury Audi and Mercedes Benz cars to meet the bank manager. Kannan and Bindu stopped the cars at Mahabalipuram and took Suresh Babu and his wife to a lodge, where they allegedly snatched Rs18 lakh in cash from the pawnbroker.
 
 Based on Suresh Babu’s complaint, the Puzhal police registered a case. As Suresh Babu and Bindu returned part of the amount, they were not arrested. Meanwhile, the Puzhal inspector Jayakumar demanded Rs 5 lakh as bribe to release them from the case and also to release the seized luxury cars. Kannan and Bindu paid Rs 1 lakh but when the inspector demanded the remaining amount, Kannan approached the vigilance officials and lodged a formal complaint.
 
 
