PUNE: A simple black helmet has left the personnel of four   and the crime branch stumped.

 A   has been getting away with theft over the past two months as officials continue to  . He has managed to dupe seven victims since his first reported theft on November 14 last year. His latest strike was on Monday.
 
 A cooperative bank’s   was his seventh target. He approached the bank with 20 notes of Rs100 denomination and sought a note of Rs2,000. But after the exchange, the bank employee realized that the   had distracted her and managed to steal 22 notes of Rs2,000 denomination.
 
 The suspect has succeeded in stealing Rs2.58 lakh from different parts of the city from November last year. His targets, though varied, do seem to have a pattern. His victims, so far, have been elderly shop owners and employees, an owner of a betting centre and women employees of a credit cooperative society, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company’s bill collection centre and now a bank.
 
 So far, he has stolen 92 notes of Rs2,000 denomination and six notes of Rs500. He had stolen four scrapped notes of Rs1,000 and some gold ornaments, too.
 
 The city police are groping in the dark about the conman’s identity. At some locations, he has cleverly managed to evade the CCTV cameras. Whenever he was caught on CCTV, his black helmet worked like a mask to conceal his face. 
 
 When three shop owners fell prey to his trick in the Camp area, the Cantonment police launched an awareness campaign among the traders. “We have distributed pamphlets to the shop owners in Camp and requested them to remain alert,” said inspector Vaishali Chandgude of the Cantonment police station.
 
 He said the police had mentioned the modus operandi of the suspect, his description (specifically the helmet), his preferred timings, and the colour and make of his motorcycle. “We have told the shop owners to contact the police immediately if they come across such a person,” Chandgude said.
 
 An officer from the crime branch said the department was probing the cases, too.
 
 The officer said the police had started collecting information from conmen with prior records. “We have a list of them with us and have started questioning them,” he said.
 
 Latest incident
 
 Sub-inspector Harshal Kadam of the Bibvewadi police station said the suspect went to the bank at Dhankawadi as soon as the bank’s working hours started around 9.30am on Monday. He told the cashier, Komal Chhajed, that he needed a Rs2,000 note with the serial number 11 for a puja at home. 
 
 “The suspect wearing a helmet gave 20 notes of Rs100 denomination to Chhajed. He told her to give him the bundle of the notes so that he could find a note with the number 11,” Kadam said.
 
 Kadam said he pretended to check the notes and told her that he got the note and left the bank. “When Chhajed checked the bundle, she found 22 notes of Rs2,000 missing. She raised an alarm, but by then the suspect had escaped,” Kadam said. 
 
 “We are checking the CCTV footage to trace the suspect,” he added.
 
