HYDERABAD:  , winners of the National Finals of  's Five, will get a chance to showcase their skills in the World Final, which kicks off in Praia Grande, Brazil, from Friday.

 Fifty-three National champions will vie for honours with the best 32 making it through to the knockout stages on Saturday (July 8). Thereafter, a series of matches will whittle the teams down to two, who will battle it out in the final match. The 100,000-plus players who have featured in the second edition of the competition is a sharp increase from the 65,000 who played in the first year.
 
 "The format for Neymar Jr's Five is a lot of fun. The rules make it a lot more fun and competitive - you lose your game for a minute and bam, you lose a player. Properties such as this motivate Indian footballers like us to work hard, to achieve opportunities to represent their own country, which is always a very proud moment. We are looking forward to represent our country in Brazil," a release from the Hyderabad Sporting FC said.
 
 Neymar Jr, the superstar of football, will be back to crown the new world champions in his signature five-a-side football tournament Neymar Jr's Five organized by   - and give the winners the thrill of a lifetime. For the winners, the icing on the cake will be the chance to play against a team led by Neymar Jr in the town where he grew up.
 
 For the champion footballer, the highlight of the competition has been seeing so many people from so many different backgrounds playing the game around the world on every imaginable surface, in all weathers, and with a unique sense of fun.
 
 "Nobody expected so many players from so many different countries and I'm delighted to see people playing the game the way it should be played - together, in friendship, and with a great sense of fun," said Neymar Jr, who is preparing for another crucial season with Barcelona and Brazil - the finals of the 2018 World Cup now less than a year away. "This is football the way I grew up playing it and I hope the numbers just get bigger and bigger," he said in a release.
 
 The teams will be dreaming of following in the footsteps of Anjos da Bola (Angels of the Ball) - the Brazilian team who sealed victory in the final of the first edition in 2016. They were not only rewarded with a game against Neymar Jr and friends, but with a trip to see   in action in the Camp Nou and time alongside their hero at the Catalan club's training ground.
 
