PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Intermittent to heavy rainfall over the past few days has led to the development of potholes on many roads, posing a nightmare for motorists.

 The potholes have exposed the shoddy road construction work by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).
 
 The rains have created potholes and washed away top layer of the tarred road in and near the railway underbridge on Sai chowk­Pune-Mumbai highway road in Pimpri. Potholes have developed on River Road in Pimpri camp. There are potholes at Dange chowk on   BRT road, Santoshimata chowk to Annasaheb Magar stadium road in Nehrunagar area of Pimpri.
 
 Raju Savale, a social activist from Sangvi, said, “The 1km stretch on 18-metre DP Road from Shitolenagar to Dutt Ashram in Old Sangvi is heavily potholed, causing hardship to motorists and vehicles passing through it. Apart from development of potholes, the top layer of tarred road on both sides of DapodiOld Sangvi bridge near Vasantdada Patil chowk has been washed away .“
 
 Sachin Londhe, secretary , Nandan Inspira Housing Society, Wakad, said, “The stretch of Mankar Chowk-Kalewadi Phata Chowk Road in Kaspatevasti is heavily potholed and needs to be tarred urgently.“
 
 Ramesh Deo, an activist, said, “The road was tarred at Chapekar Chowk one week ago, but it has developed many potholes due to rains. The scenario is similar at Gandhi Peth, Bhoir lane and the new bus terminus chowk at Chinchwadgaon.“
 
 William Naidu, a senior citizen and activist from Akurdi, said, “There is waterlogging and potholes on Spine Road ne ar the vegetable market at Sane Chowk and Morevasti in Chikhli. Roads are bad in Walhekarwadi area of Chinchwad too. Road digging is in progress on Bhumkar ChowkAditya   Road, leaving only one lane open for vehicular traffic. There is waterlogging ahead of Birla Hospital, where the Chinchwad flyover begins, and near Kalbhornagar subway on the Pune-Mumbai highway in Akurdi.“
 
 Shirish Poredi, spokesperson, engineering department, PCMC, told TOI, “The civic body is repairing potholes by tarring them, but the road needs to be dry as molten tar cannot be used on a wet surface. Intermittent spells of rain over the past few days have been hindering our work. As a result, we are filling up the potholes with murum (coarse soil). We are also repairing the potholes using cold mix method wherein we get lumps in sacks that is spread over the pothole and pressed by road roller.“
 
 Seema Savale, chairperson,  , PCMC, at a meeting on Wednesday had directed the civic engineering department to implement pilot projects using various machines to repair potholes so that a good machine could be identified for quick repair of potholes.
 
 Reacting to it, Poredi said, “We have tested some machines for pothole repairs. But they can repair only two to three potholes per day , whereas we need a machine, which can repair 30 potholes a day .“
 
