NAGPUR: Three minors, including two siblings, were rescued by district child protection officer (DCPO)   earlier this week from an ashram at Dewalamathi in Wadi, near 8th mile. The children had been ‘offered to serve’ God.

 Though police assisted in the rescue, no offence was registered in the case.
 
 The siblings, Kunika (10) and Kumar (7) (name changed), were handed over to the ashram around nine years ago by their father, a resident of Rajnandgaon in Chattishgarh, after their mother died. Since then, the two were at the ashram. 
 
 12-year-old girl Monica (name changed), who too was rescued, had been left at the ashram by her mother Sunita (name changed) a few months ago as she was in a poor financial state. 
 
 The children were later shifted to a government approved shelter home following an interim order of the child welfare committee (CWC). 
 
 The presence of the children at the ashram had come to fore after Sunita had a change of heart of leaving Monica behind. She wanted Monica back but the ashram management refused to do so. Dejected, Sunita approached district child protection officer Pathan.
 
 Pathan, along with Wadi police, reached the ashram to rescue Monica. Much to their surprise, Monica was not present at the ashram but the siblings were spotted within the premises. Pathan and Wadi cops brought them to the police station.
 
 The statement of one of the ashram’s devotee,   was recorded. She claimed that Monica was away with another devotee by the name of Rajdhar Punjabi. 
 
 Nanda admitted that there was nothing legal to show why the kids were ‘offered’ to God.
 
 The siblings were sent for a medical examination and presented before the CWC which ordered them to be shifted to a government-approved shelter till the family is traced in Chhattisgarh. The ashram management has handed over Monica too to the police. 
 
 Pathan said the children have been enrolled in a government school. “We are searching for their parents,” he added.
 
 City police chief   told TOI that an offence should have been registered in the case. 
 
