NASHIK: An endeavour by the police to make voters aware about the criminal background of candidates failed to make much impact on the outcome of the civic poll results. At least five to six candidates with serious offences registered against them emerged victorious.

 Vishal Sangamnere of the BJP from division 18, who has cases of murder and attempt to murder against him, defeated prominent candidates Ashok Satbhai of   and Rajendra Derle of NCP. Satbhai, however, has cases like cheating and unlawful assembly registered against him.
 
 Another candidate with murder and robbery cases registered against him, Hemant Shetty of the BJP, also won the election by defeating candidates without any criminal record from Shiv Sena, MNS and NCP from his ward in division 4.
 
 Former corporator Sudhakar Badgujar of Shiv Sena, who has eight cases registered against him including two robberies, prevailed over the candidates from the BJP and MNS from ward A of division 25 to win the election. His wife Harsha Badgujar, who is also a former corporator, too emerged victorious from ward B of division 25.
 
 Former mayor Ashok Murtadak of MNS, who has a robbery case against him, won the election from division 6. He defeated candidates like Deepak Pingle of Shiv Sena and Damodar Mankar of BJP.
 
 Former corporator Suryakant Lavte of Shiv Sena, who contested and won the election from division 21, had been booked for wrongful restraint in the past. He defeated candidates from the BJP, MNS and   without any criminal record. 
 
 Yogesh Shivre of MNS, who has a case of robbery against him, also won the election from division 11 by defeating prominent candidates.
 
 Police had prepared a list of 89 candidates who had cases registered against them with the aim to educate voters about the poll contestants’ background.
 
 Some of the candidates with criminal record who lost the elections are Pawan Pawar (Independent-division 18), Ganesh More (MNS-division 28) and Deepak Datir (Shiv Sena-division 28). 
 
 Pawar has two cases of attempt to murder registered against him, More one attempt to murder case and Datir has cases like robbery and attempt to murder.
 
