Trichy: Traders charging in excess of prices marked as MRP on packaged products or selling them in lesser amounts than the specified weight watch out. Consumers can now file their complaints in this regard through a mobile application called 'Legal   Complaint Tracking System (TN-LMCTS). Launched by the State Legal Metrology department under the labour department, complaints received will be attended to in a couple of days, said officials.

 While fleecing by retailers has become the order of the day in bus stands and tourist spots, complaints have been pouring in against the lack of an effective grievance redressal mechanism. The phone number of the inspector of labours has not been displayed in public places and worse, even a google search may not yield it. Consumers say if one does make it to the labour department office to lodge a complaint, he or she has to give it in writing and expect hardly any action. It is this unresponsive grievance redressal mechanism that has been spruced up and made just a click away. 
 
 The simplified mobile application would ask for the basic details of the customer before he or she uploads a complaint in the form of a picture or voice memo. While consumers can file the complaints through TN LMCTS mobile application, “there is a separate application for official concerned,” said Inspector of labours S Sudha.
 
 As soon as a customer files a complaint using the mobile application, it will reach all officials. Though there is no time frame fixed for action on the complaint, Sudha says it will be redressed within a day or two. Pointing out that it is the first-of-its-kind mobile application for consumer redressal, she added that the application would not only make the work easy for consumers but also result in checking malpractices by traders.
 
 “A majority of incidents relating to fleecing goes unreported as the victim finds the process of lodging complaint laborious,” says Saranya Mohan from KK Nagar. Consumers should be made aware about the existence of such an application, she said. The Inspector of Labour said that a short film was in the making to create awareness on the application. Besides, it would also be publicised in public places in the upcoming days. The mobile application was announced over a couple of years ago but had remained on paper for so long.
 
 
