NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made a special mention of Srinagar youth,  , for his cleanliness drive and praised the role of the city municipality for making him brand ambassador of the ' ' (cleanliness campaign). 

 "You will be glad to know that   has made him (18-year-old Dar) their brand ambassador", said Modi in his monthly radio broadcast ' '.
 
 He congratulated the Srinagar Municipal Corporation for taking this initiative towards sanitation and for its imagination to appoint Dar an ambassador for this cause of cleanliness at the time when people or organisation generally think about making a cine artist or a sports-personality a brand ambassador for such cause.
 
 The Prime Minister informed the listeners that Dar got connected to the cleanliness campaign since the age of 12-13 years and has been working for the last 5 to 6 years. 
 
 "He clears plastic, polythene, used bottles, dry or wet waste - every piece of dirt from Aisa's biggest lake near Srinagar. He also earns from this activity. His father had died of cancer at a very young age but he connected his livelihood with cleanliness", said Modi.
 
 Congratulating Dar, the Prime Minister said the Srinagar youth was "a source of inspiration for all of us who are interested in cleanliness". 
 Referring to the role Srinagar Municipal Corporation, the Prime Minister said, "Srinagar is a tourist destination and every Indian wants to go there. If such attention is given to cleanliness, it is a very big achievement in itself. 
 
 "I am glad that they have not only appointed Bilal as their ambassador but also given him a vehicle and a uniform. He (Bilal Dar) goes to other areas and educates people about cleanliness and inspires them and keeps tracking them till results are achieved".
 
 Modi also recalled mentioning about a retired teacher from Maharashtra, Chandrakant Kulkarni, in his earlier 'Mann Ki Baat'. He said Kulkarni had donated 51 post-dated cheques of Rs 5,000/- each for the cleanliness drive out of his total monthly pension of Rs. 16,000.
 
 "I saw that a lot many people came forward to donate for this cause", said Modi.
 
 
