KOLHAPUR: City-based education activists have alleged the government has failed to take care of issues being faced by the primary education sector in the   presented on Wednesday. 

 Activists said there are issues plaguing the primary education sector and lack of concrete steps from the Union government is not helping. Sattappa Mohite, education activist who works with the city-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Avani, said, "The   (SSA) and the Right to education (RTE) need to be given its share of importance, which is lacking in the budget this year."
 
 Mohite added that for encouraging schooling in the rural and remote areas and bringing the out-of-school children into mainstream education, the government needs to take important steps.
 
 "There are schools across the country, lacking proper drinking water facility and separate toilet facilities for girls and boys. There are schools with no classrooms. We cannot just announce lucrative statements. The primary education is the base of higher education and there is nothing for it in the budget which is very disappointing," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, experts in the city said the decision to set up separate entrance exam body - National Testing Agency - will streamline the examination process.
 
 Amit Vaidya, district president of   (ABVP), said, "Monitoring of entrance examination dates will make things simple not only for the officials involved in the process, but also for students and their parents. Given the recent experiences where engineering and medical entrance examinations dates were clashing, there was an urgent need of streamlining the process and hopefully this decision will help."
 
 On other announcements such as skill India expansion, Vaidya said the government needs to understand that it has to go beyond imparting skilled education to the students.
 
 Krantikumar Patil, president of Shivaji University Principals Association (SUPA), said for the sake of upgrading the education system streamlining the examination process is quite necessary at the moment.
 
