Playing a girl from Allahabad in her latest show 'Iss  ? Season 3', actor   says she's read up a lot about the holy city to portray her character. "I haven't taken any kind of training to play a girl from Allahabad but I have read about the city to get a feel of it. I am aware that people from Allahabad have a very typical way of speaking and I know the lehza that they use there. I am from Delhi so I do know how to speak thoda tameez se and tehzeeb se, so that has helped me in portraying this character. Plus, I have observed people from Allahabad and noticed the way they always use the word 'hum'. Woh kabhi 'main' nahi bolte hain. So yeah, I have observed a few such things to prep for my role," says Shivani who was in Lucknow on Friday to promote her show. She further adds, "I have heard a lot about Allahabad. A lot of good things and I would love to visit it someday. I am loving playing an Allahabadi in my show."

  
  Shivani Tomar posed exclusively for us at the   in  , Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui)
 
 Telling us about her show, Shivani says, "You can see from my attire that I am supposed to belong to a very traditional family of Allahabad. I learnt how to speak Sanskrit for the show for which I read up on the scriptures and Bhagwad Gita. It’s a tough role to play but I am enjoying myself. Besides Barun (Sobti, the male lead of the show) and I have worked together earlier so we share a good rapport."
 Wanting to see a bit more of Lucknow on this short visit of hers, Shivani went to the Lohia Park in Gomti Nagar and fell in love with the place. "Yeh kitna sundar hai!" she exclaimed as she saw the lush green trees and sprawling gardens. "Mumbai mein toh aisa park dekhne ko hi nahi milta hai. This place is awesome." The pretty actor was even more excited to see the ducks at the park and ran around chasing them and playing with them. "Yeh kitni cute hain," she said, adding, "I have never seen a duck from so close up before. I wish I could spend the entire day here, this place is so beautiful." 
 
  -- Prachi Arya
 
