NEW DELHI: The   is likely to deliver its judgement in   involving late former chief minister of Tamil Nadu J Jayalalithaa and her confidante VK   by next week. The verdict will be pronounced by a division bench comprising Justices P C Ghose and Amitava Roy.

 On June 7, 2016, the apex court had reserved its verdict on the Jayalalithaa's decade old case for three months. 
 
 
  
 On Monday, Senior Counsel Dushyant Dave who argued for Karnataka government reminded the bench about the verdict calling it as an "unpleasant duty of the counsel."
 
 "It is his unpleasant duty to remind the bench about the verdict that was reserved over three months back would be pronounced," Dave said.
 
  
  
 This comes in wake of the 
  of Tamil Nadu this week.62-year-old Sasikala was on Sunday elected as the AIADMK Legislature Party leader.
 
  
  
 
 With 
  as well as the members of her extended family, legal observers wonder if it would be prudent on her part to take over as chief minister now. Key members of her family include Sasikala's husband M Natarajan, nephews TTV Dinakaran and V N Sudhagaran, her brother Divakaran, and her deceased brother's wife J Ilavarasi. There are next-gen persons, too, like Jaya Anand from Divakaran's family and Vivek from Ilavarasi's family who don't face any cases.
 
 Sasikala's tryst with judicial proceedings started with that of Jayalalithaa, in 1996. Jayalalithaa suffered four convictions but wriggled out of all cases but one the Rs 66.65 crore disproportionate assets case.
 
 Except the Pleasant Stay Hotels case, Sasikala was convicted in all other three cases along with Jayalalithaa. And the biggest test of all is the disproportionate assets case, the verdict of which has been pending before the Supreme Court since last June. It will be out any time, at least not later than May 2017, as one of the two judges is scheduled to retire by then.
 
 Last week, 
  in at least four Enforcement Directorate-investigated cases, thereby exposing her to trial in all these cases. There is already an appeal by the ED pending in the Supreme Court relating to her non-appearance after ED summons in a FERA violations case.
 
 Her husband is still 
  nearly 20 years ago. There were two parallel proceedings by the CBI and the ED.While he was convicted in the CBI case, and the appeal is pending in the high court, the ED proceedings have picked up momentum now before an economic offences court at Egmore in Chennai.
 
 Sasikala's nephew TTV Dinakaran is facing the ED fine of 28 crore imposed on him for FERA violations, which has now been confirmed by Madras high court. Last week the high court revived two more EDprobed JJTV transponderuplinking fee cases against the former MP .
 
 V N Sudhagaran and J Ilavarasi are co-accused in the Rs 66-65-crore disproportionate assets case, the verdict of which is perhaps the most awaited politico-legal development in Tamil Nadu. Divakaran is facing at least two land grab cases, both registered by the Jayalaltihaa government in 2012.
 
 
