NEW DELHI: Surviving the blaze that destroyed their house on April 12 is little consolation for the hundreds of jhuggi-dwellers in  . In the two weeks after that, a new born baby has already succumbed to heat and many others have been felled by heat stroke and dehydration. 

 Shabnam, a resident of Block G, only had a tin sheet to protect herself from the scorching sun while delivering the baby. “It did not help. My child died within 15 hours of coming into this world,” said the father, Afzal Ahmad. He works as a labourer.
 
 The fire killed a two-and-a-half-year-old boy, Mohammad Faiz, and another man. “Faiz was sleeping in the   when the fire broke out,” said his father, Mohammad Nara. CM Arvind Kejriwal had visited the family and promised support. Around 800 jhuggis were gutted in the fire and 3,000 people were left under the sun in soaring temperatures. Now, every family has at least one person suffering from fever or extreme weakness because of the heat. 
 
 Suffering from severe dehydration, Prem Mati (62) is worried about her 30-year-old son, Bunty, who was injured while trying to take out valuables from their jhuggi. “He was not taken to the hospital on time because of which his injuries aggravated. He still hasn’t healed,” said Mati.
 
 Champa Devi was fast asleep when the blaze broke out. Luckily, some people spotted her and dragged her out in time. Another woman who lost her home was Angoori Devi. She also lost her pension certificate, which means she won’t be able to avail her pension any time soon. The area saw a bigger fire in 2013, which killed Saroj Devi’s husband. This time, the fire burned all the clothes and jewellery she had bought for her son’s wedding. 
 
 Residents alleged that there are not getting any help from the authorities. “The officers gave us food twice a day for the first 10 days, that too insufficient and unpalatable. We did not even get any tents,” said Titu, a Block G resident. The mobile toilet van that was installed a day after the fire has also vanished and there is barely any water supply. The affected people have been running between the SDM Narela office and other local offices. 
 
 While director of NGO Hazard Centre, Dunu Roy, said around 800 jhuggis were burnt in the fire, but SDM Narela Sachin Rana said only 300 families reside in the area. The government has not included people in the list of beneficiaries who lost their identity cards in the fire, most of them lived in Block G. “Compensation of Rs 25,000 each has been given to 200 families. Around 120 more families will get it,” said Rana, claiming that the authorities gave food, tents and medical services to the affected families. However, locals claimed only Block F was given the benefits and Block G was neglected.
 
