BAREILLY: While parties like   and Congress are busy finalising their candidates and BJP dealing with rebellion over ticket distribution,   has moved ahead with plans to formally launch its poll campaign. Party head   will hold her first poll rally in Meerut on February 1. Thereafter, she will address election rallies in Bareilly and Pilibhit on February 4. The party was the first to announce its candidates for the assembly polls.
 
  Party sources here said BSP’s rally will be organized in Tulsi Nagar at the same ground where Mayawati held a rally while campaigning for the 2012 election. After Bareilly rally, Mayawati will address two rallies in Bundelkhand region on February 8 in Badaun and Shahjahanpur districts.
  
  BSP’s west UP in charge, Atar Singh Rao, told TOI over the phone, “We had started work on the ground level two years ago, being the first with candidates’ list and now, being the first to roll out a campaign schedule starting February 1. After Meerut, on February 2 and 3, Behenji will address rallies in Bulandshahr and Muzaffarnagar, respectively.”
  
  This time round, Mayawati is pitching for votes from both Dalits and Muslims. Pointing out that both communities were targeted by Narendra Modi government at the Centre, she has been saying they should not be swayed by BJP. BSP is also expected to take full advantage of SP’s family feud as she has been telling Muslims not to waste their vote on SP, recalling communal riots during the Akhilesh Yadav government’s regime. At the same time, BSP itself has fielded two riot accused in Muzaffarnagar — Noor Salimr Rana and   — and another riot accused, Kadir Rana’s wife Syeda Begum, in the riot-hit district.
  
  BSP has been preparing for the elections for quite some time. Long before announcment of poll dates, party had already identified most of its candidates, and released its list once the   announced the dates.
  
  On asking how much the SP-Congress alliance will hit BSP, Rao responded, “Our candidates have been active in the field for months. Undoubtedly, we are way ahead SP and BJP in poll preparations. Now, SP has taken support of such a party that is already on ventilator support for survival. It shows their nervousness. SP leaders have already understood that they are now nowhere in the state.”
  
  On the preparation of Mayawati’s rally, Vijay Pal Singh, BSP candidate from Faridpur constituency, said, “We have around 300 villages in each assembly constituency. More than 15,000 villagers from each constituency will be taken to Bareilly on February 4. We have visited these villages and are also organizing meetings after dividing a constituency in 10 parts. Unlike other parties which are dealing with rebellions over ticket distribution, we don’t have a single voice of complaint even after distributing all the tickets.”
