NEW DELHI:  's strong defence of being a political dynast, and seeming comfort with what he earlier saw as an insinuation, marks a shift in his position on an issue that rivals have used to beat him with for over a decade.

 At the University of California, Berkeley, brushing off a remark about being a dynast, Rahul cited examples from other political parties and the business world to say that 
  . He added that the key criterion for a political person was competence, not the family they belonged to.
 
 Rahul seems to have come a long way from his early days, when the mere mention of dynasty or family politics would push him into a defensive shell and long explanation.
 
 At one point, Rahul had taken to arguing that while he could not help being a dynast, he was trying to create a system where merit would trump such criteria. The plan behind the 'democratisation' of Congress's youth outfits -election of officebearers in   and Youth Congress -was driven by the idea that merit and skills should decide a leader.
 
 However, with time, Rahul seems to have reconciled to the fact that dynasties cannot be wished away, surrounded as he is in the   by colleagues who hail from old Congress families.
 
 BJP, especially since the advent of   and Amit Shah, has used the 
  and Congress's first family . However, Rahul must be hoping that taking such attacks in his stride may take the sting out of them and end up discouraging rivals.
 
 One big evidence of his new-found comfort with his description as a dynast was his rare statement that he was ready to take over the reins of Congress, and the indication that he was willing to be his party's PM candidate.
 
 Rahul's acceptance to be projected as the PM candidate may be a result of the fact that there are no serious challengers for the slot after the exit of Bihar CM   from the opposition camp. The JD(U) chief was widely seen as a viable competitor to PM Narendra Modi in 2019, but his return to the saffron alliance has created a vacuum in the opposition.
 
