PUNE: Candidates contesting the civic elections may have adopted newer technology and   to reach out to voters but the three-wheeler autorickshaws are yet to lose their charm and continue to be a preferred choice among aspirants.

 A significant numbers of autorickshaws have hit city roads and, with just four days left before the campaign winds down, more vehicles are expected to be added soon enough. At the end of each busy day, an autorickshaw driver earns around Rs1,000. 
 
 30-year-old Vijay Shelke is among many autorickshaw drivers, who have busy schedules these days. Banners, posters and party flags cover three sides of the rickshaw while a CD-player connected to fairly large speakers blares information as Shelke drives his autorickshaw through residential areas, key chowks, prominent streets and housing societies, campaigning for a candidate through the day.
 
 Shelke says that he covers fixed routes. The trip starts in the morning and ends around 6pm. “The candidate for whom I campaign has taken care of my daily meals as well as offers a fixed amount per day, until the end of the campaign. Party workers travel along in the autorickshaw to distribute pamphlets and handbills to citizens,” he explained.
 
 Another auto-driver Sanjay Paigude is also on “poll duty” for a candidate from the Pune station area. Paigude said that he covers about 10 to 20km in a day with halts at prominent chowks, residential areas and interior roads. 
 
 Ashok Patwardhan, a senior citizen, pointed out that the autorickshaws have always a preferred vehicle to campaign for elections in the city. “Earlier, poll campaigns would have huge rallies of autorickshaws. Party workers used to campaign in autorickshaws appealing for votes for their candidates. The practice continues,” Patwardhan said.
 
 Rahul Ranapise,   worker from Shivajinagar area, said that the autorickshaw has proved to be an effective way to reach to maximum voters in less time. “Moreover, since the boundaries of panels have expanded, it isn’t possible for every candidate to tour the entire panel area for door-to-door campaign. Autorickshaws can cover more areas in a day and are more effective,” Ranapise said.
 
 Authorities from the regional transport office (RTO) said that so far they have issued permissions to over 600 autorickshaws to be used for the election campaign. Officials claimed that of the total applications received from vehicle owners so far, the highest have been for autorickshaws.
 
 The officials also stated that they are monitoring the vehicles being used to campaign. Any alterations to vehicles are not allowed. Besides, political parties have been asked not to park their campaign vehicles on roads in a way that may cause disruption to vehicular traffic.
 
