Panaji:   tells the story of the opening few days of the National Football Championship for the   in 1990.
 
  It was only the second time that Goa were hosting the prestigious tournament and given Goa’s bitter exit at the hands of   in 1972 when hosting Santosh Trophy for the first time, there was considerable pressure to deliver at home. Bruno was the captain but even for a 20-year-old with as much talent as this diminutive striker, it was difficult to handle.
  
  “I don’t think losing was an option. Everyone wanted us to become champions,” said Bruno, arguably Goa’s greatest ever striker.
  
  Goa, though, weren’t performing up to expectations; the hosts lost to Kerala in a group clash and needed Roy Barreto’s hat-trick in a crucial quarterfinal league to push through. Bruno himself was having a torrid time on the field and soon relinquished his captaincy for the greater good of the team.
  
  “Prior to the advent of the National Football League and  , Santosh Trophy was the biggest trophy on offer in Indian football. I remember that year (in 1990) the   (AIFF) experimented with an under-23 format. But there was no escaping the pressure.
  
  “Fans came over wherever we went and demanded the trophy and in the days leading to the final, the pressure was unbelievable. Somehow, I knew we wouldn’t falter. With a team like the one we had, we couldn’t disappoint our fans at home,” said Bruno, a former India captain and Arjuna awardee.
  
  As it turned out, Bruno scored the opening goal against Kerala in the final and Thomas Kushboo settled the matter in the second session, leading to wild and frenzied celebrations in the stands. An estimated 24,000 had packed the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, occupying every available space, even though it rained heavily that evening.
  
  “I remember it was raining heavily the previous night and even on the morning of the match but the stadium was still packed. Fans didn’t want to give the final a miss and, despite all the pressure, we didn’t disappoint any of them,” said Bruno.
  
  Goa now has a chance to provide more joy to its fans, bereft of any for some time now. In fact, the last few months have been the most testing for fans of the beautiful game in Goa with legendary teams -- Sporting Clube de Goa, Salgaocar FC and Dempo Sports Club - disbanding their senior teams and opting out of the I-League, while FC Goa – who can connect with the fans like nothing else – could only finish at the bottom in the Indian Super League.
  
  “You may feel the Santosh Trophy has lost its relevance but for Goa it can (still) provide plenty of joy. Goa cannot afford to let go of this opportunity, especially when playing at home,” said Bruno.
  
  Maybe unlike 1990, 24,000 won’t turn up to watch Goa play the Santosh Trophy final at home, even if it’s a mouth-watering clash against arch-rivals Bengal on Sunday. Times have changed, and so has the venue; the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim can seat only 5,000 but whoever finds place can be guaranteed a roller-coaster ride.
  
  
  
