KOLKATA: In an unprecedented move to address grievances against private hospitals, the state is set to make provisions so that the clinical establishments can’t force patients or their relatives for payment. It has also sought to relax penalty provisions against patient parties charged with ransacking   premises. Hospitals will have to plead their case to the proposed health regulatory commission, which will decide if the establishment can seek police action. The clinical establishments, however, are alarmed as they fear it could affect the security of doctors and nurses.

 The bill to set up the   will be placed in the assembly on March 3.
 
 In the amendment to the existing Clinical Establishment Act, 2010, there is a section specifying the obligations, rights and duties of the patient party. The state is likely to “bring about a more balanced patient-hospital relationship by making the rights and obligations of both parties more equitable through a further amendment to the existing act”.
 
 In the previous act, clinical establishments had the power to forfeit the rights conferred to the patients if they failed to fulfil their obligations (financial liability). This clause is likely to be abolished in the amendment.
 
 This, according to the clinical establishments, was one of the main grounds of dispute with the patient party. If this is abolished, then the establishments will be compelled to provide services on humanitarian grounds without considering whether the person is capable of fulfilling the financial obligation.
 
 There is another clause where the clinical establishment can take action against the patient party in case of damage to property under the Prevention of Violence and Damage of Property Act, 2009. In the amendment, this is being relaxed and the hospitals will now have to plead before the commission for compensation and the panel will decide whether the accused is punishable.
 
 “This means patients will now dictate terms, which is dangerous. After all, we are a private, profit-making body and have our own rules. This will adversely affect the whole private healthcare sector,” said a private hospital official.
 
 
