

 This celebration of the New Year coincides with the use of the current international and the world’s most widely used  , the Gregorian calendar, which was first proposed by Italian doctor Aloysius Lilius and decreed on February 24, 1582, by Pope Gregory XIII, after whom it is named. It was adopted to rectify the errors in the older Julian calendar. However, due to its obvious Christian connotations, it’s sometimes used by replacing the traditional era notations ‘AD’ and ‘BC’ (Anno Domini and Before Christ) with ‘CE’ and ‘BCE’ (Common Era and Before Common Era), respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 Julius Caesar introduced the Julian calendar in 45BC. It was a reform of the Roman calendar and probably designed to approximate the tropical year, or the time taken by the sun, as seen from the Earth, to return to the same position along its path. It has a regular year of 365 days divided into 12 months, and a leap day is added to February every four years. Hence the Julian year is on average 365.25 days. It was in common use in Europe until the 1500s, when countries in that region started shifting to the Gregorian calendar. 
 
 
 
 
 Pope Gregory XIII decreed that 10 days should be dropped from October 1582 so that October 15 should follow immediately after October 4 of that year. Most Catholic countries, including Spain, Portugal and most of Italy, soon adopted it. But Protestants were a bit reluctant. The British Empire and Sweden adopted it in 1752 and 1753, respectively. Russia, however, remained on the Julian calendar until after the 1917 Russian Revolution (which is thus called the “October Revolution” though it occurred in Gregorian November), and Greece until 1923. 
 
 
 
 The Hijri calendar is used to determine the proper Islamic holy days. It is a lunar calendar with 354 days and hence a year is about 11 days shorter than the solar year. As a result, Islamic holy days, although celebrated on fixed dates in their own calendar, usually shift 11 days each year in the Gregorian year. Similarly, the Saka calendar, which is a lunisolar calendar, is the official calendar of India. Together with the Gregorian calendar, it’s used in The Gazette of India and communications issued by the government. Its year ‘0’ starts in 78CE. To determine leap years, add 78 to the Saka year — if the result is a leap year in the Gregorian calendar, then the Saka year is also a leap year. Similarly, the Persian calendar is used in   and Afghanistan. The Chinese, Hebrew and Hindu calendars are widely used for religious and/or social purposes. The 2009 Hollywood movie ‘2012’, depicting catastrophic events in 2012, was based on the belief of apocalypse in December 2012, which is said to be the end date of the 5,000-year-old Mayan Long Count calendar.
 
 
