PUNE: As many as 544 highend   are to be installed in 18 of the 71   in the Pune division of the   under the  , claimed officials.

 The Indian Railways has decided to install nearly 19,000 cameras at 983 stations.Rs 500 crore has approved from the Nirbhaya Fund for the project and a requisition regarding the same has also been submitted to the railway board. The installation process could be completed in three months.
 
 “We have been studying the need for the cameras for a while now and the divisional railway manager of Pune, B.K. Dadabhoy , has shown a lot of interest in the project.Studies were conducted regarding the best possible options in terms of the available technology and a requisition based on it has been sent to the railway board for an approval“, claimed D. Vikas, the divisional security commissioner of Pune. “With these cameras being installed in different stations,“ he opined, “officials will be able to keep an eye on all kinds of activities and developments taking place within and outside the railway station premises“.
 
 The Nirbhaya Fund was created by the Centre to support initiatives taken by the government and non-governmental organizations to ensure protection and safety of women.
 
 According to another official, “the Pune division has not witnessed heinous crimes against women although there have been cases of eve teasing and abuse. Such incidents have been reported in local trains and suburban stations. While members of the RPF and the GRP keep a close watch, these CCTV cameras will be useful. With the cameras loaded with features that include capturing clear pictures even during the night time, the process of identification process will get easier. One can also keep an eye on the platforms, monitor activities and act immediately if there is a problem“.
 
 In 2013, the Pune division had launched a 24-hour helpline service (9503013705) especially for women travelling in trains. Female passengers could call on the number if they sensed trouble. Appropriate measure wo uld be taken accordingly .
 
 “The issue with the earlier number was that the complainant had to provide her location which consumed time.Now, a new number, 182, is in use. The advantage is that the location can be tracked automatically and this makes things work faster,“ added the official.
 
 In addition to the existing procurement plan under the  , 30 more cameras are being acquired as a part of the integrated security system plan that has been proposed for two stations, namely , Kolhapur and Shivajin
 
