New  : Rahul Srivastav is all fired up. “I had always wanted to get my son trained in shooting but couldn’t afford it. I didn’t want to let go of this chance.” The government servant is in the leafy environs of the Karni Singh   in  , having driven there with his son Sanjay, a Class X student, from Rohini. The duo have finally got the opportunity to try their hand at the sports that has bred international successes like Abhinav Bindra and Gagan Narang because the union sports ministry has now thrown open the facility to the public.

 As union ministers Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, an Olympics silver medal winner, and Vijay Goel sighted through the pistol sights and squeezed the trigger to inaugurate the Come and Play Scheme on Thursday, Satyajit Sankirt, administrating official of the range, explained, “Our aim is to inspire children to join the sports. At subsidised rates of Rs 3,000 a month or Rs 200 a day, even beginners will be able to learn shooting at our newly developed 10-metre shooting range.”
 
 From Kirat Singh, a Class VI student of Maxfort School, to a shy housewife from Ansari Nagar who didn’t want to be named because she had sneaked in without informing anyone, the people gathered at the shooting range were thrilled at getting their hands on guns. Not only can commoners now access the range’s facilities, but they can also rent the rifles and pistols required for the sport.
 
 Waseem Mirza, 48, an Okhla resident, testified how fortuitous this was. “I wanted to join the range four months ago, but the cost of rifles deterred me. This announcement is like a dream come true.” A 10-m air pistol costs around Rs 1.25 lakh and a 10-m air rifle, Rs 75,000. An official said, “If people don’t have licensed rifles or pistols, we will rent these to them at a mere Rs 60 per hour. Ammunition too will be available and will cost around Rs 600 for 500 rounds.” 
 
 There will be coaches around to train students in batches of five. “Anyone, however old or young, can come and learn at the 10-m range. After reaching a benchmark, they can proceed to the 25m, 50m or larger ranges,” the official added.
 
 Explaining the thinking behind the Come and Play Scheme, Rathore said, “In India we have a mentality of keeping the Olympic stadiums and such facilities barred from the public. Sports officials worry that they will get ruined if the masses use them. But if common people don’t use them, where will the next Olympians come from?”
 
 The 72-acre shooting facility on the hilly Delhi-Haryana border, named after the last maharaja of Bikaner, was developed for the 1982 Asian Games and revamped for the 2010 Commonwealth Games. It has six different ranges — 10m, 25m, 50m, final range and trap and skeet ranges — and a well-stocked armoury.
 
 
