NEW DELHI: Union minister Arun   filed on Monday a second second civil defamation suit of Rs 10 crore against CM Arvind Kejriwal over objectionable language used by his lawyer   last week.

 Citing cross-examination records on an ongoing defamation suit filed by Jaitley after the CM had accused him of financial irregularities, the fresh suit says Jethmalani called Jaitley a “crook“ and he had instructions on behalf of the CM to say so. “These defamatory statements, ie `crook' and `guilty of crime and crookery', ha ve been made with ulterior motives and are offensive and malicious,“ the suit says. “These have caused permanent harm and disrepute to the plaintiff,“ the suit says.
 
 Seeking damages, the suit accuses Kejriwal of “ma lafide intent to cause fur ther prejudice, damage and loss to the name, reputation and credibility of the plaintiff (Jaitley) by deliberately used the terminology of `crook' against the plaintiff.“ Jaitley, who holds the twin portfolios of finance and defence, filed the fresh suit after Jethmalani used these words during the cross-examination of the union minister on May 15 and May 17 in the ongoing defamation suit he has filed against the   chief and five other party leaders.
 
 Last week, while hearing a related matter, the Delhi high Court too had termed Jethmalani's remarks against Jaitley as “scandalous“. Justice   had said if such remarks were made on Kejriwal's instructions, then he should “first step into the box and make good his allegations“.“If such allegations have been made on instructions of Defendant 1 (Kejriwal), then no point in continuing with cross examination of plaintiff (Jaitley) any more. Let Defendant 1 make good his allegations. Let him step into the box,“ the judge had said.
 
 Jaitley had filed a civil defamation suit earlier seeking Rs 10 crore in damages from Kejriwal and five other AAP leaders -Raghav Chadha, Kumar Vishwas, Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh and Deepak Bajpai -for accusing him of financial irregularities in Delhi and District Cricket Association when he was its president from 2000 to 2013. Jaitley had denied all the allegations levelled against him by the AAP leaders. Besides the civil defamation suit, Jaitley had also filed a criminal defamation case in the trial court against the AAP leaders.
 
 
