BELAGAVI: The   ( ), which once completely ruled the   Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee ( ), put up a poor show with only five of the candidates it supported winning the election. 

 The MES managed to retain power only in Khanapur APMC.
 
 The ruling   won four seats, but managed to garner the necessary support from three candidates who were elected unopposed from Hudali, food processing unit and TAPMC and one candidate elected from merchant segment. The   won in Sambra and Hirebagewadi constituencies. The Congress-backed candidates who won are Sudhir Gadde (Basavana Kudachi segment), Annad Krishna Patil (Kakati), Yuvaraj Kadam (Uchagaon), and Sanjeev Madar (Desur). 
 
 MES-backed candidates Mahesh Juvekar from Yellur, RK Patil from Peeranawadi, Ningappa Jadhav from Belagundi and Tanaji Patil from Kangrali KH segment were elected. BJP candidates Renuka Patil from Hirebagewadi and Lagamappa Nayak from Sambra emerged victorious. Sitting chairman and Congress candidate Shivanagouda Patil, who contested from the Kangrali KH segment, failed to give a tough competition as the winning candidate Tanaji Patil garnered 1,078 votes while the Sriram Sene-backed candidate Chandrakant Konduskar received 1,070 votes. Shivanagouda got only 645 votes.
 
 For the first time, the BJP fielded a woman candidate Renuka Patil, who made entry into the APMC with the active support of MLA Sanjay Patil.
 
 Despite facing the wrath of the farming community in the aftermath of demonetization and cash crunch, the BJP established control over five APMCs in Belagavi district.
 
 The Congress could rule over only two APMCs. 
 
 BJP established its control over the APMCs of Gokak, Soundatti, Chikkodi, Hukkeri and Athani. In Athani, 10 BJP-backed candidates won the election while seven of its contestants emerged victorious in Saundatti. In Chikkodi, the BJP and Congress won seven and five seats, respectively. In Hukkeri, 11 APMC seats were bagged by BJP candidates. Gokak, a Congress stronghold and Jarakiholi family bastion, saw the victory of eight BJP-backed candidates.
 
 Bailhongal APMC, which witnessed the surge of two JD(S)-backed candidates, was hung as five BJP-backed candidates and four Congress-backed contestants won.
 
