NAWADA: After the brewing tension in the town for the last two days, the Ram Navami procession peacefully passed through the main thoroughfares of Nawada on Friday. Leader of opposition in the state legislative assembly Prem Kumar, Union minister and Nawada MP Giriraj Singh, Hisua BJP MLA Anil Singh jointly led the procession amid tight security bundobust.   The huge procession looked like a sea of humanity. While it was a strictly all-men procession, women folk cheered them all the way from the sidewalk and rooftops. Around 5 dozen DJs with loudspeakers blared patriotic songs, punctuating with lusty shouts of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and mildly provocative slogans like ‘doodh mangoge to kheer denge, Kashmir mangoge to chir denge’. Hundreds of swords were menacingly held aloft by the surcharged participants in the procession. Surprisingly, slogans like “Yogi (UP CM) zindabad” were also heard occasionally.    In contrast, the minority community members living in Moglakhar, Mastanganj, Bari Dargah and Ansarnagar kept their doors and windows shut while gun-toting policemen and paramilitary personnel were posted on almost every street and alley of the localities dominated by minority community.    Magadh commissioner Lian Kunga, when asked whether he had ever seen such a huge procession in his career, recalled the one at Hazaribagh where he was the DM in 1993-94. Elsewhere in various blocks, processions were carried out with pomp and show.    Earlier in the day, Giriraj, along with Prem, sat on a dharna at the circuit house while accusing Nawada DM Manoj Kumar of denying him accommodation against the protocol and at the behest of the state government. The DM, however, said Giriraj’s accusations were baseless as a room was already allotted to him. He, however, admitted to the delay in opening of the room. He said as per the protocol, the district welfare officer went to receive the minister on his arrival. Nonetheless, the DM said he would take strict action against the persons concerned for delay in opening the allotted room. Even ADG Gupteshwar Pandey, who was present there, said the nazarath deputy collector (NDC), who looks after the circuit house, should be blamed for the delay in opening the room.