CHENNAI: The   connecting   from the   raised a common question when   showed it before a group of people during a lecture. They wanted to know what was going through the pipe. Even Amarnath, who led the excavations in Keeladi, couldn't give a clear answer. 

 "During the excavations, we found that some storage jars and furnaces are connected with terracotta pipes. It shows that some chemicals had been processed, but we couldn't trace any raw materials at the site. We need to conduct   to know the usage of these   and furnaces," he said.
 
 Drains, ring wells and tank-like structures were other interesting finds, according to Amarnath. "The biggest ring well had 22 rings. This indicates an early settlement. A well-maintained drainage system was in place during that time," said Amarnath, who was speaking on "Keeladi excavations: An overview" at the department of ancient history and archaeology, University of Madras on Wednesday. 
 
 The first phase of excavation was carried out from January to September in 2015 and 59 trenches were dug in the private coconut groves in Keeladi. The second phase began in March 2016 and went on till September. At least 5,800 artefacts including, ivory comb, semi-precious stone ornaments, terracotta peal beads, shell bangles, Brahmi-inscribed pot shreds and copper objects have been unearthed from the trenches in the first two excavations. The third phase is expected to begin in April. Although a lot has been written about the Keeladi excavations, the Brahmi-inscribed pot shreds apparently got attention from heritage enthusiasts and scholars. But for Amarnath, all artefacts are equally important. "All the structures are on north-south orientation. We couldn't find even a single structure facing east. If you want to know why, then we need to study in detail the position of the mount there," he said, adding that Keeladi was the only place where they could find an ivory comb. "This is the first time we found an ivory comb in Tamil Nadu, " he said.
 
 A wide variety of artefacts, dated between 200 BC and 10 AD, have been excavated from the site. "Why the place was ultimately abandoned is still a mystery. There is no sign of any natural calamity or war. Carbon dating on the artefacts excavated from Keeladi will only provide a chronology of human habitation in the region from the Iron age. What we need is a detailed study similar to the one conducted in Harappa," he said. 
 
 
