It was just another sunny Sunday when Mumbai’s   poured out in large numbers to battle it out for the city finals of the  . After two rounds of nail-biting competition, Rishi Puri, Neha Patel and Prabha Kiran Doshi beat 400-odd participants to emerge as the winners in the 13th year of the championship. 

 Rishi (from the experienced category), a 44-year-old HR lead in a share services company, says that ever since he first participated in such an event in 2005, he hasn’t stopped. “I like all kinds of puzzles. Whenever I am free, I spend my time solving them to keep my mind active. Basically, I am a lazy person and don't like moving around,” he says. What makes this year even more special is that the   round saw two enthusiastic homemakers qualify for the national finals, from the inexperienced category. Prabha (45) and Neha (42) started solving Su-doku as a timepass and then took it up full-time. 
 
 Prabha, who has made it to the national finals once before, says that it’s her love for maths that got her into Su-doku. She says, “I love numbers; solving Su-doku not only keeps my mind active, but also keeps me busy through the day, while everyone is away at work.” Neha, a first-timer, couldn’t believe when she heard her name being announced as a winner. She says, “I am overwhelmed. What I started as a mere timepass activity has won me a place among Mumbai’s winners. Every morning, while sipping my cup of tea, I solve the puzzle which comes out in the newspaper. But, making it to the national finals is something I never imagined.”
 
 The event saw participation of enthusiastic puzzlers from the age of 7 to 83 years. Even as the young minds diligently put pen to puzzle papers, they were accompanied by their parents as well as grandparents, who were solving puzzles alongside. One of the oldest participants, 83-year-old Malerao Sikander, says that he started solving puzzles in 2009 and has been a regular at the Mumbai rounds since then. He says, “I have been trying my best to qualify the rounds, but it hasn’t happened yet. However, I haven't lost hope, and I would love to come back the next time.” 
 
 
  
 The youngest participant, Etashi Utkarsh Somaiya (7), who had come along with her father, Utkarsh Somaiya (he made it to the second round, but couldn’t qualify for the national finals) says that it was at the insistence of her mother that she started solving the puzzle. Etashi says, “Mom told me that if I start solving Su-doku, my mind will become sharper. This is the first time I am participating in the championship and if I don’t qualify, I will come back the next year.” 
 
 Sumit Bothra, the host of the championship, was impressed with the new crop of young puzzlers who performed their best at the finals. “The competition is getting tougher each year and there’s no set pattern to solve these puzzles. What makes me happy is that people are coming out in large numbers to participate. It is the perfect way to test a person’s lateral thinking capability based on their speed, accuracy and adaptability.” Sumit also encouraged the participants to join a community of puzzlers in order to help them crack the championship in the coming years. 
 
 The three finalists from Mumbai will now compete with their counterparts from Bengaluru, New Delhi, Chennai and Kolkata. Watch this space to know which four finalists will form the Indian contingent that will compete at the World Su-doku Championship to be held in Bengaluru in October this year. Till then, happy puzzling! 
 
