New  : Chief minister Arvind   on Wednesday wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asking for the corporation elections to be conducted using the   system and, in case the LG holds a different view, to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the issue.

 The AAP convenor, who claimed responsibility for the party’s poor performance in Punjab and Goa assembly elections, said, “I am aware I will be ridiculed for saying this as a sore loser and I know that the results of Punjab and Goa cannot be changed.”
 
 Kejriwal comment about   fraud in Punjab polls comes days after BSP chief Mayawati made the allegation that BJP won UP elections with a resounding majority as the machines were tampered with. AAP won 20 seats in Punjab, coming a distant second behind Congress that finished with 77 seats.
 
 In his letter to the LG, while asking for amendments to be made to existing rules, Kejriwal said, “In the last two days, leaders of many political parties have approached me and demanded that municipal polls be conducted through paper ballot as they do not have faith in EVMs. Out of three major political parties in Delhi, AAP and Congress have demanded this. The demand, therefore, deserves to be accepted.” He added that AAP’s initial analysis into Punjab elections found multiple instances of discrepancy in votes cast and votes registered.
 
 “In the Punjab elections, Congress secured 38.5% votes, SAD and BJP got 30.6% and AAP and LIP 23.9%. The predominant feeling in this election was that the people of Punjab had rejected Akali Dal and the Badal family due to the rampant loot and drug business,” Kejriwal said. “Not a single person expected Akali Dal to get more than 6-7% votes. Their 30.6% vote share is therefore inexplicable. There was a clear sense that AAP would sweep Malwa, Congress would sweep Majha and that there would be a close fight in Doaba. The results belie this perception,” he added.
 
 The AAP convenor gave examples of the findings of a booth-wise analysis undertaken by the party. In Sujanpur Vidhan Sabha, village Akhwana, booth number 73, AAP got three votes, whereas it has seven dedicated volunteers with 17 family members, all of whom claimed to have voted for AAP. Similarly, he pointed out, in Sujanpur Vidhan Sabha, village Gosainpur, the party got two votes and 27 family members of five volunteers are ready to swear on affidavit that they voted for AAP.
 
 “We feel that 25% votes cast for AAP may have been transferred to Akali Dal through EVM tampering. However, paper trail was deployed in 32 places in Punjab and 20 places in UP and we demand that the EC should do a counting of this paper trail. If the results are the same then people will have full faith in the system,” Kejriwal said. 
 
 Reacting to Kejriwal’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “It seems Kejriwal is unable to accept his party’s defeat in Punjab and Goa and is worried of a similar fate in Delhi municipal elections. He is damaging the credibility of the EC as he plans to use the EVM-ballot paper controversy as a face saver after his party’s defeat in municipal polls.”
 
 
