In the wake of the dreadful kidnap and sexual assault of a popular actress in  , actors across the industry are coming forward, showering their support and solidarity to the actress. With #WithYouBraveGirl the posts are protests are spreading across social networking sites.

 
 
  
 
 
 When it hits close to home is when you get shaken up. The unfortunate incident that happened to her could have been you or me. It's only then do we realise our inner strength. My heart is broken just like all of you out there. I salute you my baby doll for your courage. You are not a victim. You are an epitome of bravery in my eyes. To all the media personnels i have only one request. You have the power of the pen, do not misuse it, be responsible.
 I see only one punishment - CASTRATE THOSE BASTARDS
 
 
 
 Absolutely shocked by what a friend has been subjected to, in the last few hours. The already insecure feeling for women here has become multifold. I was assured she is safe and well at home, but the whole thing has been alarming. Firstly the inhuman behaviour of men, regardless of similar wombs from where they came. And then the trauma of fear. Fear for how the helpless situation will be perceived. Fear of how the incident will be projected. And fear for the consequences. Already, "social channels" with zero credibility are running their shows on digital media. Let's not immerse in the incident; look at the issue that needs addressing, the bigger picture.
 
 
 
 You Are More Beautiful Today Than Ever. I know you as a Brave Girl. Yes you are. I respect that you choose to speak about it knowing that TRP mongers will live on this... Nothing will change except for the fact the Everyone will know that you are one brave girl who choose to Fight.
 Police/Government, please find the bastards. Please restore the "Myth" that this is God's Own Country.
 WITH YOU !!!
  
 
 
 I was hesitant to speak out about this incident yesterday out of respect for the victim of this travesty. It's easy to just post something on social media, but I'm afraid it somehow becomes about yourself. This is so much more than all that. It's something that sickens and frightens my core. I take great pride in our state and how safe our society is. Especially how we treat and respect our women. And yesterday it's like that shattered. This is somebody's daughter, somebody's sister somebody's family and someone who has brought to life so many wonderful characters to us film lovers. I wish and pray our superb police force, the Kerala Police catch these spineless cowards hiding behind their masks. Including myself and our industry, I request all our boys and men, young and old to be alert and vigilant. It's equally our responsibility to care
 
 
 Thank you for standing up for each one of us. For having the guts to fight. Thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
 Will stand by you till the end.
 
 
 
 We travel and work across the world in all odd hours ...New film unit almost every month .. Most of the time we are alone managing our work and life.. But what about our security ?? Who cares ?? Ohh ma'am you travel alone manage your own life .. But we will not change .. We will tease you disrespect you abuse you but you manage your own life.. It's your fault because you want freedom because you want to work hard , because you want to make mark in this world.. Biggest fault is you are a Woman ...Everything starts with vagina and ends with vagina .. Sick dickhead people..
 I lived a reel durga life which was emotionally physically drained me but tomorrow I know they will come for me in real life and soon they will target all the Durga's..
  #itshightime #enoughisenough
 
 
 
 A "MAN" becomes a real MAN when he learns to respect a woman.
 It takes more than the "6 inches" to be a MAN...
 Remember,even u came from the womb of a WOMAN.And its ur duty to acknowledge,admire and appreciate what all she went through....the pain,the suffering ,the agony.....and not to aggravate it.
 I respect and salute her courage.She showed what real "GUTS" is than the chauvinistic bastards.Its our duty to stand beside her, support her rather than throwing stones at her making some baseless allegations.
 And I pity those who try to make some sensational ruthless news value out of it. Remember this can happen to ur mother, sister,wife, daughter or friend.
 Be a MAN... Respect WOMAN!!!
 
 
 
 
 
