Mumbai: Even as the government prepares for its annual budget which is three weeks away,   governor   has warned against squandering macroeconomic stability gains through giveaways and said that high government debt was hurting India’s ratings.

 “It is easy and quick to fritter away gains regarding macroeconomic stability. But hard and slow to regain them,” Patel said at the   in Gandhinagar. He added that while some government guarantees and limited subventions can help, steep interest rate subventions and large credit guarantees impede optimal allocation of funds and increase moral hazard. The governor also pitched for an efficient legal system and a unified authority to improve ease of business, saying tax incentives alone would not be enough to make an international financial services centre ( ), like Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT), a success.
 
 Patel said that despite the progress made in fiscal consolidation, general government deficit (combined borrowing by centre and states) is among the highest in the group of G-20 countries. “In conjunction, the level of our general government debt as a ratio to GDP is cited by some as coming in the way of a credit rating upgrade,” said Patel. “It is important to recognise that its further growth will, inter alia, be predicated on the environment of domestic macro stability that we have achieved along several key areas over the last few years,” he added. 
 
 The governor also called for a direct ‘formulaic’ linkage between interest rates that are currently administered by government and market rates to improve decision making. Currently, small savings schemes form the largest component of administered rate schemes. 
 
 Patel’s comments come in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing interest rate subventions on small home loans and doubling the credit guarantee limit for small businesses to Rs 2 crore. Pointing out that guarantees have limited utility in solving sector issues, Patel said that for small scale enterprises, non-pecuniary and transaction costs related to clearances, inspections and the taxation bureaucracy are more important.
 
 Spelling out the requirements for an IFSC, Patel said there should be a legal structure to support swift resolution of disputes arising from complex international financial contracts. “The existing laws governing financial contracts in India should be reviewed and gaps addressed. Based on the review, a world class legal framework for financial contracts in GIFT could be enabled, either by appropriately amending the existing laws governing financial contracts or enacting a fresh law,” said Patel. Also, a unified financial regulatory authority would aid better regulation and supervision of the financial entities and pay undivided attention to IFSC. “Work on the design of such a framework should begin soon so as to be able to implement this in time,” said Patel.
 
 
