NAGPUR: In the city for the three-day Pt CR  , which he organizes every year in memory of his father, santoor artist Pt Satish   spoke to TOI on why smaller cities were now growing into cultural hubs and how it was helping evolve the scenario both for the audience and the artists.

 Excerpts from the interview...
 
 Q. Do you think music festivals are now getting good footfalls at new destinations too?
 
 A. Definitely. Over the last few years, different places have come up as destinations and an overall interest has been generated. The slew of music reality shows on the visual medium has got people in the remotest areas interested in music. Now people young and old want to be a part of such events. To give an example, a decade or more back people from areas like Kalyan or Thane and places beyond like Solapur and Ratnagiri would be coming to Mumbai to attend classical musical festivals. Today all these places have their own festivals in which artists are going and performing.
 
 Q. Tier-2 cities have become important centres for these events...
 
 A. Firstly, the metros have now got saturated with these events. Secondly, over the last 25 years smaller cities have seen a phenomenal growth in infrastructure. There are now good auditoriums, air connectivity, 5-star hotels in smaller towns too. This has made it easier for organizers to hold events there. Also, today the artists themselves have become organizers and it is easier for them to rope in big names. Cities like Nagpur, Kolhapur, Sawantwadi have a large audience that appreciates classical music. Not many local organizers can afford to invite big names. So it works well when an artist stages a music fest in smaller cities as he provides a platform for both the performing artists and the audience to come together for the cause of arts.
 
 Q. Though there is not much of a surge in younger audience, a lot of fresh talent in terms of musicians is coming up now?
 
 A. Today social media and the visual medium are helping the cause of music. Those who win in reality shows get a good career start and inspire many others to follow them. Parents today are willing to invest money in training for music and a lot of new music academies have come up across the country. Technology has helped budding musicians showcase their talent in the digital domain. All this is very encouraging, especially for the younger generation, and so we are seeing a constant rise in numbers of new and younger artists. But yes, I would agree that the audience at the classical music festivals remains mostly the middle aged and elderly listeners.
 
 Q. You organize festivals at different cities. How do you select artists or decide who is to perform where?
 
 A. As a musician, I attend various cultural festivals at different places and get to hear and discover new and upcoming talent. For events organized by me I need a good mix of established and upcoming artists. I also try to provide a platform to those senior artists who have been heard less by the audience. Like this vocalist   whom I heard in New Jersey in USA. She has immense talent and substance. Besides, sometimes some senior artists also recommend names of upcoming musicians. I also cross check which artist has visited a city how often or has not performed there for quite some time.
 
 Q. A majority of music festivals happens in Maharashtra?
 
 A. I agree. Bengal, Maharashtra and Karnataka are regions where classical music has roots. These are places where maximum artists reside and the traditions of classical music have solid foundations. Delhi is now also emerging as a centre for such events.
 
 Q. Nagpur continues to remain on your list of favourite destinations for a music festival?
 
 A. Yes, I have a sentimental and emotional connect with this city as my father’s last performance was here on Jan 3, 2002. He travelled to Kolkata from here and passed away without giving a performance. Another reason why this city is on my favoured list is the local organization Saptak. A dedicated band of Saptak members help me put up this event. They are low key, honest and hardworking and it is a pleasure to be associated with them.
 
