KOZHIKODE: Serious lapses on the part of the prosecution and the police had led to the acquittal of the accused in   murder case.The case pertains to the  , on September 18.

 The court order slams the police of murder of a Muslim youth on March, 16, 2008 in Kasaragod, allegedly in retaliation to the killing of Hindu youth Sandeep, two days before the incident. Three RSS-BJP workers, who were arrested in connection with the killing, were acquitted by the sessions court, Kasaragod, on September 18. MUHA The court order slams the police of MUR ficers who investigated the case. The LDF was in power when the incident took place and CPM leader   was the home minister. There are allegations that the police in Kasaragod are dancing to the tune of the Sangh Parivar.
 
 The court observed that though the police came to know about the incident by 3pm, the the officers hesitated to register a suo motu case . “There is a police station hardly 500 metres away from the murder spot.But the police waited for the witnesses to come to the station to make a statement at 5pm, by the time it was confirmed that the victim has passed away ,“ the court noted. The court also observed that during most part of the tri al the then circle inspector   was `non-com mittal and indifferent'. The of ficer did not check the vehicle that carried injured Sinan to hospital to find for blood stains and no identification parade was conducted on the accused, the court noted.
 
 The court further pointed out that the officer did not ma ke a record before proceeding to arrest the accused, who were hiding in Mangaluru. The number of the police vehicles sent to the place were not mentio ned in the do out that the officer did not make a record before proceeding to arrest the accused, who were hiding in Mangaluru. The number of the police vehicles sent to the MAD SINAN place were not mentioER CASE ned in the documents submitted before the court.
 
 The motorcycle on which Sinan was travelling when he was waylaid by the assailants was not produced before the court. The blood sample on the vehicle was also not collected. Also, the prosecution failed to establish the common intention of the accused.
 
 The judgement concluded that “...the investigating officer failed in his duty .... PW19 (the then SI of  ) within whose police station limits has to take the blame for not moving fast on receiving information of the stabbing incident...the court finds it unable to do its primary dutyto award punishment to the guilty ."
 
