CHENNAI:   are going through the roof in the city and suburbs with every   nearly Rs 35,000 due to acute shortage of  

 A fortnight ago, the state government took over sand quarries with an aim to reducing prices, but could operate only two. Now, desperate buyers are resorting to blocking loaded lorries on the city outskirts, striking a deal with the drivers and diverting it to construction sites.
 
 Flat Promoters Association Chennai South president   said the cost of river sand had nearly doubled, from Rs 18,000 a truckload in November 2016. “Now, regular buyers get sand mined from riverbeds at Rs 30,000 per load (2.5 units). But, those purchasing from the market shell out anywhere between Rs 35,000 and Rs 40,000," he said.
 
 Those with tight deadlines to meet have little option and are forced to buy sand at the price quoted. The crisis has also led to many people resorting to extreme steps. “Some of them station themselves at vantage points on the outskirts like Tollgate and Vandalur. They identify sand-laden trucks entering the city and negotiate with the drivers for a deal,“ Esakkinathan said.
 
 The situation is a fallout of closure of sand quarries across the state that had dwindled to just two from 38 functional quarries a few months ago. The situation is a fallout of closure of sand quar ries across the state that had dwindled to just two from 38 functional quarries a few months ago. “Tamil Nadu requires 25,000 loads of sand everyday, of which Chennai and peripheries alone account for a minimum of 5,000 loads. However, hardly 1,200 loads are officially delivered from the two sand quarries in Villupuram and Trichy districts," said R Panneerselvam, president of the Federation of   Sand Lorry Owners Coordination.
 
 There is also a bigger racket flourishing, he alleged. The demand for Chennai and surrounding areas is largely catered through sand illegally mined from elsewhere and more than 3,000 loads of sand that arrive in the city are unaccounted for, he charged. While the government sells a load (three units) of sand scooped from quarries for Rs 1,575, the same quantity fetches at least Rs 30,000 on reaching Chennai.
 
  The reason, says Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owner's Federation president S Yuvaraj, is the waiting period for lorries at quarries. “A minimum of 10 days is required to get access to quarries to collect sand after the government took over quarries,“ he said. Only 130 tokens are issued to lorries at quarries daily, he added .
 
 Public Works Department sources claimed lorries were allowed into quarries on a 'first come first serve' basis.“We allow 600 loads everyday," an official said. Even if this is true, it barely meets the needs of Chennai and its neighbourhood. Official sources said they were awaiting clearance for reopening more quarries in Cuddalore and  
 
