CHENNAI: At 16, Tarika, the youngest of four boys, realised she was not like her brothers. She wanted to dress like a girl, and was more comfortable around them and did not like staying in the boys' dormitory of her school. When people raised questions about her effeminate behaviour, it became clear to her that she was different.

 Two years later, in 2013, Tarika, ran away from her home in  , where she felt unaccepted. She arrived in Chennai, where she was adopted by transgender activist  
 
 Now, at 22, Tarika is the   to clear the Class XII examinations, with 537 marks. “When I left my home and came to Chennai, I never imagined that my life would turn out the way it has and I will always be grateful to my mother, Grace for that,“ said Tarika, who passed out of Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Government Girls High School, Ambattur.
 
 “After Grace helped me get an official identification, name change and a sex reassignment surgery, I decided to start life afresh and complete my studies,“ she says.
 
 In their humble abode in Kodambakkam, Grace has created a home for not just Tarika but also for the others from the community she has adopted — Ajitha,  . “I wanted to create a secure social circle for our community and inspire others to do the same. I have been deprived of one myself,“ says 29-year-old Grace, who recently completed her engineering course.
 
 “Initially, it was a struggle for her to get admitted to an all-girls school, which is what I wanted. I hope her achievement serves as an inspiration to all other transgenders who drop out of school.They must know that they can succeed despite all odds,“ she adds.
 
 Unlike many instances where transgenders have dropped out of the system due to discrimination,  . “At first, I was nervous and excited, as I did not know what to expect,“ chuckles Tarika.
 
 “People at school treated me well and included me as one of their own.The faculty has been warm to me; particularly Selvam, my class teacher who always motivated me to perform well,“ she adds.
 
 Tarika now aspires to pursue medicine, something she says would set yet another example to her community. “I want parents of transgender kids to know that if they accept them for who they are and help them get educated, without shunning them, it will empower our community,“ says Tarika.
 
 
 
 
