BHOPAL: The state Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Housing Guarantee Bill — CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s brainchild — that promises every landless person in Madhya Pradesh a plot of land to build a home.

 “Madhya Pradesh will be the first state in the country to enact such a law,” the government claimed. The bill is in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mission for housing for all by 2022, and will be presented in the assembly during the second phase of the Budget session beginning March 20. With 18 months to go for the assembly polls, it could have a significant impact on the ground.
 
 Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, water resources minister and government spokesman Narottam Mishra said, “It is a great day for this government. A historic bill has been ratified by the Cabinet for the benefit of the deprived and homeless, the landless poor of the state. Through the new law, the government will give guarantee to all such persons born in Madhya Pradesh to have a home of their own. The land to make a roof over their head will be given by the government as a guarantee.”
 
 Lakhs of homeless and landless citizens will benefit from the new law, which is likely to be enacted by the end of this month, said the minister. He could not give any details on the exact number of beneficiaries and acquisition of land for distribution. “The   government has provided a wholesome ‘thali’ meal at Rs 5 for the poor. People living below poverty line get wheat, rice and salt at Re 1 per kg. And now the poor will get a plot of land for a home from the government,” he said. 
 
 Asked how much land will be required and how much the scheme will cost, Mishra said, “The finer points of the bill are being worked out. But the state government has a land bank. If we fall short of land for distribution, the government will purchase it.” 
 
 Contrary to claims of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, this is not the first time a state government has taken the initiative to distribute land to the poor in MP. In 2002, as part of then Congress chief minister Digvijaya Singh’s Dalit Agenda, the government decided to distribute its ‘charnoi’ (grazing land) to Dalits and tribals. Huge tracts of government-owned land were distributed a year-and-half before the November 2003 assembly polls. The calculation was to consolidate the 15% Dalit and 21% tribal vote bank for Congress.
 
 When ballot boxes opened, Digvijaya’s caste arithmetic had backfired. Congress lost nearly all 82 tribal and SC reserved assembly seats, and the party shrunk to just 38 MLAs in a House of 230.
 
