Panaji: Paan stains, empty bottles and wrappers strewn and dirty water entering the bus terminus in Panaji after every downpour have turned the city’s prime bus stand into an eyesore.  Adding to the mess are stray animals and birds, who have found a safe haven in the bus terminus, which is crying for attention from Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) authorities.  Despite flooding at the bus terminus becoming an annual feature, KTCL officials only have the building’s erratic construction to blame. “The depot’s base is at a low level compared to the main road. It is a daily problem for us to keep the water out. Pre-monsoon cleaning of gutters and drains is done by the CCP every summer. The water still flows in,” said a KTCL official. “We have 13 sweepers keeping the premises clean. We do whatever is in our capacity to keep it clean with cooperation from the municipality and PWD. We are in dire need of security guards to implement rules and regulations. But citizens also need to behave responsibly,” the official said. While most citizens also stressed on individual responsibility, some talked about sensitizing commuters who use the terminus on a daily basis. Mahaveer Narvekar, who works with a travel-based company, said communication is key to creating awareness. “An NGO with dedicated volunteers should be deployed to talk to people at the bus stand about the importance of cleanliness,” he said. Supriya Jadhav, a hotel management student, said the KTCL authorities should keep a separate team of workers for round-the-clock cleaning of the terminus. “Signages indicating penalty for throwing empty bottles and wrappers should be put up by the government to tackle the problem,” said computer engineering student Raj Desai. The high ceilings of the depot building which are out of reach for the cleaning staff have become home to birds like crows. “An animal NGO must be alerted about the stray dogs, while advice of ornithologists can be sought to deal with the birds,” said commerce student Anuj Bhomkar. “Spitting near columns by pan chewing commuters is also an issue. They must be fined for staining the walls,” he added.