CHANDIGARH: A protest rally organized by the Joint Action Committee of   against   (UGC) witnessed low turn-out of teachers. Only   president and few teachers joined the protest. Employees shouted slogans against   to regularize grants to the university. Non-teaching staff joined in the protest in large numbers and sat on the protest outside the admin block, blocking all traffic and causing inconvenience to commuters. 

 Raising slogans against UGC, Deepak Kaushik said, "The children of the top officials of the   government study here and the University have prestigious alumni. Still then the University is facing the financial crisis. The children of the top officials study here but they do not give us grants."
 
 The issue of the release of a one-time emergency grant of Rs 140 crore also cropped up during the protest. Since nobody knows the status of the grants of Rs 140 crore, Kaushik added that the file had gone to the MHRD but they don't know when would the money come. "It might take two months, so we need a permanent solution of the crisis. The UGC should regularize our grants so that   runs smoothly," added Kaushik. 
 
 PUTA president Promila Pathak said that the university employees continue to remain uncertain every month whether they would get the salaries or not. "This kind of uncertainty should not be there and the university should regularly receive grants," added Pathak. 
 
 It was announced that the protest would continue from 11am to 1pm in front of the administrative block. Further, a candlelight procession will also be organized at 7pm on April 6 on PU campus. 
 
 
 
 The university on Wednesday received additional grant of Rs 21 crore from UGC and Panjab University vice-chancellor Professor Arun Kumar Grover confirmed that the university will disburse salaries of its employees for March on April 1.
 
 Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, newly-elected forest minister and SC/BC welfare, who was at the university during its festival Jhankar, announced a grant of Rs 1 lakh for university students and assured to take university out of the existing financial crunch. Moreover,   spokesperson G S Bali was guest of honour at the event, and will try his best to bring CM Punjab to the university as soon as possible to start campaign against drugs from the university by taking oath.
 
 
 
 Financial needs of the university and its legitimate deficit be met by MHRD-UGC and Punjab government
 
 Requirement for funding pension scheme continue to be met by MHRD as per recommendations of the fact-finding committee set up by MHRD, on recommendations of  , in 2010.
 
 The first installment of grant for 2017-18, be released at the earliest (during April-May, 2017) by UGC so that salaries of PU staff may be paid in time.
 
 It was felt that higher education should not become unaffordable. Basic purpose of public sector institutions is affordable and quality education for all including the weakest, economic and socially marginal sections of society.
 
