GORAKHPUR: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   reached   on Tuesday evening and has been discharging his duties as the “Paathadeeshwar (head priest)“ of the monastery during the festive period of Navratras and Dussehra. Yogi, who is fasting during the nine-day period of Navratras, will stay in Gorakhpur till Saturday , when he will lead a “shobha yatra“ from the monastery to the local Ramlila Ground, following decades-old tradition.

 The chief minister is performing all rituals connected to the 10-day festivities, including puja and havan, in the temple.Along with his priestly duties, Yogi is also giving directions to his ministers and administration through his secretary Ajay Singh, who is accompanying him in Gorakhpur. Yogi has been performing special prayers at his “pooja sthal (place for puja)“ in his residential area in the temple.
 
 On Wednesday evening, Yogi performed Ma Kalratri puja along with a havan. Following the tradition of the Nath cult, he began the puja on the eve of Ashtami (8th day of the Navratras) with Gauri Shankar Pujan, Varun Pujan and Yantra Pujan.After this, he performed puja of several gods and goddesses, whose idols are installed in the temple, including Goddess Durga, Lord Ram, Goddess Sita, Lord Krishna, Gau Mata and Nav Grah, amid the chanting of Vedic mantras.
 
 Yogi, who is also the mahant of the monastery , performed Maha Gauri Pujan on Thursday . After the puja in the morning, he met temple authorities, officials and MLAs in his residential area. “Sharadiya Navratra is a propitious time for `shakti sangrah (accumulating powers).' The way of pujan of Mahakali, Mahalakshmi, Mahasaraswati in `samashti roop,' and of Ashtabhuja Durga in `pratyaksh roop' has been described in the Shastras,“ the chief minister said on the occasion.
 
 On Navami (the ninth day of the Navratras) on Friday , he will perform Kanya Pujan and Batuk Balak Pujan. He will stay upstairs in his residential area in the temple till that day and will only emerge on the day of Dusshera. The traditional yatra on Dusshera is expected to attract large crowds as people of Gorakhpur are excited to see their chief minister leading the procession. When the shobha yatra will reach Mansarovar, Yogi will worship Lord Ram, Goddess Sita, Lord Hanuman and Lord Shiva there, and will then break his fast after offering food to Brahmins, saints and poor people.
 
