NAGPUR: The   ( ) has started creating awareness about vigilance   ‘Citizen on Patrol’ (COP), that was launched by the   (SEC) last month soon after announcement of civic polls across state.

 The civic body has been putting up banners and hoardings as important public notice and urging citizens to download and use the app. On Sunday, TOI spotted one such banner at Samvidhan Square.
 
 Municipal Commissioner Shravan Hardikar, who is the returning officer, told TOI that since canvassing by candidates has just started, it will take time for the app to become popular. “Citizens are mostly unaware about the app. We would be giving wide publicity for it. Camps are have been held at Maharajbagh, Futala and colleges to create awareness among students, youths and senior citizens.”
 
 The application would help citizens report violations of model code, malpractices and any election related issues in real time to the SEC. However, it has not received good response with very less number of downloads. After it’s launch in the second week of January, the app has been downloaded from Google Playstore by only 1,000 users.
 
 Surprisingly, citizens and electoral candidates too are completely clueless about the app. While candidates pleaded ignorance on the basis of their business with campaigning, citizens said they have never heard about COP. Chirag Pugalia, a resident of MB Town, Pardi, said, “I don’t know about it but will check the app. I hope it turns out to be a good tool in voter’s hand.”
 
  candidate from Prabhag 35 Avinash Thakre said, “All candidates are busy with electioneering so may have missed reading about the app news.”
 
 Violations enlisted in the app, that can be reported, include distribution of gifts, money or liquor, use of firearms, misleading announcements, inflammatory speech, misuse of government vehicles, paid news, misuse of social media, use of place of worship, child labour, noise pollution, etc
 
 Hardikar said, “After receiving the complaints, zonal officers would be preparing a report and action would be taken as per provision in law. Time for action will depend on type and nature of the violation. If it is something like distribution of liquor, then it would require immediate action.”
 
 He added, “The main intention of the app is to enable citizens keep a close eye on candidates and political process. As soon as they see something amiss, citizens can take a picture and upload through the app. The identity of the complainant would be kept confidential.” 
 
 
