KOCHI: The locomotive running on coal chugging off from the railway station, the meowing cats and barking dogs...predictably monotonous performances that came one after the other were the takeaway from the festival mimicry stage, though some participants, especially in the Higher Secondary School (Boys) category, tried to save the day.

 “The sound of the trains changed more than four decades ago but many are yet to realize it and keep on repeating the same old sound,“ observed  , well-known mimicry artist who was one among the udges for the events, while announcing the results.
 
 Though the participants in the mimicry for girls tried to bring about some quality in imitating voices, barring a few, they failed to innovate. Most performances revolved around the same old voices of cats and dogs to Sathyan and Sheela. Even those who tried to bring about some changes by using popular voices in the government and railway advertisements failed to maintain quality .
 
 In the competition Binsha M of DHO HSS, Pookkarathara, Malappuram was adjudged first.  , a blind student of Government Model Girls HSS Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram, shared the second position with Athira C V of GGHSS Koyilandy (Kozhikode).
 
 “I have not seen any objects or personalities the voices of which I imitate,“ said Shifna, who suffers from many ailments. This is the third time she has bagged second prize and A-grade in the competition. The ability to listen and mimic the sounds around has helped me challenge the disability, said Shifna.
 
 In the HSS (Boys) category , the participants had good timing, observed the jury. Adarsh M S of TKDM Govt HSS Uliyakovil, Kol lam;   C of Chennamangallur HSS, Kozhikode and Abhiram Suresh O of CBHSS Vallikkunnu, Malappuram clinched the top three positions.
 
 “Only, if they had taken care to do proper rehearsals and keep an eye on the happenings around.
 
 Though there are some exceptions, the overall quality was not very good,“ said  , a mimicry artist and trainer At the end of the day, mimicry performances felt like old wine in new bottle, though some of the participants packaged it well.
 
