NAVI MUMBAI: The Thane sessions court on Thursday sentenced two men to death for gang-raping two women under the CBD Belapur flyover along the   in 2012 and murdering one of them. 

 While the rapists had fled after the crime, thinking that both the women, whom they had slashed and stabbed, were dead, the rape survivor had crawled out of the cavity of the then-under-construction flyover and reported the assault to the police. She turned out to be the key eyewitness in the case; there were 11 witnesses in all.
 
 The sessions judge sentenced   alias John Anthony D'Souza, 29, and Sandip Shirsat alias Raghu Rokda, 25, to death for murder and other charges under the Indian Penal Code.
 
 District government pleader Sangita Phad urged the court to give them capital punishment for the "extreme brutality" they had demonstrated and the "inhuman act" they had committed. 
 
 "Such elements are a menace to society and shouldn't be spared as there is no chance for their reformation," she said.
 
 Both the women victims had severe and deep injuries, inflicted by a knife (carried by Shaikh) and a hexo-blade (carried by Shirsat), the court was told.
 
 Shaikh and Shirsat worked with a caterer at   who also took orders from Navi Mumbai. Since they had access to free liquor at various events, they had turned into alcoholics. On May 9, 2012, the accused lured the ragpickers-aged 20 and 28 years-from a Vashi bus stop on the pretext of giving them a catering job in Belapur.
 
 They then took them under the CBD Belapur flyover, which was then being built, and forced them to consume liquor mixed with cold drinks. They then raped the women at knife-point in a hollow cavity under the flyover.
 
 Fearing that the women may complain to the police, Shaikh slit the elder woman's throat, while Shirsat slashed the younger woman's neck. The two were also stabbed. The accused then left the victims for dead.
 
 But the 20-year-old survivor crawled out of the cavity and was helped by passersby, a watchman and a rickshaw driver to get to hospital and approach the police.
 
 A crime branch team arrested the two accused from Mankhurd on May 14, 2012.
