BENGALURU: The proposal made by chief minister   in his budget speech to increase the retirement age for employees in the private sector from 58 years to 60 received a mixed response from the industry. However, the proposal could be implemented sooner than expected.

 All that the Karnataka labour department is waiting for is a nod from the cabinet. Once the department gets an approval, a notification to increase the retirement age will be issued ­a move that will have considerable repercussions on both employment patterns, and post-retirement benefits offered by private companies.
 
 “We are ready with the draft notification issued five years ago to incorporate the new retirement age for private employees under the Industrial Employment (standing orders) Act, 1946. Once the rule is notified, it will benefit nearly 45 lakh employees,"said Sanjiv Kumar, additional chief secretary, labour department.
 
 However, those employed in the information technology (IT) sector will not benefit from the move. “IT companies enjoy a blanket exemption from the Industrial Employment Act, and other labour legislations,“ Kumar added.
 
 The move will also apply to companies that fall under the Karnataka Factories Act, 1948 and Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1961. “Once the rule is notified, all companies will have to comply with it or face legal action,“ Kumar said.
 
 In fact, this isn't the first time that a proposal to increase retirement age for private sector employees has been made. Kumar said that the department published a draft rules notification in 2009 when the BJP was in power in the state.
 
 However, the Industry Association, and the   had strongly objected to the proposal. They feared that the move could lead to unemployment, and fuel resentment among the younger generation. In a letter to the then secretary, the associations in 2009 contended that the physical and mental capacities of workers decrease after 50, making 58 an ideal age for retirement.
 
 It was a change in the industry's perception of the notification over the years that prompted Congress to revive the notification, along with a need to woo private sector employees with an eye on the 2018 polls.
 
 “The situation in the state has changed drastically over the years. Industries, even those in the IT sector, are struggling to get skilled labour. The skills that the younger generations possess are not meeting the expectations, leaving industries with no choice but to rely on old employees. The government's decision to increase retirement age has become inevitable under the circumstances,“ said MC Dinesh, president, Federation of Kar nataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI).
 
 Karnataka general secretary,   HV Anantha Subbarao welcomed the decision. “When the retirement age for judges is 65, and it ranges between 60 and 62 years for other government employees, why should private employees not have the same benefit?“ he asked.
 
 BJP govt in MP hiked retirement age in 2014
 
 An expert committee constituted by the Centre on pension reforms too recommended a hike in retirement age in the private sector to 60 years. Among the changes that the panel has recommended to the Employees' Pension Scheme-1995 include raising the minimum pension amount to Rs 1,000 from Rs 350-400; increase in the wage ceiling of EPS from Rs 6,500 to Rs 10,000.In 2014, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh increased the retirement age of private employees to 60, which benefitted those working in 10,000 establishments. The Act applies to those companies that employ more than 50 workers, but micro industries are exempted.
 
 Rising life expectancy necessitated decision
 
 It's become quite imminent to increase the retirement age in all sectors given the corresponding rise in life expectancy.The IT industry may be left out, since they enjoy exemption from the labour act. But a final decision will be taken soon in consultation with the CM, and labour minister   | IT-BT MINISTER
 
