NEW DELHI: Last year, a risk assessment carried out on it’s rising crime graph revealed that Uttar Pradesh was at the top among states having the highest number of violent crimes in the country, accounting for almost 13% of all such incidents. It also had the dubious distinction of having the maximum incidence of crimes against women, which in part helped set the poll pitch of the now victorious BJP.

 “Shortage of about 55% of the police manpower, if not immediately addressed, may further worsen the crime scenario in the state,” said a performance audit report tabled by the   dispensation in the assembly in 2016. The challenges before the BJP-led government, which will succeed SP in the state, are enormous, but tackling crime assumes importance considering the “jungle raaj”, as highlighted by the saffron alliance and the promise it has made to rid the state of crimes against women.
 
 The failure of the SP-led   government to effectively tackle the law and order situation has a lot to do with the lack of adequate police manpower per lakh of population in the state and its failure to spend even the budget allocations meant to augment the strength of the force.
 
 The lower budgetary expenditure on the police force also impacted UP police’s modernisation, adversely affecting its mobility and effectiveness.
 
 The outgoing government also failed to implement the Centre-sponsored Crime and   (CCTN) project. It has adversely impacted the state police’s capability in crime investigation and detection.
 
 
 An audit scrutiny of how FIRs have been lodged at different police stations across the state revealed that in majority of cases, police delayed registering FIRs. The scrutiny, which involved 62 cases of trafficking, rape and kidnapping of girls, showed that in most cases, FIRs were lodged after the intervention of courts or senior police officials.
 
 This is despite the fact that rules such as section 97 of the UP police regulation provided that an officer in-charge of apolice station has to register an FIR without delay, even if it appeared untrue, whenever a cognizable offence was reported, orally or in writing.
 
 Despite high incidence of crimes against women, the state has less than 7,500 women police personnel (4.5% of its total police force), something which also indicates the lack of will of the state government to address the problem. The Union home ministry had as early as 2009 recommended that the state should “ensure availability of women police up to 33% of the total force”, according to the review report.
 
