KOLKATA: In recent years, book theft had become a major cause for concern among publishers and vendors participating in the Kolkata  . But that trend seems to be on the wane, going by what vendors at this year’s edition told us. According to them, better infrastructure and CCTV surveillance have a lot to do with the welcome change. 

 “The theft of books has always been one of the biggest headaches for sellers at the fair. In fact, most publishers used to count in a 10-15% loss owing to thefts. But thanks to technology and other factors, thefts have gone down by the half in the past few years,” said Tridib Chatterjee, honorary general secretary, Publishers & Booksellers Guild, Kolkata — the organisers of the fair.
 
 Sources said the number of stolen books has gone down by 50% in the past four-five years. According to Chatterjee, that partly because most major stalls now have CCTV coverage to keep a tight watch on the visitors. “Most of the big stalls have CCTV coverage this year. In fact, since the past two years, all publishers have initiated better measures to fight the problem. More people are being appointed to keep an eye on visitors,” Arun Kumar Saha, stall manager, Arundhati Prakashani, added.
 
 According to Sudhanshu Sil, the manager of the security and safety division of the guild told us that the overseas publishers had initially shown the way by installing CCTV cameras. “The foreign publishers have always had cameras in their stalls, but now, the local publishers are following suit. That’s a good thing. Moreover, there’s no hurdle to doing that. Any publisher can install CCTV if they feel like it, as there’s no need to take any permission.”
 
 Anubrata Pramanik, a regular at the book fair and a member of the guild, said the shift to the   ground has also contributed to the trend. “It’s a larger ground where the stalls are allotted more space, making crowd-control easier. The stalls can now have men keeping a tight watch on each and every visitor,” he added.
 
 As for the measures initiated by the publishers to tackle the problem, Karun Maitra from Puthi Patra told us, “The strategy is straight and simple. We sat together and listed the 10 most popular books. We started keeping just two or three copies of those books on display and keep the rest inside our sale counter, where no outsider is allowed. Now, it’s gets really difficult to pinch a book from a stack that has just three. Moreover, we deploy the best person from the team to keep a watch on that section. This tactic has helped us reduce thefts by 80%.”
