KOCHI: With the e-visa facility being extended to the nationals of 161 countries for entry through 24 airports and three Indian ports, including Cochin, a rise in the number of cruise passengers alighting in the city is expected. 

 "The introduction of e-visa to the port means more time for the tourists to spend exploring the city by doing away with their visa processing at the port. Though the facility may not result in an immediate rise in international tourists to the city, the implementation will certainly help in attracting more tourists in the long run," said  , traffic manager, Cochin Port Trust.
 
 He added that though the government is aiming to bring the ports to the international standards like that of Dubai and Singapore, a considerable number of changes should be made for the same.
 
 "E-visa is undoubtedly a positive move in the direction of standardizing the port facilities. However, areas like infrastructure, customs and baggage clearance also need to be taken care of for an all-round advancement of the port," George added.
 
 Various tour operators engaged in cruise tourism also voiced the same concern regarding the improvement of infrastructural facilities at the port.
 
 "It's certain that the e-visa facility will draw more cruisers, by providing an easy experience for the tourists especially by cutting down the need to stand in long queues for the visa process. However, other infrastructural services also have to be worked upon for an enhanced tourism experience for both the tourists as well as those employed in the tourism sector - like tour guides and operators. There is no shade for the tour guides at the port who wait for the cruise tourists, let alone restroom or refreshment amenities. These areas too need to come under the focus of the government," said  , a government-certified tour operator.
 
 Various measures to simplify visa regime by the ministry of home affairs were implemented earlier this month to give a boost to tourism, medical and business sectors. The move is expected to result in substantial increase in direct and indirect employment in these sectors.
 
 The window for application under e-visa scheme also has been increased from 30 days to 120 days and duration of stay on e-visa has been increased from 30 days to 60 days with double entry on e-tourist and e-business visa and triple entry on e-medical visa.
 
