SURAT: The diamond and textile sectors in the city are upbeat as the city police are preparing to launch an   to deal with cases of payment defaults, bankruptcies, etc. 

 Industry sources said it was a long-pending demand of both the sectors that an economic offence wing be set up to deal the economic crimes separately. The state government has accepted the proposal. 
 
 As per an estimate, defaults to the tune of over Rs1,000 crore are reported from both the sectors per annum. The textile industry is vulnerable to economic offences and has been facing huge default cases for the last so many years due to absence of a separate division in the city police to deal with habitual offenders. 
 
 Every year, more than Rs400 crore worth of defaults are reported from various textile markets located on Ring Road and Salabatpura where weavers and traders are cheated by fly-by-night operators. The traders and weavers find it difficult to approach local police stations and when they do, they find the police preoccupied in solving crime cases reported on a daily basis. 
 
 Federation of   (FOSTTA) office-bearers said an economic offence wing will help in solving economic crimes reported in the markets and will provide security to gullible traders from the fly-by-night operators and cheater gangs. 
 
 FOSTTA president Manoj Agarwal said, “Now, that the state government has given the go ahead for setting up of the economic offence wing, we have urged the city police commissioner to speed up its formation. The economic offence wing will be headed by a deputy commissioner of police and comprise two assistant commissioners of police, two police sub-inspectors and a staff of more than 25 people. This will help the industry in minimizing the default cases.”
 
 Agarwal added, “There are over 165 textile markets on Ring Road and Salabatpura housing more than 65,000 textile shops. We are ready to submit a detailed list of textile shops to the economic offence wing.” 
 
 Gems and Jewellery Export Council regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya said, “Diamond industry will be benefited largely from the setting up of the economic offence wing. The default cases will be brought under control and that the gangs will think twice before cheating gullible traders and manufacturers.”
 
