NEW DELHI: Rajouri will vote twice in a fortnight, first to elect a new MLA on April 9 and then a fortnight later to choose new representatives for the  . In one, the residents are certain to demand long-term solutions to the development shortcomings in the assembly constituency, and in the other, reiterate these lacks in the four municipal wards of Rajouri Garden, Tagore Garden,   and Khyala.

 Rajouri Garden and Tagore Garden, unlike most wards in the capital, have good roads, functioning street lights and well-maintained parks. But affluence comes with its own baggage, and the resident businessmen and traders struggle with parking. Casting an eye on Arya Park in J Block of Rajouri Garden, which is now used as a parking lot, AS Walia asked, “If we don’t park cars in these open spaces, where else can we keep them?”
 
 Subhash Arya, leader of the House and himself a resident of Rajouri Garden, admitted that the National Green Tribunal has disallowed the use of parks for cars, but said that with the problem here to stay, there is no option. “We are planning to introduce steel structures fitted with lifts so that multiple vehicles can share the same space currently occupied by one car,” he revealed.
 
 SDMC did undertake the creation of three underground parking lots there, but work is yet to be completed despite the planning having taken place before the 2010 Commonwealth Games. “The work order has been held up because of the election code of conduct,” Arya pleaded.
 
 The markets in these upscale areas have another problem. Sumit Buddhiraj, a shop owner in Shivaji Market of Tagore Garden, pointed out, “Despite the tax revenue from these thriving markets, the corporation has not provided public washrooms and women customers face great discomfort. There are no dustbins either.”
 
 SDMC officials lamely said that restaurants and hotels in the markets should allow their washrooms to be used by the public. They also claimed that the underground parking projects only had minor work remaining before becoming operational. 
 
 The needs of Khyala and Vishnu Garden are completely different. The husband-wife team of Meenakshi and Meghraj Chandela represent the two in SDMC. 
 
 Despite the Chandelas’ long-term association with the two wards, the mostly unauthorised colonies, unplanned stretches and JJ clusters are a grim picture of apathy with their filth, pock-marked roads and clogged drains. 
 
 Stray dogs are a particularly disconcerting problem. Nazim Khan in Raghubir Nagar showed dog-bite scars on his legs and alleged that every other day someone got attacked by packs of strays.
 
 To add to this are the hazards that have accompanied the growth of a second-hand clothes market and a small-scale iron industry in Khyala. Slums have sprung up to house the people engaged by these ventures, leading to a severe strain on civic amenities. “The use of drums to store water has led to mosquitos breeding and we have a huge number of dengue and chikungunya cases every year,” said Nakul Waghri. And unfortunately, despite the presence of DUSIB toilets in the area, most misuse parks and vacant plots as open toilets.
 
