JAIPUR:   has taken suo motu cognizance of the drowning of two girls following police action at colony under Sewar police station in Bharatpur district on Tuesday evening.

 The division bench of acting Chief Justice K S Jhaveri and V K Vyas asked the additional advocate general (AAG) Brahmanand Sandhu to appraise the court of the factual report in the case on Friday. 
 
 The police following complaints of flesh trade raided a residential colony namely Panchi Ki Nagla Ki Bordia Basti on Tuesday evening. Seeing the police team a large number of villagers gathered there. Three girls in order to escape the chasing police started fleeing from the area. The police give them a chase. By reaching a dead end of a road near a pond the girls jumped in to the pond. While the villagers managed to save one, two were downed in the pond. Later police brought the divers from the nearby area and fished out the bodies. The deceased are identified as Sakina (15) and Rachna 25.
 
 While the police claimed that the girls were hiding at a farm near the pond and plunged in to the pond after slipping.
 
 ‘Draw plan to make Hingonia self-reliant’: Rajasthan   has asked advocate general M L Lodha in consultation with JMC commissioner to come up with a solution to make Hingonia gaushala self-reliant financially considering the poor financial condition of the JMC.
 
 It has also asked the ADG (ACB) Alok Tripathi to be present in the court on next hearing on April 4 to appraise the court on the progress of the enquiry being carried out on the irregularities at the gaushala. 
 
 Justice   gave the direction during the hearing of suo motu petition.
 
 Animal husbandry department director   informed the court that the department gives an allowance of Rs 16 for calves below three years and cows at Rs 32 per day for 90 days in a financial year to the gaushala. 
 
 He said Hingonia at present has 10,200 cows and 2,800 calves. So the total amount on this count to the Hingonia is Rs 3.34 crore which it will transfer to the JMC.
 
 The court directed the SDO Bassi to appraise the court through an affidavit the pasture land and baran land around 5 km radius of the gaushala by next hearing. 
 
