Parliamentarians in France and the UK are getting all knotted up over ties. In France, the ultra-left MPs of the France Insoumise party are defying President Emmanuel Macron’s crushing majority by sitting in the   without ties. They claim it as solidarity with the working class, but it is also an unsubtle statement against Macron, who is always immaculately dressed in the suit and tie expected of an ex banker and bureaucrat.
 
  In the UK, when a Liberal Democrat MP recently rose to speak without a tie, and was appealed against by a Conservative MP, the Speaker of   unexpectedly supported the former, effectively scrapping the rule on male MPs wearing ties. It later emerged this might have been prompted by a new Labour MP who suffers from cerebral palsy and who finds it hard to knot ties and even button shirts unaided, which is why he hoped to be allowed to wear a T-shirt with jacket instead. But this didn’t prevent much hand-wringing about dropping standards in public life and the dangers of going casual.
  
  
 
  Perhaps this is part of the sense of democracies under challenge from radical, populist movements, but there seems to be a sudden increase in concern about parliamentary   around the world. In Ireland, the Dail has commissioned research on the subject preparatory to a debate on possible change. The British change caused some MPs in New Zealand to call for similar changes, which the current Speaker opposes.
  
  Greece’s PM Alexis Tsipras famously always goes tieless – and when presented with one by Italy’s PM Matteo Renzi, promised to wear it when his country escapes its debt crisis.
  
  In Malawi last month, a MP was kicked out for coming without a tie and the month before another was removed for wearing an inappropriate hat. This lead to calls for debate over the dress code. Japan’s Upper House faced a controversy some years back when justice minister Midori Matsushima wore a red scarf, breaking the rule against wearing hats, scarves or coats.
  
  Matsushima is one of the women appointed by PM Shinzo Abe in a move to bring more diversity to the government and she argued that scarves were simply common accessories for women.
  
  
 
  One reason for increased concern over parliamentary dressing could be because proceedings, around the world, are usually televised now. This raises the temptation to use dressing as a political statement, for example the case in 2012 when US Representative Bobby Rush broke the very staid dress code of the US Congress by wearing a hooded jacket to protest the police killings of many young black men, many of them wearing such hoodies.
  
  In South Africa, members of the Economic Freedom Fighters, a far left party, now attend parliament in bright red overalls. The overalls link to workers killed in shootings at the Marikana platinum mines in 2012 while the red links to revolutionary movements in general – and really stands out on TV. In Uganda, a MP caused controversy by wearing a Kaunda suit, similar to a safari suit, but in his case in a bright yellow colour of the kind that prisoners must wear, and is really striking in photos.
  
  Indian MPs and MLA aren’t shy about drawing attention to themselves, but challenging dress codes is rarely a tactic used – probably because they hardly face any real dress codes. This is the result of dress actually playing a large part in our Independence struggle, with Mahatma Gandhi using his radically different dress as a potent visual challenge to the elaborately dressed British. The visual statement built in an economic one, with simple   challenging the industrial power of British mill-made cloth.
  
  
 
  Ironically, at times the khadi movement swung so far to the other side that wearing it became a rigid rule in itself. In 1929, for example, the Times of India (ToI) reported a Congress session where one Mr Menon demanded that those not wearing khadi refrain from voting. At his insistence the president of the session asked those not wearing khadi to stand up, and ToI reported, “Nobody, however, stood up and Mr Menon was heard to remark: ‘This is the way in which the Congress is encouraging honesty.’”
  
  After the Congress came to power in the Bombay City Corporation in 1939, members filed a resolution requiring khadi to be used for the dress of all corporation employees. ToI reported that this sparked protests from non-Congress members like Professor Sohrab Davar who suggested that the resolution “was to show to the people that Congress was in power” and Dr Sohrab Mehta who alleged that the nationalist roots of khadi were a sham because “there were men in the Congress who used to import ‘khadi’ from Japan and sell it in Bombay.”
  
  Questions about dress came up during the Constituent Assembly debates and again these showed how a determination to break free from one kind of dress code could result in another being imposed. On April 29, 1947, Rohini Kumar Chaudhury argued for including a ban on discrimination against the dress worn by any nationality, pointing to the many hotels and restaurants where such bans existed. What is interesting is that Chaudhury said his real fear was not of Indian dress being banned, but of European dress being banned by over nationalist Indians after Independence.
  
  
 
  And other members of the Assembly would come to argue for exactly this. On 17th November, 1949, B Das argued in favour of specifying a national dress. “I hate to see officials still moving about in ties and collars… They should be debarred from doing it. Parliament should debar by legislation.
  
  Nobody in the employment of the State should wear foreign dress.” A year later Tajamal Hussain was arguing for a secular uniformity: “We are one nation. Let us all have one kind of dress; one kind of name; and no visible signs… If you have a particular kind of dress, you know at once that so and so is a Hindu or Muslim. This thing should be done away with.”
  
  To these arguments for legislating on dress (specifically in response to Mr Chaudhury) Sardar Vallabhai Patel gave an eminently sane response: “There is no bar on any particular kind of dress. In my present dress I go to the viceroy’s house as well as to the abode of the humblest peasant.”
  
  Such discrimination as existed would, once the British left India, become irrelevant over time. At a basic level, when it came to dress codes, “I do not think such things should be provided for in fundamental rights,” said Patel.
  
  Patel’s position has been the one that remained with most Indian parliamentarians. There have been some quirks.
  
  Some, mostly male, parliamentarians have been lamentably ready to pronounce on what they feel is appropriate wear for women. There have been regional issues, for example, during the Punjab crisis when some Panthic organisations tried to impose rules for men and women in Punjab. At one point a Congress legislator in the notoriously riotous West Bengal assembly urged colleagues to give up dhotis for pants since the former gave less protection in combat.
  
  In the absence of rules, a certain uniformity based on what is practical and easy to wear has evolved. Most parliamentarians wear some variation of pyjama-kurta, with a few South Indians, like former finance minister P Chidambaram making a point of wearing a veshti. Dr Ambedkar’s suits were an assertion of the modernity he felt was the only hope for Dalit empowerment. But even as those suits have become a vital part of his iconography, not many Dalit politicians actually follow him in wearing them. In the end, comfort, in the heat of India, seems to overrule even symbolism.
  
  Western wear has been worn most commonly by leftist politicians in the form of the plain pant-shirt. In this they are perhaps signalling a link to a more global political movement, or perhaps to the clothes that many workers actually wear since, despite Sardar Patel’s hopes, Indian clothes are still not common in most offices. In 1966, the trade unionist George Fernandes oversaw the opening of the first Janata Tailoring Shop in Bombay where a tailors’ union produced clothes for the working man at very affordable rates – Rs30 for a pair of pants, Rs7 for a shirt, Rs80 for a coat.
  
  Other styles have come and gone. The safari suit was once often worn by politicians; now it’s only seen on their bodyguards. The formal black achkan and close cut white pants that Dr Rajendra Prasad, on the advice of  , wore as our first president, has given way to a more amply cut bandh gala. The long-sleeved jacket named after Nehru himself has given way to a short-sleeved version sometimes called the Jawaharlal jacket, and now often loses its sleeves altogether to become a plain waistcoat.
  
  Our current prime minister wears this often enough for it to be dubbed the Modi jacket. But another sartorial touch has become particular popular with this government. In a sign that more formality is desired, without going all the way to uniformly tailored suits, the pocket square has become popular with male politicians.
  
  The pocket square is versatile, since it can be worn with suits, bandh galas and waistcoats. It can be usefully customised in colour and adds the formal touch of a tie without the actual throat constriction of a tie. It is just a handkerchief, but can be puffed or folded in different ways. The pocket square is a way to make an impression, but without ever being required to actually do anything with it. No wonder it appeals to the Indian politicians of today. 
