MARGAO: Climate change is something that they learnt by rote in school, but at the Science Express- Climate Action Special stationed at the   railway station, the students found the very topic lively and fascinating. Students gasped with wonder and excitement as the treasure trove of science unfolded before them in the 11-coach air conditioned exhibition train that chugged into the Margao railway station on Tuesday.

 Railway minister, Suresh Prabhu, inaugurated the Margao leg of   through video conferencing from Delhi. The exhibition train will be available for public viewing at Margao railway station until Thursday. A flagship programme of the department of science and technology, government of India, the Science Express is organised by the ministry of railways, in co-ordination with the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, department of biotechnology, wildlife institute of India and Vikram Sarabhai community centre.
 
 The themes include ‘Understanding climate change’ in coach 1; ‘Impact of climate change’ in coach 2; Adaptation in coach 3 and 4; Mitigation in coach 5 and 6; International negotiations on climate change in coach 7; Handprint in coach 8; Exhibition put up by the department of biotechnology, covering themes like biotechnology for bio-resources and nature conversation with emphasis on tiger conservation and chemical ecology in coach 9 and 10, and exhibition put up by the national innovation foundation showcasing select innovations, demonstrating the ingenuity of common people and an innovation project which uses augmented reality techniques in coach 11.
 
 “I have come out of the train much more enlightened on various aspects of climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, global warming and the methods to reduce it,”  , a sixth standard student said.
 
 Visitors can browse through displays on climate change and animal adaptation, as well as international treaties on battling global warming. Older students can test experiments in the onboard laboratory. Some of the learning is put into practice on the train itself—solar panels are installed on the roofs of three coaches to reduce energy consumption.
 
 “I’m thrilled as I got to know many things about how each one of us can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by using low carbon materials like cloth bags, etc,” Shaunak Fernandes, a seventh standard student said. 
 
 Baban Ghatge, senior manager, public relations,  , said that the exhibition received a tremendous response on the first day.
 
