KORAPUT: The year was 1941 and Mohammaed Baji was a 22-year-old who had just met Mahatma Gandhi for the first time at the Wardha Ashram. A Gandhian was born and the country gained a fighter in the  . 

 Cut to 2017, and the man from Nabarangpur district, at the grand old age of 100 years may be too frail to work but Gandhian thought and philosophy still act as his life's defining principles. 
 
 Baji is perhaps the last recognised freedom fighter of an undivided   district. In 1992, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri and   districts were carved out from the Koraput district.
 
 "I was in school when I first heard of Gandhi. I had made up my mind to meet him, but I had no money. So one of my friends and I pedalled 350 kilometres through forests and mountains to reach Raipur. From there we took a train to Wardha, where we finally met Bapu," says Baji. Seated on a chair in his Nabarangpur home, the freedom fighter cuts a remarkable picture.
 
 Gandhi had asked him a simple question. "I was overwhelmed when Gandhiji asked me if I was a Satyagrahi. When I said I had pledged to be one, he asked me to face the British lathis and sacrifice my life for the nation. I knew then what awaited me," Baji says. 
 
 The journey from Wardha back home was to prove a decider for the course of Baji's life. Shortly afterwards, in an anti-war protest outside the Nabarangpur Masjid, Baji performed individual satyagraha and was sent to jail for six months in Koraput, in addition to being fined Rs 50. 
 
 "In those says, a group of thirty people and I used to walk to villages and spread the message of satyagraha and non-violence among the masses," he said.
 
 On August 25, 1942 during the Quit India Movement, Baji was jailed again for 30 months in Koraput jail. 
 
 In 1945, he was attacked and arrested at Soraguda during a peaceful march. Injured, he was then shifted to the Cuttack jail where he was housed with a person who would then grow into some prominence --  . 
 
 As if to reflect on the similarity of his fate with a nascent India, three days before the country would gain its freedom, Baji was freed from prison on August 12, 1947. 
 
 "I donated my 14 acres of land during the Bhoodan movement," Baji says. 
 
