Art World Gallery’s new publication on the late K C S Paniker, the legendary painter, presents the genius of the artist through lavish reproductions of his paintings and scholarly essays by Josef James, Ludwig Goldscheider, and Rebecca Brown. The book ‘Paniker’ is being released on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Cholamandal Artists’ Village, which was founded by the artist. 

 Images of the paintings of Paniker from the Thiruvananthapuram museum, clicked by Michael Lockwood, clearly tell the story of the painter finding his unique pictorial language. Recognising Paniker’s genius even early in his career, Austrian-British publisher and art historian Ludwig Goldscheider wrote in a letter dated November 19, 1954: "You are one of the very few Indian painters who went through the ordeal of western teaching and came out unbroken. Your paintings are not translations from the French, not based on models of which one does not quite know whether they still belong to modern French art or to French haute couture; neither are they enlarged Indian miniatures or reduced Indian rock paintings. They are as competent as anything done by the younger European painters and at the same time they are very Indian. I feel sure I should have recognised them as Asiatic in any exhibition even if not told so. They are honest paintings".
 
 Paniker’s early watercolour painting, ‘Conolly Canal’ reveals that his technique is not to capture landscape photographically but to seize it as a continuous pattern of light in colour. The late art critic Josef James argues in the book that it is this continuity of sensation that holds Paniker’s pictures. James says that conveying the feeling as an abstraction in sheer colours is an approach Paniker also adopted for portraying people in his paintings. With this method of presenting feeling as an abstraction in colours, Paniker made each one of his pictures a poetic statement. 
 
 Paniker’s ‘Fruit Seller’ conveys a drama of colours, lines, figures, and calligraphy. The human figure — of the fruit seller — in the painting does not have individuality but only the attributes. If we look closely at the picture, we find that the characteristics are abstracted not only for the main figure but also for the horse, the bird, the vendor, the numerals and letters of the alphabet strewn on the board. The drama emerges through Paniker’s unique art and ability to abstract all the aspects of painting. 
 
 Art scholar Rebecca Brown who has extensively written about Indian painting informs us that many scholars examine Paniker’s works through his interest in folk art — his founding of the Cholamandal artist’s village and his valorisation of indigenous craft and tradition. This connection, of course, can be seen in the ‘Words and Symbols’ series. But in addition to folk elements including references to the Warli drawing, in some ways Paniker prominently uses diagrams, charts, and symbols to create a free space of mathematical and scientific inquiry into the contexts of his primitive and folk canvases. He himself called his paintings "Chitram Ezhuthu" (The written picture) and asked, "What more suitable medium can one invent for making pictures than the written word? Every letter in the written word has a highly evolved form, a form attained through usage and guided by man's racial and or national sense of seeing and shaping, the line following the laws of continuity and a free manual rhythm of action." To achieve that rhythm of action Paniker does not use legible alphabets but indecipherable calligraphy — resembling Malayalam — filled with symbols.
 
 Paniker’s "national" way of seeing and articulating his pictorial language is different from the nationalist Bengal school of art. A central artist on the Madras art scene, Paniker moved away from older Indian media such as tempera and watercolour that is used by the Bengal school. The Madras School of Arts & Crafts which consisted of a group of master artisans and their team of apprentices was a traditional centre of excellence. From 1957 onwards under the tutelage of Paniker, the school evolved into a movement. Josef James tells us that the Madras painter drew finer lines and colours until it turned into an elaborate figure itself as in quality craft work. Their drawing became algebraic, severely notational or calligraphic and well in line with the tradition of indigenous drawing and sculpture. Paniker’s genius lies in the pioneering modern path he created for the Madras movement. 
 
 (The author is a folklorist and an art critic)
 
 
