NEW DELHI: In an interesting development, BJP MLA and the leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, Vijender Gupta, has said that the civic elections are not just about municipal issues but a fight between “nationalist and anti-national forces”.

 Addressing a Press conference on Tuesday, Gupta attacked AAP and Congress, accusing them of supporting “anti-nationals”. He said: “It (civic elections) has now become a fight between nationalist, patriotic and progressive forces on the one hand, and anti-national, fascist and anarchist forces on the other.” 
 
 When asked why BJP was making “nationalism” an issue in the civic elections instead of talking about its performance in the corporations ruled by it for a decade, Gupta said: “We will talk about our achievements also in the days to come. But this issue is important as we have to expose the real character of these parties who support anti-nationals.”
 
 Clubbing AAP and Congress together, he said both “stand united in supporting anti-national and divisive forces”. Elaborating, he observed: “They were together in their support to separatist forces in JNU and Ramjas College. They both showed sympathy to the student leaders demanding ‘azadi’ and chanting the slogan, “Bharat tere tukre honge, insha Allah insha Allah” in JNU and Ramjas College.”
 
 Citing the lecture delivered by Supreme Court lawyer A G Noorani recently in the Delhi assembly on Shaheed Diwas, Gupta accused the Kejriwal government of encouraging separatist forces. “They invited Noorani, who is a staunch supporter of separatists and advocates plebiscite in Kashmir…He recently defended Burhan Wani saying that this 22-year-old tech-savvy militant became an icon and he had to be done away with,” said Gupta.
 
 He said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had created an “India-Pakistan situation” between the state government and the Centre by accusing the latter of blocking Bills passed by the Delhi assembly and not letting them work. “Delhi is a mini-India. It is time that such disruptive forces are given a befitting reply in the forthcoming elections in Delhi,” he said.
 
 He alleged that Kejriwal and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi were united by a ”common thread of hatred for Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.
 
 While the AAP brass refused to comment, Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken said Gupta’s accusations didn’t deserve a reply.
 
 
