KOLKATA: Bengal   plans to intensify its campaign against the   government after results to the civic polls are declared on Wednesday. Despite allegations of Trinamoolsponsored violence in the civic polls held on Sunday, BJP expects to fare better than CPM and Congress. The saffron brigade’s stir will depend on the intensity of its electoral success.
 
  “We will gherao the Kolkata Police headquarters in Lalbazar on May 25 to oppose state government using the police to fulfill their political interests. The police played a very partial role and helped   Congress to capture booths during May 14 civic polls at Pujali, Raigunj and Domkal municipalities. We will mount pressure on the Kolkata Police for playing a neutral role in handling movement and agitation by our party. The police, at the behest of the ruling party, is falsely implicating activists and we want this should be stopped,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh told ET on Tuesday.
  
  Ghosh said BJP will hold a series of agitation against the Mamata Banerjee government till June 23. BJP leaders would highlight various central government schemes and try to convince people that Trinamool Congress government was trying to mislead them by changing names of central schemes.
  
  “Mamata’s government has changed the name of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and termed it as Banglar Gramin Sadak Yojana. This government has also changed the name of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana and is describing it as Banglar Griha Prakalpa. Such schemes have been there since the Congress regime and as far as I know, no state government has renamed such popular central government schemes. This has been done in Bengal just to satisfy Mamata Banerjee’s ego,” alleged a senior BJP leader. After a meeting in Kolkataon Monday the state unit sent a detailed report to its central leadership on ‘violence’ and ‘booth capturing’ by ‘miscreants’ ‘owing allegiance’ to Trinamool.
  
  The report alleged that police in Pujali, Raigunj and Domjal had ‘behaved’ like Trinamool activists and ‘helped’ the ruling party ‘rig’ the May 14 polls. 
