LUCKNOW: Her 16-year stint with singing and dancing at homes where babies are born or weddings solemnised came to an end on Monday.   Tiwari, 31, became the first   in the country to enroll for higher studies at the Indira Gandhi National Open University ( ). Sudha will now pursue a six-month   ( ) that will maker her eligible for BA (Bachelor of Arts). 

 “It’s encouraging for me and my community and gives us a sense of recognition, for who doesn’t want a respectable life and a well-paid job,”Sudha told TOI, adding, “But it also makes me afraid that I may face discrimination, verbal abuse and neglect by fellow classmates.’’ Sudha completed school eduation 16 years ago from Saraswati Shishu Mandir, Maharajganj in Bihar and moved to Lucknow soon after. 
 
 A resident of Gola Kheda near Alambagh locality, Sudha was approached by an IGNOU staff with the help of activists working for the third gender. “We carried out two meetings with them (transgender) at their residence. We motivated them and on Monday, they visited IGNOU’s awareness camp for transgender held at Maharaja Bijli Pasi Government College where Sudha was first to enrol for the BPP course,’’ said IGNOU’s regional director Manorama Singh. She added, there are four other transgender students who will be part of BPP’s programme for the session beginning this month. 
 
 IGNOU had recently announced free education to transgender community to “universalise and democratise” education. According to Singh, special arrangement will be made for Sudha and her friends. “We will conduct classes for them at our regional centre and they will study under our supervision,’’ said Singh. So far, IGNOU has provided free education to sex workers, jail inmates and weavers. 
 
 Admissions for transgender at IGNOU is being provided on the basis of any certificate issued by the Central/state government/medical officer/any other competent authority or Aadhaar card. No documents like migration or transfer certificate are required. 
 
 
