JAIPUR: The historic performance of the   on Saturday has boosted the energy levels of the state BJP; and chief minister   announcing that the saffron party will return to power in a similar grand fashion in 2018.

 Terming the BJP’s landslide victory in   and Uttarakhand as ‘Modi Magic’, Raje said that BJP in Rajasthan, which goes to polls in the end of 2018, will witness another historic win under the leadership of prime minister  . 
 
 Addressing the party workers at the BJP headquarters, she said, “It was not a Modi wave (in UP and Uttarakhand); it was a Modi storm.’’ She asked the workers to work for a similar show next year.
 
 “This is yet another step towards a Congress-free India. The hard work of the party president Amit Shah and the leadership of Modi has made this possible,’’ she said. Taking a dig at the state Congress, which had held its Holi celebration on Friday, she said, “we are celebrating Holi a day earlier to mark the victory. Congress, which probably had an idea of what the results would be, celebrated it on Friday itself.’’
 
 Prior to that, Raje took to twitter to voice her joy. `One man with the vision to make ShreshthaBharat--now millions backs his dream & joins him in this journey to a better tomorrow," she tweeted. She further added,"Landslide victory! Over the moon with delight as results prove people choose Development & Sushasan over everything else’ and `this historic mandate reflects people's trust in the vision of PM @narendramodi & their belief in his mission towards #TransformingIndia."
 
 Meanwhile, along with the banners of Raje and Parnami at the BJP office, were giant hoardings of PM Modi, Amit Shah and Rajya Sabha MP from state Om Prakash Mathur, in-charge of the party affairs in UP, which caught the eye of the supporters. With a landslide victory in UP, Mathur’s stature is the party is expected to grow folds. Speculations are high about his involvement in the state politics next year during the next assembly polls.
 
 Raje, along with state party president Amit Shah, cabinet ministers Kalicharaf Saraf and Arun Chaturvedi and other senior leaders, had gathered at the BJP state headquarters to celebrate the party’s victory. Hundreds of party workers burst fire crackers, celebrated sweets, danced on dhols and celebrated early holi by playing with `saffron gulal’. The celebrations continued for the entire even as chief minister along with other BJP leaders including Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra made a sudden headway towards the walled city and spent time at a tea-stall there. Enjoying a cup of tea, they interacted with the locals there.
 
