PANAJI: Though the   may have emerged as the single largest party in the 2017 state assembly  , the grand old party has lost the plot to form the next Goa government as the   managed to cobble up a coalition notwithstanding that its tally was only 13 in the house of 40.

 Delay in getting the partners - MGP and GFP and independents on board, cost the Congress dearly. 
 
 Analysts say that it was a golden opportunity for the party to get the requried numbers and accoringly comunicate to the governor. With the electorate venting their anger against BJP, Congress had managed to get 17 seats, just four short of the magic figure of 21 seats. 
 
 From the time the results were out, the Congress took time in getting its act together, a poll observer said. Probably, the party managers felt that the BJP might not try to cobble up an alliance and the Congress legislative party (CLP) meet was convened on Sunday. 
 
 Initially, the choice for the chief ministerial candidate was between state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro, Digambar Kamat and Pratapsingh Rane. During negotiation, Vijai Sardesai had made it clear that he would not be part of any governmetn headed by Faleiro as he had fielded candidate against him in Fatorda.
 
 Knowing this well, the Congress managers led by general secretary of AICC Digvijaya Singh took time in deciding on the CLP leader and finalsing the negotiations with GFP.
 
 By the time, the Congress elected its CLP, the plot was lost as the defence minister Manohar Parrikar had stiched the alliance of getting eight others on board which included MGP, GFP and Rohan Khaunte who was elected as Congress-supported independent and BJP-supported independent Govind Gaude. 
 
 “The people have given us single largest party, it is our responsibility to reach out to parties who have defeated the BJP, some of them have defeated BJP ministers also,” All India Congress committee secretary and spokesperson Girish Chodankar Chodankar said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Vijai Sardesai said that the Congress had yet to approach him with a formal proposal, including a common minimum programme.
 
 The MGP on its part has shown its inclination towards a BJP-led alliance, on the condition that defence minister Manohar Parrikar returns as the chief minister of Goa.
 
 “Despite BJP projecting Parrikar as the possible chief minister, the people voted against the BJP, brought them down to 13 from 21 MLAs. He was camping in Goa and still people have rejected him. This is a verdict against Parrikar also,” Chodankar stated.
 
