THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Scientists, science enthusiasts, academicians and writers have called all who believe in evidence-based science or knowledge for development to join the 'India March for Science’ on August 9. The March will be held on the same day in all major cities across the country and in Thiruvananthapuram it will be begin at 11 am from Secretariat premises to conclude at the Public Library.

 The march will be a symbolic protest against the Centre’s move to cut funds for science research and technology institutions. It also aims to set the foundation for a host of activities to develop scientific temper, awareness and popularisation and to dispel unscientific superstitious beliefs.
 
 As a prelude to the March, publicity programs and science-based magic shows will be organised at prominent places, at educational and scientific institutions across the state. Breakthrough Science Society (BSS) President GS Padmakumar said the March for Science will not be restricted to BSS, all organisations, clubs and individuals who go by the manifesto of the march can join. Astronomy clubs, School Science clubs, Nature Science clubs, environmental activists and all who believe in the manifesto of the March can join, he said.
 
 An organising committee has been constituted for the March led by veteran space scientist and ISRO’s Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre former deputy director P   as its chairperson. The vice chairpersons of the Committee include Prof CP Aravindakshan, C Krishnavarier, GS Padmakumar and Prof Gireesh. Prof PN Thankachan is the general convenor of the committee with convenors Gomathi, Shaji Albert, Prof Biju Longenos, Shaji, Shrirag, Manu and Jyothish Babu as the treasurer. This March will be on the lines of the previous March for Science organised in 160 cities across the world on April 22 this year, Indian   (IIST) faculty and BSS secretariat member Rajeevan.P.P said.
 
 The reason to hold the March is to attain the four demands raised in the manifesto. It include demand for allocation of at least 3% of GDP to scientific and technological research and 10% towards education, secondly to Stop propagation of unscientific, obscurantist ideas and religious intolerance, and develop scientific temper, human values and spirit of inquiry in conformance with Article 51A of the Constitution. Thirdly, to ensure that the education system imparts only ideas that are supported by scientific evidence and fourth to enact policies based on evidence-based science.
 
 Space Scientist P Radhakrishnan urged all who believe in evidence based science to join the science movement which is aimed at inspiring positive societal development.
 
 IISER Kolkata faculty Prof   told TOI that the key concerns raised by scientists in the country include need for increase in funds for science research and technology institutions and to end the propagation of unscientific views. “After organising this March for Science in major cities across the country on Aug 9, a delegation of scientists and faculty members from each state will submit a memorandum to the Governor of the respective state. Through the Governor of each state, the memorandum will be submitted to the Union Science and Technology Minister,” he said.
 
 Further updates on the March can be had on the Facebook page IndiaMarchforScience.Trivandrum and those interested to participate as volunteers for the March for Science can contact the organisers over phone at 093872 24226 or 082811 85752.
 
 
