PATNA: As the Nitish Kumar-Lalu Prasad partnership in Bihar negotiates choppy waters,   has come out in open support of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the RJD chief ’s son and the state’s deputy CM, who is accused of owning benami properties by the CBI.

 Both RJD and Nitish’s party JD(U) have been trading barbs over corruption charges against Lalu and his family members, and Congress, which had been trying not to take a position, has been forced into a corner with the ‘mahagathbandhan’ war hotting up over the continuance of Tejashwi as deputy CM. JD(U) has asked Tejashwi to explain the land graft charges in connection with which the CBI named him in an FIR lodged on July 5.
 
 Congress MLC Dilip Choudhary ridiculed JD(U) spokespersons for seeking an explanation from Tejashwi.
 
 “Do spokespersons make or remove ministers? They should clarify whether or not Nitish was satisfied with the explanation given by Tejashwi when he called on the CM on Tuesday,” Choudhary said. 
 
 RJD, JD (U) and Congress are partners with 80, 71 and 27 MLAs in the 243-strong Bihar House. Tejashwi is believed to have told the CM that his family was falsely implicated by the CBI out of political vendetta and he would contest the charges legally. Nitish has not said whether he is satisfied with Tejashwi’s explanation, and JD(U) has refused to accept it.
 
 Party spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said RJD should give an explanation to JD(U). Neeraj said JD(U) disapproved of RJD’s stand that Tejashwi would give an explanation on corruption charges at the party’s rally to be held in Patna on August 27. “The alliance was formed with a common minimum programme, which includes zero tolerance on corruption,” Neeraj told TOI.
 
 JD(U) MLC Sanjay Singh, on the other hand, said though his party was smaller than RJD in terms of number of assembly seats, its stature was taller than the senior alliance partner’s. “Questions are being raised on the image of JD(U). Hence, an explanation is must or else it may impact the alliance,” Sanjay said. RJD again ruled out Tejashwi’s resignation.
 
 
