Did you know that the largest cause of disability worldwide is   with as many as one in every five people being affected by it? With these alarming stats in mind, the   (WHO) has chosen to keep the theme ‘Depression: Let’s talk’ on World Health Day today. One of the antidotes to this, is staying happy. Incorporating simple regimes in our day-to-day lives can help usher in   — from joining   clubs to following the right  , attending social events, exercising and creating social media hashtags — there is a lot that can put a smile to your life. 

 
  
  
 The next time you’re dreading a long day ahead with meetings, start the morning by heading to a park in Mumbai. Not just to jog or run, but to let your hair loose and laugh. That’s right. Mumbaikars have been bringing on the mirth and increasing their   at laughter clubs in parks and gardens, such as the BPT Garden Colaba, Hanging Gardens, Worli, Priyadarshini Park at Malabar Hill, Shivaji Park, Dadar, and more. The groups meet early morning by 6 am. They use different techniques too — like giggle, guffaw, loud laughs and silent ones. “We have stimulated laughters,” adds Dilip Shah, a resident of Breach Candy. “Sometimes we do a silent laugh, then a ‘jumping laugh’, with our mouths closed, a special cocktail laugh, an arm- swinging laugh and a one-meter laugh, where you playfully imagine measuring a metre by moving one hand over the stretched arm on the other side, and extending to the shoulder (just like drawing a bow and arrow) as you laugh,” he informs. Time you tried this cheap, inexpensive way to boost your mood, too!”
 
 
 
 In Mumbai, stand-up comedy has picked up in a big way in the last couple of years. Every week, there are at least 20 comedy shows taking place at comedy clubs, studios, pubs, restaurants, colleges and even offices. 
 Local comedians like Aditi Mittal, Karunesh Talwar and Kunal Kamra have had videos of their live shows go viral. Talking about the trend, Manu Gupta, who has newly formed a comedy collective, says, “We have had tremendous response from our audiences in the past six months. Comedy also provides a new way of social hangouts and it’s beautiful to see people together, all cheerful and happy after shows.”
 Rueben Kaduskar, who also owns a newly formed comedy company, says, “People are looking to have a good time, seeking a refreshing change from their hectic daily lives.”
 But does it help fight depression as well? Rueben says, “Yes, totally. Not only does watching comedy help, performing helps too! When you’re on stage and people collectively laugh at your jokes, there is no better feeling than that!”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 There are a number of cycling spots in the city, right from Marine Drive and Shivaji Park to the Eastern Express Highway where you can ride effortlessly minus traffic snarls. 
 
 Take a break from the hustle and bustle of city life and spend some time in the lap of nature. Places around Karjat and Igatpuri offer a stay with the locals, where you can learn the rural way of life, including farming and pottery. 
 
 
 If you wish to camp out of the city, there are exclusive summer camps for adults which are just an hour’s drive from the city. Places like Mandwa and Gorai offer kayaking facilities during the night. Apart from this, you can also go in for a water reading session, which basically trains you to understand waves, surfs and currents.
 
 
 For those who are interested in knowing about Mumbai more, photowalks are good options. These walks take you to the iconic spots in the city, where you can show off your photography skills.
 
 
 Who said massages is the only way to relax and   yourself? There are special pet zones in the city that allow you to cuddle up pets (doggies and cats) and relax yourself. They aren’t ordinary pets, these animals are trained and are referred to as ‘therapeutic’ pets to calm the human mind and make them feel loved.
 
 
 
  
  
 Studies have found that those who exercise three times a week cut the risk of suffering from depression by 16 per cent. Swati Shah, 
 fitness and wellness coach, says, “To fight depression you need to divert your attention from the day-to-day grind. Workouts release happy hormones and uplift your mood considerably. Exercising on a daily basis helps to change your mind’s frequency and makes you feel happier. Focus on playing a sport and that can keep your mind away from things that are bothering you.”
 
 
 
  
  
 They say that your mood is often ruled by what you eat. Food is directly linked to three key areas of the brain function that is responsible for causing you to feel happy. There actually is a Happiness Diet that includes nutrient-rich foods such as vitamins A, B-12, E magnesium, fiber, iron, calcium, and omega-3 fatty acids. Nutritionist   says, “One of the basic rules is to not give up on carbs. Depriving the body of carbs causes depression. Carbs tackle emotions like feeling low, extra sensitivity and anger.” 
 
 
 
 1. When you take an online celebrity-lookalike quiz and the result tells you that you look like your favourite actor. 
 2. When you come up with a   that is retweeted 33 times in 15 minutes. 
 3. When your domestic help remembers to switch on the fan after sweeping the room, while you are still sleeping. 
 4: When your spouse is out of town and you get to have both the side pillows to yourself. 
 5. When the lift doesn’t stop anywhere in between and takes you straight to your floor. 
 6. Getting on the local train on a state holiday, when you have to work, and spend three minutes trying to figure out which window seat is the best. 
 7. Getting a text from your bae, that is a screenshot of a text you had sent him/her like a million years ago, randomly.
 8. When a song is stuck in your head for the whole day and you have no clue why. And suddenly you hear it on the radio. 
 9. Reading a line in a book that says exactly what you have always wanted to say, but could never put it in words. 
 10. Reading a list like this and re-living all the times these have happened with you. 
 
 
 
