NEW: Hours after celebrating the birthday of their 12-year-old girl, four members of a family, including the child and her toddler brother, died in a fire that spread through their building in east Delhi's  , early Friday morning. 

 The fire apparently started from a short circuit in the meter box on the ground floor. Fed by 19 two-wheelers parked in the garage and other combustible material, the blaze quickly spread to the staircase around 3am. Nine other families escaped or shut themselves in but the Vermas on the second floor were trapped trying to flee. 
 
 Vijay Verma, 63, his son-in-law Sanjay and grandchildren Harshu, 12, and Chiku, 2, died trying to reach the terrace. Verma's daughters, Monika and Happy, were rescued by their neighbour, Aman Sharma.
 
 While other families on the second floor survived the fire by locking themselves in their flats, the Vermas tried to escape. They first attempted to go down the smoke-filled stairs but failed. Then they tried to flee to the terrace but the door was locked from inside. Ironically, the key to the lock was in the Verma's apartment. Fire officials said the bodies of Verma and the children were found at the entrance to their house, while Vijay's corpse was found on the staircase. All of them were charred beyond recognition.
 
 The bodies were sent for an autopsy at  . "We have registered a case under the IPC and have called forensic teams and fire experts to conduct a probe into the cause of the fire," said Nupur Prasad, DCP, Shahdara "There was thick smoke coming up the stairs which had filled our apartments when we tried to save the Verma family. Toxic fumes from plastic burning downstairs choked us. We could hear them looking for us on the staircase but they soon fell silent. Then, a ball of fire engulfed the staircase and charred the bodies," said Aman Sharma, who too lives on the second floor.
 
 "We could save Monika, her elder daughter Ishu and her sister Happy, 18, as we found them close to our flat," said Sharma. Monika suffered major injuries as she had leaned against a heated wall. She was admitted to a private hospital with 40% burn injuries and has been kept under observation.
 
 Five other residents of the building were injured when they jumped from their balconies to save themselves. Residents said 10 families lived in the building across four floors.
 
 Aman's father R K Sharma, a friend of Verma, said that they had celebrated Harshu's birthday together and had slept late. "While the others managed to get out of their apartment, it seems the Vermas did not hear us. When they finally realised the building was on fire, the flames had spread. They panicked and tried to climb to the terrace," he said. "A month back, Verma had kept a bag of sand under the meter box, hoping to put it to use in case of a fire. Unfortunately, it was of no help," rued Aman Sharma. 
 
 
