BHOPAL: In the fertile farms of  , a new kind of job has sprung leaves. Tribal women are being hired by other states as ‘agri coaches’ and reaping handsome returns.

 Trained under Madhya Pradesh State Rural Livelihoods Mission, some 4,000   have brought home over Rs 72.8 lakh in just 10 months. This quick cash has helped them break out of BPL shackles.
 
  Khan, 38, a mother of two, had never imagined that she would make this kind of money in a remote village in Shahdol district. Below poverty line till two years back, she earns Rs 800 a day these days as a Krishi Sakhi. A school dropout, the new source of income has helped her renew formal education. She goes to states like   and Uttar Pradesh on invitation of state governments there and teaches low-cost and organic farming techniques.
 
 The Krishi Sakhis go in teams of five for 15-day visits to other states, where their food and lodging expenses are taken care of. The money they make is all theirs. The workforce of rural women has not only raised their living standards, but have become a source of inspiration to society. 
 
 Ruhi told TOI: “I was a homemaker before getting trained as a Krishi Sakhi. The handful of money my husband earned could barely help meet the basic needs of our family. One day, I came to know about livelihood mission through a volunteer in my village and got associated with it. My family’s life has transformed and I also feel proud that I bring home money.”
 
 Asked about her experience of teaching organic farming in   and Haryana, she said: “We first talk to the sarpanch and panchayat secretary on reaching a village. Then we conduct a meeting with farmers and brief them on the pros and cons of organic farming and how they can use low-cost farming to increase their income. We teach people how to make bio-fertilizer, bio-pesticides, compost, optimum use of water and how to use every inch of land. If a land is used properly, you can get 4 acres of productivity from just 1 acre of land. We also tell people how use of chemicals spoils the soil quality.” 
 
 MP State Rural Livelihoods Mission CEO L M Belwal said close to 5,000 BPL women have been trained as Krishi Sakhis so far. “They are trained according to their convenience so that instead of sitting back at home, they can step out of their homes, earn money and live a graceful life. UP, Haryana and other states approaching MP to send Krishi Sakhis to their states to train farmers. This indicates that they have started making a mark at the national level,” he added.
 
 
