Gurgaon: Monkey menace has been a prime concern for the residents of   1. However, a recent drive carried out by the   to catch   in the locality has left residents and   fuming.

 The drive was conducted over the weekend, according to the residents. The animal activists have claimed that the monkey   administered drugs to the animals to separate them from their families and they were transported in a cruel manner to an undisclosed location. 
 
 “We have received numerous complaints and evidences of illegal capture of monkeys from C Block, Sushant Lok-I by a sub-contractor of MCG. This entire exercise to capture monkeys is illegal. The contractors caught monkeys without observing any of the prescribed rules. Moreover, the monkeys were administered drugs and separated from their families. The catchers also handed them in a cruel manner and transported them in covered vehicles with no supply of fresh air, food or water in this weather. The monkeys were transported to undisclosed locations,” said Amit Chaudhery, President of PFA (People for Animal) Gurgaon. Chaudhery has filed a complaint in Sushant Lok I police station against the MCG and its contractual staff. 
 
 Several residents raised a concern over cruelty towards monkeys in the area. “Monkeys were fed bananas laced with some drug to capture them. The poor animals were manhandled. We therefore immediately reported the matter to PFA,” said a resident, requesting anonymity.
 
 Sudhir Sachdeva, a resident of C Block in Sushant Lok I, said, “The catchers should be penalised as there has to be a proper way of rehabilitating the animals. We can’t approve of animal just because some residents faced inconvenience.”
 
 The activists have sought police assistance to physically examine the condition of the captured monkeys. “We want the police to take immediate action. Also, the so called ‘NGO’ hired by the corporation is not recognized by the animal welfare board of India,” said Chaudhery. He added that the animals should only be sent to government-approved animal shelters.
 
 It may be noted that the Rhesus Monkey is a protected species under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. 
 
 
