In a continuing bid to make Indore open defecation free, a plethora of initiatives are being taken by the Indore Municipal Corporation. After the Dabba Gang and Roko-toko campaigns, attractive graffiti and murals have come up around the city spreading the message of  . We take a look at the initiatives that are helping Indore pave the way forward.

  
 
 Hoping to spread the message of a clean city through attractive wall paintings, the   recently got the walls of Rajkumar Bridge and the walls on the periphery of   painted. These walls sport colourful cartoons urging people not to litter, spit and urinate in public and have been painted by seasoned artists hired by IMC.
 
 
  
 
 And if the colourful messages don’t help, perhaps a penalty will. From this year, people found urinating in public areas, will be fined `100 on the spot. “We are deploying a number of teams in different areas to keep a tab on this. Recently, the IMC has built over 90 public toilets in different areas near liquor shops, bus stands and outside the railway station, to stop public 
 urination. Makeshift toilets have also been set up outside colleges and a few prominent temples,” informs the additional commissioner of IMC, Rohan Saxena.
 
 
 
 
 
 Trucks that go from door to door collecting garbage are now educating people about keeping their surroundings clean. Loudspeakers are attached to these trucks and   made by the IMC are played as they traverse the city. Seema Gupta, a resident of Sudama Nagar, says, “Moreover, the volunteers from IMC visited each house in our locality to counsel how dry and wet waste should be segregated before dumping. They also taught us how wet waste can be renewed for generating energy, since it is biodegradable. Almost all households in our society have started maintaining two dust bins now.” In addition to this, the garbage trucks also call out the names of people whose houses have litter strewn outside, compelling them maintain their surroundings. 
 
 
 
 
 Any form of education has to start at a young age, and the IMC is ensuring that school students learn about waste management, so they can spread the message at home. Shrigopal Jagtap, head of solid waste management and sanitation at an organisation called Basix says, “We are associated with the IMC and as a part of the cleanliness campaigns, we educate young minds by taking them to waste management and composting units that have been started in a few townships in the city. Students see how the bio-gas plant works.”
 
  
 
 
 Another successful initiative that is helping spread the message is the Nukkad Natak. These street plays by the IMC have appealed to the masses with young volunteers going to the countryside to perform   on the lines of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.
