PATNA: Chief Minister   on Monday directed officials to stop the discharge of   into water bodies, including rivers and ponds.

 Addressing a review meeting of the urban development and housing department, the CM asked the officials to install sufficient number of sewage treatment plants and use the treated sewage for irrigation purposes.
 
 “Schemes should be prepared for sewerage management to ensure that the waste water is recycled properly. Since we are focusing on organic farming, sewage water can be used for irrigation purposes,” Nitish said during the meet held at Vimarsh at the CM’s official residence.
 
 He also asked the officials to resort to composting methods for treating garbage and use solar-powered energy efficient street lights to save power. The officials told Nitish that composting with the use of low-cost technique is being done on pilot basis in seven wards in Muzaffarpur, and it has been found to be quite successful.
 
 “The CM said he would like to personally see the composting technique at Muzaffarpur and asked us to explore the possibility of replicating it in other towns as well,” said an official.
 
 Nitish also asked the officials to remove encroachments over the 400 acres of land of   (BSHB) on the western side of   and develop an integrated township on it.
 
 In a bid to resolve the 26- year-old dispute over the settlement of 1,024 acres of lands in Digha area, the state government came up with the Digha Land Acquisition Settlement Act in 2012 and Digha Land Acquisition Settlement Rules and Scheme in 2014.
 
 According to the proposed rules, people who have built their houses by encroaching upon the 604 acres of land on the eastern side of Ashiana-Digha Road, earlier acquired by BSHB, would be regularized after payment of penalty. However, the remaining 400 acres on the road’s western side is to be completely acquired by the housing board for execution of its own projects.
 
 “The CM said we should not sit on the issue and that steps should be taken on the 400 acres of land under appropriate legal framework,” the official said.
 
