 are always a time of enjoyment and agony in equal parts for parents, especially if both are working. While they do get to see and hang out with their carefree and holiday-loving kids, they do have the responsibility to constantly keep an eye out for them and satisfy their needs of not ‘feeling bored’. Their options include summer camps, sports programmes, dances and martial classes, etc., but eventually kids seem to get bored of that too.   — barbequing in our backyards, lake shores or farm houses, something that is very popular in the West — is one activity that not many families in our city indulge in, but it sure is something that can keep the kids engaged as well as entertained. We take a look at the wheres and hows of making outdoor cooking a part of your family rituals this summer…

  
 
 
  To keep it simple, using your own backyard and hosting a barbeque party is the best option any day. But having your own backyard today is almost considered a luxury, so for those who don’t have one, the terrace becomes the next best option. Or even better, nothing beats combining a road trip with outdoor cooking — say by a lake or in a farm house. But before you start cooking, make sure that neighbours are kept in the loop and are OK with all the smoke and aromas — you don’t want to be arguing with them after setting everything up.
 
  
 
 
  Portable barbeque sets are, without a doubt, the best option for outdoor cooking. Available in the market from as low as `2,000 to all the way up till `20,000, these BBQ kits come in a variety of shapes, colours and high-end features. But if you’re not one into spending money on such items, here’s how you can make a BBQ kit yourself: use round, walled aluminium pans as the base to hold the burning coal. The grills that are used to make rotis and phulkas on open flame can be used as the grill and places on top of the pans. Use wooden (or metal) skewers for barbequing and hand fans (summer essentials) for keeping the flame alive. Voila, you have you own DIY BBQ set.
 
  
 
 
  Now, what to cook is a very personal choice Here are a few favourites — paneer, capsicum, chicken, sausages, mushrooms, tofu, eggs, corn cob, etc,. For those who have a sweet tooth, try roasting marshmallows over the heat from the coal or wood fire. If you are looking to savour a proper outdoor-cooked meal, it’s best to do so over a wood fire with the right kind of equipment.
 
  
 
 
  A day spent in the outdoors, cooking along with your family and friends in the shade or amid cool evening breeze, and savouring it with cold refreshments, will surely make it a summer day to remember. A word of caution though — it’s no secret that children love to play with fire. If you make sure to take all necessary precautions, then you're all set for a fabulous holiday.
 
  
 
 
  Sandalwood actors Upendra and Priyanka along with music director   and his wife Pallavi recently had an interesting outdoor activity with their little ones. Called 
 , this is an idea to go back to basics, where everyone gets up early in the morning, pick vegetables from the farm and cook in firewood.
 
 
