PUNE: From undertaking a dry run to the   centre in order to understand the easiest available route to revising known topics instead of studying entirely new ones, experts have shared their two cent’s worth with engineering aspirants.

 The Common Entrance Test for admission to undergraduate engineering courses in the state will be held on Thursday. 
 
 Examination experts, counsellors and engineering students, who have crossed the entrance barrier, shared insights into the best last-minute   routine.
 
 Managing director of The IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra Durgesh Mangeshkar said, “My advice to engineering aspirants is that they must conserve their energy. There is just a day left for the exam and whatever you have studied is enough. Don’t go over each and every topic, just revise the main formulae, important chemical reactions, etc.”
 
 Mangeshkar added, “By now, a student must have given at least 15 mock tests and analysed the results. Even if the students haven’t been able to do much, if they want, after revision, they can attempt a mock test and see what areas they fall short in and devise a strategy accordingly.”
 
 Anuradha Bhagurkar, a student counsellor, said the students should avoid studying anything new on the eve of the exam. “The students should just revise the main points or relax in whatever manner they prefer. Never panic. Whenever you feel overwhelmed, take a deep breath and solve the next question.”
 
 Abhijeet Patil, a chemical engineer with an MNC, said, “I had a tendency to panic before exams and so I made a dry run to the exam centre a day before the exam. I would see the place from outside and ask the guard where the classes are located. I would get a feel of the place, find out where the washrooms are situated, where can one find parking, the location of the drinking water facility, and so on. This made me feel comfortable about the place.”
 
 For civil engineer Sandesh R going to the temple or a spiritual place would be a relaxing experience. 
 
