Four days into the mishap to which I lost a part of my being, I am haunted by an all-consuming thought. What if she had listened to me that night and I had dropped her back home? Would it have changed her destiny? Would I be seeing her smile today? The universe, they say , is wise; perhaps, I'm asking all the wrong questions today . But the silence from the other side conveys more than my heart can take -I have lost my Sonu and with that, a part of my life.When I met her at a nightclub on Friday night, she was her usual chirpy self as she ran to me, hugged me and said, `My man is looking so smart.' I wanted to go home early and offered to drop her home. But she wanted to enjoy the party and I didn't want to press her to leave early .

 
  
  
 
 She was a part of my being, a part of my family . Our relationship would have completed five years in August and we were planning marriage by the end of this year, soon after my sister's wedding. But look at the ways fate makes us reconstruct our hearts. I had made a home out of her arms, her warm hug, her assurance that everything will eventually be all right. In the four and a half years we had spent together, she changed me for a better person. She made me a responsible man by encouraging me to save money in a joint account so we could build a house for ourselves. She would come to my place on Sundays and ask my Ma for luchi and aloo sabzi for lunch. She was to my parents what I am to hers -their own kid. At the funeral, uncle Vijay (Singh Chauhan,  's father) introduced me to everyone as his son. At the end of a hectic day , when she slept peacefully ,I sat by her side, looking at her face, hearing her breathe. Just her presence drove away all my worries. I woke up to her sleepy voice every morning.
 
 I love her more than she'll ever know. I hope she hears what I have to say . I love her without a pause, without a doubt and with every breath that I take. She was, and will forever be, a part of me. Heaven is more beautiful now that she's there. I'm looking at the devastating turn of fate and I feel everything. The pain, the helplessness of my hands reaching out to her yet not being able to touch her. Leaving is so much easier if you don't let go.And I'm never letting you go. I have written my love down for you, Sonu. Forgive me if my handwriting is sloppy at important points.
 
 
 
