PANAJI: The   Goa International   Limited (GGIAL), a subsidiary of GMR Airports Limited, has secured funds worth Rs 1,900 crore for the development of the greenfield airport at  . The company has executed a debt facility agreement with private lender   for Rs 1,330 crore, while Rs 570 crore has been infused as equity, all of which will be utilized to develop the first phase of the airport.

 “The entire debt of Rs 1,330 crore was underwritten by Axis Bank on long tenor door-to-door basis of 18 years on competitive terms. The confidence of banks on the project reflects the intrinsic strength of the project and also the operational and delivery capability of GMR Airports Ltd,” said GMR Airports president Sidharath Kapur.
 
 The company won the bid to develop and operate the airport at Mopa last year
 
  The foundation stone for the project was subsequently laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The proposed airport is located on the Mopa plateau in Pernem taluka of North Goa, near the Maharashtra border.
 
 “GMR Group is delighted to be partnering with Goa for development of a new civilian airport, which will become the gateway to the state of Goa. Having tied up funding for the project, we are working towards starting on-ground construction activities post monsoon. We are confident that development of the new airport will significantly boost tourism in Goa and also lead to generation of employment opportunities for Goans,” GMR Airports chairman Srinivas Bommidala said.
 
 Goa has seen a tremendous growth in air traffic at the existing   at Dabolim in Vasco. Goa’s sole airport, which functions as a civilian enclave within a naval airbase, has seen passenger traffic grow at near 30% rate annually for the last three financial years.
 
 According to the directorate of civil aviation and the government of Goa, Mopa airport is expected to handle 13.1 million passengers by 2036.
 
 As per the concession agreement signed with the Goa government, GMR will design, build, finance and operate the international airport for 40 years with the option to extend its operation for another 20 years.
 
 The greenfield airport will be developed in stages and will be scaled up as per traffic growth demands, GMR officials said. “It will be a full-service airport catering to domestic and international passengers besides freight services,” Kapur said.
 
 GGIAL has invited global contractors to bid for the engineering, procurement and construction of the airport. “Work for the project will comprise site preparation, construction of terminal building, air traffic controller (ATC) tower, airside and landside infrastructure and other associated work,” said a GMR official.
 
 The company is looking for reputed contractors who have prior experience in designing, procurement and construction of airports. Soil testing at Mopa plateau has been completed and construction activity could commence after the monsoons, sources said.
 
 The GMR Group owns and operates Delhi International Airport, which has been ranked world’s second best airport by the Airports Council International (ACI)-ASQ survey. The conglomerate also operates   airport.
 
