COLVA: Come   are on a  . Earlier, the targets were usually  , who out of fear of harassment or displacement, would   for a particular candidate.

 These days, politicians have changed their strategy. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, during his visits to Goa, have met some particular communities to convince them to give his party a chance to govern Goa and now, AAP seems to have become a major contender in the state politics.
 
 One such group that political parties in Goa are trying to woo is the seafarers. Be it the seamen on cruise liners, merchant navy, oil tankers, bulk carriers, freight carriers or even oil rigs — all of them add up to a huge number of voters. And, if their families are added, together they can decide the fate of several candidates.
 
  President of the Margao-based Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI), Dixon Vaz, seemed very bitter about Congress for not helping their cause. “It is in the last five years that we have received some help from the BJP government. Most of our demands have been met and I am grateful to defence minister Manohar Parrikar and MP Narendra Sawaikar for all this. The Centre also helped us rescue a captain, who was captured by Somali pirates, two years ago,” he said.
 
 The association has about 8,000 registered seafarers. There are thousands more who have not registered themselves with any association or group. “As far as politics and elections are concerned, I cannot impose anything on the members of my association. They can make their own choice, though I am grateful to the BJP,” said Vaz. 
 
 Captain Venzy Viegas, who is a member of the Goa State Committee for AAP, besides being the official spokesperson of the party, said, “Seafarers do not have any social security. We are allowed to work as long as we are fit as we are employed on a contractual basis. The moment we are declared unfit due to some injury, we are doomed. The money we earn will not suffice a lifetime.” 
 
 “We have drafted a social security policy for NRIs and seafarers wherein seamen can deposit a fixed amount on a monthly basis with the government during their career, and either at the time of retirement or in case of an accident, the government will provide us with pension and medical insurance. If AAP comes to power, this policy would be implemented on a priority basis,” said Viegas, who is also is the mentor of the AAP Goan NRI and Seafarers’ Frontal Organisation.
 
