
The train has got all the ultra-modern amenities like on-board infotainment, wi-fi, CCTV, fire and smoke detection facilities, tea and coffee vending machine etc. General manager of central railway, who inspected the train at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Mumbai (CSTM), on Sunday, likened   with an 
  .
 
  
  
 
 
 India's first premium train will run at an average speed of 130kmph.
 
  
  
 
 The train, manufactured at the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala, will have automatic entrance door, a first in non-suburban train in Indian railways. The graffiti proof, vinyl-wrapped specially designed exterior has a bright colour theme of orange and yellow. Tejas Express has a dust-proof/sealed inter car gangway. The express will also be pressed into service in Delhi-Chandigarh and Delhi-Lucknow sectors, according to the railways.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Tejas Express would operate between Mumbai and Karmali (Goa) five days a week during non-monsoon period and three days a week during monsoon by halting at Dadar, Thane, Panvel, Ratnagiri and Kudal stations.
 
  
  
 
 
 The 20 coach train will have one executive AC chair car with 56 seating capacity and 12 AC chair cars with 78 seat capacity of each coach. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Tejas Express's 
  is Rs 2,940 (with food) and Rs 2,540 (without food), and for AC chair car the fare has been fixed at Rs 1,850 (with food) and Rs 1,220 (without food). Besides the railways has also planned optional on-board catering services.
 
  
  
 
 
 The high-speed train has all the safety measures like suppression system, fire suppression system, smoke detection and fire detection. A GPS-based passenger information display system and a digital destination board has also been installed for the convenience of the passengers.
 
  
  
 
 
 Tejas Express has also got Braille assistance installed for visually challenged passengers.
 
  
  
 
 
 The train has bio-vacuum toilets facility in all the coaches. It will also have other features like hand dryers, water level indicators and touch-less water taps.
 
  
  
 
 
 According to central railway, passengers have shown positive response in booking advance trains for the train.
 "The ticket booking started within minutes of its opening this morning and in the first four hours, 207 passengers booked tickets for the AC chair car and 10 for executive AC chair car," Central railway's chief commercial manager Shailendra Kumar said on Sunday.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
