LUCKNOW: Rebutting charges of BJP national president   that the Agra-Lucknow   was costliest in the country, top authorities in the   claimed since the BJP has no issue against chief minister   Yadav, it was leaning on false propaganda against him and spoiling his “model of good governance”.

 The state government said it has laid an example before the country with the 307km expressway project, which was appreciated even by a visiting delegation of Parliament as best model for land acquisition in the country and now it was being drawn into the controversy unnecessarily to taint the chief minister.
 
 The BJP leadership should also keep in model that the   expressway apart from having best model for the land acquisition , has also a four km long airstrip for the fighter planes which no other expressway in the making has and the quality cannot be compromised with the national security , the BJP should keep this in mind .
 
 The state government maintained that the BJP leadership was trying to undermine the biggest achievement of the chief minister, who in a record time through his good governance, created and gifted to the nation longest expressway at a much lower cost as compared to the similar projects being executed by the NHAI and private realtors in different parts of the country.
 
 “The BJP leadership should first verify facts related to expressway projects in the country and in Uttar Pradesh before leveling any charges against the chief minister’s dream projects as this is the only project to be completed much before the deadline and the government has even awarded bonus to developers for saving time and cost,” explained a government official.
 
 The government authorities maintained that the BJP leadership should take note of the report by a delegation of parliament which had not only studied the land acquisition model of the Samajwadi Party government for the Agra-Lucknow expressway in the state but had also promised to implement the same all over the country for similar projects.
 
 The official said, it was Union minister for surface transport Nitin Gadkari, who while addressing a press conference six months back had expressed concern over completion of expressways in different state for delay in smooth acquisition of land. “For the Agra- Lucknow expressway, time and cost overrun has been saved by the ideal model for land acquisition which also benefitted the farmers by providing them compensation at the market rate,” said the government official.
 
 Chief engineer of UP Industrial and Expressway Development Authority Vishwadeep told ToI that a comparative study of the expressways in other states with UP’s Agra-Lucknow expressway would prove beyond doubt that UP had cheapest cost in the per-km construction. He said the Delhi-Meerut six-lane expressway’s per-km cost is estimated to be around Rs 47/km while Agra-Lucknow cost only Rs 33 crore. Similarly, per-km cost of Lucknow’s ring road is around Rs 28.75 crore while the cost of land acquisition is not included in it and it is just four-lane while Agra expressway is six-lane with a capacity to expand to eight lanes.
 
 
