VADODARA: After the implementation of the Gujarat Self-financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Bill, 2017, fees of several schools are likely to be reduced. 

 Education experts say the direct impact of the reduction is likely to be on the quality of education as schools’ budgets may shrink. The experts suggested that schools will first start cutting extra-curricular activities and some facilities. 
 
 Cutting down the number of teachers or increasing student strength in classrooms is also another possibility. Private schools are evaluating ways to maintain quality in the face of fee caps. Suryakant Shah, founder and chairman of  , which runs three schools, has already stopped giving fresh admissions in two of his schools. 
 
 “Parents are being misguided by politicians. Every school has its own budget and fee structure based on its infrastructure, teachers and the extracurricular activities that it offers. How can you apply same rules on a school affiliated to Gujarat board and another affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education? The schools will be forced to curtail its co-curricular activities in wake of fee reduction and ultimately quality will suffer,” he said, adding that some schools may eventually shut down. 
 
 Arjun Tandon, trustee St. Kabir School said that although schools in the city will continue providing quality education, activities for wholistic development of a child will get impacted. 
 
 “Parents have to choose whether they want their child only to study or want their holistic growth. If the fees is reduced, it will naturally impact budget of each school and inter school activities, sports activities or expenses on holding annual days and teachers training programmes will get curtailed,” he said. 
 
 He said there is even a possibility that number of children enrolled in a classroom may increase if the school budget reduces. 
 
 School authorities say, expenditure will only increase with the implementation of the seventh pay commission and the need to maintain the mandated student-teacher ratio. If education quality diminishes, schools will be forced to reduce fees further as results would be poor.
 
 Sunil Dalwadi, chairperson of J C Group which runs   added that quality of education will be compromised if fees of schools are drastically reduced. 
 
 “We can offer whatever we receive. If the budget gets shrink, it will impact quality of education and co-curricular activities offered by the schools,” he said, adding that school managements have started efforts to explain the consequences of such a situation to parents as well. 
 
