HYDERABAD: It all started with the "Mauka Mauka" series of ads during the 2015 World Cup and the Bangladeshi fans retaliated with a series called "Dhore Dibani" which drew a lot of criticism. Is there a serious rivalry brewing between India and  ?

 Fast bowler   downplays the entire episode. "I don't believe in rivalry. The social media created this type of hype. As a team, we don't believe in that and there is tremendous bonhomie between the two teams," he said on Saturday. The 21-year-old, who has just played two Tests, spoke at length about the importance of the India tour. Excerpts:
 
 
 It is a really good feeling to play in India because we are playing a Test match here for the first time. It is a good platform and opportunity to show the world that we can play good cricket. India undoubtedly is one of the best teams in the world. If we perform well, it will be a big boost to our team.
 
 
 The pitch conditions are different from New Zealand. There was a lot of carry in that place and here it is a slow wicket. Sub-continent wickets are mostly flat which is good for batting and there will be a bit of turn also. So, the fast bowlers have to adjust the length. The length will be different than what we bowled in New Zealand. We need to have more variations in our bowling.
 
 
  We are practicing the reverse swing. We are still learning as we don't have experienced fast bowlers. But we can do well and we have already proved that. We need to execute our plans. We are hoping to get the reverse swing going for us.
 
 
  India have very good batsmen and the top order is very strong. It is always challenging to bowl against the top batting line up which has (Virat) Kohli in it. It will be a good feeling if I take the wicket of Kohli. After all he is the No.1 batsman in the world. Taking early wickets will be very crucial for us but getting Kohli's wicket very early in the innings will be a dream come true for me.
 
 
  Now I'm bowling much quicker. I've worked hard on my bowling and in New Zealand I was bowling quicker. I'm pretty confident about my action. We have a lot of good coaching staff like legend like  . They told me that I'm totally all right and I also went to Brisbane for a test. It was maximum seven degrees and mine was three degrees. I'm pretty confident and have no problem about that.
 
 
 (Courtney) Walsh is a legend. We are learning a lot of things from him. If we can't be better bowlers, it will be our misfortune. We have different kind of fast bowlers (swing and fast) in the team and he works with each one of us individually.
 
 
  In Bangladesh a lot of fast bowlers are emerging on the scene. In the team to owe have a good potential in this department. Of course, we are going to miss Mustafizur (Rahman). If he had been here, it would have been enjoyable. It is becoming competitive for each one of us.
 
