Nashik: The resident   of the government-run hospital in  , where an attack on a doctor triggered massive protests by their counterparts across the state, refrained from joining the agitation.

 Interestingly, all the 32 resident doctors of the Shri Bhausaheb Hire Medical College & Hospital continued treating patients, most of whom come from poor backgrounds and cannot afford treatment in private hospitals.
 
 On the night of March 12, resident doctor Rohan Mhamunkar was thrashed by the relatives of an accident victim while accusing him of not attending to the patient properly. He sustained serious injures, including in the eye. The accident victim was later taken to a private hospital where he died.
 
 Dhule hospital dean S S Gupta said that initially, due to resentment following the thrashing of the doctor, they refrained from working. “However, I reasoned with them that they cannot leave the patients in the lurch as they come from far off places for treatment.” 
 
 The doctors, including the resident doctors, treated about 600 patients daily. The seniors were also assisted by the doctors in carrying out surgeries. About 25 operations take place in the hospital daily. 
 
 “There has been absolutely no drop in the number of patients who are being treated in our hospital,” said Gupta. 
 
 According to Gupta, senior police officials of Dhule, including superintendent of police (Dhule) S Chaitanya also paid a visit to the medical college. The police officer not only reviewed the security situation, but also had a word with the resident doctors about being compassionate towards patients coming to the hospital. Chaitanya said the resident doctors were satisfied with the swift action by the police in arresting the people involved in the attack on the doctor within two days of the incident. “At the same time, we were also in touch with the resident doctors and members of the IMA from time to time and assured them that such an incident will not occur again,” he said. The SP said that the cops also met the resident doctors a few days later and assured them that the college administration was briefed about security measures so that such incidents do not recur. 
 
 
