Gurgaon: Adya and Arya are twin sisters from Sector 43. The unassuming, bespectacled girls are unable to hide their mirth while laughing and rifling through sheaves of books, hardbound, colourful and graphic-rich.

 “I am grabbing this one,” says Arya as she reaches for Blue Umbrella by Ruskin Bond. Her sister merely nods her head in a solemn agreement.
 
 It is not always they found themselves surrounded by books as many as they are now. On Saturday, Gurgaon hosted its first-ever   2017 where young bibliophiles had a field day getting snippets on writing while romping away with some of their treasured paperbacks.
 
 “It’s quite better an alternative than visiting malls and multiplexes on weekends,” said Sumedha, a parent.
 
 The event was thronged by an array of published   who had come from different cities across the country. “There was a lot of talk about the Jaipur Literary Festival that concluded recently. I wanted to do something of the similar kind for the children,” said Sandy Hooda, co-founder, Vega Schools whose brainchild was this event. 
 
 The two-day event will also witness book reading, puppet shows and writing workshop. The fest was open for children between the age group of five to 12 years. Hooda said this event will enable children to get accustomed to reading practices from an early age. 
 
 “In the current literary scenario, we don’t have much people interested in the long form of literary or journalistic work. When children are exposed to reading frequently at this tender age, the habit is bred into them,” he said.
 
 Harleen Mohanty, head of the Vega Schools, said the festival was a way of nurturing abilities among children that help them sustain in the 21st century. “Events like these nurture aspect the creativity, imagination and communication among children.” Seema Wahi Mukherjee, a storyteller who attended the festival, said the children too were supposed to have their own share of literary carnival. “As adults you visit a clutch of places where your literary ambitions are catered to. For children, nothing as such was thought about. Until now,” she said.
 
 
