BIJNOR: As many as four farmers got electrocuted and one got injured after coming in contact with a low-hanging 440 V low tension wire cable in Bijnor’s Vijay Nangla village on Wednesday.
 
  The farmers had complained in the past to the power department about the low-hanging wire cable but allegedly no action was taken by the officials.
  
  The farmers suffered electric shock when they were trying to fix the low-hanging wire. They died on the spot, police said. The deceased have been identified as Mukesh Kumar, 35, Mahesh Kumar, 26, Jaidev Singh, 25 and Monu Kumar, 24.
  
  District magistrate  , the superintendent engineer of power corporation, local   MLA   reached the spot and expressed grief over the tragic incident.
  
  Talking to TOI, the district magistrate said, “Four farmers have died of electrocution. The deceased were tightening the low-hanging wires when the incident occurred. When I reached Vijay Nangla village, villagers complained to me about the electricity wires hanging down in clusters from electrical poles. I have talked to the MD of power-corporation in this regard. He assured me that all loose wires will be replaced within 15 days. I have also set up an inquiry in this regard. If any lapse is found, a strict action will be taken against the erring person.”
  
  “Power corporation has given compensation to the families of the deceased. Besides, Rs 5 lakh will be given to each family under   and Rs 30,000 will be provided under  ,” he added.
  
  Meanwhile, superintendent engineer of PVNL Ranjeet Singh claimed that his department did not receive any such complaints. “The farmers did not make any complaints to tighten the wires. They were doing it themselves. Even, they did not asked any shut down from the power authorities. However we are probing the matter thoroughly.”
  
  Blaming the SP government for the flawed infrastructure, BJP MLA Lokendra Chauhan said, “We need some time to improve the infrastructure. I had raised this issue during SP government’s regime but no wire was replaced. Now, I have asked the authorities to resolve this issue.”
