NASHIK: After taking a beating at the Swachh Survekshan, the civic administration has decided to build 4,500 more toilets in order to make the city 100% open-defecation free (ODF). 

 One of the main highlights of the cleanliness survey was  's failure to be 100% ODF.
 
 The survey stated that the city did not achieve the target of having 5% gap of the applications of household toilets approved and constructed and failed to construct 90% of community toilets or personal toilets (CT/PT). 
 
 The survey further stated in the ODF sector that Nashik is not an ODF city yet, even though the   (NMC) claims that over 75% of the wards are ODF. 
 
 In an earlier survey conducted by the NMC, 7,528 toilets needed to be built to make the city ODF. Ahead of the deadline, the civic body reduced the number to 6,546 saying that some people did not have the space or did not find the need for toilets as they had access to community toilets. 
 
 Out of the funds under the union government's Swacch Bharat Mission of Rs 10.41 crore, there is still a remainder of Rs 3.38 crore which the civic body is ready to use for 4,500 citizens who demanded toilets during a recent survey.
 
 "All of them will get the first instalment of Rs 6,000. The additional number of toilets will take the total to over 10,000," said an NMC official.
 
 In the second survey, there was a demand for 4,694 toilets which the NMC decided to approve and 4,500 toilets will be constructed. The maximum demand is in   with 1,620 toilets, Satpur with 750 toilets,   with 738 toilets,   with 348 toilets, East with 120 toilets and West with 318 toilets.
 
 "Isn't it a pre-requisite that the toilets be constructed where people have space for it? Why is the NMC saying that people returned the money because they did not have space or had access to community toilets? The basic criteria for ODF under Swachh Bharat Mission is that toilets be constructed for people who have space or don't have access to community toilets, which means either the survey was wrong or it was right then and was withdrawn after the NMC realised that it cannot meet the deadline. It seems the NMC has goofed up," said an engineer Sudhakar Shekhar.
 
