ALLAHABAD: Amid  ,   have found only three centres across the state where   were being dictated answers by invigilators. 

 The Board would get the answer sheets of these   to confirm mass cheating after which action will be taken against those found to be involved.
 
 The centres include   Inter College in Bareilly, Pankaj Smarak Kanya Inter College and Ajay Pal Higher Secondary School in Sambhal. 
 
 Board officials said a flying squad had found some invigilators allegedly dictating answers to students during a raid at the three colleges on March 20 and 21. The raiding team was led by a   (SDM).
 
 "The answer sheets of students at each class of the reported centres will be scrutinised and compared with each other. If answers are found to be written verbatim, then action will be taken accordingly," secretary, UP Board, Shail Yadav, said on Wednesday.
 
 Yadav added that so far at least 5,25,021 examinees have been recorded as absent in the ongoing High School and Intermediate Board exams across the state. "These students had registered online with the help of copying mafia. Earlier, they used to register manually from several schools and managed to pass from one school which has been restricted in online application the Board has introduced," she told TOI.
 
 Board officials claimed that such a large number of examinees are leaving exams due to the strict measures adopted by the Board.
 
 "Most of the examinees leaving exams are from 31 districts earmarked as sensitive by us. Repeating previous years' performance, maximum number of 30,314 absentees are from Ghazipur followed by 24,477 from Aligarh. Hardoi is third with 24,149 students leaving exams," Yadav said.
 
 "At least 3,20176 students have been recorded as absent in High School while 2,04,845 examinees have left Intermediate exam. While sensitive districts Gazipur, Hardoi and Allahabad topped the chart in class X, Azamgarh, Gazipur and Aligarh topped in class XII," she added.
 
 Two separate teams of district inspector of school (DIoS) and administrative officials are entrusted to conduct inspection at examination centres during ongoing UP Board exams. Each district is divided into sectors comprising of 10 to 12 examination centres and a magistrate moniters exams at these centres, officials informed TOI. 
 
 The sector magistrate is of the rank of a city magistrate, SDM or equivalent rank. Additional magistrates monitor exams in all the centres of a district.
 
 Following past year incidents of flying squad or invigilators subjected to assaults by copying mafia, chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar this year directed divisional commissioners and district magistrates across the state to ensure deployment of adequate police personnel at every centre.
 
