NEW DELHI: In a bid to win over India to the the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor ( ) project, an editorial in China's state-run Global Times urged India to be more "flexible and pragmatic" over the   occupied Kashmir ( ) issue.

 Dubbing India's objection to the multi-billion dollar CPEC project as a "new friction point" in Sino-India relations, the editorial advises India to be more open to economic activities in PoK and not consider it a threat to Indian sovereignty.
 
 "The CPEC won't affect the status quo of Kashmir disputes... The investment from Chinese companies and their participation in some architectural construction won't affect the situation of Kashmir either," the editorial claims.
 
 China then draws a parallel with its purportedly positive attitude towards  's fiscal ties with other countries despite the One China policy.
 
 "Just like the Taiwan question, Beijing doesn't object any economic links between Taiwan and other countries including India, because economic activities won't alter China's sovereignty over the island. Hence, India should be flexible and pragmatic, and be more open to economic activities in the Kashmir region conducted by Chinese companies," the article said.
 
 The op-ed piece reiterated China's neutral stand on the Kashmir dispute, and hopes for a resolution through peace talks between India and Pakistan.
 
 At a recent strategic bilateral dialogue with China, India had conveyed its concerns regarding CPEC and called it a violation of India's sovereignty.
 
 "CPEC violates Indian sovereignty because it runs through PoK. Since they (China) are a country who have been very sensitive to sovereignty concerns, it was for them to say how a country whose sovereignty has been violated can come on an invitation," foreign secretary   said in response to China's invitation to join CPEC.
 
 The CPEC is part of the One Belt, One Road (OBOR) Initiative, which aims to link countries in Asia, Africa and Europe to promote "an open and inclusive global economy" by building regional trade networks and enhancing connectivity for future growth. 
 
 China has invited India to take part in the Silk Road summit to be held in Beijing in May, stressing the "potential economic benefits" of CPEC and packaging it as a project promoting greater regional cooperation.
 
 
