MUMBAI: In a move that could have repercussions across the city’s private clubs, the Bombay Gymkhana managing committee voted last week to give permanent membership to senior  . A series of actions and threats by various government departments, the latest being the denial of a liquor licence for the club’s New Years Eve party, could have catalyzed the decision. Many members are not even aware of the move.

 The 140-year-old south Mumbai sports club has been battling a controversial proposal to allow service members, or bureaucrats, to use the club’s facilities even after they retire from their public posts. Some senior officials have allegedly been pushing for this and using their offices to   the club from functioning seamlessly, some members say. The club has been afflicted with delays in repair permissions and an overhanging threat that their lease —the land belongs to the state government—will not be renewed. Recently, its parking facilities were taken away.
 
 “This is clearly a case of the bureaucracy pushing an institution into a corner and threatening its very survival and its space,” says a member, a view that is being echoed by a growing number of members who have watched with dismay as their club comes under threat. 
 
 “Every one is living in fear, because they have been told that everything is going to be taken away one by one,” says another member. Even beyond the club, the   controversy has raised issues of exclusivity, public land and government high-handedness.
 
 Meanwhile, the controversy has catalyzed deep fissures within the club members as well as within the managing committee. Some question how a bureaucrat can be given membership at token price of Rs 5 lakh, given that some members’ children recently paid Rs 30 lakh for their membership only recently. Others are protesting that this decision had already been turned down by the general body in a special ballot last June, which required at least 75% to vote in favour of it. The resolution had offered a new category of ‘ordinary membership’ to bureaucreats above a certain rank. 
 
 Bypassing this general body, the committee has now voted in favour of giving, not ordinary, but permanent membership to service members—which entitles them to voting rights, the right for their children to become members, and the right to join the managing committee. There are currently more than 100 service members in the club.
 
 “My father was in the police force. We used to be service members. And when it was over, we gracefully opted out,” says a member’s wife. “This is going to open a Pandora’s Box for not just the club, but the city in general.”
 
 In a series of articles last year, TOI had reported how the entire government machinery seemed to have descended with a vengeance on the high-profile south Mumbai club, after it rejected a controversial proposal to offer life-long membership to senior IAS officers last June.
 
 The state excise department, Mumbai city collector's office, fire brigade and BMC have caught the 140-year-old club in a pincer attack with simultaneous inspections and notices for a slew of alleged violations. These included flouting fire safety norms, illegal constructions and serving liquor in the verandah area.
 
 
