PUNE: Several city-based   and   are up in arms   (CWCs) here.

 Alleging mismanagement and  , representatives from around a dozen organizations - led by Dnyana Devi Childline Pune's honorary director Anuradha Sahasrabudhe - have written to the Pune collector about the same, requesting him to take corrective steps before making fresh appointments to the government-appointed bodies.
 
 “There have been repeated complaints about the insensitive and callous functioning of CWCs, causing a lot of distress to children and gross violation of child rights,“ said the letter. “Two members were caught red-handed accepting bribes last year, but they continued to officiate till Childline intervened. The NGO workers visiting CWC are regularly insulted and parentscaretakers ill-treated. Concerns have been repeatedly raised over appointment procedures to these posts,“ it added. The director of an NGO, requesting anonymity , spoke of one such instance. “My social workers had gone to the CWC office, more than 50km from our shelter home, just to get some papers signed.They had to wait for a long time as the officials were not available.When they finally did arrive, only two turned up, instead of the required three for signatures. As a result, my team had to come back empty-handed, and return a few days later, all the way there, for the same purpose. This is very common,“ she said.
 
 The activists also alleged that the office of the collector is dragging its feet on the matter. “The collector told our delegation that he would call a meeting of the   (WCD) commissioner, police commissioner and Childline NGO representatives if needed to address the concerns raised. However, despite reminders there has not been any follow-up on the matter,“ the organizations said in a statement.
 
 Responding to the allegations, Rajendra Muthe, resident deputy collector told TOI, “We received complaints only about the non-availability of the CWC members.However, our checks revealed that they are present in their offices at the stipulated time between noon and 2pm. The WCD department may deal with the other issues.“
 
 Meanwhile, P B Shirke, WCD divisional officer, stonewalled enquiries from TOI. “It is a confidential matter,“ Shirke said. “We have already forwarded the report to the commissioner.“
 
 No further questions were entertained by his office thereafter.
 
 Anita Vipat, CWC chairperson, too refused to respond to the allegations. “I don't know what you are talking about,“ she said, “We are being unnecessarily pressurized by some people.“
 
