KANPUR: Former chief minister  's uncle, Shivpal Yadav once again threatened to form a secular front. After asking Akhilesh repeatedly to step down from the post of   president, Shivpal Yadav, once again while addressing media in   on Wednesday, spoke defiantly and said, "He (Akhilesh) had asked for three months, and now I am giving him three months to either step down, or I will form a secular front." 

 Without taking names, Shivpal lashed out at his cousin Ram Gopal describing him as 'Shakuni' (the Mahabharat character who masterminded the feud between Kauravs and the Pandavs), and suggested to him reading the Bhagwat Gita first. "What he (Ram  ) has done, only Shakuni- Mama did, so, it's my request to him to first read the Gita." 
 
 After the major poll debacle, Shivpal Yadav has been for the past few days making statements asking his nephew and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav to step down from the post of party president. 
 
 On Wednesday, prior to making an anouncement of forming a secular front, he once again demanded Akhilesh Yadav to step down from the post on the moral grounds. 
 
 "He should hand over the post to Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) so that once again we unite, proceed and work in the better interests of the party," he said. 
 
 Earlier, on Sunday, Ram Gopal Yadav had said Shivpal had not read the party's constitution and doesn't know about its functioning. The comment came following Shivpal's demand for Akhilesh to step down from the post of SP chief. 
 
 Shivpal, meanwhile, also criticised the Tuesday incident wherein Sudhir Yadav, a bus driver of a private school was beaten up by police personnel inside Vaidpura police station of the district following which he had staged a dharna.
 
 Shivpal praised chief minister   describing him as a person with strong will power but at the same time he said Yogi's officers were behaving like goons. "On one hand, police were torturing Sudhir in lock-up, while on the other, goons broke open the doors of his house in Vaidpura. I will appeal to the chief minister to take stern action against such guilty officers, who are working against his will," said Shivpal.
 
