An attempt to gather more hits and likes on social media proved fatal for two students of a school in   –   and   – who went to a railway track for clicking pictures and videos.

  
  When   was warned by the Railways
 
 They stood at a spot between two railway tracks to click their pictures and videos with an approaching train in the background. As the train sped towards them, they quickly jumped on the other track, but another speeding train came from the opposite direction and hit them.
 
  
  The video was hugely popular on social media and gathered 4,73,525 views
 
 
 
 These youngsters were taking ‘daring selfies’ and shooting a stunt video. The group had hired a DSLR camera for the purpose. Parwaiz Ahmed, DCP (Railways) was quoted as saying, "The camera which was used for the photo shoot had some pictures and videos also. The photographs show that they were jumping from one track to another." The police has sent the video for analysis.
 
  A police official posted near   area, says, "This is quite common, and we often spot youngsters shooting photos or videos of a passing train, but it comes to light only when such an incident happens.They pick isolated areas for shooting such videos, and are prepared to escape. If they are spotted making such videos, they run away." He adds, "The railway tracks near   and Akshardham are the two most popular spots for shooting such videos, as the Metro is close by, and the students can commute easily. Students also go to Ghaziabad and Old Delhi Railway station to record such stunts. We do keep a vigil; the PCR also gets calls when somebody spots youngsters doing any such stunts. Those who make such videos keep changing the time and location of shooting such stunts, so this sense can’t be instilled in someone."
 
  
  These boys from Maharashtra take pictures near an approaching train on a bridge just to take a perfect shot
 
 
 
 Amit*, a class IX student who lives in Laxmi Nagar, says, "It’s very common to see such stunts. You can’t perform them in front of a Metro, but railway tracks are the best place to perform them. I don’t make any such videos, but my friends often go to the railway tracks, and I accompany them. Obviously, shooting such stunts is quite risky. I always have cold feet whenever I want to to do such stunts, but I still want to try it someday."
 
  Ashish*, a class IX student who lives in Mayur Vihar, and has witnessed the shooting of several stunt videos, shares his experience, and says, "You can’t shoot and perform a stunt simultaneously, that’s why we go in groups to perform such stunts. We don’t want to break any rules, but we want to perform it on the track, although we can’t perform stunts like professionals do. I can’t imagine doing a Kick stunt, but it’s very common to escape an approaching train. While shooting such stunts, we don’t want to die, so complete preparation to escape, and knowledge about the timing of the trains on a particular track is crucial."
 
  
  In this video, in order to get the perfect shot, boys are seen waiting on a bridge in Ghaziabad district, before jumping one by one into the Upper Ganga Canal
 
  
 Post the release of the Salman Khan-starrer Kick in 2014, a youngster posted a stunt video inspired by the film, which got over 1,08,675 views in less than 24 hours. 
 
  
  Note : Do not perform stunts in front of running trains
 
 It’s the number of views that inspires people to upload such videos on social media. Most videos of railway track stunts have over 2 lakh views. Some videos, like 'Fooling around speeding train' have garnered over 1,68,412 views. 'Crazy guy Kick stunt' has got over 2,07,986 views. 
 
  An RPF official told us that although such rash behaviour is punishable, but the brains behind such videos mostly go untraced. Also, as Mumbai has local trains, such videos are more common there as compared to Delhi.
 
 
