MUMBAI: As the first round of admissions under the  , 2009 concluded in Mumbai on Saturday, only 47% of the students who were allotted a seat could secure their place in city schools.

 This year, for the first ro und of online admissions to the 25% seats reserved under the RTE Act in unaided non-minority schools, the   (BMC) had received over 9,400 applications for 7,449 seats at both the pre-primary and class I level. Of the total applicants, 3,720 students were allotted 6,685 seats, with several getting multiple choices. Only 40% of the applicants were allotted a seat.
 
 However, as of Saturday , only 1,749 students could procure admissions at schools allotted to them. Parents claimed that several schools turned them back and they did not receive enough assistance from BMC officials. “The surname mentioned on my income certificate was wrong and hence, the school refused to give us the admission form even as other documents were in order. We were told to get the certificate attested from BMC. The attestation took two days and by the time we went back to the school, the deadline was over. Now, we do not know if our application will be accepted on Monday,“ said Fatima Sheikh, a parent from Charkop.
 
 BMC officials, however, said that the response in the first round was better as compared to previous years. “This time, there are very few rejections.Last year, there were only about 2,500 successful applications even after multiple rounds; so this is an improvement. All seats that have been are left vacant will be carries forward to the next round, which will be held in the coming week,“ said an official.
 
 There were 764 seats across 39 schools which received no applications. “Due to lack of demand, seats are getting wasted.Parents should keep their options open and not be very selective. During the admission, several parents came to us with requests to change the schools allotted to them; it is not possible as the process is online,“ added the official.
 
 Students who had been allotted a seat in this round but did not approach the slotted school will not get a chance in the next rounds.
 
