We hear a certain actor has had more than one rude awakening this week. Looks like this actor was asked to stay in character all too well. But haven’t they heard what they say? If you’re going to play with matches make sure you don’t leave them around to spark the flame anew. 

 I don't attend too many premieres, but happened to be there for the first show of One. The film was fun, but what happened outside the theatre was even funnier. It all started before the show. The stars were trooping in, in ones and twos, hanging around and smiling for the cameras. The popcorn was selling, the security guards were looking busy. Then in a quiet rush, the hero of the film,  , walked in -and there was pandemonium. 
 
 Suddenly a bevy of young and not-so-young women, dressed in shiny , zari-embroidered dresses lunged at him. “Yash, Yash, Yash,“ they started screaming, as if on cue. He was hugged, handed flowers.There was a clockwork efficiency to their performance, which the film, sadly, lacked, but that's another story.
 
 I saw the craze, but put it away as fan adulation. Then, at the interval, when Yash came out for a break, the entire routine -lunge, scream, adore -was repeated again. The same faces, the same act. It's then that I realised that something was not quite right. I made a few discreet enquiries and the truth came tumbling out.Apparently , the fans were there not by accident, but by design. They had been planted by the film's promotional team to create hype around Yash, who needs all the propping up he can get at this point, especially since he's being projected as  's successor. Reportedly , there are fake accounts on Twitter as well to create hype about One. Frankly , I have no problems with `managing' perception. Our politicians do it, our sports stars do it -so why shouldn't a hero do it?
 
 But all of it would be okay if the planted fans and the fake Twitter chatter could generate box-office revenue. Last heard, One was struggling to fight off the twin onslaught of   and  .
 
 
