NAGPUR: The BJP’s win in the recent   elections is being attributed to its social engineering concept of accommodating almost all sections of the society while nominating candidates. This is also reflected in the party’s candidates nominated for the post of mayor, deputy mayor, leader of the house and standing committee chairman in the 151-member NMC House.

 The BJP on Monday nominated two-time corporator  , who belongs to influential Kunbi (OBC) community, for the mayor’s post. The post was reserved for corporator from general women category this time.
 
 For deputy mayor’s post, BJP nominated first time corporator Deepraj Pardikar, who hails from Halba Kosti community, which dominates Central Nagpur. Similarly, its new standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, a former deputy mayor, is a Dalit. On the other hand, BJP named Sandip Joshi, a Brahmin and close confidante of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, as the ruling party leader.
 
 Divisional commissioner   has assigned district collector   the task of conducting elections for the post of mayor, deputy mayor and 16 NMC standing committee members on March 5 at 10am. Scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations would also happen on the same day.
 
 The BJP will also name 12 corporators for the standing committee while the Congress will name four on the same day.
 
 Ex-mayor and MLC Anil Sole, who was the BJP leader in-charge of NMC elections, made the announcement in the presence of party workers and corporators following which Jichkar filed her nomination papers today. Outgoing mayor Pravin Datke, MLA Sudhakar Kohale, senior corporators Dayashankar Tiwari and Sandip Joshi, ex-mayor Maya Iwnate and others accompanied Jichkar for filing the nomination form. Her name was proposed by outgoing mayor Pravin Datke and seconded by ex-mayor Satish Holey.
 
 In addition to the candidates of the ruling alliance, opposition candidates too filed papers for the seats of mayor and deputy mayor. With 29 corporators, Congress corporator Sneha Nikose and Nitish Gwalbanshi filed their nominations for the post of mayor and deputy mayor.
 
 Even the BSP, which has 10 corporators, fielded Vandana Chandekar for the post of mayor and Narendra Walde for deputy mayor.
 
 There are 151 members in Nagpur Municipal Corporation with 108 from BJP, 29 from Congress, 10 from BSP, 2 from  , one from NCP and 1 independent candidate. Elections for both posts will be held on March 5. With the BJP enjoying majority in the 108-member civic body, Jichkar and Pardikar will comfortably win the elections.
 
 After filing her nomination papers, Jichkar said, “The post of mayor is not for celebration. In fact, it is a post of responsibility. With the support of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, NMC’s focus will be on development without wasting time.” 
 
