BENGALURU: Police have advised the   (KSCA) to install barbed wire on the peripheral walls of   as an additional security measure.

 At a recent meeting with police commissioner Praveen Sood and home minister G Parameshwara, KSCA officials were asked to put up the anti-climb concertina wire (barbed wire formed in coils) much like those in defence units. Currently, the stadium walls are topped with a security mesh.
 
 “We told them we would be able to erect the barbed wire only for the G stand for the India-England T20 match on February 1. We will cover the entire periphery by the time we host the Test match against Australia in March,“ sources told TOI on Friday .
 
 Sood confirmed the recommendation that barbed wire should be installed on the stadium's wall.
 
 Elaborating on the security measures for the T20 match, a senior IPS officer said the internal security division of state police had proposed changes in the arrangements across the city.
 
 Among the recommendations for Chinnaswamy Stadium was installing concertina wire over the wall to prevent intrusions, the IPS officer added.
 
 Tight security
 
 Bomb squads and sniffer dogs will comb the stadium at regular intervals once police take over the security on Monday for the February 1 match. Around 2,000-3,000 policemen will be deployed in and around the stadium on the match day.
 
 Like last year, the entire periphery of the stadium, the Gandhi statue and a designated area in the adjoining   overlooking  's Road will be lit up at night in the run-up to the match to ensure there are no dark spots in the vicinity.
 
 “We will install 210 LED lights as police feel it can help them monitor the area better.Electronic surveillance will be top class with around 124 cameras installed at various points in the stadium and 10 at Gandhi statue and Cubbon Park. A good number of these cameras come with the pan, tilt and zoom facility, significantly increasing the coverage area,“ the sources said.
 
 The G stand, also known as the gallery, will continue to get special attention with experts and policemen at the venue observation centre at the Cubbon Road-end keeping an eye on this stand on the match day. Eight cameras were installed in the stand for a tighter vigil a couple of seasons ago perhaps because of the trouble witnessed there in the past.
 
 For spectators, multi-tier security checks will be the order of the day on February 1.While door frame metal detectors, turnstiles and frisking will be part of security checks, the process, spread across four layers, begins virtually on the sidewalks that lead the spectators to the gates.
 
 “Parking arrangements are being made at Kanteerava Stadium, St Joseph's Indian High School and Boys High School, St Marks Cathedral and other places. “With food and water banned, spectators are requested not to get them.This time, flex boards listing the banned items will be displayed at counters selling tickets on Saturday at the stadium,“ sources said.
 
