BHOPAL: Following a steep rise in   in the aftermath of demonetisation, the state capital is now gradually shifting back to cash transactions.

 From   to   the cash transactions have again started. A sudden jump in cashless transactions was registered in the city after the note ban. “Before November 8, 2016 there were hardly 2% buyers who were using credit/debit cards at the petrol pumps. However, the number shot up to 35% after the demonetisation,” said MP Petrol Pumps Dealers Association president Ajay Singh. The situation changed by the end of December last year. “The number of customers using cards to purchase fuel dipped to 25%,” said Singh. There are 105 petrol pumps in the city. About the reason behind the decline in customers using cards, he said it might be because of the availability of cash in the market. “I can’t say it for sure, but it may be because of the easy availability of cash now,” he said.
 
 The scenario is no different when it comes to grocery stores. There are around 50,000 grocery stores in Bhopal.   president Sunil Punjabi said the customer is not prepared to shift to cashless transactions at present. “Hardly 4 to 5 per cent retailers are into cashless transactions. The situation is even worse among the dealers. Hardly 2% dealers are into cashless transaction,” said Punjabi.
 
 Citing the reason for not much cashless transactions, he said, “For buying a chocolate or even one kg of rice neither customer nor vendor are ready to swipe card or paying through any other payment gateways. It will take time.” Even the roadside vendors who have started using payment gateways felt that people are also keen on making cash payment as the flow of cash is returning to normal in the market. “For past one week I am getting more payments in cash. I had started the service to facilitate cashless payment, but people are in such haste that they do not want to spend much time on making payment for a tea or samosa,” said Prakash Chandra, a small breakfast shop vendor.
 
 Few vendors felt that it will take time to inculcate the habit of cashless transaction. “After the increase ATM withdrawal limit to Rs 10000 a day customers have started returning to the cash mode,” said another street vendor selling Chinese food.
 
