BENGALURU: Nearly 1,000 students from medical colleges affiliated to   University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) staged a demonstration at State Bank of Mysore Circle on Tuesday against the move to shift the varsity headquarters from Jayanagar to Ramanagara. The students say the move will inconvenience them as graduates are yet to get degree certificates.

 Amit Hegde, an MBBS student and president of the Karnataka State Medical Stu dents Union, said shifting of the campus to Ramanagara will add to the woes of students from north Karnataka and other states. “Many of us will have to make several rounds between the Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) and the university to obtain degree and no-objection certificates, register with the KMC and to complete other formalities. It is much better if both are in the same place.Further, they are using the university funds to set up the new campus,“ he said.
 
 Members of the faculty and the management also came out in support of the students. Dr  , senate member at RGUHS and professor at a medical college, said its a violation of the autonomy of the university. “It is the money of the students and only they have the right to use it; it should not be used for capital gain. Our students are not interested in this 'health city' that is supposed to come up, they care about education, infrastructure and a convenient atmosphere. Students should have been informed. As their representatives, the faculty and senate syndicate were not consulted. The government is free to build anything they want, but they must not do it with the money of students.“
 
 Manish, a II year student of  , said what is needed is a research centre, not a new campus far away.
 
 “There's no place here for us to do our research. For everything, we have to go to Nimhans. Not a single stu dent wants the campus to be shifted, but everyone wants better facilities,“ he said.
 
 `Other depts will be moved depending on space'
 
 The RGUHS on Tuesday informed the high court that based on the availability of space at the   in Ramanagara, other departments will be shifted.
 
 “It's the obligation of the university to ensure the examination work, interest of students and day-to-day administration are not hampered,“ said C M  , registrar. The petitioners urged the court to retain Bengaluru as an additional campus.
 
 Additional advocate general A S Ponnanna said the petition filed by a batch of principals and vice-principals is not maintainable.
 
