LUCKNOW: Top Muslim clerics and   of the vexed Ramjanmabhumi-Babri Masjid case on Tuesday said they were open to the idea of an amicable solution to the issue under the supervision of the Surpeme Court. 

 “We welcome the initiative taken by the CJI and there can always be a new beginning to an issue of such a nature which involves the sentiments of two communities,” said All India Muslim Personal Law Board ( ) general secretary Maulana Wali Rehmani. “The issue can be resolved amicably,” he told TOI. Till now the Board has maintained that the   should decide the matter.
 
 AIMPLB’s views gain further credence on the issue as India’s top Islamic seminaries including Darul Uloom, Deoband in Saharanpur and Nadwatul Ulama in Lucknow, have repeatedly claimed that they would follow the board’s view on the issue. 
 
 However, senior lawyer Zafaryab Jilani was guarded in his response. Representing the Sunni Waqf Board in the case in the Supreme Court, Jilani, who is also the convener of the Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC) said: “We are open to CJI Justice JS Khehar’s idea as we have faith in the Supreme Court.” He however hastened to add that he was yet to receive any such intimation from the court in writing. “Once we get anything in writing from the court, we will certainly consider it,” he said.
 
 He, however, dismissed BJP leader Subramanian Swamy’s proposal of an amicable solution as meaningless on grounds that it was being initiated by a private individual not a party to the case. “As an individual not a litigant, his comments are just his views,” he said. 
 
 “VHP or Nirmohi Akhara, which are a party to the case, don’t talk of any amicable solution,” Jilani said. He said earlier, one such attempt of finding an amicable solution had hit the road block when VHP had said a mosque couldn’t be built anywhere in Ayodhya and talked of offering land to build a mosque outside Ayodhya’s limits. 
 
 “Since VHP and Nirmohi Akhara are a party in the case, their stance is what counts,” he said. 
 
