AGRA: The   has ordered the transfer of the trial in the rape and murder of PhD student Neha Sharma, who was found dead with multiple wounds in a laboratory of Agra’s   on March 15, 2013, outside Uttar Pradesh.
 
  The apex court order came on the plea filed by Neha's father,   Sharma, seeking the transfer of the ongoing trial in an Agra sessions court to anywhere outside UP due to "security concerns and speedy justice". Richpal, who shifted to Delhi from Agra in 2016, told TOI that the SC order was issued on Thursday.
  
  The father of the victim said he had filed the plea for transfer of the case as he feared denial of justice due to the influential background of the accused, Uday Swaroop. “It’s been three years since the trial started but justice still eludes us,” he alleged, adding that the family wanted the trail to be conducted speedily, as was done in the Nirbhaya rape and murder case.
  
  Richpal said he had shifted to Delhi along with his family as they were being repeatedly threatened by people close to the family of the accused. “We also fear that witnesses in the case could be coerced to turn hostile,” he said, adding that even though details about Neha’s murder were public knowledge, it was made to look as if the suspects were unknown individuals because the actual accused belonged to an influential family.
  
  “Prem Kumar, the maternal grandfather of the accused, is a very senior retired IAS officer of UP cadre, president of Radha Soami Satsang Sabha and is the chairman of Dayal Bagh Education Institute, where my daughter was murdered,” said Richpal, who retired from the Army as honorary subedar major, adding that his family’s life had changed with this single incident.
  
  “It’s not just a case of sexual assault and murder of a human being but also an assault on our trust and belief in the system as the accused and his family think that they are above the law,” Richpal said, hoping that his daughter would not be denied justice.
  
  Richpal said he had mentioned in his plea to the Supreme Court that the UP government on July 23, 2013 had issued a notification requesting the CBI to investigate the case, thereby clearly indicating that the state government was itself not satisfied with the investigations done by UP police.
  
  Neha, a 23-year-old PhD scholar, was found dead in a laboratory with 12 deep cuts, allegedly inflicted with a paper cutter and a surgical blade, on March 15, 2013. Uday, who was her senior and prime accused in the case, was arrested by the police after initial investigations.
  
  The case was transferred to CBI in August 2013 and the agency filed a 480-page chargesheet against Uday in January last year for rape, murder and causing disappearance of evidence. He was arrested again on May 13, 2016 and his bail plea was rejected by a court in Agra on May 24.
