BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister   is under pressure after newly anointed Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath, in his first cabinet meeting,   worth Rs 36,359 crore. The   is said to be the biggest ever in the country by any state.

 Under pressure from the Shiv Sena to dole out similar favours, Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis announced that he would reassess the state’s financial situation and take a decision.
 
 Interestingly, on the same day that the Yogi government announced its decision in UP, the Tamil Nadu government decided to waive loans of all farmers after the Madras high court intervened and directed that the loan waiver should cover all sections of farmers.
 
 In Karnataka, the opposition BJP and JD(S) stepped up pressure on the  , demanding a similar waiver for Karnataka’s farmers. During the bypoll campaign in Nanjangud and Gundlupet that concluded on Friday, BJP leaders turned the heat on Siddaramaiah soon after Aditya Nath announced the loan waiver.
 
 “Siddaramaiah was repeatedly blaming the BJP for its inability to waive farm loans but he is silent on the issue after Aditya Nath announced the loan waiver. The CM cannot fool the people all the time,” BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa said at one of the rallies.
 
 JD(S) state president H D Kumaraswamy, who took a chopper to fulfil the last wish of a farmer who committed suicide on Thursday, leaving behind a note that he wanted the former chief minister to participate in his last rites, said he would go on a padayatra if the state government failed to waive farm loans, as Uttar Pradesh had done. He said the CM should take immediate measures to provide solutions for problems faced by farmers, and not mere compensation after they commit suicide.
 
 Aware that giving in to their demand was certain to provoke a fiscal crisis and derail his Ahinda agenda, Siddaramaiah has set a rider: he would heed the opposition demand only if the Centre waives 50% of the crop loans availed by state farmers from nationalized banks. His argument is that only 20% to 22% of farmers will benefit if the state alone waives farmers’ loans. But 78% to 80% of the farmers who have taken loans from nationalized banks, over which the Centre has control, will be left in the lurch. Crop loans from cooperative societies account for Rs 10,000 crore, as against Rs 35,000 crore from nationalized banks.
 
 A party source, however, said Siddaramaiah would prefer to go for a loan waiver closer to the 2018 election for two reasons: to ensure it remains in the voters’ memory and to pass the burden on to the next government.
 
