KOLKATA: Union minister Babul Supriyo’s parents had never anticipated such a turn of events in front of their house on  . Barely five minutes after Babul’s father Sunil Chandra Baral had returned home from a bank, violent protests erupted in front of the residential complex where the couple has been living for 11 years now. Though left unhurt, the couple is now living in fear of another bout of protest in the evening.

 Babul’s mother,  , was aware of the protests happening in the city after TMC MP   was arrested. “True my son is into politics and TMC has been violent to him. But I don’t know why an entire apartment was targeted this way. They burnt the BJP flag in front of our house. They raised slogans. They tried to break the barricade in front of our complex,” she said.
 
 His father had gone to the bank in the morning. “While returning I found that there was a barricade outside our complex. I was about to leave for the market when I was told by the security guards that an aggressive mob has gathered with loudspeakers and were demonstrating in front of our gate. My wife had thankfully warned me and I hadn’t ventured out. Otherwise, God knows what would have happened to me,” said Babul’s father, who stood near the window of a relative’s flat and watched the protests on the road. 
 
 Though the senior citizens are keeping up a brave front, both of them are very worried about the safety of their son. “We don’t want him to come to Kolkata now. But the problem is that he didn’t listen. Being the daredevil that he is, he will not stay back at home to just protect us. We fear that he will be attacked if he goes on the street to stand by his party colleagues,” Sumitra added.
 
 What’s hurt Sunil more is the way Babul’s name has been constantly brought up by the TMC leaders in context of Rose Valley. “Three months back,   told Babul that after he returns from a honeymoon in Switzerland, he should come and meet her. It feels so sad that the same person now wants his arrest and for what? For acting in a film where legendary Tarun Mazumdar had cast him. He was not the only entertainer who sang or acted in Rose Valley films or shows. Several Bollywood/Tollywood entertainers have for the same. Rose Valley was the title sponsors of KKR and I read today that six crores was paid for it! So should all entertainers, actors, directors, players be termed cheats?” he asked.
 
 Babul’s mother, on her part, is also worried about the safety of their neighbours. “So many people live in this complex. They love Babul a lot. With such protests, I am also worried about their safety. When a mob attacks, they doesn’t see reason. The residents are being subjected to inconvenience. People can’t leave home for work for the rest of getting attacked. Children returning from school are all suffering due to this. Why target them?” she asked.
 
