Poor voting from the upmarket areas of Aundh and Viman nagar, and fringe areas of Mohammadwadi and traditionally voting-shy areas of Kausarbaug in Kondhwa threw water over  's plans of recording a 70% voter turnout on Tuesday.

 The voting percentage hovered around 55.50 and panels like Wanowrie, which is the mayor's ward, recorded just 49.25% of voting. The other areas that dented the voting percentage were Kondhwa Khurd-Meethanagar where   has stubbornly been a low voter turnout area.
 
 Activists have maintained that more attention should have been focussed on such areas to boost the turnout.Residents said the huge swathe of the panel covering new fringe areas may have dampened voting.
 
 Of the 89,643 voters in Aundh-Bopodi panel, a mere 42,868 voters exercised their franchise. The area also has a large number of educated voters. The voter count is the second largest after the BanerBalewadi-Pashan panel with its 94,076 voters.
 
 On whether it has a bearing on Aundh-Baner citizens showing the smart city idea a thumbs down, municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said the administration will not jump to any conclusions. “The performance in these areas is shocking,“ Kumar said. “It is very hard to analyse why there was such a low turnout here.We will speak to the residents and try to ascertain the reasons,“ he told TOI.
 
 Other upscale areas like   (50.94%), Deccan Gymkhana and Model Colony (53.81%), and   (51.44%) nearly recorded the average polling reported across the city.
 
 Polling in some areas, including Vimannagar (45.44%) and Wanowrie (49.2%) was poor. Polling centres in these areas generally comprises the educated elite and the uppermiddle class, but for the most part, polling centres wore a deserted look. Political scientist Suhas Palshikar said, “The elite don't have to depend on voting as they anyway get their work by flexing their financial muscle.This (low turnout) is not surprising. Such has been the case in high-profile areas for so many years now; not just in Pune but everywhere.“
 
 Palshikar also pointed out it is difficult to ascertain if registered voters even reside in these areas, as the possibility of their staying somewhere else in the country, or even abroad on business, is high. “It is always the ordinary, common man and woman who have a high stake in politics,“ he said.
 
 PMC election officer   told TOI they had emphasized on these areas through banners and even an nouncements through `ghantagadis'. Cooperation department officials also helped civic officials reach out to the chairmen and secretaries of many housing societies, and said they had convinced the heads of 11,000 societies in Pune and about 4,000 in Pimpri Chinchwad to come out and vote.
 
 However, society members encountered many hurdles. In Kalyaninagar, almost 250 voters found their names in the wrong wards. On Boat Club road, turnout was an abysmal 10% by lunch time. Suraj Kanchwala, chairman of Water Bay housing society on Boat Club road, said, “Residents do not want to correct their names in the voting list.They feel lazy to follow up with the election office and eventually end up sitting at home.“
 
