NEW DELHI: Commuters on the Blue line had a couple of unexpected co-passengers on Monday when Prime Minister Narendra  , along with the Australian counterpart   turned up for a ride on the Metro. While it’s not the first trip for Modi, Turnbull took his maiden journey on Delhi’s Metro line, complete with the obligatory selfie with the Indian PM.

 Notwithstanding the frequent metro travel, Modi went in for tokens instead of a smart card, said officials, with the rest of the entourage following suit. Both the premiers were given a quick tour of the Mandi House Metro station special panel, which has a pictorial history of the area along with the art and culture associated with it.
 
 After the tour, Modi and Turnbull went to the Blue line platform, surrounded by a surging crowd of Metro riders chanting Modi’s name. As both waited for the train, riders from the other side of the platform kept waving to the two PMs, much like celebrity spotting, prompting Turnbull to say something to Modi that made both guffaw.
 
 The two took the 4.07pm train to Akshardham, which they reached by 4.16pm, said a Delhi Metro official. 
 
 The 8-coach train was mostly empty at the time, with two coaches being kept exclusive for the PM’s entourage. Through the journey, Turnbull tried his hands at multiple selfies, though he didn’t seem satisfied by any. The Australian PM finally got up and shifted to the other side of the coach to click a picture with Modi, even as passengers waiting on the platform in the next few stations seemed uncomprehending of why the coach doors were not opening. 
 
 Those who managed to figure out the occupants of the coach had the PM waving back at them.
 
 Modi has taken the Delhi Metro several times before. In April 2015, for the first time, he took the Airport Express from Dhaula Kuan Metro station to Dwarka sector 21 to attend an event, and said he “really enjoyed the ride”. The same year, Modi rode on the Delhi Metro to HUDA city centre for a rally and then again in September, for the opening of the Badarpur to Escorts Mujesar section.
 
 
