Madurai: State industries minister, M C Sampath expressed optimism that southern Tamil Nadu will be industrialised soon as work on the Madurai – Tuticorin industrial corridor is gaining pace. The minister was here to attend the stakeholders meeting on Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act and Rules 2017 conducted by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Tamil Nadu Guidance Bureau here on Monday.

 Addressing the meeting, Sampath said that Tamil Nadu is leading in industrial development and skilled labourers’ availability in the country. Based on number of industries and number of people employed in them, the state is leading in the country and the conducive business climate is aiding the growth, he said. Tamil Nadu government released its industrial policy on automobiles and spare parts manufacturing earlier and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will be releasing aerospace and defence policy shortly as guided by late chief minister, Jayalalithaa, he said. An aerospace industrial park is under way at Kanchipuram district in 267 acres already. State government is planning to attract aviation industry projects with this industrial park, he added. 
 
 With the intention of promoting industries in Tamil Nadu, SIPCOT has created 20 industrial estates including six special economic zones in 31,465 acres spread in 12 districts. The industrial estates are functioning at Nilakottai, Nanguneri, Gangaikondan, Manamadurai and Tuticorin at present. The Madurai – Tuticorin industrial corridor was envisaged to boost the industrial growth of the region. The land acquisition work for 19,615 acres in nine districts are in various stages at present. Once the corridor becomes a reality, industrial growth will be boosted in southern Tamil Nadu, he said. 
 
 State cooperatives minister, Sellur K Raju, principal secretary for industries, Athulya Mishra, managing director of SIPCOT, R Vasuki and members of Confederation of Indian Industry and TN guidance bureau were present during the meeting. 
 
 
