BHOPAL: Stung by the controversy over a   official allegedly hitting a woman during an eviction drive, the civic body will now use drone cameras to monitor all anti-encroachment operations. 

 “We are pleased that anti-encroachment activity will now take place with the approval of additional divisional magistrate ( ). As a precaution we will use all appropriate technology to make the process transparent. Drones are a tool that can provide vital information and record every movement in an area,” said Prem Shankar Shukla, who was appointed the new anti-encroachment officer. 
 
 Until now, videography of demolition drives took place only in case of major operations. Under the new directive, evictions will be carried out only on Sundays after prior approval of district coordination committee.
 
 “Using new technology will instill a sense of security among the staff involved in anti-encroachment drives. Or else removing illegal structures would soon be impossible, given the meddling by local politicians,” said a senior BMC official.
 
 BMC officials in the past have cited that hand-held cameras are the first to be targeted when a mob gets violent during an operation. “A drone would be far off. In some cases, multiple drones could be used,” he added.
 
 The morale of BMC staff has been hit after a BMC officer was removed following allegations that he hit a woman in the stomach during one such operation. She was running an illegal kiosk along the green belt. 
 
 For about 24 hours after the complaint, BMC did not take action against the officer despite pressure from local representatives and residents. The woman was admitted to JP hospital and a report by district hospital civil surgeon Dr IK Chug on Monday afternoon stated that “the 40-year-old did not sustain any injuries as indicated by X-ray, sonography and pathology report”. “The patient’s condition is normal,” said a doctor. 
 
 On Tuesday, local politicians continued their protests and demanded action against the BMC officer. The medical report was submitted to local police on Tuesday afternoon. 
 
 
