NEW DELHI: G N  , a professor of English at Delhi Univeristy's Ram Lal Anand College, who completed his MA and PhD from Hyderabad, was engaged in naxal activities since his college days. He is believed to be the brain behind many attacks on the police and was entrusted with the task of recruiting youths in the fight against the country's democratic system. 

  He founded the All India People's Representation Forum (AIPRF) and was its secretary from 1994 to 1996. During this period, he was arrested several times by the AP police. 
 
  On May 9, 2014 Saibaba was arrested again by   police for allegedly running a Maoist front and maintaining links with ultra-right rebels in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. The wheel-chair bound 90% disabled was arrested from his residence in Gwyer Hall at North Campus. 
 
  After a 14-month imprisonment in Nagpur Central Jail, the Mumbai High Court granted him bail in July 2015 for three months, so that he could consult doctors for several ailments. But before his treatment could be completed, Saibaba's bail was cancelled and he was sent back to prison on Christmas day in 2015. 
 
  Back in Delhi from his second stint in jail in April 2016, Saibaba speaking to TOI, had said that the stint behind bars was a "dehumanising experience". Saibaba said that the first night in Nagpur jail and the 17-and-a-half months that followed were a torture for him because the cries of prisoners kept him from sleeping. "I was heartbroken, listening to their wails when they were being beaten up," he said. "I lodged a complaint with the jail authorities and with those who visited me asking them to stop the beatings, but nobody listened." 
 
  According to cops, who investigated the entire case, the 47-year-old was active in connecting like-minded organisations abroad with India-based outfits. Hailing from   district in  , his works   from Abujmadh jungles to countries such as Nepal and  . 
 
  In 2005, he joined the Revolutionary Democratic Front (RDF) which was banned by the AP government for subversive activities. He came into limelight after he formed a panel in the name of late  , who was a Maoist Central Committee member. After the 2013 Parliament attacks, he helped in forming the Committee for Release of Political Prisoners (CRPP) with the help of the  . During this period he visited countries like England, Holland, Germany, Brazil, United States and Hong Kong to meet like-minded individuals and organisations and foster their ties with India-based organisations. In Germany, he participated in a programme organised by German Marxists and Leninist organisations. 
 
  Reacting to his life sentence, his wife Vasanta said, "Our advocates will move high court soon. This judgement is shocking. In the history of Maharashtra this is the first case in which all the persons, who have been chargesheeted, are convicted in all sections with life imprisonment. No evidence has been proved by the prosecution... electronic evidence were not sealed." 
 
 
