HYDERABAD: In the  , the situation in the second major   in the country, is grim with techies being labelled as ' ' and shown the door or being warned to get their act together by   and productivity.

 Blame it on rising automation, shrinking margins, non-renewal of contracts or even the global Trump effect, but the message from IT companies is loud and clear ­ shape up or you will be shipped out. This, primarily seems to be targeted at techies at the mid and senior levels. Though TOI reached out to Infosys, Cognizant, Wipro and Tech Mahindra, they declined to give any specific numbers on layoffs or non-performers in the city .
 
 But aggrieved employees TOI spoke to said that in many cases pink slips are being given not to weed out non-performers but to primarily cut costs. Not surprising, as in the IT industry, around 60-70% of the cost is incurred on retaining as well as hiring talent.
 
 A mid-level Wipro employee in Hyderabad, who was recently asked to quit, said: “The HR department tries to save the company's skin by stating that only non-performers are being targeted. But in many cases, an employee would have been given a good rating by the supervisor but at the end of the process, the rating changes to 'non-performer'. How can a company justify that?" he asks.
 
 Another mid-management Genpact employee from the city said the situation has been bad since 2016, as there have been barely any contract renewals and margins are thin. “I have been warned by the management to 'be prepared'," he added. 
 
 Former Nasscom chairman and Cyient Ltd executive chairman BVR Mohan Reddy explained that layoffs happen every year but the number may be slightly higher this year. “I do not agree that in every case layoffs are taking place... what is happening is separation on account of non-performance. We have to understand that in the IT industry, linearity in terms of business and manpower has got delinked, which means that the number of people required may not be directly proportional to the revenues a company is generating," he added.
 
 Prof Ramesh Loganathan, who heads the researchinnovation outreach at IIIT-Hyderabad and was the managing director of Progress Software as well as president of Hysea, felt scrutiny has increased and more people at the senior or mid management level are affected as their numbers have increased but the hiring of freshers has remained flat as the sector is not growing as impressively as before.
 
 “The pyramid structure in most companies has gone for a toss and has become a rectangle...For instance, if a company hired 12 freshers five years ago, they would have become mangers by now. But each year the company continues to hire 12 freshers or less. So the organisations become top heavy", he said. CII Telangana chairman V Rajanna said with enterprises embracing   to transform, the industry is witnessing a huge shift in the skill demand pattern. “There will be continuous demand for new sets of competencies in the digital space. Hence there is a strong and continuous need to reskill the existing talent pool to meet the current demand," he explained.
 
