NEW DELHI:   on Tuesday issued guidelines for safety of students in   after the recent alleged murder and rape of schoolchildren in Delhi and NCR.

  Kamaljeet Sehrawat said that all school principals had been instructed to verify the details of their staff with the police and make identity cards mandatory.
 
 “Any lukewarm response by the principals, teachers and other employees will be taken seriously. Security of children is of prime importance. It is our priority to provide a fearless and safe atmosphere in the school. The compliance of the guidelines is imperative and unavoidable,” said Sehrawat.
 
 As per the guidelines, the principals are supposed to ensure safety audit of their schools along with school management committee members and staff as per standard safety norms.
 
 “The schools will have to maintain a visitor register and also fix time for their visits. The principals have to ensure that attendants have been deployed at the main gate to keep vigil of the students/visitors,” she added.
 
 The guidelines states that the principals should ensure that midday meal staff of the NGOs have been verified by the police and have proper ID-cards.
 
 “The school will have to prominently display the telephone numbers of the police control room, local police station and name and number of beat officer on the notice board,” said Sehrawat.
 
 The guidelines also state that proper lighting should be made available in the toilets and the boundary walls should be of a sufficient height to avoid any intrusion of persons with dubious characters in the school.
 
 “The teachers will have to ensure that no student is allowed to go to toilet alone. They should also keep check that no student remains away from the class for a long time without proper reasons and students should not leave the school premises during the school hours without the company of the teacher/staff,” she said.
 
 Sehrawat added that SDMC has floated a tender to install CCTV cameras at their primary schools. There are 579 SDMC schools which cater to over two lakh students.
 
