RANCHI: Launching the third eastern region round-table conference on effective implementation of   2015, chief minister   on Saturday announced a children observation home for girls in Deoghar. The state has set a budget to Rs 23 crore for the project.

 “The children will be given skill development training at this observation home. Ranchi and Jamshedpur observation homes are model homes and other observation homes will be set up on the same concept,” Das said, adding, “Rehabilitation centres are being constructed at Ranchi and Gumla.”
 
 Das highlighted the video conferencing facility at observation homes and said that around 115 cases have been heard and 17 disposed through video conferencing in 13 observation homes of the state.
 
 He also announced the launch of ‘Baal Gareeb Samriddhi Yojna’ to address malnourishment among children. “The government is planning to set up this fund with the contribution of all members of society,” he said.
 
 The two-day conference was organised by Supreme Court Juvenile Justice Committee in partnership with state women, child development and social welfare department and the Unicef. States like Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Andaman & Nicobar Islands also participated at the event.
 
 “The objective of this conference is to take stock of the progress made on the key recommendations from the previous two conferences, focus on the non-institutional mechanisms for rehabilitation and restoration of children and deliberate on the linkages with other child right legislations, especially the protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012,” Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur said.
 
 He added, “The rehabilitation, restoration and counselling services for children in need of care and protection is extremely important. Alternate care methods, special courts for vulnerable witnesses, effective utilisation of finances, social audits are the needs of the hour.” 
 
  judge, Justice DN Patel said that this conference is an important forum to bring together the judiciary, executive and all stakeholders on a common platform to review the plan of action and develop the way forward for effective implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act.
 
 State chief secretary   said, “The reasons behind juvenile delinquencies are poverty, broken homes, rural-urban migration and others. In such a scenario prevention is important. There is a need to create awareness about punitive measures, timely help through education and empowerment opportunities.”
 
