AURANGABAD: The   ( ) has all set to revive its staff union associated with the state transportation, which has been out of action post the death of senior party leader Gopinath Munde in June 2014.

 Munde set up the union only couple of years before his death. 
 
 The Maharashtra ST Drivers, Conductors and Mechanics Union, which enjoys backing from BJP, was officially registered at the end of 2012 and currently has over 3,000 members.
 
 Kailash Karad, union general secretary, said, “We could only conduct one convention as the organisation lost its patron within two years of its genesis.”
 
 “Our organisation is different from other run-of-mill kind unions that are present in MSRTC. Our focus is on the staff and we avoid getting used for political benefits. Senior BJP leaders including Pankaja Munde have pledged for the revival of our union by holding annual convention after a gap of four years,” he said.
 
 Over 3,000 ST staffers are scheduled to attend the convention of Maharashtra ST Drivers, Conductors and Mechanics Union, to be held at Sant Tukaram auditorium here on the occasion of International Workers’ Day on Monday.
 
 Annual salary revision, implementation of 7th Pay   benefits, end to contract employment system and application of equal work-equal pay principle are some of the key demands of the BJP-backed ST staff union.
 
 “The defective policies of previous government have been responsible for weak financial state of MSRTC, which is in turn affecting its employees and staff,” Karad said, also criticising transport minister Diwakar Raote, who belongs to Shiv Sena. 
 
 Bhagwat Karad, deputy regional president of BJP, said, “Revival of party supported ST staff union would ensure justice to thousands of affected staffers. The socio-economic condition of ST staffers needs to be improved through effective welfare policies. The proposed convention will be discussed and deliberated in a time-bound manner,” he told reporters on Saturday.
 
 The MSRTC, which has a huge fleet of buses, ferries over 60 lakh passengers every day. 
 
 
