Patna: Despite enforcement of total   by the Nitish Kumar government on April 5 last year, liquor smuggling continues unabated in the state. This is evident from the fact that 5.11 litres of smuggled Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have been seized by the state police and excise personnel in one year.

 According to data available with government sources, police and excise personnel conducted 2.15 lakh raids and seized 5.11 lakh litres of IMFL and 3.07 lakh litres of country liquor across the state between April 1 last year and March 29 this year. While the government had banned manufacture, sale and consumption of country liquor in the state from April 1 last year, it surprised everyone by announcing total prohibition on April 5. Altogether 39,869 FIRs have been lodged with 1,056 police stations in the state and 44,321 persons sent behind bars for violating prohibition law during the period.
 
 While prohibition resulted in small scale liquor smuggling from Nepal, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh in the initial state, it soon transformed into a full blown organised smuggling syndicate which, it seems, has gone beyond the control of law enforcement agencies in Bihar. Now, smugglers have also started smuggling spirit from Jhakhand and West Bengal for manufacturing spurious liquor.
 
 Despite special task force and economic offences unit too assisting police in anti-liquor drive, there is no end to the menace. Sources said criminals too have joined the “lucrative” business. A few months back, state police headquarters intercepted a call in which a liquor smuggler was heard boasting that “police seized only three of 20 liquor-laden trucks sent to the state”. The smuggler had loaded the trucks in Haryana, which, of late, has emerged as the favourite destination for liquor smugglers active in Bihar.
 
 Several trucks laden with Haryana-made liquor bottles have been seized in Bihar, especially in Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj districts which are well connected by national highways. IMFL bottles are easily available on black market at a price of Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 per bottle, sources said.
 
 
