Kolkata: A desperate   lobby, which is set to lose Rs 4,000 crore in sales annually as a result of the   order banning sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways, on Saturday petitioned the state government to prune the list of state highways to save at least 1,500 of 2,140 shops and bars from closure. 

 The state government is equally desperate — it faces a Rs 1,000-crore wipeout in annual revenue — but is wary that a denotification move, immediately after the SC ruling, stands the risk of inviting judicial censure if a PIL is filed alleging contempt of court. “We will only act after consulting the law department,” a finance department official said.
 
 In a pre-emptive step after the apex court’s December 15 order, the state had denotified stretches of two state highways in January to enable hotels and restaurants located along EM Bypass and VIP Road to continue business. This saved several big hotels, inc-luding star properties like ITC Sonar, JW Marriott,   and Taj Gateway, from a piquant situation. 
 
 The demand to denotify at least 10 more state highways gained clamour on Saturday as 2,000-plus liquor shops and bars located along the state’s highways remained shut. Liquor traders argue that several roads that are currently marked highways are not fit to be on the list. “Many highways in Bengal do not comply with the national standard. There should be a proper study and stretches that do not qualify as highways should be denotified,” said P Saha, secretary of  . 
 
 The traders also pointed to Goa and Maharashtra, where the governments had in anticipation of the order’s impact, already denotified several roads from the   list.
 
 Among the roads that the association wants the government to denotify are Diamond Harbour Road, Jessore Road, GT Road (Bally Bridge to Chandannagore), Haldia-Tamluk Road, Ghosh Para Road (Barrackpore to Kanchrapara), arguing the stretches of these roads are as narrow as 25-30 ft and do not deserve the highway tag. 
 
 "Some of these roads were considered wide enough to be granted the highway status during the British era. But the present reality is very different. There isn't space to widen these roads in future and should be denotified," Saha argued, pointing out that nearly 14,000 jobs were at stake at the 2,140 shops and bars located along highways in Bengal. If the state does denotify some of its highways, around 1,500 shops will be saved. 
 
 Liquor wholesellers also argued that with shops shutting down, consumers would take to drinking illicit and adulterated liquor and encourage bootlegging along the highways. 
 
 With the state set to also lose nearly Rs 1,000 crore in Excise revenue if the shops shut shop permanently, finance department officials held an emergency meeting with Excise officials on Saturday afternoon to discuss the situation.
 
 An Excise official said a decision had been taken to allow anyone who wishes to relocate an existing store along the highway to any place beyond 500 metre of the highway so long as the new location complied with Excise rules of the state prohibiting the presence of any educational institution or religious place in close proximity.
 
