KOLKATA: Following the high drama on Trinamool Congress (TMC) Memember of Parliament Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest by the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) in connection with the Rose Valley scam in January 3, there was a three months lull before the Calcutta High Court asked the   to investigate the   case that implicated several top leaders of the   on March 17.
 
  The CBI’s anti-corruption bureau is now busy with the preliminary enquiry (PE) of   sting operation, but in the meantime the special crime branch of CBI has taken up at least 464   from  's criminal investigation department ( ) against various deposit-taking and money collection schemes. The complaints involve more than 200 companies which are yet to be investigated by the central agencies.
  
  Significantly, these central agencies have been writing to the CID of the state government seeking access to these complaints and details of investigation taken up so far for long. After much persuasion, the CID finally handed over the documents and details of 464 FIRs filed by investors. According to sources, there are at least a dozen companies involving real estate, education and media majors in Bengal. Meanwhile, CBI will soon file chargesheets against Bandyopadhyay and Tapas Pal. The chargesheet would be filed before April 30, sources said.
  
  With the elections in states like Odhisha and Bengal approaching, the investigation into the chit fund scam gathers steam. The central agency has already arrested the directors of three major ponzi scheme operators including Icore, Prayag and Ramel groups in last three months. While Prayag and Ramel group directors were arrested last month, the CBI has taken custody of the Icore directors today.
  
  However, there has been no arrest with any political connections after January 3. According to sources, involvement of a senior cabinet minister and former minister of West Bengal are also being probed by the CBI in connection with the Saradha chit fund scam.
  
  The agency stumbled upon footages and documents that indicate direct or indirect involvement of the senior TMC leaders in the scam. However, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been vociferously saying that the CBI action smack of vendetta and that the agency is being used as a ‘political tool’ to satisfy vested interests.
  
  She called Bandyopadhyay’s arrest 'political vendetta.' She maintained that Bandyopadhyay was arrested because he and the party were most vocal against demonetisation. In the last two years, central agencies are looking into 40-odd ponzi operators through 76 complaints. No more than 50 persons were arrested in the chit fund scam.
