HYDERABAD: This Valentine's Day make sure what you gift your partner does not leave him or her sneezing. While popular   are the easiest to pick from, they may often  ,   warn.
 
 Perfumes, exotic flowers and chocolates are the most favoured gifts on Valentine's Day , but doctors say that people susceptible to allergies or who suffer from asthma must be gifted keeping their health condition in mind. Not factoring in allergies can lead to allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and skin rashes, among other ailments.
 
 “Most local flowers such as roses happen to be `allergy friendly' as people are already exposed to the pollen thatcomes from them, but one cannot be sure about exotic flowers. Out of every 100 allergy patients, 15 suffer from pollen allergy ,“ said Dr Vyakarnam Nageshar, chief allergist and national president, Allergy & Asthma Network of India.
 
 Besides roses, there are, of course, `allergy-friendly' flowering plants such as begonia, columbine, crocus, daffodil and geraniums, according to American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology .When it comes to perfumes containing allergens, there are no such studies.
 
 “In case one really wants to gift either flowers or perfume without knowing whether the recipient is susceptible to allergy or not, the thumb rule is always to go for flowers of a dull colour and perfume which is mild as allergens would possibly be less in them,“ said Dr Nageshwar.The brighter the flower or stronger the perfume, the more are the chances of them having allergens.
 
 In case of imitation jewellery, those containing nickel, cobalt and copper are known to cause skin allergies. “It is better to avoid costume jewellery because it often contains nickel, a common allergen.On contact with sensitive skin, nickel triggers eczema and rashes,“ said Dr Madhavi Adla, consultant allergist, Continental Hospitals.
 
 Dr B  , consultant dermatologist, Maxcure hospital, said, “There are now several gifts in market that are certified as hypoallergenic or allergy free. They include hypoallergenic fine jewellery , beauty products, stuffed toys, apparel, including watches, shoes and bags.“
 
