NEW DELHI: The Modi government has decided to restore land to nearly two dozen religious, social and educational organisations, which were allotted during the Vajpayee regime but scrapped by UPA-I. Most of these organisations are affiliated to RSS. 

 Confirming the Cabinet’s approval, Union urban development minister M   told TOI that plots of land were allotted to the socio-cultural organisations in 2000-01. But the   government had cancelled them, prompting the allottees to challenge the decision in court. The government has not yet made the Cabinet decision public though normally it comes out with press statements about each and every decision taken by the Cabinet. 
 
 “After we came to power, these organisations made representations and my ministry appointed a panel of two retired secretaries to look into entire issue. It found there was discrimination in the UPA government’s decision. I took the matter to the Cabinet and restoration of allotment has been approved in all cases barring a couple of them,” Naidu said.
 
 The UPA government had cancelled the land allotments to 29 such organisations stating that there were irregularities in the process. It had appointed retired IAS officer   who had examined nearly 100 cases of land allotted to various organisations.
 
 Sources said some of the organisations that will now get back the land include Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Smriti Nyas, Vishwa Samvad Kendra, Dharam Yatra Mahasangh and Akhil Bhartiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram.
 
 TOI in February 2015 had first reported how the   government was keen to review the 10-year-old decision of UPA-I to cancel allotment of land to these organisations. Out of the 29, 23 allottees had challenged the decision. The allotments were surrendered in the other six cases.
 
 Sources said now with the approval of Cabinet, the urban development ministry is likely to approach the Delhi High Court where a case is pending on the issue and would seek revocation of the cancellation.
 
 Earlier in 2015, the law ministry had recommended that the urban development ministry could reopen and consider the cases of cancelled allotments during UPA after getting Cabinet approval.
 
