MUMBAI:   has urged municipal authorities to ascertain if Saturday's demolition of a holy cross in Bandra's Bazar Road was conducted after proper “application of mind.“ He has also requested the   to stall further breakage of illegal wayside shrines for a month to allow the claimants to approach the high court for relief.

 The H West ward had begun razing ille gal religious structures located on public property in the wake of a Bombay HC order directing demolition by November 2017. Ward officials say this cross was located on public land, whereas activists claim it stood on private property . No owner or caretaker has come forward to stake a claim. Christian groups aggrieved by the BMC action met Shelar on Tuesday . Senior civic and police officials as well as caretakers of other religious structures that may come under the hammer were present.
 
 Shelar said, “The BMC must ascertain if its B list of 38   is accurate and whether demolition is being carried out as per the high court order. Let the owner of each shrine get the chance to approach court and let the judiciary determine if the structure is legal. I myself will approach court as intervener in the matter. Also, activists at Tuesday's meeting suggested that CCTVs be installed around legal religious shrines in order to detect vandalism.I have promised to put cameras in Bandra from my MLA fund within two months.“
 
 However, activist Judith Monteiro said, “It is troublesome for people to approach court and prove the legality of religious structures. We want Shelar to persuade the civic chief to put a blanket ban on demolition until we can prove our documents or BMC can prove our structures as illegal.“
 
 The BMC meanwhile issued a state ment regarding its action against unauthorized structures following the GR issued on May 5, 2011. “Before taking action against unauthorized religious structures which have come up after 29 September 2009, suggestions and objections were called from the public. Besides, in 2012, the list of all unauthorized structures was published in newspapers, and a hearing held with the concerned municipal commissioners. After taking into consideration all suggestions and objections, the list of 482 unauthorized structures was finalised.“
 
