MUMBAI: Mumbai Rockets meet defending champions Delhi Acers in their opening tie of the   (PBL-2) at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Indoor Stadium (NSCI) Worli on Tuesday evening, and fans will train their eyes especially on the potentially exciting men's singles match between Rockets'   and Acers'  . 

 After all, the contest would feature the World No. 2 Jorgensen taking on Jayaram, the World No. 19, who also hails from Mumbai. However, given the format of the tournament ­ each tie consists of five matches including a couple of men's singles, a men's doubles, a women's singles, and a mixed doubles match ­ every team is aware that it's not only the marquee clashes that will eventually determine the fate of a tie.
 
 That's where the performance of doubles and mixed pairs gains immense importance. “The individual matches will be exciting, but if you look at the composition of our team, our success will also depend a great deal on the performance of players like   (from Korea) who has been a hugely successful doubles and mixed doubles player,” said HS Prannoy of the Rockets.
 
 Speaking about his side's prospects in the singles clashes, Prannoy, who will contest the second individual match, said: “It's going to be tough for both of us. Both the men's singles are going to be crucial. If we can pull off a couple of matches then we will be placed well to make the semis.” 
 
 Dae, the former Olympic champion, who is featuring in his maiden  , is excited about playing for the Mumbai outfit. “India has some world class players now, and I am really happy to have come here for the league,” Dae said through a translator. “Badminton facilities back home in Korea may be better than India, but the excitement about the sport here is unbelievable,” said the Beijing Olympics mixed doubles gold medallist.
 
 The tournament is being played on an 11-points best-of-three format, and as expected, opinions about it are divided. While Dae feels the format will make matches more exciting, his teammate from Poland, Nadiezda Zieba said she would have preferred a minimum of 15 points in each game. “This rule will increase the pace at which matches will be played, but I am not comfortable about it. There may be times when you will have not-so-strong players beating better opponents because of the 11-point system,” she said.
 
