PANAJI: The   (ECI) on Sunday said that appropriate action would be taken against all poll illegalities, including those of distributing gifts or money, possible misuse of cash withdrawn from casinos and misuse of government schemes to threaten voters.

 Speaking to reporters, chief election commissioner Dr   said that the commission took serious note of suggestions and issues raised by political parties. “We have roped in senior officials from Karnataka and Goa from the directorate general of intelligence (DGI) and income tax. The DGI, in cooperation with the state administration, is working out a strategy to check entry and exit from casinos, and movement of large amounts of cash.   will take necessary action after we receive actionable intelligence,” Zaidi added.
 
 During its two-day visit, the ECI met with political parties for their feedback, issues, concerns and suggestions. The commission reviewed the preparedness of district magistrates, police and the government and met senior officials from the income tax, narcotics and excise departments and state representatives of enforcement agencies.
 
 The commission said that they have directed the excise department to maintain strict surveillance on bars and restaurants serving liquor after 11pm. It has directed the excise department to launch special drives to control use of liquor to influence voters. It also directed the police to act against proclaimed offenders and take strict action against antisocial elements. 
 
 “To monitor movement of cash through aerial routes,   (AIU) have been operationalized at Goa International airport, Dabolim,” said Zaidi adding that any clandestine currency exchanges along with deposits in   were being monitored. 
 
 The commission plans to set up one polling station of each assembly constituency as a ‘pink polling station’, which will be managed entirely by women in order to motivate women’s participation in the elections. The commission has also directed that, as far as possible, auxiliary polling stations should be set up in hospitals, old-age and homes for the blind for ease and facilitation of voters at these institutions.
 
