PUNE:   has defended the selection of veteran   in the shorter formats. Answering a query on India's worries over its middle-order batting on the eve of the first ODI against England here, Kohli said this issue was discussed before picking the left-handed batsman, who played an instrumental role in India winning the 2011 World Cup.

 "We picked Yuvi because we cannot leave so much burden on MS (Dhoni) in the middle order," said Kohli. "I am willing to take responsibility up the order, but there needs to be one more guy with him (Dhoni) down the order in case the top order doesn't fire. Dhoni is guiding the youngsters (for that lower middler order role), which is fine if you have 15-20 games till a big tournament. But since we have only three ODIs before the Champions Trophy, you need to get all your resources in place. You need to make sure the guys who have been picked are in good form.
 
 "Right now, we don't have the time to nurture that one spot as much. We had discussed Ambati Rayudu's name as well but he has been injured for a long time and didn't have game-time behind him. Yuvi has had a very good first-class season, so obviously he was into the team before anyone else. It gives the team much more balance in the middle and lower-middle order with MS and Yuvi. To have two experienced guys compared to one is a massive difference. I am sure Hardik Pandya and   can learn a lot from them."
 
 The 28-year-old also backed swashbuckling left-handed opener   and also gave an insight on the happy selection problems they offer, and added that the team is capable of replicating its success in other formats. "Knowing the kind of player Shikhar is, and the kind of person he is, it is better to leave a guy like that to his own planning and own thinking, rather than giving your plans to him. Because he's so instinctive, once he gets going, he just finds more options (to score) than anyone else.
 
 "Jinks (Ajinkya Rahane) is coming back from an injury as well, he's batted well in the one-day warm-up match. KL (Rahul) has been playing well for a while. So the guys are in good space. Plus Shikhar also got runs in the warm-up game. So we have to figure out what fits into our combination," Kohli said.
 
