KOLKATA: With   in place, the city airport is ready to implement the   on   from 5am on Saturday, along with Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kochi and Ahmedabad.

 The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) had moved to scrap the stamping of hand baggage on February 23, but it was put on hold by the home ministry after Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) argued that there wasn’t sufficient technology in place to replace the process. 
 
 During this period, however, officials said they have developed their infrastructure strategically and technologically.
 
 “We have utilized the time to prepare ourselves and we are now ready for the shift. There are no blind spots in the security check area where passengers are frisked and cabin bags are X-Rayed. Apart from installing new cameras and repositioning the existing ones, we have extended the length of the roller output and have put acrylic sheets as barriers to keep the bags out of reach of passengers till CISF jawans are able to check them if required,” said a senior CISF officer in the city.
 
 “We always had adequate number of cameras, we just had to reposition them. Now every camera captures overlapping images with at least another camera and not a corner is out of coverage,” he added.
 
 The officials believe the system will speed up security checking and will save a lot of time. Currently, passengers have to get their hand baggage stamped by security staff after the X-Ray. The stamp is then checked at the boarding gate. In case of a lapse or loss of bag tag, the passenger has to go back to the security gate, which could lead to missed flights or delays. 
 
 “Even if we save half a second per passenger, then at Kolkata airport, where we receive around 20,000 passengers per day, we will save 10,000 seconds, that is over 3 hours per day,” an airport official said.
 
 An equal amount of time will be saved at the boarding gates as well, since security personnel will not have to check for the tags.
 
 The practice of stamping hand baggage was introduced in the late 1970s as an anti-hijacking measure, but over time,   have made the exercise redundant. Stamped bag tags have a number in fine print which identifies the counter where the bag was screened. The exercise is now used to fix responsibility in case something that could be a threat to   goes beyond this point by identifying the screener whose lapse led to it.
 
 Full camera coverage allows the same to happen without the tag stamping, something that happens in airports in developed countries. The CISF and BCAS had carried out week-long projects at 12 airports, including Kolkata, last December where hand bag tags of domestic flyers were not stamped.
 
 Airlines have also been asked to stop issuing baggage tags. A few of them anticipate that some passengers would panic on not getting the tags and they have been asked to brief the passengers accordingly. 
 
