BAREILLY: Untreated effluents are allegedly being discharged into the Ramganga river through local drains, posing a risk to public health and environment. Hearing a petition, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday directed   (CPCB) and   (UPPCB) to conduct joint inspection of two plants — Marya Frozen Agro Foods, a slaughterhouse and Camphor & Allied Products, which manufactures fine chemicals.
 
  A Moradabad-based businessman, Anil Kumar Singhal, had filed a petition with the NGT in 2015 claiming that 23 big drains in Moradabad and 10 in Bareilly were discharging untreated sewage into Ramganga.
  
  Speaking to TOI, advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who is representing the petitioner, said, “The NGT on Friday instructed the CPCB and UPPCB to jointly inspect the private abattoir and Camphor & Allied Products. The tribunal passed the direction as both of them are located near Nakatiya river which flows into Ramganga river. The affidavit of UPPCB has clearly mentioned that these two units are discharging effluents in Ramganga through local drains.”
  
  “The green panel said uniform action will be taken against any wrongdoer,” Bansal added.
  
  TOI had earlier reported that several residents from Mohanpur village at NH-24 and its adjacent areas including Nariyawal, Nakatiya and Thiriya Nijawat Khan, had complained to UPPCB about the slaughterhouse. They claimed that the slaughterhouse burns skin of animals in the open and later dumps the residue in Nakatiya river. On the basis of these complaints, the UPPCB had served a notice to the owner of the abattoir and asked for a reply in this regard.
  
  Denying all the allegations levied by the local residents, owner of Marya Frozen Agro Foods Shaqeel Qureshi had said, “The slaughterhouse abides by the rules of NGT and UPPCB and hence all the allegations are fake.”
  
  The Ramganga originates in   district of Uttarakhand and flows to Kannauj, where the river merges with the Ganga.
  
  Earlier, TOI quoting a study had reported that extremely high concentration of metals were present in the water and had seeped into the fish in the river. The lead level was found to be a staggering 20-25 times more than the permissible limit while cadmium was up to 15 times more than the permissible limit in Moradabad.
  
  The three-part study is being conducted by Neelima Gupta, a faculty member of MJP Rohilkhand University along with   (UPCAR). During its second phase, which was concluded in May 2016, it was found that 33.3% of the fish in Ramganga had parasitic infection. The researcher warned of lead penetrating into human beings through food chains could cause learning disabilities, impaired protein and severe anaemia while cadmium could cause renal failure and other diseases in humans.
