BHOPAL: A day after   on November 8, Nobel Laureate   had thought out loud that banning high-value currency notes would curb child-trafficking. But two months down the line, this internationally-acclaimed child rights activist is disappointed. He says, “I had expected that black money-driven human-trafficking would be crippled completely following demonetisation, but no significant effort is being seen on ground.”

 Celebrating his 63rd birthday at his hometown Vidisha, Satyarthi, in an exclusive interaction with TOI, warned that the new Rs 2,000 note is gradually being pushed into human-trafficking. He stressed that government agencies make every effort to guard against this practice. “Black money, corruption and trafficking is a vicious circle and the scourge needs to be dealt with an iron hand,” said Satyarthi.
 
 The Nobel Laureate said that a huge amount of black money is pumped into trafficking, “It could be more than black money circulated by way of tax evasion,” he said, adding that Assam, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar are the main targets for traffickers.
 
 “The need is to target the source of black money. Corruption leads to black money and black money is being used for organised crime like child slavery and child labour. Curbing black money can put a check on such organised crime,” he told TOI.
 
 On December 27, at an election rally in Dehradun, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stoutly defended demonetisation, claiming that the move has destroyed “in one stroke the worlds of terrorism, drug mafia, human trafficking and underworld.”
 
 “Demonetisation is a way and not the end in itself for checking trafficking,” said Satyarthi, who has waged a war on child labour and trafficking through his movement Bachpan Bachao Andolan. He lamented that there is no comprehensive law in the country to fight human-trafficking. “The law should be victim or survivor- friendly with a proper redressal mechanism,” he added. 
 
 Satyarthi has demanded a crackdown on placement agencies that have been providing domestic servants from Assam and West Bengal. “It’s high time that citizens come forward and refuse services of unscrupulous placement agencies,” he urged.
 
 
