BHOPAL: Government Railway Police (GRP) Bhopal division claimed to have busted   by arresting its members. Members of one gang would brutally beat train passengers with stone and lathis and rob them in Budhni Ghat section.

 The GRP action against the gangs came after receiving a clutch of complaints about loots. On December 19, 2016, a woman, Usha Bharadwaj, was travelling from Khandwa to Bhopal by   in S-5 coach. As soon as the train pulled out of Budhni station, a few unknown men from outside started hurling stones at her. She was severely injured in her right eye, but she immediately reported to Habibganj station GRP police, where case under sections of 130/16, section 326, 338, 34 and section 150 of Railway Act was registered.
 
 A checking drive was launched. After a passenger, Rakesh Kumar, who was hit by a lathi on his hand when he was trying to shoot video of location on his mobile, one more case was reported. Luckily, he recorded pictures of culprits and sent them to Habibganj railway station. Rakesh Kumar was travelling from Delhi to Bhopal at the time of incident.
 
 “As it is ghat and sensitive areas, trains run slow. It was around this time, they would attack and hit passenger to perpetrate loots,” said DG rail G P Singh.
 
 Om Prakash aka Chnnu was taken into custody. He reportedly owned up hitting the passenger, Usha Bharadwaj with stones. Later, his other two aides Shiekh Arman and Sniket were arrested. Some 20 mobiles and tabs worth Rs 2.5 lakh were recovered from them. The operation was headed by SP rail, Bhopal division Mankamna Prasad and ASP rail Anil Sonkar.
 
 From six members of other gang, GRP retrieved stolen articles worth Rs 10 lakh. The recovered stolen goods included gold, mobile and laptops. All members were arrested. They would target passengers on a moving train during night hours. They committed 30 thefts in major trains, Amravati Express, Tri-Shatabdi Express, Sanghmitra Express and Swarn Jayanti Express in past two years.
 
 Modus operandi
 
 Budhni gang throwing stones 
 
 In Budhni area, trains move at lower speed as ghat plunges into darkness during night. The culprits would hit people with lathis when found standing on coach doors or would hit those sitting inside with stones. Once passengers got injured they would attack them to rob, especially mobiles.
 
 Booty recovered: 20 mobiles, a tab (Worth: Rs 2.5 lakh) 
 
 Gang Two:
 
 Booty recovered: 5 chains, mangalsutras, 8 ornanments, 5 laptops, 7 mobiles, cash and scooty worth Rs 1.5 lakh. (Worth: Rs 10 lakh) 
 
 
