AHMEDABAD: The city police’s   had launched an ambitious monthlong project in June to stop physical issuance of challans for traffic offences at crossroads and had delegated the job to personnel deployed at City Surveillance and Intelligent Traffic Managment System (CSITMS) control room.

 Traffic personnel deployed on road were instructed to focus on traffic management and respond to deserving issues.
 
  Traffic branch officials said the experiment was a success and it has been extended till further notice. Officials said that apart from an increase in identifying traffic offenders, the month of June also saw better traffic management.
 
 Sudhir Desai, DCP (traffic), said that compared to about 3,000 challans generated daily, the month saw 3,586 challans issued daily. The figure could have been higher but policemen were busy with a number of high-profile bandobasts during the month.
 
 “The system of   brings transparency as the offender knows when and where he or she was caught and for which offence,” said Desai. 
 
 Claiming that the online payment system for challans was also a success, Desai said, “At the moment, about 40% payment is being made through our website.” 
 
 He said that the traffic department have tied up with   to enable traffic challan payments by debit cards at State Bank of India branches.
 
  “The service charge will be the same for online and payment at bank branches,” he said.
 
 Desai said they are trying to address glitches of wrong challans received by citizens. “We have also made the delivery system faster with deployment of postal department officials right at the office of the police commissioner,” said Desai.
 
 Traffic branch officials said that more city police personnel will now be equipped with a specially developed mobile application that captures photographs of offending vehicles with number plates, and can be used to generate e-challans. 
 
 They added that one of the major benefits of the system is a drop in altercations with offenders. 
 
 “Earlier, a lot of time was wasted in arguing with offenders and invariably they would make us talk to someone on phone. With the e-challan system, the frictions have stopped,” said a senior traffic branch official.
 
 
