GURUGRAM: An FIR was registered against two people on Saturday for ordering stationary supplies wholesale, and paying with cheques which bounced, after one of the two victims followed the car carrying the delivery to a location in  .

 Sector 46 resident Ajit Yadav, who has a shop selling stationeries in Sector 38, got a call on April 20 from a  , who wanted to buy items worth Rs 2 lakh, saying he would pay by cheque. Next day, ‘Monga’ sent a car to Yadav’s store to pick up the order. Yadav received a cheque, but it bounced when deposited on April 24. When Yadav tried calling Monga’s number, there was no response. Later, when he called from another number, someone picked up, but when Yadav complained about the bounced cheque, he hurled abuses, threatened to kill Yadav and hung up.
 
 The same day, his distributor, Ankit Gupta, called. When Yadav told Gupta of his experience, Gupta said he had just received a call for goods from the same number. The two decided to make the delivery but follow the pick-up car. Next day, Yadav and two of his employees did as planned.
 
 After meandering through the city, the pick-up car drove to Golf Course Road, where the goods were transferred to another car. Yadav followed the second car, which went to a house in NIT 1, Faridabad. Two men emerged from the house and carried the goods in. When Yadav confronted them, they identified themselves as  , boasted they have carried out such fraud on several people, and threatened Yadav.
 
 Yadav returned to file a complaint at   police station on Saturday. An FIR was registered against Sunny and Gaurav under sections 120 (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal conspiracy).
 
 Earlier this year, TOI had reported how a family identifying as ‘Monga’, had similarly cheated five traders while living on rent. After CP Sandeep Khirwar promised swift action, the ‘Mongas’ allegedly returned money to some of them. Similar cases have also been reported in Delhi. Investigating officer SI Sandeep of Sadar police station said there’s an organised nexus at work. “We’ve received information of several similar cases in Gurgaon and Delhi, with the amount duped now running into several lakhs,” he said.
 
