BHOPAL: The Union government has initiated the process to make 50 major   and Indore   under the   ( ).

 Union government has shortlisted 50 cities, including Bhopal and Indore, for making government offices disabled friendly. The government has also got conducted a survey of major establishments through a private agency for the purpose and the buildings were identified in Bhopal.
 
 Most of the government buildings, including hospitals, in the state capital are not disabled friendly. The disabled people struggle in gaining access to government buildings, including secretariat, district JP hospital, airport, bus stands, National Rural Health Mission office, collectorate, passport office, state education office and several other government buildings. Altogether there are 50 major government offices and buildings in Bhopal, which have been identified as not friendly for disabled. There are 8 lakh disabled in Madhya Pradesh and people from across the state visit the capital for different works.
 
 The state’s social justice department would make a proposal, including the amount of money required, for making the shortlisted buildings disabled friendly. Subsequently, the state government will get the necessary modifications done in these buildings through public works department or any other government agency. As per the estimate, a sum of around Rs 4.25 crore would be incurred in making the government buildings disabled friendly in Bhopal.
 
 Officials in department of social justice said the work is expected to be completed within a year. Joint director social justice and disability welfare department, Rajshree Rai, said necessary modifications will be made in the government buildings to make them disabled friendly.
 
 The officials said ramps in public buildings, provision of toilets for wheelchair users, braille symbols and auditory signals in elevators or lifts, ramps in hospitals, primary health centres and other rehabilitation centres would come up in the identified government buildings. After Bhopal and Indore, government buildings in other cities of the state would be made disabled friendly in next phase, added officials.
 
 
