KOLKATA:   investigators probing the Rs 17,000-crore   Ponzi muddle have stumbled upon a “secret fund” often used by Gautam   to pay political heavyweights. The existence of the “secret fund” first came to surface when the CBI officials started looking into Trinamool MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s foreign trips. Enforcement Directorate, meanwhile, is likely to question the two MPs —   and Tapas Paul — within a month to find out if they had any role in alleged money laundering by the Rose Valley group.

 Bandyopadhyay had made a trip to Europe along with his wife Nayana in 2012 and a total of Rs 17 lakh was allegedly paid to the tour operator. While   had earlier claimed that he had paid Rs 5 lakh towards the trip and any extra payment made to the tour operator was beyond his knowledge, investigators have pointed out in the chargesheet that the extra amount was paid from the “secret fund”.
 
 “This was not the first time that Bandyopadhyay had received payment from the secret fund. In 2011 he was handed over Rs 5 lakh from the same account,” said a CBI official. In September 2011, Bandyopadhyay allegedly handed over Rs 5 lakh at the 5 Mangoe Lane office of the firm. The person who handed over the amount was an employee of the Rose Valley Films. Bandyopadhyay’s lawyers have, however, argued that the CBI has not produced any evidence of account transfers to the MP’s account which could be treated as a tangible proof. Bandyopadhyay’s lawyers told the court that they are not aware of any such secret fund. Neither did they know of fund transfers to Bandyopadhyay’s account.
 
 In the chargesheet, the CBI has also recorded a payment of Rs 2 lakh made to Tapas Paul from the “secret fund”. The amount was handed over to Paul at Kundu’s office chamber in presence of the cashier of the Rose Valley group.
 
 “CBI is already looking into how much money was paid to the two MPs. We will look into if they had any role in laundering the money,” said an ED official on Tuesday. Apart from the payments made to the political heavyweights, at least 15 individuals and corporate entities, including a movie company owner are under ED scanner. “They were paid Rs 10 crore or more by the Ponzi firm. But there is no reflection of the payments in Rose Valley’s books of accounts. We will first interrogate the recipients and then will attach their properties if recipients are unable to explain the reason for such payments,” said an ED official.
 
