MUMBAI: BMC on Friday restored a small piece of the city's history by demolishing an illegal construction around a British-era milestone in Parel despite opposition from locals. Listed as a Grade I relic on the heritage list, the milestone stood on a footpath of Dr S S Rao Road, opposite M  , concealed by a concrete slab built to hold a community water tap. Civic officials chanced upon it during a demolition drive in the area.

 F-North ward office had begun demolishing some illegal stalls in Parel and clearing up vehicles parked illegally with the help of traffic police. A civic official at the site on Friday said while they were demolishing structures on the footpath, they noticed the milestone, next to which a low concrete structure had been raised with a water tap fixed to it.Residents claimed the tap, was their only source of water, but the BMC staff was unmoved.
 
 “The water line next to the milestone was provided by BMC itself, therefore we had been using it. With BMC having demolished it, where should we go looking for water?“ asked   a resident.
 
 Another resident  , said the miles tone was almost three feet tall but over time had got buried under layers of construction material used to strengthen the pavement.“As a child, I remember seeing the milestone much taller. Now, suddenly it has got completely buried,“ said Nichal.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (F-South ward) Vishwas   said, “People were using the space for washing clothes. We immediately cleared encro achments surrounding it and demolished the wall.“
 
 BMC plans to preserve the milestone by putting a steel railing and net around it.Mote said once the footpath is cleared, work will begin on preserving it appropriately. BMC plans to similarly locate and restore other milestones in the area.
 
 The local ward officer said they were unaware of the milestone, as it was covered by encroachments. “We will try to ensure that it stays preserved and hence have begun clearing up the space around it,“ Mote added.
 
 Milestones marked the distance for travellers in Mumbai even before the advent of motored vehicles.The `0' milestone was at   at Horniman Circle. During the colonial era, it was the centre of the city. In the last few years, several milestones in the city have gone missing and heritage conservationists have raised concerns over it.
 
 A civic heritage department official said there are 13 milestones listed in the heritage list.
 
