Nagpur: With the aim of refraining the doctors in the government medical colleges (GMCs) from practising in private, the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) has issued letters to about 15 doctors from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) warning them about action if they have not sought permission or they are not attending the college duties for required hours. Dr Prakash Wakode, the DMER joint director, told TOI that the medical education secretary Sanjay Deshmukh was very serious and stern on the subject and has warned that all those who are practising outside without seeking government permission will be taken to task if any evidence is found against them.  Action will also be taken against those who have sought permission through the court but are not attending their duties for defined hours. “Government is very stern and is taking a review of the situation across the state in all GMCs’ said Dr Wakode. Sources in GMC told TOI that some years back, government had asked for option of practising in private by GMC doctors and only 60 doctors in the state had opted for it officially. But after another three and half years, another GR came preventing doctors from practising in private during the regime of Dr Vijay Kumar Gavit as medical education minister. But then those who were already practising approached the court and Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court gave a stay.  Following this, cases of all such doctors across state were taken to Bombay High Court which vacated the stay. Once again, the GMCH doctors approached Nagpur bench and it gave stay and they have been practising since then. Though the letters came on Saturday, the GMCH dean has not issued them to the respective doctors. The IGGMC acting dean Dr M Mehta has, however, given letters to all the seven doctors and has sought their explanation. “I have told them to certify first whether they are practising outside or not,” he said.