NASHIK: The district came third in the state in case of   loan disbursement this year, though it’s ahead of several big districts and exceeded its target by 18 percentage points. 

 Against a target of Rs 2,350.75 crore kharif crop loan disbursement, Rs 2,784.04 core was disbursed in the district this year, a senior official from the district collectorate said. 
 
 The district level consultative committee ( ) headed by the collector, overseeing the performance of bankers in the district, had carried out extensive programmes to reach out to the common man and make him understand the benefits of credit from the nationalized banks.
 
 A banker said, “Good monsoon this year saw the farmer taking crop loan. The credit facilities offered by various banks only saw the number increasing,” the officer said. 
 
 On being placed third, behind Ratnagiri and Ahmednagar, the officer said that the potential of Ratnagiri district was small and the administration and the bankers have done an excellent job there. 
 
 Nashik bankers provided Rs 2,784 crore loans (118% of target), while bankers in Ahmednagar disbursed loans worth Rs 2,429 crore (90% of target). THe traget for Ahmednagar was Rs 339 crore more than that of Nashik. 
 
 “The commercial banks and the scheduled commercial banks have done fairly well in achieving the targets,” the officer said. 
 
 Concern over loan recovery: The bankers who have contributed to disbursement of 118% above target kharif crop loans this year are now concerned about the timely   of the loans. 
 
 “There are a numbers of cases where bankers are forced to meet targets for loan disbursement. When it comes to recovery also, we would want equal response from the taluka level authorities,” a senior manager of a bank, said.
 
 The reaction comes after Nashik district stood third in State for crop loan disbursement. The bankers in Nashik collectively have pushed Rs 2,784 crore of funds in kharif crop loan disbursement and the bankers face the equally uphill task of recovery. 
 
 The district level consultative committee (DLCC) is expected to provide support to bankers, both in infusion of loans as well as in recovery. 
 
 “There are many cases where either the crop yield had failed for inconsistency of rains or the glut production led to farmers not getting appropriate prices for their produce. This puts a question mark over repayment and recovery,” another banker said. 
 
 Banks face major problems in recovery and the tahsildar-headed squads for the task also fail at times, leading to rise in the non-performing assets of the banks. 
 
 “We are in catch-22 situation where recovery cannot be pushed when it comes to farmers and the banks are under pressure to cut down the non-performing assets. Eventually, the government does bail out the banks, but it is often very late,” the official said.
 
 The revenue officials said that they were in a position to ensure that the bankers did not put much pressure on the farmers.
 
 “Farmers’ suicide is a major issue and the government is trying to provide relief to the farmer to the extent possible. In such cases, the recovery committee (headed by tahsildar) has to be very sensitive towards the demands of farmers as well as the bankers,” a tahsildar said. 
 
