MUMBAI: The Bombay   on Friday sought the Central   Authority’s stand on the exhibition of seven Humboldt   at   zoo here.

 “Let CZA come and say they can’t run the show. They are the best people to tell us. There ends the matter,” said a bench headed by the chief justice which heard a PIL by advocate Advait Sethna to send the penguins back to South Korea, from where they were bought. It was contended that the Humboldt penguins are an endangered species and the zoo lacks facilities for their care. 
 
 While Sethna harped on the penguins falling under the category of vulnerable species under international convention, the bench asked him to show how bringing them to Mumbai was coming in the way of any international treaty which India is party to or a local enactment. “Is any legal procedure violated? If you want to stay the exhibition of penguin, show us what prohibits it,” it said.
 
 Sethna said 151 animals died in the zoo in 2009, but the judges said there was nothing to show they died of negligence. “Our case is it is because of lack of care and facilities so many deaths took place. Is the zoo competent to handle vulnerable species?’’ Sethna asked. The bench said only an expert can tell if the penguins were being looked after. Sethna said CZA had issued a showcause notice to the zoo to cancel its recognition. The bench said it will be better if CZA “assists’’ the court to understand the problem in the right perspective.
 
 The judges pointed out that penguins survive in tropical places like Singapore. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, appearing for BMC, said there are nearly “14 countries similarly situated like India”. Sethna said he has visited Singapore zoo, which is in good condition. The bench told him, “Let children who can’t go abroad and see (penguins), get the benefit. Why do you want to deprive the children? Let us not deprive our people who are not fortunate like you to go abroad to see the penguins.” They said experiments are carried out to acclimatize plants and animals and gave the example of how Bangalore grows tulips. They said during experiments some casualties may occur. “Thinking they may die, so I won’t bring them, is not the attitude,’’ they added.
 
 
