ROPAR: Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, has broken its record for campus placements this year. Of the 95 students of the IIT’s graduating batch who enrolled for recruitments in this academic session, 82% have managed to land jobs. 

 However, the average pay package has gone down by Rs 50,000. While the average pay package offered to students last year was Rs 12 lakh per annum, it has gone down to Rs 11.5 lakh per annum this time.
 
 Breaking the stereotype of IT companies hiring most IIT students, IIT-Ropar students got most of the job offers from auto giants Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Motors, SML Isuzu, and construction company Larsen and Turbo. “I am happy that the institute has broken all previous placement records, but what pleases ne more is the fact that most of the placements have been made in core engineering companies. We have seen a 20% rise in such companies hiring our students,” said IIT-Ropar director Professor Sarit Kumar Das.
 
 IIt-Ropar registrar Sanjay Bhatnagar said 42 companies came to the campus for recruitments, including public sector undertakings (PSUs) like   (ISRO) and  . “One of the students has even secured an international placement,” he said.
 
 IIT-Ropar head of training and placement Ravi Mohan Parsad said the placement season also saw an increase in the number of students opting for the option. “Companies like Infosys, Amazon, Arista Networks, Saavn, Timetooth Technologies, and Vehant Technologies recruited our students. Along with them, a large number of first time recruiters like Deloitte, Takshashila Consulting, DEShaw, Directl, BookMyShow, Tesco, Smartpix, Chegg India also took part in this year’s placements, Dr Ravi Mohan Parsad. International companies like Works Applications and Tonichi Insatsu also took part in the annual placement,” he said.
 
 Prof Sarit said IIT-Ropar’s enhancement in academic performance and growing national stature had resulted in a steady increase in placements. “We will soon be launching a centre for career development, which will help in developing their potential for the job market and encourage them to become entrepreneurs and participate in our recently-formed technology business incubator (TBI) subsidiary.”
 
  is one of the eight new IITs set up by the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) in 2008. The institute has been awarded the 9th rank in the the engineering institutes category in the Indian Rankings 2016 announced by the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry. 
 
 Box
 
 How the techies fared
 
 2016-17
 
 2015-16
 
 Students registered for placements
 
 95
 
 88
 
 Students placed 
 
 78
 
 71
 
 Overall placement %
 
 82.1%
 
 80.6%
 
 Companies that participated for the placements
 
 42
 
 40
 
 Number of international offers
 
 01
 
 None
 
 Students who opted for deferred placements
 
 0
 
 3
 
