GANDHINAGAR: The   assembly on Thursday approved a new   in the state which the government claims is ruining the life of youngsters. 

 Earlier, in December 2016, the state government had moved an ordinance to introduce the new law. To make it a law, the ordinance was tabled in the   to get its approval. It was passed by a majority. Gujarat minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, presented the bill in the assembly and the house approved it by a majority.
 
 Jadeja said that there is a central law — the ‘Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act-2003’ (or COTP) — in which the state sovernment has made amendments and included hookah bars in the prohibited category. Police will take action against anyone violating the new law which allows for a minimum of 1 year and a maximum of 3-year imprisonment. A provision of Rs 20,000 to Rs 50,000 as fine is also mentioned in the amendment. “It will be a cognizable offence,” Jadeja said.
 
 The minister recalled that recently a brother and sister were caught stealing 14 kg gold to finance their addiction to hookah bar. “They were under huge financial debt because of their addiction. Hence, they started stealing to fund their trips to hookah bars,” Jadeja said. Most of the hookah bars are illegal as they are running on license for restaurants. 
 
 “They are also selling products which are harmful to youngsters,” Jadeja said. He said that the government had learnt that a visitor to a hookah bar inhales 100 to 200 times more smoke as compared to a cigarette smoker. 
 
 Video-conferencing bill ratified
 
 The Code of Criminal Procedure (Gujarat Amendment) Bill-2017 was passed on Thursday. The law will empower courts to use information technology in judicial proceedings.
 
  Bill regularizing properties on ULC plots passedpassed
 
 A bill to approve the ‘Gujarat Validation of Possession of certain Lands of Excess Vacant Land Vested in the State Government [under the Urban Land (Ceiling & Regulation) Act 1976)] Ordinance-2016’ was approved by the state assembly on Thursday.
 
 The regularization of all such properties, which have no clear title but are mostly sold through power of attorney, grants legal title for such properties. It will boost the prices of such disputed properties. Thousands of landholders are expected to benefit from this. 
 
 State revenue minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, who anchored the bill in the house, said it will benefit lakhs of poor families. Till March 30, 1999, a total of 1.49 crore square metres of land was taken by the government under the ULC Act. Of this, 52 lakh square metres was taken with construction on it. Of this, 33.88 lakh sq metres land had kutcha houses and slums on it. By this bill, the state government has decided to regularize construction on this 33.88 lakh sq m of land, so current owners of residential properties have clear title. “This will benefit 70,000 families in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara and Jamnagar,”   said. tnn
 
 
