KOCHI: The first class judicial magistrate's court in   on Friday remanded Pulsar   The magistrate refused to grant bail to the accused but postponed the custody application filed by the police to Saturday. 

 The accused were presented at around 2.35 pm at the residence of the magistrate as the court was on holiday for Shivarathri. "Truth will come out soon. I shall reveal the rest, once I'm free,"   told media waiting outside the magistrate's quarters.
 
 In their bail applications, both the accused denied the allegations outright. However, magistrate refused to grant them bail.
 
 The court postponed the hearing on plea seeking police custody to Saturday because of delays in producing the medical fitness certificate of the accused and filing of the petition. The matter will be considered in open court on Saturday.
 
 In the custody application, the investigation team said that they are yet to recover the phone allegedly used to recorded videos of the actor.
 
 The investigation team probing the alleged rape took the accused to the crime scene in the wee hours of Friday. They were taken to locations including Palarivattom, Padamugal and Kakkanad.
 
 "There is need to recover evidence in the presence of the accused from crime scenes. The accused will be taken to all their hideouts including those outside the state to collect evidence," said Rural SP A V George.
 
 The accused had given a statement that the phone used for recording the crime was thrown into a drain at Thammanam. A police team led by   conducted search operations in the area but could not trace the phone.
 
 Police sources said the conspiracy was hatched between Martin, Vigeesh and Suni and the other accused tagged along only on the day of the attack. The attack was not the fallout of any personal grudge against the actor, but fell prey to a wider conspiracy by the accused to target actors for blackmail.
 
 "The accused seems to have had plans of targeting other actors as well. However, we will cross check statements by the accused to prove the authenticity of the same," said a senior police officer.
 
 
