PUNE: A man has been moving around   in an autorickshaw and approaching unaccompanied women to demand money. Although the unidentified person does not appear aggressive or display any intent to harm them, women in the area have stated that they feel uncomfortable about the situation.

 Last December, a woman professional working with an IT major in Kalyaninagar was stopped by the unknown man, who was sitting in the passenger seat of an autorickshaw, while she was walking through the lane adjacent to Carnival Gold multiplex at around 8pm. 
 
 The man tried to engage her in a conversation after claiming to be in trouble and needing help. According to the woman, the man spoke fluent English, was soft-spoken and courteous. Even so, she turned suspicious since the man only approached her despite there being several other people, including men, on the busy lane. Sensing trouble, the woman moved away from the spot. 
 
 A month later, in January, the woman saw the same man on the road and, as her husband was with her, she waited and watched the man in the autorickshaw from a distance. The couple saw the man trying the same trick on three to four other women but they were unable to see if the women gave the man any money. In the meanwhile, the woman captured an image on her cell phone. Perhaps thinking there might be trouble, the man asked the autorickshaw driver to move along. The woman’s husband and the man did get into a scuffle but the autorickshaw quickly drove away from the spot and escaped. 
 
 Nevertheless, the woman was able to note down the autorickshaw’s registration number. Armed with the information and the photograph, the woman filed a non-cognizable complaint with the Yerawada police station.
 
 Senior inspector   from the police station said, “A complaint was filed against the man in January. We traced the autorickshaw driver and gave him a stern warning before letting him go. The unidentified man had sought money but we do not suspect any other motive. However, we have increased police presence in the area in addition to frequent patrolling.”
 
 Apart from filing a police complaint, the woman also shared her experience over a social networking website. As per the post, the man sought money claiming he had lost his valuables and was trying to find the way to the airport. The woman told him that he was on the wrong route, when he started asking her for money. He continued to beg for help but since she felt uncomfortable she moved away from the spot. 
 
 Sunanda Mehra, a resident of Forteleza Society in the vicinity, said, “We came to know about the incident through WhatsApp when one of the society members shared details about the post. This is a major cause for concern for young women working in the area as incidents of crime have been on the rise.”
 
 Moreover, this is not the only incident wherein unknown persons have targeted women in the area. Women have alleged that certain bikers ride up to them, hit them on the back with rods, or just shout loudly in their ears before speeding away. 
 
 The police haven’t received a formal complaint regarding such incidents as yet. Nevertheless, local residents are doing their bit to stay safe.  , secretary of a housing society in the locality, said, “We have issued safety tips to the residents. We have also circulated the contact number of the police in case of an emergency. The post shared by the woman went viral among the residents of Kalyaninagar and we have now alerted the women living in our society.”
 
 Women working in IT companies located in Kalyaninagar said that they felt unsafe despite the area being quite busy. Priti Singh, an IT employee working with a company located in the vicinity, said, “Sometimes, we work night shifts that end at 6am. I stay in Kalyaninagar so I often walk back home but, after this episode, I have started taking the office cab.”
 
 The Yerwada police has also increased patrolling in the area, particularly after a senior citizen’s chain was snatched while he was on a morning walk. “Following the incident, we have increased patrolling and asked officers on duty to focus on lonely lanes. Besides, extra patrolling has been initiated between 6am and 9am,” Mahajan stated.
 
 
