CHENNAI: Documents seized by I-T officials from TN health minister  's premises on Friday point to not only planned distribution of close to Rs 90 crore to RK Nagar voters by the TTV Dhinakaran group, but also the involvement of chief minister  , five of his cabinet colleagues and a Rajya Sabha member of the party. 

  Papers in possession of TOI indicate that the party had identified 2.24 lakh of the 2.63 lakh voters (85% of the electorate) to be bribed at Rs4,000 per voter. They show ministers K A Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C Srinivasan, P Thangamani, S P Velumani and D Jayakumar were the key men. 
 
 Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam is the seventh key player on the list.
 
 This core team was apparently assisted by a host of ministers and MLAs including transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar, co-operation minister Sellur K Raju, industries minister M C Sampath, Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare minister V M Rajalakshmi, tourism minister Velamandi N Natarajan, backward classes minister S Valarmathi, former minister and Aravakurichi MLA V Senthil Balaji and Madurai north legislator V V Rajan Chellappa.
 
 I-T officials said, to facilitate easy monitoring of money distribution, the party had divided the constituency into 256 divisions. Close to Rs15 crore - the maximum - was allocated to Velumani to garner 37,291 votes. Going by the papers in the department's custody, Palaniswami was drafted for bribing 33,193 voters and was allocated Rs13.27 crore for the purpose. Sengottaiyan was next on the list, with a target of purchasing 32,830 votes at Rs13.13 crore. In all, Rs89,65,80,000 was distributed to the seven key election office-bearers of Dhinakaran's election campaign, going by the document.
 
 The graphic details of the money trail were printed on a special letter pad with 'R K Nagar assembly constituency byelection 2017: Candidate T T V Dhinakaran' printed on top. In the first column on the letter pad, the key election managers' names are printed. The second column shows the number of areas the constituency has been divided into, for electioneering. The third column has the total voters in each region and the fourth one shows the targeted electorate for bribing. The amount disbursed is mentioned in the last column, but curiously enough, there is no mention that the figures refer to money. Divide the total amount by the targeted electorate, and you get the per voter amount of Rs4,000.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin, demanding a CBI probe against Vijayabaskar, said the ministers implicated in the documents seized by I-T officials should be sacked from the cabinet forthwith. "The Palaniswami government must resign and go immediately. Their intention is to loot the exchequer in an organised manner".
 
 AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) faction leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Pandian said, "the documents seized by I-T officials show that T T V Dhinakaran, who was once detained under Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, is continuing with his criminal instincts in R K Nagar. He has criminalised politics and dragged many state ministers including the chief minister into his nefarious acts".
 
 The 20-hour raid at Vijayabaskar's premises ended early in the morning on Saturday.
 
