GURUGRAM: The Millennium City saw an unprecedented spike in the   (carbon monoxide) level on Wednesday and Thursday, possibly due to the dip in temperature and increased vehicular movement on the national highway. 

 While the CO level touched the 70 mg per cubic metre mark on Wednesday, 17 times higher than the prescribed value (4 mg per cubic metre), it reached 53.95 mg per cubic metre on Thursday.
 
 An official from Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) told TOI that even a 10 mg per cubic metre mark is abnormally high. 
 
 “The natural concentration of carbon monoxide in the air is very low. It generally remains around 2 mg per cubic metre, which is not harmful for humans. However, if it goes above 4 mg per cubic metre, it is harmful and CO level above 10 mg per cubic metre is considered deadly. There is an urgent need to ban burning of waste in the open and stop the plying of diesel autos,” he said.
 
 Shedding light on the possible reasons for the spike, he said, “The city reports high level of carbon monoxide as it is situated close to the national highway (NH-8), and many state highways. Due to high vehicular movement, the pollution levels go up. Another factor is dip in temperature, which leads to slow dispersal of pollutants.” 
 
 Last week, TOI reported that concentration of CO level in Gurgaon remained several times higher than Delhi. Usually measured at three stations of Delhi —Punjabi Bagh, Shadipur and Dilshad Garden — the CO level in the national capital remains below 6 mg per cubic metre.
 
 Meanwhile, the level of   also remained nearly six times than the prescribed limit by World Health Organisation (60 micrograms per cubic meter) on Thursday. The average 24-hour concentration of PM 2.5 was reported at 250.98 mg per cubic metre. Air quality index (AQI), on the other hand, was measured at 295.
 
 Talking about the harmful impact of high CO levels, Dr Khushi Taneja, a pulmonologist, said, “Carbon monoxide is a highly toxic pollutant as it reduces the amount of oxygen circulated by the blood in the body. Consequently, vital organs such as heart and brain get affected severely. Unfortunately, it affects both healthy and unhealthy people. While healthy people might experience tiredness and dizziness, those suffering with cardiac diseases are at a very high risk. Children, elderly and pregnant women are particularly at risk.”
 
 A further dip in temperature has been predicted by the Met department over the weekend. “Foggy mornings might come back in the next four days. Light shower is also expected, which may lead to a dip in temperature by two to three notches,” said a Met official.
 
 
