PATNA: Senior BJP functionary and   member Subramanian   on Sunday praised former PM   saying he was the only good human being in the (Nehru-GandhI) family who contributed to awakening of Hindus in the country.

 He also said Rajiv Gandhi was the only “Hindu neta” in the   who wanted   to be constructed in Ayodhya.
 
 Addressing a symposium on “Ram, Ram Mandir and Hindu Renaissance” at the Bharatiya Nritya Kala Mandir here, Swamy recalled as to how Rajiv Gandhi, despite being PM from the Congress, allowed telecast of popular mythological serial ‘Ramayana’ on Doordarshan and later also got the locks of Ram temple at Ayodhya opened for prayers by Hindu families. "Rajiv allowed telecast of Ramayana on Doordarshan’s national network despite stiff opposition from some senior functionaries in the Congress," Swamy said.
 
 Swamy praised former PM Narsimha Rao saying he also wanted from heart that Ram Mandir be constructed at Ayodhya.
 
 Exuding optimism for settlement of Ayodhya dispute in the wake of the Supreme Court’s recent directive asking the contending parties to work out an off-the-court settlement, Swamy said he hoped a grand Ram Mandir would be constructed in Ayodhya before the Ram Navmi in 2018.
 
 Swamy also said that if Ram Mandir could not be constructed by the mutual settlement between the warring parties, it would be constructed after passing a necessary legislation in Parliament after BJP gets majority in the Rajya Sabha in 2018.
 
 He further appealed Muslims to hand over their part of the land in Ayodhya to help the construction of a grand Ram temple there. “A complete and grand Ram Mandir will be constructed at Ayodhya, but it will be better, if initiatives are taken by Muslim community. They should hand over the land. We will provide them land at another place for the construction of a mosque. It will strengthen the relationship between Hindus and Muslims,” Swamy argued.
 
 He said the construction of a Ram Mandir was a matter of faith for Hindus and the community had every right to build it without further delay. “Muslims should provide us place for temple and we will provide them place for offering namaz,” he said.
 
 The symposium, organised by Bihar unit of the Virat Hindustan Sangam, was also addressed by well-known political thinker K N Govindacharya and journalist Ram Bahadur Rai. 
 
 
