Mumbai: With the city’s vehicular population surging by up to 50% in five years, transport officials have identified “hotspots” in the island city, eastern and western suburbs which have maximum registrations of cars and two-wheelers. While there is no way one can stop   of new vehicles here, these areas have been the biggest contributors to the vehicular burden on roads, whose total length has stagnated at 2,000km for many years.

 Officials said the “hotspots”, defined in terms of burgeoning motor   population, crossed the one lakh mark due to a surge in car sales or demand for more two-wheelers. In   and Goregaon, in the western suburbs, it will touch the two lakh mark in few months, sources said.
 
 Topping the charts were   (island city), Andheri (western suburbs) and   (eastern suburbs), officials said.
 
 Deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane (eastern suburbs) said, “In upmarket localities like Powai, car registrations have gone up drastically in the past few years. We receive several applications for high-end cars and SUVs. Chembur has the most registrations, with almost every middle class household having a car or a bike/scooter. In many state housing board colonies in Ghatkopar and Mulund, residents want two-wheelers to commute to the railway station daily, which has led to a surge in the number of bikes and scooters.”
 
 He said most bike/scooter buyers in Mumbai were aged 18-35. “This is a young population which is dependent on private transport to reach a station or office,” he said. 
 
 Transport experts said a lack of “good and affordable” public transport system had led to people opting for two-wheelers. When BEST hiked bus fares more than a year ago, coupled with poor frequency, many purchased two-wheelers in the suburbs to travel from home to the railway station during peak hours. Most railway stations in the suburbs also came up with bigger parking lots to cater to the needs.
 
 In the island city, Dadar has some of the most congested roads, including the one near Dadar TT. Deputy RTO Subhash Pedamkar (island city) said, “Dadar has seen a huge growth in car and two-wheeler registrations in the past few years. The area has seen a spurt in redevelopment too. Another area where vehicle population has seen a huge jump is the Worli-Mahalaxmi belt, with scores of highrise apartments having two to three cars registered per family.”
 
 Mill areas of Lower Parel have also given way to highrises, and this belt, popularly referred to as Upper Worli, is where car registrations will peak. Colaba-Cuffe Parade has a huge vehicular population, including many commercial vehicles, compared to tony areas of Malabar Hill or Nepean Sea Road-Pedder Road.
 
 In the western suburbs, Andheri and Goregaon have several residential and commercial hubs where the car/bike population has swelled over the years. Traffic there moves bumper-to-bumper during peak hours and congestion is the biggest issue, especially on arterial roads and near railway stations. The other three western suburbs on the RTO radar are Kandivli, Bandra and Borivli, with many households going in for bigger cars that occupy more road space.
 
 Transport department statistics showed that overall vehicular density in Mumbai (island city and suburbs) has increased to approximately to 1,500 vehicles per km, from 935 between 2011-12 and 2015-16. The vehicle population surged from two million to nearly three million during this period. People are purchasing nearly 100 private cars and 250 two-wheelers daily; the vehicular strength includes 17 lakh two-wheelers and nine lakh private cars and SUVs across the city, RTO sources added.
 
