HYDERABAD: A storm has erupted over tea at the prestigious research and development (R&D) wing attached to the   (IACRF).
The centre, that is involved in cutting edge research, including into areas of head and neck cancer, has piquant things to worry about these days. It all started on January 3 this year, when staff members working with the R&D wing discovered that their regular evening tea tasted salty. In fact, not only was the tea salty, but some of those who had the tea felt 'uneasy'.
 
 This prompted staff members to approach the   police. On January 28, they filed a complaint after exhausting other options in tracing alleged mischief maker.
 
 “A foreign substance was added to the milk which we use to make tea and coffee and it tasted salty and unusual. The R&D staff had consumed the tea and sensed it was abnormal. Such an incident never happened in last six years here,“ read a written complaint by the nine-member R&D staff of IACRF filed with the Banjara Hills police station (a copy is available with ToI).
 
 Even a week after the complaint was lodged, the police are still clueless. Officials cite their helplessness in the matter as neither was a sample of the 'abnormal' tea saved nor was anybody hospitalised necessitating further action.
 
 “The police complaint itself was filed 25 days after the incident. Even they (complainants) informed their in-house chief security officer about the incident only two days later on January 5,“ K Srinivas, station house officer, Banjara Hills, said, adding that nothing can be done in the case.
 
 The CSO of   dismissed the issue saying, “The R&D staff of IACRF purchase milk on their own from outside.“
 
 When contacted, Dr  , head, R&D, IACRF, alleged that he suspected foul play. He said that this was not a lone incident. He listed out a series of such 'unlawful acts' at the institute. “We would have fallen ill had we consumed the entire tea. There are have been several incidents like this.“ He also made other complaints including not being paid his January salary yet, delay in the provision of utilization certificate for ICMR grant on ongoing research in drug resistant head and neck cancer cells.
 
 Efforts to contact Dr  , the medical superintendent of the IACRF, went in vain.
 
