BENGALURU: Annoyed over the growing demand for separate religion status by a section of   in  , pontiffs of   -a group of five Veerashaiva monasteries located in different parts of the country -and like-minded seers have decided to come on to a common platform to save   and the community from a possible split.

 As a first step, they plan to hold a religious convention in Davanagere by involving all prominent seers in a show of strength to send a strong message to politicians looking to divide the community on religious lines by proposing a separate religion ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. They will take a pledge to protect the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community and Hindu culture.
 
 “We'll hold the convention soon after Shravan month ends. We want to ensure 1lakh people attend the event and send a message to the community not to get carried away by false propaganda floated by politicians in the name of caste,“ said Sri Siddalinga Rajadeshikendra Shivacharya swami of Ujjain peeta. Shravan is considered an auspicious month as per the Hindu calendar, and the month's ruling deity happens to be Lord Shiva.
 
 Agitated over the demand for a separate religion by Lingayats, raked up by woman seer Mathe Mahadevi, the seers met recently and chalked out a plan to save the community from a split. “The less said the better about Mathe Mahadevi, who created a controversy by changing the penname of social reformer Akka Mahadevi and Basavanna,'' the seer said. Though the rally is a move to counter Mathe Mahadevi, it's ostensible aim is to “protect Hindu culture“ and “a possible split“.
 
 The Panchapeeta also plans to host a month-long awareness programme among community members, if the situation remains unchanged.Through these programmes, the seer said they will educate them on the history of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community and how they are not different from each other.
 
 “The 12th-century social refor mer Basavanna has penned 163 vachanas (poetry), indicating he is a Shiva bhakt and believes in Shaivism. To clear the air, we plan to recite these vachanas for our followers,'' the Ujjain seer added.
 
 Seer of Rambhapuri peeta in Chikkamagaluru, Sri Virasomeshwara Shivacharya swami, who made personal attacks against Mathe Mahadevi, said the Davanagere convention will be their first attempt to counter the attempts by politicians and vested interests to divide the community .
 
