SHIMLA: Two   residents were arrested along with Rs1.40 lakh fake currency of Rs2,000 denomination from Shoghi area on the outskirts of the hill town. Both the accused, while returning to Chandigarh, were arrested when they tried to cheat a dhaba owner by handing him a fake Rs2,000 note, but the alert dhaba owner informed the police.

 Sources said the police are now questioning the arrested accused to know from where they procured the fake currency, and which places in Shimla had they used it during their stay. They suspected the accused might have used the currency in the hotel where they were staying, and places where they were eating. But the way they bought ration with this fake currency has left even police officials surprised.
 
 According to police officials, the arrested accused have been identified as   and   of Ferozepur in Punjab. The matter came to light when they handed over a fake Rs2,000 note to the dhaba owner, and later on getting suspicious, the latter immediately informed the police. Based on information provided by the dhaba owner, police laid a naka at the Shoghi barrier, and when Daulat Ram and Harnek Singh were checked, the police recovered fake currency worth Rs1.40 lakh from them.
 
 This fake currency was in Rs2,000 denomination, and a total of 70 notes were recovered by the police. After arresting the accused, the police also verified these notes from the banks to confirm them being fake. A senior police official said the accused were heading towards Chandigarh from Shimla in a car bearing a Punjab registration number. Preliminary investigation revealed that the two accused, with the intention of floating fake currency in the market, had come to Shimla three days ago. How much fake money they used in Shimla has become a subject of investigation now.
 
 Interestingly, along with the fake currency, police have also recovered bags of wheat flour, rice, and other material from the car of the accused. Police suspect that these items were also purchased from Shimla using fake currency.
 
