NEW DELHI: As  , Malaysian PM lands in Chennai on Thursday, he will be executing a delicate balancing act that has kept Malaysia on a good wicket with China, US and India.

 In a statement before leaving for India, Razak said, ”I look forward to meeting Prime Minister   again. Prime Minister Modi and I have previously met on several occasions but this will be my first visit to India since he became the Prime Minister of India. I hope to exchange ideas and have fruitful discussions with (him).”
 
 India and Malaysia signed their strategic partnership in 2010, which will show itself in a strengthening defense relationship that is taking shape, at a time when the Asean region is experiencing unusual amounts of geopolitical jostling.
 
 India has trained Malaysian pilots for the Russian SU-30 aircraft and last year they held naval exercises, moving up a notch from joint army drills. India is exploring the “techno-commercial” viability of buying Malaysia’s MiG 29 fighter aircraft fleet from them, upgrading them and getting them into a usable condition in India. It will give the beleaguered IAF some long-range workhorses to work with, even though they don’t have a great reputation. India and Malaysia are also cooperating on defense intelligence, important given China’s military aggressiveness and piracy concerns. The two sides are also getting ready to exchange information on white shipping, search and rescue – somewhere down the road, India wants to establish an aircraft safety and maintenance forum with Malaysia.
 
 In his departure statement, Razak said, “Since my last visit to India in 2010, the Malaysia – India relations has flourished and blossomed. We have established the Malaysia – India Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) and India is among Malaysia’s largest trading partners and largest export destination. We have also established partnerships in terms of defence cooperation, counter-terrorism, tourism and culture relations, IT and services as well as infrastructure projects.”
 
 Counter-terrorism will be an important component of the new relationship, particularly important as Malaysia battles growing Islamist radicalization of its people by the Islamic State. India, for its part, is trying to come to grips with IS radicalization in this country as well, so sharing experiences, and intelligence cooperation is key.
 
 Razak is coming with a 150-strong business delegation for whom Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan are focus areas. Andhra will allow Malaysia to build a 250-acre “fourth generation technology park” in the new capital Amravati (which is being built by Singapore and Japan). Razak will also travel to Jaipur where Malaysian companies are bidding for road projects worth $1.2 billion. Razak says, “I have mentioned previously that innovation is key to success and with India’s booming business sector and its innovative nature, I look forward to exploring new opportunities in India.”
 
 The newly constituted CEO’s forum will present its report and suggestions to Modi and Razak. The Indian government has named Milind Kamble, chairman of the Dalit Indian chambers of commerce as co-chair, an action that goes beyond mere economic considerations. Malaysia invests about $7 billion into India, though most of it comes via Mauritius.
 
 Interestingly, Malaysia is one of the countries where traditional Indian medicine is seeing growth potential. During Razak’s visit, the two sides are expected to finalize pacts for India to establish an Ayurveda chair in the private Universiti Tunku Abdul Rehman (UTAR) and a bachelor’s course in ayurveda. India has already sent ayurvedic doctors, therapists and two “shirodhara” machines to Malaysia. The growth of ayurveda and Siddha medicine in Malaysia comes even as an informal fatwa against yoga keeps Malaysians away from that activity.
 
 Razak is an interesting head of state – he was the prime mover for renewed relations with India since he came to power in 2009 (the Indian community are a votebank). Equally, he has moved Malaysia closer to China, reflecting the reality that Chinese business and   is important for Malaysia’s growth. But to counter China’s creeping hegemony on the South China Sea, Malaysia has resorted to some quiet push back, though perhaps not enough. Meanwhile, he worked closely with the Obama administration on TPP, become a key component of the US “rebalance”.
 
 In two years, Modi and Razak have apparently established a close relationship, which, sources said, lay behind Razak’s desire to visit India barely a year after Modi’s visit there in 2015.
 
 
 
 
 
