Have you been in a situation where you haven't been paid for performing? Or at a place where you had to hound the owner or the accounts department for months to collect your money? If you are the member of a new band in the city, chances are you have been through all this and more.

  Getting paid for a gig isn't always as straightforward as it seems, especially when you have just started out. Much of the pay depends on the kind of deal you get and the kind of show you are doing. Sometimes,   have to perform for free too. “Many restaurant owners neither pay us in advance nor after the performance. Their accounts department doesn't bother and we have to keep following up with them for more than two months. Even after that, getting money is not guaranteed. It's like begging for what we deserve,” says Padmanabhan aka Paddy, from the band  .
  
  Some folks wait patiently, others apply periodic pressure but many give up hope of being paid at all. At times, venues have bizarre demands too. Ashwin Naidu, a drummer from  , says, “There are very few venues in the city that pay bands a fair fee. We have played for free a few times but have stopped doing that now. There have been times when venues have asked us to guarantee a certain number of attendees. If those many people don't turn up, they cut money from the finalised amount citing lack of audience.”
  Another band,  , has a similar opinion. “It's not right to ask anybody to work for free, unless the show is happening for a cause or is a talent hunt. Even in these cases, artistes should at least be given basic transport services,” says Urja Arora, the band manager. She feels that the venues ask upcoming bands to perform for free because they know there are many other bands willing to do so.
 
  However, venue owners feel that bands should share their fee details beforehand to prevent such issues from happening. “Basically, each artist comes with a level of expertise, fan following etc and restaurants choose those artistes that fit their budgets. But each artiste needs to share their expected fee with the restaurant in advance. That way, less payment or no payment at all won't come into the picture itself,” feels Kiran Singh from a restaurant in Kalyaninagar.
 
 Most of the venues approach new bands assuring to provid e a good platform and helping them to reach the masses.But almost every band has been asked to play for free at some point. In such cases, the performers barter with the organisers. “The best barter we've made was that we would play for free only if the organisers called us again and let us decide the fee for the second gig,” says Urja.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 But Rahul Srivastava, a lead vocalist with  , feels that this attitude shouldn't be encouraged. He thinks that because certain bands agree to play for free, others have to suffer too. “It should be a collective effort. Many bands perform for a lesser fee and this creates problems for other bands who seriously want to take up music as a fulltime career. Restaurants only invite those who charge less; they don't care about the music being played,” says Rahul.
 
  According to restaurateur  , restaurants should understand that they need to provide a platform for artistes. He says, “I think the new restaurants are a little confused about the operations of the F&B industry .They are probably of the opinion that these bands and artistes performing at their restaurants will get them more business. But I think it's only for entertainment purposes of the patrons. My suggestion to the upcoming restaurants is that instead of not paying the bands, promote them by giving a platform to showcase their skills. The bands need money to invest in their passion so they need to be paid well.”
 
 
