JALANDHAR CANTONMENT: On the last day of campaigning in Jalandhar Cantonment constituency, villages of which are known as hockey’s nursery, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu batted for hockey legend Olympian Pargat Singh, who is locked in a triangular contest with AAP and SAD candidates here.

 Sidhu was at his attacking best against Badals and AAP while seeking support for Pargat here on Thursday. Some prominent former Indian hockey players, including Surinder Singh Sodhi, who captained the gold-winning team of 1980 Moscow Olympics, and Col Balbir Singh (retired), who played in the 1966 Bangkok Asian Games and 1968 Mexico Olympics, were also present on the stage to extend their support to Pargat. Sodhi even made an appeal for votes.
 
 The rally held at the Dussehra ground of Jalandhar Cantonment, near Sansarpur village — the cradle of hockey that produced a record 14 Olympians — witnessed a good turnout. While serving as the director of sports in Punjab, Pargat had got a synthetic turf laid at Sansapur that has produced over 300 hockey players.
 
 As Sidhu mocked the Badals, the crowd repeatedly cheered. He projected Pargat as a man of character, who preferred to stand with the people of his constituency and locked horns with those ruling the state. During his onslaught against Badals, he said that the former’s working was in complete contrast to what was preached and practised by the Sikh Gurus. He also criticised “topian wale” (reference to AAP), “who could sell anybody cheap for their interests”. 
 
 As he narrated his meetings with AAP convener   and Durgesh Pathak (who called on Sidhu repeatedly), he said after the first round of talks he was told that he would not contest the Punjab elections. He said, “They approached me again after around three months by offering me the deputy chief minister’s post. When I asked them that who will be the chief minister, they said it would be decided later. Then I received calls from three persons, whom I won’t name, who said that it was a matter of just one year when Kejriwal would be the CM and afterwards it will be your turn. But I told them that whatever was being decided should be told to the people.” 
 
 He also compared AAP observers from Delhi in Punjab with “kaale angrez” and “Dilliwalas” with the East India Company. “When during a conversation Pargat said that he was a fullback and Sidhu was an attacker and they would make a good team, Kejriwal remarked ‘they are making a team’ and could not even tolerate that,” he revealed.
 
 “In Congress, we know who is the bridegroom (chief ministerial candidate) as it is Capt  . But let Kejriwal tell the people that who will be the groom in their case,” he asked. “AAP leaders made selective leaks to the media. Now, compare it with my meetings with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, there was no leak to media at all,” he added. 
 
 
