As it turns out, demonetisation during peak wedding season was just the preview of how the fashion industry would be hit in the fight against black money. The government on Wednesday imposed a cap on cash transactions above Rs 3 lakh. The decision, which comes into effect starting April 1, is based on the recommendations of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on black money. The Budget documents say that “no person shall receive an amount of Rs 3 lakh or more, (a) in aggregate from a person in a day (b) in respect of a single transaction or (c) in respect of transactions relating to one event or occasion from a person, otherwise than by an account payee cheque or account payee bank draft or use of electronic clearing system through a bank account.” It has been proposed that the penalty for receiving over Rs 3 lakh in cash be equal to the amount received. 

 Post demonetization, the business of fashion   specializing in   was majorly hit, as 90% of their payments used to be in cash. Very few customers were willing to show payment worth lakhs through credit, debit card or cheque. Now, the limit on cash transaction will further affect designers involved in couture and bridal wear, as they say that “no couture bridal lehenga will cost less than Rs 6-7 lakh, and few will be willing to pay that big an amount with white money.” But designers are already coming up with ways to overcome this hurdle and have jugaads like multiple bills for one outfit or are planning cheaper bridalwear lines.
 
 
 Every wedding season, the designers specializing in bridal wear would have stories to share about how some to-be brides would come with their mothers to choose their lehengas, but would often end up buying not just a lehenga but also a few anarkalis and saris to complete the bridal trousseau. “While such stories are shared within the fraternity and outside with certain pride, what most people don’t know is that 90% payments for wedding related shopping is done through cash. If not lump sum, then may be part of it as an advance amount, and the remaining as part payment, but the customer would insist that they would pay in cash, and designers wouldn’t mind. In fact, shopping for wedding clothes was thought to be the easiest mode of spending hoarded cash. This is bound to change if the government puts a limit of Rs 3 lakh on cash transactions. The designer lehengas mostly range from Rs 7-8 lakh and the whole cost for a designer trousseau would easily shoot up to Rs 25-50 lakh, which was earlier paid by many in cash. After this recent move, buyers will probably go for just one designer lehenga for the bride. In such a case, a single bill will be made, and people will have an option to pay Rs 3 lakh through cash, and the remaining amount through cheques or cards, which is not likely to come under any scrutiny. Expect more brides (who might have earlier gone for a prêt lehenga) to now opt for replicas of high-end designer clothes, available at half the actual cost at different markets in Delhi,” says a city-based designer. “Copying of designs is a cause for bigger worry than dip in sales. Some designs get copied from the ramps, during bridal and couture shows, and are made part of another bridal collection, and sold at a lesser price.”
 
 
 Designers feel that there is no denial of the fact that this move will have an adverse impact on the sale of couture and bridal wear, and that some in their fraternity may have already started thinking of smart strategies to cope with this. “One easy way out is that a single lehenga can be sold through three different bills. For example, if it costs around Rs 8 lakh, then there can be a separate bill of Rs 2.5 lakh for the blouse, Rs 2.5 lakh for the dupatta, and another Rs 3 lakh for the lehenga. This way there will be three different transactions, all under Rs 3 lakh,” explains one of the designers. Another designer adds, on the condition of anonymity, “It is not that we do not earn in lakhs, or we do not receive cash payments in lakhs for our prêt lines, but we have no reason to worry because for each piece, a separate bill is prepared. If I’m selling a stock of Rs 5 lakh (10 pieces of `50,000 each), I can get cash and show 10 different bills, the same jugaad can easily be now used in bridal wear. During this time, when bank transactions will be monitored, majority of the people will be sceptical in paying through credit, debit cards or through cheques for wedding collections, and designers will have to offer solutions to customers.”
 
  
  Designers have already started finding ways to cope with Rs   rule
 
 
 After the announcement of no cash transactions above Rs 3 lakh, designers told us that it will be a wise idea to not invest much in creating a masterpiece, and instead focus on creating an cheaper fashion line that will sell. “Customers will take time to adjust to the changes being made in the financial and economic policies. As most of them are comfortable with cash payments, it is better to provide them with a collection that falls under Rs 3 lakh. This will allow them to pick up a variety of stuff, and different bills can be made for each purchase. Each bill will be lesser than or up to Rs 3 lakh, so each transaction will be limited to Rs 3 lakh. It is better to come up with such ideas for this wedding season, especially after facing major losses, post the demonetization move. Some customers didn’t even collect their bridal-wear that was made on request, even after advance payment was made. Either they did not have any cash, or they were reluctant in sharing their PAN number, a must on payment made over Rs 2 lakh via cheques or cards,” says a designer.
 
 
