International television shows have steadily been gaining popularity in India and piracy portals that allowed free access to them have now been banned, making online   sites an undeniable crutch for binge-watchers everywhere. Although most of these sites seem expensive, college students favour them over cable television because of the urgency to view shows soon after they are aired, and to avoid untimely spoilers. A definite drawback to using these sites would be that they burn a hole in college- goers’ pockets. But they seem to have found several hacks to get around it.

  Joanne Lopes, freshman at a city college, says “Websites like Netflix and Amazon Prime give you the option of having one-month free trial, which is too less a time, so I’ve made a couple of additional accounts to avail extra free trials.” Megha Purkayastha, a 21-year-old student, echoes a similar sentiment. “I know a girl who has six different accounts on these sites. It might seem immoral, but it’s really prudent for a college student with a low budget.”
 
  Another option was offered by Shreya P, a sophomore commerce student. “My friends and I decided to share our accounts, effectively reducing our expenditure,” she says.
 
  Deemed the modern version of car-pooling, this method of sharing profiles and paying for only one cut of the plan goes a long way in saving a few bucks, and removes the need to make multiple IDs. According to 19-year-old Rushith Adhikari, “Instead of subscribing to premium packages that allow access for around four people at the same time, we simply pick the basic versions. Even though that reduces access to just one or two people at once, we almost never use the account at the same time, so it’s hardly an issue.”
 
  Some college-goers avoid this hassle entirely, opting to only use free-access websites for their dose of television shows. Pooja Kumar, a graduate from a city college, says, “Although free sites like Hotstar need premium subscriptions to watch exclusive content, most of the shows I watch are available for free, so it works for me. If necessary, I use my friend’s premium package to watch what I want to.”
 
  A hardcore fan of US and Brit sitcoms, among others, college student Amanda M, finds her dose of entertainment on free streaming sites hosted by individuals and groups. “There are sites that offer multiple streaming options for each episode. The only downside to accessing these sites is that most of them are funded by having endless advertising on them, most of which are pornographic in nature. But then installing a simple ad blocker solves even that problem,” she says. 
 
  However, Nitin G, another collegian, avers that in a country like India where internet connectivity is still among the cheapest in the world, getting an unlimited plan with reduced speed limits may still be the best bet for students like him. “Right now, a mobile service provider is giving data at almost no cost, while others are reducing costs to stay in the game. Most broadband offers have unlimited access for, say, as little as Rs 750 per month. While torrents are technically banned, there are ways to get around this little inconvenience and once you have figured that out, there’s a whole lot of stuff that you can download and watch,” he says. 
  
 - Varun Vaidyanathan V & Sanjana Sindhe
 
 
 
