PUNE: The one-lakh odd   or Women Empowerment Centres in the state, which will be attached to the angandwadis, will get only Rs 3,571 each to carry out their functioning, a miniscule amount cited by workers and activists. The Union Budget’s announcement of Rs 500 crore for Mahila Shakti Kendras or Women Empowerment Centre was for each of the 14 lakh anganwadi centres across the country.

 These kendras have been envisaged as centres where women can get support for everything ranging from employment and skill development to health and digital literacy. Women activists state that attaching these kendras to the already ailing anganwadis has not gone down well with the workers. 
 
 “The kendras are supposed to provide opportunities for skill development, employment, digital literacy, health and nutrition. However, with just Rs 3,000-odd being allocated as part of the expenditure details, this would be less than the daily wage of an MNREGA worker,” point out the workers working in these angandwadis. The anganwadi workers are already demanding that they be made permanent workers under the government and their remuneration of Rs 5,000 be increased.
 
 The Budget presented on Wednesday by Finance minister Arun Jaitley announced a hike in budget allocation for the welfare of women and children from Rs 1.56 lakh crore last year to Rs 1.84 lakh crore. Of this, it was announced that Rs 500 crore would be for starting these kendras to provide support services for empowering rural women with opportunities for skill development, employment digital literacy, health and nutrition.
 
 The angandwadi workers are not able to understand the need for attaching the Mahila Shakti Kendras with the anganwadis. “In the past year, the   (ICDS), which runs anganwadis, has suffered from major budget cuts. The workers had brought out a morcha on January 20 to put forth their demands,’’ said Shubha Shamim, another activist working in the sector.
 
 In the 2015-16 budget for ICDS, the amount was slashed by half, from Rs 16,000 crore to Rs 8,000 crore, and in the present budget it seems to be reduced further, points out the activist.
 
 Shamim said that the anganwadi workers don’t get any benefits of a government job and have been struggling for recognition as full-time government employees and the attachment of Mahila Shakti Kendras will only increase the burden.
 
 Activist   said that the gender budget stands at 5.3 per cent of the annual budget share which was the same as last year. 
 
 ‘The amount announced do not actually stand to benefit as they are almost the same or even less than last time. The Nirbhaya funding has been reduced from 585 crore to Rs 400 crore as well and there are several areas where the funding has actually reduced, she adds.
 
 “There should be a separate programme rather than it being merged with the ICDS scheme, said Moghe.
 
 
