DEHRADUN: Thirty-nine Commonwealth member countries are going to deliberate on some of the grave issues affecting climate and green cover at the nineteenth Commonwealth   to be held at   (FRI) here from April 3 onwards.
 
 The conference was last held in India almost 50 years ago, in 1968, in New Delhi.
  
 Some 700 participants, including experts, scientists, forest officials and NGOs from India and member countries, are going to make 470 presentations on climate change, forest fire, community participation and ways to improve forest productivity and green cover during the course of the five-day long event, said sources.
  
 Governor   will inaugurate the conference which is being organised on the theme ‘Forests for Prosperity and Posterity’ in consonance with   targets of the UN Convention on Conservation of Biological Diversity (UNC-CBD) and Sustainable Development Goals.
  
 Indian Council of   Research and Education director general S C Gairola said, “Issues such as depleting forest cover, increasing global temperature and more importantly climate change are of global concern. We will deliberate on these issues, along with measures to improve forest productivity and forest cover, modern technologies and possibilities of collaboration for exchange of information during this conference.”
  
 FRI director Dr   said the decision to hold the event, which is being held in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, along with   (CFA), the  , was taken in 2014, while preparations began from October 2015.
  
 “We consulted both international and national advisory committee, and also created website to upload related information. Our invitation received a whopping 667 synopses of presentations, of which 470 were shortlisted after thorough review.”
  
 There will be 21 technical sessions focusing on socio-economic perspective of forests; resource assessment and monitoring; economic valuation; forest conservation and development; impact of climate change, adaptation and mitigation; biodiversity conservation and management; bio-prospecting and value addition of forest produce; forest products diversification; tree outside forests, urban forestry and landscape management, and policy interventions.
  
 There will also be a global forestry conclave at the conference to deliberate on the role of forestry in implementing international agreements among Commonwealth members.
  
 A separate poster session will be held, wherein various national and international delegates will display their research and development (R&D) activities on relevant themes.
  
 An exhibition-cum-sale showcasing handicrafts, herbal and medicinal plant products made by self-help groups, and handmade products by NGOs, artisans and cooperate marketing federation will also be held for three days.
  
 
