LUCKNOW: Having already won his first battle against elders in his family and in the party by remaining firm, chief minister   Yadav’s persona has enhanced further by refusing to be awed by the Gandhi scions’ aura, the way he refused to bow before them in the alliance negotiations.

 This was evident when Akhilesh on Saturday rejected the pressure mounted by Prashant Kishor and the aides of Congress president   and vice-president  , telling them that 99 seats was the last mark for the Congress.
 
 Earlier on Friday, Akhilesh refused to respond to many SMSs sent by   Vadra for negotiations on the UP alliance. Akhilesh had been in touch with Rahul and Priyanka for over a month as he reportedly wanted to have a “fresh beginning and new innings in politics”. But the talks derailed gradually after Congress negotiators started demanding more seats.
 
 Having taken a firm stand, Akhilesh has thrown the ball back into the Congress court, which has to take a final decision on whether it will follow his roadmap to check the BJP in the state.
 
 Akhilesh also knows that even he may have to pay a heavy price in the 2017 Assembly elections after refusing to bow before the powerful Gandhi family and showing them their place, at least in the state, yet he apparently feels he would gain some more political weight in the bargain.
 
 For one who had been ridiculed by political opponents in the last four-and-a-half years for being overshadowed by uncles and chachas, Akhilesh has suddenly shed this image by capturing the party and dislodging the elders from their top positions.
 
 The negotiations in the alliance with the Congress is the second occasion in a fortnight when Akhilesh turned a challenge into a golden opportunity to enhance his image.
 
 “Gone are those days in the   when Mulayam Singh Yadav buckled under the pressure of Congress high command. This is Akhilesh era and negotiations would be settled on an equal footing,” commented one of his aides, saying that the Congress should realise its weak position in the state and then come for negotiations as Akhilesh has already shown his magnanimity in giving seats.
 
 Akhilesh has also tried to save the Congress from humiliation by offering that 25 candidates of his party will contest on a Congress symbol, but if even that does not satisfy the Congress, then he is not willing to be awed by the Gandhi family any further, said an aide. 
 
 
