GURUGRAM:   itself as a model state when it comes to implementing ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign, but it flounders while consolidating the data of  . 

 The campaign is monitored directly by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s office (CMO) in the state.
 
 Sources in the state health department said a senior officer in the headquarters would face suspension for allegedly fudging the data of sex ratio received from the district authorities of  . According to sources, the district authorities had sent an accurate data to the headquarters. 
 
 On Thursday, the CMO had suspended two officials of   (PMC) for wrongly recording the figures. According to sources, the data of sex ration in the district was compiled by a ‘sewadar’ in Palwal.
 
 Like other districts, Mahendragarh also submitted its report in March 2017 to the office of director general health services (DGHS). 
 
 As per the report, the number of boys born in the district in March was 337, while the number of girls born was 278. The statistics were submitted in writing as well as orally over the phone to the DGHS office. It is believed that the verbal miscommunication among officials led to errors in the final report, which showed 337 girls for 278 boys. As a result, in the first quarter (January, February and March), the sex ratio at birth in Mahendragarh was erroneously reported as 968 (1,000 boys for 968 girls).
 
 “The computer operator at the post-partum centre in the General Hospital had prepared the data. We don’t know how did it happen after it was sent from here,” said Dr Dayanand Bagri, chief medical officer, Mahendergarh.
 
 The government has now decided to suspend the then deputy director (birth and death), health department, for the goof-up. But, sources said, the government is in a fix as it doesn’t know who should be suspended as the purported fudging of data happened during the overlapping tenure of two officials. Dr JC Garg held the office of the deputy director (birth and death) till the second week of March, and took voluntary retirement in August. His successor was Dr Anil Verma.
 
 Dr Garg told TOI, “The data was sent to us in the first week of April. It was done right after the transition time between me and my successor. I was not there at the time it happened”.
 
 Meanwhile, clerical errors continued to embarrass the CMO. On Thursday, the CM had ordered suspension of two Palwal officials — Mahendar Singh, registrar, municipal council, and Sandeep Kumar, sub-registrar, for allegedly fudging the data. However, official sources said the post of registrar is held by Manendar Singh.
 
