Mumbai: A multi-crore and multi-state duty evasion racket has been busted by the state excise department after a few months of investigation. A distillery, controlled by a former   in Solapur, is said to have evaded duty to the tune of Rs 21.44 crore by obtaining allegedly false import and export passes to show export of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) to Arunachal Pradesh from April 2015 to November 2016. The consignments were believed to have been diverted to Gujarat, a prohibition state, and also possibly within Maharashtra. 

 The racket was carried out in collusion with officials of the Maharashtra excise department and their counterparts in Arunachal Pradesh. Liquor from the distillery never reached Arunachal Pradesh, which was unearthed by investigations.
 
 “Nakshatra Distilleries and Breweries Limited in Mohol, Solapur district, exported 1,10,000 boxes of IMFL to Royal Bonded Warehouse in Bordumsa, Arunachal Pradesh, from April 2015-16. But after the excise department started probing the trail of the exported consignment, they found the checkpost at Bordumsa in Chalang district had no entry of the 10 trucks passing through. We also found the record of Royal Bonded Warehouse does not mention any import of liquor from any state in India after October 2014. Neither were there any records of any consignment from Nakshatra reaching the warehouse,” said an official of the state excise department.
 
 “This is not all, according to records, the liquor was exported to Bordumsa in 74 truck consignments, but there were no records of the same at the checkpost. Even the entry remarks of various checkposts were missing from the documents of export of the consignments. The route mentioned in the import pass for export of the consignment covers a distance of 4,058 kilometres and goes via Gujarat, UP etc. A to-and-fro journey on the route would take a minimum of 20 days, but consignments were delivered in just nine or 11 days and the truck would return for another consignment. Besides, the route chosen was a circuitous one. All this raised suspicion,” the official added. Even the Excise Verification Certificate (EVC) issued was found to be false and the role of a deputy commissioner of the Arunachal Pradesh excise department, who signed the documents, is suspicious.
 
 “To gather fool proof evidence, officials followed a truck carrying a consignment to Gujarat. The truck driver managed to shake off the officials, but the empty truck was found abandoned elsewhere in Gujarat. While there are records of 60 trucks passing by some toll nakas in Gujarat, there is no record of 14 truck consignments entering Gujarat. The trucks never went to Arunachal Pradesh, they were either diverted to Gujarat or elsewhere,” the official said. 
 
 Excise commissioner   said “We have taken action after a thorough enquiry by sending teams to Arunachal and Gujarat.” Several excise department officials have been suspended and investigations are on. Besides senior excise officials of Solapur district, the role of the department’s lower level staff who have to escort the liquor consignments to the state’s border, is also under the scanner. “There is an around 300% duty on the manufacturing cost of liquor sold in Maharashtra. To evade this, distilleries have come up with the idea of exporting consignments on record to other states and diverting them back to Maharashtra and even a prohibition state like Gujarat,” another official added. This is just the tip of an iceberg and officials believe other distilleries may also be involved. 
 
 Rajan Patil, a former NCP MLA representing the   constituency in Solapur district, controls the distillery and is one of the directors of the firm. The constituency is now represented by Ramesh Kadam, who is also from the NCP. “It’s a political conspiracy by the state government against me. Export of liquor is done after permissions are granted by the excise department and the whole process is monitored by the department. We have submitted our papers to the department. I am a three-time MLA and not even an NC has been filed against me during the elections. We will move court and fight the case,” said Patil. 
 
 
