New Delhi: Every year,   resounds with loud music and feverish dances as people take down Durga idols from trucks for   on Vijaya Dashmi, the culmination of 10 days of pujas and festivities. On Saturday, however, the enthusiasm of the thousands gathered there to bid goodbye to the goddess was distinctly watered down by the sight in front of them. The area for immersion demarcated by bamboo screens looked like a shallow drain rather than a river, choked as it was with half-submerged idols, discarded adornments and flowers.

 “How can you immerse 15-foot-high idols in 2-3 feet of water?” protested Arun Roy, secretary of Delhi Durga Puja Charitable and Cultural Samiti, which organised its 108th puja this year. “The idols need to be immersed completely, but here the water is not even knee-high.” He grumbled that the authorities had not prepared for the occasion this year.
 
 Members of the immersion parties tried to push the idols into the water, like frenzied villains trying to drown the heroine, but with little success, leaving many to resorting to the desperate strategy of pouring mugs of water on the half-drowned clay figures to break them down.
 
 Over 200 registered puja associations reach Geeta Ghat every year to release the idols of Durga, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesha and Kartikeya into the  . This year, the New Delhi Kali Bari, which led the Joint Puja Procession Committee, registered 215 puja associations, perhaps too many to be accommodated in the shallow stream at Geeta Ghat. There was a lot of muttering and murmuring among the organisers of numerous pujas at the insufficient facilities.
 
 Swapan Ganguly, general secretary of New Delhi Kali Bari, admitted that the water level in the river was down “nearly 70%”. “We have received a number of complaints from the associations wondering about the low water levels, but what can we do?” shrugged Ganguly. “Our work is to organise the immersions. We register the puja associations and give them permission to immerse, but it is the duty of the flood and irrigation department to release adequate water. That preparation was lacking this year.”
 
 As the people did their best in find both space and water to submerge their idols, there were criticisms about other aspects of the preparations too. Pradeep Chatterjee, organising secretary of the puja at Durga Bari in Greater Kailash 1, was aghast at the dust in the air, rendered all the worse by the dancing mass of humanity. “It’s getting difficult to breathe. The area could have been watered down before the processions started arriving,” said Chatterjee disapprovingly.
 
 The lack of water made another unwanted aspect of the immersion more readily visible. Hundreds of plaster of Paris idols lay in the river staring at the sky, with no official around to enforce their ban for being polluting and environmentally unfriendly. In the crowd, the only happy faces belonged to the ragpickers. “We found currency notes still attached to the idols,” smiled Deepa, an elfin urchin. “We also found some costume jewellery that must have adorned the idols.”
 
