BURNPUR/KOLKATA:   when boiling-hot molten   fell on them at the   (ISP) in   in the early hours of Saturday. The toll could rise as four   are in hospital, three of them in critical condition with 90% burns. The dead and the injured are contractual employees.

 Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), the public sector company that owns the plant, has set up a high-powered committee to probe the incident. Saturday’s accident occurred exactly two years after a similar incident at Durgapur Steel Plant had killed a worker and critically injured two. 
 
 The horrific accident occurred around 3.55am, during the ‘C shift’ at ISP, a brand new Rs 17,000-crore steel manufacturing facility inaugurated by PM Nar-endra Modi two years ago.
 
 A ladle that was carrying nearly 150 tonnes of molten steel from the basic oxygen furnace to the continuous casting plant tipped while being carried by a crane to be placed on the turret of caster No.1 to make steel billets. Around 75 tonnes of molten steel — at a temperature of around 1,640°C — fell on the workers. Shahnawaz Sheikh of Burnpur and Ashish Sikka of Kulti were charred to death. Shankar Nag, Ashish Shaw, Sanjeev Chatterjee and Salim Khan were critically injured and have been admitted to Mission Hospital, Durgapur.
 
 In the previous accident, molten steel had splashed on the workers at the continuous casting plant. A high-powered committee had been formed to look into the incident and recommendations formulated. But it appears to have come to a naught.
 
 “The blast furnace, basic oxygen furnace and continuous casting plant are high-risk zones in a steel plant,” said an ISP official. “We continuously evaulate safety protocols and make improvements, learning from past incidents. It is a continous process. A high-powered committee comprising the executive director of the R&D Centre for Iron and Steel, Ranchi, and general manager (steel) of Durgapur Steel Plant (DSP) will submit a report on the reasons and to find out the reasons and report the matter.”
 
 In September 2014, at least 26 workers had suffered severe burns following a gas pipeline blast in coke oven battery No. 11. Coke oven gas is highly inflammable. Four months prior to that, seven persons, including some senior officials, died and several were wounded in an accident at the Bhilai unit in Chhattisgarh. Nearly 100 workmen have died in a series of accidents at Sail and RINL since June 2012 when over a dozen employees, including some senior executives, died at an accident in RINL’s Visakhapatnam plant.
 
 Labour union leaders at the plant alleged lack of safety mechanism for contractual workers. “Such incidents have taken place earlier, too, but management has not done anything to enhance labourers’ safety. We want compensation for the family of the deceased,” said Harjit Singh, general secretary of the INTTUC unit at the plant.
 
 The 2.5 million tonnes per annum capacity steel plant has 7,000 employees on its rolls. In addition, 300-400 persons are engaged on a contract basis to work on the hot and risky shop-floor. Though there is a medical unit at Burnpur and a full-fledged hospital at DSP, neither is equipped to handle such serious cases. The injured were therefore admitted to the Mission Hospital. “We are deeply saddened by this loss and our thoughts are with the families, friends and co-workers at this difficult time. Our hearts and minds are with those who are affected and we hope for their quick recovery. Best medical care is being provided. SAIL is willing to get the injured treated at a more advanced facility once their conditions stabilise,” said a senior official.
 
 
