NEW DELHI: A gang of   was busted for stealing products in bulk from godowns of   in south Delhi. The men had recently decamped with 454 LED televisions worth Rs 3 crore from a   in Rangpuri.

 Four people were arrested by a police team from East Champaran, Bihar with a truckload of goods that they had planned to sell at 30-50% of the original price.
 
 Investigations started after one Dheeraj Aneja lodged a complaint at Vasant Kunj (north) police station on December 23 about a burglary at his godown. “A team led by ACP K P Kukrety scanned through the dossiers of over 200 criminals before identifying the culprits,” said DCP (south) Ishwar Singh.
 
 A probe revealed that new locks had been placed at the godown after the robbery and the stolen goods had been transported in two trucks.
 
 “The only tangible clue came from an analysis of the footage of a   camera situated near the robbery spot. The truck in which the stolen goods were taken had a hazy mark resembling three capital letters in English identifying the transport company. This footage was enhanced forensically and it revealed the letters VTS,” said additional DCP (south) Chinmoy Biswal.
 
 Records of each transport company operating in Delhi-NCR were scanned and many of them were found using the abbreviation VTS. Finally, the police zeroed in on a transporter in Mongolpuri and he disclosed that the gang had hired his truck to take the goods to Patna.
 
 The accused men were identified as Ashok Kumar Malhotra, Pappu, Akhilesh Kumar and Vijeet Kumar. Vijit owned an electronic shop in Patna where he put up the goods for sale. A team was sent there and the men were arrested.
 
 The men told the police that would recce the target godown and inquire about what wares were stored there. The gang members would then prepare fake papers claiming ownership of the goods. “The criminals would break open the locks at the godown and replace them with new ones. After hiring a logistics service provider, when the labourers would come to the godown they would open the locks, get the goods loaded and drive straight to Patna,” said Biswal.
 
 In Patna, the accused men had another warehouse from where the goods would be distributed in the grey markets near the Nepal border. Police are trying to recover the goods they had stolen from other godowns.
 
 
