NEW DELHI: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea of Honeypreet Insan, who is wanted by the   in connection with incidents of violence following conviction of the   chief, saying the "easiest way out" for her would be to surrender.

 Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, after hearing arguments on behalf of Honeypreet and the police of Delhi and Haryana, said she would pass an order on it. The order is likely to be pronounced later today.
 
 "The easiest way out for you would be to surrender," the court observed.
 
 Honeypreet has been on the run since the conviction of   in two rape cases. She is facing a case of sedition for allegedly inciting violence in Haryana after the Dera chief's conviction.
 
 Transit anticipatory bail plea is meant to seek protection against arrest during transit. In this case, Honeypreet is seeking bail for her transit from Delhi to Haryana to join investigation in the sedition case.
 
 During the hearing, the Haryana Police opposed the filing of her plea in the Delhi High Court, saying it was "a ploy to do 'forum shopping'".
 
 Delhi Police also alleged that Honeypreet should have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, rather moving the high court here.
 
 The police of Delhi and Haryana opposed her plea for anticipatory bail for three weeks on the ground that the court of competent jurisdiction would be in Haryana.
 
 The lawyer for Honeypreet contended that her life was in danger in Haryana and that is why she has moved Delhi high court seeking protection from arrest till she moves a court in the neighbouring state.
 
 The lawyer said that she will join the probe if she is protected. 
 
 Priyanka Taneja alias Honeypreet, the adopted daughter of the jailed Dera chief, tops the list of 43 persons "wanted" by the Haryana Police in connection with incidents of violence that had followed Ram Rahim’s conviction in the rape cases.
 
 Ram Rahim was convicted by the special CBI court in Panchkula on August 25, following which violence and arson had erupted in Panchkula and Sirsa districts of Haryana which had left 41 people dead and several others injured.
 
 The CBI court on August 28 had sentenced Ram Rahim to 20 years in prison for raping two of his disciples in 2002.
 
 Honeypreet had accompanied the Dera head when he had come to the special CBI court on August 25. She had also travelled along with him in the special chopper which ferried them to Rohtak from Panchkula after the conviction.
 
 The controversial sect head is currently lodged in Sunaria jail in Rohtak district of Haryana.
 
 Several teams of Haryana Police have travelled across the country, including the Indo-Nepal border, to trace Honeypreet.
 
 
 
 
