AHMEDABAD: The  , an umbrella body of North America-based   groups, issued a statement expressing solidarity with   judge C S Karnan, who has been sentenced to six months imprisonment for  .

 The umbrella body, comprising seven groups including Ambedkar International Mission, Ambedkarite Buddhist Association of Texas, Ambedkar International Center, International Commission of Dalit Rights, Ambedkar Mission Society of Canada, Be Educated and Cherukonda Institute, also demanded reservations in the higher judiciary.
 
 It further congratulates Justice Karnan for his bravery in exposing the deep-rooted caste-based sensibilities of the Indian judicial system.
 
 “The US Ambedkarites are closely following events unfolding around Justice Karnan’s episode. It extends its warm support to Justice Karnan and encourages him to continue his struggle that is representative of the community experiences,” said a statement from the US Ambedkarite Collective, from its volunteer Vinaya Shivraj Anuradha.
 
 “Justice Karnan’s devastating allegation against the Supreme Court judges’ caste discrimination is living evidence that the court system in India is hazardously infected with caste prejudice. His courageous testament to uphold democratic values and constitutional principles devoid of nasty casteism is a living example of the caste virus severely affecting the fabric of the Indian republic,” reads the statement. 
 
 The group also demanded PM Narendra Modi’s intervention over the allegations made by the Calcutta high court judge.
 
 “We also urge the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, to look into allegations made by Justice Karnan against 20 sitting judges and law officials. Failure to do so will expose the government’s lack of empathy towards vulnerable section of the community,” reads the statement.
 
 “We demand reservation in the judiciary, like the executive and legislature, to democratically function as the arms of government,” said the statement.
 
 A seven-judge bench of the apex court on May 9 passed an order sentencing Justice Karnan to jail, by holding him guilty of contempt of court and sentencing him to six months’ imprisonment, one day after he defiantly ordered eight Supreme Court judges to be put behind bars. He also filed a plea before the Supreme Court, seeking the suspension of its order awarding the punishment, in which the apex court refused to grant relief to him.
 
