A new generation of ceramic makers is dishing up some highly-creative crockery, especially with the return of slow cooking.
 
  Who doesn’t love fine crockery? Now you have all the more reasons to rekindle your love for tempting tableware, as dishes have turned dishy thanks to a slew of ceramic artists going creative with crockery. Health experts have already predicted the return of earthenware in cooking as a big trend in 2017.
  
  Ceramic artist   says, “I’m inspired by the most basic and intrinsic qualities of clay – its matte earthiness. But I like to keep my work modern and minimal.” Goyal has noticed that clients — be it a restaurant, retail chain or an individual — are looking for refinement in the dining experience. She says, “There’s a desire for something that’s handcrafted, where each piece is unique.”
  
  
 
  People have been cooking in clay utensils since ancient times. There are Moroccan tagines, Provençal daubieres, Spanish cazuelas, Italian bean pots. The popular wisdom is that cooking in earthen vessels preserves the flavour and nutrients. Ceramic artist Rahul Kumar says, “Eating out of ceramic plates is also much healthier and non-toxic as compared to a metal like aluminium or even plastic.” The good news: ceramic is totally oven/microwave safe too.
  
  It’s the new move to ‘ethical tableware and serveware’ and India has many names shaping this trend. Like   run by Mansimran “Mini” Singh, son of master potter  , from a small village in Himachal. It is known for its tradition-meets-trendy glazed tableware. There’s ceramic artist   who gives a sleek and stylish spin to blue pottery.
  
  
 
  Award-winning ceramic artist  , who works in terracotta and ceramics, says, “Ceramic tableware has a glam feel to it now. It’s also bespoke and luxury.” Prakash who caters to a global clientele is happy that ceramic is becoming a way of life. “Cooking in clay pots enriches the food with calcium, phosphorus, iron, magnesium, sulphur and several other compounds,” he espouses. The best bit: clay pots are alkaline in nature so they mix well with acidic food to create a balance.
  
  
 Minimal and earthy handmade stoneware is popular now and so is that perfectly imperfect bowl
  
  The feel of clay, its roundness and lustre is luring people towards the earthenware trend. 
