Ludhiana: The Special Task Unit (STU) of Ludhiana police have arrested another accomplice of the infamous Baba gang with a .32 bore pistol and five cartridges on Thursday. The arrested accused is a close aide of the kingpin of Baba gang Dilpreet Singh alias Baba, and he was arrested following a tip-off. The arrested accused has been identified as Sohan Lal of Patti. Importantly, on July 15, the day pastor Sultan Masih was gunned down outside the church ‘Temple of God’ in Peeru Banda Mohalla of Salem Tabri, the gang was in the city.

 According to police, on July 15, gangster Baba — along with his accomplices Sikandar Singh, Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jaswant Singh, and Manna — came to the city in a Hyundai Creta SUV, which they snatched in Muktsar, stayed for a night here, and left for Nakodar the next day, from where they proceeded to Madhya Pradesh and purchased two weapons. The gang members were located near Rahon Road, where the pastor’s killers were last traced. However, it has not been ascertained so far if the gang was involved in the pastor’s killing.
 
 Besides, the Ludhiana police have already arrested three accomplices of Gangster Baba — Honey Kumar, Sikandar Singh, and Mandeep Kumar. Honey Kumar was the main supplier of weapons to the Baba Gang, who would bring weapons from other states. Police commissioner RN Dhoke said: “The police have arrested Baba’s fourth accomplice. He has been quite active, and involved in several snatchings, arms acts, and murder cases. Recently on July 22, Sohan Lal — along with Sikandar and Bhupinder — gunned down the driver of a private bus in Amritsar, as he did not give way to his car. He was also declared a proclaimed offender in that case.”
 
 Dhoke also said since the police got to know the movement of Baba Gang members around Rahon Road on July 15, the police have been tracing all the gang members. He further said Sohan was associated with the Baba Gang since 2012. Sohan’s cousin was killed by Vicky World gang of Tarn Taran. Sohan proceeded with the case, and then the Vicky World gang developed a rivalry with Sohan. Later, Sohan killed one of the members of the Vicky World Gang, named Sukha Tadka. He was arrested and sent to Central Jail, Gurdaspur, for two years. In Gurdaspur jail, he got in touch with the kingpin of Ajgar gang, named Avtar Singh Ajgar, who further got him in touch with Baba. Since then, Sohan has been involved in several criminal activities.
 
 Further, STU in-charge Prem Singh said Sohan had been held with a weapon. The police have been questioning him about his motive of coming to Ludhiana, as there were possibilities he was hatching some conspiracy or planning to commit some crime. Revealing their modus operandi, Prem Singh said the gang would first snatch a car — only SUVs or sedans — weapons, and cash, and then commit a bigger crime. Sohan Lal has been booked in seven different cases, including murder, robbery, theft, carjacking, and under the Arms Act in Tarn Taran, Moga, and Amritsar. 
 
 
