CHARMINAR: The   race has started in Hyderabad. Ramadan, the fasting month of  , is about two months away but endocrinologists and general physicians are now busy enrolling with the Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI) seeking permission to conduct research on fasting and diabetics. 

 At least half a dozen doctors and hospitals from Hyderabad have registered with the CTRI to conduct research during Ramadan, which is scheduled to begin in the last week of May. The focus is on insulin and anti-diabetes drug trials in the city. Ramadan provides the much needed opportunity to researchers to find out the impact of drugs on fasting, particularly if the devout is a diabetic with uncontrolled blood sugar levels.
 
 Interestingly, many doctors and hospitals choose new drugs for research during the Islamic holy month. Pharmaceutical companies also join the research race to test if the drugs they manufacture are effective on diabetics during the fasting period. The Ramadan-diabetes study is conducted in dozens of countries including India. Hyderabad with a large Muslim population is the natural choice for pharma companies and hospitals to conduct the trials.
 
 According to CTRI data, about two dozen doctors from across India including six from Hyderabad have chosen the drug   ( ) and   as add-on treatment to basal insulin for "randomised, parallel group and active controlled trials during Ramadan 2017. The target group is "uncontrolled patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, who elect to fast". A pharma company is sponsoring the research by extending monetary/material support as part of the global research.
 
 In a similar study in the earlier years, doctors compared the drug Sitagliptin with Sulfonylurea treatment during Ramadan fasting in patients with Type 2 diabetes. The CTRI data shows that the subjects to be selected under the study are between 18 and 99 years. Both men and women will be included. The trial will last for 29 or 30 days depending on the sighting of the crescent moon. 
 
 This year 10 to 20 micrograms of Lixisenatide will be administered through a subcutaneous injection for 12 to 20 weeks as part of the intervention. The researchers will prescribe Sulfonylurea under commercially available formulation. Patients randomised in control arm will continue the sulfonylurea taken prior to study. It is an oral doze for 12 to 20 weeks, the CTRI data reveals.
 
