BAREILLY: One of Akhilesh Yadav government’s pet projects,  , which has won many accolades for  , is   from other states, who are now queuing up at the   in Lucknow for training.

  “A four-member team from Uttarakhand police recently completed a two-day training here. We have received also several requests from other states who have appreciated our digital presence in the form of Twitter Seva,” Rahul Srivastava, PRO at DGP office, told TOI. Another senior cop from Bihar has also made a request for a training seminar on Twitter Seva, he said. A request from West Bengal is also pending.
 
  In September 2016, UP became the first state in the country to roll out the ambitious “live customer services resolution” service where 122 Twitter handles were unveiled in one go. Any complaint made online is acknowledged by a quick response. The complainant receives a token for each acknowledgement and it has to be resolved within 24 hours with necessary action. Twitter Seva, by far the micro-blogging site’s biggest engagement with any department of any government in India, has since became very popular and has won many awards.
 
  The presence of police forces of different states on the micro-blogging site has paved way for a better coordination among investigating and law-enforcing agencies. In a recent example of this coordination, three states came together in a manhunt after DCP, southwest Delhi, Surendra Kumar tweeted about a missing businessman. He also alerted UP police on Twitter. “Cops in several areas, including Mathura and Agra, were pressed into action after we reviewed the alert. The man was finally recovered from Gurgaon. This could be tried on a larger-scale and would obviously result in better coordination in such distress calls,” Srivastava said.
 
  “Police presence on social media is the need of the hour. And other police forces following UP police’s initiative is certainly a shot in the arm,” said another official.
 
  The state police force, which is the biggest in the world, has been at the receiving end for spiralling crime and poor law and order but the police have received some good reviews for its proactive action on complaints that were posted on its Twitter handle.
