Hyderabad: A 22-year-old man ended his life after he was thrashed by a businessman for allegedly stealing a   at   last week. The deceased was, M Praneeth, a car cleaner from   in SR Nagar. On April 26, Praneeth went to a chicken shop at BK Guda and stole the cell phone of a worker, Prithviraj, SR Nagar police said. 

 After stealing the phone, Praneeth returned to the shop in a while to see what was happening. "Prithviraj told Praneeth that there was a tracker in the phone and he was going to approach police. Praneeth then left the shop and returned a little while later saying that one of his friends had stolen the phone and he offered to return it for Rs 700," SR Nagar inspector Md Waheeduddin said.
 
 Meanwhile, chicken shop owner Razaq intervened and told Praneeth that they were ready to pay the amount. Praneeth left the place and returned in 15 minutes to say that the thief was demanding Rs 900. 
 
 "Razaq and Prithviraj even agreed to pay Rs 900. They went with Praneeth to the latter's house and Praneeth brought the phone and gave them. Razaq then took Praneeth to his shop and thrashed him for stealing the phone," the inspector said.
 
 At the shop, Prithviraj noticed that the memory card was missing from the phone and they again took Praneeth to his house. "As soon as they reached the house, Praneeth slapped Razaq and ran into the house. Meanwhile, Praneeth's mother Neelamma came out and when Razaq explained her about the theft, she apologised to Razaq. "The next day, on April 27, Neelamma sent Praneeth to Razaq's store to return the memory card. After Praneeth handed over the card, Prithviraj paid him Rs 10. In the night, Praneeth set himself ablaze at home with kerosene and he succumbed while undergoing treatment at   on Saturday night," the inspector said.
 
 After the death, police initially registered a suspicious death case on Sunday. However, when Neelamma alleged that Praneeth died due to the harassment of Razaq and Prithviraj, police altered the section to abetment to commit suicide. No arrests have been made so far.
 
 
