SHIMLA: Most parts of   continued to reel under severe cold conditions as tribal areas and other higher hills had another spell of moderate snowfall while mid and lower hills were lashed by strong icy winds. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old man was on Wednesday, found dead in the gallery of a Dharamshala and police are suspecting that he died due to severe cold.

 The Theog-Hatkoti road was blocked due to heavy landslide near Badvi, 75km from here , and efforts are on to clear the road, a spokesman of public works department said. Bharmaur, Keylong and Kalpa in tribal belt experienced 10.2cm, 9cm and 6cm of snow, respectively, while Salooni and Chhatrari recorded 5cm of snowfall each.  , Kunzam Pass and other higher hills also received fresh snowfall, aggravating cold wave conditions in adjoining valley areas.
 
 Scattered rains occurred at isolated places and Khrei, Chamba and Rohroo and recorded 16mm, 10mm and 8mm rain followed by Dharamshala 6mm and Manali 2mm. Mercury stayed at minus 7.5 degrees celsius and minus 7.4 at Keylong and Kalpa in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts, respectively, while Manali and Shimla recorded minimum temperatures at minus 4 degrees celsius and minus 0.6 degrees celsius. Shimla was followed by Bhuntar at 1 degrees celsius, Solan 1.6 degrees and Nahan 3.5 degrees celsius. However, maximum temperatures rose marginally and Una was hottest in the region with a high of 17.4 degrees while Sundernagar and Solan recorded maximum day temperature at 16.5 degrees celsius and 16.4, respectively.
 
 Solan was followed by Nahan at 15.3 degrees celsius, Bhuntar 13.5, Dharamshala 12.8, Shimla 11, Manali 4.6 and Kalpa 0.6 degrees celsius. The 60-year-old man from Tissa area of Chamba was found dead in the gallery of Puranmal Dharamshala. The body has been shifted to IGMC for legal proceedings. The cause of death is yet to ascertained but it could be due to severe cold at night, police said. Local weather department has forecast rain or snow at isolated places in mid and higher hills from Thursday up to January 24. pti
 
 
