LUCKNOW: The beleaguered Congress may find some solace in Bahujan Samaj Party’s decline in Uttar Pradesh. It could also, party leaders say, peg its revival on the back of regional satrap Mayawati’s electoral decimation. 

 An assessment of the party’s electoral performance suggests that even though the Congress remained restricted to seven seats in the UP assembly, and did not win a single reserved seat, the grand old party, owing to its alliance with the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, effectively dented Mayawati’s Dalit and   in a large number of reserved and general seats. 
 
 Of the 114 seats that it contested in the UP polls, the Congress raced ahead of Mayawati’s BSP in 58 seats, 14 of which were reserved for scheduled castes. This suggests that the 20% Dalit population of UP, once believed to be Mayawati’s stronghold, slipped out of the BSP chief’s hold in 2017, benefitting not only the Congress, but also the ruling BJP. 
 
 With some help from the  , the gathbandhan candidates also polled large numbers of Muslim votes in general seats, nullifying to an extent, Mayawati’s unprecedented Muslim outreach in the UP polls. 
 
 This time, while   could only win two reserved constituencies of the 19 seats BSP won, her candidates fared poorly in comparison to Congress candidates on many seats. Congress candidates contested on 29 reserved assembly seats. On 14 reserved seats, they finished ahead of BSP candidates. In nine SC seats, Congress finished a close third, in each case, rarely polling less than 30,000 votes.
 
 In Barabanki’s Zaidpur reserved constituency, for instance, where Congress’ debutante Tanuj Punia finished second, BSP Meera Gautam finished a distant third. Punia polled nearly 82,000 votes and was ahead of Gautam by over 35,000 votes. In Saharanpur’s Rampur Maniharan reserved constituency, on the other hand, even though Congress’ Vishwa Dayal Chhotan finished third, he polled 61,787 votes, severely denting BSP MLA Ravindra Kumar Molhu’s poll prospects. Molhu, despite polling over 75,000 votes, lost to BJP’s Devendra Kumar Nim by 595 votes. 
 
 Former IPS and Dalit rights activist, SR Darapuri said, "The BSP voteshare of 22% in the UP assembly polls is less as a result of Mayawati’s hold over Dalits and more because of the crosssection of other caste votes BSP polled. Of the 20% Dalit population in UP, Jatavs traditionally vote Mayawati, while the non-Jatavs -- Passi, Khatik, Kori and Dhobis among others -- have sided with the BJP since 2014 Lok Sabha polls when they were coopted and given representation for the first time. This time, though, even the Jatavs broke away from Mayawati and appear to have voted for the Congress."
 
 Congress leaders sense a possibility of the party’s revival on the back of Mayawati’s electoral decline. Senior leader and former chief of the National SC Commission, PL Punia says the SP-Congress gathbandhan candidates, because of their ability to woo Muslim, Dalit and Yadav votes, could have won big if it hadn’t been for the BJP wave in the UP polls. "Even before the UP elections, our focus had been on Dalit outreach and to assure them that the Congress is the only party that has delivered on the development concerns of the scheduled castes. Whether it is reservations in promotions, or land rights, the Congress remains committed to the cause."
 
 Punia also claimed that BJP, despite winning Dalit votes and a sweeping mandate in the UP polls, has remained a staunch opponent of reservations. "The RSS and BJP are anti-reservation. And the BSP never has a development agenda for the Dalit. This time, her over emphasis on Muslims also annoyed the Dalits, causing the shift. Ultimately, it is only the Congress that can truly help them forward."
 
 Darapuri, though, is more cautious. "The Dalit community needs economic empowerment. They need land rights, reservations, and stringent action against instances of Dalit atrocities. Neither the Congress, nor the BJP offers an ideological glue to them. So, they will as easily move to the BJP as they could to the Congress. The Congress, revival is possible if the BSP votebank shifts to it, and if they can add the Muslim and upper caste votes," he said. 
 
 Darapuri also said the Jatav vote, less susceptible to ‘Hinduisation’ than the non-Jatav, has also, this time been split. "A portion of this vote, which did not fall for BJP’s emotive Hindutva idea, has moved to the ‘secular’ Congress," he said. 
 
