The continuously declining poll percentage in the these elections -from nearly 66% in the first phase to around 57% in eastern UP in the fifth phase -indicating that growing indifference of voters towards the election process could disturb the calculations of major political parties.

 In the first phase that covered Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Meerut and Ghaziabad districts, largely dominated by the Muslims and Jats, polling percentage was 64.22%, making it clear that the wounds in the wake of bloody communal riots of 2013 in this region were still fresh for voters who participated religiously in the poll process. Killing of Akhlaq in   for allegedly consuming and storing become a national issue also in 2015 and further deepened the communal divide.
 
 In the second phase of polling, mainly in Rohilkhand comprising Bareilly, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Badaun and Rampur districts, polling percentage once again rose impressively to 65.16%. Districts of the second phase were dominated once again by Muslims and they too voted in large numbers along with Hindus, probably to match the record 66% voting in the previous phase.
 
 “There is no denying the fact that Muslims have no MP of their community in 80 constituencies of Uttar Pradesh.That could be one of the reasons for their renewed bid to vote in large numbers and stall BJP from coming to power in Uttar Pradesh,“ opined  , a political scientist.
 
 But in central and eastern Uttar Pradesh, voters showed indifference as the 57% polling in 2012 remained the same or improved only slightly if at all in 2017. Central Uttar Pradesh or the eastern parts of the state does have Muslim presence but only in some pockets.
 
 Eastern UP is the most backward region and a substantial number of people from this region have been migrating to earn a livelihood.Very small land holdings, flood ravaged agricultural fields and limited avenues of jobs pose major hardships to them.
 
 Many a times it has been seen that the poor feel frustrated that elections don't change their socio-economic conditions so they stay away from the polling process.
 
 To involve the rural and poor into the poll process, political parties incite caste and communal feelings. When Modi raised the issue of terror attack at Gonda, the heart of eastern UP, it was clear that he was attempting to polarise the voter. Yet, people from this poverty-stricken region remained indifferent and voting in the last fifth phase reduced to 57%.
 
