NEW DELHI: The last time an Indian cricket team trailed 0-1 heading into the second Test of a series of more than two matches was March 2001. Back then, Australia had taken the advantage with a 10-wicket win in Mumbai, leaving Sourav Ganguly's team needing to win at Eden Gardens to avert a series loss with a third Test to go. What happened in Kolkata across those five unforgettable days has become a part of cricketing folklore, and indeed that three-match series ranks among the finest ever played. 

  
  
 Cut to March 2017, and the No 1 ranked team heads into the second of four Tests against the No 2 ranked team having been absolutely smashed in the first game. This, after a run of 19 Tests without defeat dating back to August 2015, and having hardly been challenged in nine successive matches at home.  's India are hurting after that 333-run shellacking in Pune last week, and face the unfamiliar situation of needing to win in Bangalore to prevent  's Australia from retaining the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. 
 
  
  
 With a change in pitch curation likely following the sharp turner in Pune which has been slapped with a "poor" rating by the ICC match referee   amid murmurs of the BCCI being the ones who instructed the pitch curator there to provide major assistance to the Indian spinners - R Ashwin and   are the top two bowlers in the ICC rankings - the challenge for both teams are different. 
 
  
  
 India need to bat, bowl and field much better than they did in Pune, and you can expect a strong comeback. Australia, in particular their spinners, need to brace for a longer grind in Bangalore, where Steve O'Keefe's chances of taking 12 wickets and an Indian collapse of 7/11 are now off the table. India's strength still remains their spinners - they claimed 66 of the 93 wickets taken across five Tests with England last year - and when the ball isn't turning alarmingly on a crumbling surface, it is the patience and perseverance of Ashwin and Jadeja which could prove decisive in the second Test. 
 
 
 M Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore
 
 
 March 4, 2017
 
 
 09:30 IST
 
 
 Cloudy with a maximum temperature of 31 degrees
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With expectations that the pitch in Bangalore will be flatter, will India still play three spinners? Jayant Yadav took two wickets in Pune, and if a spinner has to make way it will surely be him (he failed with the bat too, after a promising debut series against England). Considering the total flop by India's batsmen, adding cover could be the way to go, in which case Karun Nair slots back for his first opportunity since he scored an unbeaten 303 against England in Chennai in December. The uncapped Hardik Pandya is the other candidate, considering he offers a handy medium-pace option. 
 A wicketless Test also puts  's place in doubt, with Bhuvneshwar Kumar likely to step in. 
 
 
 1  , 2 KL Rahul, 3  , 4 Virat Kohli (capt), 5 Ajinkya Rahane, 6 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 7 R Ashwin, 8 Ravindra Jadeja, 9 Jayant Yadav/Hardik Pandya/Karun Nair, 10 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 Umesh Yadav
  
 
 
 
 No major reason to tinker with that team after the colossal win, but Shaun Marsh's contributions of 16 and 20 make him a candidate for the bench considering it was a harsh call to drop Usman Khawaja for the last Test. The other Marsh, allrounder Mitchell, scored 4 and 31 and did not bowl ball in Pune, but will keep his place in order to maintain a balance. 
 
 
 1 David Warner, 2 Matt Renshaw, 3 Shaun Marsh/Usman Khawaja, 4 Steven Smith (capt), 5 Peter Hanscomb, 6 Mitchell Marsh/Glenn Maxwell, 7 Matthew Wade, 8 Mitchell Starc, 9 Steve O'Keefe, 10 Josh Hazlewood, 11 Nathan Lyon 
 
 
 
 
 "In these conditions, whilst all the talk has been about the spinners he's [Mitchell Starc] still our biggest weapon. It's great if he's in the Indians' heads, hopefully he can take a few wickets for us." - Mitchell Marsh 
 
 "We only look at what we need to tick. If we keep ticking those boxes, results go our way. And that's what we'd like to do here." - Anil Kumble
 
