KOCHI: The work on Roll-on Roll-off (Ro-Ro) jetty is yet to be completed but the Kochi corporation has made the full payment to the contractors engaged by   ( ). This is at a time when the project worth Rs 6.2 crore has been deadlocked due to technical issues and authorities are exploring the possibility of modifying the existing detailed project report (DPR) to overcome them. 

 Corporation councillors have questioned the early disbursement of total amount which is to given to the contractor only after completion of the work. "Normally, nobody would disburse the full amount to the contractors before the completion of the work. The work on the mooring facility is yet to be completed, said K J Antony, opposition leader. "After all, nobody including the local body, CPT and contractor could find a way for solving the technical problems faced while constructing the mooring facility," Antony said.
 
 Interestingly, the corporation's agreement with the CPT doesn't have any deadline for the completion of work. Though the construction work on Ro-Ro jetty has progressed a lot, the work on mooring facility, which helps the berthing of the vessel, is yet to begin. An all-party meeting convened by mayor Soumini Jain on Wednesday failed to arrive at a consensus on the possible means to solve the problem. "It has been months since   completed the construction of   vessel. In the first week of June, Shipyard authorities handed over the vessel to Kochi corporation. The local body is still unable to start the service as the work on the jetty is incomplete," said Benedict Fernandez, councillor.
 
 "According to CPT, the construction of concrete poles for securing the vessels during high tide can be started only if the jankar service along   sector is stopped at least for three months. But this would cause inconvenience for the passengers. Moreover, there is no such clause in the agreement," he said.
 
 According to CPT authorities, they have completed the work on the areas where the contractors could work without any obstruction. " For constructing the mooring facility, the jankar service will have to be stopped for some time. But, the corporation authorities were not ready to do so," an official with CPT said. "The corporation authorities provided all other support including making the full payment," the official said.
 
 The CPT official also said that they are exploring the possibility of setting up the mooring facility a few metres away from the original location. "We expect the issues to be solved in a week or so," he said.
 
 But the opposition councillors argue that relocation would be difficult. "The suggestion is to construct the facility 15 metres away from the original location. It would be close to the navigation channel in the sea mouth. There is a chance that the ropes of vessels berthed in the mooring jetty may break setting the vessels adrift," Benedict Fernandez said.
 
 The Ro-Ro vessels, constructed by Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) have completed their trials. The vessels are still docked in the CSL though they were formally handed over to Kochi corporation. "The demurrage charges for keeping the vessel in the CSL dock would could run to lakhs. Moreover, it would take at least three or four months for completing the work even if a solution is found. The vessel would rust if it is kept idle for four more months," said Benedict Fernandez, blaming the unscientific project report for the imbroglio.
 
