NEW DELHI: When   defied the all-powerful army and attended the swearing-in ceremony of   in May 2014, it was felt the veteran Pakistan politician may have finally come into his own to shape ties with India, with a decisive role for the civilian establishment in Islamabad.
 
  However, Sharif ’s dream was short-lived as the Pakistan army’s strategy of dealing with India through the   Conference backfired in August 2014 and Modi’s attempt to visit   on Sharif ’s birthday on December 25, 2015, was reciprocated through the Pathankot attack.
  
  Ties have been frosty ever since, notwithstanding the occasional exchange of greetings between Sharif and Modi.
  
  Sharif ’s attempts to mend ties with India have been unsuccessful even earlier. The Delhi-Lahore bus service, which was started in early 1999, took then PM AB Vajpayee to Pakistan, where Sharif received him. But the bonhomie was brief as the initiative was followed by the fourth Indo-Pak war on the heights of Kargil.
  
  In 2013, when then Af-Pak Special Envoy   travelled to Islamabad to meet Sharif following his re-election as PM for the third time, tensions along the Line of Control did not abate.
  
  It’s been alleged that Sharif, who tried to break the shackles of the army in this third term, won the 1990 election with funds from Pakistan’s deep state. And, notwithstanding his attempts to improve ties with India at various points of his career, Sharif ’s rhetoric on Kashmir did not see any dilution.
  
  This has a history and not without any basis, according to a former Indian diplomat who served in Islamabad.
  
  The Sharif family are Punjabis of Kashmiri origin. His father, Muhammad Sharif, was a businessman and industrialist whose family was from Anantnag in Kashmir and had settled in Amritsar district. His mother’s family was from Pulwama in Kashmir.
  
  While Sharif was reportedly upset with a section of the Pakistan establishment for courting the Hurriyat, the veteran   played the Kashmir card even earlier this week in the Maldives. 
