NEW DELHI: The "56-inch" chest remark of the Prime Minister   resonated in the   on Monday as tourism minister Mahesh  , initiating the debate on motion of thanks on the President's address, used it to prove NDA government's decisiveness. "Not only a 56-inch chest but we had a beating heart along with firm commitment to take up developmental works under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," said Sharma, while moving the motion. 

 In presence of Modi, who sat in the House during entire proceedings, Sharma delivered virtually an election speech as the choice of the opening speaker reflected  's priorities with UP elections beginning soon. 
 
 Sharma gave a detailed account of the NDA government in the past two-and-a-half years. "Prime Minister was conscious about the upcoming assembly polls in five states when he decided on demonetisation but despite that he took this bold and historic step to curb the menace of black money and corruption," said Sharma, the LS MP from Gautam Budh Nagar, the region where assembly polls are scheduled in the first phase on February 11.
 
 Referring to the budget announcement of limiting cash donations for political funding, the minister took a dig at recent remark of   Gandhi. " Abhi toh jeb fati hai, ab kurta bhi fatne wala hai (Now pocket has been torn, kurta is also going to be torn)." Rahul had recently shown his torn pocket during an election rally. Sharma came down heavily on the two main rivals SP and BSP accusing them of playing communal cards for votes. "There are 'netaji' and 'behanji' playing the minority card. It is shameful to divide the society on the basis of religion," he said. 
 
 The minster said it was "shameful" that proof was sought by the opposition for "patriotism" after the surgical strikes. For the first time, " rashtra bhakti ka saboot dena pada (proof of patriotism had to be given)," Sharma said while referring to the opposition demanding evidence for the surgical strikes carried out by the forces last year to destroy terror camps across the border. 
 
 Alleging that politics was being done in the names of Dr Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi, Sharma said the opposition should not to do politics on issues relating to national interest.
 
 Urging the opposition not to oppose everything that the government does, BJP member Virendra Singh, who seconded the motion, said demonetisation has benefited people, including farmers. "If farmers were impacted, how did the acreage increase?" Singh questioned. 
 
 
