AGRA: Even after a week, police have not been able to arrest the five molesters who attempted to disrobe a teenage girl, while she was on her way to a temple along with her brother on July 4.
 
  The second-year B Com student had written a letter to chief minister   seeking protection and action against the molesters, two of whom are nephews of a local   leader, or she would have to leave the state along with her family. The letter was written after an FIR was lodged against the five molesters, identified as Suraj, Rohit, Jaiprakash, Jitu and Gunda, who are all neighbours of the victim.
  
  Speaking with TOI, superintendent of police (city)   said, “Our teams are at it and we will soon arrest the accused named in the FIR filed by the victim.”
  
  According to the victim, “The gang of boys had been stalking for a couple of months. It was difficult for me to continue with my studies as I was not able to attend my college due to this. On Tuesday afternoon, they passed lewd comments at me while I was going to a temple along with my younger brother. The molesters later attacked us, when we confronted them. They tore my clothes and also assaulted my father when he came to our rescue.”
  
  She alleged that the molesters alter knocked upon their door and threatened them with dire consequences.
  
  The victim’s father said, “Two of the accused are activists of a right-wing organization while their uncle is a local BJP leader.” 
  
  BJP’s Agra city spokesperson Bobby Verma said, “At present, we cannot comment on the case. But the uncle of two of the accused is a former councillor from   and a senior local leader of the party.” Another BJP source confirmed that accused, Jitu and Rohit, are nephews of local BJP leader Soharam Rathor.
  
  Police have booked the accused under IPC’s section 147 (punishment for rioting), 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace).
