VISAKHAPATNAM: Hospitals listed under the Andhra Pradesh Specialty Hospitals Association ( ) are sticking to their decision to stop employees health scheme ( ) services from mid-January as their issues have not been resolved by the state government in the last one year.

 The state government’s introduction of   scheme, an attempt to make healthcare for the middle class cashless, has also strengthened the resolve of the ASHA hospitals to shun EHS services.
 
 Recently, ASHA hospitals issued a letter to the CEO of NTR Vaidyaseva Trust, principal health secretary and health minister Dr Kamineni Srinivas regarding their inability to continue their services under EHS for employees and pensioners after January 15. There are more than 200 hospitals under ASHA in the 13 districts of AP.
 
 Dr K Rajesh, Vizag district coordinator for NTR Vaidya Seva, said, “We are trying to reach some kind of agreement with them and negotiations are on to prevent the stopping of EHS services. After the state government decided to launch Aarogya Raksha scheme from April 2017 for the middle class, ASHA hospitals felt that they would run into losses if most treatments go cashless.”
 
 However, the problem areas are plenty according to core committee members of ASHA. Dr Muralikrishna Voona said, “Since the last one year the issue has not been resolved by the chief minister though he had promised us a proper costing as per revised tariff packages and payment to be made in retrospect. Methodology as per costing was done through the NTR Vaidya Seva Trust. The actual cost of treatment incurred by the private hospitals was far surpassing the amount that we were getting from the government. There were various kinds of taxes and cess to be added to the cost and after everything we had just eight per cent marginal profit for ourselves. Let the government revalidate the package pricing for EHS if they want to and implement the way Telangana government has done the same for EHS services.”
 
 “However, instead the government took an U-turn and last month we found that the minutes of the meeting sent by the government is not in line with the discussion held or nor agreed upon and many of the terms and conditions, which were earlier accepted were not mentioned. Further, more than Rs 150-200 crore is pending from NTR Trust for payment to ASHA hospitals.”
 
 The soon-to-be-launched Aarogya Raksha scheme has further complicated the matter. “With the introduction of this scheme for the above poverty line people, which was done without any consultation with the private hospitals regarding the package price, almost the entire population of AP would get subsidised or 100 per cent cashless treatment. As per central government survey, AP has the highest number of non-BPL population using various social welfare schemes meant for the poor. All this has put us in a crisis situation and government wants us to undertake all the schemes in the same rate as that of NTR Vaidya Seva catering to BPL patients. The indirect costs of the hospitals were not taken into consideration in determining package pricing,” added Dr Voona.
 
 
