NEW DELHI:   was the perfect place for Congress to kick-start its campaign for the municipal elections on Tuesday as the venue directly overlooks the seat of power for both south and north corporations —  . When Congress workers gave a “war cry” for the polls, it seemed that their counterparts from BJP were watching them anxiously from the skyscraper across the street.

 Party supporters gathered in large numbers to hear Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi speak at the rally organised by the state unit. Though he was two hours late and arrived at 6.32pm, the crowd stayed glued to their seats. Songs customised for the occasion played at the grounds, while a dance troupe kept the audience mesmerised. The largest group in the crowd comprised of youths, a vote bank Rahul claims to represent.
 
 When Rahul stepped on the stage, he was greeted by a loud cheer. However, the crowd couldn’t get a proper glimpse of the Gandhi scion as there wasn’t enough light on the stage. Nazma Khatun, a Congress worker from Shahadra, left before he began his speech. “My child is crying and I need to go home. The night is falling and I have to go far,” she told TOI.
 
 Strong vibrations were felt at the venue since the crowd included people from unauthorised colonies and slum clusters, the primary vote bank of Congress. “We were brought here in two buses,” said Mohan Valmiki from Azadpur in north Delhi.
 
 The JJ Cluster residents said that they will associate themselves with the party that will save their shanties from being demolished. Echoing their sentiments, Rahul said, “Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken and I have come to help you. We saved your houses from being demolished. Did you see Arvind Kejriwal there? Go and tell everyone that Congress is coming back to power.”
 
 “He is a leader with a difference,” said a Congress worker to his friend.
 
 Songs targeting Aam Aadmi Party played while the Congress functionaries were leaving the ground. This made the enthusiastic crowd give a resounding cheer. Congress volunteers had placed a pamphlet titled “Pardafash”, which was extremely critical of both AAP and BJP, to inform workers about the goings-on in Delhi.
 
 The roads leading to Ramlila Maidan saw huge traffic jams before and after the rally. Some workers from slum clusters found it difficult to locate the buses that had brought them to the venue. They left by public transport.
 
