CHENNAI: They are "Eyes in the Skies". Poaching, tree felling or any other non-forestry activity in tiger reserves will no longer be possible as the woods will be monitored by these   vehicles.

 Wildlife Institute of India (WII) researcher K Ramesh told TOI that both the Union Ministry of Forests, Environment and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and the   (NTCA) have agreed to increase surveillance in tiger reserves using drones. The WII will provide training for select foot soldiers of the forest department on the use of unmanned aerial surveillance systems.
 
 A total of 13 tiger reserves have been identified across the country where drones will be used for surveillance. This includes Corbett, Dudhwa, Kaziranga, Namdapha, Sundarbans, Simlipal, Ranthampore, Panna, Melghat, Srislam-Nagarjunasagar, Bandipur, Sathyamangalam and Parambikulam. Drones were already used on a trial basis in Sathyamangalam for three days in May.
 
 Ramesh said the drones will be operated at random to conduct surprise surveys of the reserves. Areas in the reserve will be covered by these unmanned aerials based on GPS coordinates, which will be configured using special mapping software. The drones will go to these points on autopilot. However, these locations can be modified even while the drone is still in the air, he said.
 
 The institute has permission to use drones for surveillance for three years . The state governments are free to convert them into full-time toold if they wish to do so. 
 
 Ramesh said data collected form these drones at the local levl has to be vetted by the Ministry of Defence. Thereafter, it can be used for management of the concerned reserve.
 
 This unmanned aerial surveillance is not meant for tigers alone, but for the overall habitat. So, the aim is to cover as much area as possible with this equipment, he said.
 
 “Drones are not required compulsorily for monitoring the  . It depends on the local requirement and resource available with the state governments. However, two drones per range will be ideal to monitor the forests,” he said.
 
 Answering a question on the duration of a  , Ramesh said it depends on the   of the machine. Technically, the available drone can fly for an hour covering 40km, which can be increased with newer technology. The cost of the drones, which vary from model to model, ranges between Rs 2 lakh to Rs 15 lakh.
 
