AURANGABAD:   is indeed a very strong risk factor for developing chronic  , caution  .

 While kidney disease and obesity — healthy lifestyle for healthy kidneys is the theme for the   this year, doctors have cautioned that obesity is one of the major risk factor for vital blood filtration organs.
 
 Obesity is an increasingly serious health problem worldwide as well as in India. Considerable chunk of population from both urban and rural areas have been suffering from obesity. “As far as urban areas are concerned, about 30% to 65% adults are either overweight or obese or have abdominal obesity,” senior nephrologist Sudhir Kulkarni said.
 
 He said the additional weight put up on body causes stress in the functioning of kidneys. “The obesity and blood filtration rate of kidneys are directly proportional. As weight increases, kidneys have to work more putting stress on the organs,” he said, adding that kidneys of an obese person are larger in size.
 
 Nephrologists claimed that a person with obesity has 80% more risk of developing kidney ailments as compared to those with normal weight. 
 
 Nephrologist Kshitija Gadekar said obesity coupled with diabetes and hypertension pose multiple risk to kidneys. “Obesity is preventable by healthy lifestyle, including proper nutrition and exercise. The fundamental cause of obesity is an increased intake of energy-dense foods that are high in fat and an increase in physical inactivity,” she said.
 
 Gadekar said obesity can be reduced by limiting energy intake from total fats, sugars and processed food. It is advocated to increase consumption of fruit and vegetables, as well as legumes, whole grains and nuts and engaging in regular physical activity. Around 60 minutes of such activity a day for children and 150 minutes spread through the week for adults is advised, she said.
 
 Health experts have categorically advised that inactive people should start slow and gradually increase physical activity. 
 
 While anti-obesity drugs can be fancied as quick measure to shed some body weight, doctors advise that those should be used only in conjunction with diet and lifestyle modifications as a part of comprehensive weight loss programme under the supervision of health experts.
 
 Kuldeep Roul, vice-president of   (IMA), Aurangabad chapter, appealed to public at large to keep their weight under check. 
 
 “The chronic kidney diseases often convert into need of dialysis and other complex health conditions. To avoid such ailments, everyone should commit for keeping kidneys in good condition,” he said.
 
