Even as the Union government under the  , is aiming to make the country open-defecation free by 2019, the Manapparai panchayat in   district is employing a technique — used by many villages in North India — to prevent residents of Seegampatti   from defecating in the open and use toilets instead. The panchayat has tasked women from self-help groups with patrolling open spaces and fields of the village, asking them to whistle when they see people defecating in the open. These women later sensitise such residents on the health hazards of the practice, encouraging them to use/build toilets in their houses. 

 The women have been engaged with the job as part of the village poverty reduction committee where one motivator has been assigned to sensitise each village panchayat. The panchayat is presently concentrating on creating awareness among the women of the village as authorities believe the message will reach families faster if the women are educated about it. 
 
 "Having used open spaces all these years, there are many women who avoid using toilets despite having one at home. Our initiative is to sensitise them on the health hazards they and other villagers may face due to  ," says Rajeswari, a motivator in Manapparai. 
 
 "Before the panchayat employed us to patrol the fields, many villagers used to avoid us when we visited their houses to sensitise them against open defecation," says Rajalakshmi, another motivator. While these motivators are not given salaries, those who make village panchayat open defecation free will be felicitated with `5000 cash reward. 
 
 "More than embarrassing women by whistling or using torchlights to identify them, the idea is to create awareness," says block coordinator under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) R V Ramalingasamy. 
 
 "Open defecation is rampant in villages during the evening. People tend to relieve themselves in open fields, water bodies and road sides which magnify the danger of diseases," he adds.
 
 Project director of district rural development agency R Malarvizhi says that several localised techniques were suggested at a meeting of Project Directors in Chennai a few weeks ago to prevent open defecation in rural areas. "While these techniques adopted in a few villages in north India have helped in making them open defecation free, we are now adopting them in our villages. We have also been asking residents to cover human waste with soil to prevent any outbreak of diseases and other health issues. The idea is to introduce a behavioral change among the rural population and encourage them to using toilets over relieving themselves in the open," she adds.
 
 
