HYDERABAD: The report submitted by the   (V&E) department nailed two major   in the state – Sri   and   – by imposing a penalty of over Rs 2.09 crore for various irregularities in their operation of junior colleges.

 Following a complaint filed by  , a student from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi Vidyarthi Vibhagam, against the junior colleges run by the two groups, V&E officials inititated an enquiry into 31 colleges in Ranga Reddy district in 2015. During the inspection, “V&E officials prima facie found several violations and lapses in the colleges”. 
 
 While the recent   jolted the student community, the V&E report, a copy of which is with STOI, reveals that the junior colleges run by the two groups were not adhering to the Telangana Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) norms. “Most of the colleges run by corporate institutions like Sri Chaitanya Education Committee and Narayana Educational Society have additional classes without any prior permission. They collect excess fees from the students, do not following the rule of reservation, have not obtained ‘no objection certificates’ from fire services department, admit more than the permitted strength of students in each class, etc.,” the report stated. V&E officials have also stated that the regional inspecting officers and TSBIE officials are not taking any steps to curb such violations. 
 
 The report further states that “if inquiry is taken up for both previous and subsequent years, the colleges will end up paying crores of rupees in penalty which will act as a deterrent to other corporate colleges violating rules and regulations.”
 
 The officials also found that the corporate colleges were running in monopoly which is in violation of government order Ms No 35, issued in 2007 of higher education department, government of Andhra Pradesh. As per the GO, no corporate colleges are allowed to establish colleges to the extent of more than 20 per cent of the total colleges existing in a mandal/municipality. “There are total 71 colleges in Saroornagar Mandal, of which 20 colleges belong to Narayana Educational Society, which is more than 20%. This, the society has grossly violated the GO Ms 35,” reads the report. 
 
 While the V&E officials had sought an action taken report from the TSBIE on the two educational groups, the TSBIE is yet to do the same. “Based on the vigilance cases, we served notices to the two groups six months ago to rectify the lapses. However, we are yet to take any action,” said A Ashok, secretary of TSBIE. 
 
 Rebutting the findings of the report, officials of Narayana Educational Society said that they have not indulged in any irregularities. “After received notice, we had submitted rebuttal to every violation mentioned in the report. We have not indulged in any irregularities and therefore are not liable to pay any penalty,” said V Srinath, administrative officer of Narayana Educational Society. 
 
 When STOI contacted officials from Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions for clarification, they said that they will respond later.
 
