“Yes, I did raise my voice against   that involve children, but I wasn’t just talking about the participants; I was talking about those who watch it as well. I was also feeling ashamed that people from my own fraternity are participating in it. I was drawing attention to the manner in which these shows are handled and designed. I feel that the innocence and purity of children are compromised. The child is put there and scrutinised in front of the world at that tender age, when talent really doesn’t matter. At that age, children are supposed to enjoy and do what they feel good about. While it is called a reality show, it’s actually not real. The children don’t understand that these shows are designed to sell. It is the parents and the makers who give consent on the children’s behalf. That’s why I have asked the authorities to look into it. Implement regulations and explore other ways that will help kids showcase their talent, rather than just rope in some judges and have the kids in a witness box. People from Bollywood are judging these shows for money. I have a child; the first thing you should focus on is the kind of moral values you are teaching your child. Also, what kind of values will the next generation grow up with? All the other arguments that support these reality shows are nothing when compared to the innocence, purity and morality of these children. There has to be a certain cut-off age. The shows cannot be judgmental the way they are currently, as the child will be under pressure. Kids should come, perform, enjoy and go. What I see currently is very disturbing. The kind of lyrics, the songs which they sing and perform to, they don’t even know their meaning... They don’t understand the jokes which are cracked by the custodians of Bollywood or Tollywood. What happens when the lights go off? What happens when they step out of the studio? The amount of pressure they come under from society and parents is a lot. When parents say, ‘Yaar, tu kar nahi paya’, the child is traumatised. On one hand, we talk about upbringing and on the other hand, society is breaking the child. It’s not advisable, as in the long run, it will affect the child psychologically.” 

 
 
 “Reality shows provide a platform to children who are gifted and have above-average capabilities to dance, act and sing. What a loss it would be if their talents were not brought to light and displayed to the world! There was a time when we didn’t have reality shows. Films were the only way forward. If Urmila Matondkar and Daisy Irani’s parents had not let them try the medium, would we really have found them on our own? They were free-willed kids and their talent got wings early on. They didn’t perform under pressure. While I am completely for reality shows featuring little ones, my problem lies with parents who don’t understand what childhood is. I’ve judged shows. I know that there are mothers and fathers who bring their children forward only to encourage them and the spirit of healthy competition at an early age. But I have also seen parents who use their children as tickets to instant fame. They pressurise the child to first learn an art form and then to display it to the world and win a competition, which will earn them brownie points. What they don’t realise is that this has the potential to ruin their child’s life. As a parent, I have observed children on the sets. Those who are not under any pressure perform well and enjoy their time on the sets like free birds. Their energy is infectious. And then, there are those kids who are under tremendous pressure to be spot-on and win. Their behaviour and body-language gives it away. Having said that, I want reality shows with kids because those that are gifted should be brought to light and their talent must not go waste. But I don’t want ambitious parents, who are a threat to what is popularly called childhood.” 
 
 
 
