JAIPUR: Chief minister   is all set to present   on Wednesday. With   due next year, the   is likely to announce various populist measures.

 Harping on a slew of programmes announced earlier, Raje will continue to build on it. However, it will also have goodies that will make momentum for her government. 
 
 In the offing would be the implementation of Seventh Pay Commission for the state government employees. Already a committee has been constituted to look into the recommendations of the commission and submit its report in three months. Total burden on the exchequer will be around Rs 10,000 crore, however, it will be released in tranches. 
 
 Giving boost to regional connectivity, the government may also announce air connectivity between Jaipur and Agra, Jaipur and Jaisalmer and extend Delhi to Bikaner. State has already submitted a proposal to the Centre and it may find mentioning as part of Regional Air Flight Connectivity Scheme during Budget.
 
 Ongoing pilot project of providing five litres of ghee to BPL women and post-institutional delivery will also be extended in all the districts. At present, it is running in seven districts. 
 
 On the infrastructure front, the state may extend coverage of its existing missing links roads. Sources claim that Rajasthan has received additional grant of Rs 1,500 crore for the purpose that will be utilized for connecting rural areas. Moreover, there has been a proposal to add new villages with population of more than 500 on the basis of Census of 2011. 
 
 However, with goods and service tax (GST) to be rolled out from July, no major announcements will be made on the taxation front. The Budget will make provisions for changes that will follow in coming months. 
 
 After devolution of funds, state has received an additional grant of around Rs 2,000 crore. Along with it, the state will also receive the compensation from the Center post GST implementations. Officials claim that this additional money will go into major programmes that CM would like to see rolling out in next 16 months. 
 
 
