UDHAGAMANDALAM: Artificially decorating the Government Botanical Garden ( ), the crown of Ooty, is nothing but killing the ‘Queen of Hills’, say environmentalists. They ask, “Why should a whole load of over 1 lakh cut flowers of roses and carnations be transported from   just to erect artificial structures in the middle of the beautiful lawns in the  . Instead, that could be easily done and showcased where the cut flowers are grown. It is for the authorities to maintain the natural beauty of Ooty.”

 In its 121-year history, only in the past two decades has the ‘flower show’ seen artificial models made of cut flowers. Also, the horticulture department has been spending a considerable chunk of funds to procure cut flowers from Hosur and   and for labour from outside to erect the models.
 
 “Ooty is known for its natural beauty. And the Government Botanical Garden and the Government Rose Garden are the best in the country. Then what is the need for additional  ,” asks an environmentalist on condition of anonymity. “The horticulture department could utilise the funds to improve the gardens in a natural way. Also, in the name of vegetable and spice shows, the horticulture department is wasting food items, which is highly condemnable.”
 
 On an average, around 2,000 kg of vegetables and around 100 kg of spices are used every year to conduct the shows. These finally go waste.
 
 “There are many other ways to attract tourists and promote tourism. It is high time the officials and as well as the government realised the importance of the hills and its natural beauty,” pointed out the environmentalist.
 
 However, officials of the horticulture department say floral models and vegetable structures are attractions to tourists and the footfalls to the hills are more during the show days. “Erecting floral and vegetable models has become an annual practice during the shows. It is not in the hands of our department to abolish the practice. The government has to take a decision in this regard,” said a senior official of horticulture department.
 
 GBG collects over 10 crores annually as entry fees.
 
