HYDERABAD: It’s not just regulation of diet, of equal importance   is maintaining   Dentists in the city say a few simple tips will   caused due to long hours of fasting, fight   due to   as well as improve digestion and keep constipation at bay.

  have suggested a list of dos and donts for a healthy Ramzan fasting as the ninth month of Islamic Hegira calendar is also an occasion for feasting for some. Fasting Muslims often complain of bad breath. This can be avoided, say doctors, by brushing teeth after Sahar (pre-dawn meal) and Iftar (breaking of fast after sunset). This removes food particles stuck in the teeth that lead to bad breath and dryness of mouth.
 
 Dr Mohammad Siraj Ur Rahman, professor at Government Dental College (Osmania) and Neodent Dental Hospitals, recommends scraping of tongue after Sahar and Iftar as well. “Scrape your tongue twice daily as it prevents bacterial biofilm, mucus and debris from forming on the tongue. Use odourless dental floss to prevent bad odour,” he said, while recommending use of Miswak twig. It is a tradition of Prophet Muhammad to use Miswak twig for brushing teeth as it contains medicinal properties.
 
 Dr Rahman also recommends drinking a lot of water at Sahar and Iftar. People who wear dentures should put them in an antiseptic solution overnight to clean them. “Cavities and broken tooth should be treated before Ramzan,” he said.
 
 Dental surgeon Dr Nashwa Sultana Omer of Dinesh’s Dental Paradise says it is crucial to maintain dental health during Ramzan. “Oral health not only improves one’s facial personality, but also boosts self-esteem and confidence in social interactions,” she said.
 
 Dr Nashwa recommends that those on fast should take fruits and boiled vegetables at Iftar as they have high fibre content. This will help in re-mineralization of teeth naturally. “Because fasting people stay up to 14.5 hours without food and water, it can accelerate the decay process, particularly if one consumes sugary foods while breaking fast,” she said.
 
 Periodontally compromised and diabetic patients should use chlorhexidine mouthwash twice daily to prevent further damage of gums. “Get oral prophylaxis done before Ramzan begins to make sure the health of gums do not worsen during fasting,” she added.
 
