Panchkula: Panchkula residents are miffed with the decision of Haryana government, which has transferred four Municipal Corporation (MC) commissioners since December 2015.

 Due to this move a large number of works are pending in the MC as the presence of chief MC official is a rare sight. As per the information given by the local residents and members of welfare association, no officer was posted in the MC office in the year 2015.
 
 “After a prolonged time lapse the position was handed over to Jagdeep Dhanda. But in July last year he was also transferred when works had started picking up pace ,” they stated.
 
 Later, in August 2016, officer Lalit Siwach was posted as MC chief but a controversy with the mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia over the development works resulted in a transfer yet again.
 
 In May this year, an IAS officer Shaleen was given the charge of civic body but he was also transferred within two months after an episode of dispute with journalist.
 
 Another IAS officer AK Meena who was simultaneously holding two other significant charges — one as director of Panchayat and rural development and another as special secretary to state government could only visit the office of MC thrice during his charge. He was also relieved from charge on September 12 and since then the post is vacant.
 
 Suresh Rathi, a resident of sector 10, said, “An officer with individual charge is required as a number of pending works need approval. They are being unnecessarily delayed.”
 
 President of citizen welfare association, SK Nayar said, “Various officers have been transferred due to internal politics. Residents of Panchkula are suffering as there is no sign of development in the city. When an officer takes the post and gets familiar with city, he/she gets transferred or removed.”
 
 President of RWA, R K Aggarwal said, “Roads, sanitation and maintenance of public toilets are among major problems which are not being resolved by the MC. We don’t expect other developmental from the office.”
 
 
