HYDERABAD: The recent events at   and the debate revolving around them have the potential to threaten national security, Union minister M   has said.

 Calling the discussions on free speech surrounding protests and counter-protests by students in three universities in New Delhi, Venkaiah Naidu said the debate was being wrongly interpreted as one between   and free speech. Venkaiah Naidu said: “It is not free speech, but national security that is at stake."
 
 “Regardless of what political philosophy a party or a group subscribes, national security concerns should be common, To say that Kashmir needs Azaadi, or Bastar needs Azaadi, or glorifying Afzal Guru or Yakub Memon means supporting balkanization of India,“ Venkaiah Naidu said.
 
 He was speaking with reporters in the city.“It is a well-known fact that no fundamental right is absolute and the Constitution has placed reasonable restrictions in the context of freedom of expression. Are the opposition parties unaware of this or is there a deeper, darker, more sinister agenda at work here?“ Venkaiah Naidu sought to know.
 
 The Union minister was commenting over the controversy that erupted after Gurmehar Kaur, the daughter of a Kargil War martyr protested against the February 22 clashes at Ram jas College in Delhi. The clashes between All India Students Association and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad members on February 22, followed obstruction of Jawaharlal Nehru student Umar Khalid from speaking at the college. Venkaiah Naidu also took strong objection to what he called “Orwellian doublespeak“ by opposition parties on the issue. “Nothing can be farther from the truth that the government is dubbing its critics as `anti-nationals' as being alleged by opposition parties,“ he said. The opposition parties, the senior BJP leader said, were trying to make it appear that unrest was sweeping across the more than 740 university campuses in the country , while in reality, protests were taking place in about five or six universities.
 
 “Anti-government slogans are understandable, but no right-thinking person will tolerate anti-national slogans. Dissent is agreeable, but those wanting to disintegrate the country cannot be tolerated,“ he added.
 
