Lucknow: For a party that got decimated in the UP assembly elections, Bahujan Samaj Party did well enough in  , which is also credited as the caste laboratory of party founder  .Out of the five seats in the Dalit and MBC dominated district, BSP won three, the highest in any one district. State president of the party Ram Achal Rajbhar won from Akbarpur, while Ritesh Pandey got elected from Jalalpur. Medical education minister in the previous   government Lalji Verma got elected from the Katehari seat.

 BSP had won all five seats in 2007 but was wiped out completely from the district in 2012 when SP stormed to power with absolute majority. This time, SP lost all five seats, while Tanda and Alapur reserved seats were won by the BJP.
 
 Alapur reserved seat held big significance for Mayawati who had contested from here in 2002. The seat was then known as Jehangirganj. Following the delimitation exercise in 2007, BSP old-timer Tribhuwan Dutt contested for Alapur and won. Dutt, however, lost the seat in 2012 but Mayawati gave him the ticket again this time. Dutt, however, not only lost the seat but was on third place, way behind winner BJP’s Sangeeta.
 
 Political experts said BSP losing this seat again was an indication of BJP making inroads into the Dalit vote bank which has been siding with Mayawati since Kanshiram experimented with bringing the marginalised castes together.
 
 Tanda too continued to haunt the BSP which lost the seat once again, this time to BJP. The saffron party, in fact, played its card well in the seat by fielding Sanju Devi, wife of Hindu Yuva Vahini leader Ram Babu Gupta who was reportedly murdered in 2013. During a rally in 2014, PM Narendra Modi had promised justice to Sanju Devi.
 
 Party sources said Mayawati was particularly concerned about Ambedkarnagar, the district she carved out of Faizabad in 1995 when she became UP chief minister for the first time. During one of her rallies in Ambedkarnagar, Mayawati got all five candidates paraded on the dais while asking party supporters to forgive them. “Agar in logon se koi ghalti ho gayi ho to inko maaf kar dena...aap inko nahi apni behenji ko vote doge... (Pardon them if they’ve committed a mistake…it will be for me),” Mayawati had said.
 
 BOX
 
 Now, for some pep talk
 
 Lucknow: Given her political loses, BSP chief Mayawati now faces an uphill task of resurrecting her party from the very scratch. The bruised Dalit queen will call her party cadres to Lucknow on the occasion of birth anniversary of party founder Kanshiram on Wednesday. Party sources said Mayawati has asked her party coordinators to bring supporters to the Kanshiram Smarak on the VIP road where she is likely to address them. She is also expected to hold a meeting of party functionaries to devise her strategy afresh.
 
 Mayawati is learnt to have been meeting a select few party functionaries at her Lucknow residence after the results. Party sources remained tight-lipped and sources said Mayawati is struggling to keep up the morale of her party’s cadre who worked overtime throughout the election season.
 
 
