MEERUT: A week after there was stiff opposition against Meerut   mayor’s decision to make singing of Vande Mataram mandatory in the Nigam’s board meetings, in the Monday meeting, three Muslim councillors did not enter the hall until the song was over. Their entry afterwards was not opposed by other councillors.
 
  Earlier, there was a custom in which those who did not wish to sing the national song were allowed to leave the hall and return later. On March 29, mayor   had stated that once a person leaves the premises before the singing of Vande Mataram begins, he or she would not be allowed to come back.
  
  However, in what was seen as a softening of the stand, the three councillors who arrived late were allowed to enter the hall. The meeting was scheduled to start at 11 am. The mayor waited for 45 minutes for all the councillors to reach the hall and after that Vande Mataram was started. Once the song was finished, Shahid Abbasi, Adil Ahmad and  , entered the hall and took their seats.
  
  Speaking to TOI, Abbasi said, “We did not wish to court any controversy this time so we did not come to the board meeting on time at all. We entered only once the singing was finished. Nevertheless, our stand is still the same. No one can be compelled to sing the national song. Had it been the national anthem, we would have heartily participated.”
  
  Voices of protest were heard in the Nagar Nigam board meeting on March 29 when mayor Harikant Ahluwalia declared that every board member will have to sing the song or would not be allowed to re-enter the board meeting if they left.
  
  Although the resolution still needed the government's nod, the development led to a protest by a few Muslim board members who said that “singing Vande Mataram is not mandatory”. When a few Muslim municipal counsellors began leaving the room, the BJP members began shouting, “Hindustan mein rehna hai to Vande Mataram kehna hoga”.
  
  In fact, recital of the national song has been taking place for a long time, and those who did not wish to participate could leave and return later.
