HYDERABAD: With tipplers slated to revel further with the  , effective October 1, extending the closing hours of retail liquor outlets to 11 pm, there has been a scramble from vendors to secure licences.

 On Tuesday , the last date for applying for the licence, over 30,000 applications were received for the 2,216 liquor outlets across the state. In districts like by Warangal, Nalgonda and Ranga Reddy , there were serpentine queues even till late in the evening, much after the deadline for accepting the applications ended at 5 pm.
 
 The excise department notified allotment of 2,216 retail liquor outlets a week ago for the 2017-19 years. The draw of lots will take place on September 22 and the new outlets will become functional on October 1.
 
 The huge response from vendors was despite the fact that the excise department had increased the application fee substantially in order to discourage non-serious people. Last time, there were no takers for 72 retail outlets.This time, till last reports came in, applications have been received for almost all the outlets.
 
 “On average, 12 to 15 applications have been received for each liquor shop. Districts such as Khammam and Kothgudem saw applications as high as 25 per outlet. Hyderabad recorded the lowest applications, amounting to about 7 to 8 for each outlet. “The final figure would be known only by late night,“ principal secretary (revenue) Somesh Kumar told TOI.
 
 Officials said fewer applications in Hyderabad as compared to districts like Nalgonda, Khammam, Warangal and Ranga Reddy was due to the lack of availability of ren tal space. Officials believe that newcomers would not be able to find space as many major outlets are in vicinity of residential localities, religious places and educational institutions.
 
 The department hopes the state government would net about `200 to `300 crore more than what it earned in the previous two-year licence period. “The last time, the state government earned `155 crore towards application fee. It is expected to touch `300 crore now. Similarly , the licence fee is expected to jump to `1,400 crore from the `1,200 crore generated earlier,“ Kumar said.
 
 According to officials, nearly 4,000 applications were received in Ranga Reddy , 5,000 applications in Nalgonda and 325 applications in Hyderabad. Sources said there were no application for seven shops in Hyderabad. “Since we allowed vendors who reached the offices before 5 pm submit them even after expiry of deadline, the exact number of applications will be known only by late night,“ excise commissioner R V Chandravadan said.
 
