MUMBAI: The state legislature passed the   and   ( ) Act, 2017, ratification bill on Monday. While the government allayed inflation fears, the bill spelled out punishment ranging from six months to five years for various wrongdoings.

 The bill provides for five years’ imprisonment if evasion is to the tune of Rs 5 crore, and if a person abets commission of an offence, he shall be punished with imprisonment of six months and a fine.
 
 After the bill was passed unanimously in the assembly on the last day of a special three-day session, chief minister   thanked the Speaker, the ruling party members and Opposition leaders for their cooperation. “This is a historic moment and we are witnesses to it,” he said.
 
 In his reply during a debate on the bill, finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said it had been proven worldwide that GST did not give rise to inflation. “There are over 160 countries in the world, including Canada, New Zealand, Indonesia and the UK, where GST is being implemented. However, they have not faced inflation. In fact, the GDP of these countries has increased,” he said.
 
 He said that the new law would have a provision to convene a GST council meeting once in two months to amend rates if a sector felt unjustifiably burdened. There is also a provision to change the tax rate during any crisis situation like a drought.
 
 He said that in the GST regime, no tax would be imposed on a turnover of up to Rs 20 lakh. He said there would be tax rates of zero, 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%.
 
 In the council, MoS for finance, Deepak Kesarkar, assuaged fears that the provision on offences would be misused. He said similar provisions had been made for evasion of VAT. “Only five to six persons were actually punished,” he said.
 
 On the Opposition’s demand that the cap on taxation be brought down to 18%, Kesarkar said the maximum taxation rate applicable is 14%. He said the state revenue would be affected for two years, but the Centre had committed to compensate the loss at a rate of 14%.
 
 In the council, Congress MLA Sharad Ranpise said the GST should be under the purview of the Comptroller & Auditor General. He asked how the government would protect taxpayer data when a private operator was to handle the system.
 
 Opposition leader Dhananjay Munde said while farmers would be taxed if they rented out their lands, the same was not applicable to builders.
 
 
