KOLKATA: Classmate and   (98.3 FM) had launched the ninth season of the contest three months ago with `every child is unique and so is every word' as the theme.

 Kirti Dudheria from  , Kolkata, emerged as the winner in the third level of the competition and will now be in contention to compete in the national finals of the event. However, a city winner does not automatically qualify for the national finals. Only 16 students with the top scores across India qualify purely on the merit of their scores. The finals will be telecast on The Discovery Channel, Discovery Kids and Discovery Tamil.
 
 Kolkata is one of the 30 cities in which the online semi finals were conducted. In the initial phases of the competition, an on-ground exercise was conducted at DPS Megacity where students from 44 schools took spelling tests.The 15 highest scorers from each school then competed in the city finals.
 
 The top performers from the city finals then participated in the semi-finals.
 
 Shailendra Tyagi, chief executive, ITC's education and stationery products business, said: “Classmate has always endeavoured to recognize, nurture and celebrate the uniqueness of every child. 'Classmate Spell Bee Season 9' takes our brand thought of celebrating uniqueness further with the aim of reaching out to a larger number students across India, through a school contact programme coupled with a mobile app and a website to engage the youngsters.“
 
 Sumit Aggarwal, senior vice-president and national head, activations, Entertainment Network (India) Limi ted, said: “Spell Bee has grown beyond just a competition for schoolchildren and is proud to celebrate its ninth season. We at Radio Mirchi find it heartening to see how popular it has become among India's young spellers.“
 
 The national champion of 'Classmate Spell Bee Season 9' will win Rs 2,00,000, apart from the opportunity to witness the prestigious `Scripps National Spelling Bee' with a parent in Washing ton DC in the US on an allexpenses-paid trip. The semifinalists will each win Rs 50,000 in cash.
 
 The spelling competition this year is powered by The Times of India, with Times NIE as the education partner and Discovery Kids as the television partner.
 
  is the event partner for the competition.
 
