BHOPAL: Safety of participants and visitors are being compromised at the   being held here at Kaliasot Dam. Despite accidents in the past, the organizers have failed to take lessons.

 The fest is organized by MP State Tourism department in a bid to attract youth towards adventure sports.
 
 Times of India visited the venue for a reality check and found violation of safety norms. At quad bike riding, it was found that an instructor, was sitting behind two children under minors under the age of 10, was riding the bike with one hand. The child sitting in between was not wearing the helmet. Midway into the ride, the cellphone of instructor rings and he attends the call leaving the kids to negotiate the ride. Surprisingly, family members of the children were happily clicking pictures.
 
 At the wall climbing site youth were climbing the wall, without any protection-- helmets and shoes. The youth were climbing the wall in sandals, while the harness tied to them was held by an instructor who was standing behind risking a fall.
 
 The reverse bungee was not less than a jerky experience. There were two bungee rides, one for those with body weight less than 50 kg while other for those above 50 kg. For those under 50kg it is a simple bungee jump (trampoline) and nor reverse bungee. But, in the absence of a weighing machine at the spot the instructors relied on participant’s word on body weight. During the reverse bungee jump, participants under 50 kg weight managed to get through and some overturned and landed with a jerk.
 
 Yogesh Bawade, 21, a participant, who lives in Betul, told TOI, “Safety measures are not adequate. I saw my friends at wall climbing were not given helmets and shoes. Most of them climbed the wall in sandals.
 
 Nitin Mehra, 19, another participant, who lives in Kolar area, said, “In bungee jumping as instructors had no idea about body weight of participants they relied on participant’s word. Those with low weight managed to get through for reverse bungee.”
 
 Ritesh Sharma, joint secretary,  , said, “Even I had noticed some flaws in the safety measures that instructors should take care of. I had arranged a meeting in which I am going to brief about them and will ask the instructors to take the safety as priority.”
 
 “Some flaws that I noticed includes security in the camp area, indemnity bond is still not filled which is very necessary, proper lighting in the major areas like toilets and preventing visitors from coming in way of para-motoring activity,” Sharma said.
 
 He said “We will arrange for a weighing machine at reverse bungee jumping to ensure that people under 50 kg don’t go for it. Activities like para-motoring and para-sailing needs strict safety measures and there should be proper check of weight of the participant before going for the ride.”
 
 “I want to promote these activities among youth in state capital so that Bhopal can be an adventure sports hub and this   becomes and permanent affair throughout the year,” Sharma added.
 
 Due to high ticket price for the hot air balloon no visitor turned up till date. Other activities including Jet Ski are highly costly due to which no client has applied for the ride.
 
 Sanjay Sharma, a businessman said, “Paying Rs 8,000 per person just to take a hot air balloon ride of one hour is not less than throwing money in the river.”
 
 Another visitor Karan Raj, a student, said “Though the prices have come down compared to last year but still one has to think twice before paying Rs 8,000. So it is better to go for other activities.”
 
 Sharma said, “These rates are of last year only; we have just reduced fares in some activities. Talking about hot air balloon, he said, it actually costs us Rs 35,000 per hour, but to promote such adventure in the city we have subsidised it to Rs 8,000 per person.” 
 
