By Shalini Pillay

  culture is shaped by values, shared beliefs and behaviour of the work force. It is a cumulative outcome of the employees’ sentiment and actions and, hence, also reflects the organisation climate, which is perceptible and can be measured.
 
 Over the past few years the workplace has been significantly influenced by developments in the technology space, economic drivers, emerging business models and demographics — all of which have had an impact on how organisations choose to build and align their work cultures. It is important to align the demands of the business and marketplace, while constantly shifting gears to align the organisation. Also, creating an environment that unleashes the passion and potential of the employees is of the essence.
 
 Paramount to providing a holistic environment, in which employees can grow, is a membership model as opposed to an ownership model. Organisations must strive to create a more collaborative and inclusive culture so as to leverage the strength of the organisation as a whole. At KPMG in India, ‘A Culture of Teamwork’ is core to our DNA and the environment we strive to create. Across the organisation, people are encouraged to work together collaboratively and we are constantly revisiting our operating models, policies and processes to enable the same.
 
 Humans by nature are social beings and therefore will collaborate to align themselves to meet various needs. This influences behaviour in a significant manner. If we observe, employees across various levels collaborate differently. For example, young millennials prefer to engage themselves with their growing social networks. Employees at senior levels participate and contribute actively at forums where they would be recognised as influencers. Hence, collaboration and inclusion is central to influencing behaviour at an individual level and also within an organisation.
 
 Understanding collaborative quotient (CQ) and leveraging it the right way at various levels in an organisation is imperative to build an inclusive culture, while also addressing the “what’s in it for me?”question. Additionally, if CQ can be embedded in the work approach, delivery models, performance development and career progression philosophy, it could go a long way to build the desired culture in a more sustainable manner.
 
 At KPMG, we understand the importance of this and our approach is to focus on elements that further build on a collaborative and inclusive culture. We have revisited our workplace policies, enhanced our approach to defining the journey to build leadership skills, refined metrics that would drive behaviour, — all towards driving up the CQ and   across the organisation. We also believe This will lay the foundation for the future workforce, wherein the emerging economy, agile workforces, alliances and partnerships will demand collaboration and inclusivity.
 
 Further, if organisations are to remain competitive, building a workplace culture which fosters inclusivity and leverages the team for its strengths will be imperative. A nimble workforce of high CQ, with a blend of enterprising and confident individuals, combining as a team is what will enable companies to achieve their goals most effectively. The term “Teamwork makes the dream work” indeed stands true.
 
 How To Boost CQ
 
 Teamwork ought to be driven through higher levels of   (CQ) which is the systematic intelligence that emerges as we come to realise that ‘we are all in this together’.
 
 • In a market context, where the need to differentiate is an imperative, customising solutions to meet the evolving needs of customers is crucial. The opportunity is to look beyond intelligence quotient (IQ), which measures the business relevant cognitive skills, and emotional quotient (EQ), which measures emotional intelligence, and shift gears towards CQ — which has the ability to truly harness the power of networks.
 
 • CQ provides an organisation the ability to tap into the collective talent of its best people to develop solutions that represent their combined best input.
 
 • Importantly CQ feeds off human behaviour and individual purpose. It can be enhanced through collaborative groupware,   and set of capabilities that should be defined partly by behaviours and competencies.
 
 The writer is partner and head (people, performance & culture),  . All views are personal
 
 
