PALAKKAD: After assuming office in May last year, the   government had promised that no more infants will die in Attapadi. But it failed in its promise. 

 Despite the development of medical infrastructure facilities, tribal infant deaths and malnutrition among tribal mothers remains a major problem in Attapadi. Since January this year, eight tribal infant deaths have been reported. In 2012-13, Attappadi had garnered national attention following the death of 63 tribal children. Those deaths were mainly due to malnutrition and poor health of mothers. In the wake of large number of tribal infant deaths the then, central and state governments had announced a special package of Rs 400 crore for tribal welfare in Attapadi. But last year, a health department survey had identified 672 children suffering from malnutrition. Of them, 37 children were in the category of severe acute malnutrition. "Despite the huge fund flow, malnutrition among children still persists. This shows that the nutrition schemes do not reach the children," said K A Ramu, convenor of 'Thampu' a tribal organization.
 
 Nodal officer for Attappadi Dr   said, "The most important issue at Attappadi is unemployment. You will see tribal men idling away their time. Some of them are alcoholics, which again impact the health of already fragile population."
 
 He said that there should be efforts to encourage people to take up cultivation. Over the years, thousands of hectares of agricultural land have been alienated in Attappadi. But no efforts were made to take back the illegally occupied agricultural land from outsiders, Ramu added.
 
 In June, 2013, then Union rural development minister   had asked the state government to solve the alienation of over 10,000 acres of tribal land. 
 
 "This issue should be solved with a political will, otherwise no amount of development projects would succeed," he said.
 
 "Curiously, the issues of alienated land and bringing back tribals into farming have been deliberately kept away from the debates on Attappadi. The decline of agriculture has led to the present tragedy. The government should devise an Attappadi development plan which envisages recovery of the alienated tribal land,'' said  , president of 'Thambu'.
 
 The third phase of development of the   in Attapadi will be inaugurated on Saturday by health minister K K Shylaja. The function will be presided over by tribal welfare minister A K Balan.
 
