KOLKATA: If London has   and Kolkata has Maidan,   has its lungs too. A popular haunt for joggers, nature enthusiasts and lovers, this is a patch of nature in the heart of Bidhannagar. Now that the urban development department is set to revamp  , Salt Lake residents can’t contain their happiness. 

 Once the season’s fairs are over, the grounds will start being laid out aesthetically — not just to enhance a visitor’s shopping experience, but to create a greener ambience for regulars by planting ornamental plants like foxtail, palm and Krishnachura.
 
 The facelift will begin from the outer perimeter. The space outside the gate will be landscaped with hillocks and manicured lawns, and the gates will be rebuilt with motifs representing art from the different districts of Bengal. But the biggest draw will be giant chess boards, like those in Europe, that the public can actually use. The pieces on the board will be of plastic so that people can move them. 
 
 “I’m glad that Central Park is getting a facelift. This place is more than a morning walkers’ track and lovers’ paradise. It draws huge family crowds during fairs, and we, the residents, would love to spend more time in the quiet, natural setting,” said   of GD Block. 
 
 The retired professor frequents Banabitan inside Central Park to spend time in the lap of nature. 
 
 “The corners of Central Park have heaps of leaves waiting to be cleared and rusty old paddle-boats dumped in the vicinity. I hope the park will be cleaner after the makeover,” says  , a resident of BF Block who takes a walk in Central Park every morning.
 
 Central Park is spread across 70acres, of which Banabitan covers 56. This part has lofty trees, lawns, rose gardens, an orchid house, butterfly gardens and a 15-acre waterbody. The park also has a children’s play area.
 
 The area demarcated for fairs has a permanent stage, which will also be renovated, and permanent changing rooms will be added. A bio-toilet complex will replace the existing one in the middle of the park. The big-ticket Bidhannagar Mela is held here. Central Park is also home to a cricket academy, the municipal sports ground and a swimming pool. A local and international bus terminus and the upcoming East-West Metro terminus are also located on the park grounds.
 
 
