CHENNAI: The landmark white structure on Elliot’s beach,  , which was restored in mid-2014 is in ruins again.

 The gate of the steel picket fence which protected the 86-year-old memorial, built to commemorate the bravery of a Danish national who died while saving a drowning woman, has broken. People, mostly young couples, climb inside the monument and deface it with graffiti. The sand around it is littered with plastic and the surrounding garden does not bloom anymore. The security booth has been dismantled and the lamp posts are not to be seen either. Neither is there a guard on duty.
 
 Next to the memorial, a few policemen have pitched a tent but they have nothing to do with the monument. They have been stationed to keep an eye on students congregating in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi. Unnoticed, youngsters keep trickling into the memorial. While some take selfies and photos, others vandalise it with messages of ‘love’.
 
 People who had once drawn attention of the authorities to restore the crumbling structure which had become a urinal and hangout for binge sessions a few years ago have called for more awareness.
 
 “It is heartbreaking to see the memorial, which is a symbol for the city, being neglected again after so many years of effort,” said  , a resident of   who campaigned for its restoration. After other government agencies refused to take responsibility,   took up restoration work of the memorial with technical help from archaeologists and also completed the landscaping for more than Rs 15 lakh. “If the authorities fail to maintain this, we will go on a protest,” said Subramanian.
 
 Former corporation officials involved in the restoration work said official apathy has led to the memorial being vandalised again. But local officers said they will take up maintenance soon. “The maintenance contract ended last September. We will call for a new tender and keep guards round-the-clock and fit the flood lights,” said a senior official. “We understand that this memorial is important to Chennai. Though it is structurally sound after restoration, we have had to repaint it twice and repair the grills because there are several miscreants who vandalise it. We even stationed a man from the nearby settlement as a guard,” he said.
 
 Asked why all the plants in the garden have dried up, the official said due to the harsh climate the corporation has decided to opt for hard landscaping such as installing natural rocks which do not violate coastal environment norms.
 
 
