JAIPUR: The Jaipur Smart Mission Ltd (JSML) eco-friendly cycle track project will be cut down to size. To promote non-motorized transport system in the city,   had proposed to construct a 50km-long cycle track in various areas. 

 The project was proposed to be taken up in two phases. In phase I, the cycle track was to be developed on JLN Marg, between   and  , which is a 9-km stretch. However, even after preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for phase-I, the JSML will construct a track in 3-km stretch between Albert Hall to Trimurti Circle. "Initially, we will only construct 3-km sample track. Funds of Rs 10 crore has been reserved for the phase -I," said a JSML official.
 
 Sources said, due to lack of coordination and support from other civic agencies, the JSML has decided to develop a cycle track on smaller stretch. "The JSML has proposed to JMC to develop a cycle track from Amber as many tourists visit the area. However, the proposal was refused. Even the   officials have not shown enthusiasm for developing dedicated track on JLN Marg and other areas claiming the road width is less," said source.
 
 It was proposed that a cycle track will be on the corner of the road. The JSML had decided to paint the dedicated track for easy identification of cyclist. However, JDA has raised objection in this regard as it would reduce the width of the road.
 
 Meanwhile, the mission is all set to introduce a public bicycle sharing (PBS) scheme.
 
 As per the scheme, one can rent a bicycle from docking stations that will be set up at 20 public and tourists locations in the city. The project will be developed in phases and JSML will launch the scheme initially at five stations ion various localities.
 
 Once the entire network is over, it would cover a nearly six sqkm area. Initially, these docking stations will be installed at  , behind  , in front of   (JLN Marg), New Gate and Trimurti Circle.
 
 A Delhi-based firm, Greenolution, has been selected for the project and JSML already issued the work. 
 
 
