CHENNAI:   knows all about playing in Chennai. He was still a talented rookie when he won the tournament for the first time way back in 2009, beating the crowd favourite   in the final. A lot has changed since then, Somdev is now retired, while Cilic is at the top of his game. And this will be his sixth appearance here when he takes the court on Wednesday as the top seed.

 There was an initial sense of disappointment among the fans when the news came out that the three-time defending champion   won't come to defend his title this year. The Swiss artist, who incidentally lost to Cilic in the 2010 final, would surely be missed, but then the Chennai crowd would love to rekindle an old affair with the Croat.
 
 The field doesn't look too imposing but the World No. 6 may not find it very easy, more so because it's just the beginning of the season. The second seed Roberto Bautista Agut will possibly pose the biggest threat to the 2014 US Open Champion. The World No. 14 Spaniard pulled off an upset in October when he beat   in the semi-finals of Shanghai Masters before going down to Andy Murray.
 
 There's Frenchman Benoit Paire, the fifth seed, who can also pose a tough challenge to Cilic. Paire had beaten Cilic the last time they played here, in 2013. Though the Croat has avenged that defeat, beating Paire twice in 2016 at Tokyo and Marseille, the Frenchman could be a tough nut to crack in Chennai. "I am looking forward to playing in Chennai and this is always a great way to get acclimatized to the hot conditions before playing in Australia. The player field isn't very strong this year but I am not letting my guard down," Paire said on Sunday.
 
 Cilic's   teammate Borna Coric will also be the one to watch out for this time. The last year's finalist who is coming back from an injury will be looking to sharpen his weapons in Chennai so that he can be battle-ready before Australia.
 
 
 
 
 The Indian hopes in singles will centre around Ramkumar Ramanathan, Saketh Myneni and Yuki Bhambri. Bhambri, who missed most of the last season with an injury, qualified for the main draw on Sunday. He is targeting   as his launch pad for the comeback and things look bright at the moment.
 
 This is the best opportunity for wild card Ramkumar to stage a comeback after an erratic year in front of his home crowd. Ramkumar will face Bhambri in the first round after the latter got the better of Argentine Nicolas Kicker 6-3, 6-1 in the qualifier.
 
