Mumbai: The National Company Law Tribunal ( ) on Monday reserved orders in the preliminary issue on whether ousted   chairman Cyrus Mistry’s family-held firms are eligible under the companies act to seek relief for acts of alleged oppression and mismanagement against them as minority shareholders of the $103-billion corporate conglomerate. The order will be passed on March 6, said a bench of Prakash Kumar and Nallensenapathy after concluding a hearing on maintainability of a petition filed by the two firms.

 The case was related to Cyrus Investment and Sterling Investment Corporation against Tata Sons,  , other directors and trustees. Mistry, who was also removed as director of Tata Sons on February 6 at a special shareholders’ meeting after failing to get a stay on it from the tribunal and its appellate body in Delhi, is also a respondent.
 
 But claiming that the petitioner is de facto Mistry himself, as the relief pleas are all aimed at his reinstatement as director, A M Singhvi, counsel for Tata Sons, said the case should be thrown out as, legally, the mandatory eligibility criteria is not met. Members, who can allege oppression and mismanagement, are only those who have one-tenth the equity capital shareholding, Singhvi argued. 
 
 The arguments were on interpretation of the eligibility criterion under section 244 of the companies act, which Singhvi, S Sarkar, Mohan Parasaran and S N Mukherjee — all appearing for the Tata camp — said decides which members or shareholders can approach the tribunal for relief against oppression and mismanagement. 
 
 During the daylong hearing, Singhvi said the section deals with “issued share capital” and “both equity and preference are part of issued share capital” and, hence, not a separate class each as sought to be interpreted “mischievously” by the Mistry team. Contending that the Mistry plea of “separate class of shareholders” would lead to rewriting the law, he argued that a plain literal meaning must be given to the law when there is no ambiguity and he stressed that there was none.
 
 Mistry firms’ counsel C A Sundaram and Mistry’s counsel Janak Dwarkadas, however, argued that the 2013 companies act now provides legal remedy against a company’s oppressive actions to separate classes of shareholders, the one-tenth eligibility requirement has to be read and applied separately to equity and preference shareholders. In this case, they said, the two firms were equity shareholders who, with 18%, have more than the requisite shareholding. 
 
 But Tata Sons said it only amounted to 2.17 % since preference shares must be factored in and, hence, rendered them ineligible. Dwarkadas said, “The issue is whether to take literal meaning for issued share capital or to say that it could not have been intended by the legislature that equity shareholders should be deprived from approaching court for remedy against oppression just because of a wider meaning of including both equity and preference shareholders?”
 
 “Are we going to give an interpretation, which strains the provision to make sections 241 and 242 of companies act, which provide for remedy against oppressive and mismanagement otiose in companies where preference share capital comprises exceeds equity?” he asked.
 
 
