VASCO: In order to improve the cleanliness standands at   at Dabolim,   (AAI) has awarded a new mechanized environmental support services (MESS) contract to a new agency, which will begin operations from April 1.

 Director of   B C H Negi said the agency for the new MESS contract has been selected based on quality and cost-based analysis, in which 80% weightage has been given to technical capability and 20% weightage is given to financial capability of agencies, who participated in the tender bid. The new agency is presently working at big airports in India such as Chennai and Hyderabad. Both manpower and machinery will increase. There is provision of manpower for each washroom. Also, The agency will use cleaning material of well-known brands only.
 
 In order to address maintenance issues related to the carpeted floor in the security hold area, AAI has initiated work to replace the carpet with vitrified tiles. This work, which began a week ago and will be completed by April 2017, is being taken up in a phased manner to ensure that passenger movement is not disturbed. 
 
 The washroom facilities, outside the arrival terminal at the airport by AAI and  , will be made operational soon. These new washroom facility was planned around six months ago as the existing facilities were not able to cater to the increased load of visitors and passengers. 
 
 Negi said that, in order to ensure world class retail and food and beverage (F & B) facilities at the Goa airport, AAI has floated a request for qualification (RFQ) for selecting vendors, who will participate in the request for proposal (RFP), which will be published in due course.
 
 AAI will select a single vendor - master concessionaire- retail service, that will own all retail outlets at airport. Similarly, for F&B, a single vendor will be selected. The technical and financial criteria will ensure that only those agencies owning international and domestic brands will be able to participate in the RFQ/RFP. 
 
 Before the selection of vendors, AAI has already begun work to create additional spaces at the terminal, that can be used for retail and F&B facilities.
 
 
