From crèches at workplaces, more play grounds, more green spaces and cleaner air _ here’s what Hyderabadi moms have on their wish list this Mother’s Day.

  
 I wish for equal opportunities for working mothers in workplaces. Employers must acknowledge that working mothers are very committed, extremely focused and are assets to any organisation. As a working mother and an employer, I see working mothers as ambitious women who want to provide for their family. 
 Having children or managing a home and family has absolutely no detrimental effect on one's career and I wish that this is acknowledged and accepted in Indian work culture. Mothers in the workplace must not be sidelined when it comes to entrusting with greater responsibilities. They must also be paid on par with their male counterparts and must be given equal opportunities.
 —  , entrepreneur 
 
 
 
 I really feel we should have feeding spaces for new mothers. For instance, recently we wanted to go for a movie, but I couldn’t go as I’ve to feed my baby in every two hours and that's not possible in theatres. Whenever I’ve to go out, I feed him before leaving and make sure I’m back after two hours to feed him again. It’s little difficult you know. It would be great to have feeding spaces in public places.
 —  , homemaker
 
 
 Being a mother, my wish is to raise my daughter to be a happy child who would experience life to its fullest and not end up stressed about anything. I want her to be content with what she has. 
 Initially, even I had problems about the dearth of options for outdoor activities for children in Hyderabad. Our children spend way too much time indoors, instead we should take them out. I wish Hyderabad had more options for outdoor activities for kids and mommy clubs where they do fun activities with mothers and their children. 
 —  , actress
 
 
 
 With the market currently flooded with a plethora of processed and junk food options, one has to make a conscious choice to eat healthy. Given our busy lifestyles it’s much easier to reach for those quick-meals straight out of a packet, but I make sure my kids eat home-cooked nutritious meals, with minimal processed foods. It takes a bit of extra time and effort but it’s worth doing in the larger scheme of things. Also as parents, it’s our responsibility to lead by example - when your children see you reach for a fruit or nuts instead of a pack of chips, they’ll do the same. Inculcating these healthy food habits at an early age makes them responsible and mindful eaters for life. 
 —  , food blogger
 
 
 
 Education doesn’t differentiate with genders and I wish every child should have access to it. I wish for a society where children are given the freedom to achieve or pursue their chosen field. Mothers of daughters should give their children the courage to lead their life with dignity and inculcate the ideology of equality. A balanced society will only be possible if children are educated properly.
 —  , dancer
 
 
 
 My elder daughter was pursuing BTech when I was pregnant with Avighna 3 years ago. I was prepared. I took my maternity leave three days before I went into labour. I resumed my job four and a half months later. Absence of day-care at the workplace was a major challenge. Concentrating on work with an infant at home can be very stressful forcing women to choose between work and children. Our offices need to adapt to the changing times. Introducing crèches in workplace in the country is a must. These in-office childcare facilities will go a long way in benefiting women employees and in the process will facilitate better productivity for the organisation.
 — My elder daughter was pursuing BTech when I was pregnant with Avighna 3 years ago. I was prepared. I took my maternity leave three days before I went into labour. I resumed my job four and a half months later. Absence of day-care at the workplace was a major challenge. Concentrating on work with an infant at home can be very stressful forcing women to choose between work and children. Our offices need to adapt to the changing times. Introducing crèches in workplace in the country is a must. These in-office childcare facilities will go a long way in benefiting women employees and in the process will facilitate better productivity for the organisation.
 —  , banker
 
