Mumbai: The festival of Navratra will come to a peak over ashtami and navami, on Thursday and Friday. Fire sacrifice (hom havan) will be performed at temples, including Mahalaxmi and Mumbadevi. The   for garba festivities has also been extended to midnight on these two days, prompting more people to head out since these are the last two days of the festival.

 One of the finest performers of the traditional Mataji ka garba, Musa Paik, whose event is under way at Sai Baba Nagar in Borivli, expects a full house. “I have rehearsed a list of classic devotional songs which the audience loves.” 
 
 Milind Ruparel, organizer of the   garba in Borivli, says, “We have had a super season so far with 30,000 visitors over the weekend and 25,000 on weekdays. On Thursday and Friday, we are extending the dance area to accommodate more people.” The team of the upcoming films ‘Judwaa 2’, ‘Papa Tame Nai Samjhaye’ and ‘Ranchi Diaries’ had arrived to promote their films here, driving excitement among visitors.
 
 Singer Parthiv Gohil is performing at Nesco in Goregaon. A new enclosure has been built on the open ground so noise restrictions do not apply. Parthiv says, “We have had special performances from Marathi dhol to Punjabi folk, apart from Gujarati and Hindi film songs. On ashtami and navami, we are hosting a special tipanni dance and fusion of authentic garba and modern music.” Soma Roy, manager corporate sales at Nesco Events, says, “The extended timings has prompted a surge in inquiries for passes.”
 
 Silent garba has become the fad of this season. In Malad, Monesh Soni’s Rajmahal Banquets has families dancing until 2am. “The numbers are expected to increase until October 1 because our garba extends a day beyond Dusshera. The 10pm deadline does not affect us since our event is indoors, and we provide headphones,” Soni says.
 
 Dahisar’s GSB Sabha plans a large Deepotsav where 10,000 oil lamps will be lit on Thursday evening in honour of the Kali avatar. This mandal has been remodelling its deity every day to resemble goddesses from Mysore, MP, Goa and Kolhapur. The Navratra havan at Mumbadevi temple will last from 10.20am to 5pm on Friday, says temple manager Hemant Jadhav.
 
