NEW DELHI: In the unsavoury Nicolai Adam-Under 17 imbroglio, a favourable turn seems to have landed at the  's doorstep and typically, the federation is turning a blind eye. On the day the federation announced that they were amicably parting ways with Adam after a protracted stalemate, TOI has reliably learnt that the CV of   ­ an Under 17 World Cup winning coach ­ is lying with the federation but the bosses seemed disinclined to take up the 79-year-old German coach's application seriously.

 The much-travelled Pfister is considered among the foremost coaches out of Germany (of which   too was a latter generation product) who earned most of his stripes training nations in Africa. He famously guided Ghana to the 1991 Under-17 World Cup title with players like  ,   and   in the ranks, and continues to be much in demand in the continent.
 
 In a career spanning over five decades, he coached Ivory Coast, Senegal and Saudi Arabia and in 2006 also oversaw Togo's first-ever qualification to the World Cup.
 
 Closer home, Pfister was the coach of Bangladesh during the 1995 and 1997 South Asian Football Federation championships in Colombo and Kathmandu, respectively. The   could do well in hiring the services of an experienced and proven coach like Pfister, primarily since a high-profile appointment will help deflect the attention from the boys.
 
 Sources indicate that Pfister is quite keen to take up the challenge at such a short notice and is confident he can guide the team past the first hurdle ­ the group stages, which would be considered an achievement for the host team after the low morale following the controversy and their training in disarray.
 
 Still, the AIFF is apparently rigid on hiring a yo unger coach, ostensibly in keeping with their plans of a modern, youth-oriented coach.
 
 The federation has been tight-lipped about the applications that it has been considering, only revealing that they would announce a new coach in 10 days' time.
 
 Yet, with them having dragged the Nicolai Adam saga beyond its time, it would be a further muddle-up of affairs if they passed up an opportunity like Pfister knocking at their door.
 
 
