If only the strength of love that people feel when it is reciprocated could be as intense and obsessive as the love we feel when it is not, then marriages would be truly made in heaven,” wrote Ben Elton in his book 
 .   is intense and all-consuming and accepting it and letting go is the most difficult thing one has ever had to do. And so, many of us, silently accept our fate, and prepare ourselves for a lifetime of not having our love reciprocated. 

 There are two things that keep us hooked to unrequited love – the  , and hope. 
 
 I remember telling my mother once that the very thought of my first boyfriend makes me sad even now, seven years and many more relationships, later. I remember saying that I don’t think I ever stopped loving him. However, what she said in response put things in perspective, and I could finally begin to let go... She said, “It’s not him. It’s the pain of rejection.” 
 
 It was true. The reason his thought saddened me was not because I pined for him but the fact that my feelings weren’t acknowledged.
 
 Jean Saffer, a psychotherapist and author of 
 , a book about love and loss, writes, “It was so much about not being able to give up because it felt like a failure, or like I was unlovable or had no power. The power you are seeking is to make that person love you, to get the response you need. The moment when you really take in that it’s not possible to do that is the moment you are liberated.” 
 
 This is true even when love is unrequited in a relationship, which is to say, when our partner does not respond to us, or connect with us the way we would like for them to. We keep trying because we can’t come to terms with the fact that maybe our partner is not capable of, or doesn’t want to love us the way we’d like to be loved. 
 
 We keep hoping that if we try harder, do more, or less, whatever the situation requires, maybe there will be some reciprocation. Hope is a good thing, but not when it comes to unrequited love. Because the reality is that more often than not, such love is not real. But, we hold on to the hope that one day, it will, and that’s what keeps us hooked. That’s what makes us sad.
 
 
 
 
 
 
