KOCHI:   in association with the police is set to install surveillance cameras in Fort Kochi for the safety of visiting tourists.

 Keltron, which has been entrusted with the work, will install 22 cameras including 18 fixed cameras and four PTZ Domes to keep a tab on   in one sq km area in Fort Kochi. Three fixed cameras each will come up at Aspin Wall Junction, Jankar Jetty, Fort Kochi corporation office Junction and opposite SBI Parking Area. Chariot junction will have four cameras each and the children's park area will have two. The   will come up at  , north, central and south beach areas.
 
 Police and Keltron officials had conducted an inspection in January to identify the areas following a recommendation by the district collector. PTZ dome cameras have 360 degree rotation capacity to capture images of people in 400m radius du ring day time, while fixed cameras can capture images at a distance of 70m to 100m. A team of police officials will monitor the cameras 24x7 and the control room will set up in the compound of Fort Kochi police station.
 
 “We had held a meeting and sent a proposal to the government. Installing cameras in public place is for the safety of people and we will gradually extend the initiative to other parts,“ said district collector Mohammed Y Safirulla.
 
 “The image capturing ca pacity of cameras will vary in the night depending on the light in the area. PTZ Dome cameras are installed in areas where people gather in large numbers. We had already installed similar surveillance cameras in five other tourist destinations in the state,“ said S P Gopakumar, project manager of Keltron.Ten cameras each were installed at Ponmudi, Munnar, Thekkadi, Kumarakom and Vythiri in Pookode. A PTZ Dome costs around Rs 1.25 lakhs while the fixed one costs only Rs 35,000.
 
 During the inspection, police had identified total 16 locations including Kunnumpuram junction in Fort Kochi to install cameras.Fort Kochi police had registered three cases in 2016 against local people for misbehaving with foreign tourists.
 
 “Fort Kochi sees a footfall of 5,000-10,000 tourists including foreigners on each holiday in tourism season. The speciality of Fort Kochi is that there numerous byroads and if anything happens, we need to rescue the victim soon. The cameras will also help to identify accused at the earliest,“ said Rajkumar P, circle inspector, Fort Kochi.
 
 Recently, in Kunnumpuram, an intoxicated man with speech-impairment had tried to grope a foreign woman when she was walking along the roadside.
 
