CHANDIGARH: The   (rents) has failed to collect  , an annual   report has pointed out. The report has said the department failed to recover licence fees of chambers allocated to advocates in Sector 17.

 The UT administration had constructed 100 chambers on the premises of the district court in Sector 17. They were allotted to advocates in 1986 with condition that the licence fee\rent will be payable in advance by 10th of each calendar month in cash or draft.
 
 During scrutiny of records, it was found that the court complex was shifted to Sector 43 from Sector 17. However, out of 100 allottees, only eight advocates cleared their dues. The remaining owe the department around Rs 60 lakh. The report stated that non-recovery of dues shows the lack of efforts on part of the department to recover outstanding amount.
 
 On being pointed out, the department stated that the matter has been taken up with the district and sessions judge. The report termed the reply as non-tenable and directed the department to put in vigorous efforts to recover the outstanding dues.
 
 The report also pointed out non-recovery of licence fee of around Rs 15 lakh from 132 government employees. As per the   Allotment Rules 1966, the employees who are allotted government accommodation are liable to charges for use and occupation of residence as per applicable rates of licence fee. The audit report also pointed out non-payment of service tax and   by the department of Rs 10 lakh.
 
 The report highlighted discrepancies in the maintenance of cash book. Against the laid down norms, the cash books were not closed and checked by senior official. In gross violation of the rules, over writing was done on many entries which were not attested. Not only that, a large number of entries were not made in order of occurrence and on date they actually took place. The report also highlighted improper maintenance and non-verification of totalling of receipt cash book.
 
 Terming the irregularities as glaring, RK Garg, a social activist, said the non-recovery of dues has become a norms in almost all the departments of the administration, which results in loss to the exchequer. “Steps need to be taken to ensure that such irregularities are not committed again,” said Garg.
 
 
