BHOPAL: A Dalit girl was dragged out of her house and molested on a busy street by four men in an   locality on Wednesday. Although it's a busy area, no one came forward to help. The molesters beat up the girl's father and ransacked the house when he tried to save her. 

 And underscoring just how unsafe the city may be getting for women, a 16-year-old was sexually harassed on the other end of the city, in Bilkheria.
 
 Chhola Mandir police said that a 21-year-old was sitting in an outer room of her house when a local youth named Kartik, who was stalking her for some time, allegedly started sexually harassing her. When the girl, who recently finished her graduation, resisted, he got violent and tried to drag her out of the house, says the complaint. Hearing her screams, her father came running and tried to save her. This angered the accused, who called three others - his brother Kapil and friends Ravi and Sunny - and beat up the father. He suffered injuries to his face and hands. The four then barged into the house, damaged the gate and grilles, and created a ruckus. The girl was allegedly dragged out and groped after which the four left, threatening the family with dire consequences if they went to police.
 
 However, the family decided to fight back and approached police. Police have registered a case. 
 
 She has told investigators that the accused had harassed her earlier, too, but she ignored it because she "did not want to create a scene".
 
 Police have named Kartik as the prime accused. None of them has been arrested yet though more than 24 hours have passed. Since the complainant is a Dalit, the case has been transferred to AJK police, said a Chhola Mandir officer. In the other shocker, a youth sexually harassed a teenaged girl in Bilkheria on Tuesday morning. 
 
 The accused intercepted the 16-year-old, who tried to force himself on her, claiming that he loved her. But when she resisted, he molested her, threatened her and fled. The teenager went to police on Wednesday evening after which the suspect, Rakesh, was nabbed. 
 
 
