BENGALURU: BJP head honchos have issued a diktat to party cadres in Karnataka — the presidents of nearly 52,000 booth-level committees should hoist the party’s flag atop their houses on April 6. 

 This bottom-up approach could be dismissed by many as trivia. But it’s the first micro-management strategy being put in place by the BJP in the run up to the 2018 assembly polls. While April 6 marks the BJP’s Foundation Day, the decree to hoist the party flag aims at striking an emotional chord with activists or karyakartas at the polling booth-level and pumping up their energy levels. In fact, it is this micro-management approach of reaching out to the booth-level activists (lowest rung of party hierarchy) which helped BJP secure a landslide victory in   recently.
 
 BJP state general secretary C T Ravi told TOI: “Each booth-level committee comprises 10 members from the locality and is headed by a president. On April 6, committee members and other BJP supporters will go to the booth president’s house and hoist the flag. This will be a confidence-booster for them”. 
 
 BJP sources said the flag-hoisting exercise will be the beginning of ground-level political activity and it will gain momentum in the months to come. “If the BJP has to achieve the goal of a Congress-mukt (Congress-free) country, Karnataka is vital. To get Karnataka into its fold, party leaders have to go back to the most important person: the karyakarta. This can done through the booth committee members,” sources added.
 
 In fact, both Prime Minister   and BJP national president   have given importance to the humble karyakarta and have attributed the party’s poll victories to the workers. Shikaripura MLA B S Y   said: “Booth committee presidents and members are the game-changers; their hard work and popularity will help the party galvanize more public support. These booth committees fuel the party’s poll strategies.” 
 
 Speeches on party’s growth to mark day
 
 Ravi said booth committee presidents have been instructed to deliver speeches on April 6 on the BJP’s growth, its purpose and principles. “The booth president and members will explain to people that it’s not a caste-based party and values nationalism instead. The party is not run by a few select owners; it is owned by cadres. They will explain how ordinary party workers have gone on to become chief ministers and will highlight the achievments of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Ravi added. 
 
 Party leaders at the local level have been told to take up service-oriented activities that culminate in visible results. “It could be providing textbooks to students in the locality or planting saplings or getting a well cleaned. The leaders have to show that they are committed and have to take everyone into confidence,” Ravi said. 
 
