JAIPUR: Two cases of external examiners demanding bribes from school principals for awarding higher marks to students have emerged in two days. The examiners are appointed by the   (RBSE).

 The cases relate to awarding marks for practical exams to students in classes X and XII.
 
 Students securing poor marks not only give schools a bad name, but may also result in transfer of teachers and withholding of perks as the state government had recently linked teachers' appraisals to the performance of students.
 
 Taj Mohammad Rangrez, principal of   in Chittorgarh, submitted evidence against two examiners for demanding Rs 500 per student for awarding marks between 90% and 100% for Class XII geography exam to the district education officer. “Vijay Kumar Perwa of Dausa conducted the practical exam of Class XII geography students along with his assistant Bhaktiyar Singh on February 5. After conducting the exam, he (Perwa) shamelessly asked for Rs 500 per student for awarding 3030 and 2930 for the practical exam. I refused and thought the matter was over,“ Rangrez said. But the examiners didn't stop and Singh called the principal again on February 17. “He told me that 1930 was the highest mark that they would award and some students may not clear the exam. He also gave his account number and asked me to deposit Rs 10,000 if I didn't want to spoil the careers of these 27 students who appeared for the exam,“ said Rangrez. The caller was unaware that Rangrez had recorded the conversation between them.
 
 “I submitted all the evidence to the district education department on the same day and am hopeful that strict action would be taken against culprits,“ he said. Incidentally, Rangrez, a history teacher, had won Rs 1 crore in the seventh season of the `Kaun Banega Crorepati' hosted by Amitabh Bachchan in 2013.
 
 Radhey Shyam Sharma, district education officer of Chittorgarh, has forwarded the complaint to RBSE, Ajmer.“We have clear evidence against the errant examiners,“ said Sharma.
 
 Similarly , another case was reported in Bhilwara on Saturday after the examiner demanded Rs 150 per student for awarding full marks for geography practical exam. Usha Sharma, principal of Government Senior  , said, “I have recorded the conversation with the examiner Ravi Shankar of Dausa. The matter has been reported to the education department.“
 
 Experts feel that this could be the tip of an iceberg. Interestingly , the RBSE has registered an unbelievable 10-fold increase in the number of students scoring 90% and above in Class XII science, commerce and arts streams from 2013 to 2016. In most cases, students who barely received pass marks in the main examination had scored 90% and above in internalspracticals.
 
