NAGPUR: More than 200 youngsters attended a discussion programme organized by  , a   (UN) recognized organization for youngsters, at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines on Sunday. The programme focused on the various global goals set by the UN and consisted of speeches and a panel discussion. 

 Sanjay Arora, CEO, Shells Advertising, Shashikant Chaudhary, president, TiE and Mohommad Zeeshan, co-founder, Climber, a youth mentoring organization, were invited to speak and share their experience with the youth. 
 
 Parikshit Waghela, president, AIESEC, Nagpur chapter, said, “Youth is the future and future is full of hope, faith and commitment. Today, the world is moving very fast and the opinions are mixed and unclear. The youth have to work for development. Currently, we have two exchange students from Egypt and Japan in the city.” 
 
 Taking a turn towards entrepreneurship, Arora in his speech, said, “Doubting is the first step towards learning. Don’t be afraid or think what others might say. Youth should believe in themselves and do what they aspire to.” 
 
 Choudhary added, “Entrepreneurs are developing glamour quotient and undertake start-up venture just to follow the rat race, but you need to follow what you love, be it teaching, cooking, anything.”
 
 “The system of education in our country is in a way limited. It is failing to take the student’s capabilities to their full potential,” said Zeeshan, adding, “Students need to focus more on gaining knowledge than running after fat payment.”
 
 Later a panel discussion and interactive session on sustainable development was held. The panellists were Tarun Shrivastava, scientist, National Informative Centre, Atul Upadhyay, founder,  , and Mohsin Khan, former president, AIESEC. 
 
 Khan, while speaking to TOI said, “AIESEC provides platform to delegates, nationally and internationally, to make a difference in the society and contribute,” adding, “We plan development models for the society and execute them with the help of delegates. Our current projects are Youth Speaker Forum, Bon Voyage etc”
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
