PUNE: The state   will crack the whip on   asking civic poll aspirants for favours in return for votes. The chairmen and secretaries of such societies could face action.

 “The state cooperative department can take action against such societies under the Cooperative Housing Society Act, if audit objections detect that societies sought favours when the code of conduct is in force. Citizens, activists and NGOs must report such instances to the municipal commissioner and the state election commissioner,”  , the state election commissioner, told TOI.
 
 Commissioner of cooperation Chandrakant Dalvi said, “The department will conduct an enquiry following an order from the returning officer, and submit a report. The returning officer will take action against the housing society officials as per the poll code violation rules.”
 
 Housing societies bargaining for favours is a major problem ahead of the elections, admit aspirants and corporators. 
 
 “There is a general perception that slum voters bargain and seek money or favours for votes,” said a former corporator. “In reality, educated and well-off people want favours too. One housing society wanted me to pay its power bill for six months,” he said, adding a few societies even want mercury lamps installed or internal roads laid. 
 
 A sitting corporator from Sahakarnagar said, “Voters from high-income groups and big societies bargain hard. They have the money to get these works done, but during the election cycle, everyone wants freebies.”
 
 “Cases must be filed against offending housing society officials. This is clear violation of election rules, and is not good for a free and fair election,” said Vijay Kumbhar of Surajya Sangharsh Samiti, who wrote a letter to chief minister   and the SEC in this regard. 
 
 “Such societies must remember that a candidate will not pay any attention to their problems if he gets elected, and has no respect for those who sell their votes,” Kumbhar added. 
 
 A housing society chairman said: “The society’s members expect the chairman, secretary and governing body to get the most out of poll aspirants. In fact, many times candidate are society members themselves, so it gets difficult for them to say no. It is a sad fact that educated people are lured by inducements.”
 
 Vivek Velankar, one of the activists who set up the citizens’ forum, Pune Nagrik Sanghatana, which fielded 15 candidates in the 2012 election, said: “All 15 were clean in character and intent. They promised to be honest and work for the city. But a majority of the citizens wanted candidates who can do them favours. So, our candidates lost.” 
 
 He said people will always get the candidates they deserve. “Most of these societies, professionals and middle-class citizens came out on the roads shouting slogans during Anna Hazare’s anti-corruption agitation. In reality, however, people can’t even resist selling their votes,” said Anuja Sawant, a professional. 
 
