NEW DELHI: Things turned from bad to worse for   on Sunday as   workers stayed off work for a third day. Nearly 9,000 MT of garbage has already accumulated in the densely populated area, sparking fears of outbreak of diseases.

 In Shakarpur, Shivpuri and  , people were seen wading through piles of waste strewn all over place. A man was reportedly injured after his bike skid on the garbage.
 
 Even though Delhi government announced a bailout package of Rs 119 crore to EDMC to clear pending dues, relief isn’t in sight as workers refused to call off the stir. “The strike will not be withdrawn. This amount (Rs 119 crore) can pay salaries for only a month. Unless every worker receives two months’ salary, we will continue our agitation,” said Sanjay Gehlot, president,  .
 
 Gehlot added that on previous occasions, the workers had given into promises that were never fulfilled. “We won’t be fooled this time,” he said. On Sunday, private trucks hired by EDMC started removing garbage. However, only 350 MT of waste had been taken care of in an area that generates 2,300 MT daily.
 
 The stretch from Laxmi Nagar to Preet Vihar on Vikas Marg, for example, was littered with garbage. Radhey Shyam Gupta, president of Vikas Marg traders’ association, said: “Vikas Marg is like Rajpath of trans-Yamuna. Eateries are the worst hit because people want to avoid this stench.” After TOI highlighted the plight of residents near Radhu Palace, private trucks were roped in to clear some part of the road. The condition of inner colony lanes, however, continues to get worse. Almost the entire road near the Shakarpur main market was covered with waste with people being forced to walk over it.
 
 Ravinder Kumar, a shopkeeper, said: “There is no space for cars. There are huge jams on the stretch in the evenings. Yesterday’s rain made it even worse.” 
 
 In Geeta Colony, people complained that they were forced to keep their windows and doors closed to keep the stench out. Manish Oscar, a resident, said: “It’s the same story every few months. Don’t the civic body officials have any shame?”
 
