KANNUR: The Kerala human rights commission (KHRC) has suo motu registered a case in connection with the incident in which a girl student was asked to remove her top innerwear before attending the national eligibilitycum-entrance test (NEET) conducted by the central board of secondary education (CBSE) on Sunday .The panel has also sought a report from the CBSE regional director and   district police chief in this regard.

 KHRC acting chairperson P Mohana Das said prima facie it was a case of human rights violation and a highlevel probe was required.
 
 “We have also sought a report from  , which has a role in the conduct of the examination.Since this is a national-level examination, the national human rights commission has also been alerted,“ added Das.
 
 The Kerala state women's commission (KSWC) has also initiated a probe into this incident.
 
 “We have asked an officer of the rank of DSP to conduct an inquiry , and appropriate action will be taken based on the report,“ said commission member  .
 
 Meanwhile, T P M Ibrahim Khan, president of  , said that CBSE must investigate the incident.
 
 “The reason why CBSE has such strict rules is to prevent malpractices. But it should not amount to harassing the student. NEET has become a very important examination for students who intend to study medicine and their morale cannot be affected like this before the examination,“ he said. Meanwhile, the victims are planning to approach the CBSE and the KHRC. “We feel humiliated. Such an incident is beyond imagination and we want to make sure that it is not repeated in future,“ said Rajesh Nambiar, a parent whose daughter had to change her pair of jeans because it had metal buttons and pockets.
 
 It was on Sunday that the incident was reported from   at Kovvappuram near Kunhimangalam in Kannur, where the girls were asked to remove anything that had metallic parts because the CBSE guidelines did not permit metal lic items inside the examination halls.
 
 Some girls had to cut short the sleeves of their tops, as the guidelines said only half sleeves would be allowed.
 
 Payyannur MP P  , meanwhile, termed this as a barbaric act and said she would take up this issue with the authorities.
 
 Former KPCC president V M Sudheeran, who termed this as a shameful incident, condemned it in a Facebook post and said the central and state governments should take stringent measures against those who humiliated the girls in such a deplorable manner.
 
