MEERUT: As the world observes   Day on March 24, Meerut district reported a rise of 162 cases from 2015 to 2016 as per the data collated by the district tuberculosis office. It should be noted that the number of tuberculosis cases have been on the rise for two consecutive years now. While from 2014 to 2015, cases increased by 234, from 2015 to 2016, cases increased by 162. 

 To spread more awareness about the deadly disease, the administration already has undertaken ‘Project Chetna’, going from one district to another educating people on the symptoms and causes of the disease.
 
 This year the slogan for World Tuberculosis Day is “Unite to end TB, leave no one behind”. Speaking to TOI, Dr. M.S. Faujdar, district tuberculosis officer, said, “It is true that it is difficult to control the spread of tuberculosis because it is an air-borne disease and spreads very quickly. However, the rise in the number of cases of TB means that people are aware about the disease now and are hence getting themselves checked. Since TB was declared a notified disease, we need people to come out and tell us about their case so that its easier for us to eradicate it.” 
 
 Tuberculosis is of two types – pulmonary tuberculosis, which happens in the lungs and leads to 80% of the cases and extra pulmonary tuberculosis, which leads to the formation of cysts in different parts of the body and contributes to 20% of the cases of the disease.
 
 “This year, we ensured that TB cases are reported from rural areas by anganwadi workers and ASHAs. Also, last year PL Sharma district hospital got the very first CB-NAAT (Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test) machine for the test of Multi Drug Resistant (MDR) tuberculosis. This helped in identifying the patients with MDR quickly as reports could be sought in two hours unlike a month as it used to happen earlier,” said Dr. Faujdar. The district has a total of 18 TB units, 41 microscopic centres and 673 DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course) centres for detection of the disease and the medicines to cure TB are available at all primary health centres. In 2016, 33,065 patients were suspected cases of TB out of which 6,698 got confirmed after tests.
 
