CHARMINAR: At a time when the south zone police is busy trumpeting the arrest of 27 illegal financiers in  , civil society members claim that the drive on Friday only scratched the surface of the scam.

 Police officials, headed by south zone deputy commissioner of police (DCP) V Satyanarayana, have said the value of the properties mortgaged with the apprehended financiers could be around Rs 20 crore. Calling the arrested lenders 'small fish,' Ali Asghar, founder member,   of the Marginalised (ASEEM), said, “It is an age-old tradition. There are over 10,000 such financiers functioning in the area.Their business continues to flourish as the state government has done precious little to provide people with a financial institution. For many people of this area, it is easier get a handloan from a lender than a bank.“
 
 The minimum rate of interest is 15% and this could go up to 50-100%, claimed Amjedullah Khan, spokesperson, Majlis Bachao Tahreek.
 
 Speaking about the arrests on Friday, Satyanarayana said, “The lenders began charging higher interest rates post-demonetisation. They used to collect interest either on a daily or weekly basis. People who failed to pay their interest either lost their property, put up as collateral, or had to pay thrice the interest. In some cases, victims' homes were broken into and their movable assets seized.“ He added that only victims with small loans were willing to lodge a police complaint. Calling it a governmental failure, activists on Sunday said that the   (MFC) had failed in its duties because of which lenders have been able to step in. “Deputy chief minister   had earlier announced that the state government would set up a state cooperative bank in Old City to curb the illegal money lending business, but that has not happened,“ said Khan. He also alleged that the MFC has been extremely temperamental in handing out loans because of which people were not willing to approach it for money. One victim, Sahera, a resident of  , had taken a loan from a lender after her father's electrical appliance store was gutted in a fire a few years ago. “We had taken a loan of `5 lakh from a lender. But eventually, we ended up paying him close to Rs 15 lakh,“ she said.
 
 Unable to bear the torment, the family reportedly tried committing suicide.
 
 Officials from the police department said that there could be thousands of such cases in the area, but not many victims were willing to lodge a formal complaint fearing loss of property or life.
 
