IMPHAL/KOLKATA: A political development in   has muddied the waters in Bengal like never before. It is all about lone Trinamool MLA T Robindro Singh throwing his weight behind BJP’s Nongthombam Biren Singh over forming the government in a voice vote.

 The development came handy to Left parties agitating in front of CBI’s Salt Lake CGO complex office on Monday to buttress their pet ‘Modi bhai-Didi bhai symbiotic relationship’ claim. Trinamool mandarins opposed the view on the ground that BJP could form the government without the party MLA’s support. While CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra derided Trinamool’s stance as an example of “match fixing” that might cast a shadow on the Narada probe, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said: “Trinamool and BJP have been playing a complementary role despite the battle of words.” 
 
 BJP has 21 MLAs in the 60-member House. Four MLAs of Naga People’s Front had lent their support to BJP, which takes the tally to 25. Another four MLAs of National People’s Party supported BJP, pushing the tally to 29. The Biren government also took the lone MLA from   and Independent MLA Asab Uddin, taking the tally to 31 in a 60-member House. Support from the lone Trinamool MLA only came as a bonus to the BJP-led formation that already crossed the halfway mark without Trinamool.
 
 While Trinamool vice-president Mukul Roy distanced himself from the lone MLA, Robindro Singh hinted his action was in consultation with party bosses. “I neither violated the party order nor did anything against its interests I have done whatev-er I was asked to do,” he said.
 
 Roy, however, denied passing any such directive. “On the contrary, we asked him to get in touch with Congress. After the elections, we said   is in a position to form a government, and if need be, we would extend support. But Congress coul-dn’t get the numbers. Singh without consulting us went to meet BJP leaders and accompanied them to Raj Bhavan,” Roy said. Asked if the party would act against the self-styled MLA, Roy said: We can take disciplinary steps against him any time but he now faces a life threat.”
 
 Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien blamed Congress for not being able to cobble up the numbers. “Initially, Congress with a total 29 MLAs was much ahead of BJP. Robindro Singh is a lone Trinamool MLA and doesn’t come under the anti-defection law. BJP reached the halfway mark without him. The talk of a tacit understanding between Trinamool and BJP is bunkum,” he said.
 
 
