MYSURU: The environmentalists who were protesting against desilting at Kukkarahalli  , have succeeded in their efforts as the  , who conducted an inspection on Wednesday, has suspended the desilting work.

 Meanwhile, Randeep also called the Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority (KLCDA) CEO G Vidya Sagar over phone and requested him to send two technical experts to study the lake and give their opinion regarding lake development.
 
 “The experts are expected to visit lake within a week and give their opinion. Later, we can discuss and take a decision on the development activities,” he said.
 
 The inspection was conducted after environmentalists and morning walkers held dharna at the DC office protesting against desilting at the lake. DC Randeep along with MLA Vasu, conducted an inspection at the lake area in the morning.
 
 During the inspection, environmentalists alleged that sewage water from Paduvarahalli, Gokulum, Jayalakshmipuram, Ontikoppal and surrounding areas are entering the water body leading to accumulation of high-level of nitrate and phosphates, causing danger to aquatic birds and other species. The varsity is digging more than required which will destroy the eco-system and dry out water in the lake.
 
 They also argued that around 178 species of birds that used to flock at the lake, has now reduced to just 62 species due to water contamination. They said, “The plan to develop the lake as a tourists’ spot should be dropped. We want the lake should be protected from any civic constructions. The lake should be improved for birds and not for the people. We can go for morning walks elsewhere in the city,” said environmentalist and morning walkers to DC Randeep.
 
 Kukkarahalli Lake Protection Committee convener KM Jayaramaiah explained DC Randeep that two mld of water from   is entering the lake, supporting its survival and how the Poornaiah canal, the main feeder canal has been encroached.
 
 MLA Vasu said that the lake once used to supply water to sandalwood factory and coconut plantation in Saraswathipuram area. But new layouts, including by Muda surrounding the lake, encroachments and the drain water has damaged the lake. “There is lot of politics involved in the degradation of Kukkarahalli Lake which I cannot reveal. If I speak the truth, they will bulldoze me and I may lose my MLA position. MCC is the main culprit for sewage water released to lake,” he said.
 
 Varsity not consulted experts
 
 After hearing suggestions from environmentalists, DC Randeep first said that the primary work should be to protect the lake and not develop it as a tourist centre. “Personally, I am against developing Kukkarahalli Lake as a tourist spot. My concern is to save the lake,” he said.
 
 He questioned University of Mysore’s executive engineer H Kishore Chandra on why the varsity failed to take lake experts opinion before taking up desilting work at the lake. How can you venture into an eco-system without consulting lake experts?
 
 “We have to protect the eco-system and the lake with minimum damage to the system. We have to bring more water inflow to the lake. The lake experts will suggest on what extent the desilting can be done. The desilting near the west gate will be stopped and a slope will be made near the east gate using JCB. Further, the work will be taken only after consultation with lake experts,” Randeep said. 
 
 UoM violates law
 
 DC Randeep inspection said that if the law is strictly imposed, then the university authorities will be in trouble for the construction activities taken up inside the lake area.
 
 Randeep told University of Mysore’s executive engineer H Kishore Chandra that the reptile park, the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre building constructed inside the lake area, the pump house and other civil works taken up, clearly violates the Wetlands Conservation and Management Rules under the Environment Protection Act and   order. “You (UoM) will be in serious trouble as no civic work should be held within 150 m from lake as per the act,” he said.
 
