HYDERABAD: It has been more than a year since the prime accused in the infamous Emaar scam -Koneru  , MGF firm chief   and   officer BP Acharya -secured a stay order from the   on the proceedings against them before a CBI court in Hyderabad. The trial then came to a grinding halt with hardly any developments throughout the year.
While some got an exemption from physically appearing before the trial court, some got it for a limited period.In fact, the order passed for Shravan Gupta shows that the proceedings were stayed `until further orders'. Some were luckier because they were even permitted to go abroad to conduct their business operations.
 
 When asked as to what is the CBI doing to enable the trial court to complete the trial in the case the starting point of which was an FIR in 2011, senior CBI officials told TOI that they filed counters in all the quash petitions filed by the accused in high court and have been urging the court to finally adjudicate them. All the prime accused have been urging the high court to quash the case against them and sought some interim relief like a stay on the proceedings before the trial court. Some sought exemption from the need to physically appear before the court every time it is heard. But a bird's eye view of the affairs shows that things are moving at a snail's pace even six years after the scam was unearthed.
 
 Now with new developments like the name of Pradeep, Koneru Rajendra Prasad's son, surfacing in another case where attempts to influence the then CBI chief to bail out Rajendra Prasad and another accused   has come to the fore, the attention is slowly shifting towards finding out the status of the Emaar case at the trial court. A look at the state of affa irs in this regard paints a bleak picture as nothing was done for the last one year primarily on account of the stay proceedings in respect of some of the accused. Legal sources monitoring the case from the beginning told TOI that the accused have been playing hide and seek with the court. They were arguing their discharge petitions before the trial court on one hand, and on the other hand, they were urging the high court to quash the case against them. “Someone must bring to the notice of the judicial authorities that some of these accused had even completed their arguments in their discharge petitions and then, without waiting for the outcome, approached the high court asking it to quash the case against them,“ the sources added.
 
