GURUGRAM: Arvind Bharadwaj bought an   space in  , a commercial project in Sector 50, in 2010. However, he has not yet been able to rent out the office space as the building has no common toilet on any of the floors. He was in for a shock when he came to know from another buyer, Yash Handa, that the developer had sold the common   as office space.

 Handa found through an RTI query that multiple buyers in project were handed over common toilet as office space by the developer, Sana Realtors. Bharadwaj and Handa have now brought together all affected buyers in the project and approached Gurugram police to trace 23   toilets in the building.
 
 According to Handa, the developer has cheated buyers by overselling in the project. “I got a copy of the original building plan through an RTI query to the department of town and country planning (DTCP), which shows that Silverton Towers has three common toilets on each floor, whereas in reality there is only one common toilet in the entire building. The remaining toilets have been sold as office space,” he told TOI.
 
 “At the time of buying the office space, the developer has assured us to construct common toilets on each floor. We have lodged a complaint at Sector 50 police station. We want the police to find out the remaining 23 toilets at the earliest,” said Bharadwaj, who has an office space on the third floor of the building.
 
 It may be mentioned here that the buyers had earlier this year filed a complaint at CM Window against the developer. And a preliminary probe by district town planner (enforcement) found the allegations to be true, following which the DTCP issued a notice to the developer in February this year.
 
 “Prima facie it indicts that the contention of the complaint regarding selling of common toilets was found true,” said the district town planner in his report sent to the head office. Senior officials of DTCP said they have issued a showcause notice to the developer. “The realtor was also asked to submit relevant documents in support of his contention, if any,” said an official.
 
 However, some buyers say the DTCP is yet to take some concrete action against the developer.
 
 “While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is talking about Swachh Bharat and construction of toilets, here in Gurgaon, a developer sold toilets as office space and no action is being taken against him. Despite several complaints to different authorities and notice issued by the DTCP, no action has been taken against the developer till date,” said Sil Chachal, another buyer.
 
 When contacted, Pankaj Gambhir of Sana Realtors claimed to have provided all the amenities, including toilets, in the commercial project. “But I have no idea about the exact number of toilets as per the approved building plan. We completed the building several years back and I have not visited it for long,” he said.
 
 The investigating officer at Sector 50 police station confirmed that he had received the complaint about missing toilets. “We will investigate the matter,” he said.
 
 
