MUMBAI: A union of Ola and   has called for a strike here on Friday to demand more incentives and “better earnings”. A shortage of cabs is likely if drivers stay off the roads.

 While it is unclear how many driver partners of the   will join the stir, the union which have called the strike claims it will inconvenience “scores of daily passengers”. There was no official statement from the Ola or Uber managements. 
 
 Sources in the aggregator firms claimed most drivers have decided not to join the stir. “We have spoken to several drivers, and they have said they will accept bookings on Friday,” said an official from an aggregator firm.
 
 The union has threatened a dharna at Azad Maidan on March 14, and if their demands are not met, it has threatened an indefinite strike by drivers from March 21. 
 
 Raju Patil of Sangharsh Tourist Chalakh Malak Sangh, which is spearheading the agitation, told TOI: “Drivers have been pushed to the wall, which is why they are agitating. Earnings have fallen by more than 50%, incentives have been reduced and many have EMIs for car loans to be repaid. It is a hand-to-mouth existence for many drivers. With thousands of cabs on the roads, it is difficult to survive and get more business. We are also demanding a cap on the number of cabs attached to Ola or Uber.”
 
 He said two large groups of drivers will take out a morcha to the offices of Uber in Kurla and Ola in Andheri on Friday morning and submit a list of demands of the driver partners. “We will raise our voice and if it falls on deaf ears, we will continue our agitation and strike indefinitely from March 21,” he said, adding that drivers were demanding fares of Rs20/km to ensure good earnings.
 
 Mumbai has more than 30,000 aggregator cabs with an average 2.5 lakh rides daily. Several commuters have switched to Ola and Uber due to convenience of booking, ease of availability of cabs, AC rides at affordable cost and zero refusals. Absence of cabs on roads could hit passengers badly, said Dhruv Panchal, a regular user of the cabs. 
 
 Drivers have opposed the new city taxi scheme, which does not allow them to ply on tourist permits. They will also have to apply for an app-based permit, go in for a PSV (public service vehicle) badge from the government, pay a permit fee of Rs 2.61 lakh, undergo mandatory refresher courses every year and wear uniforms.
 
 A driver said, “We were promised an income of up to Rs 1 lakh a month when we joined. But with incentives dipping and business affected due to addition of cars on roads, we don’t know what to do. Besides, we have huge car loans to repay.” 
 
 The drivers will also petition the state transport department on Friday.
 
