NAGPUR: In a victory for the father, whose young son died more than an year ago after a police   allegedly knocked him down, the Gittikhadan police have booked   Naresh Khamblekar under various sections, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

 Additional public prosecutor PS Tembhare informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay   that the offences were registered under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 304-A against the accused. The constable was allegedly rashly driving the van under which Ajinkya Nasre, a student of Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management (RCOEM), died on July 28.
 
 Khamblekar was also booked under section 199 (punishment for making a false statement), 200 (using as true, such declaration knowing it to be false), 202 (intentional omission to give information of offence by person bound to inform), and 203 (giving false information of an offence committed).
 
 “The necessary offences are registered against the constable by police commissioner. It would, therefore, not be necessary to handover the investigation to any other investigating agency. More so, when the constable is not joined as a party respondent,” a division bench comprising justices Vasanti Naik and Murlidhar Giratkar said before disposing of the plea.
 
 The deceased’s father, Yuvraj Nasre, had approached the judiciary through counsel Rajendra Daga, praying for an inquiry by an independent agency.
 
 The 19-year-old victim, who was pursuing BTech second year, had met with the accident on July 28, 2016, at   near Seminary Hills, when he was going to college on his Hero   Splendor motorcycle. He was allegedly hit by van (MH-31/AG-9425), which was being driven rashly and negligently at excessive speed. The impact was so severe that Ajinkya fell on the road and came under the right front wheel of the vehicle. He succumbed to head injuries before being taken to the hospital.
 
 The cops had first registered the teenager’s death as an accident, on a complaint filed by Khamblekar himself. Instead of helping the victim, the constable had fled away from the spot and lodged a concocted report against the teenager under sections 279 and 338 of IPC for rash and negligent driving. He claimed that Ajinkya’s vehicle first hit a cow, after which he dashed against the divider. However, the post mortem report and photographs showed traces of blood on the front tyre of the offending vehicle. Also, the police van’s paint was stuck on the deceased’s vehicle.
 
 Yuvraj Nasre met all police authorities with requests to reinvestigate the case after the post mortem reports confirmed the teenager received 14 injuries and cause of death was head injury.
 
 
