NEW DELHI: Students of Class XII, who appeared for their English CBSE Board exam on Thursday, said the reading passage was the most time-consuming part of the assessment. They said that a few questions in the writing section were also confusing though the alternative questions were simpler. Overall the teachers and students were satisfied with the difficulty level of the paper, though some said it was a bit too simple. 

 Utkarsh Varshney, student of Angels Public School in Vasundhara Enclave, said he spent close to 1.5 hours on just completing the reading section. “One of the passages was a little tricky. The passage mentioned a journey, but nowhere was it mentioned where that began. Somewhere at the end of the passage it was mentioned that the journey ended at Havelock Islands. Likewise, several questions required answers that had to be implied,” he said.
 
 Mahua Malik, a Class 12 English teacher with Ahlcon International, said her students also found the reading passage a little challenging, but they managed because of practice. “Some of my students mentioned the passage. However, I think the paper was standard and it gave scope for the kids to score high. The literature section was very easy,” she said.
 
 Mansha Gupta, student of Bal Bharti Public School in Mayur Vihar, too found the exam very easy. “I finished my exam almost half an hour before time,” she beamed. However, Firoz Bakht Ahmed, a senior English teacher, Modern School Vasant Vihar, criticised it for being “too easy”. 
 
 “The paper should have been a little more thought-provoking and challenging. Though the value-based questions were on point in terms of relevance, the passages were uninteresting and redundant,” he said. 
 
 However, Malik thought the paper was set at the right difficulty and included questions that require the students to be more aware of their surroundings than just focusing on textbooks. “They had to write an article on Sakshi Malik and how one must make the most of an opportunity irrespective of the obstacles. To score well, they need to know about her and her achievements. It will encourage students to learn through other mediums like novels and newspapers as well,” she said. 
 
 Ahmed also pointed out a grammatical mistake in the literature section. The question — How does Dr Cuss’s encounter with Griffin end in a disaster — had an excess ‘s’ after the apostrophe in reference to Cuss.
 
