MUMBAI: The debacle of the   in the BMC elections was its third consecutive blow after humiliating defeats in the 2014 Lok Sabha and assembly polls. In 2012, the Congress with 52 seats was the second largest party in the BMC after the  . This time it secured just 31 seats and has been relegated to a distant third. It was a similar story across the state, with the Congress wiped out in most civic corporations and zilla parishads.

 Sanjay Nirupam, the party’s Mumbai president, accepted responsibility for its dismal performance in the civic polls. “I have submitted by resignation to the Congress high command. In my opinion, the Congress lost owing to intra-party quarrels, we were defeated by our own people,” Nirupam told TOI.
 
 In an oblique reference to former MP Gurudas Kamat and former chief minister  , Nirupam said the Congress lost badly owing to complete non-cooperation of a section of senior Congress leaders. “Despite specific instructions of the Congress high command, senior leaders did not participate in the campaigning despite the fact that each and every one of their nominees got tickets, that too in areas of their choice. There was a twitter war within the Congress. I am sure the high command will step in immediately and take stringent action against erring Congress leaders otherwise, the party will collapse,” Nirupam said.
 
 Nirupam faced opposition from Kamat, Rane and former minister Naseem Khan, among others, since he took over the reins of the Congress in the city. In fact, these leaders distanced themselves from the election process, blaming Nirupam’s ‘style of functioning’.
 
 On the intervention of the AICC, the trio agreed to campaign, but there was lack of coordination at all levels. Another reason for the party’s debacle is believed to be its acute shortage of resources. While Sena and BJP banners were all over the city, the presence of the Congress was not felt.
 
 The party’s journey downhill began during the Lok Sabha polls, in which only two of its candidates– Ashok Chavan from Nanded and Rajeev Satao from Hingoli—were elected. In the state assembly elections too, the party not only lost power, but only 42 of its candidates were elected.
 
 A senior Congress leader said despite discontent among people over rampant corruption in the BMC, the Congress failed to capitalise on it. “The CM launched a massive campaign against the Sena for corruption in the BMC, but we failed to expose both the BJP and Sena,” he said.
 
 
