NEW DELHI: After what students claimed was yet another attempt to disallow full freedom to express themselves, the annual street-play festival of   College saw just two of the scheduled seven colleges performing on Friday. Alleging that four colleges had been deemed to have “objectionable content" in their plays, the students protested by putting   on their mouths.

 Organisers of Mukhatib, Ramjas College’s decade-old yearly street-play  , had invited seven DU colleges to perform in this year’s event. The students alleged that on March 30, acting college principal PC Tulsian called the organisers to this office and asked them not to go ahead with the festival because of “a warning from intelligence agencies” about the possibility of a riotous situation mirroring the chaos over the February 21 seminar on Culture of   at the college.
 
 The college authorities, a student claimed, “told us that none of the plays should have any mention of the word ‘azaadi’ or be related to nationalism”. The four teacher-conveners of the theatre society scrutinised the synopses of the proposed plays. “It was then decided that four colleges would be asked to back out,” said another student.
 
 Despite several attempts, the teacher-conveners were not available to comment on the issue. On his part, Tulsian said that “maintaining peace on the campus was a primary objective” but insisted “it was the theatre society that took the decision to drop the four colleges”. This was refuted by Ayan Mrinal, member of Shunya, the Ramjas theatre society, who explained, “We were told that the whole show would be cancelled, so we tried to save the event by accepting the conveners’ advice on the four colleges.”
 
 On Friday, actors from all seven colleges turned up at Ramjas and on learning about the restrictions, wore black bands and put black tapes on their mouths “to show we are being silenced”, as one of them put it. Of the three colleges free to perform, Lady Shri Ram College backed out and only Miranda House and Kirori Mal put up plays.
 
 K Vaishnavi, president, LSR Dramatics Society, protested that “anything challenging the authorities is considered objectionable” these days. She said, “We decided we could not perform our play on human trafficking when others were disallowed from doing so.” Astha Narang, president of Ankur, the SGTB Khalsa College group, sarcastically said, “Next time we will perform a circus instead of a play.”
 
