At a time when the state is reeling under severe  , water expert Giriraj Amarnath, recommends effective   techniques, integrated   and use of clean energy in farming to overcome hurdles posed by water scarcity. Also a research group leader in water risks and disasters, at the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka, Amarnath in an interview with TOI says India can build better resilience systems for farmers through improved knowledge and advance warning

 
 
 
 It affects sustainability. Sustainable farming operations preserve and protect watersheds and improve soil health and water quality through climate smart   (CSA) which can tackle three main objectives — sustainably increasing agricultural productivity and income; adapting and building resilience to climate change; and reducing and/or removing greenhouse gas emissions, where possible.
 
 
 
 
 A combination of water management methods including drip irrigation, sprinklers and underground canal system can reduce evaporation and effectively utilise almost 95% water. The energy utilised for such services should be smart and clean. Solar energy also helps farmers tackle irregular grid power supply.
 
 
 
 Farmers in most parts of the country do not know about the water requirement of each crop. Excessive use of water leads to adverse implications for many crops. Information should be shared with farmers through media and community briefing to make best use of resources. If wastage of water is reduced, more area can be cultivated in the country. Farmers will accept if evidence-based solutions are provided. They should be educated on crop-specific water requirement, rainwater harvesting, waste water management, integrated farming systems and inter cropping and alternative cropping to increase farm income. By modifying cropping pattern, dependency on water can be reduced.
 
 
 
 
 Integrated farming is creating a healthy ecosystem by a mix of agriculture,  , animal husbandry and inland fisheries. Animal waste serves as the feed for plants and fish. Waste water from fish ponds is the best manure for plants. It also brings down the cost of farming. Functioning, healthy ecosystems provide a wide range of benefits — water for irrigation and drinking, nutrients for soil and curbing pests and diseases.
 
 
 
 It is deforestation that has upset the hydrological pattern. It reduces water-holding capacity of land and leads to flash floods and soil erosion. Ultimately, it reduces rain and results in drought. Downstream agricultural communities do not realise the value of forest cover. Even if upstream communities preserve forests, they are never the beneficiaries. The biggest challenge in the next forty years will be to feed a growing population while addressing critical threats to the environment. Producing more food will be possible only if ecosystems are protected.
 
 We can’t prevent future extreme events, but we can build better resilience systems for farmers through improved knowledge and advance warning. Agricultural insurance coverage also needs to increase. Above all, we need to plant more trees.
 
 
 
 
 Farmers need to document traditional agricultural practices and historical evidences of climatic condition for future use.
 
 
 
 We should look for more opportunities among rural communities to safeguard their farming rights and resources required for them. Creating an enabling environment for farmers is pertinent. Infrastructure like water availability for agricultural practices, affordable market and facilities for farmers’ families including their education and medical care will reduce migration from rural to urban areas. Urban communities should also acknowledge the importance of farmers. Overall, water conservation from both the communities will safeguard the interest of society.
 
 In a changing situation, how do we handle industrial requirement of water? Should there be a paradigm shift in how we handle industry — it generates employment but farmers’ interests often take a backseat.
 
 A balanced approach is required. There is need for water auditing and accounting system among various water users. Farmers should stop inundating fields with water. When industries use water, they generate higher income compared to farmers. Industries need to reuse water. Benefits have to be shared by both the sectors.
 
 
