Panaji: The combined effect of a well-marked low pressure area over Madhya Pradesh and an offshore trough from the coast of Maharashtra to Kerala has come as a boon for Goa as it yielded the heaviest spell of rain after the monsoon season commenced on June 8. The earlier wettest spell, of 105.4mm, had actually been recorded during the 24 hours ending on the morning of June 1. That, however, is considered as part of pre-monsoon activity. “If the area-weighted average of 102.3mm (recorded on Friday) for the state is taken for the entire season from June 1, then the rainfall during the last 24 hours was the second wettest spell so far,” said M Rahul, a scientist at the meteorological centre. The torrential rainfall, especially in the hinterland, has reduced the growing rainfall deficit from 19% to 13% as on Friday. Four rain gauge centres - Quepem, Sanguem, Canacona and Valpoi - recorded very heavy rainfall while six centres recorded heavy rainfall, as both systems revived the weak monsoon activity. Quepem recorded the highest amount of rainfall of 196.2mm (nearly eight inches) and Sanguem 170.5mm (nearly seven inches) during the last 24 hours till Friday morning. Canacona recorded 165.2mm and Valpoi 132.3mm. Among the centres that recorded heavy rainfall, Margao recorded 115.0mm, Dabolim 87.0mm, Sakhali 78.0mm, Mormugao 71.8mm, Mapusa 68.0mm and Pernem 65.8mm. Old Goa and Ponda recorded rather heavy rainfall of 56.0mm and 36.0mm while Panaji recorded moderate rainfall of 32.1mm.  “The heavy to very heavy rainfall is due to the combined effect of both, low pressure area and offshore trough,” Rahul said speaking to TOI on Friday.  While the offshore trough at mean sea level from the South Maharashtra coast to the North Kerala coast persists, the well-marked low pressure area over West Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood, with an associated upper air cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8km above mean sea level, is likely to concentrate into a depression over north Gujarat during next 48 hours. The meteorological centre is expecting heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state till Sunday. “We are expecting the same conditions for at least two days,” Rahul said.