TRICHY: The new   of Trichy international airport is designed in such a way that it will have less  . Right from its construction, the materials used and   would entirely be eco-friendly. Clearance for the building from the department of environment and forests was obtained a month ago. 

 A six-member committee comprising France-based Project Management Consultant (PMC) M/S EGIS and AAI officials made a site visit before releasing the master plan of the building at the airport here on Friday. PMC has designed over 100 airports globally. 
 
 Stating that the new terminal building is designed to reflect the local art and architecture, joint general manager - architecture AAI Charul Shukla said that the building would be registered with Greha — a non-profit society for research on environmental development, habitat design and architecture — for green building certification.
 
 The existing terminal with 12,000 sq m area handles 470 peak hour traffic. The two-level terminal building will have a buildup area of 65,000 sq m to have peak hour traffic of 2,300 international and 600 for domestic passengers. “With the commissioning of the new terminal building, the airport will be able to manage 3.9 million passengers annually against 1.35 million at present. The peak hour passenger traffic per day would also would go up to 2,900 passengers,” said general manager engineering AAI Sanjeev Jindal. 
 
 This is the right time to take up the project in Trichy which is yet to feel the space crunch as compared to Chennai or other metro airports, he said, adding that handling cargo had become a tedious task in bigger airports like Chennai and Mumbai. 
 
 “The airports in tier 2 cities are seen as potential airports for cargo movement as the metro airports are struggling for space. If airports in the tier-2 cities are developed as an alternative for cargo movement, Trichy can be the next option,” he said.
 
 Trichy has been already doing well in terms of cargo movement with the recent introduction of electronic data interface, added Jindal. The new ATC control tower-cum-technical block will be at a height of 40 metres, which is double the height of the existing building. 
 
