NAGPUR: More than 30 people representing various private colleges of the city,   (PWD) officials and industrialists attended a Short Term Training Programme (STTP) on ‘Application of Building Information Modeling’ organized by Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) at its premises on Monday. 

 VNIT Director   was the chief guest at the programme. 
 
 Co-organizer of the event   said, “Civil engineers today need to stay updated with the advancement of technology and this programme provides an opportunity to learn more about Building Information Modeling (BIM) and its usage for construction. The week long programme also provides the learners a platform to understand the basics as well as the advanced concepts of BIM.”
 
 Madurwar said topics including BIM Tools and Process, BIM for sustainability, scheduling, linked models, future with BIM and many more will be discussed in the programme. 
 
 Praful Baid, CEO, Astral Cad Infromatic Pvt Ltd, said, “Various topics are being covered during the programme, with global players like Institution of Civil Engineers, UK assisting us in our work. The BIM technology is one of the most advanced techniques used extensively in foreign countries but it still has to set up its foothold in our country.”
 
 Rahul Ralegaonkar, organizer of the programme, said, “Our main aim is to spread awareness about BIM and its amazing qualities to reduce time and manpower in designing structures. Most engineers in the country still follow the age old methods which costs them more than required, but with the help of the softwares in the programme, easier techniques will be introduced to them.”
 
 A D Ghare, head of civil department at VNIT said, “One of the major segments of the programme is the presentation and discussion of case studies related to BIM, which will broaden the horizons for the learners of building modeling. Experts from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), National Institute of Technology (NIT) and various top-notch industries will also guide the participants. This programme is self-sponsored, with various stakeholders showing a keen interest in research and development works.”
 
 N S Chaudhari also spoke on the advantages of BIM and how it can help further the development in engineering. “BIM software has the capability of representing both physical and intrinsic properties of an infrastructure as an object-oriented model tied to a database. The various initiatives of the government to support research work is supported through this programme and we aim to achieve good work through the same.”
 
 
