Ranchi: The former member of the CPI  ,  , who was carrying a bounty of Rs.15 lakh on his head, is learnt to have surrendered before Ranchi police and is in its custody. However, police is yet to confirm the surrender by the dreaded Maoist. 

 Police had also kept under wraps the surrender of the Maoist regional committee member Nakul Yadav for nearly a month. Yadav, who also carried a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head, was learnt to have surrendered on April 12, but police officially announced it on May 4. 
 
 “We cannot comment on rumours,” said ADG and police spokesperson RK Mallick. 
 
 Kundan alias Ashish aka Vikas aka Bir Singh Munda was expelled from the outfit in 2014 after a series of allegations against him for not adhering to the party guidelines. Though the senior leaders of the Maoists were not ready to declare his expulsion in the wake of some of the ‘big’ events that he masterminded, one of the top leaders of the party in an earlier interview with TOI in 2010 and 2012 had justified his expulsion and said that “Pahan” was an “asset for the party provided he was ready to mend his ways”.
 
 Pahan rose to limelight as a notorious Maoist commander of Tamar-Arki region in 2008 after he looted Rs 5 crore from the cash van of the ICICI bank in March and execution of the then JD(U) MLA Ramesh Singh Munda in July 2008. He earned the reputation of brutality after he beheaded intelligence inspector Francis Induwar in October 2009. He was also accused of killing of five police personnel in Rahe Bazar. His accomplices were acquitted by the court. 
 
 Son of Narayan Pahan of Barigarha village in Arki block of Khunti district, Kundan, along with his two brothers, had joined the rank and file of CPI Maoists allegedly to sort out dispute of family property. One of his brothers, Dimba Pahan, having a reward of Rs.15 lakh had surrendered in January this year before Khunti police whereas another brother Shyam Pahan was arrested by state police from Haryana in February. Sources in the police said that the Pahan brothers have played a key role in convincing Kundan to surrender.
 
 
