NAGPUR: Union minister for road transport, highways, shipping and water resources   announced a multi-purpose four-storeyed stadium on the lands covering Yeshwant stadium, government library and Patrakar Bhavan. Gadkari also said decision on whether Rs 800 crore multi-modal transport hub will be at Ajni or Khapri will be taken after September 22.

 He was addressing the concluding ceremony of city   executive meeting held at Laxmi Nagar on Sunday.
 
 “Projects worth Rs 3 lakh crore will be executed in and around the city. Detailed project report of Nagpur-Hyderabad expressway is ready. Some 50,000 youths from the city are all set to get employment. HCL has decided to recruit 2,500 youths from the city. Plan is to make available 50,000 houses at Rs 2.50-3 lakh per house. Already, bhoomipuja for construction of 10,000 houses has been performed. East Nagpur will get Sickle cell and thalassaemia hospital-cum-research centre, Symbiosis University and SAI Regional Centre. Various projects including   (NMC) will materialize soon,” Gadkari said.
 
 He added Nag River rejuvenation project using Japan-based JICA funds will begin before 2019. “Target is to increase irrigated area of the state from 22% to 40%. Farmers suicide will come to an end once irrigation target is achieved. We also plan to replace all manual rickshaws with e-rickshaws in the city,” he said.
 
 At the inaugural programme, guardian minister Chandrashekar   said CM   had conducted a survey that indicated BJP was going to win 175 of 288 seats in 2019 legislative assembly elections. “BJP will get clear majority and form the next government on its own. Fadnavis will again be chief minister. PM Narendra Modi will also get a second term as BJP is going to win 399 Lok Sabha seats,” he said.
 
 Bawankule added government had waived Rs 35,000 crore of farmers’ loan. “Central and state governments were implementing a series of developmental projects and voters are happy. BJP activists should meet people and clear any confusion about government projects,” he said.
 
 Listing Modi’s projects and schemes, MP Ajay Sancheti tabled a proposal of appreciation of Modi before the executive committee. City BJP president and MLA Sudhakar Kohle tabled a proposal appreciating Fadnavis’s work.
 
 Kohle asked party workers to give two hours a day for meeting people. “A slew of developmental works are being done in the city. We need to make people aware of them,” he said. BJP general secretary and ruling party leader in the NMC Sandip Joshi conducted the proceedings. 
 
 
