KOCHI: The main accused in the multi-crore nursing recruitment scam Uthup M Varghese was arrested from   after he landed at the   limited (Cial) on Wednesday. 

 He was intercepted by immigration department on arrival and later handed over to the CBI. He was produced before the CBI court at 3pm. The court remanded him in judicial custody till Thursday. The custody petition by CBI and bail petition by Uthup will be considered on Thursday. CBI filed a custody plea and a petition seeking permission for further investigation as the chargesheet against Uthup and other accused had been filed last month. The court maintained that the petition was unnecessary to carry out further investigation in the case.
 
 The CBI petition filed before the court stated that: "Uthup M Varghese needs to be questioned to unearth the end use of money extorted from the nursing emigrants. Further, he needs to be questioned to trace the blank cheques and signed stamp papers extorted by him from the emigrants. For this purpose, further investigation under section 173(8) CrPC is essential in the case."
 
 The Puthupally native was included in Interpol's most-wanted list in 2016. He had evaded arrest, despite CBI being aware of his presence in Abu Dhabi. He returned to Kerala after the high court issued an order to surrender before the CBI. Earlier, Uthup had approached the high court with a plea to grant him more time to surrender before CBI after his anticipatory bail petition was dismissed by   last year.
 
 The court had told him that he had to surrender by March 30. Obeying the high court order, Uthup arrived at Nedumbassery in an   flight around 3.10am from Abu Dhabi. According to the counsel of  , they had informed the CBI of his arrival.
 
 He was intercepted from immigration section as there was a red corner notice in his name. The man was taken to CBI office in Kathrikadavu where he was interrogated.
 
 CBI had registered a case against Uthup Varghese, the proprietor of Al-Zarafa Travels and Manpower consultants, Protector of Emigrant (POE) L Adolphus and six others on March 30, 2015 after there were revelations that the recruitment agency charged a hefty Rs19.5 lakh as service charge from nursing recruits in place of Rs 19,500 recommended by the ministry of overseas affairs.
 
 
