JAIPUR:   and   may court trouble for putting pressure on the   ( ) to favour a particular bidder, who was found to be technically ineligible, in a tender for the   of the Nagaur lift project.

 In a letter dated February 7 and presented personally to PHED minister Surendra Goyal, Bishnoi urged the minister to look into the case of bidder Dara-Ramky JV and take ‘considerate and appropriate action’. He even demanded Goyal to inform him about the action taken.
 
 Bishnoi also used the official letter head of the chairman of central wool development board, ministry of textiles, even though his term was over in November 2016.
 
 “It might have been a clerical mistake. I forgot to write ‘ex’ before chairman,” said Bishnoi in his defense. He, however, denied that what he had written about the company, Dara-Ramky JV, was unlawful. “My submission was that the bidding process should be followed as per law. There was nothing illegal in it,” added the former minister.
 
 Bishnoi’s plea, recommending one of the bidders, is in gross violation of the Rajasthan Transparency in Public Procurement Act (RTPP). As per rules, all tendering process has to be vetted by the financial committee, headed by the additional chief secretary of the department. The minister has no role in awarding tenders and any pressure exerted for a company could lead to the immediate disqualification of the firm. The matter is pending before the Rajasthan High Court.
 
 Pappu Ram Vishnoi, the owner of Dara-Ramky JV, claimed that he had never asked Bishnoi to write the letter. “I took him along to put forth my case before the minister. I was not aware that he wrote a letter and, even if he did, there is nothing wrong” said Vishnoi.
 
 Department officials claim that the letter was written to put pressure on second appellate authority, J C Mohanty, additional chief secretary (ACS), who is evaluating the case.
 
 Two days after the letter, in a complete reversal of the earlier stand where Dara-Ramky JV was deemed ineligible, chief engineer M K Karal revised his order and qualified the firm. Karal said that his decision was based on the orders of the second appellate authority. “There are provisions in the RTPP Act that lets an aggrieved contractor move the appellate authority. My decision is according to what the authority ordered,” said Karal.
 
 Mohanty too denied showing any favoritism and said that the matter was now sub-judice and the directions of the court would prevail.
 
 
