NAGPUR: A clarification issued by the   department on the Prime Minister   ( ) allows any person to disclose even deposits parked in others’ accounts under the amnesty scheme. Going by one of the answers to FAQs, released last week, one can simply get the deposits withdrawn and disclose the cash under the scheme.

 Question no. 12 of the FAQs cites an example. It says, if A made an advance in cash for buying goods or services (not immovable property), to B, which is deposited in his bank account by the latter. However, if the deal does not materialize and funds are returned through bank or cash, can such funds be declared under PMGKY? It further asks whether the deal will attract penalty under 271D and 271E of the Income Tax Act. These provisions call for penalty equal to the full amount of advance or any such payment if done in cash.
 
 The income tax department has clarified that A will be eligible to declare the amount received from B’s account in cash under the scheme. It further says that since the payment has been done for procurement of goods or services, it will not attract any penalty under sections 271D or 271E.
 
 Tax experts say this leaves scope to misuse the provisions. Like benami accounts, cash is parked in different accounts to dodge tax. Now, it will be easy to simply withdraw the cash from such accounts and get it disclosed. This will violate the income tax provisions that call for cap on cash payments over Rs20,000.
 
 In that case, if A makes advance cash payment to B for procuring goods or services, it is a questionable transaction, say experts. If B had put the advance money in a bank account, it can be repaid through the same route instead of cash, say chartered accountants.
 
 The field offices had sought a clarification whether benami deposits can be disclosed under the scheme. The FAQs have given an indirect clearance for such deposits, say experts. 
 
  Naresh Jhakotia said the penal provisions in income tax laws have been framed to prevent showing of huge cash found during raids as loans or its repayment from a third party. Now, if the provisions are not attracted, it gives a window to even disclose cash parked in third party accounts.
 
 “Those declaring such cash will have to establish that the funds were given for purchase of goods or services. However, this gives a window to even declare benami or other doubtful deposits kept in others’ names,” said Abhijeet Kelkar, a chartered accountant.
 
