MUMBAI: The   is seen to be better placed compared with other emerging market currencies as the Indian economy is less vulnerable to protectionist policies expected from US President  .

 After Trump's election victory, the rupee has outperformed several emerging market currencies. “The rupee continues to be a better performing currency and is at or above the median level of change in a set of 17 currencies. We believe that the rupee will be driven more by fundamentals than an external US shock. US policies are more likely to affect countries like Mexico and China, which may be expected in the next six months,“ said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE.
 
 On Friday, the rupee recovered from the red to end marginally higher at 68.04 against the dollar, up from the day's low of 68.23 and marginally stronger than Wednesday's close of 68.08.   dealers said increased demand for the dollar kept pressure on the rupee, but a higher opening in the domestic equity market helped the currency recover. According to Sabnavis, if currency movement during the fiscal is viewed separately for the period before US elections and after, the rupee has fared well in both. “It was at the median of 17 countries up to November and was above the median level subsequently,“ he added. 
 
 Half the currencies had declined by more than 5% in the first period. The renminbi was also affected and fell by over 5% up to November. However, it declined moderately by over 0.7% subsequently . The ruble, real, Taiwan and Hong Kong dollars were best performing with appreciation witnessed in both the periods.
 
 Future movement will be driven more by fundamentals in the balance of payments rather than this external influence. Also, the Mexican peso in particular will be affected the most as of now, while the renminbi will be under pressure depending on the policy actions taken by the US with regards to Chinese trade and investment. According to a report by Nomura, emerging markets are generally starting from a weak position to fend off `Trumponomics'. The report says that India is among the few emerging markets that could gain. “President Trump's warmer tone towards Russia has increased expectations that sanctions may be lifted or relaxed, but we do not expect it to happen this year. India too could benefit as President Trump seems to believe that a nuclear India is the real check to Pakistan,“ the report said.The only negative for India would be the immigration curbs that could hurt the IT industry.
 
 “Of the 23 emerging markets, there are only four in our leaders camp -India, Indonesia, Philippines and Peru -while there are 12 laggards and seven in the middle,“ the report said. The leaders are the markets that are expected to perform better.
 
 According to a Nomura survey , 67% of respondents believe it is either extremely or somewhat likely that the US will impose targeted tariffs on China. Mexico is singled out as the most exposed. “Over time, we believe US trade protectionism could be strongest against Asia. Although the US trade deficit with China dwarfs that of Mexico, China also masks Asia's massive supply chain,“ the report said.
 
 
