NEW DELHI:   (TC), the highest decision-making body in the industry, handed out on Friday a partial relief to financially-stretched telcos, giving them more time to make payments for spectrum purchases. Apart from that, the commission also approved a lower interest rate on any penalties that companies need to pay to the government for delayed payments.

 Official sources said that the TC decided to go ahead with key recommendations of the inter-ministerial group (IMG) that had been formed to give suggestions on providing relief to stressed telecom companies. “The companies will now get 16 years to make spectrum payments instead of the 10 years at present,” sources said.
 
 The payment period starts after a two-year moratorium following the initial down-payment for the airwaves purchase. The TC also decided to move the interest rate “from PLR to MCLR plus 400 basis points”, so the interest on delayed payments would come down to 12% from 14%, sources said.
 
 The matter will now be taken up by the Cabinet. TOI was the first to report about the impending relief to telecom companies in spectrum payments in its edition dated July 25.
 
 The IMG — which had officials from the telecom and finance ministries — had heard mobile operators, bankers to the industry and other key stakeholders before firming up its suggestions.
 
 Telecom companies claim an overall debt burden of around Rs 4.5 lakh crore and say their situation has deteriorated after the launch of   in September last year.
 
 Jio, which offered lifetime free voice and cheap data plans, disrupted the business financials of operators such as Airtel, Vodafone, Idea and  .
 
 This resulted in most of them plunging into losses (except for Airtel which has seen profits plummet by over 70% in the past few quarters).
 
 The older operators have been complaining about Jio’s tariffs, with some of them even accusing the new entrant of engaging in predatory pricing. However,   has refused to acknowledge the allegations and sector regulator   also did not find any merit in them.
 
 Analysts say that the delayed payments will give “some reprieve” to the troubled telcos, though adding that “a significant relief would have been a reduction in the licence fee and/or the spectrum usage charge (SUC) that companies have to pay to the government”.
 
 
