KOLKATA: At least 52   working since Wednesday evening took more than 20 hours to bring a blaze under control on Thursday afternoon at Madhyamgram in North 24-Parganas. Five   fell seriously ill after the fire broke out in a   that housed three factories near the Kolkata airport. 

 Though the police claimed the blaze under control, some fire tenders were still working till the reports last came in on Thursday evening. 
 
 On three separate floors in the building were a chemical factory, a fertilizer manufacturing unit and a hosiery factory. Their godowns were completely gutted. The locals said several blasts also took place in the building after it caught fire. The surrounding areas are dotted with small-scale industries like led and plastic and chemical factories. Some of these were also partially damaged. 
 
 The situation took a turn for the worse on Wednesday night when a major portion of the building threatened to collapse after the flames almost engulfed the entire structure. 
 
 The fire-fighting operation was obstructed by the blockade of the damaged concrete walls of the factory. 
 
 Sensing trouble, the two JCB (Joseph Cyril Bamford) excavator machines were brought from Madhyamgram municipality on an emergency basis and the walls at the back portion of the factory building were smashed to fight the blaze. 
 
 Panic gripped the locals after a pungent smell of chemical spread in the area. All the residents and workers from nearby buildings had to be evacuated. The electric service in the area was also disconnected. 
 
 A large contingent of police led by the senior district police officials including SP (North 24-Parganas) Bhaskar Mukherjee and ASP Abhijit Banerjee rushed to the spot. The area was cordoned off and a police team started evacuating the area immediately. “We didn’t take any risk with the massive fire and took all preventive measures. We also got full cooperation from the local people. Soon after we rushed to the spot, we took the locals to a safe distance. Our team started announcing not to panic. A police picket has been posted since Thursday evening to avoid any incident,” said Mukherjee. 
 
 Senior officials including Jag Mohan, DG,   fire services, reached the spot and supervised the operation. Madhyamgram civic chairman and MLA Rathin Ghosh also reached the spot.
 
 Sources said around 8.30 pm on Wednesday, the fire broke out in the fertilizer factory on the ground floor of the building at Jhautala near Ganganagar, close to the airport.
 
 
