NAVI MUMBAI: The civic administration is in the process of constructing the sixth cell for   generated in the city on the recently acquired 34 acres of land from the goverment. 

 The existing cell’s capacity to accept waste is informed to be over within two months. The new cell is to be constructed on an area admeasuring 15000\ sqmtr and per the solid wate management rules 2016 will be able to accommodate rejects upto 20 meters of height. 
 
 The domestic waste collected from all the nodes once transported to the landfill is processed into wet and dry. Recylable waste is separated, wet waste is used for production of refuse derived fuel (RDF) and compost. The rejects as per the SWM rules are be disposed in a scientific manner into the sanitary landfill wherein the role of the cell begins which is to ensure that solid waste degradation shouldn’t happen in a manner that will lead to leaching and thereby cause damage to the environment. So every cell has a life expectancy which in case of the existing cell is nearing completio and therefore new one is to be constructed” said city engineer Mohan Dagaonkar.
 
 Administration has estimated of incurring an expenditure of approximately 1.95 cr in the construction of the cell with the capacity to treat 300lakh cubic meters of leach gate on every day basis.
 
 Until two months back administraiton had faced lot of resistance over the operation of the landfill site but the acquisition of 34 acre land from the state and administration's decision to set up its cell on the new plot has softened the opposition. " Since the new plot is slightly away from the residential area there is no objection to the work being understaken," said the Mayor Sudhakar Sonawane. 
 
 The existing landfill site is spread over 65 acre land and was handed over to NMMC on July 1, 2004. The first cell spread over 3.5 acres with a life expectancy of 1 year acre was made operational on 2005. Presently cell 5 spread over 4.83 acres is operational and is scheduled to accept waste until June. The sixth cell should be operational from June onwards and is expected to have life expectancy up to 2022.
 
 On an average 600 MT waste is collected by NMMC on daily basis. After the due process of processing into wet and dry waste, officials informed that 100 to 120 tonne of waste falls under the category of being inert or rather of no specific use. Scientific disposal system is followed by the administration for these 100 tons of waste which includes for every 1 meter of garbage accumulated administration lays 30 cm soil. “The inert waste don’t fall in either wet or dry category and basically has no purpose so a systematic procedure has to be followed for its disposal which is followed within the cells. Once the garbage accumulates to the height of 20 meters the cell has to be closed which is again an elaborate scientific procedure as followed in the previous cells," informed an official. 
 
