LONDON: There's a buzz around  . A halo that sparks a ring of invincibility. An edge that cuts like a blade.

 It has nothing at all to do with the other three men's semifinalists at   -his opponent on Friday Czech  , who he has already beaten twice this year, or first-timers in the last four at the   American   and Croat Marin Cilic. All of who stand over 6 ft 5' in their tennis shoes. It has, however, everything to do with the stylish Swiss' ability to stay relevant 19 years after he turned professional.
 
 Last year's runner-up  , who lost in straight sets to Federer playing his 100th match at Wimbledon, said the 35-year-old was in sparkling form.
 
 "He's mentally sharper and I think moving better," the Canadian, comparing Federer of 2017 to the man he beat in the semifinals last year, said. "He's just in better position. He has more freedom to do it. He's mentally on top of it. He kept a very high gear the whole time without giving many real glimpses. That was the most defeating thing. You can see there's not much doubt in his mind. He's feeling it."
 
 "I can't be too disappointed with myself," Raonic said of the third set tie-break in which he took a 3-0 lead. The 26-year-old didn't get too many plays after that as the seven-time winner ran away with it to make a record 12th Wimbledon semifinal."You try to keep making him do it again. And he did. He kept doing it."
 
 Fresh it seems has worked well for Federer, who took the second half of 2016 off, and again missed the clay court season. He's playing only his seventh tournament of year, having already won four titles. "I'm much better prepared for Wimbledon this year," Federer said, drawing a comparison to his 2016 campaign. "Last year I had a hard, hard time practising through the clay court season. The grass court season was difficult because of back and knee issues. I was lacking practice."
 
 Federer added, "I could never really play quite so freely last year. I'm was more focused on how the knee's behaving rather than how I need to hit my forehand or backhand, or what's not going to be good for my opponent. This year I'm just a normal tennis player where I can focus on tactics."
 
 The third seed, looking for an eighth title here, said, "I'm playing well. I'm rested. I'm fresh. I'm confident. Then great things do happen. Confidence is a huge thing."
 
 Berdych, 31, trails Federer 6-18 in head-to-head clashes. The Swiss, very much in the moment, dismissed the tag of favourite. "Being the favourite or not the favourite doesn't matter," Federer said. "These other (three) guys are all big hitters. I feel like they will have a say in the outcome of the matches. They've got big serves, big forehands, big hitters really. All three guys are taller and stronger than I am. I've got to figure out a way, carve my way through the draw somehow with my slice and my spins and my consistency maybe."
 
 Finding a way has long been the artful Federer's strength. On Friday, he'll need to do it one more time.
 
