BIJNOR: In a relief of sorts for   leader and 2016 Peda riots main accused  , the   government has now decided to shift him back to a prison in his home district here, almost six months after the erstwhile Samajwadi Party (SP) regime had sent him to Maharajganj prison, almost 800 kms from here.The order was issued by Surya Prakash Singh Saingar, joint secretary, UP government. A copy of the government order is with TOI.

  Chaudhary was accused of inciting mobs in Peda village that led to the killing of four persons and left at least a dozen injured in September last year.
  While Chaudhary was in jail, his wife   was given a BJP ticket from Bijnor city, from where she won.
 
  The president of BJP-affiliated Adhivakta Sangh, Chaudhary was initially lodged in Bijnor jail. However, on October 30, 2016 the UP government had ordered to shift him to Maharajganj jail. He was shifted on February 8 this year.
  Senior Bijnor jail officials said that they are yet to get a written order from higher authorities. “We are waiting for the copy of the order,” a senior jail official said, on condition of anonymity.
 
   , a lawyer and the father of Chaudhary, said, “The UP government has asked the jail authorities to shift my son Aishwarya Chaudhary back to Bijnor jail.
  “My son is suffering from slip disc and is undergoing treatment in Meerut Medical College. Several doctors had warned him against travelling long distance. But, ignoring doctors' advice, the SP government intentionally sent him to Maharajganj jail, almost 800 km away. As a result, Chaudhary’s condition deteriorated. He is now suffering from jaundice also.”
 
  “We had urged the new regime to shift Chaudhary to Bijnor jail on health grounds. The UP government examined our plea and accepted it,” Singh said.
  According to police, Chaudhary was present in Peda village during the clashes. He was arrested on October 1, when he had reached police station with his hundreds of supporters. His family later filed a bail plea, but the district judge rejected it saying, “It is a serious matter. There is evidence that he was present at Peda village during the clashes.”Now, his bail plea is pending with high court and its hearing is slated on May 18.
