BHOPAL: The   and   will pay compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the kin of two civic workers, who fell to death into a 30-ft deep sewage line in Shivpuri district on May 28 last year, according to   (MPHRC).

 This is the highest ever compensation being paid on the recommendation of MPHRC, officials said.
 
 Taking a suo motu cognisance of the death of two municipal workers, the MPHRC had on January 9 recommended the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the kin of deceased labourers within a month.
 
 MPHRC recommended the compensation after noticing violation of rule of prohibition of employment under Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, for not providing safety equipment.
 
 MPHRC recommended that the state government will have to pay compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family of any municipal employee who gets killed while cleaning sewage line or septic tank under section 18C of Human Right Protection Act, 1993. A copy of recommendation has been sent to principal secretary, urban development. National Human Rights Commission ( ) too had issued a notice to Madhya Pradesh government on the matter on June 8, 2016.
 
 On May 28, 2016, two sanitary workers had died of suffocation after falling into a sewage chamber near a meat market in Shivpuri. While cleaning the 30-ft deep chamber, Halka (25) slipped from a step on which he was standing and fell down. Kalla, another sanitary worker, too fell while trying to help him.
 
 In another incident wherein a woman died after wall of Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education fell on her, the MPBSE has paid Rs 1 lakh as relief to the kin of deceased. 
 
 The recommendation in this regard was made by Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) after which the MPBSE provided assistance to grieved family, MPHRC stated on Friday. Deceased, Lalita has died on June 22, 2015 after the wall caved in on her. MPHRC has taken cognizance of the incident and found that death of woman was due to negligence of MPBSE and recommended the MPBSE to pay a lakh of rupees as relief to the kin of deceased.
 
 
