NAGPUR: Dipak Mhaisekar, chairman of   (NIT), has urged state government to appoint botanical experts to probe the   in the agency. 

 BJP MLCs   and Anil Sole have submitted a legislative council question in the monsoon session of state legislature regarding the scam. Mhaisekar has submitted his reply to the government in this regard. The NIT chairman has also asked the plantation agency BVG India to complete the plantation or face action.
 
 Mhaisekar told TOI that NIT did not have experts to investigate the irregularities in tree plantation. “Either the urban development department (UDD) will appoint the experts or allow us to do the same,” he said.
 
 The chairman had recently suspended seven NIT staffers for their involvement in the scam. They include junior engineer Dilip Kene, head gardener BM Tibude and five gardeners Pramod Kinholkar, Eknath Bawankar, Murlidhar Bhuyar, Purushottam Urkude and Pramod Chate. These staffers had submitted reports to their higher ups claiming that BVG had met 100% target of plantation. The suspended staffers will submit their statement to the inquiry officer and may throw light on involvement of senior officials.
 
 Mhaisekar has issued a show cause notices to 25 senior and middle level officers of the civic agency. They include superintending engineers   and Satish Pasebandh. They overlooked the shoddy plantations done by BVG and returned its security deposit. Pasebandh had cleared the proposal to return the deposit of BVG without taking permission for NIT chief.
 
 Meanwhile, BVG chairman HR Gaikwad has promised to meet the plantation target without any extra charges anything extra. BVG is a Pune based company which offers diverse services including plantations, facility management services, facility management projects and emergency response services.
 
 NIT had decided to plant 1.60 lakh trees in 2012-13. The contract was awarded to BVG. It was to do the plantation work in four months and take care of the saplings for the next 24 months. NIT officials claimed that 100% plantation had been done and the survival rate was 47%. 
 
 However, Vyas in his complaint has stated that only 35% trees had been planted and the survival rate was abysmal. He charged on Wednesday that gardeners were being made the scapegoat to protect the senior officials, who cleared BVG’s bills without a work audit.
 
