JAIPUR: State   president   on Friday said that chief minister   has already accepted defeat by passing the ‘bungalow bill’ that would take care of her retirement days with free water, electricity, phone, car, staff and house.

 Pilot, while addressing a public rally in Sirohi, said, “The bungalow bill her government passed entitles a former chief minister to lifelong salary of Rs 20 lakh annually, a free house and staff of 15 persons from the tax payers’ money. This planning for retirement shows her deep acknowledgement that people have decided to overthrow her government in 2018.”
 
 The Congress state president was taking a swipe at Raje over the Rajasthan Ministers’ Salaries (Second Amendment) Bill, 2017 that was introduced, discussed and passed by the assembly within minutes on April 26. It was signed by Governor   early this month despite protests from BJP MLA  . Accusing Raje of trying to ‘encroach’ her present accommodation in Jaipur’s Civil Lines through this Act, Tiwari’s son Akhilesh has even complained to the Lokayukta.
 
 During his three-day tour of the twin districts of Jalore and Sirohi that ended on Friday, Pilot attacked the BJP-government at Centre and state for ignoring common man and farmers’ plights. “Despite unprecedented voting in favour of BJP in past assembly and general elections, the common man’s grievances remain unaddressed. BJP MPs and MLAs do not listen to common man, ministers do not listen to their party MPs and MLAs, chief minister does not listen to her ministers and the Prime Minister does not care for the chief minister,” said Pilot, addressing the rally in Sirohi.
 
 Emphasising that Congress was functioning as an active opposition, Pilot said Raje-government had to cancel 650 illegally allotted mines and continue previous government’s welfare schemes like free medicines, pensions, housing for poor and MGNREGA, among others. “BJP talks of cows and temples but maximum cows were killed and temples erased under the present government,” the Congress leader said. “Rajasthan has Gaupalan department but with no funds or staff. Government says cows die in its sheds because these are brought in sick conditions. So, why the cattle taken to private cow-shelters does not die?” he asked.
 
 Speaking of farmers’ issues, Pilot claimed it was for the first time in Rajasthan that farmers were forced to commit suicide. “This government has money to install water-fountains at its ministers’ houses but does not have funds to compensate farmers’ crop destroyed by hailstorm,” he said.
 
 Congress’s former legislator Sanyam Lodha said Raje and her party men promised to get Narmada river water to Sirohi but after coming to power nothing changed. “BJP’s own men, Kirti Azad and Ghanshyam Tiwari, have highlighted how much corruption is there under the BJP governments,” Lodha said.
 
