Nagpur: Around 150 residents from Gokul Society on Gorewada Road have joined hands to protest commercial activity in their residential locality. They are protesting   of an ‘illegal’ e-cab   centre in their locality.

 S S Bagchi, a resident of the Society said, “The   construction is going in front of my flat, they are building this centre for charging and maintenance of 20 E-cabs, it cause nuisance in the society.” The construction on the site is going on with iron rods trying to create a shed for the cabs which is opposed by the residents. “We do not want this construction happening as it is illegal to conduct commercial activities in the residential area,” a miffed Bagchi said.
 
 Following complaints from residents, a notice has also been issued at the site of construction by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) but the work is still on going. “We have sent notice to owner of the land following complaints. But for further action we will have to inquiry about sanctions at the land. If the construction on the site is still going on even after the notice it will fasten the further actions taken by NIT,” said Pankaj Ambhorkar divisional officer NIT West. The residents had filed complaints at NIT and to the commissioner of police Nagpur. 
 
 Corporator of the locality and standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav has recently visited the society and assured residents that proper actions will be taken. “The locality comes under my administration and anything illegal or affecting the residences will be taken seriously. After the enquiry by NIT people’s problems will be addressed,” said Jadhav. 
 
 The residents on Gokul Society also fearing for justice as they believe that party owner might be powerful and influential and can target them personally. “The transformer ordered by E-cab charging centre is of 150 Kilo watts. It is a big corporation and they are making our residential area industrial,” said another resident H Agrawal. “Our area is away from most of the locality and in the night it becomes a bit scary, if the industry starts here we will always live in fear for our family,” he added. 
 
 
