A mega drill: For students in  , it wasn't a usual day at school – the Disaster Management Cell, Noida, in association with the city's district administration, conducted a mega drill on Thursday. The drill, in which 108 schools from the district participated, was conducted to teach students how to react if an earthquake takes place.

 
 
 
  
  Primary students of NS Public School, Noida, also participated in the drill 
 
 
 Departments participate too: The drill started at exactly 11am in all schools, when the students assembled in their school grounds and were taught how to proceed if a natural calamity or a disaster takes place. Volunteers from the Disaster Management Cell (DMC), Noida, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel, observers from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) were also present during the drill.
 
 
  
  Volunteers of DMC, Noida, with an NDRF official, monitoring the drill at the DMC's office in Sector 29 Noida (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 A successful exercise: Dr Kumar Raka, planning specialist and head, Disaster Management Cell, Noida, said, "We have been planning this drive for quite some time, and finally, it was conducted successfully. It is a big success for us and we are happy that we could teach students the techniques of dealing with a situation like this. In this drill, Apeejay School, which had the highest strength of 4,200 students, evacuated the school in barely four minutes."
 
 
  
   
 
 
 Participation in big numbers: The main drill was held at Mahamaya Balika Inter College, Sector 44, Noida where professor Santosh Kumar, executive director, NIDM, NP Singh, former district magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, KM Singh, former member of NDMA and Dinesh Yadav, SP (City) were also present. At the emergency operations centre in the Disaster Management Cell, team commander, assigned 10 schools each, were responsible for coordinating with the school personnel and reporting to the command and control centre. About 80,000 students, 6,500 teachers and staff participated in this drill.
 
 
  
  Students of Marigold Public School, Greater Noida, practice emergency procedures to be followed if someone is hurt
 
 
  
  Students of DPS World School
 
 
 
