LUCKNOW: Muzaffaranagar riot accused sitting MLAs from Thana Bhawan and Sardhana,   and  , respectively have continued as favourite of the   leadership as both were among 149   in the first   announced in New Delhi on Monday. Akhilesh government had slapped NSA on Rana and Som accusing them of inciting mob through objectionable posts on social media and at public gatherings. 

 Though Rana and Som were both acquitted by court in the NSA cases, they emerged as the polarising forces of the UP BJP from western UP which saw after a long time Dalits and Jats joining hands during Lok Sabha election and giving a clean sweep to the party. Rana was later rewarded with the post of UP BJP vice-president, which his critics said was an award for his role in Muzaffarnagar riot.
 
 Talking to TOI, Rana said he was a dedicated BJP worker and his party and the country know well enough who was behind the Muzaffarnagar riot. “Everyone knows a powerful minister in the Akhilesh cabinet was behind the riots,” said Rana, claiming that once his party comes to power, anyone found guilty of the riots would be sent to jail. 
 
 Playing the polarisation card further, the party has named another Muzaffarnagar riots accused Vikram Saini for Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar. Saini had even gone to jail for a long time. 
 
 On the other hand, BJP has placed trust in RSS worker and Bijnore communal tension accused Aishwarya Chaudhary alias Mausam Chaudhary, giving him ticket from Bijnore. Chaudhary, who was accused of instigating crowds to attack residents of Peda village, according to ADG Law and order Daljeet Chaudhary, is still in jail. 
 
 Besides these, however, BJP has abstained from giving ticket to any other tainted leader. The decision comes probably in the wake of resentment among West UP BJP workers over tainted Guddu Pandit and his brother Mukesh Sharma's induction into the BJP. The two had cross voted in favour of BJP during MLC election and are know for proximity with Sardhana MLA Sangeet Singh Som. Though an outsider, Anil Sharma has been given BJP ticket for Shikarpur, which was represented by Guddu Pandit so far. 
 
 
