KOLKATA: The first phase of police investigation into the extortion and medical negligence complaint by Sanjay Roy’s wife came to an end on Tuesday with senior officers from Lalbazar questioning the top bosses of   — former CEO and president Rupali Basu and current CEO  . 

 There was high drama at   when Basu arrived at 5.50pm, almost four hours behind schedule. As news reached Lalbazar, senior officers went into a huddle to finalise their strategy. Deputy commissioner Debasmita Das came down to   with other senior officers an hour later. 
 
 The investigating team questioned Basu for close to five hours. She finally left the police station at 10.40pm. No other official or doctor of the hospital has been questioned for this long. Besides being the former president of Apollo, Basu holds important posts such as member of the state steering committee on industries.
 
 According to police sources, the investigators asked Basu to explain the alleged discrepancy in the hospital bill which shows that the patient was charged more than once for the same procedures. The cops said a discrepancy of Rs 1.24 lakh has been detected between the bills furnished by   to the investigators and the actual amount that the family was charged. 
 
 Basu was also asked about the management practice followed at the hospital. She was asked to elaborate on the hospital management structure to fix responsibility particularly because of the family’s complaint that the hospital authorities had asked them to submit fixed deposit receipts and property deeds as guarantee when they failed to pay the entire amount before shilfting Roy. This was all the more important because men on duty at the billing desk had apparently hinted at “orders from above” while seniors in the hierarchy were not ready to take the blame.
 
 Basu, who was on vacation in New Zealand during this period, has been consulting lawyers over the implication the charges can have on her given the fact that she was away. She was advised to appear for questioning because the police had served her a notice under section 41 of the CrPC in which arrests are made under exceptional circumstances. 
 
 Apollo CEO Rana Dasgupta faced the same questions for six hours separately. He was also questioned on details of the medical treatment and services provided to the patient right from the time of admission till he was shifted to SSKM. The answers of Basu and Dasgupta will be compared to detect possible lapses in treatment and administration. 
 
 “We were repeatedly told by the 14 doctors and numerous staffers we questioned that crucial administrative decisions were taken by the top management. They claimed they were following the policies laid down by the management. We wanted to know from Basu who had informed her about the incident while she was abroad and whether she had given any relevant instructions. We wanted to know from Dasgupta his role as the highest decision-maker on the day of the incident,” explained an officer. He added that the focus was on ascertaining the role of the top management vis-a-vis the billing department. “It is the gap in the statements between seniors and juniors that we are trying to plug to ascertain the claim of extortion,” a source said.
 
 
