TRICHY: Missing person complaints to trace ministers, MLAs and MPs continued to mount as the power games in the AIADMK and the state presented a hectic Sunday to the police. Meanwhile, four former MLAs from Karur and Dindigul districts have expressed their support for chief minister O Panneerselvam. 

 A resident of Papanasam in Thanjavur district has lodged a police complaint alleging that D Duraikannu, MLA and agriculture minister of their assembly constituency (Papanasam), has been kidnapped and kept hidden by family members of AIADMK general secretary VK  . Police have registered a case in this regard and issued a copy of the FIR to the complainant. 
 
 According to police, Mahalingam, 67, of Vellai Pillaiyar Koil street in Papanasam lodged the complaint on Saturday stating that minister and Papanasam assembly MLA R Duraikannu had gone missing for the last few days. He had been allegedly abducted by the family members of Sasikala and police should do the needful to find him. The complainant alleged that he had been receiving anonymous calls threatening him with dire consequences for submitting the complaint. 
 
 Interestingly, in a similar complaint of person missing lodged for R Kamaraj, food minister and MLA of Nannilam assembly constituency in Triruvarur district, and Dr Gopal, MP of Nagapattinam, the complainant got a call from the MLA clarifying that both of them were safe. The complaint was lodged by Madusudhanan, party youth wing general secretary of Tiruvarur district, with Kudavasal police station. Following this he withdrew his complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, former fisheries minister KA Jayapal has decided to join O Panneerselvam’s team along with his supporters. He was elected from Nagapattinam assembly segment in the 2011 elections and was also holding various posts like district treasurer and district fishermen wing organiser. Jayapal said he had decided to support the caretaker chief minister respecting the people’s feelings against Sasikala. 
 
 At a meeting convened by AIADMK partymen in Karur district, four former MLAs expressed their solidarity with Panneerselvam and urged him to form an alternative government. They were K Vadivel, former MLA of Karur, Kandasamy of Aravakuruchi, Kamaraj of Krishnarayapuram and Kuppusamy of Ottanchathram constituency in Dindigul district.
 
  Meanwhile, RT Ramachandran, MLA of Kunnam assembly segment in Perambalur district, has sent hints that he is awaiting a signal from R Vaithilingam, Rajya Sabha MP and party's Thanjavur district secretary. Vaithilangam who was in charge of Ariyalur and Perambalur district units of the party, had built a good rapport with various party functionaries including RT Ramachandran, sources said. RP Marutharaja, MP of Perambalur, had already joined hands with O Panneerselvam on Sunday. 
 
 
