NEW DELHI:   chief executive  , who met traditional retailers across Mumbai over the past two days, wants to use the opportunity thrown up by demonetisation to push adoption of cash-less payments at the company’s most important points of sale: mom and pop stores.
 
  PepsiCo, which along with other consumer goods makers was hit hard by the note ban in November, is in talks with a couple of leading FMCG firms to push   at  .
  
  A PepsiCo spokeswoman confirmed the move. “We are working to create a consortium with partners and industry players to enhance digitisation of trade,” She declined to specify the names of the potential partners, adding that it was work in progress and that the information was “sensitive at this stage”.
  
  PepsiCo’s beverages and snacks reach close to 3 million outlets, according to retail audit surveys. “We have set up a three-pronged approach to support the move to a less-cash economy,” the spokeswoman said. In addition to the consortium of players, the maker of Pepsi cola and Lay’s chips is working with ewallet companies and is in talks with a state-run bank to push digital payments among retailers.
  
  At least two-thirds grocery stores had reported as much as a 70 per cent drop in sales in the first week since demonetisation. Just 1 per cent of kirana stores were equipped for non-cash payments before the move. Companies like PepsiCo and Coca-Cola were among the worst hit as people cut down on discretionary spending to conserve cash.
  
  Nooyi, currently on an India visit, met finance minister Arun Jaitley on Wednesday, and discussed the move to digitisation of payments and the impact and implementation of the goods and services tax. The new tax system that will bring most indirect taxes under a single levy is likely to be rolled out on July 1.
  
  Nooyi had tweeted on Wednesday morning from Mumbai: “Innovative India is starting to use digital where cash once dominated - turning demonetisation into remonetisation.”
  
  Most consumer goods firms across sectors had reported subdued sales in the October-December 2016 quarter, which they attributed to the currency ban. At least six global heads of consumer companies, including Nooyi, had said the impact would take time to settle.
  
  “Our hope is that by the time Q2 rolls in, we would be through the bulk of the demonetisation challenges. The new currency and the digital currency will be back in circulation and we’ll be back to retail activity coming back to normal,” Nooyi had told analysts on a conference call after PepsiCo reported its fourth-quarter results.
  
  She is set to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week to discuss matters such as Indo-US relations, demonetisation and the company’s proposed shift to low-sugar beverages and foods. Nooyi is the only Indian-American in President Donald Trump’s policy forum, which is helping the new US government in shaping economic agenda.
