MUMBAI: The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ), being run by CEO   and backed by the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA), has decided to bring down the   ( ) media rights tender period from 10 years to five.

 The earlier media rights tender invitation which was floated on September 19, 2016, but wasn't opened on the scheduled date (October 25, 2016) because of the long-standing legal battle in the Supreme Court involving the BCCI old guard, was stipulated for a period of 10 years (broadcast) and five years (digital).
 
 The new 'Invitation To Tender ( )', to be brought out immediately after the day of the IPL 2017 final ­ May 21, 2017 ­ will now be for a collective period of just five years for broadcast and digital both. The decision to bring down the rights period by a good five years ­ from 2018 to 2022 ­ will ensure that the rights next come up for renewal just before the   (ICC) media rights in 2023. It is being seen as a masterstroke by the cricket industry.
 
 "The ITT will be brought out soon after May 21, 2017 and bids will be opened after 45 days," a source in the know of developments told TOI. The 45-day window to submit bids will conclude a good 10 days after the ICC's Annual Conference scheduled from June 19-23. That is bound to keep the member boards guessing over how the   auction will play out. It will be clear that these (IPL) broadcast rights will next come up for renewal only after five years, which will then clash with the ICC global rights. So, that'll be an interesting proposition for stakeholders," a cricket industry executive said.
 
 With an ex-CAG now heading the administrative affairs in BCCI -COA head   ­ the curtailing of rights period is being seen as based on the economic principles of looking at maximising revenues in short term, the same principles on which the English Premier League broadcast rights were picked up last year by Sky and BT Sports for three seasons at £5.136bn.
 
 In the earlier ITT, BCCI had divided the rights into three separate buckets. The Indian sub-continent television rights on offer were for 10 IPL seasons (2018 ­ 2027); while India digital eights and rest of the media rights for 5 IPL seasons each (between 2018­2022). In contrast, the ITT now coming up next month will offer a single bucket with the Indian sub-continent television rights as well as the India digital and rest of the media rights all being offered for a stipulated period of five years.
 
 This move, on part of the BCCI, eradicates doubts to an extent of there not being a level-playing field for all bidder s, unlike the previous ITT that appeared to have put the television broadcasters in a likely position to sweep all rights.However, it is to be seen how the new ITT will allow BCCI to compare consolidated bids against bids for individual rights in a scenario where bidders can now put a figure for all three rights without breaking down individual component values.
 
 The tender document will call for separate bids for overseas rights, TV and digital, segregating them into five territories instead of six mentioned in the previous ITT as BCCI will look to maximise its revenue. The sub-Saharan market that had been opened up previously as a separate territory will now be clubbed along with the global rights. As mentioned in the previous ITT, agencies will not be allowed to bid for the subcontinent rights.
 
 The due diligence of the process will be handled by Deloitte, and the legal due diligence would be handled by law firm Amarchand Mangaldas.
 
 The previous media rights deal for IPL was originally bagged by the World Sports Group (WSG) in 2008 for 10 years at US$918m, following which the deal was renewed with Sony Pictures ­ Multi Screen Media Pvt Ltd, back then ­ the following year for a total of US$1.63b for the next nine years.
 
 
