NEW DELHI: The first Congress-SP electoral alliance in UP marks the change of role for   from ‘strike bowler’ for his party’s revival mission to that of ‘wicketkeeper’ of the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP-Congress alliance.
 
  This tactical re-positioning of Gandhi and the  , which steadfastly refused to play second fiddle to either the SP or BSP in all elections since Sonia Gandhi took charge in 1998, advertises the critical importance the party attaches to stopping the BJP’s bid to wrest UP. Yet there is guarded acknowledgment that the pact with hitherto turf rival SP — coming after the Congress’ successful supporting role to Nitish-Lalu in Bihar — risks pushing the Grand Old Party to a supporting role as the ambitions of regional parties grow larger.
  
  However, the AICC also knows a victory for the   in UP, besides invigorating the Modi regime and his party in the run up to the 2019 polls, will leave Congress, and more importantly the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, to face the maximum heat. Hence, they hope that an SP-Congress alliance victory would pump up the Congress beyond UP, while delivering a critical jolt to the Modi regime and sharpening the BJP-RSS fault-lines.
  
  Congress’ close contests against the BJP in Uttarakhand and against AAP in Punjab make the UP a highrisk occupational hazard in the party’s larger scheme.
  
  “Alliance with the SP will weaken Congress’ longterm goals in UP ahead of the 2019 polls. Yet, it is important we first get a strategic foothold in the battle against the BJP in UP before we get back on our feet for the war,” said a senior Congress leader.
  
  The AICC also knows that the days of ‘MGR formula’ for Centrestate seat-sharing and power arrangement with regional parties is a thing of the past.
  
  It realises that if Nitish Kumar can develop a larger-than-life ‘national ambition’ and work at cross-purpose with the GOP, the SP-Congress victory would ignite Akhilesh’s national ambition and join the ranks of Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal already jostling for the slot Congress wants for Rahul. Strategically floated tales of ‘Rahul-Akhilesh friendship’ apart, Congress leaders have not forgotten that the CM had taunted Gandhi by talking about his dream of seeing “Netaji (Mulayam) as PM, and Rahul his deputy” at a Delhi event just two years ago. Hence, a victory will intensify the SP-Congress fight to secure the minority votes.
  
  However, a victory for the alliance in UP would strategically reinforce Congress’ upcoming battles against the BJP in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, where the saffron regimes face anti-incumbency. A favourable outcome in these states, in turn, could see Congress bounce back to the leadership position of anti-BJP mobilisation in 2019. 
