HYDERABAD: At a time when  ' is being observed, three persons died and five others suffered injuries at separate accidents in the city on Wednesday . In one of the mishaps, an alleged minor hit a man near Himayatsagar.

 The Rajendranagar police said Mallaiah Yadav, 60, and two other family members, were sitting on the steps of their house. Around 7 pm, a car veered off the road, came came towards them and hit Mallaiah Yadav and Veerababu and two others before hitting two parked vehicles. Mallaiah died on the spot, while Veerababu suffered fractures.
 
 Locals and passerbys saw driver Uttam, who could be 17 or 18 years, and three others including two girls, in the car at the time of the mishap. “By the time police reached the spot, only Uttam was in the car. He was driving a Maruti X-Cross and did not have a driving licence.His age is being ascertained by verifying Aadhaar card or other documents,'' Rajendranagar inspector V Umender said.
 
 Uttam claimed that in order to avoid hitting a dog, he swerved and ended up hitting the victims. Uttam, a resident of Attapur, was travelling towards Himayathsagar when the accident took place. Police registered a case.
 
 In another case at Medchal, a 35-year-old person died after a lorry ran over him at Basaragadi village on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The Medchal police said Chandra Prakash, Govinda Raju and Venkata Satyanarayana Raju were travelling on a bike from Ayodhya X roads to Dundigal. “The bike, which was being driven by Raju, hit a ready-mix lorry, which was taking a U-turn. All the three fell on the road and the lorry went over Prakash. He died on the spot. The other two suffered injuries,'' Medchal sub-inspector M Kishore said.
 
 At Jeedimetla, a man who was travelling in an autorickshaw, died after the three-wheeler was hit by a lorry coming in the wrong direction at Chintal. V Venkanna (46), a resident of   village and a labourer, was travelling in the auto along with his wife Shashi Rekha and auto driver Anil Kumar. Around 5.30 pm, the lorry driver was on his way to park the vehicle in a nearby open site. Lorry driver   hit the auto and Venkanna died on the spot.
 
