Ludhiana: Different rates of GST on sewing machine industry have created a rift between some large-scale manufacturers and traders. The GST rate on casting and raw material, like pig iron, has been fixed at 18%, while finished parts and sewing machines will be taxed at 12%. Initially, the businessmen were confused due to non-clarity of tax rates from authorities, but the matter was sorted last week.

 Despite that, some of the large-scale manufacturers of sewing machine parts are adamant on charging 18% GST from traders, leading to resentment. The situation has led to a cold war between both sides and social media is abuzz with messages and posts from traders, who allege that some big manufacturers wanted to destroy small-scale industry on the pretext of GST. On the other hand, the business of sewing machine industry has nosedived due to the standoff as the traders have put off purchases from manufacturers.
 
 Speaking to the TOI, some of the traders lashed out against manufacturers, who, they said, were going against the law and charging 18% GST instead of 12%. “This is because if they charge 12%, they will have to seek GST refund of 6% from the taxation department, which is a lengthy procedure. But if they charge 18%, the GST paid by manufacturers on purchase of raw material will be set off and they will be saved from the process of applying for refund,” they reasoned.
 
 A delegation of businessmen, led by president of Sewing Machine Dealers’ and Assemblers’ Association Mohinder Singh and former president Varinder Rakheja, met Union finance minister Arun Jaitley last week and urged him to fix one GST rate on the entire product range. After listening to their grievances, Jaitley invited the businessmen to Delhi for further discussion on the matter. 
 
 Rakheja said, “Our business is in doldrums. Despite having orders from buyers, we are unable to process them because of the dispute over GST rate. It is clear that the rate on finished parts and sewing machine is 12%. The customs department, too, recently cleared consignments of sewing machines at this rate. During our meeting with the FM, we requested him to fix single rate of 5% on our industry, which will be beneficial for all.” 
 
 The association head, Mohinder Singh, said, “We are facing a tricky situation. On one side our sales have tumbled after GST implementation and on the other, we are unable to fulfil even small orders due to the confusion. Already half a month has passed and if the matter is not resolved at the earliest we will suffer huge losses.” 
 
 A sewing machine parts’ manufacturer, however, said, “The GST rate is 18% on finished products.”
 
 
