LUCKNOW: Chief minister   statement at a   might kick up another storm as he expressed his agreement over the VHP's demand to rebuild a Surya Temple at Balaar in Bahraich, rename Lucknow's Sainik School on   and construct a memorial in name of Raja Suheldev. 

 Interestingly, after raking up contentious issues at Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi, RSS might add construction Surya Temple at Bahraich in its agenda. What is certain to stir up hornet's nest is CM Aditya Nath Yogi's nod to VHP's demand. 
 
 The Chief Minister was speaking at VHP's 'Hindu Vijay Utsav' programme at Scientific Convention Centre being held to mark the victory of Raja Suheldev over Muslim invader Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud, who also was the nephew of army general of Mahmud Ghazni. 
 
 In this country, name anyone who will not have respect for Ashfaaque Ullah Khan, Abdul Hameed and APJ Abdul Kalam, but it has also to be decided whether those who claim a connect with Ghazni, Ghauri, Khilji, Babar and Aurangzeb, should be given any space or not, Yogi said. 
 
 Clarifying that a new education policy was on the anvil, the Chief Minister said that the UP government would include great personalities of the country like Raja Suheldev, Lakhan Pasi, Jhalkari Bai in the course textbooks of the students. The new education policy would be implemented by the next academic session, the saffron-clad CM said. 
 
 Mahmud Ghazni and his nephew had plundered the country and had even demolished maths and temple and then used to divide the country, the CM said and added that but Raja Suheldev had understood their gameplan. 
 
 After foreign invasion, the country forgot about the Indian heroes, Raja Suheldev had united many smaller kingdoms but the honour he should have got, eluded him, Yogi further said. 
 
 Earlier, the VHP demanded that Raja Suheldev's valour should be given space in school syllabus for which the CM should also talk to the Centre, statues should be installed at Shravasti and Bahraich, a memorial should be constructed at Bahraich in the name of Raja Suheldev, Lucknow's Sainik School be renamed after Raja Suheldev and a Surya Temple would be constructed at the place where the temple was demolished and Salar Masud's dargah has come up. 
 
 On his turn, Yogi while confirming that a memorial would be built and statues would be installed, went further to state: "VHP ke aur bhi maango se main apni sahmati vyakt karta hoon." 
 
 Hitting out at the motive behind the distorted history, Chief Minister Aditya Nath Yogi said that those who have distorted the history should be exposed. Clearly siding with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the Chief Minister said that now when the RSS was working for upliftment of Dalits and downtrodden, it is tagged as communal. "I want that a discussion should be held on who is communal and who is not," the CM said. Those who present the distorted history of the country call themselves as humanitarian, hence discussion should be held, Yogi said. 
 
 He said that the BJP government decided to cancel holidays on occasion of birth and death anniversaries of great personalities only because the government wants children to know about the great personalities rather than enjoying just another holiday. "Everyone should know about Dr BR Ambedkar, about his struggle. If children are not told all this, how will they know about them. Schools and colleges should organise debate on these great personalities. There should be separate programmes in the evening. This would happen in UP," the chief minister said.
 
