 hosted his annual press conference on the occasion of his birthday on Tuesday morning. The ‘Dangal’ star turned 52 and said that he brought in his birthday by staying in bed. He said, “I was sleeping at 12 am. I was reading a book at 10:30-11 pm, and slept off in the next 15-20 minutes. I received a lot of congratulatory text messages and calls.”
 
 
  
  
 The actor is spending the day with his family and friends like every year. “This time around, my family is a little bigger and I am very happy that Geeta, Babita and   are all here. Even my mother is here for my birthday. My mother gifts me the same thing every year – I love the seekh kebabs that she makes. She prepares the kebabs every year for me,” he said.
 
  
  
 Besides his birthday plans, the question on everybody’s mind was about his recent meeting with  . “I met him twice recently – earlier at Ajay Bijli’s birthday and then he invited me home. It felt nice to meet him after a long time. There’s no motive behind our getting together; we are meeting just as friends,” he said.
 
 Of course, with his last release ‘Dangal’ having made box-office history, the press conference wouldn’t be complete without mentioning the astounding success of the film. Reflecting on the movie’s success, Aamir said, “
  numbers are indicative of your film’s quality. If people love your films, that will reflect in the numbers.”
 
 The actor further added that box-office numbers have never been a motivating factor for him to sign a film. “I don’t think of numbers while signing a film. I just select the films that excite me. The journey of making a film is more important to me,” he stated.
 
 
  
  
  With ‘Dangal’, he gave Bollywood four new talents to watch out for – Sanya Malhotra, Fatima Sana Shaikh, Zaira Wasim and Suhani Bhatnagar. When asked if he will be mentoring them ahead, Aamir said that all four of them are very talented. “They don’t need my advice. But if they do, I am always there for them. They will prove to be biggest assets for the industry”, he said. The socially conscious actor that he is, one always wonders if politics is on the cards for Aamir. He dismissed the notion saying that he is not interested in joining politics, but would like to contribute to the society in other ways. One to give his opinion on social matters, he added that he has “always been careful” in expressing how he feels on current affairs. 
 
  
  
 Aamir is known to undergo physical transformations for many of his films. When asked if his body is reeling from the effects of such drastic physical changes, he said, “As an actor, it’s my responsibility to bring about changes in my appearance. There haven’t been any adverse effects of the weight changes that I’ve undergone through the years.” The actor also informed that he is currently trying out different looks for his next, ‘Thugs Of Hindostan’ and the team is yet to zero down on a particular look, before the shoot starts in June.
  
 Aamir signed off by saying that this year has started on an exciting note for him as he is getting an opportunity to work with 
  in ‘Thugs Of Hindostan’. Aamir admitted that he has been a lifelong fan of the superstar and hopes to learn a lot from the veteran actor. 
 
 
