Talk about an actress who nor hesitate to be blatantly honest about her opinions and does not believe in being miss goody two shoes and we have   trumping the list.
The actress most popular as Akshara of  , went onto explore and tap every opportunity that she had give upon while a part of YRKKH. Right from spending quality time with her oneself to participating in the fear factor reality show  , the actress did it all. Though   could not add another feather to her success hat while in  , the actress definitely considers it to be a lifetime learning experience.
 
 In a tete-a-tete, the actress spoke in length about her experience in KKK.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The toughest task was the Chicken & Basket stunt which was very very gross, I will never forget that. For one week, we had a running nose, we fell ill. The other would be chilli pepper gas where we all felt that we died. These two tasks were the most difficult tasks of KKK 
 
 
 
 I still remember the time when I signed KKK, I remember talking to myself that I must do it because everyone around me forced me to. I thought I would do few episodes initially & come back. I never imagined that I'll reach the finale, & without losing a single stunt in 14 episodes & then after 14th episode I lost one stunt, my very first stunt. I still can't believe it & I'm really proud of myself. I never thought I could. 
 
 
 
 The best thing about KKK are the things you'll do in the show, you'll never ever get to do ever in your life again. Things they make you do & while doing those things, all that you discover about yourself is just amazing & that you can never ever discover ever in your life. Whatever phase you go in life, good, bad, you'll never be able to discover what you discover in KKK & I think this is the reason, because KKK gave me a lot of confidence, I realized that I'm mentally so strong,
 
 
 
 This was the first time when I was away from my family for such a a long time, it was quite an emotional situation because my mom used to cry a lot. I was away from Rocky since a very long time. He met me later and we did some stunts together. I missed him a lot. But shooting in Spain was just an amazing experience. I just loved it. I really don't regret staying away from my family for so long because this experience was wonderful and this can only happen once in a life time.
 
 
 
 Well it was not just for KKK but have always been that person and I always make sure that I voice my opinion out. I have always been like this, I really don't believe in sitting quiet and not talking for yourself. So yes in KKK whenever I used to feel when something is wrong so I would definitely voice it out. So that is how I did it in the show as well and I am the same kind of person. After all I am also a human being I also make mistakes, I may be wrong but that doesn't mean that one shout keep quiet and not speak up. In terms of space everyone was given the space in the show. Infact we all enjoyed our time and this is not at all true. 
 
 
 
 
 I bonded very well with Geeta because she was my neighbour, so we used to catch up a couple of times. We shopped together in Spain whenever I needed her she was always there. She use to give me head, back massages, I so miss those desi massages, she was so good at it and it really worked. So yes we had a great time together and I bonded with her really well.
 
 
 
 
 My favorite moment on the show was when I did that stunt where I was buried alive with   being my competitor and I won that stunt & that was a fab moment for me because I never expected that I will ever be able to do that stunt and then I was very nervous as that was the only stunt where I cried and I was very very scared that day. Rohit   announced that I won, that feeling was to some other level for me. The finale stunt also where I was very proud of myself there have been people who were driving swimming for ages and were so good in so many things so sometimes you lose in the best thing you know. I have never driven a manual car and I am not a professional swimmer but I tried my best and swim in the sea, finished my stunt, jumped off the moving boat, did everything whatever was required and then I had to take my car down on the left wheels, I did every thing which was possible and finished the finale stunt in style and I am super proud of myself.
 
 
 
 
