NEW DELHI: The government has cleared the way for land pooling to become a reality, but   are worried that the existing water supply and infrastructure are not adequate enough to meet the increase in demand entailed by the  . They said on Thursday that the government should first assess the demand for water and plan accordingly in order to avoid another Dwarka-like situation.

 Planned in the 1980s,   got regular water supply from Delhi Jal Board only in 2014-15. “We struggled for years to get the most basic amenity and had to make water an election issue to get the attention of the political class,” said Rejimon CK, president of Dwarka Forum, the federation of societies in the sub-city. “For decades, several residential societies had low occupancies due to the water problem.” Rohini and Narela are similar examples. Though DDA sold flats there in 2014, there still is no regular DJB water supply.
 
 “The city can’t keep on expanding without planning for basic resources,” pointed out KT Ravindran, urban designer and former chairman of Delhi Urban Arts Commission. “When I was DUAC chairman, we said no permission would be given for new projects if the water requirement was not addressed.”
 
 As it is, Delhi is struggling to meet even its current demand. For the past 10 days, there has been a crisis after Haryana reduced supply to the capital by 70 MGD (million gallons per day). “The present requirement is 1,100 MGD, but we don’t have sufficient water. We must undertake measures like augmenting existing surface and ground water resources and reviving water bodies,” advised Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor, Delhi University, and member of Dwarka Water Bodies Committee.
 
 Urban planner Sanjukkta Bhaduri, professor at School of Planning and Architecture, said it was essential for the government to first do a demand assessment before allowing new projects on the 40,000 acres of land to be pooled for residential, commercial and public/semi-public facilities. “There is already a backlog of services that has to be met. New development will only add to the pressure on existing services,” she said.
 
 DJB officials say that the chances of increasing Delhi’s raw water supply from the current 900 MGD are remote. “Supply can go up only if the Renuka dam is constructed. Under the 1994 agreement, Delhi is supposed to get 286 MGD from there,” said a senior DJB official. But the project in Sirmour in Himachal Pradesh is yet to see the light of day.
 
