The selling of the   to   is an eyebrow raiser. Why would anyone want to revive a car that is  . Clearly, Peugeot has no interest in the car in its physical form; what it is buying is the idea of the Ambassador, and the meaning that it can give it in today's context. 

 There is something about the Ambassador that lends itself to nostalgic affection. Unlike the more 'sensible' Fiat which offered a timid version of the modern, the Ambassador's relation with the modern was frosty. 
 
 It remained steadfastly true to its own sensibilities, largely because it refused to change or perhaps lacked the capability to do so. Barring minor modifications that were universally mocked at for their transparent lack of ambition, the Ambassador stood its ground for a long time. Its time was over once the era of the Maruti made its appearance.
 
 In its time, the Ambassador reigned supreme. It drove one with the laconic recalcitrance of the father while offering you the familiar comfort of a mother's lap. 
 
 One sprawled inside the car when not carrying one's entire brood of third cousins and their family friends to the railway station. The car was large, solid and rounded; nothing about its design acknowledged that it was an object designed to move. It was a car that clearly believed that it was better to waddle than to race and moved with stolid disregard for one's surroundings or one's intent. The Ambassador was status quo on wheels. It pointed nowhere and took us nowhere, which was where we wanted to be.
 
 The Ambassador was equanimity in a world where abruptness was the norm. Traffic on Indian roads might have been slow, but it was always sudden. The car itself was a constant source of uncertainty- it stalled, leaked oil, the brake fluid ran out at odd times; of course, it could also be repaired anywhere by virtually any mechanic and so life chugged along. 
 
 The ability to accommodate anything - people, merchandise, circumstances, recurring dents and scrapes, breakdowns - without showing any sign of strain made the car a natural in the Indian context.
 
 At the surface level, the Ambassador might offer an easy route to  , particularly in the West. It is a quirky riposte to the modern, and works at the level of an ironic joke. But this is the kind of appeal that works fast and dissipates even faster. 
 
 The idea of the Ambassador potentially holds allure today because it tells us that it is possible to completely disregard context. It exposes the fuss that cars make about moving from point A to point B as being unnecessary. 
 
 According to the Ambassador, one can be a placid cow, chewing cud while the world goes on around it, spinning out of control. The individual finds no reflection in the car, the fluidity of time and fashion mean nothing to it. It restores to the car the idea of affectionate and comfortable warmth; it feels like home should.
 
 Equanimity is the ornament of those that understand time. One doesn't have to hurry, the world doesn't need to be about oneself, one is secure in the knowledge that current events will pass however unlikely it seems today. When one is home, the world outside holds few terrors, at least for the time being. And while this idea has been born out of India and its realities, today it is unlikely that this idea will find much resonance in India for, as a country, we have traded placid wisdom for prickly ambition. 
 
 Even if Peugeot were to re-present the Ambassador in an acceptably contemporary form, the country today wants to see a more desirable face in the mirror. The individual wants to see himself and his future in the car he drives. The idea of the Ambassador becomes in effect a return to an earlier era, and there is little appetite for that today. Globally, on the other hand, it might be another story.
 
 The brand's attractiveness to a company like Peugeot lies in the fact that the Ambassador is above all, a brand. It stands for an idea that is located in a culture, and it signifies a belief in some values. It has a design ethos, and a point of view about mobility . 
 
 It is unlikely to offer the opportunity to build a huge global brand, but there is a truth that it speaks that could potentially create value for the French company. Shorn of the shoddy product that carried this name, it might just be that the underlying idea of the Ambassador has relevance in today's times.
 
