Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad was rocked by protests once again on Thursday after the administration made it mandatory for students to sign an affidavit agreeing to an exhaustive list of rules laid down by it. The move was seen by many as an attempt to clamp down on students’ freedom of expression.  Among other things, the affidavit categorically instructed students to restrict themselves from indulging in protests and demonstrations against rules and regulations enforced by the varsity. This comes a little over a year after the UoH campus exploded with a series of protests following the death of Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula.  Apart from demonstrations, the affidavit also limited the possession and consumption of alcohol or any banned substance, misuse or misrepresentation of the university name on social media platforms, invitation of media without written permission from authorities within the campus, among others such rules, “in respect of general discipline”.  The university’s move led to a fresh round of protests on campus with students condemning the decision and refusing to sign the affidavit at any cost. Students pointed out how the document was a clear violation of the University Grants Commission’s entitlements – 2013 and their rights. They burnt copies of the affidavit as they demanded that the university withdraw the same unconditionally.  “The affidavit clearly violates the UGC’s minimum students’ entitlement (sic), which states that students have the right to form their union and raise their concerns in a democratic manner. The affidavit is intimidating to students and must be withdrawn,” said Kuldeep Singh Nagi, president of UoH students’ union, who later submitted a representation to the controller of examination.  Despite authorities restricting students from ‘misusing or misrepresenting the university on social media platforms’, the affidavit was widely circulated. Soon, angry reactions poured in from every quarter. “The university is finding different ways to curb the students’ rights on campus. This is unjustified as authorities are afraid of voices of dissent on campus,” said a student, who has recently sought admission in UoH. What irked them more is the footnote on the affidavit that states that in case students violate any of the provisions, the university “reserves the right to take disciplinary action against me (the student) that is deemed fit extending up to cancellation of my admission”.  Despite repeated attempts made by TOI, UoH authorities were unavailable for comment on the matter. Calls were made to pro-vice-chancellor 2 Prakash Babu and pro vice-chancellor 1, B P Sanjay. While pro-VC 1 was out of reach, pro-VC 2 did not respond to the calls and messages made by TOI.  Times View  Restricting students from holding demonstrations on campus amounts to jeopardising their freedom of expression. While maintaining discipline within the premises is of utmost importance for any educational institution, curbing the constitutional rights of students is deeply disturbing. For as long as one can remember, university campuses have always been the epicentre of political and social uprising. UoH’s attempt at changing this tradition and snuffing out voices of dissent, cannot be appreciated 