  : The civic body seems to be a little slow in utilising funds allotted in the budget for environment-related projects. Out of the approved amount of Rs 121 crore, the officials could manage to spend only Rs 36 crore. 

 The   (KMC) on Monday submitted its report to Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regarding the expenses made on the environment-related capital works and its likely provision of funds in the budget for next financial year.
 
 It is mandatory for civic bodies across the state to utilise at least 25% of the total annual budget outlay for environment-related works. The KMC in its 2016-17 budget estimated that around 28% of the total budget, around Rs 121 crore, allocated for various projects starting from treatment of sewage, disposal of garbage and stop pollution of the water bodies.
 
 The KMC claims that since the bills for most of the works will be issued before the end of financial year the actual expenses will go up significantly. A senior KMC official, requesting anonymity, said, "The works such as treatment of sewage and garbage, developing drainage network, storm water network is a continuous process. Each of the projects will be completed in four to six years and therefore every year some portion of the funds will remain unutilised. However, at the end of the execution period, we will find that most of the approved funds will be spent. Also, the bills for some of the works to be issued are in the pipeline, while some works have already been started."
 
 For the next year, the Rs 72 crore funds approved of approved by the state government will be the major contributor for spending on environmental concerns. The KMC has issued tenders and is waiting for the bidders to bid for the works that include laying underground drainage pipeline along with works to treat the sewage from minor nullahs with the help of plants. For the next financial year, the amount of the funds estimated to be spent on the environmental issues will be around Rs 135 crore.
 
 "The figure for the next year will be more and most of the unutilised funds during the current year will get carry forwarded. We are depending mostly on government grants as we cannot afford to set aside the funds from the revenue generated through the taxes," said the official.
 
