Nagpur: Aiming to promote awareness regarding the current condition of   in the Vidarbha region, Vigyan Bharti Vidarbha Pradesh Mandal (VBVPM) organized a lecture on ‘Agricultural Development in Vidarbha and India’ at Persistence Auditorium, Gayatri Nagar on Monday. The event was conducted under the banner of ‘Confluence of Agriculture and Science’. Former chancellor of Kamdhenu University, Gujarat and Agriculture University, Gujarat, MC Varshneya was invited as the main speaker for the event. 

 Around 100 people including scientists, professors and students from agricultural and engineering universities attended the programme, which discussed on methods of agricultural advancements. MP Ajay Sancheti was invited as the guest of honour along with Anup Kumar, divisional commissioner and vice-chancellor of Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Science University. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar presided over the programme.
 
 Speaking about the lecture, Prashant Holay, president, VBVPM, said, “The programme is a part of a lecture series organized in accordance with the convergence of science and technology with nature. Through the series, we aim to introduce the concept of inter-relation of science and technology and how the same can be used for the benefit of mankind.”
 
 Providing a brief insight on methods to brush up the agriculture sector, Varshneya said, “Organic cultivation and integrated farming should be adopted to regulate the farming sphere. Dependence on innovative technologies must be promoted as compared to nature.”
 
 Talking about loopholes in the sector, Varshneya added, “India’s contribution to agriculture production is second in the entire world but the outcome is not as desired. Considering the current circumstances, holistic approach is needed to change the situation. For this, every parameter needs to be researched carefully and thereby enacted, starting from growing the crops or animal farming to marketing. The major role is to be played by the society and government should take up a secondary role.”
 
 Speaking on the role of government in the agricultural sector, Sancheti added, “The government’s prime focus should be on empowering farmers and policies must be formulated to achieve the same. Since agriculture is dependent primarily on rains in India, government needs to look into providing adequate facilities in the rural regions. Discouraging migration to urban areas can create wonders for the cultivation sector.”
 
 VBVPM Secretary Sanjay Wate said, “Agriculture has been an integral part of our country’s economy since centuries and even today the agricultural profession feeds millions of people in our country.”
 
 
