BENGALURU: Work on an   coming up on the playground of a government high school in the heart of the city -in defiance of directives from authorities and with the patronage of local strongmen — was stopped after despairing students shot off a complaint to the Lokayukta.

 The deputy director of public instruction and   were issued orders to immediately stop work on the temple on the campus of Netaji   Bose Government High School, 7th Main Road,  , on Thursday evening, hours after TOI brought the matter to the notice of Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty .
 
 “We've instructed the DDPI and BBMP executive engineer to stop the work with immediate effect,“ Lokayukta registrar HM Nanjundaswamy told TOI. Chickpet MLA RV De varaj, in whose juris diction the school falls, earlier said he found nothing wrong in a temple coming up on a school campus.
 
 With local leaders actively involved in its construction, no one was ready to stick their neck out on the issue, prompting the kids to write to the Lokayukta. Their letter, a copy of which is with TOI, said school staffers who questioned the construction were transferred. “Local representatives and higher officials have not responded to our plea. It's coming in the way of our morning prayers and physical activities,“ the students wrote.
 
 The school stands on an 8,000sqft plot donated by one Poornayya to the government.It is in the name of the adjacent Government Primary School. When TOI visited the high school on Thursday morning, no staffer was ready to go on record, saying higher authorities should be contacted. “We will be targeted if we raise our voice. I am not aware of any letter,“ said a teacher.
 
 “A peepal tree has been on the campus ever since I remember,“ said Rudresh, headmaster of the primary school.The tree, around which a platform (ashwathkatte) was built and idols of Naga Devathe and Shirdi Sai Baba appeared over the years, allegedly became the rallying point for temple advocates from the area.
 
 In the afternoon, Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty told TOI the letter hadn't reached his office yet.“We will act upon it as public interest is at stake. If the land belongs to the school, no temple can come up there,“ he said, hours before work stoppage order was issued.
 
 When construction began a year ago, the issue was brought to the government's notice. On December 16, 2016, the deputy director of public instruction wrote to the principal, stating that temple construction should not be allowed. Work stopped but resumed a month ago, and the foundation was laid.
 
 DDPI Ashwatthanarayana Gowda said he was not aware that construction work had resumed.
 
 
 
 
 Kudos to the young activists of a government school for pointing out a grave wrongdoing on their campus, and also asserting their rights.Essentially, it is a conflict between kids and adults, and the latter should realize that they are infringing students' rights to play and move freely on campus. Local politicians, no doubt, have votes in mind as they go about brazenly encroaching on a school ground for their selfish ends.While the Lokayukta has taken the first step in the right direction by stopping work, BBMP should act strictly by the rules and not be cowed by politicians and temple advocates.
 
