MUMBAI: The police have found   of a man at the northern end of a platform dragging the red suitcase in which the body of a boy was dumped at the   on Sunday . A closer shot of the person exiting the station has also been spotted. The images have been sent to the   (FSL) to get clearer pictures.

 Investigating officers have not found footage of the man entering the station platform, which has led them to suspect that he came across the tracks from the Sable Nagar slums. From his appearance, the 12-year-old victim seems to be a north Indian Hindu boy , said cops, adding that he could have been killed over family rivalry or after a kidnapping went wrong.
 
 The post-mortem report on Monday evening stated the cause of death as asphyxia indicating that he was throttled to death. The doctors are preserving the viscera for detailed chemical analysis. “The way the boy's body had been stuffed into the suitcase indicates that he was killed on Sunday itself,“ said a crime branch officer. On Sunday evening around 7.10pm, a passerby noticed the suitcase lying a few metres from the parcel office and informed the police.
 
 The Tilak Nagar police and crime branch, which are running parallel probes, are working on several other leads: the red Travelgo suitcase is brand new and cops are going around luggage shops asking if somebody bought such a bag recently; the boy was wearing navy blue trousers and a light blue shirt, which seems like a school uniform, with a tag of Milli Garments; and a printed saree and a bedsheet which were used to cover the body.
 
 The police have flashed the body's images across 93 police stations to find out if it correlates with any missing person case. The sleuths strongly suspect the boy is from the city since the time at which the suspect is seen in the station no outstation train arrived. “The focus of investigation is to first identify the deceased; once that is done, the probe will narrow down and we will be able to crack the case,“ said  , senior inspector, Tilak Nagar.
 
