NAGPUR: City women are in the throes of fear as a mysterious serial stabber is on the prowl targeting women at random without any apparent motive as the victims are left reeling under shock. 

 Two housewives, a first year student and another have been so far been targeted by a mysterious stabber between January 4 and 22 in south Nagpur. 
 
 With sudden spurt in street crimes, especially chain-snatching with almost two incidents on average daily, the latest incidents of unexplained stabbings have exposed the slack patrolling pattern of the city police. 
 
 In one of the first reported incident of stabbing, 58-year-old Manorama Godbole was attacked by an unidentified person who quickly fled from the scene after injuring the woman at   on January 19. As Manorama and her family were yet to find out about the attack, Hudkeshwar police too were clueless. As the investigating team have explored all possible aspects of the attack, there seems to be little headway in the case. 
 
 Premlata Bhoyar was also stabbed near Mahakalkar Hall, Dattatreya Nagar by an unidentified biker on January 19. The attack on Premlata happened shortly after Manorama was assaulted. The two incidents happened in close proximity. 
 
 While none of the women were robbed or harassed, the stabber left them bloodied and mentally shattered.
 
 As the cops remained aloof, first-year-student Juli Hedau was stabbed near Dattatreya Nagar’s NIT garden in the evening on January 22. Juli, who was struck on the right shoulder, had been strolling after dinner when the attack had taken place. 
 
 The attacker, who was on a scooter, had fled the spot after the assault. The science stream student, who is still reeling under threat, sustained mental shock too by the unprovoked attack.
 
 The incidents started on January 4. However, the Sakkardara police tried to ignore them. 
 
 A woman was stabbed by a bike-borne person near Gillurkar Hospital. But Sakkardara police registered the offence on a later date. 
 
 Senior PI   of Sakkardara police station said squads have been formed to nab the culprit.
 
 Crime branch has also started a probe. 
 
