NASHIK: Maharashtra Rajya Drkasha Bagayatdar Sangh ( ), an association of grape growers in the state, on Friday urged   to focus more on quality grapes than on quantity. 

 It has also requested grape farmers to grow new varieties to tap markets across the globe. Nashik district exported 1.21 lakh tonne of grapes during the 2016-17 grape season (Dec-April), as against 1.08 lakh tonne during the previous grape season in 2015-16.
 
 But grape prices declined in European and domestic markets due to rise in supply of grapes as compared to the demand. 
 
 Ashok Gaikwad, past president of MRDBS, said the new generation of farmers are focusing on producing large quantity and size that creates pressure on plants and affect the quality of grapes.
 
 "The sugar developing process is affected in fruit due to greater focus on have large quantity and size. However, the climate was also not good and the plant growth process was delayed by 15 days more due to cold that affected the quality of fruit," he added.
 
 The quality of grapes was the major reason that led to crash in grape prices. Farmers sold grapes at Rs 10 per kg in domestic market due to inferior quality, while others sold it at Rs 50 per kg at the same time due to good quality.
 
 There is need to do proper packaging while exporting it to other countries, stressed Gaikwad. He added "The quality of the fruit suffers if farmers undertake packaging of 20 kg of grapes. Actually, they should focus on packaging in five-eight kg of grapes."
 
 Vilas Shinde, director of   farmer producer group, said, "This year, there had been excessive supply of grapes in European countries that led to crash in grape prices. Around 90% of grapes produced in the country are of   seedless variety. Hence, farmers need to focus on new colourful grape varieties to capture the grape export market. There is also need to focus on quality grapes."
 
 In 2009-10 grape season, European countries had rejected consignments of grapes from India on the ground of presence of pesticides. They had detected chlormequat chloride component, a plant growth regulator in excess of the prescribed maximum residue level for table grapes. Around 85 grape-growers in the state had incurred losses worth Rs 150 crore as their consignments of grapes were rejected.
 
