PUNE: The Union government’s proposal to set up an independent board for   (ITIs) will help in improving quality of these institutes, benefitting about 1.25 lakh students in Maharashtra alone.

 The board will help the students passing out of ITIs get Class X and XII certificates equivalent to what boards like   give. If students get these certificates, they will also be able to pursue higher education, which will open more avenues for them, officials and principals of ITIs in Pune said.
 
 There are 882 ITIs in Maharashtra with a total intake of over 1.25 lakh students. In Pune division alone, there are 61 government ITIs and about 130 private ITIs with a total intake of 35,000 students. The Pune division includes Pune, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Solapur.
 
 C A Ninale, joint director, Pune division, said the government’s proposal was a long-pending demand from the students. “Most of our courses need a minimum qualification of standard X. The courses are of one-or two-year duration. After completing the course, students used to get a certificate. However, if these students wanted to pursue higher education that required Std XII certificate, they were not accepted by any university,” Ninale said.
 
 He said the process of conducting the exam will not be tough as entrance exam for all ITIs are already being held across the country uniformly. “Once there is a board, it will help improve the quality of education as well as the institutes since we will be competing with boards like CBSE then. Finally, more staff may also be sanctioned and all the academic progress will be much more streamlined as in regular courses,” Ninale said.
 
 Prakash Sayagaonkar, principal of government   Aundh, said with the improvement in quality, the ITI students will have a better shot at jobs. “If a student completes ITI and then wishes to pursue a BSc course in electronics or related subject, this will increase his/her employability,” Sayagaonkar said.
 
 He said, “Perhaps in the future, languages or such subjects will also be added. If this happens, there will be a need to increase the staff.” ITI Aundh runs about 34 courses of both one-and two-year duration.
 
 A Kakade, retired principal, ITI Aundh, said establishment of the board will benefit only 2-3% of students. “ITI is generally chosen by students belonging to economically weaker sections of the society. All they want is a job at the end of their course. With a board coming in, there may be more emphasis on other subjects like language that doesn’t serve the purpose of ITI. Companies pick up ITI students because they want students who are good with the technical part and know how to work in a team. Lastly, if a student was interested in pursuing higher education, he would never take up ITI in the first place.”
 
 Kakade said, “I hope they put out a draft of the new curriculum and board so that people can give their suggestions on how to make it student friendly.”
 
