CHENNAI: Tour operators in the state are concerned about the impact of the Goods and Services Tax ( ) on the hospitality industry, with rooms in star hotels set to bear an additional tax of 28%. 

 Star hotels already charge a higher tariff for rooms than those in Southeast Asian destinations. The increase in charges could lead to premium travellers from abroad skipping destinations in the south after visiting the   golden triangle. While budget travellers would still visit destinations in the south, this category of tourists does not bring much revenue for a tourist destination.
 
 Travel and tour operators feel that India’s rank in foreign tourist arrivals which had improved from 40 to 24 for 2015, as per the revised rankings released by UNWTO in March 2017, might take a beating as other destinations like Sri Lanka, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore would be cheaper for travellers including those coming under the MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) category. 
 
 South India Hotels and Restaurants Association (SIHRA) honorary secretary T Nataraajan said, "Rooms in all five star hotels and those with a tariff of more than Rs 5000 per day attract 28% under GST. It is going to seriously hurt us because international tourists will prefer Southeast Asian destinations as room tariff covers about 40% of a tourist expenditure." 
 
 He also expressed concern over the proposal to levy 28% tax on restaurants operating in five star hotels. “This could end up in restaurants being shut down in five star category hotels, which may serve only for the guest (occupants),” he added.
 
 M K Ajith Kumar, CEO of Asia Pacific Tours, said, “Foreign tourists who are backpackers may not be affected because they will be able to stay at cheaper rooms which are out of the ambit of the new tax.” Yatra.com chief operating officer Sharat Dhall echoed these sentiments, saying, “Budget hotels for the aam admi have been kept insulated from any increases in tariffs, though the luxury segment might see an increase due to the GST rates announced.”
 
 Nataraajan further said that the GST proposals will promote the unorganised sector in the hospitality industry. Noting that service apartments and guest houses would be cheaper when compared to hotel rooms, he said, “There is a danger of hotels becoming destinations only for corporate visitors.”
 
 Tamil Nadu Hotels Association M Venkada Subbu said that the prices in standalone restaurants would increase substantially. Restaurants with a turnover of less than Rs. 50 lakhs will see increase in taxes in GST regime to 5% and the rest will have to charge 12%, he said. “For the customers, a thali meal priced at Rs 100 will cost Rs. 112 in non-AC restaurants and Rs.6 more in air conditioned eateries," he said.
 
 However, Dhall also expressed a ray of optimism. “Overall this seems like a good move for the sector and should help the growth momentum continue. Economy airfares will get marginally cheaper which should drive continued passenger growth in the air market, while business class will see a moderate increase.”
 
