AHMEDABAD: A group of ENT specialists in the city has begun a campaign to collect old and discarded hearing aid machines. After repairs, the group gives them free of cost to needy and poor children.

 The group has also formed the Tara Foundation and has taken up a drive to have young children scanned for hearing defects right at birth, and to make efforts that those who have hearing problems start using machines from the age of two. 
 
 Dr Neeraj Suri, a cochlear implant surgeon with   Civil Hospital says, "Tara foundation is now scanning newborns at Gandhinagar, Bhuj, Gandhidham, Kalol, Godhra, Patan and Siddhpur civil and even at the 10 Neonatal Intensive care units including that in Ahmedabad."
 
 Suri said, "We have found from experience that 5 out of every 1,000 children born and admitted in NICU were born with hearing disorders, while the same in case of normal deliveries was 2 out of every 1,000 newborns."
 
 Suri said "a child cannot develop speech and language with such disorder. Hence, the aim is to recognize a deaf child before the age of one year, as the babies start hearing between one and three." "Unfortunately, hearing loss is often not detected until a child grows up to four years. The number of children suffering from hearing disorders is especially high in rural areas due to lack of awareness," he added
 
  who is taking care of the hearing aid bank said the mission of the trust is a deafness-free new generation. Their mission is to enable hearing impaired children to listen and speak like their friends who do not have any such issue. "Tara Foundation aims to give cochlear implants and other hearing aids and even promote education and social awareness to battle deafness," said Patel.
 
 Amit Anand, who is also in-charge of the hearing aid bank, says the bank is a new beginning for hearing-impaired children. Many children suffer from hearing impairment due to a variety of reasons. The foundation had taken up a new initiative to address the need of these children. 
 
 "Many people have hearing aids which are out of order and are not used due to spare parts problem, wires and batteries. The foundation collects such hearing aids, repair and recalibrate them. And offer such calibrated hearing aids with proper services to needy children," said Anand.
 
