BENGALURU: It was a burst of festivities at Chamarajpet on Saturday as the locality, the first planned enclave of Bengaluru, turned 125. 

 The area’s five main roads and nine cross roads were all decked up for the celebrations. The day began with over 3,000 people taking part in a procession from the west-end of the locality, near TR Mills, to the Fort High School grounds, covering a distance of 1.6km in four hours. Young ones skating in fabulous formations, people dancing to the rhythm of drums, clowns on stilts and characters from Hindu mythology -- this slice of old Bengaluru donned a vibrant new look on its special day. 
 
 Srinivas Murthy, 71, a former corporator from Chamarajpet and the man behind the jamboree and the two-day extravaganza reminisced about the good-old times. “I was born here and have lived my entire life here. I have seen Chamarajpet grow from a Brahmin-dominated locality to neighbourhood that’s now home to many communities from outside Karnataka,” he said.
 
 Nagamani K, also a resident, sat with her granddaughter under a shamiana for a glimpse of the much-talked-about procession. “This entire celebration was being planned for 6-7 months. There was so much buzz about it. We feel so proud to be celebrating our locality’s 125th birthday,” she said.
 
 “We have seen it grow from an empty, but a well-planned locality to an area which is self-sufficient today. I love Chamarajpet even if it’s a little too crowded today,” she added.
 
 Maharani Pramoda Devi along with Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of the Mysuru royal family and his wife Trishika Kumari Devi inaugurated the grand celebrations. Also present were Union minister Ananth Kumar and city mayor G Padmavathi. “Chamarajpet was established by Chamarajendra Wadiyar X in 1892. At that time, for a locality to have such lavish roads, wide footpaths, greenery all around and temples at every main road was unthinkable. These very features set Chamarajpet apart from the rest of the city even today,” explained 81-year-old K Narasimha Rau, also a resident. 
 
 “Be it Vanivilas Hospital, Fort High School or Bangalore Medical College, Chamarajpet is home to many such famous institutions,” said Murthy.
 
 Continuing with the celebrations, Sunday will see a panel discussion and talks on the theme, ‘Chamarajpet then and now’. A number of achievers, who are also residents from the locality, will be awarded on the occasion. 
 
 
 
 
 In 1881, Chamarajendra Wadiyar X launched the People Representative Assembly in Mysuru, and Chamarajpet was its first modern extension. Today, it’s established that he’s indeed the founder of democracy within the state. We are honoured by this glory.
 
 Maharani Pramoda Devi 
 
 
