Erring electoral registration officers (ERO) may be suspended or face a departmental inquiry under the Maharashtra Civil Service Rules, if there are any complaints from people about their names not appearing in the compiled voters’ lists, the state   has said. 

 The commission has taken a written ‘statement of responsibility’ from the EROs on the preparedness ahead of voting for the elections in 10 municipal corporations and 25 zilla parishads in February in the state. 
 
 State election commission officials said it is necessary for EROs to take cognizance of each application for addition, deletion or correction of voters’ names or other details as there have been several cases in the past which led to chaos on voting day when people were unable to vote as their names were missing.
 
 State election commissioner JS Saharia told TOI that it was necessary to take due care as several issues concerning voters’ lists came up during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. “We have told the EROs to submit a written statement to the district collectors that all care was taken while getting the electoral rolls ready and that addition or deletion of voters’ names or effecting changes in addresses was done after due checks with the voters themselves. We wanted a clean roll and the respective divisional commissioners, district collectors and municipal commissioners were told to take up the responsibility and get the assurance from the EROs,” Saharia said.
 
 The Election Commission Of India had launched the revision of electoral roll across the country from September 16 to October 21, 2016, considering January 1, 2017 as the qualifying date for a new voter. The revised list was published on January 5. The draft roll was opened for corrections like of switching names from one panel to another.
 
 After the less-than-encouraging turnout of 50.92% in the 2012 civic elections, the state election commissioned had planned several measures to improve the turnout to 70% this time around. 
 
 The SEC had commissioned a study by the Gokhale Insititute of Politics and Economics, which found that voters’ names missing from electoral rolls was the top reason for citizens not casting their vote.
 
