CHENNAI: The   government is set to bring more housing projects under the purview of the   (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) by reducing the number of units covered in the ambitious legislation. While the central act covers projects with nine or more units, those with five or more units constructed beyond an area of 500 square metres would come under RERA in the state.

 Official sources familiar with the development told TOI that the move is being taken as buildings with five or more units were likely to have commercial interests.“Projects with four units within a plot size of 500 square metres are largely meant for self-consumption. But those beyond that are likely to be for   (sale),“ an official said. 
 
 The move would   by enhancing ac countability , transparency and efficiency in the real estate sector. Proposed projects should be registered by developers with the real estate regulatory authority and promoters need to deposit 70% of the funds collected from buyers in a separate bank account.
 
 The draft Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2016, was released in January this year. Though the act has been rolled out in many states across the country , it is yet to come into force in Tamil Nadu as the state government has not notified the draft rules for the act.
 
 After notification, promoters of all ongoing projects, which have not received completion certificates, must make an application to the real estate authority . Pointing out that the draft rules regarding ongoing projects are unlikely to be reviewed, an official source said that all housing projects which have not obtained completion certificates would be on the radar of the real estate regulatory authority.
 
 However, it has excluded projects in the event that all development work has been completed and application or intimation letter has been submitted to the competent authority for obtaining completion certificate, services have been handed over to the local authority for maintenance, and common areas and facilities given to the   association for main tenance.
 
 Similarly , if a project has been conceived to be developed in phases and the plans for the initial phase are approved by the planning authority prior to the notification of the draft rules, the requirement of obtaining consent from two-thirds of existing allottees is exempted for any addition, revision or modification of plans for subsequent phases of development, provided the scheme of developing the project in a phased manner has been agreed upon by the allottee and promoter in the agreements executed between them.
 
 Asked about the delay in notifying the rules, official sources said that steps are being taken to get the clearance from the government so that the act is implemented soon.
 
