From March onwards, there may be no   on any road or footpath in Mumbai, except for a few   and  , as the state government has lifted its stay on a policy the BMC prepared two years ago. The move came just a week before the civic   kicks in on January 11.

 The policy was declared on January 2, 2015, after it was passed by the Sena-BJP-dominated BMC general body , though it met stiff resistance from all opposition parties. It was put on hold by the chief minister after south Mumbai residents, who were to be affected the most by the differential rates [around Rs 2,000 a month for night parking in A ward (Colaba-Churchgate)] raised a stink.
 
 “The process for implementation has already begun, but owing to the poll code of conduct we will be able to publish advertisements calling bids only after the BMC election is over,“ said a senior civic official. The poll's results are scheduled to be declared on February 23.
 
 “Our attempt is to implement the policy just as it was,“ the official said. To begin with, tenders would be floated calling for contractors for 92 on-street and 12 off-street parking lots. The city has been di vided into three categories--A, B and C--based largely on footfall, for applying differential parking rates. The highest rates are for the most crowded places.For instance, it will cost Rs 60 per hour to park a car at Kala Ghoda (category A) but a third of that near Shoppers Stop on Ghatkopar-Mahul Road (category C).
 
 Parking will be free at public places like Girgaum and Juhu Chowpatty , and the Gateway to boost tourism. All rates will be different on Sunday and public holidays. In the policy's residential scheme, a car can be parked on the road from 8pm to 8am (night-time) for monthly charges varying from Rs 1,980 to Rs 660 as per the category . The day-time charges will be in the range of Rs 3,960-1,320.Only one slot will be available per car owner and housing societies will have to get in touch with their local ward office to know the particulars.
 
 People, particularly living in south Mumbai, are annoyed at the development. Atul Kumar, a member of the Nariman Point-Churchgate Citizens Association (NPCCA) said south Mumbai's parking problem is unique and the BMC policy is not the solution. “Most buildings in SoBo were built in the 1950s and did not come with parking lots (making residents park outside housing societies). So, a policy like the present one cannot be applied across the city.“
 
 Opposition parties are unhappy . Samajwadi Party leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh called the policy a move by a bad administration. “If the policy had to be brought back without any changes, what was the point of the stay? The fact that there was a stay meant that the government did feel there were loopholes in the policy . While Mumbai does need a parking policy , one with hefty charges is in no way in the interests of Mumbaikars.“
 
 Bandra corporator and civic standing committee mem ber Asif Zakaria said it looks like the government's interim stay was only to appease worried citizens. “This further affirms that the BJP and Sena are only trying to fool people.“
 
 A senior civic official said the municipal administration had made repeated representations to the state government to lift the stay and municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta too had written to the government on the matter.
 
 
 
 
 Asking Mumbaikars who have no space to park their cars in buildings and societies which were built decades ago without any space for vehicles is patently unfair. There was no immediate need for the state government to lift the stay on the BMC-approved move, and it should have definitely taken note of protests by South Mumbai residents. Pay-for-park is an ideal concept but it should be applied fairly, not randomly without any consideration for ground realities.
 
