Over the past year, the women of   have been in the news for their creative pursuits as well. 

 We saw them display their artistic talents during the Varayude Penma workshop at Kochi-Muziris Biennale and have witnessed their street plays and dramas at other times. Now, they are gearing up to be part of something bigger – an all-women literary fest, for the first time in the State.
 Rijesh V S, one of the officials of the initiative, says, “The programme will be held at Kozhikode from August 18, and will have about 200 participants from all over the State. They will showcase their talents in three events – story writing, poetry writing and theatre.”
 
 The fest is not just about a few women just penning stories and poetry, or staging skits or dramas, and winning prizes. Priya E, a member of the organising committee, says, “A gathering of the women who took part in the Varayude Penma workshop will also be organised by Lalithakala Akademi, for capacity building. Moreover, an exhibition of their works will also be held at the event.”
 
 As for those interested in theatre, the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi is all set to teach them different forms of the performing art, as well. “Kudumbashree already has an initiative called Rangashree, a community theatre group, which works in association with the Sangeetha Nataka Akademi. Alongside a performance of Rangashree, the participants are also planning to stage group performances, individual skits and the like. We also are planning a lot more events,” Priya explains. Sahitya Akademi will work with those who are at the event to enhance their writing skills.
 
 Annie Saly from Kochi, who took part in the Varayude Penma camp, says the upcoming artistes at Kumdumbashree are thoroughly excited to be at Kozhikode. “The Biennale camp in itself had boosted the confidence of the participants, who had all ignored their talents post marriage. But now, I have started sketching a lot more, thanks to the session. We are not just interested in showcasing our talent, but also in how we can make our work stand out from the rest!”
 
