NAGPUR: In a major policy decision, the   department (SFD) has been integrated with Maharashtra forest department (MFD) from April 1, with entire administrative control with the principal chief conservator of forests (HoFF).

 All six circle offices of SFD in the state, headed by a conservator of forest (CF) rank officer, have been brought under the administrative control of 11 territorial circles headed by chief conservators of forests (CCFs).
 
 The posts of deputy directors, assistant directors,   officers, assistant plantation officers and plantation kotwals prevalent in SFD have been rechristened as DFOs, ACFs, RFOs, round officers and forest guards respectively, unlike in territorial and wildlife wings.
 
 Till now, the SFD was headed by PCCF rank officer with headquarters in Pune. However, though SFD would continue to be headed by PCCF, he would be under the control of HoFF based at Nagpur. All proposals will be rerouted to the government through HoFF.
 
 This is a major policy move after 1982, when the social forestry directorate was set up. From 1982-87, it was social forestry and horticulture department. From 1988-92, it was under revenue and forest, and from 1992-2014, SFD was put under rural development and water conservation department. Now, it has completely been brought under the forest department.
 
 The merger of SFD with MFD was recommended by ex-chief secretary Arun Bongirwar committee on December 31, 2013, to strengthen SFD. The state had again constituted a committee under PCCF about how to go about the merger. PCCF has suggested overhaul of social forestry department.
 
 The government’s agenda of 100 crore plantations in five years is the main concern. “As forest land is limited, SFD will now be entrusted with plantations on forestry and non-forestry land. Now, like a single window scheme, all information about SFD will be available with forest   only,” said officials.
 
 Even the confidential reports of SFD officials will be written by CCFs while CF will be reviewing officers and social forestry PCCF will be accepting authority. Presently, all the offices of social forestry are in rental premises. The territorial CCFs have been asked to adjust SFD offices where space is available in their premises.
 
 In a move that would make SFD postings “lucrative”, the government is also considering handing over the job of granting permissions under Maharashtra Felling of Trees (Regulation) Act 1964 to private parties and farmers to SFD. Till now, this job was entrusted to RFOs and there was a lot at stake at these postings.
 
