With workshop activities cropping up dime-a-dozen, it's no longer just about attending a pottery class. These activities are now getting specific - for instance, a foodie will perhaps decide to learn something as specific as making pasta at home or sushi. Says Regan Rodricks, whose company organises such activities, "Pottery is like cricket in India, it's popular and much written about. But people are also looking out for more novel experiences like making sushi in a professional way or  ." 

 That city-goers are in a mood to experiment can be gauged from the unusual workshops lined up for the coming month. Let's take a look at some of them...
 
  
  
 
 
 The adventurous can challenge themselves to some Rope mallakhamb. Preeti Saha from Bengaluru, who organises this workshop in Mumbai once every month, informs "We have parents along with their children come for this workshop. It's fun and quite thrilling. There is an instructor who guides you on how to climb the rope and balance yourself, while turning yourself upside down." 
 
 
 
 There's no need to fret if you have the green finger, but no place to grow your favourite vegetables... A 3-hour workshop with an expert urban gardener will help you convert the space near the window into a kitchen garden. They'll analyse your home and by the end of the class, you'll understand sunlight, crop planning, what to grow and in what. It's a hands-on workshop, which will require you to deal wit h handle organic compost and coco peat.
 
 
 
 Quilling is an ancient paper art, where you create a showpiece or jewellery out of colourful strips of coiled paper. With two hours of quilling workshop, you will either take it further as a hobby or take it up as a profession.
 
  
  
 
 
 For those who associate mosaic art with tiles, a 3-hour workshop of glass mosaic art will make you unlearn all you thought you knew about the art. A piece of art made from small pieces of coloured glass, glass mosaic art is something to flaunt once you've mastered it. And you get to learn it from no less than a professional designer.
 
 
 
 If the season sales aren't helping you find your ideal junk jewellery, it's probably time for you to make your own! You can choose the colours, pattern and make a bangle or a earring for yourself. The instructor will train you on how to use the silk thread to make a piece of jewellery for yourself. 
  
  
 
 
 Though a lengthy process and a one which has different technicalities involved in it, you can make your own blue sari or dupatta. The focus of this workshop is making you learn the art of folding, binding, knotting, twisting and pleating along with dying the cloth with Indigo crystals. This workshop is divided into two days with 2 sessions of five hours each. However, this workshop is not for those below 15 years. 
 
 
 Sushi is not just topping the exotic food chart in India, but also when it comes to learning it. "It is definitely the most popular workshop in Mumbai. I guess because making sushi is an art, which cannot be learnt from cookery books. It has unique ingredients, is expensive and requires special skill sets. it is also pretty to look at," says Rodricks, adding, "It is one dish that is also popular with vegetarians, so even they would like to learn to make it." By the end of a two-hour workshops, you'll learn to create beautiful sushi rolls.
 
 
