PUNE: Stressing that split captaincy doesn't work in the Indian set-up,   said that he was waiting for the right time to quit limited-overs captaincy. “My views won't change because I have quit Test cricket. I was waiting for the right time. I wanted Virat to ease into the Test format. Limited-overs format is not a big challenge for a captain.”

 Recalling the chain of events leading up to his decision, Dhoni revealed he had informed the   well in advance about his decision. He said it had been playing on his mind ever since he quit Test captaincy during the tour of Australia in 2014.
 
 Dhoni expressed confidence that despite the change of guard in limited-overs captaincy, the working relationship between him and new captain   won't suffer since they shared a good rapport. “My job is to assist him whenever needed. If I go to him with 100 ideas, he is comfortable in saying no to all of them. That's his job, to pick and choose what really he is convinced about. That kind of relationship is very important,” he told the media before the Indian team's practice session at the Gahunje stadium on Friday.
 
 “I shouldn't feel my suggestions have to be accepted, and he should not feel a certain suggestion should be accepted because it is coming from me. Ultimately, he has to take the responsibility for the decisions taken on the field.”
 
 India play England in the first of three day-night ODIs here on Sunday.
 
 Dhoni said though he had relinquished Indian captaincy from all three formats, he still had a key role to play as the wicketkeeper. “Field positioning is a vital part of captaincy. And the wicketkeeper is in a better position to understand the conditions, bounce of the wicket and line of attack of the bowlers and I will ensure that the flow of information is released to the captain. I will ensure that this flow is simple and not confusing. I will give as many suggestions as required,” said Dhoni, adding, “The first few games will help settle things.”
 
 Dhoni said he doesn't regret anything in life. “What has happened has happened. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. It is satisfying to see that the juniors that came in during the transition period after the senior's retirement are still in the team and doing well.”
 
 On a question whether he will bat more freely now, Dhoni said he would continue to bat in the interest of the team. “My style will entirely depend on my batting slot and situation. Cricket is mental game. When it comes to their batting positions, individuals can be quite rigid in their heads. But I needed to explore the possibility of swapping batting slots to give more power to the team and judge if it works or not.”
 
 Dhoni also praised Kohli for his attitude and hunger. “Virat always wanted to improve. He wanted to do well in those games. And that is the reason why he is so successful right now. If he scores a 60 or 70, he's somebody who wanted to score a 100. He wanted to be there at the crease when India were chasing. That was the key factor for me and right from the start, we have interacted a lot. He has improvised his cricket and his thinking. With more responsibility on him, he'll keep getting better.”
 
