INDORE:   is all set to release the results of over 20 lakh students who appeared for Class 10 and 12 exams this year.

 The results will be declared at 10 am on May 12. For the first time, the board will be releasing the results of both classes on the same date. Previously the results were declared on different days with a gap of at least four to five days.
 
 But this year the board officials said that they were prepared to release the results on the same day so they decided to go ahead. 
 
 “We have the capability to manage both the results on the same day so there was no need to waste another day,” said S R Mohanty MPBSE chairman.
 
 Amidst various changes going on in the education department and MPBSE, thousands of teachers from the state have managed to complete the evaluation work on time till April 30.
 
 “People have worked really hard for this and a lot of careful planning was done for the same. Everyone has worked more compared to the previous years to make this plan possible,” added Mohanty. 
 
 This year the board mark sheets will consist of a unique Quick Response (QR) code becoming the first state board to do this in the country. 
 
 It will help the students access their mark sheets and school documents with a mobile app instead of carrying the original documents everywhere.
 
 “With QR codes students don’t need to carry original mark sheets everywhere instead they can carry duplicate documents and share their QR codes wherever necessary,” said Mohanty. 
 
 Verification of the original documents will be done by scanning the QR code printed on the duplicate marks sheets. The form of verification can be used by educational institutions and employers to verify an applicant's academic records.
 
 The certificates downloaded through the repository can be verified using the DigiLocker mobile app by scanning a QR code printed on it.
 
 The chairman also said that as there was a less number of cheating cases, the process went smoothly.
 
  “Last year there were about 6000 mass cheating cases but this year the number has reduced to around 2000 cases,” added Mohanty. 
 
 The results will be uploaded on the website a few hours before the CM announces the toppers. 
 
