GURUGRAM: Three people were booked for allegedly   at a   and stealing Rs 31,000 from there on Saturday night. The trio, according to the management of the bar, attacked the cashier and a bouncer before fleeing the bar with the stolen money.

 Dayakishan, the cashier of   in   on MG Road, said the three men came to the bar late on Saturday and asked for beers. Alleging the three had come to the bar earlier and left without paying for drinks and food, Dayakrishan stopped them from ordering beers.
 
 He then asked the three to pay up first before ordering drinks and food. Enraged at this, the accused thrashed the cashier, and bouncer Praveen who intervened in the matter. The assailants during the altercation allegedly stole Rs 31,000 from Dayakishan’s pocket.
 
 Around 12.50am on Sunday, when bouncer Praveen was standing at the rear entrance of the bar, the three came back and allegedly thrashed him again. One of the three also brandished a pistol and threatened to kill him next time if he did not allow them to enter the bar. When the three were exiting the mall, a PCR van reached the spot. Seeing the PCR van, the trio fled the mall immediately.
 
 The men had apparently also had visited the bar on June 21 night and left without paying the bill. They have been identified as Shekhar, Nitish and Sundar, who live in Kadarpur village. Sources said the brawl was caught on CCTV, and the footage was handed over to police for investigation.
 
 A case was registered against the three under sections 379A (snatching), 506(criminal intimidation), 34(common intent), and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. 
 
 Anil Sharma, the bar owner, said even though he had gone to the police station the same night, cops didn't not register a case. He went to the station the next day and met SHO, who readily agreed to file an FIR.
 
 “They have not come to the pub so far. Also, a medical examination of the victims has not been carried out yet,” Sharma said. A month ago, the men were also involved in another pub brawl in the same mall.
 
 Investigating officer ASI Surender said an FIR was registered in the case on Sunday, but the investigation is yet to commence as he was busy on the CM duty on Monday. He said no arrest had been made so far. 
 
 
