BAGALKOT: The fast-depleting reserves of the  , which flows through a large part of   and Vijayapura districts, have not only resulted in a drinking water problem in the two districts, but the situation has also made life difficult for animals. Three crocodile deaths have been reported at Bilagi taluk of Bagalkot district in the past 15 days. 

  Moreover, what has added to villagers' anxiety is that the reptiles are also increasingly venturing out of the river - nine crocodiles have been rescued at Bilagi taluk in the last two weeks in search of food and water. A crocodile measuring 14ft in length, and weighing 365kg was found dead at Giragav village in Bilagi on Saturday. 
 
  On the other hand, people of Gudadinni village found a 10ft-long crocodile in their midst on Saturday and immediately alerted forest department officials, who captured the reptile, which was subsequently released into the backwaters of Almatti Dam. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Forest officer HB Loni said, "It would be advisable to set up a crocodile park in the area to ensure protection of marine animals."
 
  "With the river drying up, many crocodiles are coming out of the water. Crocodiles may also hide in sugarcane fields," said Suresh, a resident of Gudadinni village. 
 
  
  
 
  A farmer escaped with injuries on his legs, after he was attacked by a crocodile at Bannidinni village in Bagalkot on the banks of Ghattaprabha River on Sunday. 
 
 Hanamanth Siddappa Katageri went to the banks of Ghattaprabha along with his cattle, when a crocodile lunged at him. However, despite the suddenness of the attack, Katageri screamed for help. A group of youngsters responded to his cry, and managed to rescue Katageri from the reptile. Katageri, however, sustained injuries on both legs.
 
 One of the youngsters who rushed to rescue the farmer, too, had a close brush with the crocodile. When the crocodile tried to attack him, he grabbed a cattle rope and escaped.
 
 Katageri has been admitted to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment.
 
 
