CHENNAI: It's a do-or-die battle for AIADMK deputy general secretary   in Jayalalithaa's erstwhile   that faces bypoll on April 12. A byelection should normally be a cakewalk for the party in power, but R K Nagar is no longer an AIADMK pocket borough and Dinakaran's position is shaky.

 This byelection has all indications of a possible  , putting the political future of Dinakaran at stake.No other political leader has perhaps faced so much opposition from the general public as well as his or her own cadres in an election in recent times. He faces multiple challenges to his leadership.
 
 The credibility of the Sasikala clan, even among the  , is rather low as her conviction in a disproportionate assets case is fresh in the minds of people.Moreover, Dinakaran is not Jayalalithaa's choice to lead the party, rather, he was expelled by her. Also, the doubts raised over the death of Jayalalithaa refuse to die down.
 
 “Dinakaran, having returned to active politics after a five-year forced hibernation, could not have stayed away from election either, for, that would have been construed as avoiding the electorate out of fear of defeat,“ said analyst  .
 
 The new AIADMK leadership is still battling for the Election Commission's recognition and as on date there is no guarantee that the EC would allot the `two-leaves' symbol to TTV.
 
 The electorate, despite Dinakaran maintaining that he is not in race for the CM post, may have doubts about his assertion. He could press for a change of guard at Fort St. George if he wins in R K Nagar.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, unlike O Panneerselvam, could prove to be a tough customer for TTV.
 
 There are three claimants ­TTV , OPS faction and Deepa to the AIADMK vote share in a place where Jayalalithaa's margin dropped to 39,545 votes (from 1.5 lakh votes) in the last general election. TTV will have a tough time in keeping his own flock together as there are rumblings in the ministry over his high-handed behavior, said a senior party functionary. He faces stiff opposition from within Sasikala's family as well, because he has been stonewalling the efforts of other family members to get back into the AIADMK.
 
 Meanwhile, Dinakaran sent across a wrong signal on Wednesday by calling upon all parties other than the DMK to support him. “His specific mention of the BJP in this regard will not be taken kindly by the minorities in R K Nagar,“ said M Kasinathan, a political analyst.
 
 The prevailing anti-incumbency factor may help the DMK increase its vote share by 5-10% from last year's 30%.A three-way split in AIADMK votes should help it too. If anything, the party's decision not to field a high profile candidate could be a spoiler.
 
