MUMBAI: A sessions   on Saturday upheld the conviction and one-year sentence of a 60-year-old man who tried to extort money from a   film production executive by posing as an income tax   and threatening a raid. 

 The sessions court said that the lower court had taken a lenient view and awarded a moderate sentence. 
 
 Khurshid Ansari, who had filed an appeal against his conviction by a lower court in 2014, had objected to being found guilty under Indian Penal Code section 385 (putting person in fear of   to commit extortion). Stating that the word ‘injury’ had a wide meaning under the Indian Penal Code, the court observed, “The   raid means lowering prestige of a person in the eyes of society. Taking into consideration effect of such threats, the trial court committed no wrong in applying section 385 of the IPC.” 
 
 The accused was also convicted under Indian Penal Code section 170 (impersonating a public servant). 
 
 The court observed that the case fell under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, an aspect which the investigating officer had ignored during investigations. 
 
 The victim had lodged a complaint with Mahim police on June 25, 2005. He told the police that he had purchased two shops in the building in which he was residing along with his family. The shops had been rented out. He said that on June 26, 2005, at 11.30am, the accused came home and introduced himself as an income tax officer and said that he had a notice. The accused also told the victim that the department had information that he had Rs 70 lakh lying at home, and he should settle the matter. The accused threatened him and said if he did not agree, an income tax raid would be arranged within half an hour.
 
  The victim called up the police and requested them to come over. At first the accused thought the victim was only threatening him by pretending to call the police but when he realised the cops were on their way, he tried to flee. However, the victim and his father caught the accused. The cops then arrived and took him away.
 
