PUNE: Stricter security measures have been implemented on the premises of   (SPPU) after 6pm for the students and employees, and the varsity's administration has started a shuttle service from the main gate to the women's hostel so that students do not have to walk the distance, especially in the dark.

 While these measures have been well-received, students and hostelites said the campus was not well lit to make moving around after dark completely safe. Women students have raised concerns over dimly lit areas near the main building, the refractory , Jaykar library and the main building among many other thickly wooded spots.
 
 Khushi Pradhan, who is studying a masters' degree course in science, said, “Before taking admission to the university , I checked upon the safety aspects. I also got feedback from some seniors from Bhopal who had studied here regarding the security on the campus. So far, I am satisfied, but as far as possible I do not go out of my hostel room after dark.“
 
 Sujay Latkar, a student of the English department at the varsity, felt the university had taken steps to ensure that guards patrol the campus after 6pm. “I also feel there should be police presence on a regular basis.Once people know that policemen are patrolling the campus, miscreants will stay away . This should not be only during night time, but also in the day as many spots within the university are se cluded.“
 
 Security officer M S Kedari said his department has started the exercise of deploying guards for conducting rounds after the office hours. “Every department guard has been told to patrol the premises after the students and employees finish the day's work and leave the department. The departments are closely connected and within a distance of 500m so each guard takes care of the department's premises. We keep only the main gate open after 1am while all other gates are shut so there is just one entry to the university premises.“
 
 Kedari said there are close to 150 guards working in three shifts at the university every day ensuring safety of the students. The university has also started a   where women employees in the varsity and hostel students are dropped from the main gate to their hostels.
 
 The system ensures that the student and employees do not have to walk this entire distance of nearly 2km in the dark. The shuttle service has a woman guard accompanying the passengers.
 
 The   has formulated guidelines on the ways in which the campuses of hig her   can be transformed into oasis of safety, security and study.
 
 As per the guidelines, at least one woman security personnel should be deployed at such entry points so that physical security check of girl students or visitor can be undertaken. The bags and other belongings of studentsvisitors can also be examined, manually andor by metal detectors, in order to secure a weapon-free and violence-free campus.
 
