MUMBAI: In the corridors of public administration, it seems to be not difficult to be in office and earn a salary despite facing serious charges of corruption. Information obtained under RTI from the revenue department by activist   has revealed that 36 officials suspended for criminal cases (corruption under the   or Indian Penal Code) have been reinstated even when an FIR has been filed against them and prosecution sanction has been given by the  . 

 Activists said this leaves scope for the corrupt to ‘tamper’ with charges and find newer ‘sources’ to route the corruption. But revenue and ACB authorities said the officials have been given non-executive work, away from the public, that will not influence decisions.
 
 This ‘backdoor’ entry of officials has been allowed using a bizarre circular of June 31, 2015, whereby after fulfilling certain conditions one-year suspension, prosecution sanction from government, departmental inquiry is on, and charge-sheet is filed officers can be reinstated. Senior ACB and   said even under suspension, the officials had to be paid 75% of their salaries, which has not only led to loss of money for the government but also affected staff strength, affecting departmental output.
 
 Papers obtained under RTI suggested that a proposal for reinstatement of four of the officers was rejected a year ago as no departmental inquiry was ordered against them. Within a year, these officers again sent proposals for reinstatement after a departmental inquiry was ordered against them in the middle of last year. A suspension review committee comprising ACB, home and revenue department officials that decided on reinstating tainted officials based on those conditions recommended the names of the four, confirming their ‘backdoor’ entry.
 
 So to get back on the job, a criteria of inquiry was fulfilled as per the ‘controversial’ circular, alleged Ghadge. He said the circular should have made a ‘clean chit’ in the departmental inquiry as a condition to get back on the job. “For this, through the same circular, the government could have suggested steps to expedite and complete inquiries within a time frame by the departments involved. People would have appreciated the government having a stringent condition in the circular which could have also helped it score morally and ethically over previous regimes,” he said.
 
 “For the public, it appears that corrupt officials are taking advantage of the circular and are getting departmental inquiries ordered against them to fulfil criteria to get back on the job. Interestingly, as per information on the ACB website, the same committee is delaying prosecution sanction to many other officials of the revenue department who have cases pending with the ACB and making way for only a set of officials,” Ghadge alleged.
 
 But a senior revenue department official told TOI that the officials have been reinstated, they will continue to face inquiries, and if found guilty, will face action as per law. “Getting back on the job does not mean absolving them of charges. Since even under suspension the government has to pay them a salary that also compromised official targets, they are put on the job if they fulfilled criteria as per the government circular,” he said, pointing out that during their posting it is ensured that they do not tamper with evidence. 
 
 Most of the 36 officials are of deputy superintendent rank and worked with the land records wing of the revenue department.
 
