New Delhi: Many doctors were surprised when they found that 2,600 of the 7,666 sanitation workers who turned up on Friday for free health check-ups at a   organised by East Delhi Municipal Corporation had breathing problems and asthma. The majority of them who came to Yamuna Sports Complex suffered from asthma and extreme breathlessness.

 Altogether 1,200 of these sanitation workers suffered from various eye infections.
 
 Doctors felt five pulmonologists were insufficient to handle the large number of workers with breathing issues. “I feel we should have engaged 10 more pulmonologists,” Dr Ajay Lekhi,   chief administrative medical officer, said.
 
 The sanitation workers sweep the roads and lift garbage with their bare hands and without dust masks. Exposure to dust and germs from the garbage damages their health and hastens their demise. Sanitation workers’ associations claim 70% of their workers die before retirement age. There are 80,000 regular and contract sanitation workers across the three civic bodies in the city.
 
 Health experts said sanitation workers risk dying 10 years too soon. “Since the sanitation workers are exposed to dust and germs from the waste for a long period of time, the chances are high that they will lose 10 years of their life,” said Dr Lekhi.
 
 It is rare to see civic body sanitation workers sweeping roads with dust masks or lifting garbage with gloves and masks on. Such exposure damages their breathing mechanism and lungs, and their eyes. “Altogether 1,200 sanitation workers were found to be suffering from various eye infections. Dust particles from the road enter their eyes and, over a long period of time, damage them. There was a huge rush among the sanitation workers to see the doctors,” said Lekhi.
 
 There is extreme lack of awareness among sanitation workers about their health. EDMC knows the workers lack awareness but this was the first such health camp. “We will organise more health camps for sanitation workers. Their health issues are a matter of concern to us,” said EDMC mayor Neema Bhagat. 
 
 “A sanitation worker has to have powerful luck to survive till retirement. Since the sanitation workers keep passing away one by one, and even the authorities manage to overlook their demise, I want to say that these sanitation workers are not dying, they are being killed,” said Dilli Pradesh   Union head Rajendra Mewati.
 
 MCD Swachhta Karamchari Union president Sanjay Gehlot said the various unions have been protesting against the lack of safety gear over the years. When their protests failed to generate a response, the unions approached the Delhi LG, and even the Prime Minister. But no solution is yet in sight.
 
 
