PUNE: Clouds hovering over the city every now and then may have ignited your hope for some  , but   does not foresee any rain at least for the next four to five days. 

 While thunderstorm activity with gusty winds have been forecast for Vidarbha on Wednesday, central Maharashtra may see no such activity. In fact, day temperatures are set to rise by a degree here during the next couple of days, said IMD officials on Tuesday.
 
 The city’s day temperature touched 39.5 degrees C (Shivajinagar observatory) on Tuesday, it is expected to touch 40 degrees C in the next couple of days.
 
 P C S Rao, scientist, climate monitoring and analysis group, IMD, Pune, said, “Concentration of the pre-monsoon rain-belt currently lies in the eastern region of the country. Under its influence, eastern Vidarbha may also experience weather activity like thunderstorm with gusty winds for the next two days.”
 
 Rao said that a cyclonic circulation extended over south   and adjoining Vidarbha on Tuesday, while a trough ran from this cyclonic circulation to north interior Karnataka across Marathwada. “All these weather systems have caused a bit of clouding over Pune and central Maharashtra. However, day temperatures in the central Maharashtra region may rise by a degree during the next couple of days and are likely to fall later due to the influence of moist westerlies over the Arabian Sea and the passage of a western disturbance over north India,” said Rao.
 
 The Lohegaon observatory, in the meantime, recorded 40.1 degrees C, around 2.1 degrees C above normal, on Tuesday. Akola recorded the highest day temperature in Maharashtra at 43.4 degrees C, while Chandrapur in Vidarbha at 43.2 degrees C recorded the highest day temperature in the country on Monday.
 
 Last year, the southwest monsoon finally made an onset over almost entire Maharashtra, barring very few parts of extreme north Madhya Maharashtra, by mid-June. The city also started to receive the rains after a delay of ten days then.
 
 Lecture on southwest monsoon conducted
 
 The India Meteorological Department on Tuesday organized a lecture on the southwest monsoon season. A K Sahai, head, climate research and services, spoke on ‘Monsoon Mission’ and brought out the features of the monsoon in 2015 and 2016, emphasizing on the forecasts provided in the past two years.
 
