NAGPUR: State Govenment should frame a policy so that specialised persons should look after and train special kids. It will not only benefit the differently abled children but also streamline the operations in most efficient way, said Dr   on Sunday. He was speaking as chief guest of the valedictory function of Kalyan Muk Badhir Vidyalaya’s golden jubilee celebrations at Reshimbagh.

 Director of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Institution of Medical Science, Research and Human Resources, Kamdar is also an adviser to Union minister  . He said, “Emphasis should be laid on skill development and rehabilitation programmes for such children. Moreover, good courses for graduation should be made available.”
 
 Kamdar appreciated the significant achievement of Saraswati Mandir voluntary women’s organization which runs the school. He further said, “Credit goes to the pioneers of the committee for building such a strong foundation with a long term vision.” 
 
 Various competitions were held throughout the academic year to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the school and the winners were felicitated during the prize distribution function. Former principals Sudha Rangnath, Anjali Moharkar, Meena Joshi and Ragini Geetey were also felicitated. Std IX student   was rewarded for her excellent contribution in conducting the school activities.
 
 Vice-president Dr Vibhavari Dani said, “The school started its Std X batch eight years ago and is achieving cent per cent results. This reflects the quality of education of our institute. We focus on imparting skills in children through an exclusive workshop where they learn fine arts as these kids are more inclined towards creativity.”
 
 She added, “We want to prepare them for future and make them self-sufficient. Our well-trained teachers try to identify their unique talents and unlock their potential.”
 
 Headmistress   said, “I have seen a remarkable growth in the intellectual level of students in 20 years of my association with this school. Many of them are already on the path of entrepreneurship and making craft items like files, bouquets, paper plates, greeting cards and earning huge profits.”
 
 Also present on the occasion were president of the organization Shailja Subhedhar, secretary Shubheda Ambekar and treasurer Anjali Nagathe.
 
