ISLAMABAD: In a tit-for-tat action after the Indian Army released a video clip of “punitive fire assaults” on Pakistani positions at the line of control, Pakistan’s military released a video clip to substantiate a claim that it destroyed Indian posts across the LoC. 

 Major General Asif Ghafoor, Pakistan army’s spokesperson, released a heavily edited 87-second video recording on Twitter on Tuesday, saying: “On 13 May 2017, India targeted innocent civilians. In befitting response   destroyed Indian posts in Nowshera.” 
 
 The spokesperson also denied India’s claim that it had hit Pakistan’s army posts. “Indian claims of destroying Pakistani post along LoC in Naushera Sector and firing by Pakistan Army on civilians across LoC are false,” Maj Gen Asif Ghafoor tweeted. 
 
 On the contrary, he said the Indian Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation, including heavy mortar and artillery fire on civil population in Bhimber Sector on May 13, which resulted in civilian casualties and damages to civil infrastructure. In the wake of the alleged Indian aggression, Major General Ghafoor claimed “a befitting and stern response was mounted on Indian posts causing substantial losses to military men and material”.
 
 “Pakistan Army remains undeterred and any misadventure by Indian Army would be responded with even greater force and strength,” Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), army’s media arm, said in a statement. Meanwhile, the ISPR claimed on Wednesday that two officials of the   group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) narrowly escaped a firing incident when Indian troops targeted their vehicle while they were visiting the areas along LoC. “Indian troops committed unprovoked ceasefire violation. The Indian troops deployed on LoC, targeted UNMOGIP vehicle along LoC in   sector,” the ISPR claimed. 
 
 According to the statement, the vehicle was carrying UNMOGIP Officers Major   of Philippine and Major Mirko of Croatia when it came under fire. ISPR further said that the officials, who were on a visit to LOC, were targeted despite UNMOGIP blue flag was hoisted on the vehicle as per procedure. Both officers, however, remained safe and were rushed to a safe location, said the spokesman.
 
