
CHENNAI: The alleged murder of a 37-year-old alcohol addict recently at a de-addiction centre in Chennai in the guise of ‘treatment’ is the latest in the series of human rights violations and third degree methods adopted by such de-addiction centres, not only in Tamil Nadu but across the country. A select few professionally run institutions may be an exception, but the incident shows that there is not much to differentiate between legal and illegal de-addiction and rehabilitation centres in the state when it comes to quality and methodology of de-addiction treatment meted out to addicts. 
 
 The Union ministry of social justice and empowerment (MSJE) entrusted with running de-addiction programmes across the country is ill-equipped to frame and execute de-addiction policies. While the ministry supports and funds almost 401 NGOs to run de-addiction programmes all over country, many of these treatment-cum-rehabilitation centres lack adequate infrastructure, skilled manpower and holistic approach in providing the services. Besides, these NGOs serve a miniscule number of patients compared to the enormous number of addicts needing assistance.
 
 WHO has released several research papers which single out alcoholism/   as a major public   hazard, especially in developing countries like India.   and substance abuse manifest in the form of diseases like liver cirrhosis, fatty liver disease, pancreatitis, heart disease, diabetes, malnutrition and several types of cancer. 
 
 Alcoholism and substance abuse, which weaken the immune system, also contribute in a significant manner, to the spread of HIV/AIDs and tuberculosis. They are also the major causes behind an increasing number of fatalities, injuries and disabilities caused due to road accidents, accidental falls, drowning and workplace accidents that happen under the influence of alcohol.
 
 Although alcoholism and substance are major triggers behind   diseases, the investments made in resources — both financial and human — to tackle the problem of mental ill-health in the state is insignificant, compared to the resource allocation for non-mental health issues. The number of mental health experts, preventive health specialists, psychologists and counsellors is also insignificant in rehab centres across the state. The absence of skilled and trained mental health experts in turn forces a majority of affected persons to depend on witch doctors, quacks and spurious de-addiction centres. Those who end up at the hands of such quacks endure torture, third degree treatment methods, spurious drugs and end up losing their lives, more on account of the brutal and unscientific treatment methods, rather than substance abuse.
 
 Despite being dangerous triggers to public ill-health, alcoholism and substance abuse are not addressed under the National Health Mission run by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) and instead come under the purview of a non-specialised department such as the MSJE. The ignorance of the MOHFW towards such grave concerns is conspicuous, especially at a time when the ministry is handling health hazards caused due to tobacco use.
 
 The central government should bring the issue of alcoholism, addiction and substance abuse under the direct purview of MOHFW. The ministry in turn should give necessary direction to contain the spread of alcoholism and substance abuse on a mission mode. To accelerate the process, the Tamil Nadu government, which so far had been busy promoting alcohol to fill its coffers, should approach the Centre to open a NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences) centre in the state.
 
 ‘Right to Health’ is part of ‘Right to Life’ under Article 21 of our Constitution. Any failure by the government, especially by the appropriate agency like the MOHFW will be denial of right to life to millions of young Indians who fall prey to the burden of diseases on account of their ignorance about the consequences of alcoholism and drug consumption. Most of those who die prematurely or become disabled are in the most productive years of their lives. The cost to the economy and country as a whole is significant on account of this depressing situation.
 
 (The author is a development activist and director, Change India, a centre for advocacy and research).
 
