PUNE: The theft of property, including the seats at the  , is one of the major concerns for the   ( ) officials who have started work to set up better bus stops.

 Speaking to TOI on Thursday, senior officials of the transport body said that despite cases of thefts, they felt that it was a better option to work on replacing what was stolen rather than inform the police about the same.
 
 “We get complaints time and again that things such as chairs or back rests have been stolen by miscreants. Keeping a check on all the bus stops is a difficult task for the PMPML. Whenever such complaint comes, the officials replace the stolen items. Going to the police means lodging a first information report ( ) which takes a lot of time. One official of the transport body has to be present at the police station for hours to complete the formalities. Hence, we simply replace stolen items,” said D. P. More, the joint managing director of PMPML.
 
 Several commuters have complained about the condition of bus stops in different parts of the city. Officials said that the work of setting up improved bus stops was on.
 
 “The PMPML has started a plan under which the old bus stops, which are in a bad shape, will be replaced by stainless steel sheds (SSS) or bus stops. These bus stops have got a monolithic design and this, we believe, will ease out the cases of thefts. Also, as far as the seating is concerned, the new bus stops are comfortable with proper steel planks with back rest facility. At present, work is on to replace the old bus stops. The existing bus stops are mainly made of iron and once their condition starts getting bad, they too will be replaced with the new ones in a phased manner,” another official pointed out.
 
 Sanjay Kulkarni (64), who lives in Kothrud and travels often by bus, said that proper thought had not been given to setting up both the old and new bus stops.
 
 “The old bus stops were good as they had plastic seats. However, the seats were stolen and the PMPML just put up iron poles in their place. These poles could be used as a sort of a back rest and also for sitting. While youngsters can easily sit on these poles, the senior citizens cannot. I am forced to stand for a long time due to unavailability of proper seating facility at the bus stops. With the buses never on schedule, there are times when people have to stand for a long time,” Kulkarni said.
 
 Officials at PMPML said that talks were on for better planning and execution. There are bus stops which have broad steel slabs on which a person can sit easily.
 
