PUNE: After their season opener against Mumbai Indians last week,   skipper Steve Smith had said their 'home', the MCA Stadium, is a good place to bat at. As Smith and Co host   on Tuesday, the Pune skipper would want to forget their six-wicket away loss to Kings XI Punjab in Indore two days ago, and concentrate in accumulating runs on a good surface. It helps that Pune are playing at home and are playing an opponent whom they have defeated in both meetings so far.

 
 
 With Smith, MS Dhoni, in-form   and all-rounder Ben Stokes in the line-up, the batting at least on paper is not a big worry. But they have to work on their bowling, their weaker suit.
 
 Despite an average show (7-0-83-1) in two games, Pune seem to be persisting with Ashoke Dinda as their pace spearhead. With Smith, Stokes and leg-spinner Imran Tahir occupying three of the four foreigners' quota, Pune have just one open spot for a foreign player.
 
 They have tried Australian legspinner Adam Zampa in the home match against MI and bowling all-rounder Daniel Christian in Indore. Zampa's (3-0-26-1) and Christian's (20-24-0) figures may not have impressed Pune think-tank much. They would have wanted more from their foreign recruits especially when they have to leave a strong batsman in Faf du Plessis (SA captain) out to accommodate them.
 
 Smith would have an option in Kiwi pacer Lockie Ferguson if the team aim to boost their bowling line up.
 
 On the other hand, Delhi lost their opener after a collective batting failure against Royal Challenger Bangalore. Their bowlers, however, showed stomach for a fight by restricting abetting-powerhouse team to just 157 in 20 overs.
 
 Sam Billings (25), who was one of the two Delhi batsmen to score more than 20 runs (the other being Rishabh Pant with 57), said they need to lift their batting against Pune.
 
 "We had an unfortunate result on Saturday. It is real shame not to get over the line, but there are a lot of positives to take. Our bowling unit in Bangalore was fantastic and hopefully they'll do their job again along with the batsmen."
 
 With a combination of off-spinner Jayant Yadav, leg-spinner   and left-arm orthodox Shahbaz Nadeem along with a pace attack led by their captain  , Billings felt if played to their potential, Delhi can be the side to beat right through this season.
 
 "Away from home, we know it is going to be tough, but there is no doubt that we can win," he said.
 
 "We have Jayant Yadav, who had a brilliant Test series against England. Then we have Amit Mishra, who is I think the second top wicket-taker ever in the  .
 
 "Nadeem was pick of our bowlers in Bangalore. So, we have got a balanced attack with pace of (Chris) Morris, (Kagiso) Rabada and (Pat) Cummins. Of course, we have Zaheer's experience," Billings said of his side's bowling attack.
 
