CHENNAI: In a government higher secondary school in Tiruvallur, teachers shuffle multiple subjects on a daily basis. Between science, maths, english and language, three subject teachers handle the whole higher secondary division. 

 But this isn’t a one-off instance of a government school being short-staffed and teachers juggling classes to cover curriculum. It has been nearly two months into the academic school year, and scores of government higher secondary   in the state still face a shortage in number of teachers. 
 
 While schools report that teacher vacancies for classes VI to X have more or less been filled this year — partially through TET (Teacher Eligibility Test which covers till class 8) and through promotions and postings — there remains a significant dearth in the faculty pool for classes XI and XII. 
 
 “Certain districts in particular like Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Villupuram have a considerable shortage and this has been the trend for some years now. The situation is much better in southern districts where the schooling culture is also a little more rigorous,” says Ganesh P, a faculty at a corporation school here in the city. There are also concerns about a recent court order stating that 800 senior teachers will be promoted to fill headmaster/headmistress posts, which have been vacant for a year now. 
 
 “In my school for instance, we have just enough teachers. But these promotions could cause a shortage in both high schools and higher secondary schools,” says Muthu (name changed), a high school maths teacher in Kanchipuram. 
 
 This is because vacancies for HMs are usually filled by promotions awarded to senior faculty members in both high school and higher secondary level at an average ratio of 2:1 respectively. This could mean a chunk of teacher vacancies could be further added to the existing shortage of 1,500.
 
 However, officials maintain that the education department will look to ensure no vacancies arise once teacher enrollment is done later this month. They say that the TRB (Teacher Recruitment Board) that conducted a selection examination in July will not only look to fill this gap in the higher secondary segment, but increase the teacher strength by an additional 1,500 faculty members. “This will allay any gaps in vacancies for at least the next 2 years in a row,” said an education department official. 
 
 He added that in the past few years, vacancies in higher secondary has gone up from 300 seats to the preset 1,500 shortage. Through this recruitment, several districts that show up in red for vacancies — including Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Vellore, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Pudukottai — will not be short-staffed after the allotments are done by end of August.
 
 Officials maintain that the education department will look to ensure no vacancies arise once teacher enrollment is done later this month.
 
