Last year, beef was on the menu in Haryana. Well, kind of.

 First, chief minister   said, rather naughtily, that Muslims would have to give up eating beef if they wanted to remain in the country (a statement that had food inspectors rejoicing over their vegetables). Then, later on in 2016, there was the matter of a beef scare in Mewat (a cooked-up tale, according to many).
 
 But beef, as it turned out, was just a red herring (since we’re talking meat here), for bigger nutritional plans were in store for the good people of Gurgaon. In the wake of recent developments in India’s largest state, saffron bullies all over India have become emboldened. They’re smelling blood (not of animals, of course – perish the thought!) after the new chief minister, with a brute majority behind him, chose to come down heavily on abattoirs in Uttar Pradesh, a move that has compromised the livelihoods of a fair few.
 
 And as if on cue, on Tuesday night, a couple of hundred Shiv Sainiks (a political outfit known for its intimidation tactics and thuggery) took to the streets of the old city and forced hundreds of meat sellers – and a KFC outlet – to down shutters for nine days, or face consequences. Owners were also asked in no uncertain terms to make sure their businesses remained closed on Tuesdays.
 
 Following these threats, you can hardly blame proprietors of   and dhabas in the older part of Gurgaon for feeling a little apprehensive, especially with   around the corner, though cops have assured they would respond with stringent measures if anyone took the law into their own hands.
 
 But what would happen if these churls (backed by diet-despots in positions of power) crossed the highway and began flexing their muscles next to the fancy markets and swanky condo complexes of  ? What would happen to all those bars and restaurants in CyberHub and Sector 29, and on Golf Course and Sohna roads? Here, after all, are where all the expats are, folks who live and work in the city and give it its cosmopolitan character. Could Gurgaon really be facing the prospect of meatless days ahead? Should we prepare ourselves for Prohibition of another kind? And will that pizzeria a block away still deliver pepperoni pizza? Don’t say you weren’t warned.
 
 
