Ludhiana: A chariot made of silver became the centre of attraction for devotees on Saturday, when members of Shri Ram Leela and Dussehra Committee, Daresi, organized a ‘rath yatra’ from the old city. The chariot — made up of almost two quintals of silver — moved in the inner streets of the old city to reach Ram Mandir, where it will be kept amid tight security. The organizers said they wanted to do something different this year. Therefore, they got the rath made of silver, which will be kept in Ram Mandir, Daresi, under lock and key, but devotees will get a chance to pay their obeisance to the silver statues of Lord Ram, Goddess Sita, Laxman, and Lord Hanuman on regular days.

 Providing information about the chariot, president of the committee, Sanjeev Kundra, said it was the first time they had made a silver chariot for establishing Ram Darbar (Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman, and Hanuman) during Dussehra celebrations. He said they organised the ‘rath yatra’ on Saturday from Thakur Dwara till Ram Mandir in Daresi, and the public was very happy after participating in the event.
 
 Regarding the chariot’s cost, he said it was worth more than rupees one crore, and they had arranged the money through donations and committee funds. However, regarding its security, he revealed they had especially prepared a room where there would be a three-tier security system, along with CCTV cameras installed, so that no thief is able to strike. A devotee, Muskan Sharma, said they had seen the silver chariot during Shivratri rath yatra celebrations, but during Dussehra and Navratri celebrations, it was a new thing, and she enjoyed a lot with her family members. 
 
 TRADITIONAL PALKI YATRA
 
 Palki Yatra, which too starts from Thakur Dwara, is also a ten-day event, which will continue until the day after Dussehra. Everyday, a palki carrying Lord Ram, Goddess Sita, and Laxman is moving in the old markets of the city, and the silver chariot was also similar to Palki Yatra, but it was for one day only. 
 
 
