Set foot into the offices of   for Child Development and   in Socorro, and it becomes clear why the organisation has, over the past 12 years, become synonymous with children’s welfare and care in Goa. The bright, blue bungalow has an air of cheerfulness about it, much like the director of the facility it houses — Dr Nandita de Souza.

 A pediatrician who studied at the  , de Souza, at heart, is not all that different from her young clients.
 
 She is blunt about what prompted her to become a doctor “I think it was my high marks in school and college,” she says. “I did not have any burning passion to be a doctor — it was what you did in those days if you did well at exams. 
 
 Since the other option was engineering, which I definitely did not want to choose, I chose medicine.” But she says she considers herself lucky that she ended up loving the vocation from the very first day itself.
 
 “I always wanted to work for children and spend time focusing on their development, emotions, learning and behaviour,” she says. But government hospitals, with their never-ending queues, prevented her from engaging with her little patients at length.
 
 It was her zeal to reach out to them beyond the scope of what was possible in government medical establishments that led her to set up Sethu in 2005.
 
 In the absence of any formal training centres or courses at the time when she entered the field of developmental paediatrics, de Souza had to rely on alternate sources of information to broaden her horizons.
 
 With a twinkle in her eye, she talks of the time when Sethu started in a two-bedroom apartment in Panaji with just three staffers and three trustees. “Today, the staff strength stands at more than five times that number, with a range of specialists on board,” she says.
 
 De Souza believes that families can play a major role to overcome the stigma and isolation associated with disability by coming together. Aarambh — one of Sethu’s many endeavours — allows parents of children with autism, who have already benefited from the organisation’s services and seen their children progress, to interact with other parents who have just embarked on a journey to help their children who have recently been diagnosed.
 
 Having worked with close to 7,000 children in the course of Sethu’s existence, de Souza puts a lot of emphasis on the role of the school education system and kindergarten teachers in helping children achieve their full potential. 
 
 “A school teacher can be a great observer and a good judge of a child’s progress," she says. “A teacher can easily know if a student is falling behind in comparison to his or her peers.” She also emphasises that training a teacher in the field of child development can help early detection and intervention of many challenges in development and behaviour. “This is what we try to achieve through our teacher training workshops. Sethu can’t attend to every child, everywhere. But if we can train teachers, they, in turn, can help the hundreds of students they come across. ”
 
 Ask her how she balances the demands of her job with her own well-being, she says: “Whatever we do at Sethu, we do it from the heart. Our children are the centre of our existence and, as such, it has mostly been an energizing journey. Over the years, I have learnt to balance my life and I make sure I spend time with myself to rejuvenate. 
 
 Taking full responsibility for my state of mind and heart and accepting that I am frail and prone to fail at times, too, helps me help the children to the best of my abilities.”
 
 And indeed, the team at Sethu under de Souza’s able guidance has impacted the lives of many children in the most profound way — as is evident from the fact that several of them continue to be in touch with the organisation well into their adulthood.
 
 “We’ve grown with our children, learnt much from them,” de Souza says, as she reiterates her mantra of never giving up hope in a child or in any situation. “Every child has limitless potential. It is our responsibility to identify and harness that,” she says.
 
  The commitment to living up to that promise shines through in the way Team Sethu helps the work of the organization move from strength to strength.
 
 In 2005, Dr Nandita de Souza set up Sethu to reach out to children beyond the scope of what was possible at a hospital. Over the next 12 years, it, and she, became synonymous with  
 
