NAGPUR :   (earlier NMRCL) has shown that it is quite serious about the opinion given by citizens in its   Responding to a suggestion given by a   regarding the  , Mahametro has decided to shift it.

 Rohit Deshpande, resident of Ravi Nagar Square, had suggested that the location of Lokmanya Nagar station (near Hingna depot) be shifted near the CRPF gate no 4 so that the station becomes convenient to reach for people travelling down the Isasani Road. His demand was backed by Hingna MLA Sameer Meghe.
 
 Meghe had, in fact, demanded that an extra station be constructed at Isasani Road T-Point on Hingna Road. Mahametro has, however, only decided to shift the Lokmanya Nagar station.
 
 According to Deshpande, who has been pursuing this issue since months, the distance between Lokmanya Nagar station (the last one on Hingna Road end) and Bansi Nagar station is 1.66km, which is too much. “A large number of colleges lie on Isasani Road. Many people travelling to these institutes by buses get down at Isasani Road T-Point and take autorickshaws and six-seaters to travel to their destinations. If they get down at the existing Metro stations they will have to unnecessarily cover a huge distance to reach the T-Point,” he said.
 
 “Due to this reason, many people may not use the Metro Rail at all. Around 6,000 people travel down the Isasani Road from various parts of the city to the institutions. Mahametro should, therefore, construct an extra station or shift the Bansi Nagar station to the T-Point,” Deshpande said.
 
 The institutions that lie on Isasani Road are: Raisoni Engineering College, Priyadarshini Engineering College, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, VSPM Medical Institute, Dental College, Physical Education College, etc. Other than this, people living in CRPF Quarters and Isasani village also use this road.
 
 Deshpande has also suggested that a dedicated suburban railway corridor be created along the existing Kamptee to Butibori railway main line. “Enough land is available with the railway for this corridor. Some new stations need to be created. Mahametro is planning to expand the Metro upto Kamptee and Butibori. This is a far costlier option,” he told TOI.
 
