HYDERABAD: A familiar accompaniment of Lord Ganesha may be missing during the festivites this year. Unable to handle the devotees frenzy during the distribution of the laddu hours before the immersion of the deity on the 11th day, the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee is contemplating replacing the giant laddu that adorns Ganesh's left palm with a smaller locally made one or one made of Plaster of Paris.

 “This year, there will be no giant laddu or   prepared by PVVS  , owner of   based in   in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. If no local donor comes forward for the preparation of a smaller laddu, we will go with one made of PoP,“ Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee organising secretary S Raj Kumar told STOI.
 
 From the year 2010, Mallikarjuna Rao has been offering the   the Maha Prasadam that came to be known as the Tapeswaram Laddu. Until 2009, the organizers used to offer a laddu that was no more than 10 kg. Apparently, the laddumaker from East Godavari had visited the Khairatabad Ganesha in 2009 wherein his daughter wondered as to why should the sweet offering to a giant Ganesha be such a small one. Taken in by her observation, Mallikarjuna approached the organisers and offered to donate a big laddu to the deity from then on. The bonanza for the devotees of the elephant god began in 2010. Beginning with a 500 kg laddu that year, Mallikarjuna Rao increased the quantity to 2,400 kg in 2011 to 6,000 kg in 2015. For the donor, making the laddu was a humungous task and a costly one too. The 6,000 kg laddu needed 2,600 kg of sugar, 1,500 kg of ghee, 1,500 kg of bengal gram, 200 kg of cashewnuts, 200 kg of badam, 30 kg of cardamom and cost him a whopping Rs 18 lakh.
 
 But by then, the scramble for a piece of the Maha Prasadam turned into a law and order problem, leading to lathicharge on a few occasions during the distribution of the laddu before the immersion. Devotees would assemble by midnight and stand in queues to have the laddu. Besides, in 2013, incessant rains damaged the laddu leading to it being dumped in Hussainsagar. With both the police and organizers pleading helplessness, Mallikarjuna Rao decided to trim the size of the laddu and donated a 500 kg laddu in 2016.
 
 For 2017, the committee is scouting for a city-based sweet maker who would come forward and donate the laddu, though not of the size that Mallikarjuna Rao used to offer. If nothing works out, devotees would have to do with a PoP laddu sitting on the Ganesha's left palm. In any case, from now on, the giant Khairatabad Ganesh would make his annual appearance but the giant laddu has taken the bow.
 
