GURGAON: The first   in the   was filed by the special investigation team (SIT) of Gurgaon police in a city court on Wednesday. 

 Though eight arrested accused, including three cops, have been named in the 551-page chargesheet, the SIT said that it has also identified the other six accused involved in the scam. 
 
 Those named in the chargesheet are Manish Bhardwaj alias Kala, the alleged mastermind; his accomplices, Mohan Lal and Shanikant; fake stamp provider Gaurav; stamp maker Sonu Sharma; and three cops — suspended inspector Jasmer Singh, former in-charge of the arms licence branch; suspended sub-inspector Virender Singh; and head constable Mahesh Kumar, suspended employee of arms licence branch. 
 
 All of them have been charged under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (used as genuine as fraud) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act and sections 7, 8, 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 
 
 The ninth accused, ASI Vikas, joined the investigation on March 18 and cops are waiting to conduct a polygraph test on him. 
 
 The next hearing of the case is scheduled for Thursday as one of the accused, SI Virender, has moved a bail application in the court.
 
 Meanwhile, arrest warrants have been issued against the six other accused in the scam. The SIT has identified them as Khurja-based illegal arms makers, Kurban and Rehman; inspector Jasmer’s brother Ved Prakash; Mohan Lal’s son Yogesh alias Yashu; Bulanshahr resident Azhar; and Naveen, a Modi Nagar resident. 
 
 “Azhar and Naveen were tampering with the serial numbers on the fake weapons that were being supplied by Kurban and Rehman. Yogesh was involved in getting the fake no-objection certificates (NOCs),” said an investigating officer, on condition of anonymity. 
 
 “The arrest warrants have been issued and we are conducting raids to nab all six. Every single accused involved in the scam will be arrested,” ACP Anil Yadav, head of SIT, told TOI.
 
 “The investigation will take time as it is connected to various people and places,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar. 
 
 It may be noted that following a special investigation by joint commissioner of police Sibas Kabiraj, the scam pertaining to issuing of fake arms licences in Gurgaon was unearthed in the second week of February. On February 10, an FIR was registered against Manish Bhardwaj and his accomplice Mohan Lal at   police station and they were arrested.
 
 A probe revealed that some cops also were involved in the scam, leading to the arrest of Jasmer, Virender and Mahesh.
 
