BHUBANESWAR: Amidst the heated arguments between prosecution and defence lawyers in a jam-packed CBI court here on Wednesday, it was   MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who drew maximum eyeballs. He was arrested on Tuesday for his alleged complicity in Rose Valley chit fund scam. Accused of conspiring with Rose Valley promoters and cheating poor investors, Bandyopadhyay suddenly sought the attention of the judge and prayed for bail. 

 As the judge allowed him to speak, Bandyopadhyay pleaded innocence. “I was called up by CBI in November last year to appear before them. As I was busy with official works, I sought some time. I appeared before them on Tuesday. I was shocked to face some unsubstantiated and irrelevant questions from CBI,” said 64-year-old Bandyopadhyay, a three-time MP.
 
 Bandyopadhyay, chairman of railway standing committee and leader of TMC in Lok Sabha, said the CBI made him sit idle for four hours in their office. “Out of six hours in detention, I was asked only around six questions for two hours. I replied their questions with documentary evidence. I categorically told CBI that I did not have any links with the scam. I never promoted the firm, nor availed foreign trip in its money,” he told the court. “I clearly told I visited several foreign countries on official tours, but those trips were never sponsored by Rose Valley. It pained me when CBI asked me the questions without any documentary proofs,” he told the court. 
 
 Quoting Mahatma Gandhi, Bandyopadhyay said innocent persons should not be punished. “Ninety-nine guilty persons may be allowed to go scot free, but a single innocent person should not be punished. I am innocent. I appeal to the court to give me justice. It will be a black day if I do not get justice,” he said. 
 
 Bandyopadhyay said he was ready to cooperate with the probe agency. “CBI made false allegations that I was non-cooperative. I am a responsible politician and a known face in the country. My intention was not to mislead anyone. Even I never tried to abscond from the CBI,” Bandyopadhyay said. During his seven minute submission before the judge, he never uttered any word whether he was targetted by the BJP in Centre for criticising its demonetisation move. He along with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier flayed the BJP for misusing CBI for their fight against demonetisation. The CBI court allowed the probe agency to take him on remand for six days for interrogation in its custody.
 
