NEW DELHI: A teary-eyed   had crossed the finishing line at the   a couple of years back going through a range of emotions in realising his dream of competing at the world's toughest off-road rally. Fast forward to 2017, he became the first Indian rider to complete the rally twice -finishing in 47th place with the newly-formed Hero Motorsports Team Rally - while teammate   finished in 10th place.

 Santosh was a much more composed and relaxed man having crossed the finishing line in Buenos Aires on Saturday .That doesn't mean the Dakar Rally got any easier for him with the Bangalore rider billing this as one of the toughest challenges yet.
 
 “It was much harder than previous years. The navigation was a bigger challenge, especially in Bolivia. A lot of credit should go to my team, the back-room boys who helped us perform smoothly throughout the last two weeks,” Santosh told TOI from Buenos Aires on Sunday.
 
 The Indian felt the Bolivian leg -Tupiza all the way to Salta in   -was the most challenging phase in the rally. “Bolivia is a high-altitude location. You add cold and rainy weather to the mix and it really got treacherous for the riders. It was pretty difficult to navigate and the bikes themselves go through extreme temperatures swinging between hot and cold,” he added.
 
 Santosh was comfortably in the top 40 in the initial stages of the rally but believes a mistake set him back. “It is a tough feeling to deal with knowing that you could have finished in the top 40 but I made a big mistake on Day 3 which set me back. But overall I can say that this is the best I rode in Dakar. The competition has increased a lot and a couple of mistakes cost me in the end,” Santosh, who finished stage 12 in 45th position, said.
 
 After 12 stages Rodrigues clocked 34 hours 25minutes 59 seconds, while Santosh finished all the timed sections in 42 hours 01minute 16 seconds. “It was my first rally, so that makes it special. And to reach Buenos Aires being in the top 10 is indeed a great feeling. It was something I never thought of,” Rodrigues said.
 
 
