NEW DELHI: Six days after a 24-year-old fruit seller,  , was allegedly picked up and thrashed to death at Adarsh Nagar police station, neither have murder charges been levelled against six suspended policemen nor anyone arrested. No one has been dismissed either.

 The FIR clearly indicts the policemen for hatching a conspiracy to destroy evidence and get the body declared “unidentified“ by dumping it in a deserted area.
 
 Late on Monday evening, the case was transferred to the  . The   has also issued a notice to the police commissioner.
 
 The brazen manner in which the body was dumped raises the question whether more policemen were aware of the custody death and remained silent. The police station has at least 100 men on its staff. Though the conspiracy was clear to the police brass on December 30, when the body was found, an FIR was filed only the next day at 8.40pm. There is no explanation for this delay and the cops say they were just inquiring.
 
 Two policemen had detained Sompal outside   on December 28 after they found him arguing with another vendor. He was taken to the police station and allegedly beaten up. A few hours later, his body was found in the courtyard.
 
 Even if the improbable police theory that Sompal jumped off the terrace of the four-storey building in a bid to flee is bought, how did six policemen take out the body without others at the station getting to know before dumping it at a spot 6km away? The police version is that the room in which he was detained had not been locked and the terrace door was open.
 
 The second and third floors have offices of the investigating officers. Sompal might have been kept in one of the rooms on the third floor from where he supposedly reached the terrace.No one is able to explain why he was left unattended in a room instead of being put in the lock-up.
 
 No one seems to have noticed him walk up the stairs to the terrace though. Moreover, no one saw or heard the man falling and lying bleeding on the ground. The spot where he fell is in the courtyard, just a few feet away from the entrance to the police station.
 
 The probe so far has revealed that the policemen picked up the man in a Gypsy and drove off on the pretext of admitting him to a hospital. However, there is no record of this in the police station.
 
 The initial autopsy has revealed that his knees were broken and he had head injuries too. The spot near Majlis Park Metro station where the body was dumped is a deserted stretch that seemed to have been carefully chosen to pass off the murder as an accident.
 
 Now, with National Human Rights Commission knocking on their doors, the police seem to be doing damage control.
 
