HYDERABAD:   donned the mantle of fighting against malaria, continuing the unfinished task of Sir Ronald Ross. It was on August 20, 1897, that British doctor Sir   announced in Secunderabad that malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes. Though it was known a few decades earlier that malaria is caused by a parasite, Plasmodium, no one knew how the pathogen enters the human blood stream till Sir Ronald Ross discovered the vector in the form of female Anopheles mosquito. He received the   in 1902 for the path breaking discovery.

 When Osmania University was formed 16 years later, the world was still in celebration of the major human victory over malaria. But it was not enough as the battle was only half won. Osmania University and its affiliate Hyderabad Medical School (Osmania Medical College) took up cudgels against malaria to complete the work of Sir Ronald Ross. It began during 1920-21when the medical education department was opened in the nascent Osmania University.
 
 That Osmania University and Osmania Medical College had conducted sufficient research on malaria and anti-malarial drugs became evident during the 24th session of the   hosted by the university in January 1937. The scope of research on malaria extended beyond humans to cover birds and monkeys, which are also affected by malaria. The efficacy and side effects of drugs quinine and cinchonine were studied. Research was also conducted on the fever-reducing activity of then popular drug antipyrin in comparison with quinine, according to the proceedings of the ISC-24.
 
 Archival data reveals that Col HE Shortt, director of the   of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, London, visited the department of zoology in 1935. This gave the much-needed boost to malaria research in the university. The university took control of the   in 1955. It found how the anti-malarial drug quinine acts on the human body. It also conducted research on the drug plasmoquin, which is palatable unlike the bitter quinine. But financial constraints stopped the premier institution from further continuing the unfinished mission of Sir Ronald Ross. Today the institute lies in utter neglect craving for attention from the state government.
 
