CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that ex-servicemen who have retired as honorary commissioned officers are entitled to plots of the same size as direct commissioned officers. This order pertains to a bunch of petitions regarding a   (Huda) plot allotment scheme at Rewari in 2010.

 A division bench, comprising Justice Surya Kant and Justice Sudip Ahluwalia, passed these orders in the Krishan Kumar and others versus Huda case, allowing a large number of petitions filed by several military veterans who had retired as honorary lieutenant, captain or equivalent rank in the other two services.
 
 Honorary commissioned officers are those who had joined the armed forces in junior ranks of jawan or junior commissioned officer (JCOs), but were promoted as lieutenant or captain in the   or equivalent rank in Navy or the   going by their service record. Though they retire as honorary rank officers, they are considered as JCOs in the forces. Commissioned officers are directly inducted in the armed forces as lieutenants in the Army and equivalent ranks in the Navy or the Air Force. Citing the Chandar Bhan Sharma versus Huda case, in which the   had in July 2016 upheld that classification of plot allotment by rank as unreasonable, the HC directed the Huda authorities to allot plots to those petitioners who had emerged successful in the draw of lots within two months.
 
 The common grouse in most of the petitions filed by veterans was that they had applied for allotment of 10 marla (250 sq yards) plots in Sector 18 (defence) in the HUDA-devel oped sector in Rewari in the reserved category of defence personnel. But when draw of lots was held in July 2016, they were denied allotment on the ground that they were eligible to apply only for plots measuring 8 marla (200 sq yards) or below.
 
 Rejecting their claim, Huda had taken the plea that only retired commissioned officers are eligible for allotment of bigger size plots of 10 marla or above and petitioners, being honorary commissioned officers of JCOs rank, were not entitled to bigger plots.
 
