CHANDIGARH: With the intent to inculcate a habit of reading in children, the fourth edition of Chandigarh Children’s Literature Festival (CCLF) has been scheduled for January 27 and 28. The two-day event will see various aspects like creative writing, reality fiction writing, digital photography, illustration and more being discussed threadbare to make it children-friendly.

 Fifteen renowned and notable authors, storytellers and illustrators like Mathangi Subramanium, Andaleeb Wajib, Anuradha Sengupta, Bijal Vachharajani, Chatura Rao, Khushnaz Lala, Priya Kuriyan, Rustom Dadachanji, Sowmya Srinivasan, Srivi Kalyan, Tanvi Bhat and Vikram Sridhar will be flying from across the country to Chandigarh to be a part of the festival. Two Chandigarh-based storytellers Deeptha Vivekanand and Shiraz Saini will also participate. The main objective is to explore the creativity of the students so as to develop greater interest in them towards reading books and poetry.
 
 The fest will be open for children between the age group of 5-16 years and will be held in the premises of   in Zirakpur. Dikshant   and  , an NGO which aims to bring together writers, poets, actors and thespians for exchange of ideas, are the organizers of the event.
 
 Adaab Foundation chairman Mitul Dikshit said, “This time, we have invited writers from all over the nation who have made a name in children’s literature. We ask the publishers to nominate writers and based on their previous publication, invitations are sent.” The previous editions of the festival drew close to 1,000 children. This year, apart from the Tricity, schools from Jaipur and Bangalore will be participating in the event, he said adding, “The purpose of the festival is to make reading entertaining for children. Reading books helps one think differently.” Dikshit also said, “There has been a huge gap in the children’s literature. Today’s kids cannot relate to Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew. Children’s Literature requires special attention.”
 
 Vice-chairman of Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi, Madhav Kaushik, said, “There is a basic difference between literature festivals for adults and children. For adults, panel discussions and contours of literature set the tune, whereas for children one needs to convey everything in a storytelling manner.” He added, “Writing for children is the most difficult. The author has to indirectly tell about the society. For example, in  , life is presented in an allegorical manner to impart wisdom to kids. A habit of reading informs children of universal morality and gives them space to imagine.”
 
