GUWAHATI: Chasing the rebels of   after they killed two jawans of   in an ambush in   on Sunday morning,   have found gaping holes on the   that were used by the rebels as entry and exit points to travel from their bases in Myanmar. 

 Army chief General Bipin Rawat, during his first visit to the Eastern Command after assuming charge, visited the 4th Corps in Tezpur on Tuesday. He was briefed by the Corps commander on the security situation. 
 
 General Rawat, who had himself commanded a Corps in the Eastern Command and is well acquainted with the nuances of operational scenario here, was satisfied with the preparedness of Gajraj Corps, defence PRO Lt Col S Newton said. He left for Imphal before moving to Delhi.
 
 Security forces, who are combing the thick forests near the inter-state border, fear that the rebels might have escaped. A source said people of a remote village on the inter-state border have told security forces that they have seen the rebels move towards Arunachal Pradesh through the jungles. The jungle route from the border is just two km away from the Indo-Myanmar border.
 
 Two rebels, who were killed in retaliatory fire by Assam Rifles personnel, have been identified as members of PREPAK, a constituent member outfit of CorCoM. An umbrella organization of four outfits of Manipur, CorCoM has recently teamed up with Ulfa-I to carry out joint attacks under 'Operation Barak.'
 
 The slain rebels have been identified as Huidrom Pari, a Meitei from Imphal West district, and Bhaluipam Muivah, who is a Naga tribal from Ukhrul district.
 
 Assam Police special director general of police (law and order) Kuladhar Saikia said, "The search operation is on. We have found few security holes on the inter-state border and we are plugging them completely. This has been an area of concern."
 
 Saikia, who rushed to Tinsukia on Sunday after the incident, reviewed the situation along with the Army brass. Saikia, on reaching the city on Tuesday afternoon, also reviewed security arrangements at Khanapara here where Republic Day celebrations will be held. 
 
 
