NAGPUR: In a meet which came after declaration of  , Muslim religious organization   made a call to take on   in the 2019 general polls to “save the country’s secular fabric”.

 Named national integration conference, the undertone was also political at the event, with calls given against BJP and RSS.
 
 As a crowd of over 10,000 gathered at Kasturchand Park, Muslim clerics shared dais with other religious leaders. Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, and   baiter Hindu seer Acharya Pramod Krishnam were among the main speakers.
 
 The fiery speeches targeted both RSS and Narendra Modi for creating a divide in the country for electoral gains. As jibes were taken at Modi, Congress too was at the receiving end. The meet is fifth in the series of national integration conferences held throughout the state by Jamiat.
 
 Ambedkar called for forming a third force against BJP. “Hindus who have left the Congress are not likely to come back and the party has done little for the Muslims. It’s time to create a third front against the right wing by uniting with other backward classes,” Ambedkar said.
 
 With calls to ensure that UP debacle is not repeated, Ambedkar said its time to stop BJP, the party which is bent upon changing the Constitution by doing away with its secular aspects.
 
 Jamiat’s chief Arshad Madni said Hindus and Muslims have been living together in the country since centuries. “Even Aurangzeb who was known to be a religious bigot had Hindus appointed at high posts. However, these days a rift is being created between the two countries to gain votes. Those in power are hand in glove with those inciting communal hatred,” he said.
 
 “The worst example was during the election campaign at UP when statements were made that you get electricity during Eid and not in Diwali,” Madni said.
 
 Acharya Krishnam, the speaker who stole the show addressing the crowd in fluent Urdu, took direct hits at Modi. “They want Muslims to go to Pakistan. Not one has gone in the last three years of BJP rule, except one of them,” he said, referring to Modi’s visit to Pakistan.
 
 “They say Pakistan supporters should be dealt with but what about those who are getting too friendly with them, by making unsolicited visits?” he said.
 
 He added that BJP was doing a service to agencies like ISI by creating a discord between Hindus and Muslims, which will only weaken the country.
 
