Gandhinagar: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad ( ) is making every effort to revive Hindutva fervour in Gujarat and also the demand for Ram temple in Ayodhya.

 Sources said that it is towards this end that the VHP is organizing Virat Hindu Sammelan at GMDC ground on Sunday, March 26. Around 50,000 volunteers are expected to attend the Sammelan. It may be mentioned here that the BJP’s massive victory in UP assembly elections was the result of communal polarization.
 
 In the past one decade, the VHP has not been able to organize such a big public event in Gujarat. In March 2015, it had organized a small gathering of around 5,000 workers at Kankaria football ground.
 
 The March 25 event this year will be chaired by VHP’s international working president Dr Pravin Togadia. Sources said top Hindu saints from across Gujarat will also take part in the volunteers’ meeting, the largest in the past one decade. VHP will campaign for the Ram temple in the name of ‘Hindu pride’, sources said.
 
 Gujarat VHP general secretary, Ranchod Bharwad, said that around 50,000 volunteers from 8,500 villages and all the major cities will attend the Sammelan.
 
 “The agenda will be restoring Hindu asmita (pride) and uniting Hindus against attempts to divide them in the name of caste, community and region,” Bharwad said.
 
 He further said that the Sammelan will send out the message of Hindu unity, restore Hindu pride among young members of the community. It will also popularize Hindu ideology.
 
 “Dr Pravin Togadia, Surendra Jainji and saints from across the state will participate in the event,” Bharwad said. “We will also highlight religious and social issues pertaining to the Hindu community. VHP’s drive for a Hindu helpline and the Hindu health awareness programme will also be promoted.’’
 
 Talking about the demand for Ram temple at Ayodhya, Bharwad said that until the Ram temple is built, the VHP will continue its fight. “Saints and the VHP will decide the future course of action after the Supreme Court’s order on this issue,’’ Bharwad said.
 
 
