MALAPPURAM: The group of researchers from the regional centre of Sree Shankara  , who located the ancestral home of 19th century Sanskrit scholar and poet  , hopes to unearth historically significant facts related to the Sanskrit tradition of  .

 The ancestral house of Vasunny  , who played a major role in popularizing ayurveda and kathakali in 19th century , was located by the research team studying the Sanskrit tradition of Malappuram.Moosath is believed to have died in the beginning of 20th century in Southern Kuttoor near Thirunavaya.
 
 Life of Moosath is yet to be documented properly and hence the tracing of his family roots and recovery of historical documents related to his life is expected to shed light on Sanskrit learning, ayurveda and kathakali schools during the period. The research team is planning to study the documents, books and other material which were recovered from the house with the support of historians, scholars and archaeology experts.
 
 Dr  , head of the department( in-charge) of Sanskrit Literature, regional centre of Sanskrit University at  , said that though the life of many Sanskrit scholars who lived in Malappuram district such as Melpathur Narayana Bhattathiri, have been docu mented, historians have no authentic information on the contribution of Vasunni Moosath.
 
 “Moosath played a major role in popularizing ayurveda and kathakali in the region. He started a Sanskrit school in Kuttoor where more than 200 students including the members of lower caste, studied at a time. It is believed that Moosath published Vinjana Chinthamani magazine which was later handed over to Punnassery Nambi,“ she said. Moosath, according to her was very close to poet Vallathol Narayana Menon. Poet Ulloor S Parameswara Iyer has recorded in his book that Moosath died at the age of 100 due to Tetanus.
 
 “We need to study more about the contribution of Moosath and the University has decided to conduct seminars and conferences on the topic, aiming to gather more information to document his life,“ said Jayanthi. The programme would be organised in association with `Re-Echo', an NGO.
 
