Nagpur: Lokesh Gangahede, 34, an attendant at Regional Mental Hospital, Nagpur, was arrested by Mankapur police on Friday following a complaint of sexual exploitation by a 13-year-old on Thursday. This is the second rape complaint lodged by the minor, a student of standard VI, this year. The rape survivor claims to have been filmed while bathing on July 14 afternoon by Gangahede, who at 5pm also forced himself upon her in the bathroom of the female wards at the mental hospital.

 This is the third serious crime registered at the hospital within a year, after two cases of murders. After Gangahede was rounded up, staffers of the mental hospital went on a strike and staged an agitation. The situation was brought under control by hospital authorities, who promised every possible help to Gangahede.
 
 It’s learnt that the survivor, now lodged at Shraddhanand Anathalaya, had been admitted to the Mental Hospital on June 16 and discharged on July 19. After she returned to the orphanage, the survivor spoke about her exploitation by the male staffer of the mental hospital to one of the wardens, who informed the management on Thursday.
 
 The authorities took the survivor to Mankapur police station as the mental hospital is located within its jurisdiction. After recording the girl’s statement, Gangahede too was brought to the police station. The girl also told the orphanage authorities that she could not raise the issue at the mental hospital since Gangahede had threatened her with dire consequences.
 
 Mankapur police took the rape survivor to Mayo Hospital where she was examined by experts from gynaecology and psychiatric departments. The cops decided to lodge an offence after consulting senior doctors of Mayo Hospital.
 
 In-charge superintendent of mental hospital Dr Pravin Navkhede said the survivor was discharged on July 19. “She had been admitted for harming herself,” he said. “Only doctors are allowed access in the women's’ ward,” he said.
 
 Gangahede has been working at the hospital for the last one-and-a-half years after being recruited on compassionate grounds. He used to take the food trolley to the women's’ ward, where there were three female attendants.
 
 Police are now scanning through the CCTV footage of the place on July 14. It is learnt that Gangahede can be seen in the CCTV footage on the day at 7pm, entering the women’s ward with the food trolley, and leaving in 10 minutes after handing over the plates.
 
 Mental hospital staffers insist that the survivor is afflicted with various psychotic symptoms, while the orphanage authorities claimed otherwise. “The survivor was good in mathematics, drawing, and also keen on learning English. She is a good student and so cannot be claimed as mentally unsound,” said an orphanage source. However, orphanage authorities have admitted that she used to suffer hallucinations regarding a past male friend.
 
 
