BENGALURU: Years of protests by the Bengaluru   Okkuta and other organizations to give roadside vendors their due may soon bear fruit. On Sunday,   flagged off a survey of street vendors in the city under a programme that seeks to provide them facilities like pushcarts and godowns.

 The programme has been taken up under the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana ­National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM), a central government scheme that aims to improve the livelihood of workers in the unorganized sector.
 
 The survey is aimed at identifying vendors across eight zones -Dasarahalli, Yelahanka, RR Nagar, Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli, East, West and South. The survey began at   and will continue in other zones over the next month.
 
 One of the BBMP officials conducting the survey said: "After identifying all the vendors based on certain documents, they will be provided with provisions like credit for their business and basic amenities like godowns, water supply, toilets, pushcarts."
 
 "On completion of the survey, BBMP will digitize the data and send an SMS to each vendor. They will put up a provisional list of vendors at the ward offices and call for objections. Those whose names are left out can file objections and get their name listed," he added.
 
 Vinay Sreenivasa, a member of Bengaluru Jilla Beedhi Vyapari Sanghatanegala Okkuta, said: "The survey is free of cost for vendors and all they need to do is fill up a field form being provided by BBMP , along with relevant documents," he added.
 
 
 
 At the end of the first day, the survey was not satisfactory; several street vendors were left out due to frequent rain interrupting the procedure and lack of BBMP staff conducting the survey.
 
 Vinay said, "BBMP staff visited a couple of areas only once and missed out vendors who reached the survey spot later in the day. Some other areas were not covered at all.We will request the Palike to extend the survey for two more days to cover all street vendors in Dasarahalli zone."
 
