NAGPUR: A mélange of tribal dance performances from Central India were brought together on one stage. Hislop College, Civil Lines, hosted the Tribal and Folk Dance Festival as part of its heritage sensitization drive, sponsored by   (UGC).

 On Saturday and Sunday, Gond Nritya and Baiga Pardhani of  , Lingo nritya of Maharashtra and Panthi Nritya and Gour Madiya of Chattisgarh were presented. The groups sang native songs live on stage, sometimes without mic, with full gusto. Lingo nritya performers saw the men wearing bright yellow shirts and straw skirts whereas the women were dressed in maroon saris. Gour Madiya performers came with long drums, their costumes colourful and quirky. In all the performances, the headgears worn by the men were unique and bizarre, enhancing the experience of watching the performance. The songs were melodious and supported by a set pattern of drum beats. The formations on stage and the idea of community dancing were important features of the festival. Around 74 tribal artistes from Central India performed in the festival. The programme was compèred by All India Radio artiste Syed Shirin and faculty Jigisha Naidu.
 
 The festival was organized on occasion of Hislop College being granted a heritage status by UGC. It is the only college in Central India to conduct a UGC-sponsored certificate course in heritage and culture studies. As part of the heritage sensitization drive, a rally was conducted to introduce students to various heritage spots such as excavation sites in Ubali village, Kalmeshwar and Mansar; Nagardhan and Gavilgarh forts and Muktagiri temple. 
 
 An exhibition of heritage photographs was inaugurated by mayor   on Saturday. Principal Dipti Christian said, “We have about 500 books in the library which are more than 100 years old. We will be digitizing them. This initiative has been undertaken so that the youth of today can understand our rich heritage and culture,” she said. The college has also launched a certificate course — culture and heritage studies.
 
 The awareness drive was done in collaboration with St Ursula High School while the dance programme was conducted with support from South Central Zone Cultural Centre.
 
