MELBOURNE:   said Venus and   -the   finalists -will forget they're sisters the moment they step on court on Saturday. The Frenchman said it'll be a war. “It goes back to when they were 12 and playing monopoly, one lost and got really angry and wanted to kill her sister. At the same time they adore each other,“ Mouratoglou, who has guided the second seed to nine Grand Slam titles since they came together in the summer of 2012, said.“This is the same, it's a tennis match, they don't want to lose to anybody, and maybe even less to their sister.“

 The Williams sisters have played each other 27 times, with the 35-year-old Serena closing out 16 of the match-ups. She won their last meeting -in the quarters of the US Open -as also their last encounter here in the final in 2003. Melbourne Park was also the venue of their first encounter 19 Aussie summers ago. They've had enough practice as Mouratoglou suggested, to `block out' who was on the other side of the net.
 
 Serena, who appeared more excited that her older sister made the title round than when she crossed the semifinal hurdle herself, perhaps because that half of the storyline was expected, called Saturday's matchup “the moment of our careers“.
 
 Venus, 36, who has always looked out for her younger sibling, often took that role onto the court in their early years on the Tour, where during changeovers she wondered if `Serena was drinking enough fluids and doing what was necessary to keep her energy levels up'. This time she seems more in the moment, rather than racked by the prospect of facing her kid sister.
 
 “When on the court with her, I think I'm playing the best competitor in the game. I don't think I'm chump change either. I can compete against any odds. No matter what, I get out there and compete,“ Venus said. “My main goal is to execute my game.“
 
 On Friday, Venus followed Serena on to the practice court. Serena was out bright and early, Venus took her time. The 36-year-old, ranked 17, was diagnosed with Sjogren's syndrome, a chronic autoimmune disease that can cause fatigue and tiredness and lead to joint and muscle pain, in 2011, spending the next four years in relative wilderness.
 
 “After everything that Venus has been through with her illness and stuff, I just can't help but feel like it's a win-win situation for me. I was there for the whole time. We lived together. I know what she went through. I was always stressed out and worried if she would be okay and be able to play,“ Serena said. “It's the one time that I really genuinely feel like no matter what happens, I can't lose, she can't lose.“
 
 A hint of a role reversal there? Serena caring and protective?
 
 When the duo met 18 months ago, in the round of 16 at Wimbledon, where Venus won five of her seven Major titles, Serena looked across the net concernedly at her sister time and again, checking if she was ok. Venus, seeded 13, may have won just one of their four meetings since the diagnosis, in Montreal on hardcourts in 2014, but she's playing her best tennis in a long time here, even if the highest seed she beat en route to the final was Russian 24th seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.
 
 It's not necessarily the play rather the mentality that has set Venus apart in these championships. Against the heavy-hitting American Coco Vandeweghe in the semifinals, Venus set up the win with a combination of persistence and precision.
 
 “I'm versatile. I can adjust. I can do what I need to do to win a match,“ Venus smiled when recalling her scramble in the semifinals. “I feel comfortable when I'm uncomfortable. Even if I'm in a position where I don't want to be at, it's not going to throw me off.“
 
 When the sisters met here in the final in 2003, it was the `Serena Slam', this time it's Major No. 23 that the newly-engaged Serena is chasing. “Definitely interesting,“ Serena, easily the pick of the players here even as a veteran of the Tour, said.
 
 Then, the woman who announced her engagement to the world in a verse, said: “This is a story . This is something that I couldn't write a better ending. This is a great opportunity for us to start our new beginning.“
 
 
