COIMBATORE: Four men robbed a   of gold jewels worth Rs 8.85 lakh at knife point when he was on his way to Ooty in a taxi. 

 S Easwaran (47), a resident of   in Perur, has been running his business with the help of his family members for more than 20 years. At first he had a shop at town hall in the city, but for the past 15 years he has been working from home. He gets gold ingots from jewellery shops and based on the order makes jewels and hands them over. 
 
 One of the jewellery shops from which Easwaran as well as his relative N R Balu got orders from was   on   in Ooty. On Tuesday, at 10 am, he collected two gold necklaces weighing 155gm from Balu and also took his eight necklaces weighing 725 gm and went to the Mettupalayam bus stand. 
 
 As he parked his vehicle at the bust stand, he noticed a taxi with Ooty registration. He inquired with the driver and got into it. There were three other passengers in the car. Near Press Colony, two passengers got down for a while and when they returned made Easwaran sit between them. When the car resumed its journey, the men on either side pulled out knives, threatened Easwaran and snatched the jewels. They forced him to get down and fled. 
 
 Easwaran returned home, consulted his family and registered a case. Police officials at P N Palayam said the car was not a taxi and had a fake registeration. “The driver was part of the gang,” said superintendent of police S P Murthy. 
 
 Police also made inquiries with the owner of the Suraaj Jewellery and with Easwaran’s family members. “We will interrogate the workers at the jewellery shop to find out if any of them is involved in this case. We also checked the CCTV footage and found the video of one of the gang members. But his face is not clear. 
 
 We are also trying to check all the CCTV footage in the route to find out if there were other vehicles following the car. We are sure this was a planned robbery and someone had informed the men about Easwaran leaving for Ooty that day,” said Murthy adding that they had vital clues and they will crack the case soon.
 
