BENGALURU: Racing seems to have caught the fancy of Bengaluru college students. In recent times, many engineering students have showed their prowess at national-level competitions and brought laurels to their institutions. From designing their own go-karts to honing their skills, these students are all set to give a boost to the city's many racing teams. “Each day of the competition had certain hurdles which started from technical inspection and went on to braking, manouverability test and ended at an endurance race. We were the first team to clear technical inspection in the first day,“ said Akshit G, a team member. The semifinal was for 18 minutes and the team with the most number of laps could directly enter the finals.

 “Our kart was leading by 2 laps and by making 11 laps within the time frame, we made it to the finals. The top 4 teams had to finish 20 laps to win,“ Akshit said.
 
 AMC College students win at   event
 
 A 17-member team of the AMC College of Engineering recently bagged third prize at Elite Karting EK15, a national-level go-karting competition held at RPM Racing Circuit, Bhopal. Team Greasemonkeys was awarded for best design and best quality.
 
 
 
 
 Team Enigma --automotive club of PES Institute of Technology emerged winners at the Buddh International Circuit, Noida, and won second place in the innovation and design rounds. The team participated in two automotive events - BAJA SAE INDIA 2017 and ISIE HVC 2017 - from February 16 to 20. It won awards in the HVC event while it participated for the first time in the SAE BAJA, clearing at the 20th position of 650 teams. The 38-member team had students from II, III and IV years of mechanical, electronics and computer science engineering departments. “They worked for 8 months to build the formula racing cars. The HVC is a hybrid vehicle which can run both on motor or engine while SAE is an all-terrain vehicle,“ said S V Satish, professor, department of engineering.
 
 
 
 
 To bridge gaps on digital skills among students, Adobe has come up with its first   (CoE) at New Horizon College of Engineering. A course on Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) has been incorporated into the curriculam.
 
 Kulmeet Bawa, managing director at South Asia, Adobe, said: “India's digital transformation wave has triggered a digital mindset in organizations, making businesses keener than ever to leverage the benefits of technology to drive growth. This, coupled with the government's focus on initiatives such as Digital India and Skill India, has created a huge opportunity for educational institutes to adapt their curriculum to meet the needs of the digital landscape.“
 
 “Corporates expect colleges to prepare budding engineers on next-generation technologies and domains. We have come up with digital technology, state-of-the-art centre of excellence with Adobe to improve employability skills of students as engineers and managers in the global market,“ said Dr Mohan Manghnani, chairman, New Horizon College of Engineering.
 
 
 
 
 Ashwa Racing, a student Formula Prototype team from  , has launched its two prototypes -the combustion and hybrid version for 2017 -the ARF-RZX7-CO and ARF-RZX7HY. Since 2005, the team has been building 600cc Formula Race cars for Formula SAE events where universities from across the globe participate. The 13-yearold student-run platform enables students to experience combustion hybrid and electric technology. The organization has diversified into developing open-source vehicle technology and eco-friendly transportation solution -Hyperloop. Ashwa Mobility Foundation comprises a team of undergradu ate engineers who conceptualize, design and fabricate formula-style race cars, which compete both at national and international events with teams from some of the best universities around the world. The combustion division will compete in the Italian edition of Formula Student Programme from July 19 to 23, 2017.
 
