Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday stayed the Medical Services Recruitment Board’s (MSRB) move to fill 2,500 assistant civil surgeon vacancies in Tamil Nadu.

 Justice T Raja granted the stay on a petition filed by A Sagaya Panimalar from Virudunagar. The petitioner said the MSRB had issued a notification on November 10, 2016 to fill up 1,223 vacancies, including 144 backlog vacancies for physically challenged people for the post of assistant civil surgeon, based on which it conducted a written examination on February 12, 2017. Thereafter, it completed certificate verification and selected candidates who are in service at present.
 
 Now, the MSRB without following procedure, including issuing advertisement and conducting examination started the recruitment process to fill up 2,500 posts of assistant civil surgeon. It is doing certificate verification based on the notification issued on November 10, 2016. The certificate verification started on July 5 and ends on July 18. The MSRB is not supposed to hold recruitment drive, the petitioner said.
 
 The petitioner was unable to apply for the post on an earlier occasion. Because, as per condition given in the 2016 November notification of MSRB, a candidate has to get registered his/her name with the Tamil Nadu Medical Council before issuance of the notification. Then the petitioner did not fulfil that condition. Following it, the petitioner is eagerly waiting for fresh notification for filling up of assistant civil surgeon post. There are many people like the petitioners to apply for the post. 
 
 Hence, it is necessary to restrain the MSRB from making further steps to fill 2,500 vacancies and direct it to make recruitment following due procedure by issuing a fresh notification and conducting written examination, the petitioner prayed. 
 
 Following it the court stayed the MSRB to fill up the posts and ordered notice to the heath secretary, director of medical and rural health services and member secretary of MSRB. It adjourned the case to July 27.
 
 
