Indore: Minutes into sundown on Monday, crowds waited anxiously for the stadium gates to open. The thumping sound of the bass only added to the tense atmosphere inside Holkar Stadium, venue for the   match between Kings XI Punjab and Royal Challengers Bangalore.

 Red and red-black, the theme colours of the two teams, eclipsed Race Course Road. Apart from incessant honking from crawling traffic, the only thing audible was fans’ screams, air horns and beating drums as cops ushered them into the stadium.
 
 Watching the crowd from a distance, it was difficult to make out the crowd favourites as several heads could be seen wearing red.
 
 People waited by the roadside to get their faces painted by hawkers who walked around with bottles of paint and brushes in their hands.
 
 Colourful headgear, fluttering flags and team slogans rent the air. The atmosphere was electric. It didn’t matter that the local team, Royal Challengers Bangalore, was not playing.
 
 “This is the second match and I hope Punjab wins because I love Maxwell,” said Sarang Sharma a KXIP fan.
 
 Despite KXIP making Holkar stadium its home ground, Monday’s match saw more RCB supporters and Kohli’s craze reigned supreme here after his unforgettable knock during the maiden test here.
 
 “We are Kohli fans and can’t help it if we have to cheer his team. Nonetheless, I will also cheer for KXIP if they win as Indore got three IPL matches because of them,” said Chirag Pandey, a cricket buff from the city.
 
 A large family from Indore, dressed in red, held a banner that read ‘We love you Virat’. Once the match began there was no turning back, the full house at Holkar did not remain silent for even a second.
 
 The stadium looked beautiful with floodlights as Indoreans once again did something unique to surprise players and viewers watching at home. A few minutes into the match, thousands of mobile flash lights went off as excited spectators made it another memorable moment at the stadium. The act was termed as “touch wave” which began in Holkar stadium during the India-South Africa match in 2015.
 
 
