NEW DELHI: If a jawan or officer of a police department, central paramilitary force or central agency has a paunch and his other medical fitness parameters are not satisfactory, he could be denied President's Police Medal for distinguished and meritorious services, considered the highest recognition for valour in the police.

 The MHA order on Wednesday stated that police personnel should be physically fit and must be in what it described as 'Shape 1' category to be considered for the President's police medal. This category is the highest level of fitness in terms of psychological health, hearing, appendages, physical capacity and eyesight and implies that they can be posted for any duty. Physically fit would also mean no flab, and certainly not a some law enforcement officer with a potbelly.
 
 The guidelines issued by MHA for states/UTs paramilitary forces says officers who do not have a clean image in their department should not be recommended for a police medal.
 
 Guidelines have been sent to all state police departments, forces like NSG, CISF, BSF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and agencies like RA&W, IB, CBI, NIA etc, and it has been made clear that those tasked with law enforcement and investigation have to be physically fit if they have to be considered for the medals. It asked the sponsored organisation to issue a separate certificate on medical fitness after receiving medical physical fitness from authorised medical officer while recommending the person for medal.
 
 The government said it will issue separate guidelines on fitness shortly. The circular added relaxation for “Shape 2“ can be given only in exceptional circumstances. “Shape 2“ is fit for all duties but may have limitations as to the type of duties and areas of employability depending on whether the duties involve severe stress or demand acuity of hearing or vision. There are other categories in services like Shape 3, 4, 5 and lower medical category , in which various conditions of recruitsofficers are mentioned by medical experts of respective forcesagencies.
 
 Both the distinguished and meritorious services medals are seen as recognition for a law enforcement official's services to the country and public. An officer who gets the distinguished services medal, is entitled to around Rs 2,500 per month increase in their salary and pension, while the ones who bag the meritorious services medal get a certificate. The medals have often come under criticism. A police officer said some have complained that medals are recommended by respective forces to those close to top brass, or are awarded to certain units like anti-terrorism squads in state police though a constable on patrol duty serves the nation equally .
 
 The ministry has also specified length of service, minimum of 18 years for a police medal for meritorious service and 25 years for the President's police medal for distinguished service, for all police officers irrespective of rank and service. Some officials, however, told TOI that making a rule of not giving a medal to a person who is intelligent and efficient but has a paunch would be “discriminatory“.
 
