AHMEDABAD: “The biggest threat to a world heritage city in a country like India is gentrification,“ says Dr  , an internationally-renowned academic and executive director of the International Institute for the Inclusive Museum. Dr Galla was speaking at the three-day international conference on heritage management and education at Ahmedabad University.

 He emphasized that it was important to first communicate the meaning of a world heritage city tag to the locals occupying Ahmedabad's Walled City. 
 “Today the ancient city of Hoi An, Vietnam, which is mostly inhabited by the poor, can be a very good case study for Ahmedabad,“ Galla said. “Every individual in the 42,000 settlement consisting of 1,390 heritage properties had become a partner in the process when Unesco first inscribed the zone in 1998.“ He said, “After the poor neighbourhood of Hoi An was inscribed, visitors increased three-fold.Visitors come to a world heritage city to experience the cultural and living environment or `Vatavarnam' of the place not to eat burger,“ Galla said. Today Hoi An hosts some 2.3 million visitors, which is more than local population and by 2020 is al ready looking at an FDI of US 1.5 illion.
 
 He adds that in Hoi An, since the local people actively take part in the process of conservation, they are benefiting from it. The revenue generated from the busines ses is ploughed back into the process of conservation.
 
 Dr Galla was appointed by Unesco to help Hoi An draw up a better heritage management plan.
 
 He emphasised further on making the   a decent liveable space. `Proper electricity, civic infrastructure, sanitation, should be ensured,“ said Galla. He even cited examples of the   bread and breakfast association of Kochi fort, which has been successful in managing homestays and catering to visitors needs. “Ahmedabad should study the Kerala model,“ Galla said.
 
 Conservation experts like   emphasized on the need of climate change expertise in the heritage sector. He cited examples in northern Europe.Other experts who spoke at the seminar included Barsha Dutta Bhojani, Michael Joseph Kimball from US, Punto Wijayanto from Indonesia.
 
