CHANDIGARH: The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directed the New India Assurance company to refund Rs 68,568 and pay Rs 20,000 as compensation for not giving the complete amount under the claim to the complainant after taking refuge of terms and conditions of the policy.

 Bindu Duggal, a resident of Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra, Chandigarh stated in her complaint that she and her son were insured with   and were assured a total sum of Rs 2 lakh.
 
 She shared that her son suffered from dengue, while pursuing his MBA at Mumbai, and was admitted in Nanavati Hospital, Mumbai on October 14, 2015. After treatment, he was discharged on October 20, 2015.
 
 She paid an amount of Rs.1.15 lakh to the hospital from her own pocket during the course of the treatment. She then filed for the claim with the company. However, to her surprise, they only gave Rs 46,453 from the total amount. She alleged that they illegally deducted the amount of Rs 68,568 without any justification. She approached the company to pay her the balance amount but to no avail.
 
 The insurance company in its reply stated while going through the documents, the claim was dealt in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy and certain deductions were made in the amount as claimed. They added that they allowed the reasonable amount of expenses towards the claim of the complainant. “The said claim was reviewed prior to taking the final decision and it was observed that the deductions made are correct and the same is not payable as per the terms and conditions of the policy,” they added.
 
 The forum held that there was no concrete evidence showing that the terms and conditions were actually delivered to the complainant. It granted the complainant to be rightfully entitled to the balance amount of which was arbitrarily deducted, on account of which the complainant had certainly suffered a lot.
 
 The company was directed to pay a balance amount of Rs 68,568, Rs 20,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs 10,000 as costs of litigation to the complainant.
 
