BHOPAL: A squabble between   and   (MPFA) has robbed the state of a gender first. Women referees were supposed to officiate in the West zone inter-university men's football tournament, but the head of   referee's board tripped up the high hopes, barring women from officiating in any of the matches. 

 It would have been an all-woman show - from scorers to referees and ball girls - at the men's tourney but MPCA threw a spanner. After the restrictions, one of the woman referees did not turn up and the other three feared a ban on them. After assurances from authorities of BU - where the tournament is being held - they agreed to officiate a few matches, but with apprehension. BU's director of sports, Akhilesh Sharma, blamed MPFA for "spoiling an opportunity for women referees". "I doubt if MPFA is working for welfare of football. Restricting these officials is the example of this," said Sharma. "  where women can officiate in Bhopal are almost negligible. West zone was an opportunity for them. By this we wanted them to get better experience. But they were barred," said Sharma.
 
 Rather than a gender issue, the controversy was triggered by a fracas between MPFA and BU after the association cancelled postings of referees for the tournament. BU authorities said the   is "playing games with them". "We requested MPFA to field women referees for higher responsibilities, but it fielded a referee from outside. How will the women learn when others get the opportunity? This tournament is for students and not for professionals. These women officials have been our students and they are our priority," said Sharma.
 
 Naqvi rejected the charges made by BU. "We wanted to deploy a neutral referee for the tournament, which BU did not like," said Naqvi. About allegations of "restricting" women referees, Naqvi did not give any explanation but said: "It is true that we have asked them to not to officiate in tournament. We have asked them to take permission before officiating in any match of the tournament."
 
 Pointed out that women referees were losing an opportunity to officiate in a national tournament, Naqvi shot back: "I know better about these women referees than Mr Sharma." 
 
 
