PATNA:   president   on Tuesday said the   government would soon take coercive steps for   and political propriety and against black money. 

 Shah was in Patna to release 15-volume ‘Deendayal Sampoorn Wangmaya’, a compilation of the works of Bharatiya   founder Deendayal Upadhyaya.
 
 The BJP boss did not utter a word on the upcoming UP election and made only a passing reference to the party’s ‘Ram Janmabhoomi’ campaign. 
 
 “The landmark decision of demonetisation taken by the Modi government will benefit 80 crore poor people. Continuing its fight against black money, the central government will soon initiate steps for electoral reforms and political propriety and against black money in politics. Steps will also be taken to ensure transparency in political funding,” he said and added the saffron party would now on spend bare minimum on elections.
 
 The BJP national president arrived at the Patna airport around 11am and went straight to Takhat Sri Harmandir Sahib where he paid obeisance to Guru Gobind Singh. He then visited the state BJP office for a brief interaction with senior leaders, including state president Nityanand Rai.
 
 Leader of opposition in legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI Shah was also scheduled to hold a meeting with the state BJP’s core committee, but the meet could not be held due to paucity of time.
 
 At the book release function at S   later, Shah talked about the Centre’s ambitious schemes for the welfare of the poor. “Around 27 crore accounts were opened under the Jan Dhan scheme in one and a half years while 1.37 crore people gave up their LPG subsidy under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana. Of the five crore people in rural areas targeted to be provided LPG connection by the Centre by 2019, 1.37 crore people have already been benefited,” he said.
 
 Talking about the birth of Jana Sangh and its ideologies, Shah said, “Immediately after independence, many people believed that the Nehru government’s policies were inclined towards westernisation and imperialism. Established to give a platform to alternative ideologies, the Jana Sangh advocated the idea of rebirth of the same nation with its geo- cultural unity while the post-independence governments wanted to create a new nation. It’s a matter of pride that the Jana Sangh has expanded from 10 members to 11 crore people, influencing national and world events.”
 
 
