AURANGABAD: Middlemen and self-declared “social workers”, who try to influence poor patients and their relatives by assuring quick access to healthcare services, are real troublemakers at the   and Hospital, senior hospital officials said.

 While a crackdown is being planned, authorities said these social workers exert pressure on hospital staff, leading to skirmishes and pressure situations.   officials have appealed to patients not to trust any “outsiders”, stressing that the hospital is committed to offer healthcare services to all patients.
 
 “Patients and their relatives need to understand that no recommendation or outside help is required for availing healthcare facilities at GMCH. Patients should trust hospital staffers and avoid falling prey to outsiders,” top hospital officials said.
 
 Established in 1956, the GMCH, Aurangabad not only serve to patients from eight districts of Marathwada, but also from Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbar, Buldhana and Ahmednagar districts. On an average 2,100 patients visit outdoor patient department of the state-run hospital every day.
 
 Narayan Kankate, member of medical advisory committee of GMCH, said the “social workers” in question are often accompanied by a group of well-built persons. “Without any authorisation, these social workers enter emergency wards and other departments. The hospital staff cannot resist such a group on their own,” he said.
 
 Kankate said police should conduct surprise raids at GMCH   and casualty section to nab such miscreants. “Such raids were conducted in past also and it brought some check on the movement of miscreants,” he said. 
 
 Ram Budhwant, another member of medical advisory committee at GMCH, said resident doctors and other staff should not hesitate to raise voice against bullying and pressure tactics of social workers.
 
 “Someone has to raise voice against the presence of such trouble makers. The resident doctors or GMCH administration should immediately approach the police station, which is a stone’s throw away from the OPD and casualty in case they are subjected to harassment from miscreants,” he said.
 
 While the OPD runs between 9am and 1pm daily, it has been suggested that the OPDs should also be run in the second half of day too as is done in the metros. “The current OPD timings cannot cater to huge rush of patients. This leads to some patients approaching the middlemen for easy access to healthcare,” advocacy groups said.
 
 GMCH administration said OPD is operated as per available staff and its timing cannot be extended currently. 
 
