Nagpur: Budding   player Amir Khan feels Hindustani classical music is such a treasure trove that it would take generations more to fully unravel its beauty. Speaking to TOI before his performance at SCZCC’s Brahmanaad on March 12, the artist says, “Classical music has its own niche audience who come prepared to hear it. The artists too do not try much to waver from the path as we too are still in the process of learning.”

 The 25-year-old musician learnt to play sarod from his grandfather Ustad Abdul Latif Khan who was a renowned sarangi player. Amir, a seventh generation musician, feels the struggle is equal weather you are a lone learner or have a lineage. “For people like us, it is tough as when we do well the credit goes to our family and if we do not perform well then it is said that, ‘Khandan ka naam kharab kar diya”, he says. His father Nafiz Ahmad Khan, a   too faces similar sentiments. “If I play well they say, ‘Bete ka saath nibha raha hai’ so every time we both are on stage I pray to god to protect our family name,” he says and adds, “I am lucky to have accompanied my father and now my son on stage at Nagpur.”
 
 Khan, whose family lives in Bhopal, began learning sarod from the age of seven. “Once my father took me to Bharat Bhavan for Ustad Amjad Ali Khan’s concert and I fell in love with sarod,” he says. Why didn’t he become a disciple of the maestro himself? “He is an iconic musician who has made sarod so popular all over the world. But he is very busy too. So I learnt from his elder brother Ustad Rehmat Ali Khan,” says Amir and adds that no matter who plays, sarod belongs to Madhya Pradesh. “There are only two gharanas of sarod, Maihar and Bangash,” he adds.
 
 Here the grandfather, father and son play three different instruments, sarangi, sarod and tabla. “I began playing tabla as being a family of musicians a tabla   is required for saath sangat. What makes me happy is that in every generation we have musicians,” says Nafiz Ahmad.
 
 Though there have been more vocalists than instrumentalists, today the gap has narrowed and there are equal number of musicians playing instruments, says Amir. “I love singing and so my sarod has a gayaki ang. But young musicians today like to collaborate with western musicians and experimenting with music is easier with an instrument,” he says and adds, “There is also this trend of vocal and instrumental jugalbandis that the audience enjoy.”
 
 Another factor making a big difference to young musicians today is this era of multimedia, feels Amir. “Even as I perform at Nagpur on Sunday there will be people in the audience making videos and uploading them on Facebook. This creates a buzz around the performance and makes us known,” he says adding, “But I stick to the age old method of networking with people and personally calling upon them as both methods are relevant today.”
 
 
