Kolkata: Police on Tuesday told Calcutta high court that actor   Chatterjee had refused to share his cellphone number with them. When asked for contact details, the cops claimed Vikram had shared his father Bijay Chatterjee’s number and when investigators rung him up, they got the staple refrain that Vikram wasn’t there. Police claimed they had raided Vikram’s Swinhoe Lane home several times but never found him.

 Public prosecutor Shaswata Gopal Mukherjee’s submissions came at a pointed poser by Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Debi Prosad Dey, when the bench asked him to elaborate his charge that Vikram’s “non-cooperation” had necessitated the arrest. The Alipore court had, only a day before, remanded Vikram in a fortnight’s judicial custody. The high court was hearing a plea filed by senior criminal lawyer  , who questioned the “overzealous and highly irregular arrest” made hours after the same HC bench on Thursday set a July 13 date to hear Vikram’s anticipatory bail plea. The HC will hear the matter again on Wednesday.
 
 Basu’s submissions zeroed in on the fact that the non-bailable culpable homicide charge against Vikram was added on May 30. This prompted Vikram to file an anticipatory bail plea within a week on June 5. For the next 31 days police, Basu argued, cops never felt the need to arrest Vikram. “They did so only after the HC fixed a date. Had the HC rejected the plea, we would have accepted the judgment with all humility. Their overzealousness only indicates their hurry to render the anticipatory bail plea infructuous,” he told the bench.
 
 Majumdar argued: “According to   amendment to Section 438 (1) CrPC it has been explicitly mentioned that merely an anticipatory bail plea made either in HC or a sessions court cannot insulate anyone from arrest or detention. The officer-in-charge of a police station can authorize both in absence of any court order on the applications made. In this case only a plea has been filed.... Many such applications are rendered infructuous due to arrests or detention, what is so special about this case? The police were on the lookout. They had kept on surveillance. He was arrested when they could locate him. The timing is mere coincidence.”
 
 Justice Dey quizzed the lawyers on the legal implications of arrest given the fact that Vikram had already surrendered in court and was granted bail on the earlier charges. Both Basu and Majumdar then agreed that legal statutes and several orders by the apex court, even by Calcutta HC, didn’t bar any arrest after culpable homicide not amounting to murder charges slapped afresh on May 30. 
 
 
