CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked Haryana government to produce records where the public prosecutors had expressed their satisfaction regarding withdrawal of some criminal cases registered in various districts during violence that had taken place in the February 2016 Jat agitation for reservation in government jobs.

 A division bench comprising Justice S S Saron and Justice Avneesh Jhingan passed the orders after observing some inconsistencies in the affidavit filed by Haryana government before the   informing about state’s decision to withdraw some cases.
 
 An affidavit filed by Nitin Yadav, secretary (home), stated that district authorities had recommended withdrawal of 137 cases registered during the February 2016 violence. A detailed chart containing district-wise chart was also produced before the HC.
 
 The state government’s affidavit mentioned that after receiving representations from some accused, who were facing prosecution and had been claiming innocence, it decided to withdraw the cases against them to pave way for bringing “brotherhood, harmony and peace among various communities in the state and to curtail futile litigation.”
 
 Counsel for the state government further told the court that all such cases were of minor occurrences, a formal request before the trial courts of concerned districts would be made through the public prosecutors for withdrawal of these cases after HC’s nod.
 
 Strongly objecting to that, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is assisting the HC as amicus curiae, told the court that Haryana also wanted to withdraw those cases, which were termed of serious nature by the   and it couldn’t be permitted.
 
 Hearing the case, Justice Saron observed that he hoped the state was not withdrawing the cases out of some ‘settlement.’ He also asked the counsel for the state to produce the opinions of public prosecutors regarding withdrawal of cases, as the prosecution of any case can be withdrawn only on the satisfaction of the public prosecutors.
 
 As the state counsel failed to satisfy the court on this, the bench has asked the state to produce records in this regard. While adjourning the hearing of the case for August 17, the HC also made it clear that the issue regarding constitution of SIT to monitor investigation of the cases would also be discussed on the next date.
 
