KOLKATA: The ground beneath her feet made way for an underwater architectural marvel, but bank employee Ruchi Jha, who can hope for a hassle-free travel and much shorter time on the road once the East-West Metro came through, did not have any inkling about it.

 Around 8pm on Friday, even as the Howrah’s Bandhaghat resident reached the jetty in front of   after taking a ferry across the Hooghly from Babughat, a machine weighing 1,100 tonne, scooped out the first rock from beneath the river bed. “What?” she was taken aback when told that a   (TBM) had started creating a 700-m cavity below the river bed for the East-West Metro link. “I did not feel a thing,” she said, excitement evident in her voice, probably surprised that such a “wonder” was quietly taking place in a city that hardly witnesses infrastructure projects of this stature.
 
 Ruchi was not alone, nobody on the surface had the foggiest idea what was happening below the ground. “I did not feel the ground shake and even the authorities did not take any precaution on the road, which could have hinted at the major work taking place underground. But I am happy this is happening. Metro will minimise the load of surface transport, which will be of huge relief to us,” said Mohammed Irshad, a civic police volunteer outside Howrah station.
 
 The TBM, called Prerna, which touched below the river bed on the Howrah-end on Friday morning, will drill non-stop over the next few months to bore a tunnel under water across the Hooghly to reach Strand Road on the opposite side. This tunnel is meant for trains from Howrah to Kolkata. The other TBM, Rachna, is yet to start its work on the Kolkata-Howrah tunnel, still being stationed some distance from the river.
 
 But the tunnel boring did not demand a single traffic diversion or train schedule alteration even as more than 150 people worked on the tunnel below. Though none of the citizens were aware of the development, those working at the Howrah ferry ghat, which is under the transport department, knew about the tunnel boring. “I was really apprehensive about it,” said Jayanta Saha, a junior engineer. “We had been hearing over the past week that the work on the tunnel would start shortly. When I learnt that the beginning was today, I was really scared. After all, how is it possible to penetrate the river bed? But when it happened in the evening, we did not feel a thing,” said a much-relieved Saha.
 
 Around seven years ago, when the under-river plan was first proposed for the East-West Metro, many of Jayanta’s colleagues had a good laugh about it. After all, how was it possible to drill through the river bed? Biswa Narayan Biswas, the man behind the ticket window at the Howrah ferry ghat, was one of those, who did not believe it was possible. “A senior official from the transport department was part of the Metro Rail project. When he had shown us the entire plan, we had laughed at the impracticality of it. I can’t believe something I had ridiculed then is now a reality,” Biswas said. 
 
 But for the engineers working on the project, who have been executing the delicate work of bringing the TBM to the river bed over the past few days, it did not make much of a difference. “It was just another day in office for us,” smiled a senior engineer. 
 
