BHOPAL: Kapil Mishra’s allegations against Arvind Kejriwal caused a flutter in   (AAP) state unit, which boasts of more than one lakh volunteers. Though volunteers are not doubting integrity of Kejriwal, state office is flooded with questions about internal stability in the party.

 Though party sources claim after the   episode, party volunteers closed ranks, the recent turns of events adversely impacted the morale. After successfully carrying out protests against the power tariff hike across the state, the party had initiated a statewide ‘Kisan Yatra’ from April 14 for reaching out to farmers. 
 
 The party is working hard in the state for one year to form an organisation and appointed booth-level office-bearers nearly at 50% of the polling booths, party sources said. 
 
 There are around 30,000 office-bearers of the party in the state, including 25,000 booth-level office-bearers. The remaining are senior block and district-level office-bearers, source said. 
 
 Besides, the party has a list of around 75,000 volunteers all across the state. They are not volunteers, who were enrolled in previous years. They are active volunteers, source said. 
 
 “The recent turn of events beginning from Punjab assembly polls, MCD results, the Kumar Vishwas issue and now the Kapil Mishra issue seriously impacted the morale of our fellow workers,” said an active office-bearer of the party in a district, on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 “I personally know at least 6 active office-bearers at district-level, who have become dormant after these developments. No one is quitting the party and no one is asking any question about the integrity of Kejriwal. After Kapil Mishra’s allegation that Kejriwal took a bribe of Rs 2 crore, volunteers came closer, but a series of events have left an adverse impact on the morale as a whole,” said the party office-bearer. 
 
 Another office-bearer from a district claimed, “The way we picked up the power issue and then started off with the Kisan Yatra, things would have been different if MCD, Kumar Vishwas and Kapil Mishra episodes had not taken place. We have not lost the hope.” 
 
 Joint secretary of the party’s state unit, Dushyan Dangi, however said, “There are no questions about our leader Arvind Kejriwal and these incidents will not have any impact in Madhya Pradesh. We are building our organisation and like our power tariff campaign, the ongoing Kisan Yatra is getting a good response from the farmers across the state.” 
 
