HYDERABAD: On World Cancer Day, on Saturday, while many chose to highlight latest innovations and diagnostic techniques to treat the disease, some experts from the city decided to put focus on vaccines that can prevent cancers - Hepatitis B and human papillomavirus (HPV). While Hepatitis B viral infection can cause liver cancer and cirrhosis (abnormal liver condition), HPV is known to cause cervical cancer among women. 

  Both these cancers are, however, preventable through vaccines. Yet, the cancer burden of the two diseases is huge with   showing a prevalence rate of more than 3 per cent among people. 
 
 Cervical cancer, meanwhile, contributes approximately 6-29 per cent of all cancers among women. 
 
 "More than general population, besides household contacts of patients with Hepatitis B, healthcare workers, patients on hemodialysis, diabetic patients and sexually active individuals with multiple partners are at a high risk of acquiring Hepatitis B infection. They must get vaccinated," advised Dr Guru N Reddy, chief of gastroenterology department and chairman, Continental Hospitals.
 
 Though Hepatitis B vaccine forms part of the   (UIP) and given free of cost to infants since 2007, Dr Guru N Reddy said that those left out should take 'catch up vaccination' -- especially below 19 years of age. What's worse, detection of Hepatitis B infection is difficult as the disease is said to remain asymptomatic (without showing any symptoms) for as long as 15-20 years. "The infection usually comes to light when patients develop either cirrhosis or liver cancer but by then, it is usually too late," said Dr KS Somasekhar Rao, senior consultant gastroenterologist,  . However, in case of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, that can transform into cervical cancer, the affected lot are only women. But, experts blame poor awareness for its incidence. In fact, the   (WHO) recommends pre-teen and women between 9-26 years to get a HPV vaccine as a must for protecting themselves from cervical cancer.
 
  "This virus is sexually transmitted. So, HPV vaccination is ideal for a woman before one gets married. In women, 99% of cervical cancers are due to HPV virus," said Dr   V, senior consultant gynaecologist, adding that on an average, 200 women die of cervical cancer a day in India.
 
 Ironically, like Hepatitis B, HPV infection too is difficult to diagnose. 
 
