NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: 
  on Sunday justified 
  even as he admitted that the decision he had taken was ‘tough’.

 “Sometimes to protect the ones you love you must make the right decision. What I did today was a tough decision but one that I had to take,” Akhilesh said in a tweet.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, the battle between the two factions of   is likely to reach the Election Commission, with Akhilesh camp hinting that it will stake a claim to the party’s symbol ‘cycle’.
 
 The party split on Sunday with a national convention declaring 
  , a post that was held by his father  .
 
 The convention also made Mulayam Singh, the Samajwadi party’s founder, the patron of the party.
 
 However, this was just the beginning. As the day progressed, the f 
  , with supporters of the two groups fighting for the party office.
 
 And while the supporters clashed on the streets, both Mulayam Singh and his son Akhilesh continued to precipitate the crisis with expulsions.
 
 Meanwhile, news agency ANI reported that doctors have conducted a health check-up of Mulayam Singh Yadav at his residence after complaint of high blood pressure.
 
 
 
 After Akhilesh was declared the SP’s national president at today’s national convention, he removed   as Samajwadi Party’s   unit chief and appointed MLC Naresh Uttam in his place.
 
 Ram Gopal Yadav, who had convened the meeting, moved a proposal to make his cousin Mulayam the party patron.
 
 But Mulayam said the decisions taken at the convention were “unconstitutional and illegal” and expelled Ram Gopal for six years, just a days after he reinstated him after his first expulsion.
 
 “Today a so-called convention has been convened by Ram Gopal. This is against party constitution and discipline. This has been convened to damage the party,” Mulayam said in a letter he issued after the meeting got underway at the Janeshwar Misra park.
 
 Although Mulayam warned that participation in the convention will be taken as indiscipline and action will be initiated against those attending it, almost all the senior leaders who had been longtime associates of Mulayam shared the dias with Ram Gopal and Akhilesh.
 
 Mulayam later expelled party’s national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda and senior leader Naresh Agrawal for attending the convention called by the Akhilesh camp. Nanda had chaired the national convention.
 
 In a letter to Nanda, Mulayam said he took part in the “emergency national representatives’ convention” which is not only “unconstitutional but also amounts to anti-party activities”.
 
 Citing Section 14(2) of the party constitution, a senior party leader said the convention was not called by the national president (Mulayam Singh) and despite being a senior member, Nanda took part in it.
 
 
 
 
 Soon after being proposed as the national president of the party,   said his respect for his father was greater than ever and that he would stand against those conspiring against the party.
 
 “Those who conspired against the party, damaged it and also posed problems before the national president…should know that my respect for the national president (Mulayam Singh) will be more than before,” the chief minister said.
 
 “…People might raise questions and level allegations but I said this before and say it again that as his son if there is any conspiracy against the party and him it is my duty to stand against them”, he said.
 
 
