KOLKATA
  will phase out at least four cars in its existing portfolio over the next three-four years to pare the current number of platforms from six to two by 2020-21. The models that are likely to be at the end of their life cycle are:  , Indica, Indigo CS and Sumo. Production of Sumo Grande, a derivative of the Sumo — one of the earliest passenger vehicles from Tata Motors that was introduced more than 25 years ago — has already ceased.
 
  Speaking to TOI, Tata Motors marketing head (passenger vehicle business) Vivek   confirmed that the company aimed to retain just two platforms and developed various models on them. “At present, we have 10 cars in the portfolio, including the newly introduced compact sedan Tigor. Till 2019-20, we will launch at least four new cars without increasing the size of our portfolio. This will mean phasing out of some of the existing cars,” he said.
  
  Nano has been in the news in recent times with ousted Tata Sons chairman Cyrus Mistry unambiguously stating that its production needed to be stopped to stem the company’s loss. The ‘world’s cheapest car’ was a brainchild of Tata Sons chairman emeritus   and is believed to be one of the several irreconcilable differences that led to Mistry’s acrimonious departure from the Tata group. But it appears to have been a realisation in the Tata Motors management that Nano, having lost the ‘inexpensive’ USP, is a misfit in its attempt to reposition Tata Motors as a maker of stylish cars.
  
  The phaseout is not just strategic, it is also partly inevitable as new safety regulations that require crash test and BS VI emission norms kick in from 2018 and 2020 respectively. While Nano introduced in the markets only in 2010 never quite made the mark, Tata Motors has not been able to phase out Indica and Indigo CS as they continue to sell in the commercial segment. Once these are phased out, Bolt and Zest will be the offering to fleet buyers.
  
  “Before the launch of Tiago, well over 50% of our sales came from commercial fleet owners. Now, it has gone down to 30%. We hope to further reduce it to 20% as we reposition ourselves as a maker of primarily personal cars,” he said.
  
  Phasing out the older vehicles and unveiling new ones is crucial to Tata Motors’ overtaking Mahindra and grabbing the third spot among Indian automakers. Two of the new introductions are lined up in 2017-18 — compact SUV Nexon that was showcased at the Indian Auto Expo, and sports car TaMo Racemo that was unveiled at the Geneva Auto Show. Though Tatas haven’t revealed launch plans thereafter, sources said a premium large hatch to compete with Baleno, Hyundai i20 Elite and Honda Jazz and full-size sedan like Ciaz and Honda City is in the offing.
  
  “At present, the market coverage with the existing range is 50%. We will increase that to 70% with the introduction of Nexon,” Srivastava explained.
  
  Tiago, 
  , 
  and Nexon are expected to contribute to nearly three-fourth of the sales pie. Of this, a decent portion of sales is expected to be generated online, a recent realisation after 20% of the bookings for Tigor were received on the Internet.
