LUDHIANA: A day after two ASIs in Ludhiana were thrown out of police force over issuing challan to a girl, two   were suspended when finance minister Manpreet Badal caught one of them taking bribe near   canal. The minister recorded the entire sequence on his phone camera on Thursday afternoon and forwarded the video clip to Ludhiana police commissioner Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.

 After paying homage to martyrs  , Sukhdev and Rajguru at Hussainiwala, the minister was on his way to Chandigarh. He was driving his car with the customary red beacon and was not accompanied by escort or protocol vehicles. Near Khanna, Badal noticed a traffic cop near Gurthali bridge on Sidhwan canal, around 20 kilometers away from Ludhiana city.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Badal said, “There were some barricades near the bridge and traffic flow was slow. There, I noticed one traffic cop accepting bribe from a man. I recorded the sequence. When I questioned him, he apologized. However, I sent the video to Ludhiana CP to take action against him.”
 
 In the video, the cop, head constable  , can be seen pleading with minister to not complain against him. After receiving the compliant from minister, CP Singh inquired about the cop.
 
 “I learnt that two cops of Khanna police were deployed near Gurthali Bridge of Sidhwan canal under Doraha post. They were: Head constables Jagjit Singh and Manjit Singh. The one captured in the video of minister has been identified as Jagjit Singh. After identification the case has been referred to Khanna Police.”
 
 SSP Khanna Ranjit Singh said, “Talking immediate action, we have placed both HCs Jagjit Singh and Manjit Singh under suspension. A departmental inquiry has been marked in the case.”
 
 
 
 
 Ludhiana CP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has been raising the issue of traffic police making money in the name of issuing challans to drivers. After taking the charge recently, Kunwar had issued orders that the traffic police would not issue any challans for a month as a goodwill gesture and to create awareness about traffic rules. The order had come into effect on March 23. He had also said that if public followed traffic rules for one month, challaning drive will not be reinstated.
 
 
 
 
 According to written orders issued by CP Kunwar, the three traffic policemen have been issued premature retirement orders without three months’ notice. The three are ASIs Kulwinder Singh and Davinder Singh and head munshi Neel Kanth of the Ludhiana traffic police. After the issue grabbed headlines, the commissioner had claimed that there was a conspiracy against him to have him replaced. 
 
 
