NEW DELHI: In addition to a new campus for the   coming up in Dwarka,   has also approved in principle the purchase of DDA apartments at a cost of Rs 150 crore to be converted into   for students and residential quarters for staff members. These proposals were approved late on Tuesday at the meeting of the Executive Council, which is the highest decision-making body of the university.

 University sources that that in order not to allow a planned grant of Rs 150 crore to lapse, the administration set up a committee on February 25, 2017 to fine-tune a proposal for acquiring unsold DDA properties in Dwarka and converting them into accommodation for staff and students. Accordingly, the panel prepared the report and a discussion on it was included in the agenda of the EC meeting on Tuesday.
 
 “The EC approved the proposal in principle,” said AK Bhagi, member of the EC. “But there are other procedures that have to be approved by various authorities. The proposal will also have to be routed through the finance committee.” Bhagi added that the purchase would be undertaken by the union government under the planned grant and based on 2014 prices. “The university’s new colony will, as per the plans, have hostel facilities for students and staff housing. The land near this proposed colony, which belongs to DU, will be the site for the new law faculty campus,” said Bhagi.
 
 Teachers’ representatives in the EC also demanded the disbanding of the committee set up to ponder the matter of the centre’s scheme to grant autonomy to the constituent colleges of the university. They said such a panel had no statutory sanction. Rajesh Jha, EC member, said, “We opposed the imposition of the ‘autonomous colleges’ scheme in a secretively, bypassing the Delhi University Act, statutes and ordinances.”
 
 Jha characterised the direction given by the committee to the principals and college chairpersons to go ahead with the ‘autonomous colleges scheme’ as nothing more than a way to facilitate privatisation and commercialisation of education as well as the “contractualisation of teaching jobs”. “The university, which is pushing this agenda on behest of the central government, must desist from implementing this scheme,” he declared.
 
