Nagpur: Despite being indicted by a three-member committee of the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), plantation company   India has refused to replant 70,000 trees as directed by the civic body’s chairman Deepak Mhaisekar. BVG had planted 1.60 lakh saplings for   in 2012-13 and 2013-14. The company has turned the tables and blamed NIT for the poor show.

 BVG has told Mhaisekar that as per its contract it was to take care of the saplings only for two years. It was not liable to replant the saplings if they did not survive after the stipulated period. BVG had earlier replanted 21,000 saplings and is now ready for only another 10,000.
 
 A few months ago BJP MLC Girish Vyas had lodged a complaint with Mhaisekar accusing BVG of not planting the contracted number of trees and the survival rate of those planted was very poor. The chairman constituted a three-member committee in May this year under general manager Milind Salve with executive officer Sushant Zade and garden superintendent Balchandra Kokulwar as members.
 
 The committee found that BVG had not done its job properly and many officers had turned a blind eye towards its working. Twenty-five officers were issued show cause notices on the basis of the report while seven staffers were suspended. 
 
 Mhaisekar asked BVG to replant 70,000 saplings or face action. Earlier, in 2015 the Accountant General's (AG) office had estimated that Rs3.26 crores was wasted due to shoddy plantation work done by BVG. It had directed NIT to levy a fine of Rs3,000 per sapling on the agency but the civic officials refused to do so. 
 
 Mhaisekar has now asked the urban development department (UDD) to appoint botanical experts to probe the scam.
 
 A BVG spokesperson blamed NIT for poor survival rate of the saplings. “We had written 40-odd letters to NIT garden superintendent informing him of the destruction of saplings by animals as well as humans and uprooting of saplings by various agencies for road work, cable laying, etc. We did not get a single reply nor did NIT take any action,” she said.
 
 The spokesperson further said that neither NIT nor the institution where tree plantation was done, took care of the saplings. “NIT had written to about 150 institutions in this regard but apparently the concerned authorities took no cognisance of it. Only the National Academy of Direct Taxes and Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminium Research, Development and Design Centre took care of the saplings and there the saplings have grown into trees,” she added.
 
 Commenting on AG’s observation, the spokesperson said that the audit team had not visited 40% of the areas and hence its report was erroneous. “They left out the areas where we had done a good job,” she added.
 
 On BVG’s refusal to replant, NIT superintending engineer Satish Pasebandh said that the civic agency would take a decision only after the committee under Salve submitted its report. 
 
 Survival rate 80%!
 
 BVG India has claimed that survival rate of its plantation was as high as 80%. NIT says that the figure is only 47%. MLC Vyas has alleged that the number is even lower.
 
 “We do not deny that about 20% of the saplings may not have survived. However, our success rate is excellent in spite of all difficulties,” the spokesperson said.
 
 
