JAIPUR:   ( ) students fear that giving up ‘moderation’ by the board will decrease their chances of admissions in premier universities and   and other states.

 The state has adopted percentile formula for equalling scores of CBSE and RBSE students. This formula has already reduced the strength of CBSE students by 50% in state colleges.
 
 A petition was filed in the Delhi High Court challenging the 'moderation' decision of the CBSE by stating that it would be disastrous for the students. They reasoned that very few state boards in the country has taken concrete steps for dropping moderation of marks. The given up on moderation means not to award   to any students.
 
  (RBSE) has assured CBSE of not awarding any bonus marks to students in any case. In fact, the board to showcase fairness in the evaluating process, has restricted the checking of answersheets by the government teachers.
 
 RBSE measures have failed to impress the CBSE schools which have been demanding to scarp percentile formula. Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan states that difference between CBSE and RBSE student have been over 20% in the percentile formula.
 
 “Imagine a CBSE student with 90% didn’t get a seat whereas a RBSE student with 70% get a seat in the same category. Now, when CBSE is going away with moderation will further put the number of CBSE students down,” said Goyal.
 
 The news of moderation has feared students who are expecting class XII result in the coming days. Saurabh Singh of Jaipur who is eyeing to study in Delhi University feels that in the absence of uniformity in evaluating process will effect the cut-off list in central universities.
 
 “Is it’s a known fact that board differs in evaluating process than an entrance test must be introduced for every subject/stream. Those who are eligible will make it,” said Singh.
 
 Rashmi Jain, principal of Maharani’s College feels that every class should have students from diverse backgrounds which are required for holistic learning. State sees migration of its CBSE students for higher studies in cities like Bangalore, Delhi, Pune and Mumbai.
 
