Chandigarh: Valuable heritage furniture belonging to Chandigarh administration will again be auctioned at a London-based auction house on Wednesday that carries a cumulative price tag of about Rs 1.80 crore. There are a total of nine furniture items designed by Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret and French designer Le Corbusier that belong to Panjab University (PU) and Punjab and Haryana high court.

 A rare court's president armchair designed for the court complex in the year 1955-1956 has been priced at Rs 13 lakh while a set of 10 armchairs have been estimated to Rs 73.76 lakh.
 
 A study chair has been allocated at Rs 6 lakh, while a demountable bed has been priced at Rs 26 lakh. 
 
 A reading table and a cane seat wood back will cost Rs 30 lakh, while a pair of committee armchairs carries a price tag of Rs 34 lakh.
 
 Since 2007, a significant number of wooden items designed by Jeanneret and Corbusier have been auctioned in various countries abroad like France, US and England. These furniture products are purchased by foreigners at lower bids and later auctioned at much higher prices.
 
 On September 18, a total of six furniture items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 13 lakh at a US auction house. 
 
 On May 9, a total of six furniture items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 1.5 crore at Phillips, a London-based auction house, while on January 22, furniture items designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 65.26 lakh at Rago Arts and Auction Center, a trade house in New Jersey.
 
 On September 10, last year a total of eight items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 25 lakh at a New York auction house, while on June 10 four heritage furniture items designed by Le Corbusier were sold for Rs 1 crore at a New York auction house. The Chandigarh administration had last week sought a report of action initiated from directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) regarding smuggling of furniture designed by Le Corbusier and his cousin Pierre Jeanneret. 
 
 DRI has also written to the Punjab government to initiate action concerning antique smuggling. DRI had also arrested a Delhi-based exporter, on April 1 for allegedly abetting in trafficking antiques.
 
 The administration will ask Chandigarh police to put up the status report of the FIRs registered in last two years regarding theft of heritage and the DDR filed at the behest of CBI.
 
 
