PUNE:   on the road just outside the Pune airport   building may get worse in the coming days with authorities planning to block one half of this road for better security cover.

 The road, primarily used to drop off passengers at the departure gate, is about 2-meter wide. “If one half of this road is blocked for the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to guard the area, it will lead to chaos,” said   officials.
 
 “Things were manageable earlier with people having to pay a fees of Rs 85 if their vehicles were parked on the road for more than seven minutes. This rule was scrapped in October last year. Since then, the   situation has become worse on this road. During peak hours, it becomes completely clogged with vehicles as people take their own sweet time to get out of their vehicles,” an airport official, who did not wish to be named, said. 
 
 As the airport’s terminal building is being extended, things will not improve unless the Airports Authority of India (AAI) considers widening of the road from the entry to the exit point. “The extension work of the terminal building as well as that of road widening should be taken up simultaneously,” the official suggested. 
 
 As per plans, the terminal building will be extended by about six feet. “A decision on road widening can be taken within a week. However, that has not happened so far,” a source said, adding that the AAI had planned to hire private security guards to look into the traffic regulation, but things did not work out. 
 
 Each day, over 500 vehicles drop passengers at the airport.“The cars are parked haphazardly and there is absolutely no space for them to move to the exit point. It easily takes more than 20 minutes for a vehicle to leave the premises now against five minutes earlier,” A K Adhikari, a regular flier, said.
 
 Pune MP Anil Shirole, who is also the chairman of the Pune Airport Advisory Committee, said all things will be sorted out. “The airport expansion plan is important and has got all the aspects. Everything will be looked into and sorted out,” the MP said.
 
