PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Motorists can soon look forward to a non-stop drive through the Sangvi Phata chowk along the busy   BRTS route. 

 Rajan Patil, joint city engineer in the civic body, has said the flyover, grade separator and the subway at the chowk are nearing completion. Once these facilities are in place, the traffic signal at the chowk will disappear. 
 
 “Traffic movement will be fast between Sangvi and Kiwale when the flyover, grade separator and the subway are ready. This is the only chowk in the city that will have a flyover, grade separator and subway,” he said.
 
 The 8-km Sangvi-Kiwale BRTS road begins from Rajiv Gandhi bridge on the Mula river and ends at Mukai chowk in Kiwale. 
 
 The road is 45m long and has two bus rapid transit system (BRTS) lanes along the centre. Sangvi Phata is the first chowk on the road after one enters the municipal limits from Aundh in Pune city.
 
 The common road coming from old and new Sangvi meets the Sangvi-Kiwale BRT road at Sangvi Phata, a T-junction. If the residents of New and Old Sangvi have to go to Aundh, Chatushrungi, Pune University, Baner, Shivajinagar and other areas, the shortest route will be to reach Sangvi-Kiwale road at Sangvi Phata and proceed ahead. For a drive of around 2km from Sangvi phata to Rakshak chowk, no road joins the BRTS road
 
 Vehicles coming from Rakshak chowk to Sangvi phata have to stop at the signal. Further ahead, there is no crossing for around a kilometre till one crosses the Rajiv Gandhi bridge to reach Aundh.
 
 Two bus stations — Aundh hospital and CQAE gate — are located on the opposite side of the Sangvi phata chowk along the BRTS road. 
 
 “There are residential areas on only one side of the BRTS road. As a result, subways for pedestrians have been built. These subways will also help people alight from buses at these stops and cross the road to reach Aundh hospital, Sangvi and CQAE, among other places,”  , spokesperson of the BRTS cell, told TOI. 
 
 He added that construction work got delayed because the civic body needed land from the defence authorities and ESI hospital. 
 
 “We need the permission of the traffic police for making this chowk signal free. Once we get the permission, we will extend the dedicated BRTS corridor through the chowk.”
 
