Nagpur: It’s a completely uncharted territory for both, but Nagpur city police and CBSE schools’ association met on Friday to draft the process for conducting security audits of schools’ premises. 

 The almost hour long meeting between Nagpur Sahodaya Schools Complex (NSSC) and deputy commissioner of police Shweta Khedkar ended with a decision being made on the basic format to be followed for conducting the audit. 
 
 Khedkar asked schools to keep details of all their staff and infrastructure ready for the initial paper-based verification. “It’s a new concept even for us so we will take a few days to draft the template of evaluation parameters. The first thing we will require is the circular schools received from CBSE along with an application letter,” said Khedkar. 
 
 The meeting was a result of city police commissioner K Venkatesh’s offer to assist schools in getting the audit done. With CBSE giving a December 12 deadline to its schools to complete the audit and submit a report, all principals are racing against time to finish the process. 
 
 The points in CBSE circular will be used as a base by the police to frame the evaluation parameters for the  .
 
 Radhika Mehra, chairperson of the NSSC said, “This a great start and we appreciate the police’s willingness to work on the audit. We will pass on all information that is required by the cops as soon as possible so that they can make their plan of action. Our members will be advised to keep details of all teaching and non-teaching staff ready so that they can be given to the cops whenever demanded.” 
 
 CBSE’s directive about verification of personnel is not a major problem for the police as that’s something they are used to. Khedkar said, “We have the format ready for various things like passport and character certificates etc. That part can be started immediately with schools asking their staff to fill up all details.” The tough part will be doing the same for building. 
 
 Reena Dargan, office bearer of NSSC said, “Though CBSE has asked us to conduct the security audit, there are no parameters given in that circular for the same. We are starting from scratch here and the police’s help has come as a boon.”
 
 Even state board associations showed their willingness to work with the police and draft a plan for conducting security audit of premises. Madhusudhan Mude, general secretary of Headmasters Association (Nagpur District) said, “The meeting today helped us understand what things we need to take care of at our end as far as documentation is concerned. It’s a good start as all stakeholders are involved for this new project.” 
 
 Zafar Khan, president of Urdu School Association and founder-president of School Headmasters Charitable Association said, “Involving the police is very important because at our end we may not realize what security features are lacking.” 
 
 
