TIRUVANNAMALAI: The education department in   has detected that at least four people have either joined or tried to join as teachers in government schools in   and   districts by producing fake appointment letters. 

 The latest to produce a   is a   who reported for duty at the Government Girls High School (GGHS) in Vandavasi in Tiruvannamalai district on Monday. The woman, A Maheswari, submitted a fake appointment order to the headmaster.
 
 Sources in the education department said headmaster contacted chief education officer of Tiruvannamalai V Jayakumar and informed him that Maheswari had produced the appointment order for the post of history teacher. 
 
 According to the appointment order, Maheswari has been appointed as a teacher in the GGHS in Vandavasi. The order further stated that the HM should verify the documents of the candidate and appoint her in the vacant post. The HM was also instructed to send a report regarding the appointment to the CEO office and the Directorate of School Education. The appointment order carried the signature of CEO of Tiruvannamalai.
 
 Growing suspicious, the education department conducted an inquiry. “We found that the appointment letter was fake. My signature has been forged,” the CEO told TOI.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Earlier, the department had come across similar cases: C Punitha had joined as a history teacher at Government High School in Vadamanapakkam, S Vijayakumar had joined as an English teacher at Government School in Melmattai Vinnamangalam and C Muthulakshmi had joined as a Tamil teacher at Government High School in Avaniyapuram village. “They joined as teachers in 2014 and had been drawing salaries all these years,” said a reliable source in the department.
 
 Sensing that the education department had found out that they had producing fake appointment letters, the three people obtained medical leave a month ago and disappeared.
 
 The education department filed a police complaint against the four. “We submitted a complaint with the superintendent of police (R Ponni) in January against Muthulakshmi and two others,” added the CEO. 
 
 
