Young India is immersed in digital platforms — gadgets and apps of all kinds rule their world, sometimes to the extent of becoming a hindrance. According to a recent survey by a leading IT firm that studies digital habits of   (also called the post millennials or those born after 1995), 71 percent teens in the city have deleted or deactivated their   at least once due to parental pressure or because they find it a waste of time. We ask Ahmedabad’s youngsters why they choose to ditch digital platforms at times…

 Limited use
 Many youngsters decide to take some time off social media in order to focus on studies. “There is a lot of pressure as board exams are in March and I am thinking to deactivate my social media account soon, only for a certain period of time though,” says Shaurya Jaisinghani, a class XII student. Many choose to hang onto some phone apps to share useful information and notes. Chirag Bajaj, a class XII student says, “I have deactivated my social networking account. If there is something important that needs to be shared through a phone app, I use my mother’s phone.” 
 
 Fight boredom
 Chirag adds that when bored, he does miss being ‘online’. “A lot of times you need a break and it is fun to chat online. However, staying away from social media helps in the long run,” he says. Dron Dave, a second year college student says, “I had deactivated my account only once during board exams but not recently. After all, when you are bored you just want to browse through stuff online.” However, social media too seems redundant after a while. “I used to play games on a social media platform but after a point that too became boring. I decided to delete my account in class IX and haven’t joined back ever since," says Paramveer Singh, a class XI student.
 
 Hard to resist
 Deactivation means it is easy to join a platform back. “I had deactivated my account during class X for a few weeks as my parents suggested but it was hard to resist and I joined back soon after. However, I would try and use it only a few times in a month,” says Jhanvi Mulchandani, a class XI student who uses actively uses an image messaging app. Counsellor Nimrat Singh opines, “Actually 18 is the legal age to create an account on many social media platforms but most young students tend to join it early. This is a turbulent, albeit a passing phase. It is commendable if students decide to monitor themselves and delete/deactivate their accounts." 
 
 Zeel Desai: I am active on a photo-sharing network and a social networking site. But I have never felt the need to delete/deactivate the accounts. When I do go out for tournaments I refrain from checking my accounts or being online so as to focus on games but that’s about it.”
 
 Deeksha Joshi: I have quit whatsapp. I had also deactivated my social networking account but I am back on it to promote my films. I ended up wasting a lot of time chatting with people and realized I could have put that time to much better use. Relatively, I like the photo-sharing network as it’s faster to browse.” 
 
 
