PANAJI: Students answering   of the state board starting on April 1 have been warned by the   of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education against carrying any   to the examination hall.

 “Candidates are informed not to carry any   and are required to strictly follow the instructions printed on the admission card and main answer book,” the board has said in a statement. As many as 19,362 students will appear for the exams this year from 27 centres across the state.
 
 Last year, 20,814 students had appeared for the Class X examinations. This year, the number is lower by about 1,500. Board chairperson Jose   said the board is yet to determine the reason for this drop in numbers.
 
 The board has launched a helpline number (2413118) to attend to students’ queries on seating arrangements. They will also be able to get details and cellphone numbers of conductors and observers of their centres to clarify any doubts. The Class X exam will begin with a first language paper for all students, including children with special needs, pre-vocational and such other categories.
 
 While the examination will begin at 9.30 am, the board has asked “the candidates to be present at the places of examination 30 minutes before the commencement of the paper. Late arrival beyond 30 minutes after the commencement of examination in each subject shall disqualify the candidates from appearing for the said examination.”
 
 The board would also disallow students from leaving the hall before one hour from the commencement of the examination to avoid any malpractices like leakage of the paper. The Class X exams will end on April 10 for regular students, on April 15 for pre-vocational course students and on April 21 for children with special needs.
 
 “Under no circumstances examinations shall be postponed, even if any day is declared a public holiday,” the board has said.
 
 While the examination will begin at 9.30 am, the board has asked “the candidates to be present at the places of examination 30 minutes before the commencement of the paper”.
 
