: Income tax searches on 9 finance companies linked to former state transport minister   and his brother in Karur and nearby areas continued for the third day on Saturday. So far, the I-T sleuths have found documents relating to assets worth Rs 50 crore. They also sealed a finance firm that was functioning out of a house on Saturday.

 Through the finance companies, the two brothers had lent huge amount of unaccounted money to establishments and businessmen, thereby evading tax payment, I-T investigation has revealed. A chartered accountant is also under the I-T lens in this regard.
 
 “So far, we have seized documents of assets worth Rs 50 crore from 9 premises. The searches in all 9 premises continued for 2 days and on the third day it is continuing in a few premises. The properties are held in the names of benamis, including Balaji’s brother  ,” a senior I-T official told TOI.
 
 “We have summoned Ashok Kumar for questioning after we found benami assets worth Rs 10 crore in his name,” said the official.
 
 The seized documents pertain to movable and immovable assets. “Most of the documents for Rs 50 crore relate to investments in financial institutions and some pertain to ownership of buildings. The companies did not maintain proper accounts for their financial dealings. They did not show any source of money either,” said the official.
 
 The department, following a tip off from some of those who had taken loans, conducted searches. The search operation was led by an additional director of I-T investigation in Coimbatore. “So far, we have seized Rs 1.2 crore in cash from various premises. We are also probing a CA’s role in the whole affair,” said the official.
 
 Once the real ownership of the assets are established, the owners will be booked under the   (Prohibition) Act, 1988. “The recent amendment to the Act has given power to I-T to attach property and charge penalty and interest on the penalty for evading tax. Mostly, the entire property will have to be surrendered to the department. Over and above the property value, penalty will have to be paid as per the Act,” said the official.
 
