AURANGABAD: At 40.5 degrees celsius the city registered nearly highest ever temperature in the month of March on Monday. The   was short by merely 0.1 degree to the   recorded on March 23, 2004.

 The maximum of 40.5 degrees celsius and minimum of 26.2 degrees celsius temperature on Monday had a deviation of over 4 degrees celsius and 6 degree celsius, respectively, as compared to the normal temperature.
 
 The   (IMD) has has forecast further rise in temperature with mercury level expected to reach 43 degrees celsius over a period of next one week.
 
 According to private weather forecast company Skymet, the reason for the ongoing hot weather conditions over parts of India, can be attributed to the absence of any significant weather system. “Thus, dry and warm weather prevailed leading to heatwave conditions,” it said.
 
 The scorching summer heat, meanwhile, had visible impact on the city life with many staying indoors, while others wearing protective gears. Ahead of Gudi Padwa, popular market places observed little rush in the afternoon and people came out of their houses only in the evening.
 
 Rupali Kapole, home-maker from  , said it was too hot to step outside house in the afternoon
 
 . “I had to purchase clothes for my child along with other festival-related shopping, but chose not to go out till evening. I have a history of heat stroke during summer and therefore avoided taking risk,” she said.
 
 The rising mercury will not have any adverse impact on agriculture produce as Rabi crops have already been harvested and the mango production is claimed to benefit from heat. “Mangoes grow best on trees under high temperature conditions and we hope such conditions to last for the next few weeks,” said  , a farmer from Osmanabad.
 
 The temperature, however, is going to have adverse impact on irrigation projects. Water Resources Department (WRD) officials said Jayakwadi major irrigation project has observed more evaporation losses in March this year as compared to the past two years. 
 
 “In 2015 and 2016, evaporation losses in March were 12.61 MCUM and 22 MCUM, respectively. This year in March so far, the dam has witnessed 36.01 MCUM loss of water due to evaporation,” an official said.
 
