JASSIA (ROHTAK): Having faced severe damage during the February 2016 violence, the mangers of Makdoli toll plaza located on Rohtak-Panipat Highway are going out of their way to avoid a repeat of the past year’s incident. Operators of the toll plaza located close to Jat groups’ Jassia sit-in, which entered its 20th day on Friday, are not only allowing protest bound vehicles to pass without paying the fee but also have donated Rs 11,000 to the dharna organizers.

 The company,  , had reported facing total damage of around Rs 8 crore in the aftermath of the 2016 violence and had sought a battalion of paramilitary forces to protect its assets here. However, the administration has provided local police security cover at the toll plaza.
 
 The sit-in at Jassia has become the epicenter of Jats’ quota protest organized by the All India Jat Arakshan Sangrash Samiti (AIJASS).
 
 Even as hundreds of vehicles carrying Jat protestors on NH-71A go pass without paying the toll, causing revenue loss in lakhs to the company, its officials expressed helplessness on the issue and refused to come on record. Explaining their situation, a toll plaza official said that they can neither demand fee from stir-bound vehicles nor can they protest as it may divert the agitators’ focus on them.
 
 Talking of the traffic volume, manager of Makdoli toll plaza Abhimanyu said that nearly six thousand vehicles used to cross them every day but the number has dropped to four thousand due to charged up situation at nearby Jassia village.
 
 “We already have paid a huge price in 2016 and do not want a repeat. To keep the agitator in good humour, the toll authorities have even donated Rs 11,000 for conduct of Jassia sit-in,” said a senior official of toll plaza.
 
 However, ‘Jassia Dharna Committee’ members claimed that they have issued limited stickers with ‘Jassia chalo-Jat Ekta Jindabad’ to be pasted on vehicles and they pay daily to toll authorities.
 
 But toll authorities claimed that given the volatile situation, several vehicles go free without paying the fees by brow beating their officials in the name of  . Abhimanyu said that on February 11 and 12 due to large gathering at Jassia dharna, they had to make the toll free for all vehicles.
 
 He said that several of the vehicles that otherwise used to travel from this road have changed their route. He said that they have requested for a battalion of paramilitary for deployment on February 19, when Jats would celebrate ‘Balidan Diwas’ here.
 
 An administration official said that a battalion of local police comprising of 80 personnel was deployed at the plaza to tackle any untoward situation.
 
 
