Pune: The sudden rise in   on city   has become a problem for commuters who have questioned the logic behind laying multiple sets of strips that not only force vehicles to slow down but also lead to   build-up.

 While their purpose is to avoid overspeeding, harassed commuters say they seem to be the latest fancies of local area political bigwigs after speed breakers.
 
 Questioning the rules and regulations governing their usage across the city, a resident of Sahakarnagar said, “On the less than half a km stretch from Dattawadi police station to Parvati hill, there are as many as 13 sets of rumble strips. This is in addition to two speed breakers on the road, which are flanked by rumble strips”. “Last week, the horn of my new scooter stopped working after rattling over these strips,” she added.
 
 Commuters using the Neelayam Theatre Road recently found to their surprise that five sets of rumble stripes have sprang up on the road overnight. “There are already two huge speed breakers on this small stretch so one can imagine the plight of daily commuters,” said Niranjan Huge, who uses the road every day.
 
 Similar strips have also sprung up recently around Kasba Peth, Nana Peth, Somwar Peth, Karve Road and Bibvewadi, among others.
 
 Nitin Pawar, convenor of the Rickshaw Panchayat in Pune, said these strips pose problems both for the driver and the vehicle. “Driving over the rumble strips is a pain for the driver. Moreover, they damage the suspension of the vehicle. These trips should be laid according to a plan and not randomly, and care should be taken to ensure a well-planned height. We had spoken about it to officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation earlier too,” he said.
 
 City-based orthopaedic Vivek Gupta pointed out the health problems caused by rumble strips. “The impact is not only on the lower back, but also in the neck region. On many occasions, drivers don’t even take them seriously and tend not to slow down. The resultant jerks caused by the strips could lead to a lot of serious long-term pain. In case of the elderly or among people with weak bones, the jerks can cause a further compression too. Sciatic pain is also a risk in people who are repeatedly exposed to such strips,” he said.
 
 Yuvraj Deshmukh of the roads department in Pune Municipal Corporation, however, justified them for ‘calming’ the traffic. “We get a lot of demands from citizen groups who say crossing the road in front of their house is difficult because of the speeding traffic. We have to lay rumble strips to slow down the vehicles,” he said.
 
 Asked about the usefulness of multiple rumble strips in some parts of the city, Deshmukh said, “The local ward office may have messed it up. We will have to check with them”.
 
 
