What is the  ?

 Gurgaon is called Millennium City but its civic infrastructure has miles to go before it comes up to speed with that name. Years of tardy governance haven’t helped. But a beginning must be made, and that’s what The One-Mile Project intends to do, through participation and collaboration. Every week,   will feature a mile-long stretch in the city that has a particular problem, be it streetlights, potholes, leaky sewers, broken medians, vulnerability to accidents, crime, etc. Basically, anything that people living in that area want fixed. We won’t stop there.
 
 We will actively follow up with the administrators and work towards a solution. And it won’t be just us. You can also participate by writing in to us about a neglected stretch and our reporters will follow it up. Together, mile by mile, we can make Gurgaon a better city.
 
 Part I: Golf Course Road stretch from Genpact crossing to Rajesh Pilot Marg intersection
 
 After paying a premium for the best properties in town, no one expected to be cast into a dustbowl. Or look on from lofty penthouses perched atop highrises as roads and pavements around were taken apart, trees were uprooted and earthmovers left behind a tawny, rugged landscape. The verdant surroundings sampled in the brochure that hooked you to the new home seemed like a rude joke.
 
 Any complaint, though, was met with the common riposte — it’s all, of course, for a better future, the best address in town is a work in progress. Bear with us, please.
 
 But for how long? It’s been five years since the makeover of Golf Course Road began, as a DLF-Huda joint project, to transform it into a 16-lane speedway. The completion has missed three deadlines because of various hurdles in land acquisition and parallel construction of Rapid Metro. Living through the present for the promised better future has been a bruising experience for thousands of people who live, or work, there in a permanent haze. 
 
 At the longest end of this makeover process is the stretch between Genpact crossing and the Rajesh Pilot Marg intersection, and residents of hundreds of housing societies here are at their wits’ end on how to cope with dust pollution. What has surprised them most is the disregard for norms to curb pollution while road-building is on.
 
 Rajkumar Saini, a resident of Alaknanda apartments, said, “No construction site is covered. The place is a dust bowl as roads are dug up and dumpers carry construction material without covering them. It is hard to breathe here.”
 
 Gaurav Sharma, who lives in Hewo apartments, added, “Air quality in the area has deteriorated since construction of the road and Rapid Metro began.”
 
 The other problem is traffic congestion as diversions have created multiple chokepoints. “We can’t keep constructing highways in the city like this. Golf Course Road is a victim of over-ambition. They want big roads at the cost of trees. But they fail to give basic infrastructure such as streetlights, pedestrian crossings and footpaths,” said Abhay Punia, a resident of Suncity.
 
 “The road has been in bad shape for the last three years. There are no streetlights, so it is extremely unsafe for women and children. I find it so difficult to even drive on the road, forget walking,” said Seema Sood, a resident of Vipul Belmonte.
 
 Holding some components of the project, like the Phase 5 underpass that was incorporated into the plan later, as the main reason for missing the December deadline, a DLF official said, “Around 90% of the work has been completed and remaining work is at an advanced stage.”
 
 That cannot, however, mask poor planning, says Sewa Ram, associate professor (transport planning) at the School of Planning & Architecture. “Instead of trying to build the entire road at one go, they should have divided it into smaller sections.” Traffic management, he added, appeared to be an afterthought.
 
 “The intersections should have been built first, then traffic should have been diverted and the diversions should have been marked properly.” Since the road is anyway wide, Sewa Ram said, traffic congestion could have been avoided with better planning, adding agencies should take lessons from Delhi Metro in completing big projects without causing inconvenience to people.
 
 Do you have a solution in mind? Something that can be done in this stretch to reduce the mess? Write to us at toi.gurgaon@timesgroup.com
 
 
