LUCKNOW: Physically challenged Toni converted his fourwheeled scooter into a publicity vehicle for Rahul and Akhilesh as his old friend Anokhe Lal balanced on the rear seat waving flags of the two parties. The two leaders arrived at 3 pm and boarded the   around an hour behind schedule. Insiders said it was the refurbished Vikas Rath that broke down on November 3 during the CM's yatra. 

 Slogans 'Jai Mulayam jai Akhilesh' and 'No confusion no mistake, jai Akhilesh jai Akhilesh', 'Vikas ke gul, Akhilesh aur Rahul' and 'Ye saath hume bha gaya, Rahul tu jo yahan aa gaya' rent the air. Many traders chose to keep their shops closed in view of the roadshow. But in Hazratganj, shoppers awaited to see the CM. "I heard the CM is passing through and am waiting to see him live," said  , manager in a popular hotel. Residents welcomed the new alliance showering rose petals and perfume as Akhilesh and Rahul passed by on the route from Aminabad till Nakhas. Supporters clung to the Ashoka Pillar in Kaiserbagh to shower flower petals. In Nazirabad, children were elated to see the CM's children who were accompanying him. Passing through Maulviganj, Rakabganj, Nadan Mahal Road, Chowk and Hussainabad, Akhilesh gathered the warmth and attention showered upon him while Congressmen kept their finger's crossed. 
 
 "The kind of response suggests that the mega alliance has been accepted wholeheartedly by the public," remarked Congress leader  . At 4.40pm, as the procession reached Nadan Mahal Road, children shouted from their balconies, "We love you chief minister". When the rath reached Nakhas, a 73-year-old woman came out on the road and pushed cops shouting, "Mere Karan Arjun aayenge yeh suna tha, par ghareebon ki galiyon mein aayenge, yeh dekh bhi liya." On Khunkhunji Road, a 7-year-old boy on a bicycle shouted, "Yeh lo bhai tumhari cycle." Meandering through Naza Market, Lalbagh and Noor Manzil, the roadshow reached BN Verma Road in an hour. Residents, even in houses with BJP flags, waved at the two leaders, clicking pictures. Some bystanders created Dubsmash moments giving imaginary words to Rahul and Akhilesh. "Metro project bahut tezi se chal raha hai," said one for Rahul. Replying for Akhilesh, the other said, "Election ke baad tumhein bhi ride karwaata hoon."
