BENGALURU: Though some 2,000km away from Rajasthan, an extended Jain family in Bengaluru has refused to let go of its traditional ways of  . With this festival being one of the big three that the community celebrates with fervour, apart from Diwali and Raksha Bandhan, the members ensure the occasion is filled with colours, revelry and mirth.

 KK Bhansali, at whose home friends and relatives of his six brothers gather, said his kin travel from near and far to reach his apartment complex on Palace Road. 
 
 “All family members get together during this time of the year. While some come from VV Puram and  , the others stay nearby. Of my seven brothers, six are settled in Bengaluru with their families,” he says. Bhansali first came to the city 40 years ago to do business. “Almost 99% of Jains travel for business, but we ensure that we take our traditions along with us,” he adds.
 
 The day begins early for the family as they start preparing Holi-special delicacies such as pudi khaja, gujiyas, besan chakri, phili puri and thandai. Family members and friends smear colours on one another and the fun stretches till lunch hour, after which it’s time to indulge the taste buds.
 
 Vikas Jain, a banker-turned-entrepreneur, says he has 28 brothers-in-law and they get together to play Holi every year. “It’s a favourite festival among youngsters and kids. Initially they go slow, but once they lay their hands on the colours and water, there’s no stopping them,” he said.
 
 The family’s more religious-minded members prefer to spend the day visiting Palitana in Gujarat, a pilgrimage site set atop a hill. “People start their journey as early as 3 or 4 in the morning and return by 6pm. Devotees from all over the country travel to Gujarat to celebrate the festival of colours through prayers,” says Snehalatha, another relative.
 
 Kaajal, Bhansali’s daughter, recounts the special Holi celebration they had two years ago when the family welcomed its youngest member. “A tradition called ‘dhoondh’ is followed to a T in our villages. The first Holi for any newborn in the family is supposed to be a grand celebration. It’s much like a wedding party. We all go to the temple in the morning and the child is dressed in the finery of a groom/bride. Back home, sweets are distributed to all friends and neighbours,” she says.
 
 Despite the distance, the family has learnt to make Holi a gala celebration with friends and neighbours. Family members say their merrymaking is so contagious that even neighbours who don’t celebrate the festival join in.
 
