Amritsar: With just four months into power, the Congress government in Punjab plans to contest the ensuing municipal corporation (MC) elections in the state on development plank. While interacting with newspersons after inaugurating a railway bridge in Amritsar on Friday, local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the government would fight MC elections highlighting its development works and a comprehensive all-round plan encompassing all sectors was being chalked out in consultation with the experts.

 The bridge inaugurated by Sidhu has been constructed under the Amritsar bus rapid transit system (BRTS) project at the cost of Rs 23 crore. On the occasion, Sidhu said Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh would visit Amritsar next month and announce a slew of development projects.
 
 Expressing concern over lack of playgrounds, former Indian cricketer Sidhu said two big sports parks would come up at Amritsar and Ludhiana where children would be provided with every facility for sports. The minister also disclosed that new delimitation of wards would be effected before the civic bodies’ polls, which would lead to increase in the number of wards in each city.
 
 The minister added a sports park would soon come up at 26 acres adjoining Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar where the facilities of track for athletes, a hockey synthetic turf, four cricket pitches, a badminton court, a tennis court, a skating rink, a volleyball court and a basketball court would be created. He also said talks were on with the Board of Control for Cricket for India (BCCI) for transforming the Amritsar Cricket Club and there was a possibility of IPL and international matches to be held in the city in the future.
 
 Concentrating on Amritsar, Sidhu said six bridges would be constructed to ensure smooth commuting. He informed the gathering that a new advertisement policy was being formulated aimed at increasing the source of income pertaining to municipal corporations working in bigger cities. “This will result in every big city being richer by Rs 40-50 crore annually,” he said.
 
 He said Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana would be transformed into smart cities and the state government would commence the work regarding this project by releasing funds on priority basis. About choking of sewerage in the urban areas, Sidhu said, “As of now work related to opening clogged drains is in progress and subsequently, new pipes will be laid as per need,” Sidhu added. 
 
 
