PUNE: The thundershower that lashed the city on Saturday night and into the wee hours of Sunday threw life out of gear in many areas. Puneities endured a miserable time due to power outages, low-pressure water supply, water logging, branches breaking off trees and in some cases, whole trees getting uprooted.

 A massive tree got uprooted on BMCC Road, near Firodia hostel. Students from the hostel were seen directing traffic around the fallen tree even at 12.30am on Sunday .
 
 Fire department officials worked relentlessly since Saturday evening, clearing the roads of fallen trees and branches. Officials said the control room got as many as 80 calls related to this from all over the city .
 
 Traffic in many places slowed to a crawl as signals and street lights were non-functional. The debris chocked stormwater lines in several areas, causing rain water to accumulate along the roads. The power failure also disrupted water supply , as water-pumping were unable to maintain adequate pressure.
 
 Sinhagad Road resident Viresh Parkhi said the area was without power for more than 12 hours. “We spent the night in humid conditions,“ he said.
 
 Vilas Mate, a Vishrantwadi resident, said trees falling on electricity lines caused power failure for nearly six hours.“This shows the administration is not prepared for the monsoon,“ he said.
 
 Sources in the   said over 5 lakh consumers were affected by power outages.
 
 Water logging was observed on NIBM Road and in Salunkhe Vihar, and in areas like JM Road, Fergusson College Road, Pune station and Bund Garden.
 
 The civic water management department said pumping stations in Parvati, Vadgaon and   were unable to maintain adequate pressure due to the outage.
 
 “Water is lifted at these stations in the evening. On Saturday, these stations couldn't lift water as there was no power for almost three hours. Many areas received water at a low pressure till the afternoon. The pressure was restored in a phased manner,“ an official said.
 
 (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Prasad Kulkarni and Gitesh Shelke)
 
