CHANDIGARH: Despite a fierce triangular fight for the first time and strong anti-incumbency against the Badal regime, voting percentage registered only a marginal increase in Punjab on Saturday compared to 2012. But that was enough for the state to set an all-time record since its creation in 1966. Compared to 78.20 per cent voters casting their ballot in 2012, the turnout this time stood at 78.62 per cent.

 The 2012 numbers were the highest until Saturday. The Election Commission had set itself an even higher target of 85 per cent but that was not reached. Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP alliance had become the first government to retain power five years ago despite most people predicting a Congress win. The alliance had taken 68 of the 117 seats five years ago.
 
 The new record was created largely because of a surge in Malwa region which has 69 seats.
 
 Election Commission figures show that nine out of 11 districts of Malwa saw voter percentages jump to more than a record 80 per cent this time.
 
 This includes the three pocket boroughs of the Badal family ­ Muktsar, Bathinda and Fazilka. Even Faridkot, where desecration of Sikh holy books had turned the faithfuls against Akali Dal, touched the 80 per cent mark.
 
 AAP expected to do well here. The region had seen the maximum cases of sacrilege of Sikh holy books. Also, a failed cotton crop in 2015 had left many farmers disgruntled and upset with the government. AAP had tapped into this resentment. In the last leg of campaigning, Congress had tried to elbow itself into the region by announcing names of top leaders as candidates. This included Captain Amarinder Singh from Lambi and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu from Jalalabad.
 
 Riding on the popularity of their trump card Bhagwant Mann, AAP had won four seats in 2014 Lok Sabha polls in this region.
 
 However Punjab's three most populous districts with large urban populations ­ Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar ­ recorded lower than the average turnout of between Surprisingly , Amritsar recorded voting at 75 per cent. Two of the biggest politicians from the region -Navjot Singh Sidhu and Bikram Majithia -are contesting from here.
 
 Besides, the Amritsar Lok Sabha by-poll was also held on the same say as Captain Amarinder Singh had resigned as MP ahead of the polls.
 
 Also, Congress leaders are claiming that the bomb blast in Maur town near Bathinda on January 31 may help their cause as many Hindu voters may consolidate behind them. There have been allegations that Sikh radical groups are behind the blast.
 
 There is also a sharp difference of opinion on whether the last-minute support by Sirsa's Dera Sacha Sauda to Akali Dal will help the party in tiding over the anti-incumbency. Dera voters are largely concentrated in Malwa. However, there are many who believe that the dera's support will antagonize Sikh voters from the party.
 
 Urban areas of Punjab, where Congress has a better sway than other parties, saw a conservative 70 per cent to 72 per cent of turnout. This includes areas like Jalandhar and Phagwara which have a maximum of Punjab's 32 per cent dalits. None of the leaders were ready to concede defeat after voting was done.
 
 “The overall turnout may be low but voters came out in Malwa which is our stronghold. I am certain we will form the government,“ says AAP Punjab in charge Sanjay Singh.
 
