CHENNAI: Police on Wednesday said a 22-year-old IT firm employee sexually assaulted and killed a seven-year-old girl who went missing from her apartment complex in Mugalivakkam near Mangadu on Sunday. 

 Investigators said S Tashvanth lured Hasini Chandru to his flat in the apartment complex that they lived in by promising to let her play with his dog. When they got there, he sexually abused her, accidentally gagging her to death.
 
 "Tashvanth then stuffed the girl's body in a travel bag, took it to a desolate place near the southern suburb of Anakaputhur, and burned it beyond recognition," an investigating officer said.
 
 Tashvanth initially pretended to help investigators but they caught him in a lie when he said he was at a function at the time of the crime.
 
 Investigators sent the body to a hospital for postmortem to determine the abuse she sustained, but with little hope of additional discoveries because the child's body was completely charred.
 
 Neighbours said they last saw Hasini playing alone at 6.15pm on Sunday while her parents were away shopping. The parents found her missing when they returned and, when all efforts to locate her failed, they filed a complaint with the Mangadu police.
 
 Police formed a special team, headed by Ambattur deputy commissioner R Sudhakar and assistant commissioner of police Kannan to investigate the case.
 
 Footage from security cameras in the apartment showed the child playing in the parking lot of the building complex.
 
 "Hasini's parents had gone shopping with her little brother because she was playing with children from the apartment," the officer said. "After the other children left and the girl was alone, Tashvanth lured her to his flat."
 
 "After she died when Tashvanth gagged her, he put the body in a bag, purchased petrol and went to Anakaputhur to get rid of the body," he said.
 
 Deputy commissioner Sudhakar said Tashvanth pretended to help policemen search for the missing child to keep track of the investigation. "He even alerted the police control room to report the case," he said.
 
 But Tashvanth made contradictory statements to police and soon became the prime suspect. He claimed that he was at a wedding reception on Sunday night, when police, using cellphone call data, determined that he was at home.
 
 Investigators interrogated Tashvanth on Tuesday night and he admitted to the crime, Sudhakar said. "We took Tashvanth to the scene of crime and a mob tried to attack him," he said. "He guided us to the body."
 
 Police registered a case against Tashvanth under IPC Section 211(false charge of offence made with intent to injure) and 302 (Punishment for murder). They also booked him under relevant sections of the Pocso Act.
 
 
