TRICHY: Foreign tourists who had flown in from as far as France and the United States got a bitter taste of Pongal here on Monday as they were made to wait for over two hours in a bullock cart for Tourism Minister   to arrive. Making matters worse, the tourism department also failed to provide insights for them into   in the state’s rural heartland. The initiative turned out to be bad advertisement for Trichy city and the state too.

 The tourists who were brought to the venue around 9 am had something to cheer initially as they were welcomed with garlands and guided to a bullock cart to the accompaniment of percussion drums. However, that was all of it. They had to cool their heels for the next two-and-a-half hours until state ministers N Natarajan and   arrived for inaugurating the programme around 11.45.
 
 Natarajan posed for photographs while stirring a pot with   along with the tourists and there ended the celebrations. No arrangement was made by the tourism department to explain about the festival to the eagerly awaiting tourists who had come in from USA and Europe. Barring the symbolic stirring of the pot which they did and the ride in the bullock cart, the tourists could take away very little by way of Pongal experience.
 
 “If this is the way tourists are going to be treated then there is a lot to learn for the authorities,” said Cyril, 48, a tourist from France. “Had we been aware of such a delay, we would have utilised the time to visit temples. Now that’s not possible as I will be leaving the country by Tuesday,” rued Cyril. He described the trip as the most depressing among his last 20 visits to the country as he could not explore the city. 
 
 Sonia, another tourist from USA, said that they could feel nothing more than mere percussion beats at the site. “I was excited about the butterfly park but even that was disappointing for it is yet to be completed,” said Randolph who accompanied Sonia. 
 
 When asked, tourism officer   said that folk dance was also part of the event but the dancers expressed their inability to perform at the last minute leaving no option for them but to call it off.
 
