Chandigarh: There was uproar in the Haryana state assembly on Thursday on the issue of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue without taking along the other party leaders.

 Leader of opposition in the state assembly Abhay Chautala said since all party leaders from the state had met President Pranab Mukherjee and thereafter Union home minister Rajnath Singh to discuss the SYL issue, the chief minister should have also taken them along to meet the Prime Minister too.
 
 Chautala added that chief minister should inform the assembly as to what discussion he had on the SYL issue and what assurance was given by the PM. He said that it has been six months since since the Supreme Court’s verdict in November last year and yet the construction work of the canal has not started despite the apex court handing over the responsibility to the central government.
 
 Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that the chief minister should not have gone to meet the Prime Minister alone when a unanimous decision was taken in an all-party meeting. The discussion on the issue also witnessed heated arguements between Chautala and BJP chief whip Gian Chand Gupta when Chautala said that SYL was more important issue for his party than GST and other Bills.
 
 Assembly speaker Kanwar Pal Gujjar tried to intervene saying that the one-day special assembly session was convened to pass the GST Bill and the chief minister would make his statement at the end of the session. However, INLD as well as the Congress demanded that the chief minister’s should first make a statement on SYL issue.
 
 Later, the CM clarified that he had not gone to meet the Prime Minister only to discuss the SYL issue but there was also a discussion on demand of separate high court for Haryana and international airport at Hisar. He said that he had gone to Delhi to attend the Niti Aayog meeting and since he got an appointment from the Prime Minister on the previous evening, he thought it appropriate to discuss important issues including SYL, since Punjab chief minister had already met the Prime Minister. 
 
 Khattar told the House that the Union home minister had taken the memorandum on SYL issue and as and when any action would be taken, the assembly would be informed.
 
 
