Nagpur: While the bifurcation of the Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) in Akola seems inevitable, the question of setting up of the new university at Mul or Sindhewahi in Chandrapur district or at Nagpur is being debated. It appears that the finance minister from Chandrapur district wants the university either in Mul or Sindhewahi whereas all the experts including the PDKV teachers wants the new university to be located in Nagpur.

 The experts, former vice chancellors and PDKV staff are contesting that the university be set up in Nagpur considering the existing strengths of the College of Agriculture in city, over 100-year-old and one of the first five colleges of the country. They are also claiming that Nagpur is the most feasible and practical place for the university. “The new University should come up taking into account the real possibilities of implementing such a massive project and not be driven by the political and personal ambitions of a leader or minister, especially with financial position of the state government. Even if it is set up in places like Sindhewahi or Mul it will always keep limping,” said C D Mayee, former chairman of the national Agriculture Scientists Recruitment Board.
 
 Mayee who happens to be an executive council member of PDKV and a member of the committee which was exploring the bifurcation of PDKV is in fact totally against the bifurcation of the university. He says that with as much as 45-50% staff deficiency at all levels in the PDKV, the government should first strengthen the existing university. “I had submitted my dissent note already. Nagpur has the required land for the university. Yet my suggestion would be to not bifurcate the university but have a central university in city,” said Mayee.
 
 Former PDKV Vice-Chancellor Sharad Nimbalkar too stated that the university should be set up if it is needed and at appropriate place where infrastructure exists. “There is a need of a forest university instead in Chandrapur district,” he said.
 
 Other experts say that one has to consider the availability of all the components of a university — education, research and extension. Mul as well as Sindhewahi are known to have tiger movement, so being a human-animal conflict area, construction and habitation here should be avoided. They say that even the choice of Akola for PDKV was not good.
 
 Being an agriculture university it is funded by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). ICAR has 15% national quota and there is now some international quota too. These students would never like to go to interior places. At present, the university teachers, officials, ICAR officials and international visitors no one finds Akola as a convenient place for an agriculture university. Whereas everyone votes for Nagpur for national and international collaborations of university. For any agricultural university one needs at least 1,000-1,500 acre of minimum agricultural land. Where is this land in the two places? Claim experts.
 
 
