MYSURU: Senior   leaders from the   came together to campaign for their party candidate   in   on Saturday. 

 While KPCC president and home minister G Parameshwara along with education minister Basavaraj Raya Reddy and others held a campaign rally in fourteen villages including Hunasavalu, Kudlapura, Baguru, Taradale that comes under Badanavalu and Kalale gram panchayats which comes under east party of the constituency, another dalit leader H Anjaneya who is the minister for social welfare held a door-to-door campaign with women and child development minister Umashree in Nanjangud town.
 
 Earlier in the day, Parameshwara who met party leaders and workers in the party office directed that they should visit every household in their respective regions to convince villagers to vote for party candidate and warned not to waste time in being with campaign leaders and pose for photographs and talk negative on opposition party leaders and candidate.
 
  DCC vice-president Gurupadaswamy said that the party has formed vigilance group where each minister is made incharge of a zone. Minister MR Sitaramu for Badanavalu, Umashree for Kalale, Basavaraja Raya Reddy for Yaggadahundi, SS Mallikharjun for Hullalli and Tanveer Sait for Doddakavalandhe. 
 
  Nanjangud Town which has 27 wards and 38 booths will be in charge of leaders Ramesh Kumar, Appaji Nadagowda and M Krishnappa. With leader of the opposition in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge visiting the taluk in the afternoon, all the leaders held a public meeting at party office in the town. Speaking on the occasion, Kharge said that   will be fall to the third position after the 2018 assembly election as Congress will once again win a majority of the seats to run the government. 
 
 "BJP will lose in both assembly constituencies in the by-election. BJP has damaged the social system in the country. Congress government in the state has given various progressive programs which will win votes in the by-elections," he said. G Parameshwara said that BJP candidate V Srinivas Prasad was MP for five terms and   for eight years, but he has failed to provide houses for the Uppara community. "How can Srinivas Prasad seek votes from the people, when he has failed to initiate any welfare activities for the villagers," he questioned.
 
 Leaders like H Anjaneya, RV Deshapande, Shamanur Shivashankarappa, Veerappa Moily, Oscar Fernandes, TB Jayachandra, Allama Veerabadrappa, and others were present.
 
