NEW DELHI: A   in   on Wednesday by a  , who took her to his house around two kilometres away and brutalised her for nearly an hour. 

 The girl underwent surgery on Thursday and is under medical observation in the intensive care unit.
 
 The crime of the assailant, Vijay, was discovered when residents of Chetan Basti heard cries coming from his room. Vijay, who came to Delhi from Bihar, has a brother in the capital, but lived by himself. “The youth used to stay alone and never had visitors coming to his room,” said Mansi who heard the girl’s cries when she went to switch on a water pump near Vijay’s room. “It was, therefore, unlikely that someone with a child could have come to meet him.”
 
 Vijay, 22, tried to fend off the curiosity of neighbours by saying he had acquired a pet, but the inquisitive locals entered the house. There they found the young man dressed in the girl’s clothes. There was blood all over the floor and the girl was bleeding from her genitalia and was in obvious pain. Vijay claimed that the girl was a daughter of his relative and he was trying to treat her for an ailment.
 
 The unbelieving neighbours dragged him out of the house and thrashed him, upon which he admitted to having sexually assaulted the girl, according to a local resident. Vijay appeared to have packed his bags, perhaps with the intention of leaving for his hometown.
 
 Police were summoned and the criminal handed over to them. On Thursday, Mandeep Singh Randhawa, DCP (central), said, “We have registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The youth was questioned and sent to jail on Wednesday night.”
 
 The girl lives near Daya Basti in Anand Parbat. On Wednesday around 8am, she had gone to a grocery shop with her five-year-old sister. On returning, the sister left her at the bottom of the steep stairs leading to their house because the three-year-old could not climb them. It was at this juncture that Vijay carried her off to his room.
 
 Relating what had happened after the girl went missing, a neighbour said, “We heard the girl’s father beating his elder daughter for not taking care of her sister. We, however, stopped him and urged him instead to start looking for the missing girl.”
 
 After he was apprehended, Vijay claimed that he had first seen the girl when he had come to her house to meet a co-worker from is factory. His neighbour, however, claimed, “Vijay starts drinking alcohol from early in the morning. He once approached me for money and might have seen the girl then because she usually played outside my house.”
 
 The girl’s father works as a driver with a steel billet factory. He had shifted to Delhi from Bihar four years ago and had brought wife and children to the capital last year.
 
 
