GREATER NOIDA: A day after the   cancelled the allotment of a 3.6-acre group housing plot in its area,   on Wednesday cancelled two institutional plots over non-payment of dues and taken possession of them.

 Both the allottees were allotted land in 2009 and together owe the Authority more than Rs 80 crore. According to YEIDA officials, 10 more cancellations are in the offing after May 31, 2017.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Arunvir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), YEIDA, said the two institutional plots belonged to   and  . “They were allotted 25 acres each as part of an institutional scheme launched by YEIDA in 2009. Both were allotted land in October 2009 and both have defaulted on payments,” Singh said.
 
 While one allottee has paid YEIDA Rs 1.30 crore, the other has deposited Rs 1.35 crore till now. They have defaulted on all their instalments since 2013. “MMA Grains owes us Rs 41 crore, while the other developer has an outstanding amount of Rs 40 crore,” Singh said.
 
 “We have cancelled their allotment and taken possession of their lands,” he said, adding that no third party rights had been created in either case.
 
 Both developers could not be reached for comment.
 
 According to officials, a list of all such units, which have defaulted on payments, is being drawn up. “We have identified six other institutions and four group housing projects, which have yet to make outstanding payments despite several reminders,” Singh said. “Show-cause notices have been issued to ensure these allottees pay up. If they don’t clear their dues, strict action is on the cards for them,” he said.
 
 “New allotments will be made for the cancelled plots to stimulate investment in the area,” Singh said. “With this land bank, we will initiate fresh schemes and give the land to industrialist entrepreneurs who will set up shop in our area,” he said. “The basic thrust of the drive is to ensure that units are set up in a time-bound manner so that employment generation is boosted and revenues are earned,” he said.
 
 
