Nagpur: The headquarters of Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Gadchiroli, was recently set up to keep a watch on Naxalite-prone districts of Gadchiroli and Gondia.

 The police control room in Civil Lines in the city has also been linked to the offices. However, the absence of a DIG and shortage of staff leave the office empty most of the time. So much so that one can see clothes being put to dry in the conference rooms of the headquarters in Gadchiroli, sources said.
 
 Gondia is now a ‘Maoist rest zone’ after reduced Naxalite activities in the district, though that is not the case in Gadchiroli. In 2012, the rank of DIG was especially commissioned in Gadchiroli to combat Naxalites in the two districts. Sunil Ramanand was the first officer to be appointed to the rank of DIG. However, the post has been vacant since Ramanand’s retirement.
 
 Strategic tactics to combat Maoists and establishing a communication links with the control room in Nagpur are some of the responsibilities of the DIG. Later, inspector general (IG) of police, Nagpur Range, Ravindra Kadam and additional commissioner of police (Nagpur) Shivaji Bodkhe were given additional responsibilities of supervising affairs in the jurisdictions of Gadchiroli and Gondia.
 
 There are about 30 police personnel working in the Gadchiroli office and appear to have no work. Giving guidance to officers, holding meetings, granting leaves to inspectors and superintendents, meeting at times of extreme circumstances are some of the operations that should be carried out by the office here. Officers here are usually without any work and the control room in the city has turned a blind eye to the mater.
 
 Superintendent of police (Gadchiroli) Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The DIG office was in a residential quarter and was temporary during Ramanand’s tenure. The office was shifted to Nagpur when Kadam was appointed.”
 
 Deshmukh said there is a control room in the district currently in operation. However, he did not comment about the current conditions of the office building.
 
 
