PANAJI: Minutes after failing to prove their strength on the floor of the 40-member state legislative assembly, Congress was in for another jolt on Thursday with its   tendering his resignation immediately after taking oath. Speculations are rife that he may be inducted into the cabinet. His resignation was accepted by protem speaker Sidharth Kuncalienker.

  Vishwajit stated that he would get re-elected in the bypolls but had not made up his mind whether he would contest on   or some other party’s ticket.
 
 Upset with Congress central leadership, Vishwajit, the son of veteran Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane, announced his plans to quit the party in a public tirade against the party’s central leadership, especially AICC general secretary  .
 
 “This is the first step of rebellion against the mismanagement of the party. I don't have any intention to stay with this party. I am disillusioned with them (Congress). Should I remain in this party to rot?” Rane said, as he criticized the party for its failure to form the state government despite being the single largest party with 17 seats in the just concluded state assembly elections.
 
 Later, Rane told TOI that he remained committed to the people of Sattari and would re-contest the elections from Valpoi constituency which gave an indication that Rane could re-contest under the Sattari Yuva Morcha banner.
 
 “I will decide with my supporters and take a decision on my future. I will meet   also before I take a decision. I know my father is upset with me,” Rane said.
 
 Rane, who took oath as an MLA in the 40-member state legislative assembly, openly defied the Congress leadership and abstained from voting by remaining absent. The Valpoi MLA had written a letter to Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi listing out his grievances against the party’s indecisive functioning two days ago and had threatened to resign if action was not taken.
 
 In his letter, Rane has reportedly asked for accountability and change in the party’s functioning if he was to remain in the party.
 
 Immediately after he was administered the oath of office, Rane vanished and his absence was pointed out only when Congress MLAs stood to vote against the Manohar Parrikar-headed coalition government.
 
 Congress legislative Party leader Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar immediately convened an urgent meeting of the MLAs to deliberate on what action should be taken against Rane for not toeing the party line. Even as the party discussed possible disciplinary action, news trickled in that Rane had openly expressed his desire to quit the party, thus reducing the Congress strength in the House to 16.
 
 “We have no idea where he is at the moment. We searched him everywhere. We even looked out for him in the washroom. He couldn’t be reached on the phone either,” said Kavlekar.
 
 The news of his resignation came when Congress was contemplating to file a disqualification case against him. Former minister   has raised legal issue saying that the resignation cannot be accepted by protem speaker.
 
 Malik said that resignation of a member of assembly cannot be accepted by protem speaker as he is appointed by the governor on his behalf to subscribe oath to newly-elected members or to carry out specific directions under Article 188 of the Constitution. Resignation given by the member addressed to speaker under Article 190 of the Constitution should be accepted by the speaker. Rule 2 of the rules of procedure and conduct of business of   defines speaker as one appointed under Article 178 of the Constitution. Further Article 178 of the Constitution states the speaker is one who is chosen by the MLAs.
 
 As protem speaker is not chosen by the MLAs, he is not the speaker under Article 178 and hence, has no right to accept the resignation, Malik said. 
 
 A member may resign any time but his resignation should have been left for the decision of the speaker elected by the assembly and the speaker would accept it from the date of resignation, he added.
 
