MUMBAI: Medical services across Maharashtra were crippled on Monday as nearly 4,000   doctors went on “mass leave” to protest against recurrent attacks against medicos, including two new cases reported from Wadia Maternity Hospital in Parel and Aurangabad. Over 400 surgeries were postponed across the four medical colleges in Mumbai—KEM, Sion, Nair and JJ. At the time of going to press, the resident doctors were non-committal about resuming work on Tuesday.

 Thousands of patients were inconvenienced on Monday as they were refused admission, discharged and even asked to come back next week. 
 
 KEM Hospital, Parel, for instance, could carry out only 50% of its usual quota of 200 surgeries. The situation was similar at Sion and Nair, where the usually packed wards had empty beds as not-so-acute cases were not admitted.
 
 Prabhadevi couple Santosh and Neeta Zende (25) had to leave KEM without meeting their gynaecologist. Neeta is only a month away from delivery. “They told us to come next Monday. Senior doctors didn’t seem to know when the strike will end,” said Santosh. Vijay Bahadur, undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital for a stomach ailment, said his diagnostic tests were cancelled. A paraplegic patient from Kalwa, who came with a complaint of water retention in his feet, was told to go to a private hospital.
 
 Hospital deans said emergency services were manned by lecturers and honorary doctors. “We tried to maintain ICUs and emergency services. Elective procedures suffered,” said KEM’s dean Dr Avinash Supe. Services at the peripheral hospitals remained unaffected as most resident doctors had reported to work, said chief medical superintendent Dr P Jadhav.
 
 The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), which has avoided calling the collective bunking as “strike”, held a series of meetings with mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta and officials from the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on Monday. “We have been assured that around 500 security personnel will be deputed from the   latest by April 1. A total of 1,130 people will be recruited for colleges all over Maharashtra by April- end,” said a MARD spokesperson. “The decision to resume work rests with each doctor and how secure he or she feels.”
 
 Mayor Mahadeshwar and assistant municipal commissioner IS Kundan have assured the doctors that the pass system, to restrict entry of a patient’s relatives to two, will be stringently implemented. “We have also given directives for an alarm system to be installed in the wards. A vigilance committee will be appointed as well,” said Mahadeshwar.
 
 Dr Sagar Mundada, a member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) who was present at the meetings, said resident doctors understand that certain demands cannot be fulfilled overnight. “But tackling chaos in casualty, the ICU and the labour room is doable immediately. If doctors see a genuine effort by colleges to restrict the number of relatives, students will resume work sooner than later.”
 
 (Inputs by Allwin D’Souza and Richa Pinto)
 
