BHUBANESWSAR: The land of Lord Jagannath has shot to infamy due to increased incidents of   with the   (CWC) in Puri slamming the district administration for failing to curb the social evil. 

 The district CWC, a quasi-judicial body enjoying powers like that of a court of law or judge, on Friday wrote to district collector Aravind Agarwal, describing child marriages in the district as alarming. TOI possesses a copy of the district CWC's letter.
 
 "We found that at least 20   were reported in Puri district between March 2016 and July this year. This is quite alarming," read the CWC letter. 
 
 In view of the rise in graph of child marriage, the CWC assumes that the government officials, engaged in eradication of the practice, have failed to implement Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, Puri CWC's chairperson   told TOI.
 
 In its letter, the CWC cited negligence of some officials concerned to address the issue. "On July 11, a minor girl was produced before us after being rescued by officials during her marriage at Brahmagiri. We immediately asked the local child development protection officer (CDPO) and district child protection officer (DCPO) to inquire into the matter and submit their action taken reports. But we so far have not received any report," the letter said.
 
 The CWC expressed displeasure with district officials for not lodging police complaints even after coming to know about instances of child marriage. "We feel the government officials concerned are not serious about the sensitive issue. They do not bother to lodge police complaints. We have asked the district administration to sensitise villagers about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act as many of them are unaware of it," Roy said. 
 
 The Act has penal provisions of two years of imprisonment and fine up to Rs 1 lakh for offenders. "We are alert to the situation. We have been organising sensitisation programmes at regular intervals. Members of child protection committees in all 230 panchayats in the district were trained and sensitised about the Act," said Puri DCPO Manas Tripathy.
 
