HYDERABAD: Little did Oishika Neogi imagine that from 'White House' in Hyderabad she would go to the   one day, that too for the inauguration of the President of the US. 

 It was in 2014 that Oishika Neogi had participated in the Harvard Model   India Conference at HICC, Madhapur here. HMUN's office is located at 'White House', a commercial building in Begumpet.
 
 At the conference, in which students from across the country participated, Oishika Neogi of Thane emerged victorious. That gave her a ticket to participate in the Global Young Leaders Conference in the US in June 2015. The talented girl excelled there too and was selected to attend the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the US.
 
 "We are glad she has got the opportunity to attend the big event. We hope she uses her Model UN experience to ask the right questions if given a chance to interact," said Aditya Soma, CEO of MunCafe which organises the Harvard Model United Nations India Conference. In fact, Oishika Neogi is also coordinating with them for organising a leadership event at Symbiosis School of Liberal Arts, Pune, where she is studying for a BA degree.
 
 Oishika was born in Kolkata and her family lives in Thane. She studied in B K Gadia College in Malad before joining Symbiosis.
 
 A thinker and a short-film maker, Oishika drives home a point with the short films she makes. Interestingly, in a short film titled `Headlines 2016' which she made in August and uploaded on YouTube, Oishika wondered who would be the next US President.
 
 Four actors -Yarshana Sharma, Mikhail Khen, Jemin Shah and Rutvi Shah -wonder who the next President of the US would be. Hillary Clinton... Bernie Sanders... Donald Trump? A placard with a question mark is held by the actors. Finally, they cannot figure out who it will be and leave. The two-minute film was directed by Oishika.
 
 Oishika has made another film, of six minutes, which provokes thought. Also in black and white, it has 12 actors who raise an important question: “Who am I?“ That is also the title of the short film.
 
