CHANDIGARH: Haryana would now become home for   and   as the   and wildlife department has decide to develop a `community reserve' to protect these aquatic creatures.

 The reserve would come up in the historical pond of Thana village in Kurukshetra district. The water body at Thana is presently being maintained by the villagers, who consider it as part of the actual site of Brahm Sarovar.Once the project is materialized, it would be a notified protected area under the Wildlife Protection Act.
 
 The department has decided to develop the site as world-level conservation and protection centre of turtles of these two species, which are also in scientists' red list of endangered species.
 
 Confirming the development, Haryana principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Ama rinder Kaur told TOI that during a routine sur vey , the officials had found a natural habitat of softshell turtle and flapshell turtle in the water body after which assistance of scientists and ex perts from   (WII) was also taken.
 
 “It was only after a scien tific study of the area and a survey that the department has decided to develop the area as   under the Wildlife Protection Act. The villagers have agreed to give 110 acres to the department and a final project report has been sent to the chief minister for approval. As and when approval from the CM is received, we would start developing the area,“ she said.Once fully developed, the site would be a centre of attraction for tourists as well as researchers from across the world, he added.
 
 Besides the water body , the forest department would also manage the flora and fauna of area spread in the 110 acres.Thana is located along Pehowa-Kaithal road in Kurukshetra district.
 
 The proposed protected area would be developed in a way that the villagers could continue to visit as per their beliefs and the aquatic creatures could also be conserved.The site would be managed by the department with cooperation from the local residents.
 
 
 
 
 
 The state forest and wildlife department will develop a `community reserve' to protect Indian flapshell turtle and Indian softshell turtle, which are also in scientists' red list of endangered species, at Thana village in Kurukshetra district. Once the 110 acre project takes shape, it would be a notified protected area under the Wildlife Protection Act.
 
