INDORE: Despite the herculean efforts of the   to rescue the tiger spotted in Nagda, they failed to catch it on Tuesday. The operation would be resumed on Wednesday. 

 A team of the   started the operation to catch the tiger early morning on Tuesday. The team with rescue vans, nets and tranquilizers went into the forest compartments where the wild cat was spotted a day before.
 
 The forest department also roped in two elephants for the job. "There are large shrubs in the area, we had no option other than using elephants," said  , chief conservator of forest, Ujjain. After few hours of search operation, the tiger was spotted. The forest officials used tranquilizer gun. "We were successful in the attempt; the dart had hit the animal. However, it is necessary to cover the eyes of the animal after it is hit," Annigiri said
 
 However, the animal hid behind the large bushes and the officials failed to cover its eyes. After around two hours, it came back to its senses and could not be caught. 
 
 Officials said that with the initial citing of the animal it was clear that it was a male tiger aged around 3. "We will again resume the operation Wednesday; we are expecting to catch it soon," Annigiri said.
 
 A tiger was spotted near a human settlement near Nagda last week, prompting forest officials to launch a rescue operation for the wildcat. Officials said that the tiger did not belong to the jungles of Nagda. "It has come from a nearby forest. Once it is caught we will have it sent to  ," Annigiri said. Meanwhile, residents of the area are living in fear with rumours emerging from nearby areas.The forest department has urged the villagers to keep calm and take precaution. They have also advised residents to stay away from the hills where the animal was spotted.
 
 Reports of presence of   being spotted have started cropping up for the last two weeks. Some goats and a cow were also attacked.
 
 Citing the type of attacks and claims of villagers, the forest department installed cameras in various parts of the jungle. "Our priority is that no person or animal living in the area should get harmed," Annigiri said.
 
