KOLKATA: Not only have they eased commuters' transport woes, but Kolkata Police and the transport department -along with its knowledge partner Ideation Technology — have now added ambulances on its   to help with smooth movement of patients to hospitals.

 “Now, users can spot an ambulance in his or her vicinity on Pathadisha app and get details about fare and facilities. Initiate the call by clicking the live ambulance icon. The nodal agency , hospital or the ambulance operator will receive the call and input necessary details through control-room applications,“ said  , co-founder of Ideation Technology and the brains behind the initiative.
 
 The moment an ambulance is selected, the app will show the fare and facilities available. After police receive information in real time, they will facilitate swift movement of the ambulance.On the basis of the criticality and urgency , cops will offer green, semi-green or normal corridor for easy access to the hospital from the patient's home. Police will moni tor the entire journey.
 
 “Of course, green corridors can be asked for in case of major emergencies or organ transplantation. Semigreen corridors can be created by synchronising signals so that the ambulance can get an uninterrupted passage till the hospital. We have started with some ambulan ces from both government and private ones. Eventually , all ambulances in the city will be brought under the purview of the app,“ said  , additional commissioner (I), Kolkata Police.
 
 The moment an ambulance is booked, the driver will click the `start' button on his app. The ambulance will not be shown on the app till the driver clicks the `end' button on reaching the hospital.
 
 Kolkata Police's 40 trauma care ambulances have already been included in the app, along with 70 ambulances from 15 private hospitals.All government ambulances have also come under the Pathadisha app.
 
 Additionalle, the city police will spend from its own pocket to make all private ambulances GPS enabled.The registration of ambulances with the cops will remove the price anomalies -putting an end to the practice of ambulances charging a lot after sensing the severity of the case.
 
 The app, funded by World Bank, has already caught the fancy of some developed nations.   has plans to replicate it for other cities in India, apart from some European and southeast Asian countries.
 
