MUMBAI: The Indian Cricket Board has made way for the   - which is home to the historic   - to host the two warm-up matches to be played here ahead of the start of the limited-overs series against England.

 Brabourne was slated to host two India 'A' vs England XI matches on Tuesday and Thursday before the visiting England team moves to Pune to play the first of the three one-day internationals, the other two scheduled in Cuttak and Kolkata.
 
 England are also scheduled to play two T20 internationals later in Kanpur and Nagpur.
 
 It was widely reported that Mumbai police had demanded a fee of Rs 60 lakh to provide security for the two matches in Brabourne. However, the match between India 'A' and England XI will be considered as a First Class game and not an international one. Considering that, the amount that the   spends on a First Class game is Rs 1 lakh only.
 
 "Ever since the   order has come (on January 2-3), there seems to be chaos all around and media reporting incorrectly on things is only adding to the madness," a source tracking developments said.
 
 The matches - both day & night and being talked about former India skipper MS Dhoni's last match as captain - will be televised, largely because Dhoni is playing here and the host venue logically expected crowds in big numbers. To top it, considering that there will be no charges to watching the game, the Cricket Club of India Committee expected fans to turn up in huge numbers.
 
 It was in the middle of this logistical snarl that the Committee heard from the local police authorities demanding a payment of Rs 60 lakh to provide security cover.
 
 The   forwarded the demands of the police to the BCCI and the Board, in turn, sorted the matter in line with its usual practice to provide security in First Class games.
 
 Sources in CCI said they received an email from the BCCI saying they will be reimbursed for all payments made. CCI sources also admitted that "somebody has been trying to sabotage matches and that is becoming increasingly clear. Such nuisance should be avoided."
 
 Meanwhile, the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) has also rubbished rumours that they would not play host to the Test match against Bangladesh starting February 13. 
 
