A Kerala politician and an IAS officer fall in love and decide to get married… sounds straight out of a movie? 

 It happened for real in Kerala recently, when MLA KS Sabarinadhan announced on social media that he and Thiruvananthapuram sub-collector Divya S Iyer would be getting married soon.
 
 Ask them if it was love at first sight and both deny it vehemently. It was a friendship which blossomed into love, they say. The couple, both in their 30s, who used to meet each other often for official purposes, soon became good friends and finally, have decided to become companions for life. The two are nothing less than celebrities now, considering how Sabarinadhan’s post went viral, and as the state looks forward to a marriage between politics and bureaucracy, we catch up with them to get to know more about their love story, wedding plans and more:
 
 
 
 
  I met Divya first at Trivandrum. As she is the city’s sub-collector we used to get in touch with each other during official visits. Later we became close and realised that our ideas, interests and life perspectives are similar.
 
 : We knew each other in our capacities as MLA and sub-collector. Sabari used to message me regarding official matters. There were some tribal settlements in his constituency and he was in constant touch with me to settle some issues there. Later our conversations moved on to books, music and personal interests. We became friends before falling in love with each other.
 
 
 
 
 : It was an emotionally mature decision for me to get into a relationship with her. We evolved with each other so there was never a formal proposal. I have never said those three words to her, but it was silently conveyed between us. It was not like ‘katta premam’ (laughs).
 
 
 : We knew that we really, really, liked each other. However, both of us were hesitant to convey our affection for each other as we were professionally linked. We didn’t know how the other person might react, and were afraid it would end on a bitter note. If there is a rejection from either side, it would be embarrassing for both of us as we have to continue our working relationship for the rest of our lives. It was a family friend of ours who suggested that we consider whether we are compatible for each other for marriage. Sabari didn’t go down on his knees or anything but he did ask me, ‘Will you marry me…?’ And my answer was the smile on the selfie that he shared on his Facebook page, announcing our relationship.
 
 
 
 
 : I used to work in the corporate sector while Divya was a doctor by profession. We both sacrificed our profession to pursue our passion for social work. That was the reason that made me fall for her. The other two things I like in her is that Divya is versatile and deeply focused on her area of work.
 
 : Sabari is very calm and composed. Both of us share common values and that make us a simple and sweet couple (laughs). The third reason that made me fall in love with him was that we both share a deep interest for public service. Though we had jobs with which we could have led a luxurious life, we both gave it up as we are interested in the public service sector. He loves music and appreciates my singing (laughs).
 
 
 
 
  I respect our positions in society. The three letters MLA and IAS had nothing to do with our affection for each other. We loved each other as individuals who have the same wave length. We have decided to keep out professional matters from our personal life and don’t want to interfere in each other’s work.
 
 : As spouses we will be a support for each other, a shoulder to cry on. As our professional combination is a risky one, we made a mutual understanding that our professions won’t intrude into our personal life. He won’t cross over to my profession and vice versa.
 
 
 
 
 : Our love flourished during the time of the Malappuram by-election. I got to know Divya better as we had conversations over the phone during that time. Malappuram will always be special for me, as my parents fell in love at Manjeri.
 Due to our professional commitments we didn’t get many opportunities to spend time together. We both got to watch the play Khasakkinte Ithihasam together, which was unofficial. But unfortunately Divya had to leave the play in the middle as she had to attend an emergency dispute case.
 
 : Being public administrators we were not able to make public appearance as it would affect our positions in the society. To be fair, it was on May 3 that we had our first date. At least through marriage, I hope we can find time for each other (laughs). We are going to start our life after marriage (laughs). I am aware of Sabari’s parents’ love story so we hope to keep up the legacy with ours. I have met his mother, she is sweet and I am proud to be part of their family soon.
 
 
 
 
 : Our relationship was known only to very few in our closest circles. This is a love cum arranged marriage. We hope to get married by the end of June. It will be a simple wedding and we plan to host a reception in Trivandrum. 
 
 
