Tirupur: Levi Strauss and Co wouldn’t have imagined that the denim would have so many takers even in the 21st century when it brought out the first blue jeans in 1873. Denim fabric is still widely used, despite the arrival of many other alternatives to the ever-evolving fashion world. 

 And, NIFT TEA College of Knitwear Fashion on Monday celebrated ‘Denim Day’ with an objective to popularise the multi-utility of the fabric in the city. It made for a lovely sight when students of BSc Apparel Fashion Designing department, 36 of them, walked the college campus clad in   wears, western outfits and party wears, all designed using denim fabric.
 
 Speaking to TOI, G Boopathy Vijay, assistant professor of the department, said “The denim was known to be a ‘rough and tough’ material and it could last longer compared to other fabrics. Though earlier the material was too heavy and wasn’t suited for all seasons, nowadays its GSM (grams per sqm) has been reduced drastically (from 300+ to 140+). So, fashion designers or commercial organisations have an opportunity to innovate using this fabric.”
 
 Though some big textile brands tried various outfits made of denim on a trial and error basis, they hadn’t evoked positive response from a large section of people. “But being an educational institution, we could try designing denim outfits other than jeans and shirts. And we wanted to spread awareness on it as it can be a trend tomorrow,” said Dayalan Rajan, vice-principal of the college.
 
 Recently, the institution had celebrated ‘Lungi Day’ to promote the traditional attire, and ‘Sadhu Wear Day’ to promote saffron colour outfits. “The ‘Denim Day’ is part of the series. We have produced traditional wears, including sari, using the denim fabric,” Boopathy, who was in-charge of the event, said.
 
 V Agalya, who looked gorgeous in the blue denim sari, said, “Most of my friends opted for western outfits but i stuck to sari as it is rarely made of denim. I did simple glassworks on the five-and-a-half-meter length traditional wear.”
 
 The students said they had a clear plan and worked for about two months for the event. “We designed and stitched the outfits our own,” they said.
 
 The main advantage of the denim is that it doesn’t require much maintenance. 
 
 Other advantages include low cost and more options to customise.
 
 
