It’s often said that entrepreneurs are sceptical about starting new ventures in Kerala for fear of strikes and protests. 

 But what’s winning our attention now is not the pros and cons of strikes but how creative they have become of late. We take a look at how ‘samarams’ have been taken to a whole new level altogether.
 
 A seated row of men wailing their hearts out outside the Secretariat in Trivandrum had caught quite a bit of attention a month ago. Organised by a group of people from Badiyadukka in Kasargod district, the crying protest was staged to draw attention to the problem of pothole-ridden roads in their neighbourhood. Apparently, the people of the neighbourhood had tried various avenues to get the issue resolved, and they resorted to this novel mode, after all of it went futile. And what’s more, they staged the performance for a good two hours.
 
 
 
 Remember how the right wing activists tried to teach young couples some ‘manners’ by caning them off the Marine Drive on International Women’s Day? Kerala’s campuses staged a protest against the brazen attack in a ‘tit for tat’ fashion through a Sneha Irippu or Souhrida Irippu samaram. Described as a ‘sit-in gathering for love and friendship,’ it challenged the very practice of frowning at men and women who sit together at the Marine Drive. “Let’s see what happens if men and women sit together here,” declared the protesters, who were at the spot for a good few hours. The symbolic gathering also had students pouring in from various colleges in Kochi and from different groups in the city.
 
 
 The incident of caning and chasing away couples had led to widespread criticism of the police who just stood there and watched the incident. The next day, a group of activists organised a sale of brooms and canes as a token protest outside the office of the commissioner of police. Yes, the police stood and watched the sale too.
 
 
 
 Have you ever tried some tea, boiled on a human head? An age-old trick familiar to Kerala’s street magic enthusiasts was borrowed recently by a handful of protesters. When the price of LPG shot up recently, which in itself triggered many protests across the State, some people decided to bank on the situation for a novel protest. The activists from Mattancherry offered their heads and all its LPG worries as fuel for some tea pots, to a magician to perform his tea-making act. In 15 minutes, the tea was ready and it was distributed to all who witnessed the ‘protest.’
 
 
 
 Last month, a handful of traders and residents in Kochi switched off the lights in their homes and shops and ‘remained in the dark’ for a day. The blackout protest was their way of raising voices against a HC order – seeking eviction of unlicensed commercial establishments.
 
 
 
 When the women of Puthuvype walked to Kochi city wearing earthen curry pots and cheena chattis braving the summer heat a few weeks ago, onlookers were surprised. The protest was against a new LPG terminal coming up in the densely populated Puthuvype. The residents feared it will put their lives at risk, and had slogans written against the terminal, on their chattis and cheena chattis.
 
 
 
 Trivandrumiites were stunned when they saw a man with a woman’s dead body, protesting in front of the Secretariat, recently. Well, it turned out that it was a woman posing as a dead body. It was staged by social activist Jeppy Velamannoor and his wife Sreekala. For the past 30 years, they have apparently been protesting to waive off the fees at the paid toilets across the state in a bid to make it accessible even to the poorest of the poor. They have vowed that if the government does not make the public toilets free for all, they would start a mock funeral procession from Kasaragod to Trivandrum and they would end their lives in protest. The dead body mode was inspired by the age-old story of Nangeli, who protested against the breast tax by chopping off her own breasts and sacrificing her life.
 
 
 
