Ever lopped an inch or two off your head after a bad breakup? Or tried breakup bangs or a drastic hair colour? If you have, you are not alone. Breakup hair is a thing – definitely a cultural rite of passage. Recently, singer   went super short in the head after her breakup er… “taking a respectful, loving space” with beau for one year,  .

  changed her hair colour after her split with  ,   tried out breakup bangs, and Sarah Hyland went for a short crop. Break-over (makeovers after breakups) is the go-to heartbreak remedy for most women. 
 
 
 
 In an interview to Billboard in 1998 singer Lenny Kravitz had talked of his decision to cut his famous locks: “I needed to change my energy, so I cut my hair. Now, I’m growing some new energy.” Looking for a new energy, a new start and some control is what prompts a breakup haircut. 
 
 Relationship and sex educator Dr Laura Berman did a study on how big a role hair plays in women’s dating habits. In an interview to 'InStyle' she said, “Whether it’s losing 10 pounds, trying a new lip colour, or getting a pixie cut, making changes to your appearance can serve as a distraction and a coping mechanism.” Breakup haircut is cathartic – like cutting off dead weight and becoming freer. 
 
 
 Getting a semblance of control back in your life is also part of the plan. A reason why most new moms also attempt a change of look after the delivery. Haircuts — or major makeovers — that happen so close to a breakup are a direct reaction to it. The idea: You want to rid yourself of that era, literally cutting yourself off. Blogger Ella Dawson in her post “Why I Cut My Hair” writes: “My long hair was another attempt to hang onto what was, to the loves I refused to let go of because they meant validation. Validation I don’t need anymore.”
 
 
 Experts advice choosing your breakup hair after careful thought. Hair takes its time growing back. If you try something drastic and are not happy with it after a point, you add that to your list of woes too.
 
 
 
  
