Singer-rapper  , who is on a seven-city self-branded bus tour to promote his new single  , reached   on Monday morning with his eight-member team. The Saturday Saturday fame singer had to wait for nearly three hours inside his bus to get an entry to the city due to heavy traffic. The singer drove past the Cantonment area enjoying Bareilly ki baarish and also visited the  , where he exclusively posed for us.

  
 
 When stuck in jam, Indeep was fascinated by kanwariyas. He said, "For the first time in my life, I saw such devotion towards one’s religion. Saffron-clad kanwars were not just walking but even dancing barefoot. They played music on high volume and kept playing such peppy remixes of devotional songs that we started dancing inside our bus. Mann kar raha tha ki baahar jaa kar unn kanwariyon ki khushi ka hissa banun aur khoob jam kar dance karun unke saath."
 
  
  Indeep is touring the country to promote his new single (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 Indeep, who has worked with Badshah, Alia Bhatt, Varun Dhawan and Raftaar, among other celebs for different projects, said, "I have seen how celebs like SRK, Salman Khan and Aamir leave no stone upturned to promote their films. They visit small towns, meet and interact with their fans. Inspired by them, I chose Bareilly as one of the cities for my promotional tour. It is great to connect with fans from small cities and take their honest feedback."
 
  
 
 While performing at a star night at a city’s college, Indeep said, "Bareilly is one of the best cities I have ever visited. Bareillywallon ko mere saare songs by heart yaad hain! I am so overwhelmed by the response that I have received here. Jitna pyaar choti cities mein milta hai woh kahin aur nahi mil sakta and Bareilly has proved it right. Also, while passing through the city, I felt that Bareilly is a bit cleaner than Delhi."
 
  
  Indeep posed for us at Yugveena Library in Cantonment area (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 Indeep, a self-confessed foodie shared, "When I reached Bareilly, I was on a strict diet and just had an omelette, but that doesn’t mean that I’m not a foodie.” The   singer added, “Jaipur mein jab saari team so gayi thi, tab main chupke se baahar gaya and tried the typical Rajasthani thali. In Bareilly, I have had the best dinner of my life. I had some sumptuous butter chicken at the hotel where we were staying; it was probably the best Indian food I had ever tasted. It was so good that I ended up over-eating."
 
  
 
 Indeep says, "I have always seen how international artists like Justin Bieber, Pitbull do self-branded promotional tours for their music. I am inspired by them and in fact, more and more Indian artists should also adopt this trend. Such tours give you a great opportunity to bond with your team."
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  Adding a message for city’s youngsters, Indeep said, "I worked as an architect before I switching to the music industry. I believe, apna future pehle secure karna chaahiye, then one should try their hands at other things. Studies. Most importantly, there is no shortcut to success.” He added, “For all youngsters out there, I have a message – Say no to drugs. Being a Punjabi boy, I feel sad about how Punjab’s youth has been involved in drug abuse, thinking that taking drugs adds a swag to their personality. I interact with a lot of youngsters and it’s disheartening to know that so many of them fail to understand the consequences of consuming drugs and instead look at it as a cool thing."
 
  
 
 Indeep, who will be seen hosting an upcoming reality show on television, said, "This would be my first commercial project on TV where I would be hosting and judging the show. It is expected to go on floors in August. I am also doing a film   with Sunny Leon."
 
  
  Students of the college enjoying Indeep's performance (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 
  -- Manyaekta.Gugliani@timesgroup.com
 
 
