KOLHAPUR: As part of its new customer-friendly approach the Maharashtra State   Distribution Company Limited ( ) has changed the format of the electricity bills being issued to the consumers.

 The new format contains billing units, meter reading dates and photograph, charges of the units consumed and a QR code that can be used to download Mahavitran’s mobile application.
 
 Vikas Puri, public relation officer of MSEDCL’s Kolhapur zone comprising Kolhapur and Sangli districts, said, “The new bills have been circulated in the zone and has more clarity than the previous version. The new format of bill is in Marathi language and contains the name of the consumer in both English and Marathi language along with date of bill formation and reading. We have also mentioned our toll-free numbers for addressing the grievances of the consumers.”
 
 He added, “We have also included a QR code on the bill. Any smartphone user can access the Mahavitaran mobile application by scanning the code. More than 10 lakh customers in the state have downloaded the application in the last eight months. The numbers of grievances redressal committee at district level has also been mentioned in the power bill. We have even mentioned the rate of power units and their slabs that will help the consumers in residential category understanding their consumption in a better way.”
 
 Puri said many a time consumers are oblivious to the charges other than electricity consumption. “We normally receive lot of complaints regarding mismatch between power units and actual bill amount. Therefore, we have mentioned the different charges like transportation and many others.”
 
 Another MSEDCL official said, “The MSEDCL is one of the largest power distribution companies in India. We launched the mobile application in June last year. We have received expected response from the customers. Customers still have traditional mentality of paper bill. It is also considered as residential proof. Therefore, customers are reluctant to shift to digital payment. To increase usage of digital payment modes, company has included the QR code on the power bill.”
 
 Earlier, the MSEDCL’s amnesty scheme,  , for consumers whose power connection has been permanently disconnected has not received the desired response.
 
 Only 10,152 out of the 85,416 defaulters have come forward and paid their dues. Now, if the remaining consumers fail to pay dues, the MSEDCL is staring at losses to the tune of Rs 50 crore. The last date for making payments has now been extended to July 31.
 
 The amnesty scheme was launched in November 2016 for those consumers whose power connections have been snapped permanently. The Kolhapur zone of the company comprises Kolhapur and Sangli districts with 85,416 such consumers in High Tension (HT) and Low Tension (LT) consumers.
 
