SURAT: Every day, Diamond City generates around 450 tonnes of organic, recyclable and non-degradable waste, a large amount of which is dumped into the drainage network or disposed of carelessly choking the drains.

 The fallout is choked nallas and waterlogging during the monsoon. Now, the   (SMC) has decided to end the choking game. 
 
 In an attempt to help reduce garbage collection and disposal load, the civic body is first in the state to install organic waste converters (OWCs) at the vegetable markets namely Singanpore, Bhagal and Dindoli located in three municipal zones. 
 
 Each of the OWC are capable to convert 250 kilogram of organic waste generated from vegetable markets, hostels and canteens into compost per day.
 
 In all, the civic body has purchased 10 OWCs, out of which five OWCs have the capacity of 100 kilogram per day, while the rest five 250 kilogram per day. The rest of seven OWCs will be installed in all the seven municipal zones starting January 7. 
 
 Official sources said that the diamond city generates 1,600 tonnes of solid waste per day and that around 30 per cent or 450 tonnes comprises of the organic waste generated from the vegetable markets, hotels, restaurants, canteens and other food joints. 
 
 The civic body has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with   (KRIBHCO) for supplying the compost generated from the OWCs at Rs 2.5 per kilogram. As per the MoU, civic body’s market department will pack the compost and supply to KRIBHCO for further process. 
 
 “The installation of OWCs is in line with the revised   (SWM) rules-2016, which has emphasized on the bio-degradable waste to be processed, treated and disposed off through composting or bio-methanation. At present, the OWC supplier company is training the sanitary inspectors and beldars on the operation part. Each OWC will have two beldars and will be supervised by the SIs” said executive engineer of solid waste department, EH Pathan.
 
 Pathan added, “The civic body is spending Rs 2,000 per tonne per day for the disposal of solid waste in the city. If the bio-degradable and organic waste is compost on the spot, then we will be able to lessen the financial burden on the civic body”
 
 Moreover, Pathan informed that the SMC is inaugurating the 600 tonne compost plant at Khajod disposal site starting from January 15. Also, the Refused Derived Fuel (RDS) plant will also be started soon.
 
 
