GURUGRAM:  , Australia’s foreign affairs  , was in town on Wednesday morning, gracing the Gurgaon campus of  . Bishop is in the country as part of the Australia-India   School Partnerships Project, under which both countries seek to promote bilateral student and teacher exchange programs.

 Established in 2015, BRIDGE – Building Relationships through Intercultural Dialogue and Growing Engagement – is a global program which brings together teachers, students and school communities. It endeavours to maximise the use of ‘information and communication technology’ (ICT) in classrooms and encourages students to collaborate on projects, practice language skills and develop lifelong friendships with students at their partner school. Shiv Nadar School is one of the schools participating in this initiative.
 
 During her visit, Bishop took part in a live interaction with BRIDGE students in   and India, on STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education. She also shared her insights on and thoughts around the careers of the future. “This is a time of unprecedented change and we see technological advancements disrupting the way we live, the way we communicate and the way we work. We can see that the jobs of the future, the careers of the future are very different,” Bishop told the students. 
 
 Australia, she said, is the second-most popular destination in the world for international students. “Last year, there were 70,000 enrolments from India for students to study in our universities, in our institutions, and we have some of the best in the world.”
 
 Col Gopal Karunakaran (retd), CEO of Shiv Nadar School, said, “Initiatives such as these are greatly encouraged at schools to build the spirit of internationalism and to recognise diversity in a globalised world. BRIDGE is an important initiative that builds global competence through student engagement between Australia and Asia, and we see both our students and teachers benefitting immensely from this programme.” 
 
 Bishop was greeted by a dance recital performed by the school’s students, a fusion of contemporary and traditional Indian dance. After taking a tour of the campus, she later participated in a question-and-answer session with around 500 students, among them boys and girls from 20 other schools in the NCR, as well as with teachers.
 
 
