NEW DELHI: In his budget speech last year, Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia provided Rs 350 crore for use by   under the Citizen Local Area Development Scheme (CLADS). As the financial year approaches its end, and the state government is engaged in finalising the state budget for 2017-18, this particular outgo is set to lapse without having been utilised.

 The decision to allot Rs 350 crore for CLADS, part of Aam Aadmi Party’s “participatory budgeting process” under the Swaraj Fund Scheme, has been kept at abeyance because the formation of   sabhas by administrative order itself has fallen foul of the scrutiny by the panel that pored through 400 files to see if those government proposals were invalid in the absence of prior approval of the lieutenant governor. While many files were returned with directions for corrective action, the one pertaining to mohalla   is still with the lieutenant governor’s office.
 
 Sisodia is optimistic of   Anil Baijal giving his approval for the proposal. The   government’s third budget, expected to be tabled next month, is likely to allocate a sum for mohalla sabhas. Sisodia told TOI said that he has discussed the matter with Baijal, who, he feels, is acquainted with the issue having himself introduced the idea of the area sabha under the JNNURM scheme of the UPA government.
 
 In June last year, the Delhi cabinet announced the formation of 2,972 mohalla sabhas in all 70 assembly constituencies of the state. In a press statement, the government pointed out that detailed ground surveys had been conducted for the delimitation of the said mohalla sabhas based on the inputs gathered from citizens, public representatives and officials from each area. All registered voters were to be members of each mohalla sabha.
 
 Mohalla sabhas, as proposed and approved by the Delhi cabinet, were supposed to coordinate with different government agencies for the execution of developmental works, identify and facilitate beneficiaries for different social sector schemes such as old age pension and solve local grievances with the help of local officers.
 
 Explaining the rationale of the Swaraj Fund Scheme, under which the mohalla sabhas were conceptualised, Sisodia said in his 2016-17 budget speech that the objective was “decentralisation of governance and giving real decision making power to the citizens of Delhi”. Pilots had been tested in 11 constituencies and a sum of Rs 253 crore allocated for execution of projects sanctioned under the Swaraj Fund Scheme. 
 
 The scheme was to be extended to all 70 constituencies in the current financial year, and the mohalla sabhas were provided with a cumulative Rs 350 crore.
 
 When asked about the status of the projects and funds, officials in deputy CM’s office said that the funds had been allocated and projects cleared by mohalla sabhas in pilot mode in 2015 were under execution.
 
 Swaraj (self-rule) was at the core of AAP's pre-election manifesto. In 2014, the cabinet had passed the draft Swaraj Bill with a vision document for mohalla sabhas though this never reached the assembly with the government resigning in 49 days. 
 
 In 2015,   did not bring the pending draft legislation to the cabinet perhaps realising that it would be in conflict with the existing constitutional provisions on local governance and under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act of 1957. AAP decided to play it safe and take the notification route, a decision that is still facing the test of legal validity. 
 
