LUCKNOW: The   will be ranking its 43 departments on the basis of its contribution to the   and the overall   from the   For a better score, the department must ensure it fulfils the cleanliness parameter or else it will be marked as 'failed' in the annual  . 

 The rankings will be uploaded on the Lucknow University official website of the declaring where each department has scored good or bad. A committee headed by the vice-chancellor S P Singh will be formed to analyse and award scores on the basis of the department's performance.
 
 "The report card of every department will be a mirror for every faculty. The department will get to know where they stand in terms of academic excellence, cleanliness and hygiene, job placement and teaching. It will also create a healthy competition not only between students of different departments but also among heads and teaching faculty of the department," said Singh and added that the parameters on which the departments will be ranked have already been decided. The marks division and areas where negative points will be awarded will also be finalised before the new session begins, he added. 
 
 To keep the department clean, the members would need to penalise defaulters for using polythene bags, tobacco or littering on the campus. The final report card of each department is prepared on the basis of academic excellence, attendance, job placement, courses which have been closed due to poor performance, research, involvement in the extra co-curricular activities and use of innovation and technology in the classroom. 
 
 He said top five departments will be profiled on the university website under 'top performers' head, highlighting its achievement and total marks scored to attain the top rankings. Singh said next year when a candidate will apply for admission in the respective department he/she will have an access to the complete information through the ranking and report card uploaded on the university website.
 
 Not keeping corridors, walls and garden area of educational blocks neat and clean may reflect badly on the head of departments in days to come.
 
 
