KOCHI: A cartoonist who stopped drawing cartoons after he lost his vision is back to cartooning after a cornea transplant. 

    will be the first artist whose work will be exhibited in Caritoon 2017, organised by the  . 
 
 While Murali's cartoons will be exhibited at the   for three days starting Friday, work of nine other cartoonists will be on display at   for 30 days.
 
 Murali who entered the world of cartoons in 1980 drew cartoons for newspapers and magazines. Even when he got a job with KSRTC in 1988, his passion ensured that he didn't stop drawing cartoons.
 
 "Whenever I had some spare time I would draw a cartoon. I loved the art form," said Murali, now a 57-year-old. 
 
 But things changed in 2012 when he started losing vision in his right eye. "There was always pain in my right eye and drawing was strainful. I realised that I could no more draw a cartoon," he said.
 
 Soon after his retirement in 2015, he tried poetry and film making but always felt that it never gave him the artistic high that drawing cartoons gave. Once he stopped drawing cartoons, Murali, who was till then an executive member of the Kerala Cartoon Academy went into a shell.
 
 "We were very close but since the past three years, he would not respond to my calls. Suddenly one day in March I received a call from him and he told me about how he had lost interest in cartooning after losing his vision and how cornea transplant has given him vision and revived his will to draw cartoons," said Kerala Cartoon Academy secretary Sudheer Nath.
 
 Murali admits that his life had definitely changed after he lost vision in one eye and he did take time to adjust with the changes. "I was told that cornea transplant was the only option. I was scared and uncertain. However, my daughter, who is a doctor, convinced me and now after the transplant I can see properly. I have gained confidence to walk out of my house again," he said. He underwent Endothelial Keratoplasty (DSEK), a cornea transplant technique to restore vision when the inner cell layer of the cornea stops working properly, in October 2016. The technique selectively replaces only the diseased layer of the cornea, leaving healthy areas intact.
 
 "The cornea transplant was done as his vision was negligible at 40%, making it difficult for him to work indoors or draw cartoons. We removed the diseased inner cell layer of the cornea and implanted healthy donor tissue through a small incision," said Dr   jabbar, a surgeon.
 
