NEW DELHI: The Centre is set to rework the way it ranks states on ease of doing business with stakeholder feedback driving the new system. 

 Sources said that the department of industrial policy and promotion, which already has a tie-up with the  , has now roped in the   Development Programme ( ) to work out a feedback mechanism across states. The UN body is now working out the details since it is seen as a massive exercise involving all states and Union territories. 
 
 Typically, the World Bank, which carries out an annual exercise globally, depends on feedback on change in regulations in one city. In some cases, such as India, the rankings factor in the feedback of changes in Delhi and Mumbai but even this has faced criticism from the government as countries such as India are seen to be too large to make an assessment based on the feedback in a couple of cities. 
 
 In fact, World Bank officials themselves acknowledge the problem in large countries such as India, China and Brazil and have talked about revamping the methodology. Now the  , which are going to be based largely on feedback, are expected to suggest a way to overcome the shortcomings seen in the global rankings. 
 
 The change in methodology after two years is meant to address concerns over states blindly issuing notifications to comply with parameters set by the Centre, often days before the deadline for submission. But there is no assessment of the situation on the ground. 
 
 For instance, in the last rankings, the top 12 states implemented over 90% of the reforms that they were asked to undertake but several of them had seen little investment flow, which has emerged as a major criticism for the current ranking. The top grossers, such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, are all ranked 10th or lower, while states such as Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand and Jharkhand enjoy higher ranking. 
 
 Although the government realises that the ease of doing business rankings are just one of the parameters that investors look at while deciding on the investment destination, they want the system to be foolproof.
 
