SRINAGAR: Three heavily armed terrorists were killed in a fierce gunfight early Tuesday after they stormed a   camp near the airport on the outskirts of Srinagar. A BSF officer was killed trying to repulse the attack while three other jawans were injured, said a   officer.

 The three Jaish-e-Muhammed terrorists sneaked into the BSF camp in Humhama from the back at dawn, and positioned themselves inside the barracks. The terrorists were in combat fatigues, one of them even firing in the same direction as the jawans to trick the forces, the officer added.
 
 There was heavy gunfire, said CRPF IG Ravideep Sahi, with the suicide attackers also throwing grenades that punctuated bursts from their automatic rifles. Assistant sub-inspector B K Yadav was killed while three BSF jawans were injured, the IG said.
 
 According to sources, it was a grenade thrown by a terrorist in Army fatigues that killed Yadav while injuring another jawan. IG (Kashmir range) Munir Ahmad Khan said the terrorists belonged to the same group that had struck the district police complex in Pulwama on August 26 this year.
 
 “They breached the BSF camp by cutting a fence between Friends Colony and Gogoland,” the IG said. The terrorists reached the BSF camp taking the Rangreth route which has a military airport. They trudged past the heavily fortified  , stopped at Gogo village, and moved west towards the BSF camp, an intelligence source said. Another source said the reason behind Pakistan sending JeM terrorists was its serious worry about the challenge to its writ mounted by the likes of Ghazwat-ul-Hind chief Zakir Musa, who does not follow Hizb or   diktat.
 
 Many LeT cadres, currently in Kashmir, are getting drawn towards Musa’s idea of independence from Pakistan and an Islamist Kashmir. This schism in militant ranks led Pakistan into deploying Pakistani JeM terrorists at the BSF camp on Tuesday, the source said. The Pakistani establishment is further concerned, given that its supply of terrorists is dwindling and the quality of its jihadi training centres is diminishing, the source added.
 
