Mumbai: The railways will devolve upon its regional officials   relating to construction and maintenance of railway foot overbridges (FOBs) and other civil works in the Greater Mumbai region. The decision was taken at a meeting railway minister Piyush Goyal had with senior BMC officials on Saturday, highly placed sources in the civic body said.

 At the meeting, civic officials demanded a status report of construction and maintenance of FOB for which BMC has paid the railways. “Consider the footbridge at Kurla. We paid the railways money almost a decade ago, but the bridge hasn’t yet come up,” said an official. “We pay them for maintenance and construction of FOBs, but they always delay in providing us fund utilization details. We face difficulty in justifying such sums to our auditors,” he said. The minister asked railway officials to furnish such details to BMC. 
 
 Many BMC-related works get delayed due to late response from the railway authority. “Railway officials always justify the delay saying they need permission from the Railway   before acting on our request. This is a time-consuming process,’’ another civic official said. 
 
 The BMC team also requested the minister to ensure that it gets periodic reports of utilization of its funds. While the railways constructs FOB for passengers, it collects money from local civic bodies to construct and maintain FOBs for general public to cross the railway tracks.
 
 The officials said the railway minister assured them he would delegate some powers of the Railway Board to local senior railway officers to avoid such (delay) issues.
 
 When asked about it, a senior railway official denied BMC had raised the “FOB payment utilization” topic with the minister and said it was a “general discussion’’ in which Goyal asked both sides to sit together to solve their differences. 
 
 A railway official termed it an internal discussion. He, however, said, “The minister suggested that some additional power be given to regional senior railway officials and asked them as well as the Railway Board to take decision on such requests within 15 days to expedite work. He wanted to ensure that red-tapism doesn’t delay works. Earlier such decision-making process would take six to seven months.” The official further said the railways holds quarterly meetings with BMC to discuss expenses and other issues. 
 
 Goyal’s decision is likely to bring relief to BMC officials upset with the railways over delay in many drainage and other projects because of late response (decision) from the Railway Board. A civic official said, “The Board takes decisions that are applicable for the entire country and doesn’t consider local problems. There is a need for a local focus instead of this country-wide perspective. After all, slums near railway tracks are a big problem in Mumbai, but not for other cities.”
 
