KOLKATA: All medical college aspirants will, from this year, be allowed three shots at cracking the   (NEET), the   clarified on Friday.

 This rule applies even if they had appeared for the All India Pre-MedicalPre-Dental Test (AIMPT), or even last year's NEET.
 
 The decision will come as a breather to countless students who had been left in the dark as to whether they can re-take the entrance exam this year.“By starting a fresh count on the number of attempts from this year, CBSE will help a huge number of   who got demotivated by the earlier circular and thought that they had already surpassed the number of attempts,“ said Amiya Maity , formerly associated with SSKM Hospital.
 
 He, however, said that the upper age limit fixed by CBSE -25 years -would be a huge disadvantage for candidates from Bengal. “This criterion will not be relaxed. But in Bengal, a cap on the age of medical examinees never existed. Every year, several students above 25 years old could attempt to crack the WBJEE (Medical) and seek admission. But this time, CBSE has specified that it will not allow any candidate above 25 years to take NEET.This is a setback,“ Maity added.
 
 Saddam Mirza, a NEET aspirant, will be one of those who will be taking NEET this year. He had already appeared for the national medical entrance test twice. “This will be my third shot at the exam,“ he said. “But I am happy that CBSE is starting to count the attempts afresh. I can now take the test with an open mind, without pressuring myself that this will be my last chance to crack it,“ said the former student of Al-Amin Mission.
 
 On Friday , CBSE issued a circular clarifying the confusion over number of attempts to take NEET. The notice said: “...it was prescribed that the candidates who have already availed permissible three attempts will not be able to apply for NEET-2017. But the department of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of India has communicated that a clarification has been sought from the   (MCI) and it has been clarified by MCI that the attempts made by candidates for   prior to 2017 should not be counted and accordingly appearance in NEET-2017 will be counted as first attempt for all the candidates, irrespective of their previous attempts in AIPMTNEET.“
 
 “Changes have been effected by CBSE accordingly in the online application,“ said a CBSE official. “ All candidates who could not fill up the application form due to the condition of three attempts at AIPMTNEET will now be able to fill in their application forms. Other rules and condition mentioned in the admission notice and information bulletin remain the same,“ said a CBSE official.
 
