Chief minister Manohar Lal   agrees Haryana’s No 1 city, Gurgaon, needs urgent attention. Basic infrastructure – roads, power, water, sewerage – is in a shambles, mainly because of the unplanned expansion of the city. But in a candid interview with TOI’s 
  and 
 , the CM promised he will ensure the Millennium City gets world-class infrastructure. On the cards is an advance security system with special focus on technical surveillance; a medical college; a modern railway station; Metro expansion, and much more. 
 

 
 
 
 A. We explored several possibilities on how to connect Old and New Gurgaon. Such facilities are planned only once in a while, maybe once in 50 years. We want to make sure that we create infrastructure that makes business sense and is sustainable as well. We have almost firmed up the route and it will be revealed soon.
 
 
 
 A. We have planned to open 10 new police stations. Some dedicated police stations will also be opened to deal with cybercrime. Extra manpower will be provided after the newly recruited staff complete their training.
 
 
 
 
 A. We have announced our intention to open a medical college, start a city bus service and also implement the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy. We are committed to the development of the city. Remembering and cherishing our heritage is never retrograde. Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will be a reality immediately after the Budget session in March.
 
 
 
 A. Solid preparation is a prerequisite for the success of a new institution. As promised, we unveiled the draft GMDA bill on November 1, 2016. The final draft after wide-ranging citizen consultations is ready. Please have a little more patience. I assure you a fully operational GMDA will be a reality soon. What is more, it will be a truly modern piece of legislation befitting the city that we work to make the smartest of smart cities.
 
 
 
 A. Since the matter is now sub judice, I would not comment on this. But, rest assured, we will have the electoral process completed as soon as possible. Delimitation of wards was tough and time-consuming. If you see the shapes of wards now, they are a lot more symmetrical than the previous ones. I have personally examined the re-fixation process and corrected many discrepancies.
 
 
 A. All laid-out principles for wardbandi (re-vamping of wards) were followed. The matter being sub judice I will refrain from making any further comment.
 
 
 
 A. The infrastructure issues are the result of a long period of poor planning. GMDA will provide effective solution and ensure world-class infrastructure. We realise that turnaround period available for this city is very small. So, we are putting our best officers here. The global investors’ meet, Happening Haryana, in March 2016 was a great success.
 
 
 
 A. When several agencies from the state and Centre are involved, there are always some teething and coordination problems. But with GMDA we are going to put in a place a completely different planning structure.
 
 
 
 
 A. The plan to widen the Badshapur drain is firmly in place and under implementation. We are conscious of what happened last year. The cleaning of clogged drains was started this winter only. The proof of the pudding will be yours to taste when the time comes.
 
 
 
 A. The only solution for such problems is to increase supply. We have already allowed doctors to be retained in service till 65 years. We have advertised all the vacancies again and hope to make recruitment by March, 2017. We also intend to open more medical colleges to increase supply of medical staff. The feasibility study for a medical college in Gurugram is on.
 
 
 
 A. With about 15 lakh registered labourers/ employees, I suspect this number. Migration is seasonal. Wait for winter to be over. Some of them didn’t respond to our persistent requests for Aadhaar cards and Jan Dhan accounts. But we want to make things inclusive. Since our government came we created one million Aadhaar cards in Gurugram. 
 
 
 
 
 A. While previous governments could not hand over even Huda sectors to MCG, our determination to expedite transfer of private colonies to MCG is for all to see. The policy is in place and different areas are at different stages of the transfer process. We will further expedite these.
 
 
 
 A. The power scenario has dramatically improved despite the fact that demand grew almost 18% only during last year. And, please don’t forget that we succeeded in improving the rank of Haryana in Ease of Doing Business from 14th in 2015 to 5th in 2016. Focus is being given more on connectivity of Old Gurgaon to New Gurgaon and a modern railway station has been planned in Dhankot village for which land has also been identified by the government.
 
