Vadodara: Flowing through the heart of the city, Vishwamitri River is popular for its crocodile habitat and rich biodiversity. 

 But few know that the riverbank is also dotted with hundreds of ‘samadhis’ (small temples or structures made in memory of the deceased). 
 
 The entire stretch of Vishwamitri River from the point it enters the city near Ajwa Lake to Padra taluka has nearly 900 such samadhis. 
 
 “Residents of erstwhile Baroda state used to cremate their near and dear ones near the riverbank. Then a portion of the ashes used to be preserved and buried in a small piece of land near the river. A small temple of Lord Shiva was made for males on it and a Tulsi Kund for females. It used to be called samadhi for the deceased,” said Chandrashekhar Patil, art conservator who has also documented heritage structures. 
 
 From distant relatives of the royal Gaekwad family to soldiers and commoners, the riverbank has samadhis of many citizens. 
 
 “The Vishwamitri River is home to many such big and small samadhis that are around 250 to 300 years old. If the person who died was rich in stature or of importance, a bigger temple or Tulsi Kund used to be made. Name, birth year and date of death of the person in whose name the samadhi was made is carved on most of the samadhis. Some of these samadhis were even made of marble stone,” Patil told TOI. “But most of these small samadhis are now lying in tatters and hundreds have disappeared over last few decades,” he added. 
 
 Those residing near the riverbank have taken away the marble stones and stones from the samadhis. 
 
 “Not many know the importance of these samadhis. They are also a part of our heritage and have to be maintained. There were plans to remove them during Vishwamitri Riverfront Project but we had opposed it. I had also written to district collector some years ago and explained the importance of these structures. There was a plan to conserve these structures but the project didn’t take off,” Patil said. “If these samadhis don’t get any protection, almost all of them will disappear over next few years,” he added.
 
 
