BHOPAL: The proctorial board of   ( ) will, on Monday, decide the fate of the students who were named in the alleged   student.

 Ragged relentlessly since November last year, the student from Saudi Arabia was so shocked that family members had to rush her to Mumbai for treatment.
 
 Later, the kin of the victim named four students, including three boys, as the accused. Sources said MANIT is under pressure to take action ever since the family members have decided to discontinue her studies at the premier institute.
 
 “MANIT’s proctorial board will look into every aspect before recommending any action. The authorities do not want to send a message that they will allow anyone guilty to go scot-free,” said a senior officer of the institute but without quoting his name.
 
 Meanwhile, Kamla Nagar police have recorded the statements of the victim’s family members and the accused. Their investigation is still on.
 
 When contacted, victim’s relatives told TOI that the condition of the girl is stable. “She has started eating but is not able to talk properly. We have fixed an appointment with a senior psychologist for Monday. We all are quite tensed,” said a family member.
 
 About continuation of her studies in MANIT, he said, “I can’t comment about it at this stage. However, our daughter does not want to stay in MANIT without her mother. We will be able to shed light only after passage of a few weeks.”
 
 The victim, originally from Mumbai, took admission under the direct admission scheme for students abroad (DASA) in August 2016 and put up in the sole girls’ hostel on the campus. Only NRIs, foreign nationals and Persons of Indian Origin are eligible for  , that is based on their higher secondary marks.
 
 Her nightmare started in November, with taunts and verbal abuse that would begin in the hostel and follow her around the campus all day. It quickly escalated to shoving. She was bullied incessantly on social media as well. 
 
 There are around 4,000 students in MANIT, including 100 NRIs.
 
