Visakhapatnam: To enable early diagnosis of carcinoma of the cervix, a cervical cancer screening unit was set up in the outpatient (OP) gynaecology block of King George Hospital (KGH) recently. The departments of oncology, pathology and gynaecology are collaborating in the screening process. Almost all patients and women attendants visiting the Gynaecology OP for gynaec problems are being screened and samples sent to the pathology department for screening. Every week, the oncology department of KGH gets at least two cases of cervical cancer in an advanced stage. The screening unit, currently housed in two rooms of gynaec OP block, has already screened around 150 women through pap smear test.  Head of the department of oncology Dr N Sujatha said, “With early screening, we want to intervene at stage zero, even before one is detected with cervical cancer. Therefore, women patients coming to the gynaec OP for their problems are also being sent to the screening centre. Usually, the patients who turn up at the oncology department come in stage 3 or even after that. But by a simple pap smear test, the cancer can be easily detected.” The screening unit has been funded by Amcana (Andhra Medical College Alumni of North America).  “It’s part of the Rs 2 crore Brachy Therapy Equipment project, which Amcana is funding. The remotely operated portable equipment would help keep radiation within the body for a specific time and is extremely precise. The equipment cost is around Rs 1.8 crore and the rest of the fund was utilised for setting up the cervical cancer screening unit. In future, there are plans to set up more advanced HPV detection test facility, but for now basic screening has commenced. Carcinoma of the cervix is caused by Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) and in India, married women are more susceptible to the virus.  “If a women has post intercourse bleeding or irregular bleeding in the middle of the month in between two periods, one should immediately get diagnosed for detection of HPV. In the later stage, foul smelling discharge takes place. Both urban and rural women are susceptible to HPV but the risk is higher in case of rural women as genital hygiene is often compromised. With radiation therapy, chances of getting cured and survival even in advanced stages are as high as 80%,” added the oncologist.