PUNE: Just 16 out of every   here wear helmets while driving, a sample  , a  , has found. The compliance, according to the findings, is even lower among women and  

 The study was conducted to evaluate the readiness of citizens for the enactment of the much-awaited Motor Vehicles Amendment Bill that has very stringent rules and penalty fines for non-compliance with the helmet rule.
 
 The findings of the study not only reveal the poor percentage of drivers who wear helmets while riding, but also the grossly misplaced perception about the importance of wearing helmets --- the single-most effective way to reduce head injuries and fatal accidents resulting from motorcycle and scooter crashes.
 
 According to global statistics, proper use of helmets decreases the risk and severity of injuries by 72% and the likelihood of death by up to 39%. India’s Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, makes it mandatory for both driver and pillion rider to wear BIS (Bureau of Indian Standards)-certified helmets.
 
 Unfortunately, various exemptions by state governments and the lack of enforcement has made the law ineffective, prompting the Committee on Road Safety appointed by the Supreme Court to issue instructions to states to make the enforcement for both drivers and riders compulsory.
 
 “Pune citizens have been among the strongest opponents of wearing helmets. Several enforcement drives have been carried out intermittently but these have failed to improve compliance, despite several court rulings,” the Parisar report states.
 
 Suggesting ideas for better compliance, Ranjit Gadgil, programme director at Parisar, said, “Both experience and research has shown that awareness campaigns alone will not have any significant impact on compliance unless this is part of an enforcement drive. Developing an effective enforcement strategy with targeted compliance rates along with a well thought out public awareness programme can increase compliance and help save thousands of lives”.
 
 Self discipline is most important, said Ashok Morale, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “We have to enforce the law and for that we regularly issue challans to those flouting the helmet rule. We appeal to citizens to use helmets for their own safety,” he said.
 
 Helmets protect one’s head, which is the most critical part of the entire human body, said Anil Mandrupkar, who co-founded Helmet Pune along with   in January 2016 after the latter lost his daughter in a road accident. “We need more people to follow traffic laws, including the helmet rule, which is ultimately for one’s own safety,” he said.
 
