Ahmedabad: “Kutte pe jab sassa aaya,   ne shaher basaya.” (Ahmed Shah founded the city where the hare turned on the dog). It looks like the myth about Ahmedabad’s foundation is taken very seriously by officials at   (SVPI) when they allowed small rabbits to endanger a large commercial aircraft, carrying more than 100 passengers. 

 On Friday night, pilot of an IndiGo flight from Bangalore to Ahmedabad landed but did not clear the runway, as they spotted a rabbit on the taxiway. The Ahmedabad-Delhi   flight carrying 142 passengers, was given take-off clearance, but was told to abort takeoff in the nick of time. 
 
 After risking the lives of passengers, airport officials say they have “sensitized” their staff and that of various airlines. However, it does not appear that they have initiated concrete action to ensure that animals are not allowed to endanger flights.
 
 A K Sharma, director of SVPI airport called the incident one of the “rarest” and said, “What can be done in such an incident. We have become more vigilant after the incident. It was a rare occurrence that had happened on Friday. It has never happened in the near past, or it must have happened long ago.”
 
 “Our staff in the air operations area are have been sensitized to be more vigilant. There is hardly any remedy for rabbits because they hide in small places and they are easily seen. Staff will be more vigilant in the area. Our operational area is fully packed and sealed and there is no chance of ingress of any animal from the outside,” added Sharma.
 
 Highly places sources in the city airport said that while rabbits are rare, the city airport is a vulnerable to other animals like dogs and monkeys.
 
 On November 20, 2016, a Chennai-bound SpiceJet flight with 189 passengers and crew aboard, was about to take off from when a group of monkeys entered the tarmac.
 
 “Monkeys are seen at the airport every day and sometime even stray dogs get inside. Airport staff need to be more sensitive and vigilant,” said officials.
 
 
 
 Incidents of monkeys, dogs and now even rabbits running unchecked on the runway of   in Ahmedabad, is seriously affecting flight safety, take-offs and landings. Such incidents, which affect flyer confidence, are yet to stop. They also point to the fact that measures to stop stray animals from reaching the runway are not paying off. A detailed habitat study of stray animals and birds around the airport is necessary to devise a scientific plan to end the problem.
 
