Ludhiana: Bhangra, classical dances, skit, mime, mimicry marked the third day of youth and heritage festival of zone A of Panjab University being conducted by GNN College, Doraha.

 SSP of Khanna district Navjot Singh Mahal, who was the chief guest for the morning session, shared that the students should channelize their energies by participating in cultural activities and sports rather than spoiling their lives by indulging in anti-social activities. “The youth should stay away from drugs if they wish to do something worthwhile for the nation and prove themselves worthy of it,” he said. 
 
 Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, the chief guest for the evening session too exhorted the students to participate with a positive spirit and avoid indulging in unhealthy competition.
 
 Principals of different colleges Hardaljit Singh Gosal, R S Jhanji, Dharam Singh, D S Gosain, Gurbkshish Singh, executive Aadministrator of the college Roopinder Brar, senior vice-president Jogeshwar Singh Mangat, joint secretary Adarsh Pal Bector, executive committee member Harjiwan Pal Singh Gill, Joginder Oberoi, Navneet Singh, Ravinder Singh Malhans were present at the event.
 
 Principal of GNN College Narinder Singh Sidhu welcomed the guests, participating teams and their contingent incharges. Vice president Jagjiwan Pal Singh Gill and general secretary Harpratap Brar shared that it is a proud moment for the college to be hosting a festival in which 13 colleges from all over the district were participating. Brar said this would provide adequate exposure to the participants as well as those who may possess talents but are hesitant to come up.
 
 Categories and winners
 
 One act play 
 
 Arya College, Ludhiana was declared first in this category, while Atam Vallabh Jain, Ludhiana and Guru Nanak National College, Doraha bagged the second and third positions respectively
 
 Histronics
 
 Kamla Lohtiya College, Ludhiana grabbed the first place while Arya College, Ludhiana and Guru Nanak National College, Doraha were respectively placed at the second and third positions
 
 Indian orchestra
 
 Guru Nanak National College, Ludhiana bagged the first position. The second and third positions were secured by Malwa College, Bondli, Samrala and A.S. College, Khanna respectively
 
 Quiz competition 
 
 The team of SCD Govt College, Ludhaina was declared first, while AS College, Khanna and Kamla Lohtiya, College, Ludhiana were placed at second and third positions respectively
 
 On the spot painting
 
 Sri Aurobindo College, Ludhiana occupied the first place. SCD Govt College, Ludhiana was declared as second and Sri Aurobindo College, Ludhiana as third
 
 Photography
 
 AS College, Khanna was declared first while Guru Nanak National College, Doraha and Sri Aurobindo College, Ludhiana were declared second and third respectively
 
 Collage making
 
 Guru Nanak National College, Doraha secured the first place while Kamla Lohtiya College, Ludhiana and Atam Vallabh Jain College, Ludhiana respectively bagged the second and third positions respectively
 
 Clay modelling 
 
 Arya College, Ludhiana was placed first while AS College, Khanna and Panjab University Regional Centre, Ludhiana secured second and third positions respectively
 
 Cartooning
 
 Kamla Lohtiya College, Ludhiana was declared first in Cartooning. The second place was secured by Guru Nanak National College, Doraha while AS College, Khanna was declared third
 
 Still life drawing 
 
 SCD Govt College, Ludhiana came first while Guru Nanak National College secured the second position. The third position was secured by Sri Aurobindo College, Ludhiana
 
 Installation
 
 AS College, Khanna was placed first while Govt College Karamsar, Rara Sahib and Arya College, Ludhiana secured second and third positions respectively 
 
 Poster Making
 
 SCD Govt College, Ludhiana occupied the first position. Guru Nanak National College, Doraha was declared as second and AS College, Khanna as third
 
 
