NEW DELHI: Racist incidents have almost cleared   Extension, once known for its mixed   population, of black tenants, and even the few African students living there tend to live close in close proximity in a few overpriced apartments along a narrow lane. The area is now dominated by nationals of places such as Afghanistan and Eastern Europe, but the   towards the Africans that pushed them to find accommodations in other parts of   is still palpable in the pejorative the locals use for the blacks: “Habshi”, originally a perfectly legitimate demonym for Abyssinians.

 The few students who have managed to survive the constant stares and suspicion have devised their own ways to assert their right to move freely. “I am a nurse by day and a student in the evenings. I wear my nursing uniform through the day because that is the only way to stop people thinking that I am a prostitute,” said 26-year-old Grace (name changed).
 
 Despite having lived in Khirki for a year and a half now, Grace still flinches at her early memories. “I used to dress casually, and the local kids used to throw stones at me. I was hurt several times. I approached the cops a number of time, but these humiliations neither stopped nor was action ever taken,” she said. “These children needed to be taught right from wrong, but their parents never stopped them. Instead they laughed, as if to encourage the youngsters.”
 
 Grace’s sister, also a student, claimed she and her friends preferred spending time outside from 6am to 8pm to avoid people on their way to their rooms. Kelly, another nurse, said, “There isn’t any need to wear my uniform outside the hospital where we were undergoing training, but without it, people address us as ‘baby’ or ‘baba’.”
 
 Fear is gradually isolating them too. Left with few African neighbours in an area hostile to them, the blacks tend to avoid parties at home. “We have friends in college and at work, but we don’t bring them home. We are scared of how people will react,” said Grace.
 
 Adichi (name changed), a colleague of Grace, related how petty occasions can be cause for evictions. “Once when returning from work, I saw cops and a crowd in front of the house where a friend lived. I enquired what the ado was about,” recalled Adichi. “The landlord had called the cops because my friend was drinking beer. I had to intervene because they wanted to take him to the police station.” She tried to convince the landlord that the African students led a different lifestyle and wondered why people still made a fuss when they did nothing that actually bothered them. She remembered her friend being asked to vacate the room a few months later.
 
 However, the Khirki Extension neighbourhood does not see it that way. “People have stopped renting their houses to Africans because they get intoxicated, have loud parties, make a din and indulge in all sorts of illegal activities. Bahut ulte-seedhe kaam chalte the,” claimed Shoaib, an eatery owner in the locality.
 
 The memory of 2015, when Aam Aadmi Party leader Somnath Bharti made a midnight “moral sweep” of Khirki Extension, also left a deep fear in the minds of the African students residing here. As Grace narrated, “I have been coming to India on and off for a decade, but only in the last two years has the attitude of people changed.” But even now, she said, she has to produce her certificates on innumerable occasions to prove that she is an educated, working woman. “I cannot go out to socialise without risking being asked to hook up with men,” grimaced the nurse.
 
 Looking forward to going home with her sister in 18 months’ time when her training ends, Grace said, “I will definitely remember India, but for the way its people have treated my brothers and sisters.”
 
 
