JAIPUR: Not just the family of 13-year-old   but entire   of Sikar was elated when a police team reached with the rescued boy. Some had tears of joy in their eyes while many praised the   for timely action. 

 Police have arrested the main accused, who is a civil engineer, and have also detained four people including two women from Mumbai and two others from Fatehpur. Police will interrogate the four persons who are suspected to be part of the kidnapping conspiracy. 
 
 On Tuesday evening, a team of Fatehpur police arrived with Dhruv Poddar. People at the police station chanted ‘Fatehpur police zindabad’.
 
 People set off firecrackers and distributed sweets. Seeing his parents, Dhruv had tears in his eyes and he hugged his father and mother tightly, who too were in tears. “I am very thankful to Sikar police for their efforts. Also to the people of Fatehpur who were all praying for the well-being of my child,” said Lalit Poddar, father of Dhruv. 
 
 “We have arrested one Sajjid Beigg who is the key conspirator and executor of the   which was for a ransom of Rs 70 lakh. Two persons were detained from Fatehpur while two women were detained from Mumbai. We will probe their exact role in the whole crime,” said Vinit Kumar, SP, Sikar. 
 
 Sikar police said that Sajjid Beigg’s forefathers were from Fatehpur. He was settled in Mumbai but knew that the small town has many rich people. 
 
 “In the preliminary interrogation, he confessed that post demonetisation he was under heavy debts. To repay all his loans he planned the kidnap and demanded a ransom of Rs 70 lakh. However, the technical surveillance and cooperation of parents proved handy in cracking the case,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 Police team in Sikar compartmentalized their jobs. “There were teams who were on the job of getting the mobile call location, other teams were coordinating with Mumbai police and one team on Monday morning reached Sajjid’s house to rescue the boy and arrest the accused,” an officer added. 
 
 Sikar police had sent teams to West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai as the kidnapper left no stone unturned to misguide police. “The kidnappers had asked the boy’s parents to bring the ransom amount at Howrah Bridge. So a team was sent to Kolkata,” said an officer. 
 
