As you drive towards one of Hyderabad’s oldest Karkhanas (factory) in Amberpet, the heady aroma of this brand, that has endured for nearly a century, draws you to its gates.

 Once inside, Zinda Tilismath completely overpowers you, transporting you to the Nizamian era thanks to the heritage structure and the fact that most of the manufacturing is still carried out manually.
 
 Though Zinda Tilismath was first formulated by Hakeem Mohd Moizuddin Farooqui in 1920, many Hyderabadis and believers of Unani medicine in India and abroad still swear by this potion that promises a `magic’ cure for all ailments.
 
 And this magic has sustained without much R&D effort or even too much marketing for that matter. From just 3 lakh vials in the 1950s-60s, today sales of the potion have shot up to 70 lakh bottles, translating into a turnover of around Rs 30 crore, including 5% from exports.
 
 So what is the secret recipe of Zinda Tilismath’s longevity? “My father formulated this product over 95 years back and we have been maintaining the quality,” says Masihuddin Farooqui, son of the founder and the company’s managing partner. (The founder had eight daughters and four sons, of which Masihuddin is the youngest). The other key ingredient keeping the aroma of Zinda Tilismath alive for over nine decades, Masihuddin feels, is the close family bonding.
 
 “In Muslim Personal Law, all the children of the founder are the partners of the company. Apart from me, there are 11 other partners. Being a partnership firm, we have been advised by our CAs to continue to take members only to the extent of the share of their parent. For instance, if one of the partners dies, their share goes to only of their children,” he explains, adding that the women partners do not play an active role in the business. Today, Masihuddin is trying to steer the 97-year-old company to into its next century with partners from the third generation. After 1954, the newer partners added other products like toothpowder, lozenges and balm to the basket but the core brand still makes up a chunk of sales. In keeping with the fast changing dynamics of retailing, the company has also been selling its products online through tie-ups with e-commerce giants.
 
 But like any other business, this traditional Muslim enterprise too has seen its share of transitional pangs. While it has not been able to make much inroads into international markets because of stringent regulations governing alternative medicine, it has also had to face competition from biggies like Zandu and Amrutanjan in the balm segment. The result: the business has been growing at just 4-5% per annum and also recently took a hit due to demonetisation. While externally it has had to stave off a threat from spurious manufacturers in the city and rising competition from modern medicine, internally a conflict has been brewing between the older generation and the new. “The new generation wants to run the business in its own way,” explains Masihuddin. The company’s management finds itself on the horns of a dilemma – to automate manufacturing or stick with the founding father’s principles of serving society by creating jobs. “We can automate but don’t want to take away jobs though the labour union has been creating lot of issues,” says Owais Farooqui, one of the partners. The company has 80 employees. Today, even as Zinda Tilismath strives to keep alive the founder’s legacy of creating jobs and promoting Unani medicine, the younger Farooquis have more of a bent towards modern medicine (two of the younger set are doctors).
 
 Though challenges abound, the family feels confident that the goodwill garnered over the past century will power the Karkhana and Zinda Tilismath will remain the `Har Marz Ki Dawa’ for many for years to come.
 
 
