KOLKATA: This  , Bengali brides can pick a new   and it needn't be the traditional Banarasi, but still be as glamorous.

 New-age weavers from Bengal trained by veterans from Varanasi, the land of the exquisite Banarasi sari, are creating a new wedding sari for the Bengali woman that draws inspiration from the techniques and embroidery of the signature weave, but has its own distinctiveness. For example, the new six-yards adopts the traditional Banarasi kadua butis but marries it with Bengal's own Baluchari motifs and kalka.
 
 The credit for the birth of the new `brand' goes to chief mi nister  . Aware of the Bengali maiden's love for the Banarasi, the CM -who handles the MSMEtextile portfolio -decided to change the `weave', literally. “She wanted her `own Banarasi' manufactured. So the `Silk Marriage Sari' project was born with a Rs 30-lakh kitty ,“ said MSMEtextile secretary Rajiva Sinha.
 
 Since the Banarasi sari cannot be replicated as it bears a GI (Geographical Indication) tag, the focus was on creating something that would remind of the vintage Banarasi, yet catch the fancy of the middle-class consumer as well as the connoisseur. The new product is being retailed through Tantuja and Biswa Bangla showrooms across the country and abroad.
 
 Tantuja managing director R N Pal stressed that Bengal was not “reproducing“ the trademark Banarasi known for its gold-and-silver brocade and opulent embroidery . “We are only trying to create a new product that's a cocktail of Banarasi and Bengal's Baluchari and Tangail. It's a wedding between our raw material and their technique,“ Pal said.
 
 Made of pure silk, the new saris are all value-for-money .Each sari takes up to 20-30 days to complete depending on the intricacies of the design. Most saris are priced bet ween Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000, while the heavily embroidered pieces may cost upwards of Rs 30,000.
 
 “We've started with eight designs, which are mostly antique zari (beaten   thread work) patterns. The pallus are embellished with silk thread inlay work on zari base,“ said project designer Anindita Nath Purkayasthya, adding: “Research is on to source old Bengal textile patterns to be set in contemporary styles.“
 
 TOI caught up with the `tantis' behind the project at Tantuja headquarters in   when they came down from their villages to meet the MD. Montu, Amulya, Rabindranath and Subal Chandra -all bearing the surname Basak -travelled to Varanasi in December 2015 to study the art of making the Banarasi. Then they underwent six months of rigorous training under Banarasi experts Surinder Pal and Shiv Shankar Patel, who came down to Fulia and Dhatrigram.
 
 “The Varanasi weavers taught us jacquard techniques and the extra-weft insertion method (where four or more threads are inserted while weaving the fabric). But our yarn, spun with Bangalore silk, has a unique velvety satin finish,“ said Fulia-based Rabindranath.
 
