CHENNAI: With the Madras high court directing the   to decide on AIADMK’s   before October 31, the poll panel has fixed a hearing in the matter on October 5 at 3pm. The symbol was frozen after the warring factions’ staked claim to it and  .

 The ECI’s decision could have far-reaching implications for the two rival groups within AIADMK in their fight to wrest control of the party. While the main faction is led by chief minister   and his deputy  , their rival T T V Dhinakaran leads a band of 18 MLAs.
 
 The court had observed that there was an urgency to decide on the issue in view of the impending local body polls. The election commission had frozen the symbol and party name on March 22, denying the symbol to both factions, headed then by O Panneerselvam and V K Sasikala, for the R K Nagar by-poll. The petition was filed by E Madhusudanan and O Panneerselvam against V K Sasikala and T T V Dhinakaran. 
 
 In his order on Thursday, a copy of which is available with TOI, the election commission secretary Pramod Kumar Sharma informed the petitioners and respondents to appear either in person or through authorized legal counsel.
 
 “You are also directed to submit the list of general council members and Central Executive Committee members of the party on December 5, 2016 (the day Jaayalalithaa passed away). Copy of the lists should also be served on the other group,” Sharma said. Subsequently, the two factions merged. The general council convened by the unified party led by Palaniswami and Panneerselvam on September 12 expelled Sasikala from the party post and negated all her appointments, including her action in re-inducting her nephews TTV Dhinakaran and Dr Venkatesh, into the party as primary members and appointing the former as her deputy.
 
 Sharma also informed the parties to make fresh submissions, if any, in the dispute by September 29. The submissions that may be filed should be supported by duly sworn affidavits, and copies of the submissions should be served in advance directly by parties to the rival group, and proof of this should be submitted to the commission.
 
 If any individual supporting affidavits are being filed, such affidavits should be confined to the members of the legislative wing (Members of Parliament and Legislative Assembly) and the apex level representative bodies in the organizational wing of the party that is the general council and central executive committee. Affidavits should be filed in original, along with soft copies, with separate sets for different categories of members. The affidavits should be filed latest by September 29.
 
