NEW DELHI: It was almost as if vats of colour had been poured out into the vast greyness of the   at Dwarka on Saturday. High above the   at Sector 10,  , Aishwarya Rai and Batwoman floated together with a myriad other creatures, some a few feet long, others eight-storeys tall, all of them having congregated there from 11 countries and seven Indian states to celebrate the dying culture of  . 

 If expectations were sky-high, the first day of the three-day 4th Delhi International   Festival fully sated viewers and participants alike. And who wouldn’t have oohed and aahed at the flying objects built in the likeness of giant sting rays and octopuses, while others flipped and rotated at the tug of the string! Not that the interest flagged, but there also were other attractions: an exhibition on the history of kite flying, crafts bazar, activity stage showcasing live bands, magic and puppet shows, and, of course, food court.
 
 As usual, there was the much-awaited kite trail, an interlinked wonder of 150 kites in Indian colours on a single string. Syed Wajahat, 18, handled the massive thing adroitly. “We are from the Walled city, the centre of patangbazi in Delhi,” the teenager beamed. “Interest in kites might have waned in other places, but in Purani Dilli we haven’t given up the pastime.” 
 
 Among the foreign participants from, among others, China, Germany, Ukraine, Canada, Malaysia and Netherlands, elderly ‘kite couple’ Ron and Baew Spaulding, currently resident in Thailand, flew their 30-metre-long flying octopuses. “It is not about money,” asserted 75-year-old Ron, a retired American graphic designer. “Kites are our passion. Last year, we joined 50 kite festivals across the world.” 
 
 Abd Hamid and his 19-year-old son Norsharizah had come from Malaysia to fly the traditional Rokkaku, which is normally sent into the skies during the monsoons. “At major festivals in Malaysia, Rokkaku fights are organised,” said Norsharizah, shyly admitting that his brother is engaged in ‘extreme’ kite flying sports that are quite popular in their country. 
 
 Another youngster, 20-year-old Tristan Underwood of Canada, wowed everyone with his four-string Revolution stunt kites “Controlling the kites with the simultaneous manipulation of four strings needs years of practice,” he offered. “But once you get the hang of it, you can make the kite do visually appealing stunts like flips and rotations in the manner of a fighter jet.”
 
 Such events had never before been staged at Dwarka. Kapil Mishra, Delhi’s tourism minister, explained, “We are decentralising the festivals. Such events were always organised in central Delhi, but we wanted to bring the festivals to other areas.” 
 
 With the wind not too strong on Saturday, the fliers had to struggle a bit. But this helped to introduce the nuances of kite-flying to the people of Dwarka, who perhaps had never seen such a variety of flying objects before. 
 
 
