BENGALURU: A 3%   offered by colleges,   under the   (GST) has   from other places worried. For this would mean spending more on food, accommodation and other services.

 While colleges have arrived at some estimates, several paying guest (PG) owners are still struggling to comprehend the new system. Not surprisingly, confusion over implementation of GST has raised the hackles of students, who see themselves shelling out more for food, accommodation, transportation and other services like laundry.
 
 Under GST, colleges, universities and coaching institutes will be taxed at 18%, compared to the earlier 15%, which will be transferred on to the students. For instance, fees for hostels in engineering colleges in Bengaluru is in the range of Rs 1.03 lakh to Rs 2 lakh for single and double accommodations. This will go up by about Rs 18,500 under the new tax regime.
 
 On the other hand, multiple PG owners TOI spoke to pointed to their own problems in trying to figure out the new system. Many professional PGs who outsource their services said they are still in the process of accurately calculating the additional amount that students would need to cough up on account of GST.
 
 Nitika Padmnabhan, an engineering applicant in MSR Nagar, said: “I am confused whether to go for a rented accommodation or a hostel in the college. Hostel fee at some of the colleges is already very high, and if GST is imposed, I think I'd find a better accommodation outside college, probably by compromising on some services like laundry, mess, etc. We are still trying to calculate the expenses.“
 
 Vinesha Kamat, a student from Wilson Garden, who has been living in a PG accommodation for the past year, says she has been told that her rent would go up once the PG owner calculates the exact amount to be raised because of GST.
 
 “Currently, I'm paying Rs 8,000, including all facilities. As a student, it's difficult to manage growing expenses.Our owner has said that once the calculations on how much additional investment would be required following GST are done, the rent will revise,“ she said. “We have every service in our PG or hostel on contract basis. So, if the rates go up from their side, we will have to add up to compensate,“ said her PG owner on conditions of anonymity.
 
 Prof Y K Jayaramappa, chief executive officer, BASE, argues that if anything, the government should have lowered the tax and not increased it. “Levying tax on such a basic necessity was avoidable. Instead of raising the tax slab, it was desirable to bring it down. In my opinion, this measure will raise the cost of education for students, more so for those who are from economically weak backgrounds.“
 
