DHARWAD:   Govindraj, 77, is a noted critic, shortstory writer, editor, teacher and an able organizer. He was also chairman of the  . His long career as a writer and teacher fetched him reputation, awards, besides respect from a large number of admirers and students. Giraddi was felicitated by friends and admirers at Dharwad on Sunday. He shared his views on various issues in an interview with TOI. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 People have recognized me mainly as a critic. But I have written short stories, poems, personal essays, literary portraits and several odd things.I have edited several modern anthologies too. I would like to identify myself as a writer.
 
 
 
 
 The main objective is self-expression. Everything else is secondary . Social reforma tion or revolution are tall claims. English-born poet   once said, “poetry makes nothing happen“. But literature can create social awareness. I think the desire to create social awareness is also a part of self-expression.
 
 
 
 Behavioural psychology claims that writing is a choice and that it can be cultivated with conscious effort. But the question of source of inspiration has always eluded me. I started writing when I was a teenager. Though my writing went on changing under the influence of the environment in which I was living, the urge to write remained constant.But where this urge springs from actually, I do not know.
 
 
 
 English was not my choice at all. I opted for English because of practical compulsions.But unexpectedly , it enriched my life -opened new vistas of world literature, modern critical theories and linguistics.But   has remained my firm commitment. I had the examples of English teachers writing in Kannada before me. I never wavered in this respect. I wrote some articles in English on linguistics; my PhD thesis, in fact, was on stylistics. Wider recognition outside Kannada never tempted me. I believe a writer should be deeply rooted to his language and culture and sho uld do something to enrich them further.
 
 
 
 
 Many writers take pride in claiming they are leftists or rightists. Some people say there is no such thing as right and whatever is not `left' is supposed to be `right'. But there is a large divide between the left and right and both are consolidating their position. But the unfortunate thing is both have been saying loudly that there is no choice and you have to be either a leftist or a rightist. If you disagree with anything in leftist ideology, they immediately brand you a rightist.The rightists do the same thing. They simply reject the third choice. This kind of binary opposition is not a healthy development at all. My position has always been that of an unbiased observer and constructive critic.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. Intolerance is increasing in both leftists and rightists.They do not allow frank expression of ideas. There have been instances of ideological and physical assaults on whoever disagrees.
 
 
 
 
 It was not an effective tool of protest against the killing of rationalists like Dhabolkar, Pansare and Prof M M Kalburgi. I am told that the cheques returned by the awardees to the government have not been encashed.
 
 
 
 
 It depends on the person at the helm of the academy . Chairpersons like G S Shivarudrappa and   have done wonderful work. Earlier, there was funds crunch. Now, there is a lot of money but the time to frame the projects and spend the money is short. The change in guard after three years reverses the decisions of the previous regime and hence no progress can be made.
 
