BENGALURU: Despite resolutions by   organisations like global organisation for people of India origin (GOPIO) seeking extension of dates for NRI/PIO to exchange old notes under the demonetization climate, till December 31 2017, Prime Minister   appears to have ruled out the same. 

 However, considering the busy lives of the NRIs and PIOs, Modi extended the dates for converting the old PIO cards to   cards without any penalty till June 30.
 
 Speaking at the 14th   in Bengaluru, Narendra Modi avoided any reference towards extending of the dates for   except for making a remark on his political opponents and commentators.
 
 “The political pundits have tried to portray our decisions to eradicate black money as anti-people move. However, the response from the NRIs and PIOs towards the policy of the Indian government to eradicate black money and corruption has been overwhelming and I thank you for that,” he said.
 
 Earlier, during his speech, Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah urged Modi to extend the deadline for NRIs to exchange their old notes beyond the current extension of June 30.
 
 “On January 6, the GOPIO had resolved in my presence urging the union government to extend the dates to exchange old notes till December 31 2017. I would request the same from you,” said Siddaramaiah.
 On the   (OCI) cards conversion, Modi remarked that he has been reminding the NRIs and PIOs to convert their cards from PIOs to OCI card but a lot many were “too busy” in their lives.
 
 “As a result we have extended the dates for these conversions till June 30, without penalty,” said Modi.
 
 The prime minister also spoke of easing the problems for people of Indian origin in obtaining the OCI cards in Girmitiya countries, where they moved four or five generations ago. As a result, starting from Mauritius, a new set of procedures and documentations will be set for procuring OCI cards in the Girmitiya countries so that descendants of the original Girmitiyas who moved from India can access facilities. 
 
