NEW DELHI: The   is all set to implement the   recommended by the   for   employees. The move is expected to benefit 30,000 employees of the transport utility, across categories, and it amounts to an average raise of about 25%.

 This comes as a big relief for employees who have been demanding the implementation of the seventh pay panel’s recommendations. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the decision would cost the exchequer Rs 240 crore annually. “The finance department has cleared the proposal and now it will go to the chief minister for approval so that it may be implemented,” Gahlot added. 
 
 He said that the government was committed to ensuring that all employees get their dues. The file may also need the approval of the lieutenant governor. The government hopes to implement the   hike as soon as possible.
 
 The major reason for the delay in implementing the pay hike was the concern that DTC was not making profits. The rules governing DTC also came in the way. Though DTC is an entity under the Delhi government, it is governed by central rules.
 
 Besides, there is a provision for leave encashment for DTC drivers and conductors. This provision does not exist in central government rules. Hence, there was a concern that if the seventh pay commission’s recommendations are implemented, it may lead to a hike more than what the central government rules allow.
 
 A committee with transport department and DTC on board looked into these concerns. It was set up about two weeks ago. The committee is believed to have said that the hike will be in line with central government rules. In fact, the DTC employees’ pay packet does not have maternity and paternity leave benefits. It does not have any medical and transport allowance as well. 
 
 Gahlot said that the department would next work on these concerns and see how these benefits can be given to DTC employees.
 
 DTC earns about Rs 33 per kilometre but the cost of operations is about Rs 45 per kilometre a day. As a result, despite earning about Rs 2.5 crore a day, the transport utility continues to make losses.
 
 “We have got pay hikes according to previous commissions as our pay scale is based on central government pattern. However, there has been a delay in implementing 7th commission for us,” said a senior DTC official. 
 
 
