Nagpur: Nag River gets most of its pollutants from a drain that is joins it near Yashwant Stadium. This drain draws sewage from the Eternity Mall and surrounding areas. A study conducted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has suggested that for the rejuvenation of Nag river, decentralized waste water treatment at major drains is needed.

 As is evident to the naked eye, the pollution levels are very high. Analysis of the water confirmed that the level of dissolved oxygen, which is the amount of gaseous oxygen dissolved in water and which is necessary for life to survive, diminishes after Ambazari lake overflow, the point where Nag River starts in the city. The river originates from Lava village at the upstream of Ambazari lake.
 
 Titled ‘Hydrodynamic and water quality simulation for rejuvenation of Nag River’, the study was conducted by Senior Research Fellow Vikash Gupta under the guidance of Neeri director Rakesh Kumar and Ritesh Vijay, principal scientist at Centre for Strategic Urban Management (C-SUM) and director’s technical cell.
 
 “We started working on it in August 2016. The main objective was to evaluate impact of sewage discharge in the river and assess present water quality,” said Vijay.
 
 Using the data obtained from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), mathematical models and geospatial tools, the study also carries out an analysis of frequency of floods in different catchment areas. “After calculating the catchment area and the maximum amount of water that can enter the river during different intensities of rainfall, we concluded that dredging the river bed can prevent the problem of urban flooding in the city, which has increased in the recent years,” said Gupta.
 
 According to the study, dredging the river bed by 0.5 meters can significantly reduce the affected area during floods. “Up to 250 meters of the submergence area can be reduced,” Gupta added.
 
 After identifying the six major drains that are polluting Nag river, samples of the drains’ sewage and river water from 12 locations were analysed. Results show that the parameters are under acceptable limits only at Ambazari lake overflow, after which the water quality of river starts deteriorating. 
 
 Dissolved oxygen (DO), which is one of the most important indicator of the health of a river body, was found to be 5.8 milligrams per litre (mg/l) at Amabazari overflow. However there is a sudden reduction and at most of the locations, the level of DO was less than 1 mg/l. “This clearly indicates the noxious condition of the river which does not have sufficient oxygen for the survival of aquatic flora and fauna,” said Vijay.
 
 In the case of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the values of both were negligible at Ambazari but tremendously high at other locations. “Ideally, BOD and COD levels should be minimal. The high values of these parameters are because of large quantity of organic pollution that is being discharged in the river from residential and commercial areas,” added Vijay.
 
 While the study clearly alerts about the river condition going worse, it also infers that “controlling the sewage discharge is not a very viable option for the river’s rejuvenation.” Gupta added, “At present, hardly 40%-50% of the total sewage is being collected.”
 
 Based on the case studies carried out after the analysis, the study recommends decentralized treatment of waste water on its six major drains is the best solution for rejuvenating the river. “The reason behind the failure of centralized treatment plant is inefficient and inadequate waste water collection system which results in high operating cost,” it stated.
 
 With proper decentralized treatment, the BOD and DO parameters can also meet the expected limits. “Levels of BOD can decrease to 80-90% in the entire stretch of the river, thus reducing the pollution level. Also, using aeration techniques before discharging treated effluents in the river, can increase DO level by almost two times,” said Kumar.
 
 
