NOIDA: The first Metro train from Noida to Greater Noida could run as early as this December, three months before the March 2018 commissioning date. The 29.7km corridor is racing to the finish line and, according to the DMRC, will be the fastest Metro project built in India.

 The Aqua line, as this will be called, is also setting another benchmark — of being the most economical Metro project to be built in the country, DMRC chief Mangu Singh said on Thursday. Originally assessed at Rs 200 crore per kilometre, the actual cost of the project could eventually be around Rs 150 crore a kilometre or even lesser, officials said. To put the figure in perspective, Delhi Metro’s Phase 3 is being built at a cost of Rs 552 crore per kilometre. But it has both elevated and underground sections as opposed to the Aqua line, which is uniformly above the surface level.
 
 Singh’s remarks came at a ceremony where DMRC formally accepted a certificate from Limca Book of Records for building a record 200 U-shaped girders in May 2016 to lay the viaduct for the Aqua line, the most in a month for a single Metro line in the country. DMRC is building the line on behalf of the   Rail Corporation (NMRC). 
 
 “This track will be an example. It will not only be the fastest track to be put into place in less than two and half years, it will also be the most economical. It normally takes around 3 years to put up an elevated track,” Singh said. 
 
 Officials said work on the Aqua line was also progressing fast because land acquisition for the project was easier. Land acquisition has been one of the major problems DMRC has had to contend with in Phase 3. Santosh Yadav, managing director of NMRC, said the line will generate 10MW of solar power and each of its 21 stations will depict a special theme. 
 
 “So far, DMRC has completed 20km of the viaduct. It has also started erecting overhead electrical lines, completing about 3 km in Greater Noida. About 2 km of rail tracks has also been laid. Structural work of all 21 stations, including platforms, has been completed in a record time of 20 months. The first trains will start arriving by July this year,” he said. “The Metro is likely to roll by end of 2017. Ahead of schedule by three months. The first trail runs will be launched from Greater Noida across 6km, from the Depot station to Knowledge Park,” he added.
 
 The Aqua line will be connected to DMRC’s main grid via the Blue line, through an interchange at Sector 52 Metro station on the Noida City Centre to Sector 62 corridor, which is being built simultaneously. A footbridge will take Aqua line passengers from its originating station at Sector 71 to the Sector 52 Blue line station.
 
 
