THANE: Faulty planning of routes, erratic frequency coupled with ill-maintenance of buses is apparently drawing passengers away from using the   (TMT) services to other modes of transport even though the undertaking has strengthened its fleet.

 A comparative study of the passenger volume by the   over the last four years shows around 72,500 passengers or a volume equal to the carrying capacity of nearly 18,000 fleet cabs or 36,000 bikes have stopped using the services since 2013. The average daily passenger count of TMT has shrunk to barely 1.68 lakhs in 2016 compared to around 2.40 lakhs recorded in 2013.
 
 Experts say the undertaking is fast losing its valued commuters while the management seems to be casual about the situation. It is worth noting the undertaking had added nearly 40 buses to its fleet in the 2015-16 fiscal, but that also didn’t help cut down the commuter loss. 
 
 Experts attribute this mainly to buses plying on wrong routes saying the undertaking is operating long haul routes outside the city completely neglecting those within the city. Each bus that travels out of the city to Mumbai takes nearly 2.5-3 hours to return and considering that nearly 50 buses ply on this section daily, the impact is often felt in the city where commuters are left to the mercy of autos, private buses or own vehicles. 
 
 The population of Thane, especially along GB road, has seen an increase of nearly 2-3 lakhs over the last two years as new sectors opened up gates for real estate development. However, these far flung areas remain to be poorly connected. Of the existing fleet of 353, the undertaking manages to barely operate 200-225 buses daily which is also one of the big reasons for a slump in passenger counts.
 
 “The wait for   is often for over 30 minutes. There are several buses plying the Thane-Borivli route but there aren’t enough buses servicing internal areas like Patlipada village, Waghbil, Majiwada, etc and passengers have to often alight or board at the junctions. Also, the buses operated by the TMT are in extremely bad conditions with seats torn or wobbly, jammed windows, making it a risky affair,” complains Smriti Khushlani, a resident of GB road. Interestingly, while the administration is looking the other way, other modes of travel like fleet cabs and personal mode of travel including public transport buses from neighbouring corporations like Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayender, Vasai, and Mumbai seem be doing a flourishing business here at the expense of the city transport service.
 
 “The BEST alone earns around Rs 15 lakhs and has nearly 18 routes operating within and cutting through the city,” informs a transport officer. The TMT management has apparently consistently failed to deliver over the last few years as despite several out of the turn revenue boost administered by the TMC. The Rs 253 crore public transport budget for fiscal year 2016-17 banks heavily on TMC grants and also heralds the trend of outsourcing premises for earning revenue. 
 
 When contacted, Sudhir Raut, transport manager at the TMT agreed to the drop in passenger volume and promised to take a fresh analysis of demand from the developing areas. “We will survey the routes and get a latest idea of the demand on certain routes. The drop in passengers could also be due to influx of private buses plying illegally along the GB road.” 
 
 
