AMBALA SHAMBHU: The " " announced by   (INLD) for digging   (SYL) canal to get water for   ended on Thursday with the arrest of 73 INLD leaders -Abhay Singh Chautala, MPs Charanjeet Singh Rori and Ram Kumar Kashyap and 18 MLAs -at the Punjab border near Samb hu barrier. Stopped from going to Kapoori village of   for digging SYL, some workers performed symbolic digging at Shambhu barrier itself.

 Despite Ambala cops trying to restrain them from moving towards Punjab border by citing Supreme Court directions to maintain status quo on the issue, the procession of INLD men led by senior leader Abhay Singh in a tractor steered by party president Ashok Arora moved on. However, the plan of action, formulated by police of both states made sure that not all INLD leaders and activists assembled at Ambala vegetable market reached the barricades put up by Punjab. While a large number of activists were not allowed to cross the first line of barricades by Haryana Police, more were stopped at the second barrier and only around 1,500 to 2,000 persons managed to reach the Punjab barricades.
 
 When they neared the barricaded Punjab border at around 3.30 pm, Punjab Police made an announcement informing them about restriction on gathering of five of more persons in the area and urged them to turn back. The “Jal Yudh“ (war for water) announced by Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) for digging Satluj Yamuna Link (SYL) canal to get water for Haryana, ended on Thursday with the arrest of 73 INLD leaders, including Abhay Singh Chautala, MPs Charanjeet Singh Rori and Ram Kumar Kashyap, and 18 MLAs at the Punjab border near Sambhu barrier.
 
 Stopped from going to Kapoori village of Patiala district for digging SYL, some workers performed symbolic digging at Shambhu barrier itself.
 
 After they assembled at the barrier, police told them to disperse. However, after around half and hour, when nobody moved from the area, police arrested senior INLD leaders as a preventive measure. They were taken to transitory control room set up by the state police at Chanson Haveli and produced before the Rajpura SDM, who remanded them to judicial custody till February 27.
 
 Before his arrest, Chautala said that despite Supreme Court's orders, Punjab was denying Haryana its share of water, and they would take what rightfully belongs to the state. He even challenged Punjab politicians, who had been maintaining that the state had not a drop of water to share, to step on Haryana's soil and affirm if Haryana was demanding was `unjust'.
 
 DGP, law and order, H S Dhillon said, “No force of any sort was used against the protesters... No one was allowed to enter the Punjab border and dig the canal. Whatever digging they have done is symbolic.“
 
 The police used drones to keep track of the protesters.Punjab Police started barricading the Shambhu barrier early in the morning. No restrictions were imposed on movement of light vehicles across all border entry points, but Shambhu barrier was completely sealed. Even the Indo-Pak bus was diverted.
 
 Meanwhile, the Patiala cops stopped Simranjit Singh Bains and his brother Balwinder and their supporters from proceedings towards Devigarh segment in the district from where they were to march toward Kapoori to thwart any move by the INLD to enter Punjab.
 
 
 
 INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala told the gathering at Ambala vegetable market to teach alesson to all leaders of Punjab, including Congress, Akali Dal, AAP and BJP, who had opposed SYL water for Haryana. He asked the crowd to deflate the tyres of their vehicles, whenever they pass-through Haryana to visit Delhi or other part of the country.
 
