MUMBAI: To be a good futsal player, you need to have exceptional footwork, surreal coordination and basically, extravagance. During his   playing days,   was the epitome of those qualities. 

 Despite retiring four years ago, the Englishman showed that class is permanent as he guided his team, Bengaluru Royals to a 4-0 victory over Kerala Cobras in their   season 2 clash at the NSCI Stadium here on Saturday. In the second match of the day,  , led by Portuguese star Deco, beat  's   3-1 in a largely one-sided contest. While Deco played the entire match, the Argentinian spent a majority of the match on the bench.
 
 While the first match was labelled the Scholes vs Michel Salgado affair, it was the former who was the clear crowd favourite.During the warm-up, he entertained the spectators by practising shots from the half-line. For the record, the goalkeeper couldn't save any of the six shots he took.
 
 Expecting to see Scholes's famous long-rangers, the crowed screamed `shoot' every time he had the ball in the opponent's half. Playing as the last defender, Scholes did try many shots and close free kicks, but the Kerala goalkeeper did well to thwart his attempts.
 
 His only goal of the match came two minutes from full-time, when he chipped the ball from inside his own half into the open net. The Kerala goalkeeper was on the offensive as his team were 2-0 down.
 
 While Scholes bossed the game, it was Bengaluru's Jonathan Da Silva who stole the show and even broke the deadlock in the 13th minute, courtesy an excellent one-two with teammate and namesake Jonathan. The latter, too, got his name on the scoresheet with a last-minute goal.
 
 Apart from Scholes's deft touches and crunching tackles which were mostly adjudged as fouls, the action on the pitch was rather uninspiring.
 
 The real action came in the fourth and final quarter when Kerala went for the all-or-nothing approach and conceded three goals in the bargain. Deco, Crespo disappoint In terms of excitement, it was the second match that produced more action at the start. The Tigers scored two goals in the first quarter through Luis Gonzalez and Mauro Canal. Gonzalez opened the scoring in heroic fashion, drilling a dead ball from outside the box. He doubled his tally in the 22nd minute after combining well with Deco on the counter. Angel Claudino's 38thminute shot was the only consolation for Chennai.
 
 Deco and Crespo did nothing to justify their star power.Though Deco did play some crafty through balls, he never really threatened the Chennai defence.As for Crespo, in the precious few minutes he was on the pitch, he did dominate defenders with his physical presence but wasn't really able to keep pace.
 
 
