NEW DELHI: The   on Monday appointed a committee of four administrators headed by former Comptroller and Auditor General   to manage the affairs of world's richest cricket body   after its president and other top office bearers were barred from cricket administration.

 
 
 
 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud directed that the committee - also comprising eminent cricket historian  , CEO & MD of Infrastructure Development Finance Company (IDFC)   and former Indian women cricket captain   - would supervise the management of BCCI and CEO of the Board would report to the panel.
 
 
  
  
 
 The court selected the administrators out of the names suggested by senior advocates Gopal Subramaniam and Anil Divan, who are assisting the court as amicus curiae and names recommended by state associations.
 
 The bench turned down the plea of the Centre which contended that Secretary of Ministry of Sports be also nominated as an administrator, saying that its earlier verdict had barred ministers and bureaucrats from holding any post in BCCI and it could not appoint him in violation of apex court's earlier order. 
 
 After a three-year long legal proceedings during which the apex court granted numerous opportunity to BCCI and state cricket associations to bring reforms in cricket administration, the Court finally entrusted the task to inject transparency and accountability in cricket management to the panel. 
 
 The court started hearing the case on cricket reform in March 2014 when the allegation of betting and spot fixing in IPL 2013 came to light but the SC expanded the ambit of the hearing and appointed Justice R M Lodha committee to overhaul the cricket administration in the country.
 
 The apex court on July 18 last year had ordered a comprehensive revamp of the BCCI on the recommendations of Justice Lodha Committee. It had passed a slew of direction to bring administrative reform in cricket administration by barring ministers and bureaucrats from the board and setting an age limit of 70 years for office-bearers. It also directed implementation on one-state-one-vote principle.
 
 As the cricket association refused to fall in line in implementing the recommendation, the apex court replaced the BCCI board and appointed a panel of administrators to ensure compliance of its order. It turned down the plea of Centre, BCCI and other state associations which contended that the court first decide their petition for recall of July order. 
 
 Making it clear that the court order on cricket reform must be complied with, the bench asked the committee to file a status report after four weeks on its implementation.
 
 The court also appointed Amitabh Chaudhary, Anirudh Chaudhary (as suggested by BCCI) and Vikram Limaye to represent the Board in the ICC executive meeting to be held in February first week. The court, however, made it clear that accepting BCCI names did not mean that it had approved their continuance in the management of BCCI affairs and their task was only limited to represent the Board in ICC meeting.
 
 Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Centre, told the bench that its application for recall of July order should be decided by the court before passing order on appointment of administrators. The state associations also supported his contention but the Court remained firm and passed the direction. "We are ensuring implementation of our order. We will go step by step. Let the panel first find out how many of the recommendations have been complied with and what are the recommendations which have not been implemented and why it has not been implemented," the bench said.
 
