CHANDIGARH:   (NRIs), who belong to Punjab, on Friday announced to extend moral support to the Congress as it has promised to set up   to handle property related cases. It has also promised to control the drug menace and to set sup rehabilitation centres.

 “We have specially come to Punjab from across the globe to support and ensure the victory of the Congress party led by Capt Amarinder Singh,” Vikram J.S. Bajwa, who represents British Columbia Peoples Party, told reporters in Chandigarh.
 
 He said he met Capt Amarinder Singh a number of times and he assured to set up fast-track courts soon after coming to power in Punjab.
 
 He said land and property related disputes involving more than 1,200 NRIs have been pending in various courts in the state. “For quite some time the NRIs have been demanding fast-track courts to expeditiously settle their land disputes as they could come to stay in India only for limited period,” he said. Bajwa said the NRIs were supporting the Congress as it had promised to check drug menace in four weeks. “Also it has promised to set up centres to rehabilitate the drug addicts.” “Let’s us bring drug-free Punjab,” he said.
 
 On being asked that what kind of support the NRIs are extending to the Congress in the elections, Bajwa said: “We can’t do financial support because of Indian elections laws.” Expressing doubts over the decision of the Election Commission of India not to hold the simultaneous counting of ballots on the day of polling, he said; “It’s a conspiracy not only against the candidates but for the voters too. The Supreme Court should intervene and both polling and counting should be held simultaneous.”
 
 Bajwa also batted for the dual citizenship of the NRIs like in Pakistan, the US and Canada.
 
 He said many NRIs were keen to contest the elections in the Punjab assembly polls if they were given dual citizenship.
 
 Bajwa said the NRIs were in constant touch with Captain Amarinder Singh to work out modalities to allow them to contest the future elections.
 
 “The participation of NRIs in election process would help cleaning the system as now the Badal family has controlled more than 21 important portfolios in the state,” he said.
 
 Bajwa advocated the need to streamline and focus attention on strengthening education, health and law and order in the state.
 
