JALANDHAR/AMRITSAR: Demand of about half a million   in the UK to be counted as a separate community gained strength with more than 100 MPs signing an open letter to the UK National Statistician. The letter supports the call for a separate Sikh ethnic tick box in the Census 2021.

 The UK Census 2011 saw around 84,000 Sikhs objecting to the existing ethnic group categories by using the write in option and specifying ‘Sikh’ for the ethnicity question.
 
 UK-based Sikh Federation on Tuesday said the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for British Sikhs and a representative from the Sikh Federation (UK) were set to meet deputy national statistician responsible for the Census 2021, Iain Bell, to discuss the issue.
 
 Sikh Federation press secretary   said by Monday night 113 MPs had signed the letter. “15 years ago, the opposition Conservatives working with the leadership of the Sikh Federation (UK) tabled Early Day Motion 1,464 on the same subject that had the signature of an amazing 174 MPs and these included incumbent Prime Minister Theresa May and former PM David Cameron,” he said.
 
 “Sikhs are a legally recognized ethnic group and Sikhs have been protected under UK law following a House of Lords ruling in 1983. A number of issues faced by Sikhs ranging from the reporting of hate crimes through to accessing healthcare provision in the UK are not receiving appropriate attention by public bodies as they often only monitor ethnic group categories specified in the Census. The minority Sikh community has therefore been campaigning in the last two censuses for inclusion of a separate Sikh ethnic tick box for the compulsory ethnicity question,” the open letter reads.
 
 Mentioning that the demand in the Sikh community in UK was continuing to grow, the letter pointed out that the number that raised objection in 2011 was nearly an eight-fold compared to the Census 2001, and several times higher than any other group.
 
  “The Census 2021 is likely to be the last Census and therefore the only opportunity to ensure Sikhs have a separate ethnic tick box which is what public bodies use at the national and local level for public service planning and decision making. We are convinced a separate Sikh ethnic tick box with appropriate publicity in 2021 on its use will also provide a better estimate of the number of Sikhs in England and   (and  ) at a local and national level when looked alongside the optional religious question,” the letter further adds.
 
 “I have made speeches in the Parliament that if the Census allocated tick box to gypsies whose population is around 500 in the UK then why Sikhs are being ignored,” Balwinder Kaur Saundh, member of Sikh Council, UK told TOI on Tuesday.
 
