NAGPUR: After a two-day  , the one-day national Sanskrit conference was inaugurated on Monday morning at MLA Hostel, Civil Lines. About 200 students, researchers and academicians gathered for the event organized by   (KKSU), Ramtek, and Rashtriya Sanskrit Parishad, New Delhi.

 Vice-chancellor of KKSU Uma Vaidya presided over the inaugural function.  , principal, RS Mundle College, Dharampeth, inaugurated the conference. Professor Ramakant Pande, managing director, Mukta Vidyapeeth Kendra, National Sanskrit University was the chief guest.
 
 Nair said that today’s researchers needed to read Kalidas’ literature interpreted in English, especially eco-criticism, Bill Brown’s Thing theory and Reception theory. Pande said, “People speaking Sanskrit should respect other languages and promote a give-and-take of culture.
 
 Dr Nanda Puri, dean of KKSU delivered the keynote address and explained how Kalidas influenced poets like Bamha, Dandi, Udbhat, Anand Vardhan, Abhinav Gupta and others. Vaidya brought attention towards the need of a Kalidas chair in the college to further promote its development. Research papers studying different angles of Kalidas’s literature were presented at the occasion.
 
 Earlier on Sunday, the two-day Bharatvarshiya Sanskrit Sammelan concluded at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. “It's high time to use Sanskrit language in our daily life. This will not only restore the old glory of the language but also help it gain acceptance in the society,” said Baldevanand Sagar, former director of Kalidasa Sanskrit Academy, Ujjain. 
 
 Ramakant Pande said, “Many are uninformed about the books and subjects of Sanskrit, thus, information should reach the students and study and research in the language should be continued.”
 
 “The main objective of the function was to know the traditional subjects of the language in a modern pattern and what the youth knew and thought about Sanskrit,” said Uma Vaidya, adding, “The enthusiasm of the youth towards the function made it successful.” 
 
 The function started with the prize distribution to the winners — Apeksha Ghate, Janvi Deudgaokar, Anand Ghosh, Jarolia and Shubhangi Nayab — for the competition held earlier. Students Tanmay Hardikar of Gogte Joglekar College, Ratnagiti and Renuka Ratnaparkhi of   from Jalgaon had expressed their views about the function.
 
