NAGPUR: As   vacation nears, students chance upon holidays they can utilize to enhance different skills. Accordingly, members of Durg Pratishthan have come up with a project that aims to promote innovation and knowledge of Maharashtra’s history.

 The project ‘chala banvuya kille’ (let’s make forts) brings the idea of eco-friendly kits for making forts to decorate their home for the festival.
 
 Using the kit, students can make Shivaji’s forts, present day forts or the one as per their imagination. The kit comes along with a guide on how to begin as well as photos and maps of   fort, Shivaji’s birthplace. “Many children don’t know that every fort had its own aarti. We are attaching the aarti written by Veer Sawarkar and sung by  . A small extract written on Bal   by Babasaheb Purandare is also a part of the kit,” says Atul Guru, secretary of Durg Pratishthan.
 
 The kit comprises small packs of preliminary items required for the activity such as paintbrush, toothpick, cello tape, grass, sand, clay, paper flags, coriander and mustard seeds, rangoli and so on. The toy of a guard is also given and the primary material add up to 35.
 
 “About 150 things are required to make a fort, but these are the basic things. Students are encouraged to collect other things according to the fort they wish to build,” says Guru.
 
 “We urge students to wear traditional outfit when the fort is ready. We want them to fortify the past and develop deep knowledge into the topic,” Guru says, adding that students are also to make invitations and organize a ceremonial function.
 
 The kits will be assembled by those wanting to spread the idea by themselves with the help of the list provided by Durg Pratishthan.
 
 “We aim to collaborate with more schools and colleges to involve youngsters in understanding the state’s heritage and value,” Guru says.
 
 BR Mundle high school is one of the first schools to have accepted and implemented the idea. This month, the school will make 50 such kits and give it to winners of their creative monthly competitions. “We will be organizing an activity like toran making for Diwali, and winners will be given the kits. Our teachers are assembling it at present along with students,” says  , principal of the school.
 
 She added that the school has conducted programmes around Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, waste segregation, making compost, and banning of Chinese products.
 
