HYDERABAD:   will once again be off the roads from Tuesday onwards as   working with them have called for an   following the death of a driver working with  .

 This would be a second such strike in the city to protest against low earnings, insufficient bookings and lack on incentives being provided by taxi aggregators. 
 
 The immediate provocation for the agitation was the death of an Uber driver, M Praveen alias Kondaiah, on Sunday night, after attempting suicide a day earlier. He had been unable to pay monthly instalments for his car due to poor earnings.
 
 The earlier strike, which was called on New Year Eve, had crippled the service in the city with thousands of cabbies taking part in it. They were forced to put off the agitation later on the intervention of the court. The latest strike, which will be carried out under the aegis of Telangana Cabs Association (TCA), will see the participation of at least 60% of cab drivers.
 
 “After the death of our fellow driver Kondaiah, we have decided to revive our agitation against   and Uber so that no other driver faces the problems that he faced. Starting from midnight, no cab under taxi aggregators will run,” said M Sunil, president of TCA.
 
 He claimed that two other organizations — Telangana Hyderabad Cabs Association (THCA) and Telangana State Drivers Association (TSDA) — have also extended their support to the strike. The two associations together represent nearly 25,000 cab drivers.
 
 Members of two other associations in the city — Telangana Cab Drivers and Owners Association (TCDOA) and Telangana State Cab Association (TSCA) — will not take part in the strike. They, however, took out a rally on Monday from Kondaiah’s residence in Begumpet to the crematorium where his last rites took place.
 
 The day also saw Uber releasing an official statement regarding the driver’s death, but said they have not received any representation. 
 
 “Our heart goes out to M Kondaiah and his family, and our thoughts are with them at this incredibly difficult time. He had been driving part-time on the Uber App since March last year. As always, we stand ready to extend our complete support to the authorities,” the Uber spokesperson said. 
 
 
