NAGPUR: With   for   (NMC) election scheduled from 7.30am on Tuesday, 2,783 polling booths were readied on Monday itself. Around 14,000-15,000 polling staff has been deployed for the election apart from around 5,000 policemen for monitoring law and order.

 The polling staff gathered at 12 counting centres at around 9am on Monday. Returning and assistant returning officers of the zones distributed sealed electronic voting machines (EVMs), technically known as ballot units. Team of four staffers per polling booth with EVMs headed to respective booths by 3pm. The staff then set the EVMs at the polling booths.
 
 Municipal commissioner   told TOI that all polling booths are ready for polling. “I visited all 12 distribution centres. The officials completed the process smoothly. Chief observer   (principal secretary of  ) and I will make rounds to polling booths in the night,” he said.
 
 Zones like Dharampeth and Ashi Nagar ensured that polling parties left for the polling booths by 1pm.
 
 Two staffers will be present at the respective booth during the night. The remaining two will join the team before 5.30am on Tuesday.
 
 Before opening the polling booths for voters, the polling staff will conduct mock poll to test the EVMs. “It will be conducted at 6.30am on Tuesday at all booths. Polling agents of the candidates will cast mock votes. Presiding officer will show number of votes cast and votes for each candidate. Then the officer will ensure zero voting in control unit and seal it for polling,” he said.
 
 Hardikar added that 15% more ballot units have been kept in reserve to ensure replacement in case of any technical snag.
 
 Though the NMC has ensured separate colours for each of four seats in the ballot units, some corporators hinted at confusion among voters due to lack of one EVM for each seat.
 
 The polling parties will seal the control units after polling and hand over it along with EVMs at their respective distribution centres situated at 12 locations on Tuesday evening.
 
