KOLHAPUR: The demand for doubling of   has regained momentum as citizens, activists and stakeholders have yet again raised their voice for the project, which was excluded from the Pune-Miraj-Londha track doubling project in 2015.

 The railway administration had sanctioned Rs 280 crore in the Union budget 2017-18 for the Pune-Miraj-Londha track doubling project. The railway activists in the city have demanded the doubling of 47km rail stretch that connects Kolhapur with Miraj.
 
 The member of central zonal railway users consultative committee  , said, “We have been demanding the doubling of Miraj- Kolhapur rail track since the last couple of years. In the early nineties, there was a plan to double the   track. But it changed over a period of time and Kolhapur was excluded from the original plan.   is necessary for development of Kolhapur. A double line will improve the connectivity with other states and also benefit the industrial sector. Even in 2015, central railway had asked the Pune division to prepare a detailed report on the viability of the projects. But there has been no further development in this regard.”
 
 The president of Kolhapur chamber of commerce and industries Lalit Gandhi, said, “Doubling of track is the need of the hour for development of Kolhapur district. The fast movement of goods and passengers are prerequisite for development. The government has made financial provision for   rail track. It will connect Kolhapur with several ports in the Kokan region. But the fast movement of goods is not possible until a double track is laid between the two cities.”
 
 He further added, “When any new industry wants to set up their factories, they ask for good roads and rail connectivity. Railway is the cheapest mode of transportation. Therefore, we have demanded the track on priority.”
 
 While sources in railway administration said, “We were asked to prepare a report on the land available with the railways, expenditure and land procurement. We are still working on it. We will send the report to higher authorities for further consultation.” 
 
