Ahmedabad: An   working with   drowned in the swimming pool of a club in Gandhinagar after Holi celebrations on Sunday. 

 Shaishav Chauhan, 29, had gone to the swimming pool with his friends for a wash after a mud bath, lost his spectacles and drowned.   have registered a case of accidental death after postmortem. 
 
 His friends allege that when they found Chauhan was not surfacing, they had requested bouncers at the poolside, who pleaded inability to help without instruction from management. 
 
 Good Samaritans present at the pool dived in and brought out Chauhan and a club member who is a doctor tried to revive him, but by then it was too late.
 
 According to police investigators, Chauhan, a resident of Shree Stavan Society in Ghodasar, had been to Infocity Club and Resort on Sunday along with two other friends to enjoy Holi festivities. 
 
 Parth Bhatt, Chauhan’s friend who had accompanied him on Sunday, told TOI that they had visited the Tomatino tub, rain dance and mud bath at the festivities, after which they had asked the authorities to supply clean water for washing off the mud. After making them wait for over half an hour, the management had agreed to let them use the swimming pool on the premises to wash.
 
 “Shaishav had jumped in the pool at around 12.30 pm. Immediately he had lost his spectacles. Due to colour and so many people, it was almost impossible to see below surface,” said Bhatt.
 
 “We immediately raised an alarm when he could not be seen. The bouncers at the spot did not help as they claimed that they have not been instructed by the management. They even had inflatable rings,” he added.
 
 Some of the members who knew swimming got down and found Chauhan’s body. 
 
 Bhatt said that a doctor couple at the spot tried to revive unconscious Chauhan but in vain. “We called up EMRI 108, but the ambulance did not come to the spot and instead we were forced to haul Chauhan to the vehicle. The nurse accompanying the vehicle did not know what to do,” he added.
 
 The ordeal started at Gandhinagar Civil Hospital where Bhatt alleged that the doctors had wasted precious time in determining the treatment. The defibrillator used for shock treatment did not work after two attempts as the doctors claimed that the patient was unresponsive. Chauhan was declared dead at 1.30 pm.
 
 Police investigators said that the primary postmortem report points towards swallowing muddy water as reason for the death, while further probe is on. K M Priyadarshee, inspector of Infocity police station, said that he was on leave when asked about the incident. D B Vala, sub-inspector and investigator of the case did not respond to repeated calls to ascertain whether the club authorities would be questioned in the case.
 
