LUCKNOW: After staying away from the   campaign for the first phase of   to be held in 73 constituencies spread across 15 districts where   ended on Thursday evening, Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch 
  his first public rally this elections.

 While his annoyance with over SP’s pact with Congress was initially cited as the reason for his no-show, it has now transpired that the party candidates themselves are weary of inviting him to canvass for them given his 
  . As on date, the SP founder is slated to address only two public meetings, including one in Jaswantnagar - the assembly constituency of his younger brother Shivpal and the other at Cantonment in Lucknow from where his younger son Prateek's wife Aparna Yadav is in fray.
 
 A host of candidates who were earlier in touch with Mulayam's office, seeking his schedule for a public meeting in their respective assembly constituencies, are now in two minds because of SP veteran's recent flip-flops. “Recently 
  and two days later he said he will campaign for the alliance candidates. No one is ready to handle the risk of such a confusion at this juncture when the campaigning is at its peak," said a candidate.
 
 Mulayam's recent comment that chief minister   Yadav has a negative approach towards Muslims, has also left the candidates hesitant. "Any such comment, which is generally lapped up by the media, can invite negative publicity and harm the entire Muslim-Yadav equation as well," pointed a minister in Akhilesh cabinet who is also a party candidate. 
 
 Earlier, senior party leader Azam Khan, who is a party candidate from Rampur Khas, had expressed confidence that the Mulayam would campaign for him. But sources in SP now said that the party's Muslim face was yet to send a formal request to Mulayam's office, seeking his time and date for a public meeting in Rampur.
 
 Former district president of Yadav clan's pocket borough of Etawah Sunil Yadav told TOI that Mulayam would address a public meeting at Takha in Jaswantnagar on Saturday to seek votes for Shivpal. "Earlier, Netaji (Mulayam) was to address two public meetings in Etawah on February 13 but the program is yet to be finalised," Sunil, who was removed from the post of party's district president for siding with Mulayam and Shivpal during the recent feud within the Yadav clan, said. "Preparations are however under way in full swing for the February 11 event," he said.
 
 
