NASHIK: Autorickshaws are turning out to be the newest hot pick of some criminals, who are using the humble vehicle to carry out their strikes and also target the drivers at the same time. 

 In three incidents on Sunday night at various areas here, some armed goons attacked and robbed   and the   drivers as well.
 
 In the first incident, 32-year-old autorickshaw driver Amol Pardeshi of Shigve Bahula and five passengers from the Rajwada area were making their way to   at 10pm. After dropping off the passengers at the lawns near the Dwarka area, Pardesh asked for his fare.
 
 Instead of paying him, the five started beating up Pardeshi and injured him. They then dragged him out of the driver’s seat and snatched Rs 510 from his pocket before fleeing with his autorickshaw.
 
 Fifteen minutes later, a similar incident took place in the Indiranagar area, around 7km from Dwarka.
 
 Sanket Nimse (26) was walking along the roadside in the Indiranagar area. When he reached the Metro Zone, an autorickshaw suddenly arrived at the scene. Four persons alighted and surrounded Nimse. One of them was armed with a weapon. In his complaint to police, Nimse said the goons asked him to hand over his cash and valuables. A terrified Nimse gave his cellphone and as he was taking the wallet out, his elder brother reached the spot. The criminals then attacked Nimse’s brother as well. Nimse raised an alarm for help and the criminals fled the scene in the autorickshaw.
 
 The third incident also took place at Indiranagar, when some unidentified autorickshaw-borne criminals attacked a pedestrian, Nazir Ansari (26), and fled with his cellphone worth Rs 2,000.
 
  There have been instances in the past when autorickshaw drivers were accused of robbing passengers.
 
  Balsaheb Pathak of the Shramik Rickshaw and   said, “There are certainly criminal elements driving autorickshaws, who hire or rent out the vehicles at night to earn an extra buck. Those with licences from the RTO will never indulge in such activities.”
 
 Commissioner of police Ravinder Kumar Singal said, “Instructions have been given to the deputy commissioners of police and assistant commissioners of police to arrest the criminals at the earliest. We are sure about their arrest.” 
 
