PATNA: Amid the ‘suspenseful’ silence of CM   on the   in the   over corruption charges against deputy CM  , JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok on Friday targeted its allies again and said Congress can’t pursue secularism while being a party to corruption. 

 Nitish again refused to talk to newsmen on the issue after an official programme of the state government here on Friday.
 
 Congress MLC Dilip Choudhary on Thursday had ridiculed JD(U) spokespersons for seeking explanation from Tejashwi on the CBI allegations made against him in an FIR lodged on July 5. “Congress can’t fight the battle of secularism against fascist forces while being a party to corruption. Why is Congress silent on the issue when serious corruption charges have been levelled against Tejashwi? It is not necessary that only JD(U) should speak against corruption,” Ajay told TOI.
 
 Congress has apparently been donning the mediator role since the tussle between Grand Alliance partners JD(U) and Lalu Prasad’s RJD started after the CBI raids on Lalu premises on July 7. Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan has written a letter to party vice-president Rahul Gandhi for his guideline on the corruption charges against RJD leaders. 
 
 Reiterating the JD(U) demand for explanation from Tejashwi, Alok said, “Political values are dropping sharply due to corruption charges against politicians and young politicians (Tejashwi) are aggravating such perception by not giving proper explanation to the people, even though FIR loaded with serious charges has been lodged against him. A wrong message about the party as well as the alliance is being spread among the young voters, who comprise around 65% of the electorate.”
 
 JD(U) also targeted senior RJD functionary and finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui for ruling out Tejashwi’s resignation. Pointing out that Siddiqui’s position has been degraded in the government, JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh said: “Earlier, he used to take oath at number two position in the cabinet. Now, he has come down to number five.”
 
