Mysuru: At a time when the government is stressing the need for   at schools, many private school teachers are teaching interested kids free of cost. Although there is no shortage of   clubs in the city, many of these charge exorbitant prices turning play into an expensive activity, but these physical education (PE) teachers have taken it upon themselves to promote sporting culture among the younger generation.

 The initiative was started by Prakash, a physical education teacher at the Vidya Vardhaka Sangha school at Kuvempunagar, four years ago. When he expressed his plan of teaching games to interested kids in the city, to   from other schools, they were more than willing to join hands with Prakash in this endeavor.
 
 Raghavendra of Sharadha Public School, Shivakumar S of Vijaya Vittal School, Bhaskar J from Adhichunchanagiri School, Chandrashekar AL of VVS PN High School, Krishnaswamy AL of Kalidasa School, Kumar HJ of Orchid School, Nagendra M from Pragathi School were among those who cast their lot with Prakash to promote a sporting culture in Mysuru.
 
 These like-minded PE teachers started the ‘Palace Sports Club’ in 2014. However, owing to lack of financial support, the club has been functioning without an office of its own, and holding its monthly meetings at convention halls when there are no functions being hosted.
 
 Prakash said that he hit upon the idea of promoting sports among kids when he noticed that they hardly allotted time for  . “Students, particularly those studying in central syllabus schools just run from one tuition centre to another, leaving them no time for physical activities,” Prakash added.
 
 Unfazed by the low turnout for a kho-kho competition they organised three years ago for children – only 15 kids turned up for the event – the club members decided to encourage their students to take up sports such as volleyball, cycling and other games on a daily basis.
 
 One of the members, Paramesh said, “We started holding sporting activities at a playground in Kuvempunagar and started training kids in various games. We hold these sessions in the morning or on Sundays and holidays to ensure the students’ regular activities are not affected.”
 
 The club recently held a running race on Independence Day and National Sports Day, with the winners being presented cash rewards. Similarly, a volleyball competition was held for boys last year.
 
 Prakash, also the secretary of the club, said, “The district administration, which is organizing a marathon competition as part of Dasara has hired 15 members from our club.” He added that there were plans to start training kids in indoor games as well.
 
 
