There’s been growing awareness about garbage segregation across the city, but sanitary waste disposal still requires addressing. That’s where art can magically intervene. As part of its campaign to raise awareness about sanitary waste disposal,  , India’s first wholly-owned cooperative of self-employed waste pickers, will collaborate with city art enthusiasts today to stencil-paint over 1500 pushcarts with public service messages.

 
 
 That's the amount Pune generates, says SWaCH's data. Ravi Kumar, outreach assistant at SWaCH, informs, "It is often wrapped in paper and disposed. During sorting, waste pickers are exposed to the harmful pathogens from such waste, making them prone to disease." Sanitary waste, which includes pads, tampons, diapers and  , is often made from non-degradable materials. These findings gave rise to the 'red dot campaign'.
 
 
 
 Last year, the Ministry of Environment and Forests, made it mandatory for households to segregate sanitary waste at source in clearly marked bags. Suchismita Pai, outreach in-charge at SWaCH, says, "The campaign emerged from the new rule, and to ensure the dignity of waste-pickers, of not having to handle public bodily waste. The idea was simple; to pack sanitary waste in paper/any material and mark it with a significant red dot. This would tell waste pickers that it is sanitary waste that mustn't be opened, kept separately and sent for treatment."
 
 
 
 
 Over 30 students, including women from SNDT Women’s University and Cummins College, will gather at the Uruli Kanchan waste depot and stencil-paint 1500 odd pushcarts used by waste pickers. Street artist   will train participants on how to stencil-paint educational messages. Anyone interested in volunteering, can visit the location between 1 and 5 pm. While the pushcarts can be painted over the entire month as per convenience, locations and logistics will be decided after today’s meeting. Several corporate employees have also expressed interest in the drive.
 “It is encouraging to see so many women come forward. It’ll remove the stigma often attached to even publicly talking about sanitary pads,” says Ravi.
 
 
 
 Suchismita says, "The project will directly reinforce the message among 3000 odd waste pickers who will use these pushcarts daily. The public, too, will see the messages of the red-dot campaign on these carts. That's the key role art will be playing in the process." 
 
 
 
 The pushcarts will bear images of, and messages by Sughandhabai, the mascot of SWaCH. She will spread word about improving household management of sanitary waste.
 
  We process 650 tonnes of waste a day and have to open every packet during segregation. Imagine our horror everytime we come across a blood-soaked pad. We talk about recycling but what about our dignity and health?
 — Mangal Gaikwad, a waste picker
 
 
 
  
  
