Mumbai: Tata Sons, the holding company of the  , has called a shareholder meeting on February 6 to remove   from its directorship.   is the only company on which Mistry remains a director after he resigned from the boards of all listed Tata companies following his ouster as chairman of the parent.

 If Tata Sons’ shareholders vote Mistry out, it will end the Mistry family’s decade-old representation on the board. Mistry became a director in 2006 after his father Pallonji Mistry retired from Tata Sons. Though the Mistrys do not have a right to the board seat, one of the family members has been occupying the position of a non-executive director at Tata Sons mainly due to their shareholding in the company. The family holds about 18.5% stake in Tata Sons, an investment made by Mistry’s grandfather in 1960.
 
 Besides Mistrys, the other shareholders of Tata Sons are Tata Trusts (66%), listed Tata Group companies and Tata family members, including  , Jimmy, Noel and Simone. The identity of the shareholders that moved the proposal to remove Mistry from Tata Sons board couldn’t be ascertained. A Tata Sons spokesperson said that the proposal was not initiated by individual shareholders.
 
 The move to remove Mistry from Tata Sons is the latest development in the Mistry vs Ratan Tata saga that began in October after the former was replaced as Tata Sons chairman.
 
 Mistry in an interview to TOI last month had said that he will remain on the board of Tata Sons “as long as they don’t throw me out”. Tata Sons said that it is seeking Mistry’s removal to ensure confidentiality of board decisions. “The board of Tata Sons is of the view that the integrity of the board proceedings is being jeopardised by Mistry’s continuation as a director and the confidentiality of the board decisions and proceedings cannot be ensured as the documents presented to the board have been leaked and made public in a distorted and untruthful manner,” said the Tata Sons notice.
 
 Shriram Subramanian, founder, InGovern Research Services, a shareholder advisory firm, told Bloomberg that “this is final step that Tata Trusts can take to remove Mistry. It is unfortunate that the battle has come to this stage where there will be no representation of the family in one of India’s largest holding companies”.
 
 
