VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite facing a major setback in the form of the   last year, the Maoists in Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) areas are increasing their formations and gradually gaining strength. The security forces in both AP and Odisha suspect that the naxals have been able to recover from the damages with the help of battalions from Dandakaranya in  .

 Four to five companies of PLGA teams from Chhattisgarh have been deployed to various places in AOB. According to sources, all these teams were detached from the Maoist battalions in Sukma and Dantewada districts of Chhattisgarh. It is a strategy to decentralise the forces and show strong presence to support their cadres wherever the rank and file is weak, the sources added. 
 
 Another information that has the cops on high alert is that the work of monitoring and guiding the affairs in AOB have been entrusted to senior central committee leaders Mallojula Venugopala Rao alias Sonu of   (DKSZC), the younger brother of Kishanji who was killed in the West Midnapore encounter, and Tipparthi Tirupati alias Deoji. Both the leaders are experts in political campaigning and military actions. They also have experience in guiding squads in difficult situations and terrains, the sources said. 
 
 Having more than three and a half decades of experience in naxal movements in north Telangana and Dandakaranya, both the central committee members are now concentrating on strengthening the squads in AOB, the sources claimed. 
 
 After facing severe losses in the Ramaguda encounter, the politburo and central committee of CPI Maoists reportedly assigned Sonu and Deoji to lead the Maoist movement in AOB. According to intelligence inputs, both of them along with former secretary of AOB RK alias Ramakrishna held discussions regarding the present conditions in AOB before chalking out plans in December last year. 
 
 “The naxals have been engaging in Tactical Counter Offence Campaign (TCOC) in AOB areas,” a senior police official said, adding that though the number of Maoists and their militia members has come down in recent times, the involvement of cadres in the   blast where eight drivers of Koraput district police department were killed proves the additional deployment of cadres from Chhattisgarh. 
 
 When contacted, Visakha Rural SP   said they have received information about Maoist movement in Visakhapatnam district and are taking precautionary measures. 
 
