GREATER NOIDA: Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) chairman Prabhat   has directed the additional CEO to investigate an alleged scandal concerning more than 900 acres of land bought directly from   by individuals at low rates and sold to   at higher rates.

 The allegation, apparently brought to the notice of the chairman by a group of farmers recently, is that YEIDA spent about Rs 750 crore for buying the non-contiguous land, which was not part of the approved Master Plan 2021, between the years 2012 and 2015, to oblige some state officials and politicians of the previous UP government. The ACEO, Amarnath Yadav, has been directed to submit a report by May 30, 2017.
 
 Kumar has directed officials to probe the farmers’ allegations of influential persons having bought land at low rates from farmers up to March 2015 and later sold to YEIDA at much higher rates. “It is a serious matter and we will get to the bottom of it,” he said.
 
 “I have asked the ACEO to examine all details including who made the proposal for the purchase and when; who initiated it; for what purpose; from whom the land was purchased; and the rate of purchase,” he said. “Once I have the report by the end of the month, I will examine it in detail and thereafter take appropriate action. If need be, we will forward the report to the state government for further action,” Kumar said.
 
 According to YEIDA officials, the issue relates to about 937 acres of land, which was located in an agriculture-deemed area. It was part of a draft MastPlan-2021 but was not included in the final plan of either Master Plan 2021 or 2031, both of which are now approved by the government. If land purchased from farmers by YEIDA was not part of the master plan, for what use did YEIDA buy the land, Kumar asked.
 
 Even though officials could not confirm where exactly the patches of land are located, sources said that they are located near the proposed Jewar airport site, Mathura near Bajna, and Bulandshahr. “I had brought this up to former YEIDA chairperson  , and he had asked us to prepare a detailed report and put it before the board. However, the government changed hands soon after,” YEIDA CEO Arunvir Singh said.
 
 Last week, Singh had ordered the formation of a five-member committee to investigate another alleged Rs 65-crore   related to 80 acres of land acquired for setting up a power station along the Yamuna expressway. 
 
