Thane: From finding out their child’s attendance, homework schedule and exam scores to receiving emergency updates from the school authorities,   of the students studying in Thane’s Brahman Shikshan Mandal School will now have access of every aspect of their child’s schooling at a click of a button.

 The state-board English medium school launched a new   application titled BSM Schola, in an attempt to increase the interaction between the teachers, administration and parents in a way that includes these guardians in the academic and extra-curricular activities of their child. The mobile-based app was launched on Saturday morning.
 
 Through this Android App, school teachers and the principal will be able send the parents regular updates on their child’s attendance, report cards, school competitions, events, notifications on emergencies like declaration of holidays because of rains or change in the dates of any class test and so on.
 
 While school teachers and the principal can feed information into the app using their unique username and passwords, guardians can access this information using ID and password provided to them.
 
 Through this informative mobile application, the students, class teacher or subject teacher can send the parents information on their exam scores, due homework, attendance and other such target information to the entire class at one go or even to an any individual student.
 
 The principal, meanwhile, will send in notifications to the entire school on various topics including emergency holidays, shifting of exam schedules, school functions etc.
 
 Those parents who cannot access the mobile   will be able to access all this information using a computer. Apart from this, the students’ calendars or school diaries will be updated as usual.
 
 “It is great to see that a state board school is taking initiatives that otherwise is seen only in international  . With access to all this information we can see that our children don’t fall under peer pressure and bunk school or hide their report cards. We can also refer to the event schedule and plan our vacations accordingly,” said a parent of a class XI student of the school.
 
 
