GUWAHATI: Chakma and   from erstwhile East Pakistan, who were settled in   by the Centre between 1964 to 1969 and who have been fighting for citizenship in this country ever since, feel it is unjust that their forefathers were settled in the frontier state for strategic purposes immediately after India’s debacle at the hands of China and that they now find themselves to be ‘nowhere people’.

 General secretary of Citizenship Rights of the Chakmas and Hajongs of Arunachal Pradesh (CRCHAP), which is fighting the battle for citizenship in the Supreme Court, Santosh Chakma, told TOI that Chakmas and Hajongs have been made scapegoats.
 
 “After the 1962 war, the government of India gave arms training to our people to safeguard the border. The training was given by the erstwhile Special Service Bureau (now the Seema Sashastra Bal) every year. Our settlements in Diyun (Changlang district) and Chowkham (Lohit district) are close to the border (Chinese). Our forefathers were settled strategically to guard the border and now after more than 50 years somebody says we have to go back to the country which no longer exists. I think that is being ungrateful to us,” Chakma said.
 
 He said after the 2902 families comprising 14,888 persons were settled in Arunachal Pradesh between 1964 and 1969, the government of India provided them with all facilities. “Till 1980, for 16 years, we enjoyed everything. Anybody with a little bit of education was summarily absorbed in government jobs. The government settled us, allotted land, built schools, community halls and dispensaries, gave our people agricultural assistance,” he added.
 
 He said the entries of all Chakma and Hajong refugees into the country were documented at Dharmanagar in Tripura, Aizawl in Mizoram (then Lushai Hills) and Karimganj in Assam. “They were all taken to Ledo in Tinsukia district by train and kept there in camps for six months before being settled in what was then NEFA (Northeast Frontier Agency) and now is Arunachal Pradesh,” Chakma said.
 
 He said the Chakmas, natives of Chittagong Hills Tracts (now in Bangladesh), wanted to be part of India at the time of Partition. “Our leaders met Sardar Ballabhbhai Patel. When Radcliffe drew the boundary with Bangladesh and gave CHT to Bangladesh we protested as in this region 98.5% population were non-Muslims .”
 
 Then came the construction of the Kaptai Dam in CHT and the Chakmas and Hajongs were displaced from the area. After they were allowed to be rehabilitated as per the decision of the government of India, they entered the country, some via present day Mizoram and others some through Tripura and Karimganj in Assam.
 
