JAIPUR: A study on   undertaken in Srinagar and Kekri blocks of   has thrown up some interesting findings – there is wide acceptance of the practice, which is seen as a way to prevent unacceptable sexual alliances and secure  .

 A total of 535 households in 19 villages were surveyed for the purpose, and group discussions were held with 30 caste groups to elicit opinions on child marriage. Despite high acceptance for child marriage among adults, adolescent girls expressed the desire for education and a keenness to explore marriage of their own choice.
 
 Ninety per cent of households surveyed earned less than Rs 2 lakh per year. The average household size was over five persons, so the income status was quite low. The study, undertaken by   in collaboration with the Institute for Development Studies, found that deep rooted patriarchal norms, illiteracy, acceptance of child marriages by caste panchayats, and traditional practices all went a long way in keeping child marriage alive.
 
 Practices like ‘nata’ (taking on a partner either on the death of a husband or even while he is still alive, without a socially accepted marriage) or ‘aata sata’ (a form of exchange in marriage where the son might be married to the daughter of another family and the groom’s sister in turn marries the bride’s brother) were still followed.
 
 Child marriage was also seen as economical – marriages were sometimes performed to coincide with festivals like Akha Teej or even the community feast after a death, so costs could be kept low. Seventy-three per cent of respondents said that child marriage was held because it was the prevalent norm. Once the girl moved to her husband’s house, she was typically expected to help with all household chores.
 
 Even before the  , 2006, the colonial government had introduced the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929. However, Census 2011 showed that 170 lakh children less than 19 had married. A state-wise analysis of Census 2011 data shows that Rajasthan had the largest percentage of girl children married before they turned 18 – 32%.At the macro level, child marriage contributes to maintaining the inter-generational cycles of poverty leading to further marginalization of women in society. Yet among women aged 20 to 24 worldwide, one in four were child brides. Many factors place a girl at risk of marriage, including poverty, the perception that marriage will provide ‘protection’, family honour… Child marriage often compromises a girl’s development by resulting in early pregnancy and social isolation, interrupting her schooling, limiting her opportunities for career and vocational advancement and placing her at increased risk of domestic violence,” the report says.
 
 One case study was of Maya of the Doli caste in Padampura village – she was married when she was just two-and-a-half years old, and sent to her husband’s household when she turned 15. After a year, her brother was married to her husband’s sister in the ‘aata sata’ exchange. Although her husband is alcoholic and regularly fights with her, the girl feels stuck in her marriage. Breaking her own marriage would strain her brother’s marriage. Members of the Gujjar community told researchers during a group discussion that a boy should marry by the time he sprouts a moustache and a girl before she begins menstruating. Of the 2,994 people surveyed as part of this study, 41.2% had married before turning 18.
 
 There were, however, signs of change – 95% of respondents said education was necessary for girl children too. It was observed that the higher the level of education, the older the girl became before she got married.
 
 “Families, which recognize the need for education of girls, do not lay emphasize on early marriage,” the report says.
 
