HYDERABAD: After playing truant for several weeks, the southwest monsoon holds out a ray of hope for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. For the first time in the season, Srisailam reservoir received more than one lakh cusecs of water during the last 24 hours. This could mean that over the next few days, water could flow downstream to Nagarjunsagar and mitigate the drinking water crisis being faced by Hyderabad and   districts. Andhra Pradesh will also stand to benefit as any inflows into Srisailam will boost supplies to Rayalaseema.

 Flood water from all sides is now streaming towards Srisailam, which on Saturday crossed the major psychological barrier of 834 feet to touch 838 feet. Water can be released to Nagarjunsagar after the level crosses 834 feet and the fact that the current level is four feet above than required augurs well for Hyderabad city . Till two days ago, everybody had lost hope of the water breaking the 834-feet barrier because of the meagre inflows. But thanks to heavy inflows on Thursday and Friday from Tungabhadra, Sunkesula and   into Srisailam, the scenario has suddenly turned rosy . In the last two days, the water level at Srisailam increased by 10 feet leading to the addi tion of about 25 tmc feet water.At present, at the level of 838 feet, the dam has about 60 tmc feet of water. Meanwhile, flood water from upper Krishna continues to inundate Jurala reservoir because of which it had to open 13 gates to release about 89,000 cusecs of water. Jurala dam is now full to the brim with the water level having reached the full reservoir level (FRL). To avoid any damage to the dam, irrigation officials are releasing whatever water that is coming from Narayanpur downstream.
 
 The flood water discharge is likely to increase in the next few days and continue for at least a week as the release into the river from Ujjani has increased to 63,037 cusecs and that from Narayanpur to over 67,000 cusecs. The water level at Sunkesula dam too has reached the FRL because of which 15 of its gates had to be opened to release water downstream to Srisailam. Discharges from Bhima, a tributary of river Krishna, also doubled in the last two days. Thanks to heavy rains in the upper catchment area, all these dams which have not yet reached the FRL are slated to do so over the next 48 hours.
 
 Meanwhile, to make use of the flood water to the full extent, the Telangana Genco has started power generation at Jurala Hydro Electric   and is presently generat ing 4.5 million units by running all the units.
 
 Interestingly, the water levels in the projects in the Godavari Basin also improved in the last three days. Kadem, Singur, Yellampally and Sriramsagar projects have started receiving heavy inflows. While Kadem dam has reached the FRL, Yellampally and Singur will take a couple of days to do so. Despite heavy inflows into Sritamsagar Project (SRSP), the water level is still hovering around 1,076 against the FRL of 1,091feet. Besides, inflows to Mid-Manair and Lower Manair have not yet picked up resulting in drop in ayacut under cultivation. All in all, the situation was better last year when all the projects in the Godavari Basin in the state were overflowing by this time.
 
