Bengal might have missed out on the biggies, but it was still a decent run for Tollywood at the 64th National Film Awards, announced on Friday. The tally of awards in the feature film category went up to five as against last year’s one. While Kaushik Ganguly’s   was declared the Best Bengali Film, two awards went to   and Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s Praktan —   got the Best Lyrics award for Tumi jake bhalobasho and   was adjudged the Best Female Playback Singer for the same song. Anupam shared his award with Vairamuthu for Tamil film Dharma Durai’s song, Enthapakkam. The other two awards went to Deep Choudhury for Alifa, and child artistes Samiul Alam and Noor Islam for Sahoj Pather Goppo. The latter shared the award with Adish Praveen (Kunjudaivam) and Manohara K (Railway Children). 
Said Kaushik, whose Shabdo had won the Best Feature Film in Bengali in 2012. “I am elated. This award will help increase the curiosity in Bishorjon. Also, it’s a victory for original cinema — something I have been championing for years now,” he said. A love story revolving around an Indian Muslim and a Bangladeshi Hindu woman, Bishorjon is an account of Hindus living in Bangladesh.
 
  
  
 
 Iman Chakraborty, who wasn’t aware of her win before we called her, said the feat couldn’t have been achieved without the support of the director duo and, of course, Anupam. “I ventured into playback with this song and I can’t believe I won the National Award for it!” she exclaimed. Her mentor, Anupam, was his nonchalant self as he said, “It’s been seven years that I am working in this industry and I am thankful to everyone who stood by me, including my audience.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Deep Choudhury, who won the Indira Gandhi Award for Best Debut Film of a Director for the Alifa, starring Jaya Seal Ghosh, said, “I’m overwhelmed. I had to pinch myself to believe it. My phone was not working from the morning, so my producer called me on my wife’s phone to share the news. I was speechless. I started the film in 2015 — it’s a human saga of poverty and economic imbalance that was shot in three schedules. This award means a lot to me.”
 
  
  
 
 Two other kids turned out to be showstealers at the awards. Samiul Alam and Noor Islam won the Best Child Artist award for Manas Mukul Pal’s Sahoj Pather Goppo, a film that was selected in the Indian Panorama of IFFI, Goa, last year. Said Samiul, “Manas kaku told me that I will get an award from the President of India. I guess this is a very big award, as a lot of people are calling on my father’s mobile. This is my first film.”
 National Awards’ Kolkata connection doesn’t end here. Shoojit Sircar and Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury’s Pink was feted as the Best Film on Other Social Issues.
 
 
 
