NEW DELHI: India captain  's availability for IPL-10 will be known only in the second week of this month as he undergoes rehabilitation for an injured shoulder, the BCCI said on Saturday.

 Updating the fitness status of Indian players, who took part in the just-concluded home Test series against Australia, the BCCI said Kohli will undergo rehabilitation for the injury sustained during the Ranchi Test.
 
 "The Indian captain will undergo rehabilitation after sustaining an injury to his right shoulder. His recovery will be assessed in the second week of April to determine an exact return to play date for  ," the BCCI said in a release.
 
 A host of top Indian players will either miss the   or be rested from some initial matches of the cash-rich event. These players will need some rest after a gruelling home season to be fully fit for the Champions Trophy coming up in England in June. India are defending the title they won in 2013.
 
 Premier India off-spinner  , who was set to represent Rising Pune Supergiants, will not be available for the entire IPL due to recurrence of sports hernia while Test openers   (last year's captain of Kings XI Punjab) and Lokesh Rahul (RCB) are also virtually ruled out due to imminent shoulder surgeries.
 
 The BCCI Medical Team said Ashwin will miss the entire IPL as he has been advised 6-8 weeks of rehabilitation to recuperate from his groin pain.
 
 "Mr. R Ashwin - the all-rounder has reported groin pain and has been advised 6-8 weeks of rehabilitation, which he will undergo and hence will not be available for the upcoming IPL season."
 
 A 100 per cent fit Ashwin is a must for India in the upcoming Champions Trophy from June 1 and playing 14 matches with little gap and lot of travelling would have only aggravated his problem.
 
 The 30-year-old all-rounder has featured in all the 13 home Test matches this season. He has had an unbelievable workload of bowling a staggering 738.2 overs in which, he has taken an astounding 82 wickets.
 
 It is the highest by any Indian bowler in a season, contributing handsomely in bulk of India's 10 Test victories.
 
 Regarding Rahul and Vijay, the BCCI said, "Mr. K Lokesh Rahul - the opening batsman is likely to undergo surgery of his left shoulder and may not be available for IPL 2017 season during which he will have to complete his rehabilitation.
 
 "Mr. M Vijay - the Indian opener will require surgery to his right wrist and also undergo rehabilitation for his left shoulder and hence may not be able to participate in IPL 2017."
 
 Kolkata Knight Riders pacer   and Gujarat Lions' biggest draw   have been given some time to freshen up and will not be available for their respective franchises in the first couple of matches.
 
 Umesh and Jadeja are automatic selections in India's Champions Trophy squad.
 
 "Mr. R Jadeja & Mr. Umesh Yadav - have been advised rest for 2 weeks to recuperate. Mr. R Jadeja has issues with the spinning finger & Mr. Umesh Yadav has right hip and lower back soreness and they will recover during the initial phase when their respective teams will play their first and second match of IPL 2017."
 
 Jadeja has also sent down a lot of overs in this home season. He has bowled no less than 717.2 overs, getting 71 wickets.
 
 Fast bowler Umesh has bowled 355.5 overs in 12 games with 30 wickets to his name. One has to take into account that Umesh's overs were bowled in Indian conditions where, save Kolkata and Dharamsala, the wickets were not exactly conducive to fast bowling.
 
 However, Mumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma, who is expected to be picked for the Champions Trophy, and his team-mate Hardik Pandya, have been cleared to play for the full IPL season.
 
 "Mr. Rohit Sharma and Mr. Hardik Pandya - have been declared fit to play competitive cricket. They will be available for IPL 2017," the BCCI said. 
 
