DEHRADUN: The   ( ) has launched a survey to check voters’ pulse before giving final touches to the candidates’ list for the one-phase Uttarakhand assembly polls on February 15.
 
 Tickets will be given to candidates by taking into account findings of the survey for all the 70 seats in the state as the BJP aims to make a clean sweep this elections.
  
 A BJP leader admitted that the selection of candidates has become more of survey-oriented so as to ensure that nothing goes wrong in picking up candidates having winning potential.
  
 In 2012, the BJP national unit had burnt its fingers by blindly following recommendations of senior Uttarakhand leaders in candidates’ selection.
  
 But this election, the things have changed in the saffron party, said a senior BJP leader, adding: “This time, the survey findings are being followed strictly to evaluate the winning ability of candidates in each constituency. The system of MPs or senior leaders recommending candidates has been closed.”
  
 Since November, over half a dozen surveys have been conducted at the behest of the BJP national headquarters in Delhi to scan popularity of candidates, profile of constituencies, voting patterns, issues of women and youth and much more.
  
 The latest survey, however, focuses on the constituencies where more than two candidates are on equal footage, and also on the constituencies where candidates’ popularity has slipped down among the voters.
  
 Seats where the BJP faces tough choice include Kedarnath, Roorkee, Lansdowne, Kotdwar and Dharampur.
  
 In Kedarnath, the party has three choices — Ajendra Ajay, Asha Nautiyal and  . In Lansdone, the party has Dalip Singh Rawat and Harak Singh Rawat, whereas in Kotdwar, the party has Shalendra Singh Rawat and inductee Harak Singh Rawat.
  
 In Roorkee, inductee   and Suresh Chand Jain are vying for the ticket. In Dehradun, the party has trouble in Dharampur, where mayor Vinod Chamoli and   have locked horns for a ticket.
  
 The findings of the survey will clarify the exact position of each candidate in their respective constituencies and a final decision to award a ticket will be taken after the findings of the survey are complied.
 
 “Everyone, even contestants, knows about the survey being done in their respective constituencies and their selection will be done on that basis,” said another BJP leader.
