AURANGABAD: As students cry foul against the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University’s   (CBCS) pattern of exams for post-graduate courses, the system is likely to make its entry into undergraduate exams as well.

 Students have alleged that the CBCS that was started in November 2015, is far from smooth and comes with several drawbacks. A students union has submitted a detailed complaint on this to Governor C Vidyasagar Rao.
 
 The   (UGC) had said that the CBCS will ensure seamless mobility and transfer of students and also mutual recognition of credits across higher educational institutions in the country. But, students allege that Bamu’s glitch-ridden system is not serving the purpose.
 
 Tukaram Saraf, Bharatiya Vidyarthi Sena coordinator, said, “Bamu has framed the CBCS when no decision-making bodies were in place. Considering the intrinsic flaws the CBCS carries, doubts arise on whether the university undertook the entire exercise as a knee-jerk reaction to the UGC directives.”
 
 Under the system, university departments have to mandatorily credit points for study of the Indian Constitution. Students from affiliated colleges, however, do not have such compulsion. This difference may not ensure a level playing field to students and will eventually raise doubts over the equivalence of a particular degree offered once the course ends.
 
 Namdev Kahare, a liberal arts student, said, “The reforms in CBCS should be student-centric. Those pursuing higher studies must be offered maximum flexibility and mobility in the learning process. Bamu should scrutinise systems adopted by other leading universities before implementing anything in a haphazard manner.”
 
 The CBCS has also caused a dilution of core teaching subjects by considerably reducing its percentage in overall credit, the students said. While 80% weightage was to be given to core subjects, Bamu’s CBCS has reduced it to below 60%. 
 
 The system also gives undue weightage to internal assessment as external evaluation has been scrapped. Students have demanded that equal importance be given to internal and external assessment.
 
 The CBCS doesn’t have any class or grade improvement scheme. The lack of such provisions could have irrevocable effect on careers of students as a considerable number of students earlier opted for the class or grade improvement exams, they said.
 
 In its current format, the CBCS does not have an effective redressal system. As the provision of procuring answer sheet photocopies was done away with, this will curtail further redressal avenues, the students said. 
 
 Satish Patil, director of Bamu’s board of college and university development, however, said that the implementation of the CBCS pattern is an evolving process. “The UGC guidelines were followed while framing the system and all stakeholders are being consulted. We have made room for feedback and important suggestions will be taken into account,” he said. 
 
