CHANDIGARH: In the aftermath of demonetisation and the   keeping a strict vigil on poll expenditure, most candidates for the Punjab assembly elections are opting for personalized neighbourhood meetings at houses of key local supporters in urban areas. This way, the politicians get a chance to put across their point to small groups of 20-25 people at each stop. The three key parties – the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and   (SAD) — have also made a departure of holding big rallies for local candidates so far.

 Congress candidate from Mohali Balbir Singh Sidhu said when he goes out for door-to-door campaigning; he invariably ends up interacting with a gathering of local voters at the house of one of the supporters in the area. “It is a cost effective way of having one-on-one contact with more people than just speaking from the stage,” he said.
 
 AAP’s Sahnewal candidate Harjot Singh Bains said that since his party had declared its candidates much before other parties, the campaign has now shifted to the next level with public meetings. “But such interactions with small groups of voters in each part of the constituency are still being organized. It is another trend ushered into Punjab politics by AAP. In the previous elections, the other parties used to splurge on rallies,” he said.
 
 “Such meetings are good for any discussion; these intimate settings are backed by warmth and candor and are easy for the conversation flow. I feel it is very important to have a candid dialogue with people where we can understand their plight, register expectations, explain our policies and connect with people on a very personal level. Such meetings help in a fruitful dialogue with people,” added another Congress candidate Jagmohan Singh Kang who is contesting from Kharar.
 
 However, now with the campaign set to reach its zenith, key leaders across parties will begin whirlwind tours of various constituencies to address rallies. A large rally requires between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore to mobilize public and transport them. Both the Congress and AAP are focusing on door to door drives and small public meetings but big rallies are being planned towards the end of the campaign.
 
 Congress candidate from Bathinda Urban Manpreet Singh Badal said this time he was focused equally on personalized campaigning stopping by at houses of supporters, besides public meetings, because it was a new assembly constituency he was contesting from. “I need to know the key people and their grievances in each part of the constituency and it works that way. Had it been Gidderbaha, I wouldn’t need to campaign so hard. Besides, even at the level of communication, such interactions are more fruitful,” he said.
 
 In July last year, AAP had decided to step up its election campaign from mid-July with a series of 38 public meetings in the semi-urban areas of Punjab. Alongside, 300 specially-designed vehicles will distribute and a campaign to spread awareness about the ‘youth manifesto’ of the party. “Training sessions were held for volunteers to discuss the required format of nukkad meetings is also being held. The goal was to create moderators for nukkad meetings out of all volunteers,” added an AAP leader.
 
