BHADOHI: Youth in the villages of   here are charting out their own future. These youngsters, in the 18-22 age group, weave carpets daily, but have not given up on education. “We do it (weave carpets) to run our kitchen,” said Gulzar Ali, the first graduate in the village. 

 More than 90% of people in Manapur village are into carpet weaving even though the trade is no longer profitable. Weavers are provided raw material by the export houses and companies, and are paid Rs 600 to Rs 700 per metre of carpet they weave. 
 
 Weavers rely on ‘conductors’ (middlemen) for work, who are a link between exporters and weavers. “Once youth in our village get educated we can operate our own business because then we would be aware of the market,” says Gufran Ali, 22, a postgraduate in ancient history from Kashi Vidyapeeth.
 
 Gufran runs a workshop at his home where six boys weave carpets in the evening after returning from college. “We have our college till 3pm, after that we come here and weave carpets till 9pm,” says intermediate student Mohammed Anis.
 
 Not all boys come to Gufran’s workshop daily. The system is flexible; boys can come when they do not have work at home or examinations. “I wish to pursue technical education in some technical institute. Since I put in extra hours to study for competitive examinations I do not come regularly. But I put in extra hours in weaving whenever possible,” says Raju.
 
 Carpet weaving is a dying art. “We do not get the pure wool now, instead what we get from companies is a mixed thread. Besides, the bright colours and dense motifs which we made earlier are no longer in demand. Company give us designs and we make them,” says village elderly Shamsher Ali.
 
 But Ali agrees that youngsters are doing a great service to the age-old tradition by not shunning it. Youngsters rue absence of a weavers’ organization that can fight for their cause. ‘It's essential so that we can push forward our demand. The government had promised us a weaver-mandi but we still do not have a place where we can sell our product,” says Pervez Alam.
 
 Weavers now do not buy their own material or weave traditional designs. Shops in   where they used to take their carpets initially for sale and export have mostly been closed down while remaining ones operate through middlemen.
 
 “Even if we weave on our own and go to market to sell our carpets, middlemen will not let shopkeepers buy from us. That would waste our money and effort,” says Gulsher Ali. 
 
 
