BENGALURU: A week after several trees on the   stretches in Marathahalli and KR Puram were allegedly poisoned by the advertisement mafia,   forest cell officials pulled down a couple of   on Friday.

 Appu Rao AG, deputy conservator of forests, said: “We have removed two hoardings — a jewellery advertisement in Marathahalli and telecom company ad in Mahadevapura. We will take strict action against the companies. They have not only chopped off the branches but also poisoned the trees. This is an act of cruelty.” The action was initiated during an inspection undertaken by the BBMP standing committee for horticulture. 
 
 Officials said since no advertisment tax had been paid for the hoardings, and hence they were illegal.
 
 On March 2, tree doctor and conservationist Vijay Nishanth alleged the trees had been poisoned to give more visibility to the hoardings. Following this, BBMP had issued notices to the owners of Archbishop House, Nile Enterprises and K Murthy, owner of a building along ORR. They were given three days to respond to the notices; an FIR was filed under the Karnataka Tree Preservation Act.
 
 N Shantakumar, assistant conservator of forests, North Bengaluru said, “They cannot get away by merely paying fines. They have to plant 1,000 trees in the vicinity, maintain them for three years and submit a monthly report. Only by doing this, will they realize the importance of trees and the effort that goes in nurturing them,” said N Shantakumar.
 
 “Seventeen trees were poisoned with acid and the branches of 13 were cut. The acid was poured on the roots,” said assistant conservator of forests, Mahadevapura zone, Thimmappa.
 
 
 
 
 Vijay Nishanth recalled he was shocked to witness the smoke emitting from the trees’ roots on March 2. “I immediately informed the BBMP forest cell and started treating the trees. We cleaned the affected area and applied liquid bandage. We were able to save three trees,” he added.
 
 Meenakshi, chairman of the BBMP standing committee for horticulture, said, “ A similar incident took place in Mahadevapura on Thursday night, when seven trees were chopped to give a better view to an ad hoarding in front of the police station. We have taken down the hoarding and FIR has been filed. The issue will be raised in the council meeting on Monday.” 
 
 - Sushmitha B
 
 
