NEW DELHI: A parliamentary committee has slammed the Union health ministry for delay in constructing a 100-bed   and plastic surgery   at   Trauma Center. Though work was awarded last May, there is no forward movement, said a report tabled recently in Parliament. 

 “The committee is apprehensive that if this is the pace of progress, the project may not be initiated even during the financial year 2017-18 unless the issue is taken up at a higher level,” the 30-member panel, headed by Rajya Sabha MP Ram Gopal Yadav, noted. The health ministry needs to firm up all pre- and post-project approvals to ensure that the project is started as soon as possible, it added. 
 
 While globally incidence of burns is going down, India has witnessed a rise in such cases due to lack of preventive measures, said experts. “We spend lakhs on putting latest tiles and decorative items at the house or office but often neglect fire safety needs,” said Dr P S Bhandari, head of burns unit at Lok Nayak Hospital. Electrical burns are also on the rise and mostly children are affected, he added.
 
 Delhi has five main burn treatment centres at Safdarjung, Lok Nayak, RML, Deen Dayal Upadhyay and Guru Tegh Bahadur hospitals. With 150 beds, the Safdarjung unit is the largest in the whole of Asia. However, the patient volume is so high that in case of a disaster, it will be difficult to get vacant beds, said hospital doctors.
 
 “We get patients from all over the country as there are few such centres in India and private hospitals charge a lot,” a doctor said. For a patient with over 50% burn injury, the treatment cost at a big private hospital may go up to Rs 30 lakh, he added.
 
 India has an estimated annual burn incidence of about 70 lakh, second only to road accidents. According to a research paper published in Indian Journal of Plastic Surgery, nearly 10% of all burn cases are life threatening and require hospitalisation. “Nearly 1 to 1.5 lakh people get crippled and require multiple surgeries and prolonged rehabilitation,” an expert said. 
 
 Most of the victims, experts added, are young. “Timely treatment can give them a new life,” said Dr Bhandari. 
 
 
