KOLKATA:   national president Amit Shah’s proposed Bengal visit in April-May is likely to be stretched, given the May 14 polls to seven municipalities, including the four Hill municipalities of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik. 

 State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who will be attending the party’s National Council meeting in New Delhi on April 14-15, is likely to pitch for an extended visit.
 
 Ghosh said: “The party’s national president was already scheduled to visit Bengal after the polls concluded in five states. We were informed that he would like to spend roughly three days with us. But now we would want him to spend at least a week with us. The party president’s visit will not only rev up the karyakartas but will add another dimension to our campaign in the forthcoming municipal and panchayat polls. We suspect that the panchayat polls in Bengal will be held ahead of schedule in November-December 2017.”
 
 Ghosh’s insistence isn’t without reason. The party’s electoral ally in the Hills, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, is on a politically sticky wicket. Pushed to the wall by an aggressive Trinamool Congress, which is keen to reap the dividends of crafting out a separate Hill district — Kalimpong — GJM faces a tough test to retain its Hill stronghold. 
 
 According to sources, GJM is all too likely to rake up its time-tested Gorkhaland card. But it wants BJP to echo the issue in Parliament to assuage its voters back home in Darjeeling and the foothills. 
 
 The more cornered GJM is, sources said, the more shrill its Gorkhaland pitch is going to be.
 
 For the state BJP, however, it has become a tightrope walk. As a national party, it cannot be seen as rooting for separatist voices. Moreover, the Centre is a key stakeholder in the tripartite Gorkhaland Territorial Agreement. 
 
  Ahead of the 2016 assembly polls, the Centre had authorized the   to take over management control of seven gardens of the G P Goenka-headed Duncan Industries in north Bengal by invoking a rarely used section of the Tea Act of 1953. The Centre, thus, attempted to send a message that it had acted while the state dithered. 
 
 A year on, this has led to nothing. Embroiled in a protracted legal battle, the   government has made it all too apparent by providing Rs 2-per-kilogram rice and mobile health units to these ailing tea gardens and its 17,000 employees. The state BJP feels this is now turning into a liability ahead of the civic polls.
 
 Dissidence in ranks is also hurting the party. A party leader recently graduated from critical social media posts against Ghosh to openly airing his grouse in the media. A senior party MP still chooses to work at cross-purposes with the party’s stated line on the child trafficking issue.
 
 
