The Thane jail could soon be adventure-seekers’ preferred destination to spend a night; Thane jail is one of the jails selected
Inspired by the Telangana model, police top brass asks prison heads for plan to turn part of jailhouses into hotels; cops say curiosity will make the concept work.
 
 If you thought Maharashtra’s jails are overcrowded, how wrong you were.
 
 Three jails in the state – Thane, Ratnagiri, and Sawantwadi – have been identified to host guests who may want to get a taste of life in the slammer and will be willing to pay for it.
 
 Using a   in Telangana as a model, IG, prisons,   has asked the heads of the three prisons asking them to send him plans to turn a part of their jailhouses into, well, hotels. Tentatively,   will cost you  .
 
 While Telangana’s jail experience involves spending a night at a former jail that has now been turned into a museum, what Sinha has in mind is closer to life.
 
 According to the police, the concept will work because people have seen jails only in movies and there is tremendous curiosity about life behind the bars.
 
 “Also, some of the jails we have selected will take people back into the history. There are jails in the city where freedom fighters were jailed or hanged,” said Superintendent of Police, Thane jail, Nitin Wainchal.
 
 This idea in Telangana was implemented in Sangareddy District Central Jail in Medak district, 70 km from Hyderabad. The jail was built by the Nizams in 1796.
 
 Sawantwadi, Ratnagiri and Thane prison SPs have been asked to send details of the space that can be allocated for the mock jail and how many prisoner-guests can experience the hospitality at any given point of time. “The city jails are overcrowded and that is why we are in favour of allowing guests to stay only for certain hours. If we get a bigger place, then we can implement it for 24 hours too,” said Wainchal.
 
 As per jail rules and manual, the guests will follow the same rules as any other inmate. Also cells and barracks like a high security cell will be specially constructed. The guests will also have to do all the manual stuff that other prisoners do. Food will be served in aluminum plates, a prison-made washing soap, and a mattress will be the other luxuries on the offer.
 
 IG, prisons, Rajvardhan Sinha said the idea is at a very preliminary stage. “We are working on it.”
 
 At the Sangareddy Jail guests are woken up at 5 am by two guards and are taken out into the courtyard. Tea is served at 6:30 am, followed by breakfast of idli-sambar at 7:30 am.
 
 Lunch comprising rice, dal and sambar is served between 10:30 am and 11 am, while dinner is curry, rice, and curd at 5 pm. During the day time, the guests are assigned tasks and they are locked back 6 pm.
 
