MUMBAI:  , a resident of Kapilavastu distri ct in Nepal, was performing her household chores on Friday when she received a phone call from her husband Tilakram's number. A   at the other end said briefly that Tilakram had been injured in a   and was being taken to  .

 A similar call went out to almost 50 people, from Tilakram's relatives to acquaintances at his native place and co-workers in Mumbai. Then the phone fell silent. The co-workers who rushed to the hospital were heartbroken to find that Tilakram was not among the injured, but on the list of 23 deceased.After Bindravati arrived in the city, Tilakram's body was the last of the 23 Elphinstone foot over-bridge stampede victims to leave the KEM mortuary on Monday evening.
 
 Tilakram's friends and family members are grateful to the stranger for the crucial phone call but are intrigued about what happened to the phone. “Our guess is the SIM card was discarded. Tilakram had a Samsung phone. Police said they have not found any mobile phone. The stranger was humane enough to inform us, so we didn't bother to complain,“ said Dilip, who knew Tilakram for three years. Nepali citizen Tilakram had made Mumbai his home for almost two de cades. Dilip said Tilakram was a daily wage earner who supported his family by working in the vegetable market at Dadar Plaza. “On Friday , he decided to head to the Dadar flower market hoping to make some extra money since it was Dassera. He had been doing that for several years,“ said Om Prakash Teli, Tilakram's brother-in-law.
 
 Bindravati arrived in the city at 1.30am on Monday , after a tumultuous 48 hours on train. She was inconsolable, and said she had almost brushed aside the phone call as a prank till a few more people in her neighbourhood in Nepal were contacted. “I left home thinking he was injured and would recover soon. But that was not to be. My children (pic, right) and I are staring at an uncerta in future. How will I send them to school?“ she said, fighting tears.
 
 The couple has four children between three and 12 years who are attending school in Nepal. She has received a railway compensation of Rs 5 lakh. They are now expecting another Rs 5 lakh from the state government.
 
