NEW DELHI: The Haryana police on Saturday afternoon arrested the man, who allegedly stabbed 17-year-old   on a local train near Ballabhgarh a few days before Eid, in  .

 The accused, Naresh (28), a daily wager, used to travel to Delhi in search of work. Police said he had been hiding in the Sakri locality in Dhule district, 156km from Nashik, for the past two weeks. “The Haryana police had strong information about the accused living at his relative’s house in Sakri. They came, picked up the accused and took him with them,” said M Ram Kumar, Dhule SP.
 
 Junaid’s murder on June 22 had triggered a nationwide outrage. Police claim Naresh has confessed to killing the teenager. “We are yet to recover the murder weapon. The accused was produced in a court in Dhule and is being brought to Faridabad for further interrogation,” said S P (Haryana GRP) Kamaldeep Goel.
 
 The accused told police that he was a resident of Faridabad. He used to work as a security guard but lost the job after some time. He was looking for work and would come to Delhi on a daily basis. He was a regular commuter of the local train on which he had an argument with Junaid and his brothers, Haseem and Shaqir. 
 
 However, Haseem told police even after the matter was resolved, Naresh and three others followed them to the next compartment and heaped communal slurs on them. 
 
 Junaid and his brothers as well as the accused boarded the train at Ballabgarh station. It was Haseem who identified Naresh and helped cops prepare his sketch. One of the three youths was identified as a factory worker in Asaoti. He had heard Haseem mention Asaoti while speaking over phone and had called his friends to the station to assist him. He took advantage of the commotion when Junaid was being taken out of the train by his brothers and fled on a bike.
 
 CCTV footage recovered from Asaoti showed Naresh sitting pillion with two others on a motorcycle. Cops are scanning the records of the local transport authority and showrooms. About 1,000 bikes are on police radar. Efforts are on to track the three youths.
 
 Meanwhile, the four accused arrested earlier in connection with the murder, were remanded in a two-day police custody. Police may take a ride on the fifth coach of train number 64904—from Okhla to Asaoti—to reconstruct the sequence of events. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
