PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar paid tribute to Hazrat Imam Hussain and Shaheedan-e-karbala (72 followers) for their sacrifices on the occasion of ‘Yaum-e-Ashura’ (10th day of  ) on Sunday.

 “Hazrat Imam Hussain and his 72 faithful followers made sacrifice in ‘Maidan-e-Karbala’ to protect their rights and fighting injustice, atrocity and narcissism,” the CM said and added that people should take inspiration and always be ready to make bigger sacrifices for truth, benevolence and humanity. He appealed to the people of the state to observe Muharram with peace, amity, harmony and brotherhood.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the Shia community took part in ‘zanjeeri juloos’ from Bawli Imambara to Shah Zafar ki Takiya on Sunday, the tenth day of Muharram, which marks the first month of the Islamic New Year.
 
 A large number of people from the Shia community took part in the procession with a few flagellating themselves, symbolizing that they would be ready to sacrifice themselves for Hazrat Imam Hussain, the son of Hazrat Ali and grandson of Prophet Muhammad.
 
 “The ‘matamai juloos’ was carried out on the 8th of Muharram from Chamdoria Imambara to Naujar Takiya. Whereas on the ninth day of Muharram, Duldul (a white horse representing the one that Hazrat Imam Hussain rode in the battleground) was taken out from Gujri in Paschim Darwaza to Nawab Bahadur Road,” said Syed Shah Jauhar Imam Jauni, secretary of Chamdoria Imambara. 
 
 All the major Shia organizations came together to organize different functions for Muharram.
 
 “We received huge support from our Hindu brethren who offered us water and juice during the procession,” he said. 
 
 The Sunni community also observed Muharram. Sajjada-Nasheen and undertaker of the Dargaah at Karbala, Syed Shah Anzar Hussain said processions would be taken out on Monday as well. People from all religions attend the processions that end at the Karbala Dargaah. He said nearly two lakh people are estimated to attend this year’s processions from all over Bihar.
 
 
