PUNE: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has deputed   to manage   in front of the  

 With passengers taking their own sweet time to disembark from vehicles near the departure gate following the abolition of payment of Rs 85 for a seven-minute wait on the stretch, airport sources said that two AAI traffic marshals will coordinate with the city traffic police for streamlining the flow of incoming vehicles so that the stretch remains free from congestion.
 
 “The payment had been abolished in October last year owing to demands from the people. Now, with people facing problems due to piling up of vehicles, AAI is planning a new policy regarding the same, which will be announced in due time,” Pune airport director Ajay Kumar said.
 
 Sources said that the two men will see and analyse the problems, besides managing traffic.
 
 “With the regulation abolished, it has been seen vehicles coming to drop passengers are taking a lot of time. The airport witnesses a lot of flight movements early morning and day time and again in the late afternoon hours. With passengers taking a lot of time to move towards the departure gate after collecting their luggage from vehicles, the whole place gets crammed with more cars entering the premises,” another official pointed out.
 
 “The men have been asked to properly coordinate with the traffic police and ensure that the vehicles move quickly towards the exit gate and are not parked inside the premises under any circumstances. There needs to be a constant movement of vehicles and they cannot wait outside the departure area for long. The men have been asked to move around and ensure that the vehicles keep moving. The passengers are also being asked to get their luggage out of the vehicles swiftly,” he added.
 
 The official added that many were not utilising the space provided for vehicles.
 
 “A special lane has been created for smaller vehicles. A board too has been put up for the purpose. However, we find that very few vehicles use that lane due to some unknown reasons. They come right in front of the departure gate and stop their vehicles. And with every vehicle doing the same, it leads to chaos most of the time,” the official pointed out.
 
 Rajeev Yadav, who is a regular flier, said that the new policy on the same should come without delay.
 
 “It becomes absolutely chaotic, particularly during late evening hours. The whole stretch gets completely packed and people cannot move to the other side. Also, there is a lot of honking and the place looks like a  . In my view, the payment system should be re-initiated but the amount can always be reduced. The road stretch can be widened in parts too,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 
