GUWAHATI: President  , in his address to both houses of Parliament on Tuesday, described the northeast as the 'ashtalakshmi' (eight sources of wealth from prosperity, good health, knowledge, strength, progeny, and power) for the country and asserted the government's commitment to reducing isolation of the region. 

 "Balanced and   of all regions is vital to India's progress. Under its proactive Act East policy, my government is focussing on reducing the isolation of the eastern region and the northeast by improving connectivity through road, rail, air, telecom, power and waterways," the President stated.
 
 He added, "My government sees the NE states as the ashtalakshmi that can take India to new heights. The northeast is the gateway to  . We are opening up road and rail routes to our neighbouring countries to boost economic development of the region."
 
 "By the end of the year, all meter gauge tracks in NE states will be converted to broad gauge. The Railways have undertaken major expansion in the region at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore. Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have been put on the rail map and Agartala has been connected with the broad gauge line," he said.
 
 The President added that the tourism ministry has identified a thematic circuit for the NE region. "The beauty and diversity of the northeast makes it a natural hub for tourism," he said.
 
 Putting at rest apprehensions that the Centre may discontinue the special category states, the President promised to ensure unhindered support and development of NE states, the centre continuing with the special dispensation in the assistance pattern to the northeastern states and providing assistance in the ratio of 90:10 for core central schemes and 80:20 for non-core schemes to these states.
 
 He said then   and Polymer Limited and Numaligarh Refinery Limited's wax unit will create huge employment opportunities in the region. "The government has approved North East BPO promotion scheme in the   programme for creation of employment opportunities," he added.
 
 Referring to the law and order situation in the region, the President said, "The security situation in the NE states has also shown significant improvement." 
 
