KOCHI: While members of the special investigation team were camping in Coimbatore and other parts of Kerala to nab   and Vigeesh, the interrogation of the accused revealed how they managed to evade capture and find safe locations elsewhere.   and Vigeesh chose Vagamon and Kolencherry, besides Coimbatore, to keep the police at bay, said sources.

 While sources said that Sunil and Vigeesh had spent the night before their arrest atop a building that was being constructed near Kolencherry, the investigation team took them to Vagamon on Monday after they admitted that they had fled to  . The team also took him to Kanjar to collect evidence.
 
 According to their statement, Sunil and Vigeesh reached Vagamon on February 21.Vigeesh bought food from a ho tel, said police. The hotel staffer identified the accused and told the police that they had visited the spot earlier as well. Police sad that the accused used a deserted area to evade the police net and save money.“They had spent the night atop a rock in an isolated area,“ said a police officer from Idukki.
 
 Tripunithura CI P S Shiju led the police team in Idukki.Later, the accused were taken back to Aluva police club on Monday evening.
 
 On Monday, the Aluva judicial magistrate court remanded the four accomplices of Pulsar Suni in police custody. The prosecutor had requested the court to grant police custody as they have to investigate whether the accused had shared the video of the crime with other persons. The prosecution also pointed out the need to take the accused to their hideouts for evidence collection as three of them had gone underground for a few days.
 
 Meanwhile, the four accused told the magistrate that they were innocent and Sunil had trapped them in this case.Police maintained that their statements need to be crosschecked by questioning them simultaneously. The accused who were sent to police custody are Martin, Pradeep, Vadival Salim and Manikandan.
 
 Panangad SI Dileep Kumar ­who arrested Suni's Coimbatore accomplice Charlie ­ said that the person had not seen any videos on Suni's phone. Charlie was taken into custody by Kumar while he was being interviewed by a Malayalam TV channel here.The accused, who arrived in   (purportedly) to surrender, was nabbed by the police after they received information about the interview.
 
