CHENNAI: Carnatic concerts by the beach, gaana in the sabha, choir music at the railway station —the   has changed the dynamics of music festivals in the city. Conceived with the idea of breaking away from the December season, the festival — which reached its third edition this year — is shaping into an initiative which is not just a parallel festival but one that uses art as a vehicle of social change.

 So whether it is to teach classical percussion instruments like ghatam and kanjira to children from the fishing hamlets, or organising a paraiattam performance on a stage that has not hosted anything other than a tillana, the festival breaks restrictive artistic walls, letting creativity flow into a space which does away with labels like art, folk and classical. "The idea was to bring all art forms to one stage," says Sangeetha Sivakumar, musician and wife of Carnatic vocalist  . Sangeetha has been a part of Krishna’s journey of discovering a more democratic space for the arts. And the vizha, spanning over a month, in its most expansive form this year has been a striking example of this inclusivity.
 
 In 28 years of his musical career Marana Gaana Viji performed at a sabha for the first time last weekend. The audience at Raga Sudha Hall was also witness to Silambattam, Paraiattam and devotional music by Jogappas — a group of transgenders. "I have grown up singing on streets. Though I became famous through my film, this experience of having rasikas come up to me and saying they want to hear my songs as part of Margazhi festival was unparalleled," says Marana Gaana Viji who shot to fame with ‘Danga Maari’. "At least this is a start where I can think of performing in a sabha again."
 
 The performance of the Jogappas and Marana Gaana Viji is a cultural statement, agrees Sangeetha. "We, the organisers of the vizha believe that there are problems in society and art is not isolated from society. It makes us look at art in a different way altogether," says Sangeetha who has also been part of a three-month percussion workshop to teach kanjira, ghattam and parai to the girls at the Avvai Home. The girls will be performing at the vizha on February 10. 
 
 Sangeetha feels it’s important to involve children for a long-term resonance of art in the community and wants to plan for a more sustainable programme for them. "Though it started as an experiment, it’s not just a feel good initiative. The vizha has a direction, which is apparent from its growth from the classical concerts that were held on the beach in the first year to this year’s extensive schedule of performances at public spaces."
 
 For the fisherfolk, the vizha is not just about the music. It is what has made them visible to the rest of the city. "It’s unfortunate but the fishing village is more than 200 years old with a history of its own which is not valued," says R Sundaramurthy, general secretary of the Urur Olcott Kuppam Ellaiamman Koil joint committee. He adds that some of the stories of the fisherfolk will be told as part of the living museum concept on February 10 and 11. "Earlier there was no chance of meeting people beyond the village. After the vizha, many of us are now recognised and acknowledged in Besant Nagar. But, most importantly the festival has become a focal point for us to ask for services like garbage clearance, drainage lines and ration cards," he says.
 
 The authorities of Raga Sudha Hall had no reservation about hosting a folk fest. Maybe nobody had dared to think that the citadel of Carnatic music in Mylapore would open to other forms of art and this festival allows for these unconventional choices. Creatively, the vizha has moved on from being a rebellion of an artist to being a space full of possibilities — a meeting point for the arts and recognition for a people.
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
