The season of annual college magazines is back. Packaged with pictures, poems, articles and achievements, students’ favourite mag is not only a sweet memoir of the entire academic session, but is also a great platform for   with literary leanings. But this year, to suit the tech-savvy generation, quite a few college magazines are undergoing complete makeover and will soon appear in   avatars. Here’s the lowdown on these e-mags on campus…

 
  
 College magazines have now turned into cool mobile applications. Lata Mangeshkar Medical College recently launched digital form of their annual college   called Swank. Elaborating on why the magazine has taken an e-route this time, one of the faculty members Dr Mohana Majumdar says, “Besides being convenient, the mobile app is eco-friendly and economical as printing hard copies is costlier. Also, every year’s magazine will now be archived in digital form. We shall also send notifications of upcoming college events to our students through this app 
 from now on.” 
 
 
 Raisoni College has bid adieu to traditional magazines and is all set to launch a mobile app of its yearly magazine. One of the students involved in the process, Aditya Sarda, shares, “The idea behind launching the app is because it is handy and we can access it wherever we are. Students can log in from their accounts and browse through colourful pictures, articles and switch to any page with merely a click. This digital format is simple and easy to understand. The theme of this year’s e-magazine is ‘Around the world’. And this digital version will also have all the details of the events that happened in the academic year 2016-2017.”
 
 
  
 Laxminarayan Institute of Technology will launch a website of its annual mag in April. Director of the institute Dr   says, “It is time to walk hand in hand with the latest technology. Our magazine’s website will have all the technical and literary articles written by our students. In addition to this, we will put up selected painting, sketches and photographs there.” Rooting for the virtual mag, Principal of Mohta Science Dr   adds, “We want our students living in various parts of the world to be aware of their alma mater’s progress. To keep that special connect alive, we will be incorporating a separate folder of annual e-magazine in our college’s official website next month. Former and current students can download that for free and also access their pictures from the photo-gallery section.” 
 
 
