NAGPUR:   resembled more of a right-handed   when he led   four years ago. While the   great was a grafter, Sharma loves to get on with the game right from outset. He always had disagreement with his U-19 coach   about his batting technique. However, after some time Powar started trusting his ward’s abilities and left him alone.

 While Sharma got success with his unorthodox technique at Under-19 and Under-22 level, he has now changed his stance completely. The 23-year-old has become more orthodox this season and it’s working well for him. He had a decent   season where he played some useful knocks in crunch situations. Sharma did well in the Zonal Twenty20 League in Jaipur and carried his good form in Vijay Hazare One-day tournament. Vidarbha topped the Group ‘A’ in Delhi and Sharma played a key role in it.
 
 The Vidarbha lad is currently at No.3 position in the top-scoring wicketkeepers’ list in the country. Only Dinesh Karthik and Parthiv Patel have scored more runs than Sharma. The 23-year-old has scored 291 runs at an impressive average of 48.50 with the help of three fifties. He has not only provided solidity to Vidarbha batting at the top but also ensured a flying start. It’s his second successful One-day season in-a-row. He had scored 245 runs at 61.50 in last season. This year his strike rate has also improved because of change in stance.
 
 The change in Sharma’s stance started when former Indian opener Wasim Jaffer joined the Vidarbha fold in 2015-16. Jaffer advised him to work on his technique to sustain at the top level. “Jitesh is someone who always wants to improve. He would be always open to suggestions. He would ask various questions regarding match situation, technique and other aspects. He was confident about his technique but I felt it would have been better had his stance become more side on,” Jaffer told TOI.
 
 The Mumbaikar told Sharma not to tinker with his technique during the season. Jaffer’s advice worked well for Sharma as he started working on his technique after the 2015-16 season finished. “Jitesh was very still at the crease at point of contact between bat and ball. However, he had to come to that orthodox position from his original unorthodox stance. While it was something new to bowlers, he wasn’t gaining anything big out of it. He had to take that extra effort to hit shots. While with side on position, he just had to get on with the game without much effort. I am happy that he took that advice seriously, worked on it and now doing well for Vidarbha,” the 38-year-old pro said.
 
 Powar said these changes will help Sharma in future. “When I was his coach, I had a lot of disagreement with him regarding his technique but every time he proved me wrong. He always said 'Sir, I understand you have a problem with my technique but don’t worry, I will score runs’. He is very confident of his abilities. Jitesh has shown that he is willing to do that extra effort to improve his game. Normally, players don’t change their technique at First Class level. It’s working for him is another positive,” Powar said.
 
 
