PUNE: The district consumer court has ordered   to pay Rs 10.5 lakh with 9% p.a. interest since January 2012 and Rs 15,000 compensation to a woman and her minor son for wrongfully rejecting a claim against the death of her husband.

 The interest component, so far, works out to over Rs 6.30 lakh and will continue to grow till the company executes the order.
 
 Chinchwad resident   had secured a housing loan of Rs 10.50 lakh from the   branch on Ghole road. He got the repayment of this loan covered under the `Tata AIG life group single premium mortgage reducing term   policy’ by paying a one-time premium of Rs 57,246 for a cover of the total loan amount in 2008. The insurance company issued the policy on November 21, 2008 giving cover against life or total and permanent disability. 
 
 Joshi died at a private hospital in Kolhapur on April 16, 2011 and the cause of death was certified by medical authorities as “sudden massive pulmonary embolism with cardio genetic shock.”
 
 When his widow, Sandhya, and minor son, Abhishek, moved a death claim, the insurance company rejected the same on January 19, 2012, arguing that prior to securing the insurance policy, Joshi had undergone treatment in a hospital in 2007 for deep vein thrombosis and inguinal lymphadenitis. Suggesting, he suppressed this fact as well as the pre-existing disease.
 
 Later, the Insurance Ombudsman too did not take any cognizance of Sandhya’s plea against repudiation of the claim. The claimants then moved a consumer complaint, alleging deficiency in service on the part of the insurance company for wrongful repudiation of the claim.
 
 The bench of V P Utpat and Onkar G Patil observed on December 27, 2016, “The insurance company has not produced on record any expert opinion to show that there is a nexus of disease of deep vein thrombosis for which the insured (Joshi) took treatment in 2007 and the disease which has been shown as cause of death.” It noted that the death certificate and the physician’s statement revealed the cause of death as `sudden massive pulmonary embolism with cardio genetic shock’.
 
 The bench observed, “The burden of proof lay on the insurance company to show that the claimants were in breach of policy conditions. The insurance company has failed miserably to show any nexus between the previous disease and the disease at the time of death of the insured. As such, it wrongly repudiated the death claim, causing deficiency in service.”
 
 BOX: ‘Example of Negative & high-handed approach’
 
 The consumer court described the case as an example of typical negative and high-handed approach on the part of the insurance company officers, which results in increased litigation. “Nowadays, insurance companies are trying to convert themselves into profit making organizations. To make these profits companies are resorting to unfair trade practices like duping and harassing poor consumers. This attitude exhibited by insurance companies needs to be curbed and dealt with an iron first,” the bench of V P Utpat and Onkar G Patil said. 
 
 
