MUMBAI: With   & Co continuing their winning streak at home by beating Bangladesh in the one-off Test at Hyderabad, it's expected that the selectors are unlikely to make too many changes to the team when they pick the Test side for possibly the first two games of the four-Test series against   here on Tuesday .

 The Aussies landed in India on Monday evening, and will play a three-day warm-up tie against India `A' from February 16 at the Brabourne Stadium in Cricket Club of India (CCI). The first Test begins from February 23 at Pune.
 
 The only point of interest is if ace fast bowler  , who has been out due to a knee injury since he played the third Test against England at Mohali in November last year, will be included in the side.
 
 Though he trained with the Indian team before the opening T20 International against England at Kanpur, it isn't clear if the 26-year-old, who has been undergoing rehabilitation from injury at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bangalore, is fully fit yet.
 
 As per a policy laid down by coach Anil Kumble, any player coming back from injury is required to play a first-class game, but it remains to be seen if an exception will made in Shami's case. The pacer, who's taken 76 wickets in 22 Tests @32.60, adds teeth to the Indian bowling attack, and his presence can make the difference against a strong side like Australia.
 
 To add to the dilemma, the only domestic cricket on-show has been the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy, in which Shami hasn't played a single game. In any case, it is difficult to assess the fitness of a bowler in that format, where one has to bowl only four overs. On his part, Shami has shown how keen he's to play against the Aussies by focusing on his recovery at Bangalore despite his father's death.
 
 Apart from Shami, leggie Amit Mishra's fitness -the 34-year-old missed out on the Hyderabad Test after suffering a knee injury -is under the scanner too. Mishra is likely take some more time to recover from his injury , which means that he may not be part of the squad. It will provide Kuldeep Yadav an opportunity to continue as the fourth spinner in the side after Ravichandran Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja and Jayant Yadav.
 
 With even Karun Nair being dropped from the XI at Hyderabad despite his triple hundred, there's no scope for another batsman in the side.Having smashed a hundred against Bangladesh, Wriddhiman Saha has ensured that he would again be named as the sole 'keeper in the squad, keeping Parthiv Patel at bay. If at all the selectors pick a new face, it will only be after the first two Tests.
 
 
