KOCHI:  , a 23-year-old woman who left her home in Kasaragod to convert to Islam, said that she plans to return to being a Hindu as she realized that she had been misled by people. The resident of Uduma had left home on July 10, leaving a 15-page letter explaining her desire to convert and study Islam. She had left home saying that she was going to a hospital.The family later found the letter from among her belongings. Meanwhile, she called her maternal uncle and said that she was going away to find peace.

 Athira later surrendered before police at Kannur on July 27 and was sent to awomen's home. After her parents approached the high court, the court advised her to go with her parents. She went home after her parents promised that they would allow her to continue Islamic religious studies.
 
 In an interview to a   channel, she had refuted the allegations that she had gone to join  . “I have not even taken my passport. I am a bit concerned about people linking me with IS. I love my parents, I have no problem living with them if they allow me to study Islam,“ Athira had said.
 
 Speaking to media in Kochi on Thursday , Athira said that she got influenced by her class mates, most of whom were Muslims. “They spoke about how Islam was scientific and logical when compared to Hinduism which encouraged idol worship. Hinduism has so many gods whereas Islam has only one. This set me thinking as I had no answer to their arguments,“ said Athira.
 
 She said that she was impressed by what her friends told about the Quran. They gave me lot of literature on Islam. I also heard speeches, including that of  .
 
 Some of the books that I read mentioned about life in hell. Any ordinary person will get scared reading about the hell that one would experience if one didn't follow Islam, she said.
 
 “When I decided to leave home, my friend Aneesa was with me. Then there were others like Siraj of Popular Front of India and some SDPI members to support me,“ she said.
 
 “Now, after staying with my parents and also attending classes in Arsha Vidya Samajam, I have realized that ignorance of one's own religion is leading us to go after others,“ she said.
 
 It was the PFI and SDPI activists who advised me to surrender before the police and also give the TV interview before going back to my parents, said Athira. She said that no parents should suffer the way her parents did and there should not be another Athira again.
 
