KOLHAPUR: Several   across the state will launch protests against the state government and the civic bodies from Thursday. The traders in Sangli are going to shut their shops on Thursday and will go on an  .

 The traders’ are protesting against the civic bodies for not withdrawing their decision to recover   (LBT) dues by February 14.
 
 While abolishing the LBT in August 2015, the state government had directed the civic bodies to assess the LBT paid during the implementation period of 2011-15 and recover the difference from the traders. Consequently, the civic bodies began their assessment with the help of a panel of chartered accountants. But the traders have alleged harassment by the panel.
 
  of the  , said, “Traders from Kolhapur, Solapur, Thane, Sangli, Mumbai and Parbhani have complained of harassment by the civic body officials. Traders in Sangli have already boycotted the assessment work.”
 
 Sameer Shah of the Vyapari Ekata Association in Sangli said, “The civic officials are also harassing the traders who have paid their dues after the state government issued notifications for assessment. Earlier, only 10% of the traders were included in the assessment work. But, according to the new notification, the civic bodies have been told to assess all the traders. We demand the civic bodies to stop their LBT assessment work immediately.”
 
 “The traders in Parbhani said that after they went on a strike, the government asked the local bodies to stop their assessment work at Parbhani. Even after receiving instruction from the government, no initiative has been taken from the civic bodies end,” Shah said.
 
 The state head of traders’ association, Mohan Gurnani, will be leading the protest in Sangli. The Kolhapur Vyapari Association has also extended their support for the cause.
 
 Ajit Kothari of the Vyapari Mitra Association, Kolhapur said, “We met the municipal commissioner of Kolhapur a couple of weeks ago and have conveyed our opposition to the assessment work. The officials have promised to take up the matter with the state government. We are hopeful that the meeting with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, after February 23 will prove to be fruitful.”
 
