BENGALURU: A recent move by the   and   exploring a partnership with a tobacco major to build   has sparked a controversy, with   terming it a case of conflict of interest.

 In an   dated April 18, 2017, Shalini Rajneesh, principal secretary, health and family welfare department, wrote to Anil Rajput, senior vice president, corporate affairs, ITC Limited, explaining the Karnataka's government's plan to build five super specialty hospitals and the opportunity for private companies to partner the government in this. A copy of the communication, available with TOI says, “As discussed, we are planning to set up five super specialty hospitals in five districts of Karnataka. We plan to build the hospital and invite PPP partners to come with doctors and equipment to run the hospital.The government will pay for the patients as per package costs pre-decided with a group of doctors both from the government and private sector... May I request you to put up this proposal before the ITC board, as early as possible?“ Public health activists have termed the move a clear case of conflict of interest. “Article 5.3 of the World Health Organization's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC (UN Treaty fully signed and ratified by India) discourages any partnerships or interactions of government officials (involved in tobacco-related issues) and the tobacco industry, unless strictly for regulatory purposes,“ said an activist, on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Anti-corruption activist Ravi Krishna Reddy said, “Such partnerships allow the tobacco industry to make inroads into the health sector and influence government decisions. The Karnataka government itself, recognizing WHO gui delines, issued a circular in the past that government and elected officers shall not participate in tobacco industry related events.The recent move by the Karnataka health department to partner a tobacco firm now is a breach of public trust and a case of conflict of interest ­ as the tobacco firm gains close access to decision making authorities dealing with tobacco control.“
 
 Supreme Court advocate KV Dhananjay said that smoking alone kills over 10 lakh people a year in India. “There cannot be a more shameful act on the part of the Karnataka government. It is beyond my comprehension how the state government could ask a tobacco firm to build hospitals in partnership with the government to treat people stricken with cancer. Also, the enforcement of various tobacco control measures would be defeated if the very tobacco companies that should be strictly regulated also become financial partners with the government. There are other problematic aspects to such communications partnerships. The state government is mandated to do things to reduce tobacco use in society. In fact, the principal secretary herself is the chair of the state anti-tobacco cell.“
 
 Health activists also point out that CSR by the tobacco industry is another problematic aspect. “WHO clearly denounces CSR by the tobacco industry. How can any activities be termed `socially responsible' when the core operations of the industry are against the social outcome ­ production of lethal products known to kill lakhs of Indians every year,“ said an activist.
 
 
 
 
 Asked about the controversial move, Shalini Rajneesh said no final decision had been taken at the government level to partner with ITC to build government hospitals. “Following a cabinet decision to build five super speciality hospitals in five districts, we are exploring various financial models to implement the project, and PPP is one of them,” she said.
 
 When asked about the e-mail communication with ITC and allegations of conflict of interest, Shalini said, “I did share details of the project concept and financial model we are looking at, following a request by the company officials. The company is into other sectors as well, apart from tobacco products. Even if we partner with them, it doesn’t mean that we will allow them to violate any tobacco control norms. As for the WHO FCTC norms, I will go through them before taking any further decision,” she added.
 
 
 
 
 Responding to a query from TOI, a spokesperson for ITC said, “ITC is a multi-business multi-dimensional corporation with a diversified portfolio of businesses spanning FMCG, paperboards and packaging, hotels, agri business and information technology. Today, more than 58% of ITC's net segment revenue comes from the non-cigarette businesses which account for 77% of the operating capital employed and 80% of the aggregate capex over the last 5 years. Tobacco is one of the businesses of ITC and there is no provision whatsoever in the laws of the land that constrain the Company from engaging in partnerships with the Government.”
 
 “We are in the process of drawing up our plans for the foray into the healthcare sector and it is too premature to comment on any details at the moment as the Object Clause of the Memorandum of Association has recently been amended to include healthcare. Any conclusion in this area would be speculative and misleading,” the spokesperson added.
 
 
