THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sixty years after its inception, the   that have been synonymous with typical government offices that are grim and stacked with heaps of files, are all set to shed their traditional image. All 84 employment offices in the state are gearing up for a digital makeover.

 The labour and skills department has fully digitised the database of 35 lakh citizens who have registered their names with the employment exchanges. It will enable the users to avail all services offered through mobile application.
 
 The facilities include registration, renewal of registration, viewing vacancies in each government department and accessing list of applicants prepared and shortlisted by the employment exchanges.
 
 “This is the culmination of a six-year long effort in digitising the full data of those who have registered with us. The concept will not only facilitate the users who have registered with the exchanges but will also ensure utmost transparency as the list of names of those who are shortlisted for   are accessible to all. Also, this would save a great deal of time for individual departments which otherwise have to wait for long to get their list prepared manually,” said labour commissioner and employment director K Biju.
 
 The software that forms the base of the new concept was designed and executed by the National Informatics Centre. 
 
 When a parent department seeks the recruitment of applicants from those who have registered with the employment exchanges on the basis of their requirement and qualification, the current practice is to search the whole data manually and prepare the list that should also consider the reservation for each caste, sub-caste and religion. This is not only a time-consuming process, but also susceptible to errors, and in many cases the issues are taken to court.
 
 With the new system, the departments concerned have to upload their requirements in the prescribed format, for which the software would prepare the list based on the centralised repository of data of those who have registered.
 
 The users will also get alerts in the form of short messaging services (SMS) about job vacancies, registration details and renewal of their registration.
 
 Another feature is that the data will not only be used for government job vacancies, but also for private firms that are willing to seek the help of employment exchanges to fill their vacancies. The fully-digital employment exchanges with the address www.employment.kerala.gov.in will be open for public from next month.
 
