 has given the rise to a number of things, one of which includes the overtly mushy messages that couples send to each other. While sometimes both sides are equally enthusiastic about sharing their feelings (about each other) with the virtual world, sometimes those loving expressions are one-sided. And this, say experts, is increasingly causing strain between couples. Discussing social media   with your partner has now become crucial and this isn’t just limited to loving public messages — it also includes communicating with members of the opposite sex online, putting up controversial posts or simply getting into arguments with people over certain posts.

 
 
 Consultant psychiatrist Dr   says it is extremely important to discuss social media boundaries with your partner. “Willingly or unwillingly, social media has become a very important part of our lives. Every other person now owns a smartphone, which comes with preloaded social media apps. Today’s generation spends a considerable amount of time on social media, which takes away a lot from their personal space. It is imperative to discuss social media boundaries with your partner, set realistic expectations and limits for its usage.”
 Clinical psychologist Seema Hingorrany agrees. “Discussing these boundaries with your partner brings transparency in a relationship. As it is, with long commuting hours and highly competitive jobs, couples hardly get time to spend with each other. Social media boundaries help in strengthening a healthy bond and love between couples. Secondly, there are people who are very guarded about their personal lives and may not want the world to know what’s happening in their social lives or otherwise. The partner might be open and probably love to update everything about their lives. Discussions in such cases help avoid conflicts, confusions and misunderstandings.”
 
 
 
 Social media can often become a priority for either partner, instead of spending time with their significant other. Says Dr Sonar, “Social media can also generate feelings of jealousy, hatred, rivalry and insecurity because of a distorted perception of a partner’s social media behaviour. Often, people tend to get more pleasure from sharing their pictures and posts, rather than enjoying quiet moments with their partner.”
 Social media can seriously affect a relationship if not used judiciously because an increasing number of couples are bringing social media activities in the bedroom, which hardly leaves any time to have meaningful conversations that should be a part of a normal relationship. “While having dinner with their partner, one often tends to check how many likes and comments their new profile picture has garnered. Trivial things like why my partner didn’t like my picture or an ex commenting on a picture update has also created misunderstandings between couples,” says Seema.
 
 
 
 While a study has said that social media has caused an increase in divorce rates, we asked experts if this was true in India as well. Dr Sonar says that it is. “This is becoming a reality even in India, which is the largest market of social media companies. I see many couples on the verge of separation or even divorce because of the ill-effects of social media. Some people avoid their duties towards the partner and family, while some may develop extra marital relationships because of social media. Some couples develop jealousy or suspicion because of one partner using social media secretly. Some people are even addicted to sexting on social media.”
 Adds Seema, “I’ve come across several cases where couples want a divorce due to social media activities. Most couples have one partner suffering from serious social media networking addiction. Not only are they emotionally absent in the relationship, but physical intimacy also takes a backseat. Therapy tries to get the marriage back together. Many complain that they seek out other relationships because their partner is too busy on their phone. We can conclude that, yes divorce rates are high due to lack of healthy social media 
 boundaries.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
