Indore: India’s structure of governing public sector unit banks needs to be changed and more funds should be infused into banks for better operations, said a leading banker on Saturday. Deepak Parekh, chairman, HDFC Bank said, “Our governance structure of PSU banks need to be changed and banks need more capital. Government must act as a player and umpire to revive the economy. India still standouts as preferred investment shore.” Parekh was speaking on the concluding day of the International Management Conclave here in Indore. “All banks have gone through tough days over non-performing loans and restructured loans form a double digit in banks’ balance sheets. We have to try and solve the issues of non-performing loans,” Parekh said. Referring to demonetization, Parekh said that it was a part of the planned scheme to make India a more tax compliant society and with time, things are being restored back to normal. The banker said that post demonetisation, direct and indirect taxes have gone up by 12 per cent and 22 per cent respectively. “Public spending, private consumption, private sector investment and exports are four engines of growth in India,” said Parekh. Addressing a packed auditorium of students and businessmen, the leading banker said that India is a consumption driven economy. The IMA Lifetime Outstanding Achievement Award for the year 2017 was awarded to AM Naik, group executive chairman, Larsen & Tourbo. Naik said, “There are limitless possibilities for India and you can achieve anything through devotion, passion, conviction and dedication.” The group executive chairman of L&T said, “Indian industries need to be restructured and firms should be given the freedom to do what they want to do.” The leading businessman addressed questions from the audience on his professional journey and his views on the country’s economy. Naik shared five success mantras with management students and entrepreneurs. He said “Be fearless, an insurmountable amount of problems can be solved then. Education is simple but intelligent application of that education is what counts. Always works as a team. Think about heavy industries as a career move and not just service, financial and IT sector.”