PUNE: Preparations for the forthcoming   are in full swing. 

 The civic body has prepared a panel-wise voters’ list, which has been uploaded on PMC’s website and has also been kept at ward offices for citizens to register their suggestions and observations. The preliminary list has 24.80 lakh voters from the city.
 
 It is for the first time that the civic body will have four members in a single panel, which simply means that the voters will be able to cast votes to elect four corporators. The total number of panels is 41 which will account for 162 corporators. Only one panel will have two corporators while the remaining will have four corporators each. While carving new panels, the PMC’s election department has kept the population of every panel between 70,000 to 84,000. It will now be interesting to see how voters will elect the four candidates from each panel.
 
 The election dates are likely to be announced in the next one week while the voting is expected to be held in the second week of February.
 
 Officials in the election department of   said the work pertaining to voters’ list was in final stages. “More names of voters will be added to the list by January 12 in the form of a supplementary list,” they said.
 
 A senior official said, “A supplementary list will have names of those voters who applied for the inclusion of their names in the latest drive conducted during September and October 2016. About 1.50 lakh applicants in eight assembly constituencies in Pune had submitted their applications during this drive and their names will be included in the supplementary voters’ list. With the addition of new names, the voters’ number in 44 panels may go up to 26 lakh.”
 
 As per procedure, the district election office will publish the supplementary list by January 5. The civic body will prepare a revise list based on the boundaries of the panels, which will be published by January 12, 2017. The PMC will consider the suggestions and objections and will come up with the final list by January 21. 
 
 Most applications for addition of names were received in the Khadakwasla (38,770) constituency followed by Hadapsar (31,700) and Kothrud (23,814).The lowest applications of 5,900 were received in the   area.
 
 Political workers unhappy
 
 Local political leaders have raised objections over the panel-wise list. They claimed that the revision was improper because of which names of voters have been listed in neighbouring panels. The leaders said most issues are pertaining to the voters staying in boundary areas of the panels. The leaders are now planning to approach election office for rectifications. The leader of the  , Hemant Sambhus, said he has submitted a letter to the civic administration to look into the matter with priority. 
 
 Photos of candidates on ballots
 
 A proposal has been under consideration to publish photographs of every candidate along with his/her name on the ballot paper during the civic polls. Sources in the election department said the matter was with the state election commission, which will take a final call. “The local election department has no role to decide on it,” the sources said.
 
