GURUGRAM: A 32-year-old insurance executive from Delhi was kidnapped by two armed men in Gurugram on Monday night and held hostage in his car overnight as he was driven from one ATM to another to withdraw as much cash as possible before being rescued by police from  , nearly 200km away, on Tuesday afternoon.

 Samarth Kohli’s 15-hour ordeal began at Subhash Chowk late on Monday when he was driving home to Tilak Nagar in Delhi. Kohli, an employee of   whose office is in Sector 48, had stopped around 10pm near Subhash Chowk to throw out old car headlights, which he had recently got replaced, from the boot of his silver-coloured Honda City, when two men with guns appeared and held him hostage. They forced him to lie down between the front and back rows of his car, and drove off, Kohli told police.
 
 The abductors stopped at various locations, forced Kohli to provide pin numbers of his three ATM cards, and made several withdrawals from his accounts. Luckily, the withdrawal SMS alerts were being sent to a number being used by Kohli’s sister-in-law, which the kidnappers were unaware of.
 
 On Monday morning, Samarth’s brother Dhruv filed a complaint at Sadar police station, about his brother not returning home, while multiple withdrawals were being made from his account, including a credit card payment at a petrol pump in Sector 14. Dhruv also said there were three withdrawals of Rs 10,000 each, and one of Rs 5,000 from an ATM in Universal Tower. One more withdrawal was made at Jaipur, raising suspicion Kohli had been abducted.
 
 A case was registered under Section 365 (kidnapping) of IPC. Police soon confirmed the abduction by checking CCTV footage from the petrol pump. A police team was immediately dispatched to Rajasthan. “We narrowed down their route with the help of locations of ATMs they withdrew from, which indicated they were moving along the Jaipur-Ajmer highway. We immediately got in touch with the Jaipur IG and the Ajmer SP, and had barricades set up along the route,” said ACP (Sadar) Anil Yadav, who headed the rescue operation.
 
 At around 8am, the kidnappers got Kohli to call his family to inform them he was safe. By this time, they had withdrawn around Rs 1.5 lakh from Kohli’s account. The kidnappers went past a few barricades near Beawar on the highway, but were finally signalled to stop near Rajgarh in Rajasthan around 1pm. The kidnappers drove through the barricade, stopped meters ahead and ran away on foot, leaving Kohli and the car.
 
 “We have some strong leads on the kidnappers, who have been identified. One of them is from Rajasthan, the other from Haryana,” added Yadav..
 
 (With inputs from Sanjay Yadav)
 
 
