AURANGABAD: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has   in the city and parts of Marathwada in the next 24 hours by Wednesday. The unseasonal weather conditions could be witnessed during afternoon or evening hours, the met department has said. 

 IMD authorities said a set of weather systems developed over southern states of the country has lead to the possibility of rain or thundershower in parts of Marathwada.
 
 A trough has formed over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Also, a cyclonic circulation has also developed over parts of these two states. Marathwada being adjacent to both these states, faces chances of rainfall or thundershowers, IMD officials said.
 
 The mercury level continues to show below normal in Aurangabad with both maximum and minimum temperature showing significant drops as compared to normal temperature. 
 
 The city registered maximum temperature of 32.9 degrees celsius and minimum of 15.2 degrees celsius on Tuesday. Both maximum and minimum temperatures were 3 degrees below normal. On Monday, Aurangabad registered minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees celsius, the lowest for the last one week. 
 
 As per IMD data, Aurangabad has been consistently registering below normal maximum temperature over last seven days. The minimum temperature, on the other hand, has dipped below normal range since the weekend.
 
 Meanwhile, the narrowing difference between maximum and minimum temperatures is expected to contain spread of viral diseases,   (IMA) officials said. Earlier, fluctuation in temperature from hot towards cold during the day and night time was giving rise to flu and related diseases. 
 
 Several residents said they perceived significant change in night temperature. ”It is getting colder during night, offering a winter like feeling. The onset of summer seems to have reduced gradually,” said  , a senior citizen.
 
 B B Bhosale, director of extension education at Parbhani-based Vasantrao  , said chickpea and lately sown sorghum could get affected if IMD forecast turns into reality. “Most of the Rabi crops have been harvested but chickpea and lately sown sorghum are still standing in many farms along with maize. While maize can sustain adverse weather conditions, chickpea and sorghum could get harmed due to unseasonal rain,” he said.
 
 BOX- MERCURY LEVELS DIP 
 
 Day Max Difference Min Difference
 
 Tue 32.9 -3 15.2 -3
 
 Mon 32.9 -2.5 12.6 -5.4
 
 Sun 29.6 -5.1 15.2 -2.8 
 
