KOLKATA: You may have heard of   in rural corners issuing harsh diktats. But imagine one being held in the heart of Kolkata. A local club in Beliaghata has ordered an elderly couple to vacate their home for their son and daughter-in-law who complained of abuse. 

 Kangaroo courts, unofficial and illegal assemblies that deliver instant “justice” without any authority to do so, are commonplace in Bengal’s hinterland. In the assembly in 2005, the Left Front had tried to provide a legal sanction to these by introducing the West Bengal Block Level Pre-Litigation Conciliation Board. The bill was withdrawn after the Left parties and the opposition failed to reach a consensus. But the incident in Beliaghata signals that such extra-judicial bodies are very much active — not only in the districts, but in the city too.
 
 Members of Beliaghata Players’ Corner have allegedly told   and her husband Shankar, residents of CIT building, to move out and let their daughter-in-law Chaitali stay with her husband Subhendu for at least six months to reconcile their differences. On Wednesday, Kamala and Shankar, who lodged a police complaint against Chaitali on Tuesday night, were not there at home. 
 
 According to club members, Chaitali had approached them through neighbours last month and alleged that her mother-in-law was preventing her from staying with her husband and 10-year-old son. “They did not let me enter this house for over six years. I was forced to stay with my father and deprived of even seeing my son. Since he has not spent his impressionable age with me, my son has drifted away. I approached the police but to no avail. Then I was forced to approach the local club,” Chaitali told TOI. 
 
 “The family was torturing the girl for a long time. Several people from the neighbourhood approached us in the past to help the woman, but we did not intervene because it was their internal matter. But the situation changed in the past few days. The neighbours sought our support and we could not ignore them,” said club secretary Bidyut Ghosh. “If we hadn’t intervened, they could have harmed the girl,” said another member.
 
 On Tuesday evening, club members and neighbours visited the Karmakars’ apartment and insisted they move out. 
 
 Kamala refuted the allegations of abuse. “After a few months of the marriage, we discovered Chaitali was mentally unsound. But this fact was concealed from us. After few years, she left the house on her own and now she is alleging that we drove her away. On Tuesday evening, she came with more than 100 men who forced their way into our house. They assaulted me and my son and forced me to leave,” Kamala said. 
 
 Subhendu, too, said he did not prevent his wife from returning.
 
 In 1998, the SC had ruled that anyone attending a   could be charged under IPC Section 141 that deals with unlawful assembly. Anyone arrested under this section can be sentenced to six months’ imprisonment if proved guilty.
 
 Sociologist Prasanta Ray felt the court could have been the result of a local power game rather than a social phenomenon. “I suspect the club was roped in to scare away the elderly couple. They might even have been paid to do the job. Usually, clubs enjoy the patronage of political leaders and they know they can get away with anything,” said Ray.
 
 An officer of Beliaghata police station said: “We have received complaints from both sides and are probing the matter.” 
 
 
