The fallout between   (the original Bhabiji), and Binaifer and  , the makers of the show ' ', has taken another ugly turn. Almost a year after Shilpa quit the show, alleging mental torture and threat to her career, the actress on Thursday filed an FIR against Sanjay at Waliv Police Station, accusing him of sexual harassment. 
She says, “I have been mentally tortured by the producer couple. I was also sexually harassed — Sanjay would often ask me to accompany him on promotional tours and say that I looked hot and beautiful. I shared my grievance with his wife Binaifer, but she didn’t act on it. Instead, I was labelled unprofessional. They claimed that I wanted to quit the show over an ill-fit blouse; tell me, who does that? I never wanted to quit the show, but was forced to work on their terms. However, I was replaced overnight after I refused to bow down. They slapped a case on me for causing them damages amounting to `12.5 crore. It’s been a year since I exited the show, 
 but the torture continues. They even dissuaded others who approached me for work. They still have to clear my dues, which amount to `32 lakh.”
 
 
  
 Ask Shilpa why she took so long to file a complaint with the cops and she replies, “I wanted to do so since the beginning, but my lawyers kept changing. Also, my calls were being recorded, because of which I had to change my number thrice. Finally, I decided that enough is enough; I don’t place work above self-respect and dignity.”
 Sub-Inspector Vimal Dattatray Mali confirms, “Yes, an FIR has been registered and investigations are on.”
 However, Binaifer says, “The matter is subjudice and I have faith in the judiciary. I don’t want to give her unnecessary importance for her obvious false allegations.”
 While Binaifer restricted her comment, a source close to the couple says, “Binaifer and Sanjay had filed a case against Shilpa for causing them damages, but she never appeared for a single hearing. I assume the case she has filed is her way of arm-twisting them. If Sanjay has abused her sexually, why would she visit the set of the show with a box of chocolates and send Binaifer text messages saying she wants to visit their home after quitting the show? They have told her multiple times to stop visiting their set as it amounts to trespassing. Why would any woman do that if she has been sexually harassed and tortured by the producer? Their only bone of contention with her was that she reported late to the shoot and asked for undue money. She threatened to not show up at the shoot if her demands were not met. All they want from her is that she should pay the damages. She first accused the channel of harassment and after realising that they were big players, she is pressing such serious charges on the producers. Till now, she never spoke ill about Sanjay and only thrashed Binaifer. Why has she woken up after almost a year with such serious charges? ”
 
  
  
 
