MUMBAI:   has sold a 10.3% stake in its tower unit to   and   for Rs 6,194 crore ($952 million) to pare debt. The company, led by Sunil Mittal, has a debt of over Rs 90,000 crore on its books. 

 Following the stake-sale, Bharti Airtel’s holding in the tower unit stands at 62%. The company, which is among the top three mobile service providers in terms of subscribers, has sold 19 crore shares of its subsidiary   for Rs 325 apiece. On Tuesday, Bharti Infratel’s shares closed at Rs 318 on  .
 
 The share-sale will help Bharti Airtel to improve its balance sheet as competition intensifies in the world’s second largest   market. Reliance Jio’s offering of free calls and a proposed merger between   and   has mounted pressure on Bharti Airtel. In an attempt to ramp up its presence, the New Delhi-based company acquired Telenor’s India operations and Tikona Digital Networks’ 4G airwaves. The two buyouts have added to Bharti Airtel’s consolidated debt pile. 
 
 “Bharti had been considering selling a controlling stake in the venture, but the announced consolidation between Vodafone and Idea knocked the stock off its highs. While it’s a step in the right direction in reducing debt, we infer the smaller deal means Bharti has decided to wait for the price of Infratel to correct before selling a larger stake,” Chris Lane, an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in Hong Kong, told Bloomberg. 
 
 On March 15, Bharti Airtel had scrapped its plan to sell a significant stake in Bharti Infratel, and instead transferred about 22% of its stake in the tower unit to its wholly owned subsidiary,  .
 
 The investors, KKR and Canada Pension, jointly form the single-largest public shareholder block in Bharti Infratel. For KKR, this is its second investment in the tower unit—between 2008 and 2015 the US fund had backed Bharti Infratel. “This investment by a consortium of marquee long-term investors reinforces the positive outlook for the telecom infrastructure sector,” said Sunil Mittal, chairman of Bharti Airtel in a statement. 
 
 “The long-term investment horizon of the investors aligns well with the capital needs and business cycles of Bharti Infratel”. Following the transaction, Bharti Airtel’s stake in the tower unit is 40%, while that of Nettle Infrastructure’s remains at 22%. Bharti Infratel has a consolidated portfolio of over 90,000 telecom towers, which includes over 38,500 of its own towers and the remaining from its 42% equity interest in Indus Towers. Besides Bharti Infratel, the other shareholders in Indus Towers are Vodafone India (42%), Idea Cellular (11%) and Providence Private Equity (5%).
 
