MUMBAI: The very day 85 advanced   breathalyzers were introduced, on New Year’s Eve, as many as 565 drunk drivers were caught and made to pay fines through  . These advanced machines have left offenders worried because unlike in the era of manual challans, their records will now be maintained along with their details and photographs.

 The new machines, which are connected to a server at the traffic police headquarters, issue e-challans on the spot with evidence collected in the form of offenders’ photographs, which are clicked as soon as they blow into the breathalyzers. The traffic police’s   showed a 47% rise in cases in 2016 to 20,768 from 14,133 four years ago, in 2012.
 
 Of the 20,768 offenders caught in 2016, 565 paid fine through e-challans on the night of December 31. In 2016, a total of 3,826 driving licences were suspended for three to a maximum of six months, depending on the seriousness of the offence. “In several cases, the court has also convicted those found guilty and repeat violators of traffic rules,” said a senior traffic police officer.
 
 In January 2016, the Bombay high court had ordered that both the Central and state governments adopt a “zero tolerance” policy towards drunk driving, stressing that the mere presence of alcohol in a driver’s blood should be sufficient to disentitle him from driving with immediate suspension of licence.
 
 D Sivanandhan, former state director general of police, said, “The law alone cannot force people to follow safety rules. Only stringent punishment can deter people. Besides, discipline must come from within and from families.” Former Thane police commissioner S P S Yadav said those who habitually drive while drunk have a preconceived notion that they will get away with it either due to some loopholes in the system or “meagre” fine. “It will be advisable to check such offenders at the originating point of their journey, that is, near parking lots of various bars and drinking houses.” 
 
 IPS officer turned lawyer Y P Singh said for drunk driving, Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, provides for punishment up to six months for the first offence and up to two years for the second committed within three years. “The psychology of a drunk motorist is that he will not get caught, and if caught, he will be able to escape with some cosmetic fine. In some cases, identities of the offenders have also been swapped. With the confidence of impunity, a drunk motorist drives with no fear of the law.” 
 
 
