PUNE: Not many artistes can boast of an association that dates back 50 years. Then again, santoor’s classical pioneer   and tabla virtuoso   are a rare breed. They aren’t just great exponents of their crafts, the harmony between them is incomparable.

 The artistes will take centre stage in Pune after a five-year gap on Saturday evening at Mahalaxmi Lawns in Kothrud. But not many are aware that this is a   year of their partnership.
 
 “Though we are playing in Pune after some gap, hamare dil mile hue hain (our hearts are together forever),” said the 79-year-old santoor maestro, at a special interaction. “The first time Zakir played with me was in 1967. He was 14-15 years old. From the 1970s, he started playing regularly with me. We have toured all over the world. We have really come a long way.”
 
 If sitar virtuoso Ravi Shankar and tabla great Alla Rakha, father of 66-year-old Zakir, played a significant role in taking Hindustani Classical music to the West, Sharma and Zakir have only added to the flow.
 
 However, Sharma is against calling his work with Zakir a jugalbandi. “A jugalbandi is a between two instruments of similar nature,” he said, adding, “But there is lack of awareness while calling our coming together is jugalbandi.”
 
 Zakir’s ability to match the santoor stroke for stroke, chhand for chhand (rhythmic licence to play with beat divisions) and to synchronize the tonal texture of tabla during the muted jhala followed by the high-speed crescendo gives an impression that it’s a jugalbandi.
 
 Before their last concert here, Sharma had told the audience, “Aisa sangatkar shayad hi kabhi hua ho (Zakir is a peerless accompanist).” He paid rich tribute to Zakir’s art again when he said, “People enjoy our music together. When Zakir accompanies me, it’s very inspiring. He not only understands my music, he understands me as a person. What unfolds on stage is not just understanding between two musicians and their music, but also the understanding and connection between us as human beings.” 
 
 Sharma recalled the words Zakir spoke after one of their concerts together in USA, “Zakir had said ‘Main inka driver hoon aur meri duty yeh hai ki mein iss itminaan se gaadi chalaoon ki kahi par bhi unko dhakka nahi lage…kahi par bhi overspeed na karoon…kahi pe unko disturb na ho…aur unki destination tak — jo ki ‘sum’ hai (first stressed beat of the rhythmic cycle) — chhod doon (I am his driver. My duty is to reach the destination safely and smoothly by fully understanding my limits).” 
 
 “This is his approach towards music. Today, tabla players are too eager to ‘show’ their craft without getting truly immersed in the emotional flow of the raga. Tabla players of that mindset should listen to Zakir,” he said.
 
 Even we will be listening with rapt attention.
 
