LUCKNOW: Team Narendra Modi’s Muslim face and chancellor of Maulana Azad National Urdu University  , who is on a three-day tour of poll bound Uttar Pradesh to feel the pulse of the electorate in general and the Muslim   in particular, met top clerics of leading seminary Nadwatul Ulema in Lucknow on Monday.

 Later, talking exclusively to TOI, he said minorities no longer see BJP as their enemy. “Earlier, political rivals of our prime minister Narendra Modi had tried to paint him as an enemy of the minority community but people are not buying this notion any longer,” he said. Describing his meeting with the seminary’s rector Maulana Rabe Hasan Nadvi and Mualana Salman as a courtesy call, he said to have discussed a host of issues relating to the minority community including education, health and extent and impact of various schemes launched for empowerment of Muslims.
 
 Taking a dig political parties out to woo Muslims by giving them tickets and promising the community sops, he said, “Muslims will have to understand they cannot continue being treated as statistics in government schemes and manifestos of political parties. They have to rise above issues and go for better education so that they can claim their rights in the society on the grounds of their qualification rather than sops,” Sareshwala, who is holding a series of work shops titled ‘Taleem O Tarbiyat‘ focusing on financial literacy among Muslims in collaboration with the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and public sector banks starting with the inaugural session at PM Modi’s constituency of Varanasi, on Februrary 19. 
 
 The move is being seen as another step in helping the minority community to keep abreast with the advancement in financial sector and stay in sync with the latest in the sector. Recently, Sareshwala’s initiative towards modernisation of madarasas has yeilded results with 10 such institutes being linked to virtual classes as a pilot project. The virtual classes were introduced at Rasoolpura Madarsa Charagh-e-Uloom in Nati Imli locality under the project.
 
 Advocating ban on   in a single sitting, Sareshwala said the practice involves a process as defined in the holy scriptures and people should follow the process. “People who resort to triple talaq in single sitting should be imprisoned for violating the  ,” he said. On the raging controversy over minority status of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) he said the issue can be taken up with prime minister Modi by people concerned and can be sorted out through discussions. “It is sad to see that when the Shah Bano case came up, delegation after delegation went to meet the then prime minister but when it came to the minorities status of the AMU, no one even bothered to approach the PM,” Sareshwala said.
 
 “It is education that makes a person able to judge who they should vote for. They would be able to analyse which party would work for the country if voted to power. We will discuss even contentious issues like the Ram temple-Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, Uniform Civil Code and reservation to the youths with an open mind,” Sareshwala said.
 
 Explaining how BJP has, of late softened its stance on other sensitive issues, he said the party was no longer pressing for a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, like it had in the past. “The previous slogan of building a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, come what may, is no longer valid. The party has said clearly there should either be an amicable solution to the vexed issue or the party will abide by the decision of Supreme Court which hearing the case .... that is precisely what the Muslims have asked for,” he said.
 
 
