It was just another month that I had missed my periods by a week. But it didn’t bother me much as I was busy preparing for my little sister’s wedding which was just round the corner. It was like I have been waiting for this family occasion to happen all my life. Suddenly I started getting a lot of break outs, not that I never had them before but this time it was different and they were all over the face and painful too. Ghosh this was the last thing I expected to go wrong just before the week I was to travel for the wedding. I decided to visit a gynecologist as I assumed that it might be PCOD. The doctor asked me to get a whole bunch of tests done and one of them was HCG. She suspected that I could be pregnant and I had to get that test done every alternate day. As a so called hard working professional, to me that sounded a little too much as I would be late to office for 3 days and the following week I would be on leave for the wedding. 

 Nonetheless, I got the tests done and here came the good news, I was pregnant! Well it was another thing that I have been wanting to experience but, right before my sister’s wedding! How will I dance, drink and go crazy! I was happy and anxious at the same time. My husband and I wanted to have a child but were planning for it after a couple of months and here the universe had preponed the plan for us. When I broke the news to my husband his reaction was something I had not anticipated. He said, “Let’s discuss this over the weekend”, it meant after 4 days. I was upset with his reaction but I decided to stay calm. After a couple of days I started to bleed, it was like having my period. That scared me, so I called my gynecologist. She asked me to visit her immediately. This time my husband decided to accompany me. I was asked to get ultrasound done as the doctor feared some complication in my pregnancy and the reports proved her doubts to be true. It was a case of   and this meant I had to abort the child. 
 
 It was a shock for me and too much to digest. In the last five days I had already started to picture the baby, the likely sun sign, to do list and here it was all falling apart. I got the surgery done and tried to be strong, as I could not let my family know that I am weak and broken from inside. I was fine by the next day and could be discharged. A group of friends who got to know about this said they would like to pay a visit to us. Initially it sounded fine to me, however, I can still never forget the evening when this all happened. I was taken to our bedroom and was asked to take rest. In the living area there were delicacies for the group and it sounded as if they were all having a party and my husband was a part of it. Their conversations and giggle were hammering my brain. I had just lost my child, I wanted some peace, some space and best wishes. How could the world be so clueless about their acts and the impact they might have on people around them. 
 
 I am lucky I had one close friend in our housing society and I stormed out of the house to meet her. I cried my heart out to her. I wanted to speak with my husband but I guess he was trying to escape the discussion. Our friends left after an hour and I came back to the house. I wanted to shout and cry and talk to my husband but could not as my brother was present and didn’t want to bother him with my problems. The next day my brother left and then started the outburst. 
 
 It was one of the worst arguments that I ever had with my husband. He cursed and called me ill-mannered for leaving the house in the presence of his friends. He was not concerned about my mental and physical well-being, he could not relate to my situation, he kept on screaming and slept in another room. That was the day I realized I am my responsibility. I can’t depend on anyone be it husband, other family members or friends for my happiness. I had to take charge of my life and never let anybody take away what I deserve. That day something changed in me and now I give a damn! I am not the happiest person on earth but I am in control.
 
 Whoever is reading this, I only have one request to make – please  . A lot of times there are people around us grieving. It easy to say we understand but really difficult to put yourself in other person’s shoes. Try doing it and sincerely, only then will you be able to really help lessen someone’s grief. 
 
 
 
 
