MUMBAI: A fortnight after a special investigation team of Mumbai police probing the  , along with experts from IIT-Powai, took samples of 34 roads to check if they have been repaired as per norms, police are still awaiting the test reports. 

 Police said they had sought help from   as they lacked expertise in this matter. “We collected samples of the 34 roads listed in the BMC inquiry report as part of the investigation. These are being analyzed by experts from IIT,” confirmed deputy commissioner of police Manoj Kumar Sharma.
 
 In May, TOI had reported that the   had roped in IIT-B experts to   the scam. 
 
 These 34 roads were initially sampled in the first phase of the BMC probe in January 2016 and irregularities were found, following which an FIR was lodged against six contractors and two third-party auditors.
 
 In May 2016, the BMC inspected 200 other roads and shoddy work came to light. In most of these roads, the inquiry committee had found the use of inferior quality material among other lapses, like differences in the thickness of the road repaired and what was on paper. The inquiry team also found that at many sites, the contractor did not dig up roads or remove debris while building a new road but claimed transport bills for removing debris. The inflated and fake transport bills caused the civic body huge losses, the inquiry committee report said. Show-cause notices were sent to 11 contractors found guilty in the second phase of the inquiry. 
 
 In July 2016, two senior civic officials—former chief engineer roads Ashok Pawar and former chief engineer vigilance Uday Murudkar—and Deepan Shah, one of the directors of Relcon Infra are arersted.
 
 On July 12, TOI had reported that an internal committee had nailed 281 civic engineers from the roads department for failing to supervise road repair works. Of these, 90 were held responsible for the 34 shoddily repaired roads inspected in the first phase in January 2016 and the remaining 191 have been accused of dereliction of duty for shoddy work on the 200-plus roads inspected in the second phase in May 2016.
 
 
