

 'Judwaa 2', starring Varun Dhawan is a remake of the 1997 'Judwaa', directed by  . In its endeavour to be as close as possible to the yesteryear Salman Khan hit, 'Judwaa 2' has picked up two of the original songs and included them in this album of four. The movie, which sees Varun in a cheeky double role, has   and Taapsee Pannu in the characters that were played by Karisma Kapoor and Rambha in the earlier version.
 
 The first track '  9 Se 12' by   and Neha Kakkar is a remake of   and Poornima’s iconic rendition of ' '. Since its release three weeks back, this song has garnered multiple views and a lot of love online, invariably catapulting it up to the number one position in the   20 Charts this week. 
 
 Two decades ago, this was a super hit dance number by composer Anu Malik and the remake has Sandeep Shirodkar co-composing it with him. There is hardly much difference between the two, but the fact remains that the Abhijeet-Anu combo definitely was the better one.
 
 The next, 'Suno Ganpati Bappa Morya' is a cheeky, flirty and fun number penned by Danish Sabri — with words, Pareshan Kare Mujhe Choriyaan, right in the second line of the chorus. Expectations from Amit Mishra after his rendition of 'Bulleya' ('Ae Dil Hai Mushkil', 2016) have been understandably high, but the singer didn’t have much scope to showcase his skills in this foot-tapping Sajid-Wajid number. The music in this light-hearted track has an appealing signature beat along with an interesting use of acoustic guitars and trumpets.
 
 The third track 'Oonchi Hai Building', is a remake with the same name and sees Anu Malik pairing up with Neha this time (  sang the original number). The Punjabi touch in the new version with its pronounced dhol beats lends a contemporary soundscape to the track. This favourite party classic with its shelf-life of 20 years is already climbing the charts quickly.
 
 'Aa Toh Sahi', is a high-voltage dance number composed by the Meet Bros. With stylish rap by Roach Killa, this song sung by the composer duo along with Neha, is a catchy track with a cool, contemporary vibe. Sonu Saggu’s flirty lyrics come alive with Neha’s vocals in Kab Mummy Daddy Mere Tu Patayega, Leke Band Baaja Ghar Mere Aayega, Kab Tak Mujhe Aise Hi Ghumayega, Tu Baat Badha To Sahi'.
 
 Since this is a remake with remade songs, it isn’t right to look for original, inspiring streaks here. The videos of the songs have once more showcased Varun’s exemplary dancing skills. However, the masala album, with Neha’s oomph, foot-tapping music, along with fun-bordering-on-tawdry lyrics, paired with suggestive moves, is already hitting the right chords with the masses.
 
 
