NEW DELHI: In a major setback for BJP, nomination of its three candidates were allegedly rejected by the state election commission during a scrutiny of documents on Wednesday. With this, the party is likely to contest on 269 out of 272 seats as the nomination of covering candidates have also been rejected as well. Covering candidates are the people whose nomination papers are filed along with the main candidate.

 According to sources, there were 16 candidates whose documents were “not in order”. While the nomination of candidates from Vinod Nagar ward in east Delhi as well as Bapraula and Abul Fazal Enclave wards in south Delhi was already rejected, five others are also said to be in the danger zone as discrepancies were found in their papers. 
 
 Abul Fazal Enclave candidate Jamal Haider said that he would approach the commission for a review on Thursday.
 
 The party is likely to lose another ward, Kishenganj in north Delhi, as SEC pointed out deficiency in the documents filed by BJP candidate Monika Chabbra. 
 
 “We don’t even have a covering candidate for this ward. The party will take up the matter with the commission,” said a senior BJP member.
 
 While the party is likely to have no candidates from the above mentioned wards, it has managed to make up for the damage in some wards, as nomination of covering candidates or BJP rebels have been accepted.
 
 For instance, in its first list, BJP had given ticket for the Khayla seat to Sunita Yadav. On the last day of filing nomination, the party cancelled her ticket and gave it to Babli Chandela. 
 
 Yadav had filed her nomination by the time party announced Chandela’s name in its last list on Monday afternoon. “We have now announced Yadav as our candidate as Chandela’s nomination was rejected,” said a BJP functionary.
 
 At Wazirpur ward, Harish Sharma’s nomination was rejected. Interestingly, his covering candidate, Suresh Bharadwaj, is sitting councillor Poonam Bharadwaj’s father-in-law. Sharma told TOI that his nomination was rejected as he “forgot to carry some documents”. Local BJP workers allege that some people have played dirty tricks to dodge the party’s decision to not give ticket to sitting councillors and their relatives.
 
 BJP sources said that problems were reported from Lado Sarai and Mandavali wards as well. “Efforts are being made to minimise the damage. In other wards, discussion is on to support independent candidates,” said a BJP member.
 
 Meanwhile, a section of party members is blaming the senior leadership for the mess as the complete candidate list was announced just hours before the closing of nomination on Monday. “Candidates didn’t get sufficient time to get the documents checked,” said a senior BJP functionary.
 
 The upcoming municipal elections are crucial for the party to remain relevant in the state, especially with AAP and other new parties jumping into the fray for the first time.
 
