PATNA: President   will be in Patna on Friday to inaugurate the third and final international conference to mark the silver jubilee celebrations of the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI).

 According to police sources, security and traffic preparations for the President’s visit are “concrete”. “Barricades have been erected on both sides of the roads in the route to be followed by Mukherjee’s cavalcade starting from the Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport to Hotel Maurya. All security arrangements are complete and the entire police machinery will be on alert during his arrival,” said an official at the Bihar Police headquarters on Thursday.
 
 The President will arrive here on a Boeing Business Jet of the Indian Air Force at 1.15pm. He will open the inaugural session of ADRI’s silver jubilee conference at Hotel Maurya between 2.15pm and 3.15pm and depart for New Delhi at 3.30pm.
 
 While the President’s Bodyguard looks after the security ring around the President, the state police machinery along with anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and special task force (STF) is responsible for his security in the immediate surroundings.
 
 Besides, the Patna traffic police has prepared a traffic plan for Mukherjee’s movement from the airport to the venue of the event.
 
 “The President is scheduled to inaugurate the third silver jubilee conference of ADRI in the presence of dignitaries, including chief minister Nitish Kumar and governor Ram Nath Kovind, among others,” said ADRI member secretary Shaibal Gupta.
 
 Over 150 scholars from India and abroad, including those from prestigious universities like Oxford, Cambridge, Yale, London School of Economics, Amsterdam and National University of Singapore, will deliver talks and present papers at the five-day conference on the theme of ‘Bihar and Jharkhand: Shared History to Shared Vision’.
 
 The President visited Nalanda on March 19 to participate in the closing ceremony of the International Buddhist Conference. Moreover, he is expected to come to Bihar again to take part in the upcoming Champaran centenary celebrations.
 
 
