JAISALMER: The three-day world famous desert festival kicked off in Jaisalmer from Wednesday with a procession from the  . District collector Matadeen Sharma along with   flagged off the grand procession. SP Gaurav Yadav, UIT Chairman Jitendra Singh, Zila Pramukh Anjana Meghwal, Pradhan Amardeen Phakir and vice chairmen of muncipal council Ramesh Jeenagar along with many public representative and senior officers were present in the procession. The entire city flocked to have a glimpse of the   which was welcomed in the entire route. Renowned artists from various parts of the country displayed colourful performances in procession and introduced people to myriad cultures of the country. Khajuwala ke Musk Vadan artist Angrej Singh was at the front of the procession.

 Along with Singh, artists were dancing to the beats of drums. Folk artists were playing Tuvi, Balotra artist Ummeda Ram was performing Angi Dance. School girls were carrying Mangal Kalash on their heads in colourful Rajasthani attire. Artists from Bhavnagar displayed the rich culture of Gujrat and attracted audience with famous Ras Garba dance. Next performers were 48 decorated camels with BSF jawans atop them led by BSF deputy commandant Kuldeep Singh Choudhary. Eighth wonder of the world, camel mounted band was playing Rajasthani songs under the direction of band master Phoolaram Rana. BSF jawans were dressed in the attire of groom with spears on their hands which curbed hungers of the shutterbugs.
 
 Decorated participants taking part in Marushree competition sitting on camel added beauty to the procession and participants of Moomal-Mahendra on camels were looking gorgeous. Covering the distance of 1.5 kms, the procession reached Poonam Singh stadium. Large number of foreign tourists enjoyed diverse cultures of India. Collector and MLA inaugurated the festival by beating the drum. The stadium was crowd packed who were enjoying the inaugural function.
 
 On first day of desert destival, Jaisalmer’s Kapil Chhangani Bhayal was announced Mr. Desert in Marushree competition at Poonam Singh stadium. Collector Sharma awarded title and congratulated Kapil.
 
 Out of 29 competitors, Chhangani was selected for Mr Desert. Kapil said he was preparing for this competition from last six months and he won the title on Wednesday. The title of Miss Moomal was won by Monika Bhati. Three particpants took part in this competition. Monika said she was preparing for last one month. Nine took part in turban tying competition and Sharif Khan secured the first position by wearing turban in just two minutes. Chandan Singh Sodha and Gordhan Ram both secured second position and Sawai Singh Tanwar was placed on third. Fifteen foreigners took park in the same competition in which Florant surprised the audience by tying turban in three minute. John bagged the second position and the third position was secured by the trio — Albert, Hovard and Jona. 
 
 Chandraprakash got the first prize in moustache competition whereas Sawai singh Tanwar and Mahesh Kumar Channgani both came second and Kanyu Charan secured third position. 
 
  stood first in Moomal Mahendra competition while Little Heart school was second and Radha Krishna Ucha Prathmik School was in third position. Participants from 10 partook.
 
 On February 9, competitions will be organised from 9 am to 1.30 pm at Dedansar Stadium which will include Camel Decoration, Shah-E-Marudhara, Tug-of-War (Indian v/s Foreigners), Women Wrestling, Camel Polo Match, Panihari Matka Race. There will also be Air Warrior Drill by Indian Air Force and Camel Tattoo Show by BSF. There will be a cultural programme of folk music and dance at Shahid Poonam Singh Stadium later in the evening.
 
