JAIPUR: The   is pressing hard to complete the Dravyavati River project by July 2018.

 On Thursday, chief minister   during a meeting with Tata representatives shifted the deadline from August to July and directed to expedite the work at site.
 
 The deadline is preponed for one month as Raje during the inauguration expressed her eagerness to showcase the river project before the voters just as her predecessor Ashok Gehlot had done with the Jaipur Metro.
 
 The CM also directed managing director (MD) of   Vinayak Deshpande to visit Jaipur every month and inspect the site. Sources claimed, the MD will submit the monitoring report on a monthly basis to the state government.
 
 It was discussed that Tata has completed 20% work till date after spending approximately Rs 340 crore. The JDA officials are apprehensive to meet the deadline if the awarded firm continue with the same speed.
 
 Sources claimed, “Every month the firm has to meet a target of Rs 100 crore. However, it would be a challenging task. The firm will submit the comprehensive action plan for the same.”
 
 At present, the firm is facing difficulties to initiate work in army area stretch falling between Ambabari and Hasssanpura. Official said, army had raised objection to carry out rejuvenation work in 3.5-km claiming it would be a threat to national security. After a series of meetings in New Delhi recently, the consent was provided. The orders will be received soon.
 
 Similarly , it remains challenge for civic bodies to rehabilitate 584 houses situated in 2.7 km stretch between Hassanpura and Sushilpura. The officials are apprehensive that affected house owners of the project will not come fill the consent letter in camps , which will be organised on July 18.
 
 The state government awarded work to consortium of Tata Projects and Shanghai Urban Construction Group to develop the area by the riverside into a beautiful landscape. The firm is now working on a Rs 1,676 crore project to restore the river by August 15, 2018. An official said, “The levelling work in many areas is complete. The company has also started disposing the garbage and debris that was piled up in the river.”
 
 
