New  : It was an eyesore that stood in stark contrast to the glitzy malls across the road. It underlined the yawning gap between the two worlds, a huge dumping ground with mounds of  , giving out an unbearable stink. The urban village of   Extension, on Press Enclave Marg, provided the backdrop to this picture of apathy. However, all of a sudden on a Sunday in January,   Anil Baijal -- barely 10 days into his job -- arrived in the area for a cleanliness drive. Bulldozers were seen at work on this strip. Two months later, a park with walking tracks, installations, graffiti and outdoor gym has come up here for the residents.

 It has a name -- ‘Jamun wala park’, in memory of one that used to exist earlier. The initiative has been jointly undertaken by South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Select Citywalk. The task was carried out in just over eight weeks. The park, spread over an area of 95,000 square feet, has all the basic facilities for children and residents.
 
 It has a provision for a sewage treatment plant for horticulture and landscaping, disabled-friendly ramps and energy-saving LED lights too. According to officials, toilets, CCTV cameras and a badminton court will soon be added. To improve aesthetics, Delhi Street Art group was roped in. They have painted the walls with graffiti and educational messages like “Saving green spaces”. In future, installations from Khoj Studios -- which is locate in the area -- will be brought in with the park being used as a place to hold art exhibitions.
 
 According to SMDC officials, the gym equipment and LED lights have been provided by them but the park will be maintained by the mall. “We have planted a number of Jamun trees inside,” said Inder Sharma, chairman, Select Citywalk.
 
 The transformation of the area has been welcomed by the residents, with hundreds of children from the area making the park their favourite playground. RWA president Dinesh Awasthi said even the elderly can now go for walks. “We had been requesting for the garbage dump to be cleared for a long time but this park has meant children of Khirki can play again. People are visiting the park to play, take walks and even exercise in the morning,” said Awasthi.
 
 The park was opened on March 11, with LG Baijal and SDMC commissioner Puneet Goel planting Jamun saplings.
 
 ENDS
 
 
