KOCHI: As twilight sets in over the placid Kochi backwaters, there is palpable tension in the minds of young women and working mothers who hire taxis and autorickshaws to reach home after work. Fathers chide their young daughters who reach home a bit late as neon lights begin to sparkle over the pebbled bylanes of Foreshore Road: “Don't you know that place is filled with   and it is dangerous to be there after sunset.“

 The beauty of the city has begun to pale in front of the   like never before. The   of an actor whose horrifying details are now part of the statement made by the survivor to the police inside a car has brought in a sense of fear and helplessness amongst parents and working women across the state.
 
 If it was Jisha who was raped and murdered in Perumbavoor last year, the crime went a notch higher up in the social ladder this year. The rape of the actor was committed in a public place, that too inside an SUV, and it took Kerala police six days to nab the culprits.
 
 “What is the safety that we have here? The reason that the accused are becoming bolder than ever before is because they know that they can get away with the crime. Look at how they bungled up the Jisha murder case for instance,“ writer Sarah Joseph said.
 
 Criminologist Dr   feels that crimes like rape increase when criminals become confident that the survivor will not report the crime in the first place.
 
 “In this particular case, the accused had   in the past, but got away because none of the survivors dared to come forward. We should now laud and appreciate the courage of the actor who in the first place decided to file a complaint and include charges of rape in it. She has now become a role model for all rape survivors,“ he said.
 
 Experts in criminology point out to the shoddy investigation process which has been hampering many rape cases in the state. “The conviction rate in rape cases is just 20%, which is abysmal. What happens to the remaining 80% of the women who will have to suffer trauma for the rest of their lives.One should understand rape is a heinous crime and it cannot be hidden, fearing societal shame. Then rapist will only become more defiant and chart out his next victim,“ Dr Vadakkanchery said.
 
 Social activists points out that Kerala breeds on a consumeristic culture like never before where money is valued over relationship.
 
 “It was not that there were no rape cases 10 years ago. But what is happening today is that more number of cases is being reported and yet there are fewer number of convictions. The police are not dealing with these cases seriously and the state too give a damn about rehabilitating the survivors,“ said activist K Ajitha, who had suffered police brutalities in prison.
 
 She admits technology too has made easy for people to come in touch with each other but many relationships turn exploitative as the nature of man remains the same. “The awareness that women should be treated with respect and love and vice versa should begin from home,“ she said.
 
