BENGALURU: The state government's ambitious   project, which led to a rift within the cabinet ministers recently , is now “under examination“ of   chief secretary  .

 The project, which proposes to go deep into the crevices of the earth, was designed to detect with high precision the presence and location of naturally desalinated, self-recharging water sources that can supply water at a rate of 80,000 to 100,000 litres every hour.Each drill was to cost around Rs 12.5 crore; the project was proposed by rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) minister H K Patil. However, the proposal was put on hold after it came up for discussion at the cabinet meeting last week, where several ministers, including T B   (law), opposed the idea of looking for water in the depths of the earth.
 
 On Tuesday , speaking to the media, Jayachandra said: “I have gone into the depths of water rejuvenation and potable water search proposals. The basic problem is that Karnataka has sheetrock and drilling beyond a certain depth may cause harm to nature. Nonetheless, the government has asked the chief secretary to study in detail the entire proposal and suggest whether it's feasible.“
 
 Jayachandra said with existing laws barring all drilling or digging activities to get water, the project proposed by a private company may even be “illegal“.
 
 On being told that the proposal has worked well in certain Gulf nations, Jayachandra said topography and natural environment differ from nation to nation and this cannot be considered as a benchmark to allow the proposal. He said experiments of such sort may cause a lot of harm to nature instead of providing any respite.
 
 “We were told the same about cloud seeding in 2002. However, repeated efforts have not yielded any result. So, how are we supposed to believe that this particular experiment can be the answer to our concerns,“ he asked.
 
 Jayachandra said the government has already released Rs 30 crore for the cloud seeding proposal this year, as part of its efforts to minimize chances of a third consecutive year of drought. He said the amount has been released towards the RDPR department, which, in consultation with the irrigation department, will see the technical feasibility of cloud seeding and embark upon the project in the next two months.
 
 “The departments are prepared to start the cloud seeding project. But we have to wait for the appropriate time,“ he said. Jayachandra, who is also part of the cabinet sub-committee on drought, said the committee has proposed a series of ideas to be implemented in drought-hit areas, including changes in cropping patterns.
 
 He said water levels in the Cauvery basin are precarious, with water from the Hemavathi and   (KRS) not likely to last more than a month.Fodder for animals The state government has subscribed to fodder from a Punjab-based company for 1.27 lakh cattle in the state.Jayachandra said the government has awarded a Rs 18.25 crore tender to Green Meadow Dairy Products Private Limited to supply silage fodder.
 
 A mix of green fodder and powdered fodder wrapped in plastic along with certain ingredients for it to ferment will now be supplied to all dairy farmers who can purchase the same for Rs 2 per kilo. “While the actual rate is Rs 13.25 per kilo, we are subsidising it for farmers at Rs 2 per kilo. All district deputy commissioners have been asked to place orders for their requirement directly with the company ,“ the minister said.
 
