NEW DELHI: The five-member   collegium headed by Chief Justice   has resolved to devise a procedure to streamline the process to select judges of constitutional courts, a welcome but belated move to inject transparency in the selection process.

 The move comes in the wake of public opinion, litigants, lawyers and the government criticising the collegium for the ‘arbitrary and opaque’ process of selecting persons for appointment as judges and transfer of high court judges.
 
 Members of the collegium said it was the unanimous view in the selection body to lay down a procedure to avoid arbitrariness in decision making.
 
 “Churning is on. You will soon find a procedure guiding the selection of persons for appointment as judges of constitutional courts,” a member said. Apart from the CJI, other collegium members are Justices J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur and  . The collegium, through the CJI, will also interact with the Centre on streamlining the process for acceptance of recommendations.
 
 “There have been several instances in the past when the government sat on earlier recommendations for appointment of persons as HC judges while accepting later recommendations.
 
 This creates imbalance in seniority among HC judges in a seniority-driven hierarchy which decides who will enter the zone of consideration for being appointed as chief justices of HCs, and ultimately who will be eligible for appointment as judges of the Supreme Court,” a source said.
 
 The collegium headed by CJI Misra will soon give effect to the December 16, 2015 judgment of a five-judge bench mandating establishment of secretariats in the   and each HC. The secretariat will collate data on the track record of persons being considered for appointment as judges and place it before the collegium.
 
 Justice Chelameswar, who had penned a dissent to the five-judge bench’s majority decision to strike down the National Judicial Appointments Commission ( ), has kept himself out of collegium meetings in protest against non-recording of reasons during deliberations on selection of HC judges and their transfers.
 
 “The point made by Justice Chelameswar is being deliberated upon,” the source said.
 
 In its December 2015 judgment, the SC had asked the government to frame a new memorandum of procedure for selection of judges but nearly two years later, the draft is stuck over a disagreement on the Centre’s insistence on including a “national security” clause to enable the government to reject a name recommended for appointment as judge of the SC or HCs on these grounds.
 
 The collegium has been firm that the Centre must put in writing its objections, including on national security grounds, for rejecting a recommendation and insists that if the collegium reiterates its recommendation the appointment must go through. But the Centre remains firm it will only show intelligence inputs on a person to the collegium and not put it in writing as this could jeopardise the future of a person whose appointment was stalled because of national security apprehensions.
 
