NEW DELHI: “Recognise your interest, and follow you passion” seemed to be the motto of the   on Wednesday while addressing confused and anxious parents and their children looking at after-school choices. 

 The Mission Admission 2017 seminar, an initiative by The Times of India, was an eye opener for many parents who, until now, had been relying on traditional subjects to help their children land a job after college.
 
 Clearing their doubts, counsellor Pervin Malhotra pointed out the IT sector, a popular option till recently, is now the most impacted sector across the world. “The job scene around the world is ever changing. In fact, as studies say, a majority of skills learnt by students in school or college are not even required on the job.” 
 
 “Don’t take career decisions on the basis of what is hot today, because tomorrow it might be lukewarm and ice-cold thereafter,” Malhotra said. Instead, she suggested, students should understand their interests and make a career out of it as a lot of hard work is required to remain relevant in the job of choice. “If you don’t want to be redundant, reskill and retune yourself. This will continue till the end of your working life.”
 
 Counsellor   agreed. Suggesting that parents allow their children to explore their options and not dismiss any career, he said, “If you like to make movies, there are options for video professionals, there are avenues for memes, which can also become an alternative career.” 
 
 Chawla added that subjects like cyber law, social work, teaching, radio-jockeying and acting might be viable career options. Even social work no more voluntary work, he said, adding that there are well paying positions with corporate social responsibility departments of all big companies. 
 
  professor H K Dangi of Faculty of Management Science explored the prospects in the field of ‘big data’. “Marketing strategies are changing, and people want to see everything in terms of numbers. You don’t have a specialised degree in digital marketing, but there are many add-on courses by reputed institutes across the world that have made their resources online.” 
 
 Urvashi Malik, the founder of CollegeCore Education, said a student who might not have secured a DU seat despite scoring 93% didn’t need to feel disheartened. There are many countries that will allow them to continue higher education, she pointed out. “Universities in the USA and Canada have the advantage that their curriculum is not strict, and they allow you the flexibility to change a   or a major, or just add new dimensions to your existing major.”
 
