JAIPUR: The wildlife safaris in   that for the last one year since being introduced were running on a hit-and-trial approach are now going to be far more organised. While it may be just a reserve forest, the forest department is working on the lines of how safaris' are organised in the other national parks, in the state. 

 "First and foremost, to take care of the man-animal conflict, we have allocated Rs 7 crore Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and   (CAMPA) funds to construct 7 and 9 feet high wall to restrict the movement of animals, especially leopards into human habitation. The fencing will be done to give the forest area a sanctuary or reserve look. The principal aim is to create a world class leopard park with five solar powered tube wells in Jhalana," said forest minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar.
 
 Another long term proposal is to create an over pass on the Ghat-ki-Ghuni tunnel connecting Jhalana to Galta and the Nahargarh sanctuary so that the leopards can easily migrate to the forests of Nahargarh and have a wider area at their disposal. Leopards naturally have been migrating to the two areas but we plan to create a disturbance fee area so that the Leopards can safely transit from one area to another," said Khimsar.
 
 Besides that grasslands and marsh ponds would be developed at Jhalana and prey base increased to include the wild boars too. Add to that taking cognizance of the trend of night safaris' in Jhalana reserve forest, Khimsar said,   cameras have been installed at the entrance and they would be installed at certain locations inside the forest. Private cars are soon going to be restricted and gypsys are going to be managed by the forest department on a rooster basis, like they are done in the  .
 
 Spread over 33 sq km east of Jaipur, the Jhalana forest area is said to have 15-20 leopards. Located barely 7.7 km from the World Trade Park, the forest, over the years has become a favourite leopard sighting destination.
 
  According to the statistics available with forest department, the revenue that the forest department earned from Jhalana from March to November last year was Rs 15,10,535. But in the last three months from December to March 2017 the department has already generated a revenue of Rs 12,22,775 from leopard safari in the heart of the city. 
 
 
