Nagpur: Recreating the life and times of a maverick and an iconoclast is difficult. However, noted Marathi theatre artiste Atul Pethe excellently embodied the character of social reformer Raghunath Dhondo Karke in the play ‘Samajswasthya’, which was staged at Sai Sabhagruha, Shankar Nagar, on Sunday. The two-act play was presented by Natakghar, Pune.

 The name of the play is based on a Marathi Magazine Samaj Swasthya, which was published by Karve from mid 1927 until 1953. In it, Karve continually discussed issues of society's well being through use of contraceptives to prevent unwanted pregnancies and abortions. 
 
 The play, written by Ajit Dalvi, has been directed by Atul Pethe, who also plays the protagonist. The play revolves around the life incidents of Karve which brough change to the society. The story narrates how Karke was asked to stop writing 'obscene' articles for his magazine by the authorities of Wilson College, where he was a mathematics professor. The play showcased how Karve was arrested thrice in his lifetime, once over an article, the second, because of his reply to a reader of the magazine and the third time over an advertisement appearing in his publication. Pethe did well in bringing out the thoughts, philosophy and character of Karve, who wouldn't succumb to societal pressure. His close bond with wife Malati, played by actress Rajshree Sawant-Wad, was also one of the highlights of the plot and Sawant-Wad's acting complemented Pethe's and did justice to her acts. The play also depicted the role of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, who was Karve's lawyer and friend.
 
 The set mostly depicted a courtroom or Karve's living room, switched from scene to scene with ease. Light background music was infused into the narration to enhance the overall appeal of the play. An underlining current of comedy was constant among the narrative, making the play interesting and entertaining as well. 
 
 Staged over 30 times in Pune, the play was held for the first time in Nagpur on Saturday, and will be staged in Amravati, followed by Chandigarh. “In order to attain perfection, Pethe has convened over 3000 rehearsals and changed the script nearly 300 times,” informed secretary of Natak Ghar Subhada Fadnavis.
 
 
