Panaji: The merit list for the medicine and dentistry degree programmes was released on Wednesday by the directorate of technical education (DTE). Based on the high court’s interim orders, the list also includes around 125 aspirants who had missed the deadline to submit their application forms to DTE. But, the counselling for students for the medicine and dentistry programmes will not begin as scheduled on June 14 as the DTE is still awaiting for the court to complete its hearing, the next is to be held on Friday. The counselling will be carried out based on the court’s further orders. Over 2,000 aspirants have submitted their forms this year to join the medicine, dentistry, homeopathy and ayurveda degree programmes. The DTE has drawn two merit lists - one for students eligible for a medicine and dentistry seat and the second one for those eligible for admissions to homeopahty and ayurveda programmes. Around 125 other students from Goa, who had also answered the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET), approached the high court of Bombay at Goa earlier this week, after they missed the deadline to apply for the Goa seats with DTE, which refused to accept their forms. DTE officials said that based on the interim order, they have included the 125 students in the merit list, but have demarcated these students so that depending on the court’s future orders, it will be easy to identify the students from the rest of the aspirants. ‘Rounds of admission to be conducted shall be subject to the directives to be issued by honorable high court in this matter,’ the DTE has stated on the merit list released on Wednesday. The DTE had asked aspirants of the medicine and dentistry programmes to submit their admission forms along with aspirants of the other professional degree programmes like engineering. For medicine, dentistry, homeopathy and ayurveda courses, students were to only provide their NEET scores once the results of this test was declared. However, these 125 students said that they were unaware that they had to apply before the NEET scores were out.