GURUGRAM: The Haryana government has decided to take over   in   for three months, the unprecedented step coming in the wake of fears among parents about the safety of children who study on the   that witnessed a student’s murder on September 8.

 For the next three months, the private, CBSE-affiliated school will be run by the Gurgaon administration, officials said. The government takeover was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar when he visited the parents of Class 2 student   on Friday afternoon and announced a CBI probe into the boy’s murder.
 
 Gurgaon’s deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh will be in charge of the school. Singh said an officer will be appointed as administrator to look after non-academic affairs such as security, transport, etc. The faculty of the school will remain the same. “The administrator can further appoint officers to oversee academic and other affairs too,” Singh told TOI on Friday, adding he was yet to receive formal orders to take over the school.
 
 Asked if police would take over security of the school, Singh said, “The administrator will take a decision on this. As of now, it is an in-principle decision. The nitty-gritty still needs to be decided.”
 
 Ryan Bhondsi has a little over 1,000 students and parents of many of them have said they would rather skip a year than send their child back to school. But those in the tenth and twelfth classes cannot do so, and it’s them who are worried sick. The school is closed now and it’s not clear when it will reopen. Sandhya Patnaik, whose 10-year-old daughter goes to Ryan Bhondsi, said she thought the government’s step would give parents some confidence. “I can’t trust the school authorities any more. But I trust Gurgaon police and the district administration. I will definitely send my daughter to school when it reopens,” she said.
 
 A Class XII student of the school said classmates were relieved as this meant the school would reopen. “Our curriculum is not yet complete. We were extremely worried about the board exam and the   affiliation of the school,” the student said. 
 
 But some parents said it didn’t matter who was taking charge, they could just not send their kids back to the school again. “Even if the school is now being taken over by the district administration, there be a lot of stress among students when they join. I’m thinking of moving my son to another school, even if he has to repeat a year,” said Anita. 
 
 A three-member panel appointed by the district administrator had suggested earlier this week that the school should either be de-recognised or heavy penalties should be imposed on it for lapses. The panel found major lapses like non-teaching staff not verified by police, a large breach in the boundary wall of the school and grilles and panes missing from windows of the washroom where Pradhyumn was murdered, among others.
 
 
