HYDERABAD: It took   just a fortnight to transform the sorrow of Glasgow into joy on a bright Sunday in Seoul. Denied by a hair's breadth in the world championships not long ago, Sindhu turned the tide in her favour to outlast   and become the first Indian to clinch the   title.

 Sunday's final looked just like a sequel to the 110-minute final in the Scottish city - Sindhu and her Japanese rival were involved in another epic energy-sapping one-hour, 23-minute duel with the lanky Indian finally prevailing with a 22-20, 11-21, 21-18 scoreline.
 
 A player not known to display too much emotion, Sindhu lifted her arms in delight after defeating the Japanese world champion. “It's a very good match and I am happy to beat her. Both of us fought hard as anyone wants to win the final. Maybe it's sweet revenge in the end,” Sindhu told TOI. 
 
 Complementing Okuhara for fighting hard, Sindhu said that each point was important. “With players like Okuhara you have to expect long rallies. I realised that I needed to be very patient and avoided making mistakes, said Sindhu, who pocketed around R 29 lakh with this victory.
 
 By making a splendid recovery in the first game Sindhu made her inten clear. Trailing 18-20 with Okuhara jus a point away from victory, Sindhu came up with a four-point burst to surprise her rival. Change of courts and the drift (air movement) on the court affected Sindhu's rhythm in the second game. The Indian gave up after Okuhara secured a 12-6 lead. “I was not able to control the shuttle in the second game. It was a huge lead to bridge even if I had tried. So I lost easily,” she said.
 
 Starting from the better side of court Sindhu started hitting hard in the third game. The ploy worked and the Indian was leading 11-5 at the change of courts. A determined Okuhara came back strongly and after the 15th point she made the Indian toil hard. Sindhu was in no mood to give up. She covered the court well and whenever she got a chance she packed her drives with a lot of force. Though Okuhara closed in at 19-17, Sindhu kept her composure and with a deft drop she moved to 20-17. Okuhara saved a match point but she fired the next wide off the court to let Sindhu savour a well-deserved win.
 
 “I had lost to her after leading 19-17 in the World Championship but I kept telling myself that next point is important,” Sindhu said.
 
 Incidentally, this is Sindhu's third Super Series title and India's fifth this year. Apart from this title, Sindhu also won the India Open. Kidambi Srikanth bagged the Indonesia and Australian Opens and Sai Praneeth triumphed in Singapore.
 
 “Good to see Sindhu regain confidence because the match at the World Championships was a little tiring and Sindhu was a little low on confidence. But this win would definitely give her back the confidence,” chief coach Pullela Gopichand said.
 
 
 
 
 Delighted with Sindhu's victory, her father PV Ramana said that he gave her three important tips before the final. “She called me at 6 AM today. I told her to follow three tips. First is to change the shuttle after a long rally. With Okuhara we know that there will be long rallies and if you take a new bird it will move fast. Secondly, I told her to push Okuhara back as the Japanese girl is a short player and can play better in the forecourt. Thirdly, I told her to play more smashes and be careful on the backhand side,” her father Rama told TOI.
 
