LAMBI: Badal nahin Badlav – the   Aadmi Party’s poll slogan for change in chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s constituency sums up the electoral contest in   near  . The constituency, which has been electing Badal senior since 1997, reveals an undercurrent of dissent against the incumbent.
 
  The family’s ancestral village of Badal resembles a European village with pine tree lined boulevards. It is picturesque with its landscaped water reservoirs and roadside benches.
  
  With access to underground sewerage and water lines, there is nothing the village doesn’t have, residents said.
  
  Yet the   here said   is a strong contender. “There is no challenging the claims of Badals that they have brought development – not just here but everywhere in  .
  
  But this time people want change,” said  , a resident, pointing to AAP as a credible option. Just a few kilometres from Badal, Kolianwali village   orange flags with ruling Shiromani Akali Dal’s symbol on every house. But here, too, the sentiment is much the same. “Who should we vote for? They are all the same. But this time we have an option,” said one of the residents.
  
  AAP’s candidate Jarnail Singh, former journalist infamous for hurling a shoe at Congress leader  , is banking heavily on anti-incumbency against Badals. Taking a break from a roadshow Jarnail told   that people are appreciating AAP’s development plank.
  
  “They know we have delivered a corruption-free government in Delhi. They are tired of Badals and their only option so far has been Captain (Amarinder Singh of Congress). Now they have AAP,” he said. AAP has pulled out all the stops in Lambi. Delhi chief minister   held five rallies in the constituency on Friday last week. “He will do five more,” said Jarnail Singh, brushing aside SAD and Congress’ attack on him for being an “outsider”.
  
  “They are saying this because they haven’t found anything against me. I am a Lahori. Here in this constituency everybody has come from   and settled here after Partition. My grandparents went to Delhi. That’s the only difference,” he said. AAP is openly accusing Congress of connivance with Badals to ensure the latter’s victory in Lambi.
  
  Congress, however, has lobbed the same charge against AAP. A late entrant in the poll race in Lambi, Congress has angered some of its own in the segment by fielding Captain Amarinder Singh.
  
  A clear giveaway of the unrest within the party is the entourage of Raninder Singh, Captain’s son. As he campaigned tirelessly on behalf of his father, Raninder, Yuvraj or   as he is fondly called, took along three disappointed Lambi ticket aspirants in his car. He regaled the crowd with anecdotes just like his father.
  
  But many in Raninder’s own camp talked about the “silent vote”. “The voters are not saying anything. They are silent. We know they will vote for AAP,” said a Congress worker, who did not wish to be identified. 
