MUMBAI: To ensure quick and swifter response to crisis calls, the city fire brigade has started installing android-based   (Global Positioning System) and GIS ( ) device on its vehicles. With the device, the exact location of the vehicles can be easily tracked during any emergency , and those in the vicinity can be easily diverted to the spot.

 The force has 264 vehicles, which includes fire engines, jeeps and also officials' vehicles. GPS has already been installed on 45 vehicles, fire bri gade officials said. Gradually it will be installed on all other vehicles. “ Although it has been installed, we plan to start using all the devices simultaneously . For now, we still working on it and making its functioning as smooth as possible,“ said a fire brigade official.
 
 Chief fire officer PS Rahangdale said this would ensure minimal human interfe rence and once the fire control room receives an emergency call, vehicle nearest to the incident spot would be diverted towards it. “We are in the advanced stage of getting the command and control system ready at the Byculla headquarters. At this control room, we would have screens put shows location of vehicles,“ Rahangdale said. The device will also give the fire vehicle the shortest and least congested route to the incident site. In 2015, when a fire broke out at Gokul Niwas building in Kalabdevi area of south Mumbai-four senior civic officials, including the chief fire officer, lost their lives in it--fire vehicles faced difficulties as the route taken by them was congested. In August last year, a proposal was mooted to introduce an integrated command and control system at a cost of Rs 60 crore and the civic standing committee gave its approval. By June this year all   are likely to have the toughpads installed said fire officials and the command and control room too would be ready by then.
 
 Fire breaks out in Dongri building
 
 Residents of a four storey building in Dongri area of south Mumbai were evacuated a fire broke out on the terrace around 9pm Sunday. Four fire engines and three jumbo water tankers were immediately rushed to the spot. There were no reports of any injury. 
 
