BENGALURU: After having exposed the previous BJP regime’s close ties with the mining lobby,   himself seems to be in a spot this time around. 

 The Special Investigation Team ( ) which arrested IAS officer Gangaram Baderiya in the   involving Janthakal Mining company has summoned the JD(S) state president to appear before it on Thursday.
 
 Kumaraswamy told reporters in Yadgir he has got an anticipatory bail to avoid imminent arrest. “The anticipatory bail is for a period of seven days. It is an interim bail granted to me by the judiciary. I have been served a notice to appear before the SIT and will do so on Thursday,” he said.
 
 Claiming he is being targeted by the Congress government ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, Kumaraswamy said the government machinery is working overtime to harass him. “The SIT is filled with people from the state government. They are being ordered to ensure I am behind bars for at least an hour, if not a day,” he alleged.
 
 Kumaraswamy claimed with the assembly polls around the corner, the Congress and BJP are afraid of him being ahead of the national parties in strengthening the JD(S). “They intend to thwart me through such cases. But the efforts will not succeed,” he said.
 
 Earlier, at the special Lokayukta court in Bengaluru, Kumaraswamy was granted the interim anticipatory bail after submitting a bond of Rs 5 lakh and two sureties. 
 
 Kumaraswamy has been ordered by the court to appear before the investigating officer (I/O) whenever summoned and not to leave the country without prior permission of the trial court.
 
 
 
 
 Kumaraswamy, who is in the dock for allegedly putting pressure on Baderiya to clear files pertaining to Janthakal within two hours, said he had nothing to do with the case and there no such orders were issued from his office during his tenure as CM. Baderiya has claimed in his file notings of 2006-07 as director of the mines and geology department that there was immense pressure on him from the CMO to clear the Janthakal file when Kumaraswamy was in office. 
 
 
