CHANDIGARH: It is certainly going to be a fun weekend for human’s best friends- dogs, with a two-day dog festival scheduled this weekend at the  . Apart from the fest named Doggievent,   Association will be organizing an adoption drive on Sunday to find home for more than 30 desi breed dogs, thus making the weekend a festive affair for the dogs.

 The dog festival being organized at the Leisure Valley on Saturday and Sunday will offer various activities like games, pool, medical checkup, food feast among others. Various groups who have partnered to provide these facilities at the event.
 
  from Furever Friends, the organisation which has signed up to give medical facilities to the dogs, shared, “It is the first of its kind event for the dogs in the city. We have only seen such events for humans but never for our four-legged friends. We will be providing free rabies vaccines, medical check ups, home-based first-aid kits by professional veterinary surgeons.”
 
 Furever Friends will be catering to both pets and stray dogs at the event. “Our services are free and since our main focus has always been needy dogs, we will be looking forward to see them at the event,” Luthra said.
 
 He also mentioned that the the event is being organized by LaFeria and Dogizza. “There is some shopping festival which is providing this free area for doggie event at the leisure valley,” Luthra said.
 
 Dogizza will provide pool, play area, run area and homemade food for dogs. They will also give nutrition related tips at the event. Dogmatrix, another partner in the event, will be giving dog training and behavioural tips.
 
 With a motive to ensure better human-dog relationship and to find homes for Indian breeds of dogs, Panchkula Animal Welfare association will also organize Adoptathon. The event will aim at making people aware about the benefits of Indian dogs over breed dogs. The event is also aimed at educating people about tackling dog bites. It will take place in Town park, Sector 5 Panchkula on Sunday 4.30pm onwards.
 
