PATHANKOT: Congress nominee for   Lok Sabha byelection   meeting BJP ticket aspirant Kavita Khanna at the latter’s residence in Pathankot on Saturday has given enough fodder to politicians, who are trying to derive meaning of this ‘courtesy call’.

 “We also have our personal lives.   is a friend of Vinod and he called on me to express his condolences,” said Kavita while talking to TOI on Saturday. Immediately after the photograph of Jakhar and Kavita’s meeting went viral on social media, the rumour mill started to promulgate gossips and other unsubstantiated claims, with many seeing the meeting as ‘Congress party’s attempt to woo BJP leaders’.
 
 “Vinod Khanna had died several months ago, why didn’t Jakhar expressed condolences earlier, and if he did then why he called on Kavita before beginning his election campaign,” questioned a local BJP leader, who didn’t want to give his name.
 
 However, Kavita, who went back to Mumbai for a religious ceremony after meeting Jakhar, claimed that there was no politics in their meeting. She said that she was a BJP member and would return to Gurdaspur to attend BJP’s rally scheduled for September 26. “I will perform any duty assigned to me with full responsibility by my party leadership,” she maintained. Meanwhile, Jakhar couldn’t be contacted for his comments, however, his personal secretary said that, “It was just a courtesy call and nothing more.”
 
 Meanwhile, AAP candidate Suresh Khajuria inaugurated his office in Pathankot. “We are reaching out to common people, telling them of the poor performance of both SAD-BJP combine and Congress government and what is AAP’s vision for them.”
 
 On the other hand, SAD-BJP’s joint nominee Swaran Salaria denied chief minister Amarinder Singh’s claims that he had demanded ticket from the Congress. He said that the senior leadership of the BJP, including BJP president Amit Shah, finance minister   as well as Prime Minister, could visit Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency to campaign for the BJP. 
 
