PATNA: The much-awaited   facility was jointly launched by   and   (UDHD) minister Maheshwar Hazari and Patna mayor Afzal Imam here on Thursday. The   ( ) has also roped in local artists to create awareness about this facility through street plays. 

 Initially, the facility will cover 52 wards in four circles - New Capital, Kankarbagh, Bankipore and Patliputra. Tenders have already been invited for the rest of the 20 wards in   and Azimabad circles.
 
 PMC commissioner Abhsihek Singh said door-to-door garbage collection was necessary for maintaining cleanliness in the city. UDHD principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad said launch of the facility was a big achievement for PMC. 
 
 The project has been launched on a public-private partnership mode. While sanitation workers will collect garbage from every household, there will be a supervisor and a co-ordinator in each ward to coordinate between individual households and sanitation workers.
 
 While Patna-based Nishka, a private firm, will carry out the work in New Capital and Patliputra circles, Patheya, a Delhi-based agency, will carry out the task in Kankarbagh and Bankipore circles. "We have started the work on a pilot basis in 16 wards," the PMC commissioner said, adding every household, except the ones living below poverty line, will have to pay Rs 60 per month to avail the facility.
 
 "Those owning small shops along roads less than 10 feet wide will have to pay Rs 60 per month. Big shopkeepers, on the other hand, will be charged Rs 300 per month. Restaurants, hotels and hostels will have to pay Rs 1,000 per month and three and four star hotels Rs 10,000 per month. Commercial establishments, government offices, banks, insurance companies and coaching institutes will be charged Rs 1,000 month," Singh added. Hospitals with 50 beds will have to pay Rs 3,000 per month and the ones with more than 50 beds will be charged Rs 10,000 per month. Clinics and dispensaries, on the other hand, will pay Rs 1,000 per month to avail the facility, he added.
 
 While the PMC will provide a financial assistance of Rs 7 crore to the two agencies engaged in the work, the agencies will return Rs 3 crore to the civic body in next two years. "Since the agencies may initially face difficulties in generating revenue, we are providing them financial aid. While they will return us Rs 3 crore, the remaining Rs 4 crore will be borne by the PMC," Singh added.
 
 This is not the first time that PMC has taken such an initiative. In 2010, A2Z Infrastructure had signed a pact with the civic body for door-to-door garbage collection from nine wards. 
 
 However, the firm stopped its service because of non-realisation of Rs 7.5 crore from the civic body. The PMC commissioner, however, claimed funds won't be an issue this time as an escrow account has been opened and 60% of money would be automatically transferred to the agencies in case of delay from PMC side.
 
 
