BHOPAL: All 228 eligible MLAs from   voted for the Presidential elections at the assembly on Monday. And they did it in quick time — the bulk of the votes came at the rate of 45 seconds each, which was faster than the Election Commission’s expectations.

 Minister Narottam Mishra, who was disqualified by Election Commission in a paid-news case, couldn’t vote. The MP assembly has 230 members. One seat is vacant after the death of   Prem Singh. Mishra did not turn up at the assembly on the first day of the monsoon session. His petition to be allowed to vote in the Presidential election was rejected by a Delhi high court double bench on Saturday.
 
 Chief minister   and Speaker Sitasharan Sharma reached polling station in the assembly at 10:25am to cast their votes. Soon after dropping his ballot in the box, CM Chouhan tweeted: “All the best to Shri Ram Nath Kovind JI for the #PresidentialElection. Am confident you will receive huge support & emerge victorious.” Speaking to reporters, Chouhan said, “Everyone is aware that Kovind will win with an impressive majority.”
 
 The voters included 166 members from ruling BJP, 56 from Congress, four from BSP and three Independents. Voting was quick and peaceful as MLAs started queuing up at 10am. Many were seen sharing pleasantries and cracking jokes to pass the time. BJP MLA from Bhind, Narayan Singh Kushwah, was the first to vote, followed by Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh. 
 
 Ajay Singh appealed to all MLAs, not just Congress, “to listen to their conscience and vote”. While BSP has openly announced it was voting for Opposition candidate Meira Kumar, sources say the Independents were likely to back Kovind. BJP MLA from Mandsaur assembly seat, Yashpal Singh Sisodia, told TOI, “It is voting by secret ballot, so anything can happen when it comes to independents. For all other MLAs it’s loyalty towards party that comes foremost.”
 
 In the first hour, 85 MLAs had voted — that’s an impressive 42 seconds per vote. They included Cabinet ministers Jayant Malaiyya, Gauri Shankar Shejwar, Rajendra Shukla, Maya Singh, Jaibhan Singh Pavaiyya, Archana Chitnis, Gauri Shankar Bisen and ministers of state Vishwas Sarang and Lal Singh Arya. Seventy-six-year-old BJP MLA from Teonthar, Ramakant Tiwari, came to cast his ballot despite being unwell. He was supported by two men.
 
 Voting was faster than the Election Commission’s expectation of 71 per hour. Mobile phones were not permitted inside the polling station. EC officials said about 50 MLAs left their mobiles outside the polling station while the big ‘netas’ left it with their securitymen.
 
 Congress MLA from Karera Shankuntala Khatik — who was caught in a controversy after a video went viral allegedly showing her inciting a mob to burn down a police station during the farmers’ agitation in June — also cast her vote. She was on the run for several weeks before Supreme Court ordered a stay on an arrest warrant issued against her by a local court.
 
 By 1pm, all two legislators — BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and BSP MLA from Dimni Balveer Singh Dandotiya — had voted. Vijayvargiya arrived at 2pm and cast his vote. He said he was in Delhi till late last night and decided to go for Mahakaal ‘darshan’ at Ujjain on Monday morning since it was a “Sawaan Somvar” (the second Monday in the auspicious month of Shravan)”. Minister for forests Gauri Shankar Shejwar came to Vijayvargiya’s support, saying: “He is not late. Voting time is till 5pm.” Dandotiya came by Shatabdi and was the last to cast his vote. 
 
