HYDERABAD: While   Ola and Uber battled the effects of the ongoing cabbies' strike for the past week, startups in the transport tech sector had much to cheer about.

 Many city-based transport tech startups reported a 25% to 30% spike in the number of daily users, while many others managed to bring new users on board.
 
 “We had around 10,000 users a week, but we recorded 25,000 new users from Hyderabad in the past four days alone. Existing users are also using our app more times in a day,“ said Anurag Rathor, founder and CEO of Zify, which has developed an on-demand ride-sharing and  . “The occupancy rates in cars available for pooling have also gone up from 1.8 to 2.7. Most cars are now running at full capacity. This kind of spike in usage and the number of downloads is usually achieved only through intense marketing campaigns,“ said Rathor.
 
 The story is no different for  , which witnessed an 18% jump in the number of downloads of its app.“The occupancy rate in our 72 air-conditioned mini shuttles has gone up by 20%. From an average occupancy rate of 73% in the last three weeks of December, the figure now stands at 90%,“ said Prasanth Garapati, co-founder and CEO of Commut, which operates a fleet of mini shuttles on fixed routes connecting residential hubs such as LB Nagar, Uppal, Secunderabad and Kompally to locations in the IT hub such as Madhapur, Mindspace and Waverock.
 
 The last time Commut witnessed such a hike in the number of users was during the floods in Hyderabad, when many commuters were forced to look for alternatives due to the exorbitant surge prices imposed by cab aggregator services, he added.
 
 HI-TEC According to Mayank Chawla, co-founder and COO of Easy Commute, another bus booking app, office-goers in the city are increasingly turning to the nominally-priced fleet of mini buses and shuttles operated by startups.
 
 “We provide mini shuttles with fares similar to the ones being charged by an air-conditioned RTC bus. However, unlike an RTC bus, these shuttles are not overcrowded and are more reliable since you get confirmations on the app. The entire process is cashless and users pay their ticket fares on the app. The strike has caused a lot of inconvenience to office-goers, but has made them turn to buses. We have seen a 10% jump in the number of new users,“ said Chawla.
 
