The DDMS P   became one of the first few schools in the city to have a state-of-the-art Indoor Sports Complex on its campus. 

 The new facility was opened earlier this week, alongside the inauguration of the three day CBSE Cluster VII Girls' Basketball Tournament.
 
 While Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director, Apollo Group of Hospital was the chief guest for the event, other dignitaries like  , chairman of the DDMS P   Educational Academy Chairman and Narsimha Rao, secretary of the academy, were also present.
 
 Principal of the school, Anjali Razdan, delivered the welcome address and congratulated all the participants who qualified for the tournament and wished them success. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, the chief guest lauded the school for providing holistic education to its students. 
 
 She encouraged enthusiastic athletes to carry on the rich legacy of the Indian value system as they cruise their way into the international arena. 
 
 The chief guest also paid her tribute to the (late) P Obul Reddy who was an outstanding human being.She wished all the participants good luck for the tournament and also their future endeavours.
 
 The chairman and secretary expressed their gratitude to the family of P Obul Reddy for their extended support towards construction of the Indoor Sports Complex and also wished good luck to all the participants.
 
 15-yr-old outshines others in   championship
 
 As many as 1,000 contestants partici pated in the Sudoku Championship organised by The Times of India on September 20. 
 
 The championship comprised of two rounds. After the first round, the top 50 participants were short-listed for the final round. While 53-year-old Poonam Gandhi emerged as the winner of the contest, it was Karthik, a Class 10 student of Global Edge who grabbed the limelight as he emerged as he secured the second position in the championship.
 
 The 15-year-old now has a chance to participate in the World Sudoku Championship to be held in Bengaluru in October.
 
 Abhisar   secured the third position in the closely-fought contest.
 
