CHANDIGARH: A day after leading Congress to a massive victory in Punjab, veteran leader Captain Amarinder Singh was on Sunday unanimously elected the new leader of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP), after which he met the governor and staked claim to form the government.

 The scion of the erstwhile Patiala royalty will be sworn in as the chief minister at a ceremony at 10am here on March 16.
 
 After meeting the governor, Amarinder told mediapersons that a few cabinet members will also take oath of office along with him, but did not give any details. He also did not reply to a question on the role of cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had joined Congress days before the February 4 polls, in his government.
 
 Amarinder said he will meet Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on March 14 to discuss and finalize names of his cabinet colleagues.
 
 The AICC secretary in charge of Punjab affairs, Asha Kumari, told mediapersons that the election of Capt Amarinder as the CLP leader took place at Congress Bhawan, where all newly-elected MLAs passed a one-line resolution authorizing AICC president Sonia Gandhi, and Rahul to take a decision on the new CLP leader.
 
 Asha Kumari then called up Rahul to apprise him of the CLP decision. She later informed the MLAs that Rahul had proposed the name of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Amarinder as the new CLP leader. The Congress MLAs then unanimously elected Captain as their leader, she added.
 
 Apart from Asha, other AICC leaders present at the CLP meeting included Ashok Gehlot, head of the Congress screening committee for Punjab elections, and Harish Chaudhary, AICC secretary.
 
 At the meeting, outgoing CLP leader Charanjit Singh Channi read out a statement thanking the people of Punjab for their support.
 
 Later, Amarinder, accompanied by Gehlot, Asha Kumari and Chaudhary, went to Raj Bhawan to meet Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore and formally staked claim to form the next government. The governor congratulated Captain Amarinder on the Congress’s victory and formally invited him to form the next government.
 
 
 
 
 Punjab Cabinet recommended to the Punjab governor on Sunday to dissolve the 14th Punjab Vidhan Sabha. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting of council of ministers chaired by Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal at Punjab Bhawan here in the afternoon. A formal notification was later issued by the chief secretary.
 
 
