Currently riding high on the success of  , for which she sang Neenillade, Bengaluru-based singer   says that music in the Kannada film industry has been on an upward swing. In a quick chat with us, she tells us why   from Mass Leader was a challenge and how she has grown into a mature singer. Excerpts:

 
 
 The whole experience was completely different. Aabida is a different genre altogether that the Kannada music industry will experience for the first time. It was very challenging for me as I had to render an Arabian flavour to the song; I had to do a lot of voice control in order to get the exact tone. The song has microscopic details and I am glad that music director   has extracted the best from me. He guided me very well.
 
 
 
 I am a born Bengalurean. My mum’s family is musically gifted, but no one in the family pursued music as a career. Back when she was young, music wasn’t a career option. I consider myself fortunate enough as I was able to pursue a career in music. It was my grandfather,  , who trained me.
 
 
 
 Absolutely! I was very clear that I wanted to do playback singing. As a child, I wanted to sing for movies — there were no second thoughts about it. I consider   my role model.
 
 
 
 Both are different kinds of experiences and both give me a different kind of a rush. While performing on stage, when you hear the audience cheer for you, the adrenaline is high. In a studio, mastering a song gives me a kick. Once the song is recorded, I listen to it and ask the music director whether he is OK with it or not. If he is fine with it, that itself is a motivation for me.
 
 
 
 The music scene in the industry is on an upward graph. I have worked with so many people in the industry; everyone has their own style of working. Personally, it has changed me as an individual. I have become more confident and mature — my career graph has seen growth. I’ve sung many different genres — romantic, duets, item songs — which gives me confidence as a singer. Now, when I am offered a new song, I feel, ‘OK, bring it on’ (laughs).
 
 
 
 I am extremely thrilled right now. Ondu Motteya Kathe has been receiving such wonderful reviews. Then, Aabida was released recently. I’ve also sung for a Tulu film, which will be released soon. 
 
