CHENNAI: From the day they first notice the symptoms,   patients lose up to four months before they seek medical help. And that is often too late. 

 A survey undertaken among 782 patients with gastric cancer in the government general hospital here showed that all of them had sought medical help, on an average, 116 days after the initial symptoms. 
 
 While around 37% of the patients did not consider the symptoms serious enough to consult a doctor, 25% cited social and cultural reasons, and 13% economic difficulties.
 
 Dr  , a postgraduate student at  , undertook the survey to investigate why 90% of the people continued to allow cancer to progress to an advanced stage despite awareness programmes. “In countries like Japan and Korea, prognosis is made early as people seek medical help in the initial stages. I wanted to calculate the average delay and barriers,” said Dr Rehman.
 
 The paper will be among 22 research papers from India to be presented at an international conference on gastric cancer in Korea in March. 
 
 Experts estimate the incidence of gastric cancer in Tamil Nadu is 12.2 for every 1 lakh of people. Factors that increase risk of stomach cancer include cooking in reused oil, a diet high on salty food and low on fruits and vegetables, a family history of stomach cancer and smoking. 
 
 While symptoms may vary from extreme pain in the abdomen to vomiting blood, most patients start off with seemingly benign indications. In the survey, around 30% of the patients reported bloating sensation in the stomach as the first sign, followed by indigestion (18.9%) and heart burn (16.1%). Patients who sought help the earliest were those who had problems swallowing. “Even they presented only after 40 days,” pointed Dr Rehman, adding that symptoms depended on which part of the stomach the tumour was located in. 
 
 Although an endoscopy – in which an instrument is introduced into the body to give a view of the internal parts – can pick up signs of gastric cancer, the procedure isn’t included in routine tests. “Doctors have to pick up other hints like the patients’ age profile, his or her lifestyle and family history to detect the disease early, but for this to happen, patients need to come to hospitals at the first sign of trouble,” said Dr S M Chandramohan, former head of the department of surgical gastroenterology at MMC, who guided the survey.
 
 If the symptoms persist for more than two weeks and the usual medication doesn’t help, endoscopy should be considered seriously, he said. The doctor is among handful of senior specialists who have been reaching out to the public to spread awareness on gastric cancer. On Sunday, he organised an essay writing competition for children on cancer. “This is just a start. We have a long way to go before people say no to cancer and yes to being treated,” he said.
 
 
