Got some holiday time coming up? If your usual plan includes a sightseeing-packed itinerary with crazy running around from place-to-place, whirlwind shopping and eat-all-you-can fun, it’s time to take a step back from that and give yourself a real break. In a burgeoning trend, more people are choosing to go on ‘well-cations’ or   vacations that focus on bringing your health back on track. Blame this on the rise in chronic diseases and   levels or the stress of our technology-driven lives, but this is a segment that is only getting to be more popular. As per a report, the segment of wellness tourism is expected to cross $650 billion globally by the end of 2017. Here are a few of these healthy breaks that focus on personal rejuvenation...
 
 
  
  
 It’s no longer about that luxe lounging by the resort poolside. Folks are now taking up rigorous activities that will get them to bust the flab. How about some rowing and altitude trekking?
 
  
  
 Losing weight is usually top of the mind for everyone and if you can’t manage to do it in the usual course of the work week, embark on a getaway just to do so. New resorts are increasingly marketing themselves as health sanctuaries that offer weight loss and tone up bootcamps for guests as the major part of the travel agenda. You have group pilates and aqualates, yoga group sessions and spinning. Not only are the activities laced with energy, but it’s also fun to participate surrounded by people who happily want to do the same.
 
 
  
  
 This time get out of the usual commute. Another way to get active on your break is to do an entire cycling holiday where you map a coast, woody mountain route or seaside village trail — all on your bike. It also allows you to explore on foot. 
 
 
  
  
 For busy executives, checking into a wellness spa retreat is just what the doctor ordered. This includes everything from hot stone therapies to  , body wraps, exotic   and peels that focus on restoring your glow back. You also have harmony healing, where special energy chimes are placed on the body and the ‘sound’ emitted is said to be calming.
 
 
  
  
 Hotels and resorts are also creating complete cleansing diets that are solely meant to improve digestion, increase bowel health, create better hormonal balance and put your immunity levels back on track. Indulgence here means low-cal meals, cold-pressed juices, ayurvedic meals and other nutritive fare.
 
 
  
  
 In addition to the fitness and skin detox programs, wellness breaks also come with a side serving of learning — such as lessons on making healthy food. The itinerary packs in a daily   where chefs teach guests how to make flavoursome food minus the usual trappings. The food may be prepared local-style, where a visit to the local market is included. 
 
  
  
 The term is defined as travel that is done for the purpose of increasing one’s well-being through physical, psychological and spiritual activities and includes hospitality, health and medicine, fitness and beauty.
 
 
 
 
 
