Besides the KIIFB, finance minister   has placed his hopes on the   as well which will be rolled out soon. “If not Kerala (a big consumer state), who else will benefit from GST,“ he replied when he was asked how much he expects the GST to help the state's economy in the coming fiscal.

 Isaac was taking part in 'FM on Trial', an interactive session with a panel of experts, organized by The Times of India in association with Kairali TV here. Isaac, who attended the programme soon after budget presentation said he was happy to focus on gender issues and issues of the marginalised along with the thrust given to large scale  .
 
 
 
 
 Speaking about the delays in implementation of projects in the state, founder CEO of Technopark G Vijayaraghavan said, “Raising fund is not an issue in the state, but, the mode of implementation of the projects has been patchy .“
 
 Meanwhile, former planning board member C P John said that different strategies are adopted for finance for projects in the state in the budget. “It is to be seen, whether it will be practical or virtual. There is need for proper plan for every project,“ said John.
 
 Mentioning the introduction of NRI chitty of KSFE in budget, both KSFE chairman Philipose Thomas and financial expert Mary George said that if NRI funds can be mobilized, the fund allocation through KIIFB is a practical decision.
 
 Assistant professor at Central University of Kerala Dr P Shyama Prasad pointed out that the budget does not mention about any allocation for the migrant labourers. Isaac accepted the criticism and said there would have been more consideration for migrant labour issues.
 
 When Transgender activist Sheetal Shyam said that the fund allocated for TGs in the last budget was used for other projects by social justice department, Isaac promised a probe into the issue and a workshop including senior TG activists to chalk out an action plan for utilising fund meant for them.
 
 “The promise in budget for right to internet access will help to reduce the digital divide among the students, but, more clarity is needed how the government is going to implement infrastructure facilities are not clear,“ said Dr Meena T Pillai, director, centre for cultural studies, Kerala University . President of Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industries E M Najeeb, Environmentalist Thanal Jaykumar and Credai chairman S N Raghuchandran Nair, KCCI vice chairman Shibu Prabhakaran, Gynaecologist Anitha Pillai and RJ Shilpa were also part of the debate.
 
