NEW DELHI: A beaming Amit Shah called the BJP's big victories in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand "the victories of  's leadership." 

 "It is now proven that since Independence, Modiji is the most popular Prime Minister of this country…the poor of the country love him," Shah said, unequivocally.
 
 Shah also said victories in these states are "the most defining victories for the BJP since the division of the states" and "all due to Modi's pro-poor schemes and pro-development and pro-performance agenda."
 
 Demonetisation, he claimed, had absolutely no negative role to play in the elections. "In fact this proves the masses and the poor of India are on the side of demonetization," he said.
 
 "Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi thoroughly criticized the note ban at every rally, but it has been proved that the people stand together with the PM on demonetization," Shah said.
 
 The BJP President wanted to draw specific attention to the BJP's performance in Amethi and Rae Bareli.
 
 "Of 10 seats, we are winning 6 seats by big margins and this is making us very happy, we didn't do well here in 2014. But from now, politics will take a new direction in UP," he said
 
 The BJP President also said this is a "great, new era for UP since independence", an era when he believes UP will "grow like never before."
 
 Shah refused to be drawn into questions about who the BJP will name as chief minister of the state - the party famously didn't name one. The joke was 'Let's just assume   is the candidate.' 
 
 Asked if he would be UP CM candidate, Shah replied that he had enough work on his plate and he wasn't a registered voter in the state. 
 
 "We will decide who will lead the 4 states, CM candidates will be discussed in the Parliamentary board meeting tomorrow. The party will name UP CM candidate on the basis of his/her qualification," he said.
 
 The BJP president, who has had a big role to play in 'social engineering' in Uttar Pradesh, also said the BJP is confident it will win in Manipur and Goa as well, where it has switched through the day from being neck and neck with the Congress or leading.
 
 "Even though we are losing in Punjab (the BJP has already lost) our vote share increased by about 30 percent more," he said, adding that he may not be entirely precise with the numbers. "We accept our loss in Punjab, though, Modiji has congratulated Amarinder ji," he said.
 
 As for Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and perhaps Goa and Manipur, Shah insisted the BJP will accomodate alliance partners in the state governments even if the BJP alone wins a majority.
 
 
 
