AHMEDABAD: A city-based advocate got a peculiar case, where the a woman approached him to send a   to her lesbian live-in partner for her alleged harassment over several years. The   had undergone a   ( ), albeit unsuccessfully, a few years ago. 

 Speaking to the media at the office of legal activist Rajendra Shukla on Thursday, Chhaya (name changed), 46, said that she knew Mita (name changed), now 49, as they grew up together in Surendranagar district. Mita married and has two kids, a son and a daughter. In 2000, her husband died after which she pursued Chhaya, then 29 and unmarried, romantically.
 
 Mita took on the role of breadwinner with her government job and Chhaya assumed the duties of a wife, raising the kids and managing the house. In 2004, the affirmed a ‘maitri karar’ (agreement to live together) on Rs 100 stamp paper.
 
 “Everything went well up to the wedding of Mita’s son three years ago. Mita was domineering and would behave badly, but I had severed ties with my family to be with her. After her son’s wedding, there was a major shift as they were three — she, her son and daughter-in-law — and I was isolated. It was also around the same time when Mita regularly visited a clinic in Bengaluru for a sex change as she wanted to be a man,” Chhaya said.
 
 Her decision was the last straw in their relationship, as Chhaya was not prepared for it. She claimed that the operation went unsuccessful despite hormone therapy and SRS. She tried to break free but was allegedly threatened by the agreement that prevented her from separation ‘till death do them apart’.
 
 “I was tired of the constant physical and mental harassment and one and a half years ago I ran away and came to Vatva. I lived with distant relatives and did odd jobs. Mita, however, found out and pursued me here, despite me telling her that she could lead three lives —as a wife, a same-sex partner and now a man — but she should leave me alone. She recently tried to implicate me in a police case, after which I decided to seek legal recourse,” she said.
 
 Rajendra Shukla, legal activist, told TOI that a notice was sent to Mita stating that the agreement in the first place is void ab initio (invalid from the outset) and cannot be treated as binding on Chhaya. “We are also trying to get the victim protection as she fears for her safety after the recent incident,” he said.
 
