LUCKNOW: Pending since four years, the vigilance enquiry against district inspector of schools ( ),   has finally been completed and submitted to the high court. In the report, director, vigilance Bhanu Pratap Singh has found Tripathi guilty of amassing wealth disproportionate to his known income. 

 The report, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that Tripathi’s legitimate income from November 28, 1997 till August 31, 2012 amounts to Rs 99,10,488. It was found that Tripathi made a total spending of Rs 1,56,72,764 on his family and in buying movable and immovable assets during the above period and the expenditure was found to be 56.14% more than his income. The report was submitted to principal secretary, vigilance Debashish Panda on December 27, 2016. 
 
 The inquiry officer in his report has made a recommendation to grant permission for launching prosecution against Tripathi under sections 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The section amounts to criminal misconduct by a public servant for which he will be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.
 
 Tripathi came under scanner in 2012 when complaints of irregularities in affiliation, appointments,  , and others was lodged against him by Bhalchandra of vigilance department. Bhalchandra had sought an open inquiry. Till November 2016, when the   (NAWY) filed a writ petition in the high court, no probe was conducted by vigilance department. It was only after the high court intervened that the probe was conducted within days and the report was submitted in the court. In the writ, the NAWY had sought completion of vigilance inquiries pending against the DIOS.
 
 The petitioner submitted that nine departmental proceedings were ordered against Tripathi but none have concluded in order to extend him undue benefit. The petitioner demanded that Tripathi should be relieved from office of DIOS and not be given any charge till inquiry is pending. The petitioner also demanded expeditious inquiry and action in the matter.
 
 In its last order dated April 11, the HC expressed serious displeasure on UP chief secretary’s failure to comply with its order to obtain instruction from the chief minister on Tripathi’s prosecution. The court warned that it will summon chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar if he fails to comply with its order by April 17.
 
 
 
 
 Petitioner, the National Association for Welfare of Youth claimed that in one matter Lokayukta had sent report to chief minister but no action was taken so far. Referred to as the salary-sharing scam, the Lokayukta N K Mehrotra on January 18, 2016 said in a report that  , in a clear contempt of court, made salary payment to 10 teachers of Colvin Taluqdars’ College from 2003 till January 2016. The court, stated the report, had asked the state government can only give maintenance grant to the school in case a school continues its affiliation to the UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad. Hence, it is a matter of deep legal investigation as to how Tripathi paid salary to these 10 teachers, observed Mehrotra. 
 
