MUMBAI: For the first time in its recent history, the   has drastically slashed its annual budget. Released by municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta on Wednesday, the   stood downsized from Rs 37,052 crore last year to Rs 25,141 crore, a Rs 11,911 crore or 32% cut. The municipal body continues to be the richest in India, though, with the   still higher than that of some small states.

 Budgetary allocations for a slew of civic projects have also been slashed. This is because funds allocated in previous years were never fully utilized. Former municipal commissioner Subodh Kumar said this indicated the administration was not able to execute projects even though money was allotted for them.
 
 The civic administration has also chalked out a series of steps to reduce the cost of running day-to-day activities of the BMC, which will lead to a saving of Rs 2,525 crore. These include cutting down overtime allowances for employees and discontinuing certain posts like stenographers, clerks, and telephone operators. These posts will be merged into one (executive assistant).
 
 The administration has allotted Rs 1,000 crore for the proposed coastal road and another Rs 130 crore for the Goregaon-Mulund Link Road. Also, there is a proposal to bring slums under the ambit of the property  . Mehta said the budget was “realistic, transparent and citizen- friendly”.
 
  Citizens will not be burdened with any additional taxes or any increase in existing ones. However, a proposal for levying   tax on slums has been made to raise Rs 250 crore annually for the BMC.
 
 A 1% surcharge on all property transactions, including gifts, has been proposed to raise Rs 3,000 crore. The BMC will require special permission from the state government to impose this surcharge.
 
 Octroi, which used to fetch the BMC its highest revenue (Rs 7,000 crore per year) will be scrapped and replaced by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) from July 1. The administration now has only three months to continue with octroi, and it hopes to collect Rs 1,356 crore in this period.
 
 The BMC has allocated Rs 8,127 crore for capital expenditure on development projects for augmenting the city’s infrastructure like roads, storm water drains and water projects. The BMC had allocated Rs 12,874 crore for capital expenditure last year. Allocation for the scam-hit   department too has been reduced from Rs 2,886 crore last year to Rs 1,095 crore.
 
 Asked if lack of planning by BMC had led to large portions of budgets of the previous years remaining unutilized, Mehta said, “The departments were not very focused on their targets, and therefore this time we asked heads of department to clearly identify the works for which allocations needed to be made. Allocations this year have been made only for works where actual spending would take place.”
 
 For the first time, the convergence of the Development Plan with the financial budget has been proposed and a total of Rs 2,096 crore allocated towards implementation of the proposed draft DP.
 
 Congress leader in the BMC Ravi Raja was unhappy with the budget. “What was the point of downsizing the budget so greatly? If allocated funds were not getting spent, it is the fault of the administration. The budget has the stamp of the BJP all over it, with the word ‘transparency’, used several times by the party, appearing in the commissioner’s budget speech more than 30 times,” said Raja.
 
 
