KANPUR: The tussle between the alliance   and Congress-continues for Maharajpur assembly seat in Kanpur Nagar where both the parties had fielded their candidates thus creating confusion in the voters of this assembly seat. 

 Maharajpur seat has become important as SP has fielded former MLA Aruna Tomar while Congress had given ticket to former MP, Raja Ram Pal. 
 
 Dimple Yadav, wife of CM   and Kannauj MP on Thursday while addressing a public rally in support of the party candidate Aruna Tomar urged the voters to ensure Tomar's victory. She also mentioned Aruna Tomar being a joint candidate of both the parties. The banners and posters put up at the rally venue also have a mention of Aruna being the alliance's joint candidate. Just behind the dais, a huge banner had the mention of Aruna being candidate of the alliance. The banner read: This rally is in support of Aruna Tomar, the joint candidate of the alliance. The banner had pictures of top leaders of both the parties including Akhilesh Yadav and  , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Dimple Yadav and also a picture of SP patriach  . 
 
 The second banner which was put in front of the dais appealed the voters to vote for Aruna Tomar stating that she is the joint candidate of the alliance. 
 
 Both Congress and SP candidates are themselves confused about their candidature. To clear this confusion Dimple, before leaving the dais, informed the people that Aruna Tomar is the joint candidate of the alliance. Sources close to Aruna Tomar informed TOI that she (Tomar) herself was confused about her candidature and therefore she had to request Dimple to declare her as the candidate as voters in Maharajpur constituency are confused.
 
 "Bhaiyya (Akhilesh Yadav) will field only you as the joint candidate of the alliance", Dimple said while putting her hand on Aruna's shoulder before leaving the venue.
 
 Congress leaders are also in a jinx as no senior party leader was present in the rally. People who were present at the venue told TOI that they were confused as to who was the joint candidate of the SP-Congress alliance. 
 
 Rahul Pandey, a second time voter said, "Both the parties have joined hands in the state but still Raja Ram Pal and Aruna Tomar are contesting the election. How is that possible? This is quite confusing."
 
 Nidhi, a housewife, who would be voting for the second time said, "I think now Raja Ram Pal will not contest election because of the assurance given by Dimple to Aruna Tomar that she will be the joint candidate of the alliance. I hope the alliance partners will clarify the situation to make it easy for the voters to vote the party of their choice".
 
