NAGPUR: Catching the attention of those flying into the city is a huge 2390sqft mural which has come up at the arrival concourse of Nagpur airport. Commissioned by city-based   named  , the art work has been made by US-based artist Augustina Droze along with 30 local artists who worked as a team for twelve days to put it up on the wall.

 Painted in acrylic, the mural spreads the message of woman empowerment by using images of three girls and some 150 drawings made by the children of   Vidyalaya, Wadi. 
 
 “We wanted to convey conviction, hope and contemplation through this mural and believe that we have been able to catch that expressions through the eyes of these three girls from our school, whose images have been captured on the wall,” explained Suchika Deshmukh MD of the Foundation. “As art is eternal and more visible, we selected this medium to convey our message,” she added.
 
 The idea of spreading the message through community art work happened when Deshmukh was told about the US artist who is a Fulbright Nehru Senior scholar and specializes in mural art. 
 
 “Ï was told by city artist Shagufta Mehdi who has collaborated with Augustina earlier too, that she has a scholarship and can currently work in India. So, we decided to look for some space and zeroed in on the airport as here the art would have greater impact and wider reach,” Deshmukh said. It took some convincing for the Foundation to get the airport officials provide them the space. “We got a lot of help from them and especially from airport manager Amit Kasatwar. Once the permission was with us we put together a team of 50 people which included artists from Gondia and Pune besides those from  ,” she said adding that it was Ritesh Kamble an artist from Arvind Indo Public School, Parseoni who helped in putting together the efforts of all other artists.
 
 Once the theme and purpose of the mural was in place, an art workshop was held at Wadi school where girls of class third, fourth, seventh and eight were asked to draw their aspirations on paper. 
 
 “About 150 drawings were picked up and they were copied by thirty artists to form a huge doodle which was put on the wall as part of the mural,” Deshmukh said. “Photographs of three girls from our school, who were selected for their expressions were then blown up to form the grid for the mural that Augustina made.”
 
 The mural was inaugurated on February 18 by Brijesh Dixit, MD of Nagpur Metro Rail. HERD foundation plans to do similar work to convey social messages at other venues too.
 
