NEW DELHI: In the wake of the two   incidents in  , the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to carry out extensive inspections of dangerous buildings. It has formed 15 new teams, each comprising five members, for this purpose.

 These teams will   3,000 units spread across 15 blocks in the Inner and Outer circles. Each team has an architect, a civil engineer, an electric engineer, a health officer and a general administrative officer. These teams will work under the supervision of the chief engineer of each branch, the chief architect and the chief medical officer and a detailed report will be submitted within this week. Notices may be issued to owners, if required.
 
 NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said that the council would rope in consultants to conduct tests in order to check the strength of the buildings. “The 15 teams will inspect the buildings to identify the structural stress, if any, and check the rooftops. They will list utilities like water tanker, generator and other materials kept on the roofs and the assess their load. They will look for signs of seepage or other factors, leading to deterioration of building,” said Kumar.
 
 The first incident took place on February 2 when a portion of a building in C-block of Connaught Place collapsed. In the second case on February 11, a portion of the roof of a single-storey building in L-block caved in.
 
 Earlier on February 3, NDMC had formed a panel of five members to assess the structural stability of the buildings in the iconic market. There are around 1,200 shops and 250 restaurants in Connaught Place, of which around 60 restaurants are operating on the top floor of their buildings. Kumar said the owners were asked to a submit structural stability certificate to NDMC.
 
 “We have asked the owners to submit the certificate in the format given under building bylaws,” added Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, NDMC is planning to form a regulatory body to look after heritage buildings falling under its jurisdiction.
 
  “In many countries, they have a separate regulatory body under the local body to ensure the safety of heritage buildings. We are working towards creating a similar body as there are major concerns about the structural stability of heritage buildings. We have to ensure these buildings are safe and we have to cut down the load from the terrace,” said Kumar. 
 
 
