Jaipur: Member of Parliament from Ajmer Sanwar Lal  , who had collapsed during the meeting of BJP president Amit Shah in Jaipur on Saturday and admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sawai Man Singh Hospital, has been airlifted to Delhi’s AIIMS for further treatment on Thursday morning.

 The sixty-two-year-old leader has been airlifted from Jaipur airport by air ambulance to reach Delhi. Jat reached AIIMS at around 3.30 pm where doctors admitted him to the ICU.
 
 According to sources, Jat was unconscious and his condition did not improve significantly at SMS Hospital.
 
 It was risky to shift Jat from Jaipur to Delhi. Earlier, there were talks of shifting him but as there was risk, the doctors and family members had dropped the idea. But, now as the AIIMS doctors, including senior professor in neurology and cardiology, had examined him, it was finally decided to shift him by taking all the precautions.
 
 An air ambulance equipped with life-saving equipment was arranged and Jat was shifted. The traffic police created a green corridor for transportation of Jat from SMS Hospital to Jaipur airport.
 
 “During his stay in the hospital, we provided him treatment as per the guidelines and protocol which is required for treatment of such patients. He underwent dialysis as his creatinine level had increased. His vital parameters such as pulse and blood pressure remained normal. Now, he will undergo further treatment in the ICU,” Dr D S Meena, SMS Hospital superintendent said.
 
 Jat had suffered cardiac arrest on Saturday. He later developed complications following cardiac arrest resulted in brain hypoxic injury. He slipped into coma soon after he suffered cardiac arrest. He has not regained consciousness. The doctors administered him medicine for complementing functioning of brain and also initiating recovery of the brain along with medicines for improving his heart conditions.
 
 Jat is a senior BJP leader who had collapsed on Saturday while taking part in a meeting of MLAs and MPs in which BJP national president Amit Shah was also present. The incident happened on Saturday.
 
 Jat has been suffering from kidney failure, chronic liver disease for past few months, but he condition became critical when he suffered cardiac arrest, which affected his brain due to inadequate supply of oxygen.
 
 
