PATNA: Danapur divisional railway hospital, which provides medical facilities to about 14,000 of railway employees, their dependents and pensioners of the division, itself looks for doctors after 4pm, which is known as ‘golden hours’. 

 Expressing their concern, members of different railway unions said there no doctor remains available in the hospital after 4pm to attend even emergency cases. Out of the 17 sanctioned posts, there are hardly 10 to 12 doctors at the hospital. Interestingly, none of the doctors lives in Khagaul area, they said.
 
 The only surgeon at the hospital, Dr  , has been undergoing treatment in Delhi after the CBI trapped him in an alleged bribery case. Dr Prabhas Kumar has resigned from service while Dr   has been transferred to railway superspecialty hospital at   in Patna. There is no lady doctor staying in Khagaul area to attend to serious maternity cases in the hospital, they said, adding that chief medical superintendent (CMS) Dr R N Roy and the anaesthetist prefer to stay in Patna. 
 
 ECR’s chief medical director (CMD) Dr   admitted that most of the doctors were living in Patna because they had not been provided railway quarters there. Hospital would function normally during night if they are allotted quarters at Khagaul, he said.
 
 According to sources, the indoor capacity of the hospital has been reduced to 160 beds following commissioning of the railway superspecialty hospital in Patna. The occupancy rate of indoor beds has come down drastically due to non-availability of doctors during evening hours while about 400 patients visit the hospital daily, sources said.
 
 Railways has permitted the hospital to refer emergency cases to private nursing homes for better treatment to railway employees and their family members. The hospital has tied up with some well-known private hospitals in Patna, sources said.
 
 A Danapur official said the railway administration wanted to allot railway quarters to doctors on priority basis, but they were not interested in that as they got hefty money as house allowances in lieu of quarters. Besides, most of the doctors who are getting non-practising allowances per month, are doing private practice at their clinics in Patna, he alleged, adding that railways found it difficult to start an ART (accident relief train) as the doctors would take time to reach here from Patna in emergency.
 
 
