NAGPUR: Youngsters and mornings don’t always go together now a day. But at Sai Sabhagruha in  , come 6am and youngsters can be seen assembling in the basement. A month-long theatre workshop is underway there, organized by   group. At the end of the month, a play will be presented by the group, giving stage to new comers and first timer theatre enthusiasts. 

 “The opportunities for getting into theatre are less in Nagpur. We try to do how much ever we can to expose newcomers to the art and give them a chance to showcase their skills and get exposure,” said   of Rangrasiya theatre group. 
 
 Speaking about the contents of the workshop, Dabherao said that they were undertaking observation and character study with the participants. “There is a difference between acting for theatre and for movies — theatre needs bold acting so that even the last member of the audience in the auditorium is able to see the expressions on the face of the actor,” he said. 
 
 Dabherao also sees this workshop as a way to attract youngsters to theatre. “When they will see the fun and feel the satisfaction of staging a theatre production, they will want to stick to theatre,” he said.
 
 For the first fifteen days, the participants will be performing exercises to unlock the rigidness of the body, speech, and mind, Dabherao further informed TOI about the workshop programmes. “We’ll teach them what is make-up, acting, lighting and back story, how do you read a script and more,” he added.
 
 There are about twelve participants in the workshop and all have different reasons for joining the workshop — some see it as a stepping stone into the film industry, some want to build their confidence through the medium. 
 
 Chandrashekhar Chandurkar, a student of hotel management, says this is his first experience of being involved in theatre and he was glad to be learning new things. Shubham Shende, a commerce student, aspires to get into film industry. “I feel fresh when I come here. I am already a dancer and I wish to hone my acting skills. This workshop will help me a lot in doing that,” he said.
 
 “The sessions are very energetic” said Harsha Naigaonkar, an artiste, adding that she joined the workshop because she had seen her father rehearse in the childhood, and theatre was a hobby she had always wanted to pursue. 
 
 The ongoing workshop is Rangrasiya’s fifth one in the city.
 
