THRISSUR:   have said they would soon   display arranged as part of the   to the high court. 

 The high court had given a directive to the district administration to submit the report immediately after the Vela festival held on January 7.
 
 The district administration officials said that they were awaiting reports of the police and pollution control board (PCB) experts to submit the report to the court.
 
 Strict controls marked the   arranged as part of the Vela festival of Paramekkavu temple, in the backdrop of the series of accidents claiming numerous lives during the fireworks displays in different part of the state.
 
  Collector A Kowsigan had earlier denied permission for the fireworks display when the temple committee submitted a letter requesting permission for conducting the fireworks display using items like ‘kuzhiminni’ and ‘gundu’, which are known to be generating high-decibel sounds.
 
  The permission was granted finally after the devaswom obtained an order from the high court sanctioning low-decibel fireworks. 
 
 Justice P R Ramachandra Menon and Justice A Hariprasad of the high court in their order had also imposed several other conditions on the conduct of the fireworks display.
 
  The order had specifically stated that apart from items like ‘kuzhiminni’, the organizers should not use ‘kathana’, and the noise levels shall not exceed prescribed limits.
 
  The judge had also directed a minimum distance of 100 metres should be maintained from the place of the event and the public. The police and revenue officials have been asked to inspect the premises where the fireworks are stocked and the areas where the displays are to be conducted. 
 
 The order also prescribed a time limit of half-an-hour for the conduct of the display, and directed the devaswom authorities to deposit Rs 10 lakh as security with the district administration as surety before conducting the event.
 
 Police officials said they had taken samples of the fireworks used for the display this time and had sent it for tests at the chemical analysis laboratory at Kakkanad. They had also made elaborate security arrangements during the event as per the directive of the high court.
 
