PUNE: From apathetic staff manning toll booths to the   car breakdown units, travellers on the   had a harrowing tale to tell.

 Between Friday night and Saturday afternoon, nearly 30 cars suffered punctures on the expressway, which has lately come to resemble a dystopian pockmarked highway, all thanks to the unrelenting rain. 
 
 Police have recorded at least 13 instances of punctures due to potholes and   during the night in question. A lion’s share of these incidents had occurred near the end of the ghat section in Lonavla while coming towards Pune. 
 
 The breakdowns were reportedly caused by gaping potholes on the tarmac, particularly on the ghat section near Lonavla, due to the incessant rain. This, despite the fact that the expressway has mostly been concreted. 
 
 Apart from the annoyance of potholes and vehicular damage, motorists said the driving rain only added to their woes. 
 
 “My car was damaged around 1am. Because of the thunderous rain. I could not even tell that my car was affected. The rain also made it difficult for me to park the car by the side of the road and assess the extent of damage,” said Dhuvraj Tiwari.
 
 For those whose vehicles were affected, help was late in coming and, in some cases, less than forthcoming. 
 
 For another motorist, not a soul stopped to help on the highway, except the police. “I had started replacing the tyre on my car because the tyre and the tube were punctured due to potholes near Karla,” said Sumit D’Souza, who was driving to Pune late on Friday night. “There were no mobile units around to help. Only the police came after a while and noted down my contact details and car number. They called up repairmen, but I was already done by the time they arrived,” D’Souza added. 
 
 Compounding the element of risk to travellers, evenings get extremely foggy in the ghat section, severely affecting visibility. 
 
 Given the fact that they pay steep toll to travel on the expressway, several motorists were understandably miffed. But when they tried complaining at toll booths, they were met with apathy. 
 
 “The toll that I paid was a complete waste,” fumed  , who was driving to Pune with his wife. “I was stranded for around 30 minutes, yet no one came forward to help, either from the road maintenance team or the police. When I reached the toll plaza, I tried to file a complaint on the abhorrent condition of the road but they treated me with disdain, despite the harrowing time that I and my family experienced,” Jangam added.
 
