ALWAR: Chief minister  , who was in   on Tuesday as part of the  , inaugurated the  , showcasing the state’s achievements.

 Continuing with her tours to mark the completion of three years of governance, chief Minister Vasundhara Raje in Alwar, also addressed a public rally, where she claimed her government had in its three years had achieved and carried out developmental work which the   government had failed to accomplish during its term. 
 
 “From road construction to other development work, we have worked at tremendous pace in both urban and rural areas,” said Raje while addressing a function in Alwar. 
 
 Raje claimed that the state was running into losses when her government inherited it, but unlike the previous government, she said they never spoke about it. 
 
 “We inherited a loss of Rs 2.5 lakh crore, of which Rs 80,000 crore was of the state discoms. However, rather than complaining, we focused on working towards the development of the state. Over the last three years, we have completed development works of Rs 53,000 core. We have developed Grameen and Shehari Gaurav Path of Rs 56.28 and Rs 15 crore, respectively. With Rs 32.44 crore, renovation of roads will be done,” she said. 
 
 “We believed in working and developing the state. We are here to do service and not to rule. We are developing state taking along rural and urban areas,” she said. Raje inaugurated 29 development schemes and laid foundation for projects worth Rs 370 crore. 
 
 “The proposed medical college in the city will provide better healthcare facilities to the people,” Raje said, while appealing to industrialists in Alwar to come forward for water conservation scheme Jal Swavlamban. 
 
 Meanwhile, three-time MLA from Ramgarh assembly constituency in Alwar, Gyandev Ahuja, who had recently resigned from seven committees, including chairmanship of Committee of Estimates 'A', was not seen in Raje's programme. Ahuja had earlier said that he wanted to give time to his assembly constituency and therefore resigned from the committees, maintaining that he would be present in all events when the CM visits Alwar.
 
 
