CHENNAI:   is still not here in real terms, but the interior parts of Tamil Nadu are already feeling the heat, with Karur recording a scalding 41.8°C three days ago, almost beating its all-time record for March. Chennai recorded a relatively cooler 34.5°C which was, however, still two degrees above normal for the period.

 The state's coastal districts have been spared so far, thanks to sea breeze that reduces the effect of solar radiation. The night temperature or minimum temperature, which is recorded early in the morning, was nearly three degrees above normal in Chennai on Monday due to clouding and moisture brought in by the sea breeze.
 
 The interior districts record an average maximum temperature of 37°C around this time of the year, while the average in the coastal districts is around 33°C.
 
 In the third week of April, prevailing easterly winds will be replaced by warm dry air brought by the westerly winds, said former deputy director general of the Regional Meteorological Centre Y E A Raj. “The temperature will begin to rise then, peaking during May .“ Even at the height of summer, the sea breeze will continue to favour the coastal dis tricts, regulating the temperature. “When the westerlies are active over the city in April, sea breeze will counter the rising heat,“ Raj said.
 
 Sea breeze sets in around noon and blows for up to 10 hours. “If setting in of the sea breeze is delayed even by an hour or two, it could result in a hotter day,“ he said.
 
 The setting in of the sea breeze, however, increases the humidity in the air, from 30%-35% to as much as 70%, causing a slight rise in the temperature, Raj added.
 
 Interior districts like Madurai and Trichy , deprived of the cooling sea breeze, remain hotter than those on the coast. Karur recorded 41.8°C on Saturday and 40.5°C on Sunday , almost surpassing the town's all-time record of 42°C. The station had recorded 42°C twice during March, in 1978 and 2008.
 
 Both Madurai and Trichy recorded a maximum of 38.2°C on Saturday , while   recorded 38.5°C. The coastal district of Kanyakumari recorded 32.7°C.
 
 Area Cyclone Warning Centre director S Balachandran said the temperature will increase gradually as summer approaches. “The coastal districts are likely to record temperatures one degree above normal and interior districts will experience temperatures two degrees above normal,“ he said.
 
