AHMEDABAD: It was a green wire hanging from a bulb at the shop of Jaydeep Rathod in Morbi that helped cops crack the mystery of the  . The wire looked like the one used to create the circuit in the bomb. Crime branch officials said that while they were probing the case, they noticed that the circuit wire and the wire on the bulb were of the same colour and were made by the same company.

 “Jaydeep, his brother Vikram, and their mother Ranjan alias  , were already on our radar as they had switched off their cellphones immediately after the discovery of the bomb,” said assistant commissioner of police, Rajdeepsinh Zala. Crime branch officials said the accused broke down during interrogation and confessed to planting the bomb outside Dalpat Vyas’s house in Khodiyaarnagar of Rajkot, following the takeover of their property.
 
 Crime branch sources said it has also come to light that Ranjan, who had an affair with a man called Dinesh Ginayo, was not able to repay Rs 50,000 which she had borrowed from a person identified as Nitin Bava. “Hence Bava, with the help of Dalpat Vyas and Munna, had forcibly taken possession of Ranjan’s house located next to Dalpat’s house in Khodiyarnagar,” said a crime branch official. “Dalpat and Munna also intimidated Ranjan whenever she talked to them about getting her house back.”
 
 Zala said Ranjan had submitted an application of complaint with the   against the three. “However, as she could not get back her house, Ranjan asked her lover Dinesh to kill Dalpat and his family with a bomb,” Zala said. “She thought the attack would frighten Nitin and Munna into vacating her house.”
 
 Dinesh, who knew how make generators, roped in his friend   — who used to work in mines — to get gelatin tubes. “With the help of Ranjan’s sons Jaydeep and Vikram, they obtained bike batteries and wires and made a bomb at an isolated place on the outskirts of Morbi. They planted the bomb in front of Dalpat’s house on 13th February,” a crime branch official said. “However Dalpat’s wife noticed the bomb in a cardboard box. Soon, cops arrived and the bomb was defused.”
 
 Crime branch officials said Dinesh was still on the run. “We have some clues and have dispatched a team to nab him,” said a crime branch official. “We have till now arrested Ranjan, her two sons — Jaydeep and Vikram — and Praveen Solanki.”
 
 
