AHMEDABAD: The signs were ominous for Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary   on Thursday, a day after he filed his nomination for a fifth term to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat, as the   chief whip in the assembly,  , resigned as an   and was declared BJP’s third candidate for the Upper House.

 Later in the evening, Rajput joined BJP in the presence of party president  , himself a first-time Rajya Sabha candidate from Gujarat.
 
 Cabinet minister Smriti Irani is also seeking her second term in the Upper House. “I was extremely fed up with the groupism within Congress,” Rajput said.
 
 Shah told MLAs to take care while voting for RS candidates, and hinted that more Congress legislators were likely to switch over in the coming days. 
 
 Along with Rajput, two other Congress MLAs —   and P I Patel — also joined BJP after submitting their resignations to the Speaker, Ramanlal Vora.
 
 Elections to the Upper House are due on August 8, which allows Shah enough time to prod Congress MLAs to cross over. Most rebels are reportedly being offered BJP tickets in the assembly elections to be held in November.
 
 Sources said about 17 or 18 Congress MLAs — out of a total of 57 in the 182-member Gujarat House — are likely to accept the offer.
 
 That Rajput is a close relative of  , the leader of the opposition in the assembly who quit Congress last week, leaves little doubt about who is conspiring against Patel. Rajput’s son is married to Vaghela’s grand-daughter and the wedding was attended by Narendra Modi, then the Gujarat chief minister, in 2013.
 
 Three Rajya Sabha seats have fallen vacant and the field now has four candidates, paving the way for an all-out battle that may split Congress down the middle.
 
 With many Congress MLAs not taking phone calls from the party leadership, anxiety has been growing in the main opposition party, which appears to be in disarray after the recent presidential election, when nearly a dozen MLAs cross-voted If all the 182 MLAs (BJP has 121) were to vote in the RS elections, any candidate getting 46 votes stands to win.
 
 But with the spate of resignations, the magical figure is likely to come down. BJP, after ensuring that the required number of votes are cast in favour of Shah and
 
