NAGPUR: To tackle the BJP,   have started to unite for the upcoming   ( ) elections. The   is all set to finalize an alliance with its old ally Lokmanch, and also started the process to have an alliance with NCP and RPI groups.

 The saffron parties, BJP and Shiv Sena, have already made it clear that they will be contesting the NMC elections separately. BJP is confident, and its leaders are claiming it will win over 100 of the total 151 seats. Some BJP leaders even say they will secure up to 125 seats.
 
 Congress city president Vikas Thakre has started discussions with Lokmanch leader Atal Bahadur Singh. “Lokmanch will be offered eight seats. Lokmanch was given nine of total 145 seats in 2012 NMC elections. Lokmanch won five seats under Congress symbol,” Congress sources said.
 
 A senior Congress leader told TOI an offer for alliance with NCP has also been made. “The Congress has always welcomed secular parties to serve the city. Therefore, we wish to contest NMC elections along with like-minded parties,” he said.
 
 Sources added that the Congress will begin talks with NCP by offering 12 seats. However, discussion between Congress and NCP are expected to stretch for some time, since NCP leaders feel 12 is not a respectable offer.
 
 NCP city working president Pravin Kunte said the NCP was ready to enter into an alliance with secular parties, including Congress, to stop the BJP. “We deserve at least one seat in each of the 38 wards. NCP’s coordination committee met on Thursday and formed a three-member committee of MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, Anil Ahirkar and Vijay Motghare, to hold alliance talks with the Congress. The NCP contested 2012 elections in alliance with Congress. NCP contested 34 seats, 29 of them in alliance with Congress and five in friendly fights. Therefore, NCP wishes to contest all 38 wards this time,” he said.
 
 NCP won only six seats in 2012 elections.
 
 The Congress has also commenced a dialogue with RPI groups, especially the one headed by MLC Jogendra Kawade. “We have started to form a RPI Front. Already 10 groups have united in the front. All secular parties, including Congress, are welcome. We did not receive any proposal from Congress as yet. We will finalize an alliance if we receive a respectable offer from the Congress,” Kawade said.
 
 The Congress is likely to negotiate with all secular parties, as they will be a threat to the Congress too in NMC elections. Congress can fight with BJP only if it ensures there is no division in secular votes. Congress also always faces the threat of rebels, who join parties like NCP and BSP to contest against its candidates. The BJP gets advantage of division in secular votes. Therefore, Congress will leave no chance to bring all secular parties under one alliance for the NMC elections.
 
 In fact, this time the Congress has recently inducted seven corporators from other parties like BJP, BSP, Shiv Sena and independents, into its fold.
 
 Congress had won 41 seats in 2012 elections and had an alliance with NCP and Lokmanch. It seems difficult for the Congress to reach the magic figure of 76 to come back to power in NMC if it goes it alone in the elections. Congress ruled NMC for 51 years and has now been out of power for two consecutive terms.
 
 The Congress had contested the legislative assembly elections, followed by legislative council and municipal council elections independently in the state and also district. If all alliances are tied up, Congress will be left with 120-125 seats for its party leaders and workers.
 
