Ongole: As   village under Parchuru mandal in Prakasam is simmering with unrest after forcible evacuation of Dalits from the agriculture lands they have been cultivating for many decades now, the government has made a move forward to cool them down and resolve the issue amicably.

 Local minister Sidda Raghava Rao and legislator Yeluri Sambasiva Rao offered welfare schemes, including houses, for the Dalits whose lands were acquired by the government. The Dalits, backed by CPM and the YSR Congress, have been protesting against the destruction of their lands in the name of restoring the irrigation tank. The Dalits claim that they have been enjoying the lands for more than seven decades and have the certificates issued by the administration authorising them cultivate the lands.
 
 However, the minister and the legislator said that the government is ready to compensate the loss to the Dalits.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sambasiva Rao observed, “The government is not against the Dalits. The gram panchayat has decided to restore the water body which has been encroached upon for many years now.” He further said that the government is ready to compensate the Dalits reasonably without affecting their livelihood.
 
 “During my initial interaction with the Dalits, I have offered payment of lease amount for five years to all those who have been enjoying the irrigation tank land. We have also promised to give them subsidised loans, provide housing and house sites, besides skill training to the youth,” the legislator said.
 
 He justified the evacuation of Dalits from the lands on the ground that the water bodies have to be protected as per the Supreme Court’s direction. “The lands are part of the irrigation tank which philanthropist Vasireddi Krishnam Raju donated 20 years ago. Since there is no water, the Dalits have occupied it for single crop and they have ‘temporary cultivation certificates’ issued by the officials some years ago. Now, under the Neeru-Chettu programme, the government is reviving these water bodies to make water available for cultivation. This should not be prevented. At the same time, we are equally concerned about the welfare and livelihood of the Dalits for which we are promising relief measures,” the legislator asserted.
 
 Sambasiva Rao further said that he would take up the issue with the government and ensure that the Dalits are given some other lands as compensation under the Land Purchase Scheme by treating it as a special case. He sought to advise the Dalit families not to be carried away by the politically-motivated statements of CPM and YSR Congress leaders. 
 
 
