
As the reality show   is having its finale this week, three participants from Rajasthan ­ Bhanu Pratap Singh Chauhan, Abhishek Saini and   ­ are bracing themselves to grab the winner's trophy . While Bhanu and Abhishek ­ who perform mimicry acts together on the show ­ hail from Jaipur, Rajendra Bishnoi, a dancer, is from Bikaner. In a quick conversation with us, the contestants talk about their journey to the finale and more.
 
 
 
 
 Bhanu and Abhishek have impressed the judges with their impeccable mimicry skills as they have imitated many Bollywood celebrities in their acts.Talking about their journey, Bhanu says, “It is in my habit to minutely observe people. In school, I would imitate a few celebrities. Then, when I got admission in an engineering college, I started performing hilarious skits. I even won a stand-up comedy competition organised at local level in Jaipur, which boosted my morale and I started doing it professionally.“
 
 Bhanu adds, “ After completing my engineering, I got a job in a dubbing studio in Jaipur itself. This is where I met Abhishek and together we formed a jodi. While he can imitate more than 60 voices, I can imitate over 70 voices.“ Abhishek says, “Before participating in India Banega Manch, we would perform only in Rajasthan. It is through this show that we have got national recognition. The feeling, that we have made it to the finale, is yet to sink.“
 
 Bhanu Pratap and Abhishek cemented their place in the finale by impressing rapper   who told them that their mimicry skill is even better than that of show's host Krushna Abhishek.To this Bhanu says, “Krushna is our idol. Jaise unki jodi popular hai (referring to Krushna's jodi with Sudesh Lehri), waise hi hum bhi popular hona chahte hain. It was a big compliment for us and we hope we live up to that compliment in our final performance as well.“
 
 
 
 
  
  Rajendra Bishnoi
 
 Rajendra's story is nothing short of an inspiration for all those who dream big in their life. Coming from the family of a farmer in Bikaner, the 21-year-old BA student left judges of the show awestruck with his daredevil acts on monkey bars. “Four-years ago I attended a dance workshop in Bikaner. I attended the workshop just for fun as becoming a professional dancer was never on my mind. I enjoyed the workshop and a few of my friends appreciated my skills mainly because I was flexible enough to do many steps that peers couldn't do. Then, I joined another dance class where my mentor Deepak Sir taught me all the nuisances of dancing,“ Rajendra says.
 
 He added, “But I know that mere dancing won't get me anywhere.One day , I was passing by a local park where I saw people exercising on monkey bars. It was then that the idea of dancing on monkey bars struck my mind and I started practising at that park.“
 
 It was a not a piece of cake for Rajendra to make it to the finale and the biggest hurdle for him was to convince his parents. “Initially, my mother objected to me taking up dancing. She wanted me to study hard and fight for government competitive exams. Also, since the chances of getting injured are high in the type of dancing I perform, she was totally against it. Thankfully , my father and brothers supported me. Now that I have made it to the finale, my mother is happy too,“ he said.
 
 Talking about his future plans, Rajendra said, “I would like to open a dance academy for all those kids who can't afford to learn dancing. Also, I would like to become a Bollywood choreographer.“
 
 
 
 
