NEW DELHI: On the heels of the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, where   became the first woman wrestler from India to bag an Olympic medal - as well as only the fourth female athlete from the country to stand atop a podium at the pinnacle of world sport - and PV Sindhu claimed the biggest prize in the history of Indian badminton, an Olympic silver, came the Paralympics, also in Brazil, from where four Indians won medals to make it India's best ever haul. 

 The four lion-hearts who scripted India's most successful Paralympics ever were javelin thrower  , who broke his own record while claiming his second medal;  , who won silver in the shot put F-53 event to become the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic medal; and high jumpers  , who created history by winning gold, and   who claimed bronze. 
 
 However, a post on social media by the   (PCI) on April 2 during the ongoing 17th National Para Athletics Championships held at Jaipur's   complex indicates that the governing body for para athletes in India has undermined Deepa's Rio Olympics performance. The tweet congratulates Maharashtra's   for hurling a distance of 4.67 meters to won gold in the T-53 category and beating Deepa's throw in Rio last year, and shows the top three para athletes standing on a podium receiving their respective medals. 
 
 
  
 
 However, Deepa's event in Rio was in a different category - the F-53 which refers to Field events and, specifically, for athletes in wheelchairs. As per the rules of disability athletics defined by the   (IPC), the T51-54 classes are for wheelchair track events, T42-47 for running track events, F51-58 for seated throws and F42-46 for standing throws. Athletes in these classes, as defined by the IPC, "are affected by one or more of the musculoskeletal impairments of limb deficiency, leg length difference, impaired muscle power or impaired range of movement." 
 
 When TOI Sports contacted the PCI and informed its vice-president   of the erroneous tweet, he expressed surprise and said it would be rectified. "That must have been an error on the social media team's part. There is no doubt that the two events are separate. Deepa competed in the F-53 category and the F refers to Field, whereas Bhagyashree competed in the T-53 category which refers to Track events. It is an unfortunate error on social media and I will speak to the concerned people," said Singh. 
 
 At a time when the feel-good vibes of what Deepa, Devendra, Mariyappan and Varun achieved last year are fresh and continue to act as sources of inspiration, and when many other disabled Indian athletes are doing the country proud at the national and international levels, is this a sign of apathy or just a lack of knowledge by the Indian authorities? One has also heard that even the government is keen to treat the Paralympics, which gave India four medals in Rio, including two golds, at par with the priority sports, which makes the unprofessional attitude of the association all the more glaring. 
 
