Surat: Leaders of BJP that controls Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for past one decade had announced several big-budget projects with fanfare, but many could not take off as they were simply infeasible plans.

 The SMC planned to spend Rs120 crore in 2010 to construct a 10-km-long balloon barrage on the downstream of Tapi river to create a reservoir of 15 million litres per day (MLD) to meet future water requirement of the city. Water and Power Consultancy Services India Limited, which was given the consultancy work of Rs1.59 crore for the project in December 2011, submitted its final draft report to the SMC within a few months. The SMC now says the balloon barrage is not viable due to the curved shape of the river near Magdalla and that the city needs another weir-cum-causeway like the one at Singanpore.
 
 There was a plan to build a state-of-the-art 61-storey SMC headquarters on Ring Road. The then chief minister Anandiben Patel had even laid the foundation stone for the project 30 months ago, but there is nothing to show on ground as of now. The feasibility of a high-rise building on Ring Road is being checked now. 
 
 Similarly, a Sardar Patel Temple was conceived by the BJP on VIP Road three years ago, but the project has been shelved now over usability issues. BJP leaders say, “We already have a convention hall in Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU), and so another one was not required. The open plot can be put to a better use.” 
 
 The BJP leaders also announced Dumas seashore development plan seven years ago, but so far it has cut no ice with Ministry of Environment & Forests. Dumas seashore development plan was to cover a stretch of 4km from Dumas to Bhimpore which would have been dotted with an open theatre, a children's park, a food plaza, a shopping mall, a walkway, a natural park and a garden. The BJP leaders said the project is well on track.
 
 The BJP rulers had also designed a 30-storey business hub, touted as Gujarat’s highest skyscraper at a cost of Rs500 crore under public-private-partnership (PPP) model in 2009. This edifice at Kharwarnagar junction near Udhana was supposed to have ultra-modern amenities, including a restaurant, a helipad, an amphi-theatre and a park. The project was found to be impractical and shelved. This place hosts a BRTS junction and a traffic island today.
 
 City unit BJP president Nitin Bhajiawala told TOI, “These projects were announced after holding consultations with urban planners of the civic body. However, some had to be shelved because they were found to be infeasible and a few like Dumas seashore development plan are held up due to land acquisition issues.” 
 
 
