CHENNAI: A   paving the way for   after a gap of three years is being worked out by the   under strange circumstances.

 The   has in the past outlawed the bull sport on several occasions. On May 7, 2014, it quashed the state government's Tamil Nadu Regulation of Jallikkattu Act, 2009, for being repugnant to the Central Act, the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act, 1960. It also upheld a central notification dated July 11, 2011, includ ing bulls in the list of animals prohibited from being used for performances. It disallowed the Centre's eleventh hour bid to withdraw the notification.
 
 It stayed the January 7, 2016, central notification allowing bulls in sports such as jallikkatu and rekla races, and the final orders on the matter is awaited. On Friday the apex court agreed not to deliver the verdict for a week more, indicating that there is no good news in store for several lakh protesting youths and students seeking revival of jallikkattu. On November 16, 2016, the apex court rejected the Tamil Nadu government's review petition on the matter too.
 
 While all legal avenues look sealed, the Tamil Nadu government has bowed to public pressure and has finalized an ordinance to sidestep these judicial pronouncements. Looking back, one would realise that the state has exhausted almost all available options to keep the jallikkattu tradition alive.Even the Centre has declined to bring out an ordinance saying the matter is sub judice.
 
 Wondering why Tamil Nadu is seeking to tread the same path, though it had been disapproved by the Supreme Court in the past, former judge of Ma dras high court Justice   feels only the Centre is best placed to comprehensively amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act by an Ordinance. “Three Sections in the Act need to be tinkered with. First, Section 11 should be amended in such a way that jallikkattu is defined as a non-cruel game. Section 27 and 28 should then be amended so as to bring jallikkattu under the list of exempted activities involving police or military purposes, or religious activities,“ said Justice Hariparanthaman.
 
 As the state ordinance is being made in a concurrent list matter, prior assent of the President is mandatory , and the process is underway , he said.What exact route the state takes would be known only if ordinance details are revealed, he added. Former additional solic itor-general of India P Wilson said it was high time that the Centre scraps the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and brings in a new law taking into account the issues prevalent in such diverse states as Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Kashmir, etc. “No amount of alteration to existing law will solve issues to the satisfaction of all stake-holders, there will be more litigations,“ Wilson said.
 
 TNCC spokesperson and advocate Siva Rajasekaran said the Centre has washed its hands off the matter because it foresees further legal troubles.“Nothing prevented the Centre from issuing the ordinance and doing necessary changes to the parent Act, instead of placing the burden on the state government, which had already burnt its fingers on the issue,“ Sivarajasekaran said.
 
 
