NASHIK: The   on Sunday arrested a doctor for allegedly carrying out   tests and  . 

 Dr Baliram Nimba Shinde has been charged for violating Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act and Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PCPNDT).   (NMC) medical officer Vijay Dekate had lodged complaint against the doctor with the police.
 
 Officials in the civic body’s health department said the action was taken against the doctor after substantial evidence were found against him for carrying out sex determination tests and medical termination of a pergnancy. After being instructed by Dekate, a team from the civic health department comprising R P Chirmade, J S Dhaneshwar, Prashant Shinde, Vijay Deokar, Narayan Bhoye and others raided his hospital on February 17 around 4.30pm for inspection. It was found that the hospital was unregistered. 
 
 Despite Dr Shinde‘s alleged resistance, the team managed to enter the hospital where they found a 29-year-old-woman admitted. The team was told that the woman had undergone a stomach surgery.
 
 Dr Shinde told the team that though he only had the facility of an out patient department (OPD) at his facility, he had to perform an emergency surgery on the woman to remove a tumour.
 
 Dhaneshwar, one of the team members from NMC, said while they were interrogating the doctor, some suspected goons arrived at the clinic following which they had to leave the place. Nonetheless, the medical team managed to grab the file of the patient and the OPD register.
 
 They later summoned the sinologist, anaesthetist and the surgeon, who had performed the surgery on the woman. After talking to them, it was ascertained that the doctor had performed illegal sex determination and termination of pregnancy.
 
 Dhaneshwar said that the surgery, the doctor had perforated the patient’s uterus that led to complications. After this, she was admitted to Dr Shinde‘s clinic at Mumbai Naka. 
 
 The officials said that the entire procedure of sex determination and subsequent termination of pregnancy was done at Dr Shinde’s hospital in Ozar. She was shifted to his Mumbai Naka hospital after the complications arose. 
 
 A day after, the NMC medical team sought police protection to conduct further investigation of the hospital. During subsequent investigation, the team found that the patient was alone in the hospital with no medical staffers to take care of her. The clinic was sealed by the NMC’s medical staff and the patient was shifted to another private hospital.
 
 On Sunday, city medical officer Vijay Dekate lodged an offence against the doctor at the Mumbai Naka police station. The officials said that Shinde allegedly conducted sex determination tests and termination of pregnancy regularly at his hospital in Ozar.
 
