Kolkata of the olden days, sportswomen who've made us proud and the value of recycling are among the themes highlighted by the Durga Puja pandals in Delhi this year. Take a look:

 
 
  
  WINNER ON THE WALL: Gymnast Dipa Karmakar on the wall of   (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
 
 In a year when so many female achievers have made us proud, it is no surprise that a Durga Puja pandal would be dedicated to sportswomen. But the   at Safdarjung Enclave does not stop there. They have gone all out in including almost ever extraordinary Indian woman, from Sarojini Naidu to Mother Teresa, beside the Phogat sisters, PV Sindhu and other sportswomen at their Nari Shakti-themed pandal. Debashis Saha, general secretary of the Matri Mandir Durga Puja Samiti, says, "We have included more than 30 women personalities like Saina Nehwal, Dipa Karmakar, Lata Mangeshkar, the Indian Women's Cricket team, Sunita Williams, Kalpana Chawla and others from varied fields like science, sports, arts, etc. It took us around 45 days to construct this pandal after six months of discussions and deliberations. Apart from the theme, the other highlight of our pandal is its food stalls. We have around 20 food stalls. From Karim's non-veg to momos, one can get every dish of their choice."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
  (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 
 
 Having been awarded the best Durga Pandal across NCR by Association of Bengalis in Delhi last year, Prantic Cultural Society has constructed this year’s pandal on the theme of ‘Our Heritage, Our Pride’. The walls of the pandal has rhymes and stories every Bengali has read as a kid and pictures of Kolkata in the olden days. Malay Majumdar, chairman of the Society, says, "We migrated to Delhi from West Bengal long back. Our children are not aware of our culture. They are more Delhiites now. Through this year’s pandal, we want to tell not only them but the non-Bengali communities about our heritage. We tried to depict how Bengal used to look 50-60 years back. From the Bengali zamindari culture to the houses of that time, everything is depicted in the pandal. We have tried to cover the entire transformation from that time till today. The artisans were called from Kolkata who brought everything required for the construction of the pandal in a truck with them. It took nearly one month to build the entire thing."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
 
 Celebrating their 25th year of their Durga Puja celebrations, Navapalli Puja Samiti have gone eco-friendly this year by using biodegradable stuff like bamboo sticks, dried fruits, corn, rice, forest residues, etc. Suprateem Ghosh, member, Navapalli Puja Samiti, says, "We got artisans from Kumartuli in Kolkata. We tried to keep a terracotta theme in the whole area, using terracotta colours. We always want to worship a god which is more godly looking rather than arty looking. That's why you'll see everything is artistic but the idols are made in a way that we are able to worship them." Another feature of this pandal is that no non-veg food is allowed here for cleanliness reasons.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Depicting communal harmony, the Arambagh Puja Samiti has constructed a pandal with an idol of Goddess Durga alongwith symbols of four religions – temple, mosque, church and gurudwara. Bijan Vikash Kundu, head designer of the pandal, says, "We came to Delhi from Kolkata around a month back. All the artists are from Kolkata and are the best in this field. We have also constructed the biggest chandelier of 30x10 in Delhi. While the pandal and main idol at the entry gate have been given an innovative and artistic theme, the idols for pujo were constructed keeping our tradition in mind. The same traditional technique has been used in making these idols."
 
  
  
  
  
 
