On Mother’s Day, we try our best to pamper our mothers and give them a break from their usual duties. And for many   who are married, there is double planning and gifts involved, because of course you can’t leave out your mom-in-law from Mother’s Day celebrations. It might be an unusual (or not) combination, but many Gurgaon women are lucky enough to spend today with two mothers, who also get along with each other! 

  
 Richa Deo, a resident of Sector 52, says that this Mother’s Day is going to be twice the fun as both her mother and mother-in-law will join her for celebrations. "We plan to take the day off from our usual schedule. Luckily, my mother and mother-in-law get along very well. They had recently gone to Japan together as well, and they both mean a lot to me. I am lucky that I am going to spend the day with both of them," she says. 
 
  
  
 
  Neha Yadav, a resident of Shivaji Nagar, adds, "I know it is rare, but they really get along. My mother-in-law never made me feel like she is not my biological mother. There are times when my mom tells me not to do certain things, but my mother-in-law would be like, 'Tujhe joh karna hai, kar, baaki main sambhal lungi'."
 
  
  
 
  Priyanka Verma, a resident of Sector 57, says, "They both are here in Gurgaon, so it is like a mini family get-together this Mother’s Day."
 
  
  Neha Yadav (second from right) enjoys brunch with her mother Anju Yadav and kids Naavya and Sidhaanth (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 Not making your moms cook for the family is rule number 1 on Mother’s Day. However, it is not always easy to accomplish. "My mom and mother-in-law love to cook. It will be very difficult to keep them away from the kitchen. The plan is to give them a relaxing day," says Ritu Khurana, a resident of Sector 50.
 
  
  
 
  In some homes, the cooking part is being taken care of by the men and the kids. "My husband and kids will cook breakfast for all of us – me, my mom and mother-in-law. After that, we plan to go out in the afternoon. We might go out for dinner as well, but we will definitely not enter the kitchen the whole day," says Richa. 
 
  Neha adds, "I will enter the kitchen only to bake a cake for my mother and mother-in-law. I am hoping my kids will surprise us and cook for us in the morning."
 
  
 While some mothers will rest at home, others have a day out planned. Richa tells us, "My mother and mother-in-law are both nature lovers, so we plan to go for a walk in the morning. Then, our kids will cook breakfast for us, and we will order in for lunch."
 
  Ritu says that she plans to take both her mothers for a spa session, but she is not sure if they will be interested in that. She says, "They rarely go to spas, but I wanted to pamper them. We also plan to go out and watch a movie after the spa session."
 
  Priyanka has a lunch, movie and shopping date planned for her moms. She says, "After lunch, we will watch a movie and then I am taking them shopping. It is the only day when they will not scold us for splurging on them."
 
 
