MAPUSA: Unlike the BJP government in Goa which functions remotely from Delhi, the Congress, if elected to office in the February 4 elections, would form a government that would listen to local needs, Congress vice president   said here on Monday. Addressing a rally at Mapusa of 15,000-odd people, Gandhi took potshots at PM   and defence minister   for running the state government through “remote control”.

 “Today in India, only one person rules the entire country, and the state of Goa is not administered from Goa, but it works through remote control from Delhi,” Gandhi said. “This is the reality. And what Modi wants, what your minister in Delhi wants, that is executed in Goa,” Gandhi said in a clear reference to Parrikar.
 
 The defence minister’s frequent presence in Goa and involvement in decision making in the state has often fueled speculation and criticism that he was playing the role of a ‘Super CM’ in Goa.
 
 Dressed in his trademark white kurta and blue jeans, Gandhi spoke for 19 minutes, taking broad swipes at his favorite target, the Prime Minister.
 
 Calling Modi a dictator, Gandhi said the Prime Minister was not in a habit of listening to the people.
 
 “Modi talks a lot, and he talks well, but doesn’t listen. He listens to nobody. He tells the entire country to listen to his ‘Mann ki Baat’ but he has never asked anybody in the country what is on their mind. Have you ever heard Modi ask a person to tell him their ‘Mann ki Baat’? Never, because this is not the RSS’s way, nor the BJP way… but this is the Congress way,” the Nehru-Gandhi scion said.
 
 Gandhi recounted that during Congress rule there were block-level meetings, officer-level meetings and MLAs used to meet to take decisions. “There was a collective decision making process. The government that we will form in Goa will not be the government of one person to be run by remote control,” Gandhi said.
 
 The 46-year-old politician asserted that the Congress would not compromise on corruption and would focus on employment generation. “We will work in a strict manner and eradicate corruption. With more than 60% young faces, we are starting with a clean sheet. The biggest focus will be on employment,” he said.
 
 Repeating the assurances given by former chief minister Digambar Kamat, Gandhi said that the minimum requirement for certain government jobs would be reduced to 8th standard instead of the current 10th standard.
 
