   star   is back on screen again, this time with a short film and in a completely new avataar.
 
  Produced by Thought Process Films, the concept showcased has never been explored before on an Indian short film platform.
  
  Speaking on the same   said, "The concept which is about love in the future sounded very interesting to me, and something I definitely wanted to explore. Also I have taken up the online space with this short film, for the very first time ever which is quite new to me, as a budding opportunity. For the first time ever I will be seen portraying a different genre, I have never done before, and which i am very excited for you guys to see in this short film. I have portrayed a dual role for the very first time on screen, something which was quite challenging but I absolutely enjoyed playing! This is something I took up as a good challenge."
  
  
 
  
  Speaking about his shooting experience he said,"The team was new, my co-star was new but we gelled quite well. Some of the scenes though were quite challenging! I had to look at a lamp in one of them, and had to imagine it as a girl who I was romantically speaking too! So yes, you'll will get to see a totally different side of me on a different platform as well, which i am quite excited about."
  
  Speaking on working with his new co-star and first timer Nadia Shaikh, Shantanu said, "Yes she is a nice girl, very adjusting and was open to learning new things, so it was good working with her."
  
  A short synopsis on their roles and the story, "Something like love” is the story of  , a 20-year-old average looking guy who has a huge crush on his neighbour, Sonia. He sees her every day in the elevator and gathers all his courage to speak to her, but his fear of rejection stops him.The future, though, has a unique twist in store for him.
  
  As the sweet love story moves forward, it makes you wonder if it’s best when two lovers remain strangers while stating a question; Are we moving towards a future in which technology actually connects people or is there a hidden motive behind all this?"
  
  Shantanu has worked on this short film with director  , a former Creative Director of UTV, Endemol Shine India with 14 years of work experience. With being the creative director on shows like Emotional Atyachar, Channel V  , Pyar Ka The End,   Love School and many other home grown concepts.
  
  
 
  
  
 
