IMPHAL: A day after chief minister Ibobi Singh demanded that the framework agreement signed between the Centre and   (Isak-Muivah) in 2015 be made public, BJP's state in charge and Union HRD minister   categorically said Prime Minister  's assurance on the matter was enough. 

 Modi, at a   on Saturday, had said the framework agreement contained no clause that could threaten Manipur's territorial integrity.
 
 "You have to believe the Prime Minister like we all believed in the Army's surgical strike against militants in Pakistan. Once the Prime Minister has spoken on the agreement, there is no reason why the chief minister should make such a demand. It makes no sense," Javadekar said here on Sunday.
 
 Ibobi, reacting to Modi's assurance, had said if the agreement was not inimical to Manipur's interests, nothing should prevent the Centre from disclosing its contents. "Why is the Centre so secretive about it?" he had asked.
 
 Javadekar said there were certain matters of national importance which could not be made public. "Things like details of the surgical strike cannot be made public," he argued. He added that before signing the agreement, Modi had even discussed it with Congress president Sonia Gandhi.
 
 The framework agreement, signed on August 3, 2015, to pave the way for peace talks with NSCN (I-M), has remained a bone of contention in Manipur. 
 
 In the run-up to the assembly polls, the agreement has emerged as a vital electoral tool for the ruling Congress to take on BJP. With the saffron party making inroads in Congress strongholds, the latter has frequently used the framework agreement to corner BJP.
 
 Given that the people of Imphal valley, home to 40 out of Manipur's 60 assembly seats, are vehemently protective about the territorial boundary of Manipur, the contents of the agreement have become even more important.
 
 In 2001, protesters had burnt down the state assembly building here when the then NDA government had extended the   agreement with NSCN (I-M) to Manipur. Political observers said Congress's frequent attacks on the agreement had put BJP on the defensive but Javadekar dismissed this.
 
 "The Congress and Ibobi Singh are frustrated with the rise of BJP. That is why he is frequently resorting to attacking the framework agreement. As if there is no other issue. Development has suffered so much under the 15 years of Congress," the Union minister said.
 
