CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: Seeing a scam in the tweaking of proposed Metro routes in Gurugram and the ownership fiasco over 464 acres of prime land in  ,   tried to lay a siege around the assembly on Tuesday but were dispersed by the police and some senior party functionaries detained.

 The party claimed 40 workers had sustained injuries after Chandigarh police used canes to beat them back. Several senior party men, including state president  , were detained and taken to the Sector 17 police station, officials said.
 
 Congress had announced last week it would “storm” the assembly on Tuesday and there was heavy police deployment along the protest route. Barricades had also been put up and water cannons deployed. Police used a cane charge after the protesters ignored requests to turn back.
 
 Tanwar later said, “The Gwalpahari controversy is a major example of how the government and the chief minister’s office facilitated builders by transferring land and later cancelling the mutation. Re-routing Metro lines is similar. We (Congress) are not the only ones, even BJP leaders and MLAs have been raising the issue.”
 
 Congress general secretary Pradeep Singh Zaildar claimed three party workers sustained fractures. “All of us had assembled in Sector 17 opposite the RBI and were marching towards the assembly in a peaceful manner. But police started a lathicharge and several of us were injured and many, including me, were taken into custody. The Tempo Traveller in which we were taken almost overturned and some of us fell out of it as it was being driven in a rash manner,” Tanwar said.
 
 He added that the party would keep pressure on the government on Gwalpahari. “The BJP and its leadership cannot succeed in trying to keep our mouth shut by raining lathis on us. We will take up this issue for discussion in the assembly in the next two days,” he said.
 
 The Gwalpahari controversy revolves around 464 acres of prime land off the Gurgaon-Faridabad, which is estimated to be around Rs 3,000 crore. In mutation records, this land is under the ownership of MCG. But acting on the directions of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, former deputy commissioner T L Satyaprakash said in his inquiry report the mutation entered in the name of MCG appeared to be incorrect and suggested that the ownership of the land should belong to 322 private entities.
 
 
