By releasing in over 400 screens simultaneously, Hebbuli, directed by Krishna, has broken a record of sorts. Speaking to us from the midst of a large crowd gathered to catch the show on the first day, the film’s lead actor   tells us, “The entire team of   is on top of the world right now. From the time we announced the title and released the first look, till the time of release, I think it is our audience that has been carrying the film on their shoulders.” Producer   of SRV Productions partners with Umapathy of Umapathy Films for Hebbuli. 

 Raghunath tells us, “We are blessed to get this kind of support from the audiences. The film is a commercial entertainer, that also has a contemporary message that has been packaged well. Quite like how a   fights for his country till the last possible second, Sudeep has been our biggest strength, who has been with us from the beginning and until the release.” 
 
 Excerpts from a chat with Sudeep about all that the film means to him…
 
 
 
 It is very easy for us to put on a costume and act out a character like this. But the reality is far from what you can imagine. Even a strong word like sacrifice would be an understatement when you look at the lives of army personnel at the border. The life they lead is just impossible. If we were to work on a film that was completely based on their lives, we would have to do a lot of homework before we even lock a script.
 
 
 
 Challenges come in when there is probably one person on the team who is not able to do his job well enough. In this team, every single person has put in his best, so there was no question of having to cover up for someone else in another department. As for my own role, maintaining my hairstyle throughout the shoot schedule, I feel, was my biggest challenge. It was really tough to have that one bit of hair hanging out all the time. Another challenge was the fact that this film required very minimal dialogues from me. It is more about expressions and the cinematographer, and I worked together to capture the essence of the emotions. The narrative is engrossing, and that had the entire team involved at all levels. It was the most fun experience on the set.
 
 
 
 I don’t hate dancing, I am just not comfortable about it. The song demanded it and shooting for it was an interesting experience where every technician on the set had pulled up a chair and was constantly encouraging me with a ‘You can do it’. I felt like I was performing on stage at school with a lot of cheering from close family members who believe that you can do anything. There were so many claps and even hugs after every successful shot. It was amusing.
 
 
 
 I agree with that 100%. The minds and thoughts behind a film are those of the technicians. We actors are the faces that bring those thoughts to life. Both have to work together to bring out the best. Each department has to be involved and work together.
 
 
 
 It is a choice one makes on how to lead one’s own life. Irrespective of how you feeling physically, you tell yourself, ‘Let’s get up, let’s do it’. I found that a lot of people were looking at me as an example, and if I chose to be laidback and give myself time to recuperate, I felt that I would not have been setting the right example. Things had to be prioritized.
 
 
 
 The newness in presentation.
 
