Nagpur: Cardiology department in the Super Specialty Hospital ( ) has procured a 4-D Echo for advance   of heart defects. The 4-D Echo costing Rs1.5 crore has been brought in with funds sanctioned by the District Planning Committee (DPC).

 “Sometimes, we do as many as 70 echocardiographs per day. There is a huge inflow of patients at SSH. This state-of-the-art machine had become a necessity. It is not available in any of the government centres in the city and region. SSH is just waiting for the formal registration of the machine with the PCPNDT authorities. Once the process is done, we would start using it,” said Dr P P Deshmukh, associate professor of cardiology at SSH.
 
 The 4D Echo has several advantages over the earlier 2D Echo machine at the SSH. “It gives real time 3-dimensational images of the heart which help in very accurate and precise detection of the defect in any part of the heart. The blood flow when the heart squeezes is also visible during imaging process,” said Dr Deshmukh.
 
 Dr Deshmukh added that the volume measurements in this ultrasound machine is more precise and accurate. The pumping function of the heart-ejection fraction can be assessed in a much better way. “By just keeping a single probe on the body, it scans whole of the heart. Due to the depth component, it judges the volume of ventricular function of the right ventricle well,” he said. 
 
 Also, the machine allows to study the valve morphology very clearly and helps in detection of subtle ventricular function. “It also has a speckle tracking function which detects the functioning of the heart muscles and can catch the regional abnormalities very specifically. Overall, it helps in refining the diagnosis and treatment,” said Dr Deshmukh. 
 
 Dr Deshmukh further said that a 4- D echo picks left ventricular dysfunction fast and hence allows doctors to take necessary precautions during any procedure.
 
 The Officer on Special Duty (OSD) of SSH Dr MP Parchand said the 4-D echo machine was an advanced tool. “We are getting such tools thanks to the DPC funding, ” he said.
 
 Dr Mukund Deshpande, head of cardiology department and Dr Sunil Washimkar also explained the working of the machine and its advantages over the conventional ultrasound machine.
 
 
