KOLKATA: “Woh nadaan tha. He was immature or he would not have hurt a   What is being reported is only one part of the story,“ said  , uncle of  , who was arrested on January 24 after he rode into a   when the cop tried to stop him for riding his two-wheeler dangerously near the Don Bosco Island.

 The constable, Ravi Das, was thrown to the road, left with a fractured collar bone and multiple injuries.
 
 Wasim pointed out that they never allowed Fayed to ride a bike. “The bike he was riding that day belongs to his friend. Fayed was alone at home as he had to study for his Class XI exams that had started. Suddenly, he called up his father and said he was going out to fetch medicines for stomach upset. We had no inkling he would ride a bike. We are law-abiding citizens and know it is a crime to ride a bike without valid papers,“ said Wasim, with the rest of the family agreeing .
 
 A student at a reputable private school in Rajarhat, Fayed had just turned 18 in December and had been sent to judicial custody for two weeks, said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar. The family , however, claimed he was subsequently granted bail. “It has been a lesson for all of us, especially Fayed. He has missed two crucial exams. We tried to tell the cops it was not intentional,“ Wasim said, adding they would now be doubly careful when the teenager stepped out of the house. “He always travels by auto or bus. From now on, we may even accompany him to school,“ said one of his brothers who refused to be identified.
 
 Wasim claimed witnessed told him the constable tried to stop Fayed by catching hold of the bike handle. “Maybe, it could be avoided. Anyhow, a case has been registered. Fayed is also recovering from the injuries he incurred,“ he said.
 
 Back at the Park Circus traffic guard, where Das is posted, cops are still shocked at how the teenager drove into their colleague, throwing caution to the winds. On that day , an OC, additional OC, a sergeant and two constables were on duty near  , checking for rash driving.“Das saw the rider coming towards him at breakneck speed, without a helmet. He signalled the boy to stop. But to our utter disbelief, he rode into Das. In the impact, Das was flung in the air and then onto the road.He bled so much two of my handkerchiefs were soaked completely ,“ said a witness.
 
