KOLKATA: Even as an uneasy calm prevailed in   subdivision of North 24 Parganas on Saturday, chief minister   ordered a judicial inquiry into mischievous social media   — she called these ‘Fakebook posts’ — made by a few groups to spread distorted and fabricated images and texts with the sole aim of fanning communal passions in the state. She also termed the violence and arson in Basirhat and Baduria as “localised trouble”.

 Within hours of the CM announcing the judicial probe, the Kolkata Police’s cyber cell arrested a Sonarpur resident, Bhabatosh Chatterjee, for uploading a frame from a Bhojpuri film and passing it off as a ground report from Basirhat. 
 
 The state government also blacklisted two organisations — Hindu Samhati and Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) — for inciting communal passions. “BJP had used these two organisations in Bihar. We are not going to allow th-em to hold meetings and rallies in the state,” the CM said. 
 
 “Some people have gone to town with hate messages. They have lifted shots from a Bhojpuri film and uploaded them on   as pictures from Basirhat. Video footage from Comilla in Bangladesh is being displayed as happenings in Basirhat. These fabricated and inciting uploads have gone viral. I call these Fakebook posts though I have all my respects for Facebook. BJP leaders in Delhi are showing these footage from their party office. We are not going to tolerate this. The government will take strong action against the offenders. We will provide all our inputs to the judicial commission,” the CM said.
 
 A BJP delegation on its way to Basirhat was also stopped at Michael Nagar close to the city airport on Saturday. Three BJP MPs — Om Prakash Mathur, Satyapal Singh and Meenakshi Lekhi — who were part of the delegation were arrested. Brushing aside BJP’s allegation that her government was denying them access to Basirhat, the CM said, “They are raising a ruckus here while the BJP-run government in Madhya Pradesh is preventing the Opposition from reaching out to aggrieved farmers.” 
 
 Countering criticism that her government had failed to restore peace in the troubled zone, the CM blamed the Centre for letting the situation aggravate. “Everyone knows that Basirhat is close to the Indo-Bangla border. I am surprised that so many people from the other side of the border entered the troubled areas when central forces man the border. Isn’t it the Centre’s responsibility? I want to know who opened the border,” she said. 
 
 The administration didn’t lose sight of the role of the state police as well. In a shake-up of the district police brass, SP of North 24 Parganas Bhaskar Mukherjee and IG (South Bengal) Ajay Ranade were removed. On Friday, the inspector in-charge of Basirhat, Nasim Akhtar, had also been removed. The new SP of North 24 Parganas will be C Sudhakar, whose function will be overseen by DIG (economic offences) Tanmay Roy Chowdhury. Director (economic offences), Sanjay Singh, has taken over as IG (South Bengal). 
 
 
