NEW DELHI:   arrived two weeks early and eight years late for Shyam on Friday. The 20-year-old finally met his teenage sister Mamta for the first time since 2009, and though she cannot stay with him till she turns 18, he will need the time to get a house ready on his meagre security staff 's pay. For now, Shyam's mind is fixed on seeing her again on Raksha Bandhan, and he can't stop replaying the video of their reunion he shot on his phone.

 The meeting at Child Welfare Committee's   complex in Lajpat Nagar marked the end of Shyam's two year-long search for Mamta. He had little to go on, other than a memory of the building where they were brought before a magistrate and separated in 2009. It was a harrowing time for Shyam and Mamta, then aged 12 and 9. They were growing up fatherless in Kannauj, UP, when poverty forced their mother to move with them to Delhi. “Father died when we were very young and we came to Delhi with our mother,“ Shyam said. The family survived by begging at Kalkaji Temple, but in July 2009 the mother was crushed by a train while crossing the railway line at Okhla. Mamta was also injured in the accident, and TOI had reported the case in its July 23, 2009 edition. The children lost track of each other shortly therafter.
 
 Shyam remembers appearing before the CWC in a daze from the shock. Since boys and girls are housed in separate government shelters, he was taken to the home for boys in  . “I was clueless about Mamta's whereabouts. I did not know whom to ask." He was bullied by other boys at the home and ran away after some months. The next time police found him he was housed at the Alipur home, where he stayed till he turned 18.
 
 Had he stayed on at Jahangirpuri, Shyam would not have lost touch with his sister. Mamta, who now studies in class 12, told TOI she had informed officials at her own care home that she had a brother, but by the time they found out his address he had run away.
 
 On his release from the Alipur care home, Shyam made it his mission to find Mamta, who had lost all hope of seeing him again after hearing about his escape.
 
 It took him a while to locate the Lajpat Nagar CWC, which brought a flood of memories. The committee members were surprised to learn that Shyam had not been kept informed about his sister, but after digging through their records they were able to locate her, leading to their emotional reunion on Friday.
 
