LUCKNOW: The   lodged an   against baseless information being circulated on social media to malign the image of former chief minister   with the intention to disrupt communal harmony in the state. The FIR cited posts on social media in which it has been “wrongfully” said that Akhilesh as chief minister got several   constructed across the state and was responsible for demolition of over 500 temples in different districts of the state.

 Accusing Akhilesh of orchestrating killing of 64 Hindus in Muzaffarnagar riots and another 73 in similar incidents in Aligarh, the message is purportedly laced with expletives with the intention to defame the former CM, the complaint stated.
 
 The FIR lists over 30 of the 75 districts of the state in which temples were allegedly razed during Akhilesh Yadav’s regime, according to the message circulating on  . The post also questions construction of Haj house in Meerut and five other districts claiming that many new masjids were constructed during the SP rule.
 
 In the police complaint, SP has stated that the post was being circulated to spark communal tension in the state. The FIR was lodged on a complaint by former chief minister and SP national president’s private secretary Gajendra Singh at Gautampalli police station in Lucknow on March 22. 
 
 “The FIR was lodged almost a fortnight ago but no action has been initiated on the complaint till date,” said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary, questioning chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi’s claims of ensuring “rule of law” in the state. He said the police toned down the case by lodging an FIR under section 66 of the information technology act. “They have not even bothered to lodged the case under proper sections of the IT Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC), despite the fact that the post is aimed at a former CM and is threatens communal harmony,” he said.
 
 Gautum Palli police station in charge inspector Ashutosh Tripathi said the FIR had been lodged immediately after the complaint was received and investigations were underway. Police said though the complaint speaks of a social media message, it was silent on cellphone numbers or other platforms on which the message was being circulated but efforts were underway to identify the accused in the FIR.
 
