TRICHY: The farming community expressed disappointment as there was no announcement of waiver of crop loans in the budget.

 Farmers had been expecting that the loans would be written off by the Union government with the help of the black money recovered following demonetisation.
 
 “The budget has become an annual formality of the Union government. So in short this lackluster budget is not a budget for the farmers, working class people and government staff,” they said. 
 
 They said that to double the income of farmers, the production should also be doubled. But in reality it does not seem so. Creation of required infrastructure only can help in attaining the expected growth rate of 4.2 in the agriculture sector, they said. 
 
 “For several decades every government has been announcing their expected growth rate as 4 percent. However, nothing has fructified so far. No new water bodies or channels have been created. The government neither establishes any new infrastructure, nor renovates the existing ones. Without desilting of water channels, water bodies, no farmer can produce more and get their yield doubled,” said  , president,  . 
 
 The finance minister said that a dedicated micro irrigation fund will be set up for NABARD with Rs 5,000 crore initial corpus. Howver, Dhanapalan alleged that they had experienced many such announcements in the previous years which never materialized. 
 
 Meanwhile, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai   said that the enhancement of crop loans was a welcome move. But it was a disappointment for the farmers as there was no word about waiver of their loans. Since water is the main source for cultivation, the government should focus on river linking projects, he said .
 
 “Earlier the same BJP government allotted Rs 650 crore to study the feasibility to execute the project of linking of rivers. However, there was no mention about the proposal in the budget. As water crisis has been increasing across the country, it is the high time to re-think of the project,” he stressed.
 
 “When the entire state is reeling under severe drought, what is the use of the announcement of agri credit,” asked Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of  . 
 
 “It has been announced that a total of 5 lakh farm ponds will be taken up under MGNREGA. When thousands of lakes, ponds and irrigation channels are vanishing, instead of reviving the existing one, creation of new ponds will be an arduous task,” Nagarajan said, while adding that all existing water bodies which have been encroached upon should be identified and revived. 
 
