PATNA: Bihar   ( ) has extended the last date of fee   compartmental exam from July 12 to July 17. A decision to this effect was taken following requests by president of Bihar Secondary School Teachers’ Association Kedar Nath Pandey and several students who failed to make payment on time.

 Pandey said students and principals of several schools complained that their network failed to generate the challan form after the students successfully filled up the compartmental form. “It was more convenient to file hardcopy of the application form and submit the same along with fee at the regional centres of the board. The board should have given both choices – online and offline,” he said.
 
 BSEB chairman   said the board also received complaints regarding network problem. Over 2.34 lakh students will appear in Class X compartmental-cum-special examination of BSEB from July 27 to 31.
 
 Kishor said 1,590 students would be taking special examination as they were unable to sit for the Class X board exam due to personal and other reasons. “These candidates will write all papers. They would also give internal assessment examination besides submitting project work. The special arrangement for internal exams would be arranged by the schools concerned and the internal marks would be sent by the school principal to the board,” he said.
 
 Those appearing for compartmental exam will be allowed to write two papers in which they failed. Of the 17.23 lakh students, 8.56 lakh failed in Class X exam, the results of which were declared by BSEB recently.
 
 On July 27, English examination would be held in the first shift and science in second shift. First language paper (Urdu, Maithali, Hindi and Bengali) and social science would be held in first and second shift, respectively, on July 28. On July 29, students would appear for second language paper (Sanskrit, Farsi, Bhojpuri and Arabic) and mathematics in first and second shift, respectively. On concluding day (July 31), students would appear for home science, music and dance papers.
 
 Candidates taking compartmental examination would be given division in their mark sheet and ‘compartmental’ will not be mentioned. 
 
