CHANDIGARH: In pursuance of their   of checking   in Punjab,   has decided to conduct a   across the state so that efforts to help and   could be launched. Party volunteers have been provided with forms to get these filled with details of addicts in their areas and information from drug addiction centres.

 Party leaders who had applied for candidature during the assembly elections have been asked to mobilise volunteers to approach families having drug addicts. With this, the party hopes to get a head start on the drugs issue in case it forms the government. The party’s manifesto has also promised things such as help drug addicts with preferences in jobs. 
 
 Senior AAP leader H S Phoolka said it was a state-wide campaign to get rehabilitation forms filled by drug addicts to enable them to get free treatment at de-addiction centres. 
 
 Meanwhile, a section of party volunteers are wary of possible pitfalls related to the survey. For one, if the magnitude of the problem is not as much as AAP and Congress had alleged while in opposition, it will provide ammunition to the SAD-BJP to target AAP for bringing bad name to the state. Besides, added a volunteer, drug addicts may be wary of getting themselves identified, fearing that they could land in trouble. “There have been allegations in the past that the police passed off small-time drug addicts as peddlers,” he added.
 
 Around 5,000 forms have been given to each constituency and the candidates have distributed these among the volunteers, after which the compiled data will be uploaded on a google form.
 
 Meanwhile, SAD has maintained that the recent drug test done on four lakh youths who had participated in a police recruitment drive gave the figure of only 1.27 pc with regard to drug abuse. Similarly, a recent Army recruitment drive had revealed only 10 drug abuse cases out of 14,000 odd tested by the authorities.
 
 The issue of drug addiction in Punjab was first highlighted by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi during the previous assembly elections when he quoted a survey to claim that 70 per cent of youths of Punjab were drug addicts. Akalis had later clarified that the actual study by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) had a sample size of only around 900 drug addicts. The survey had claimed that drug addicts included 75.8 per cent were in the age group of 16-35 while 3 per cent comprised 6-10 year olds. A total of 85.6 per cent of the addicts were matriculates while agriculturists (37 pc) and labourers (27.5 pc) made the other big groups. The study had 150 respondents from each district with 75 from a village and 75 from a city.
 
 Possible Pitfalls 
 
 What if magnitude of drug addiction doesn’t prove AAP’s allegations?
 
 The promise to rehabilitate and provide jobs to addicts will be mammoth task
 
 Drug addicts may be wary of getting identified for fear of victimization
 
 
