Coimbatore: Two children have died of suspected viral hemorrhagic fever in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in a span of just eight hours. Both the children were admitted to the hospital with symptoms of the dengue shock syndrome, including fever, bleeding and hypotension shock. They, however, died before they could be tested for dengue, hospital authorities said. Sources, meanwhile, put the death toll due to “fever” at more than 15, since this July.

 According to the officials, 10-year-old Thaj Thabassum, a resident of Ganapathy, was admitted to the hospital at 12.20pm on Tuesday with signs of a viral hemorrhagic fever. She had fever and bleeding episodes from her extremities like nose and mouth. “She died at 6.20pm before we could test her for dengue,” said the resident medical officer, CMCH, Dr A Soundaravel.
 
 “The child had been reportedly suffering from fever for the past four days and she was treated as an outpatient by a doctor close to her house. The girl’s parents rushed her to the government hospital only after she developed bleeding,” he added.
 
 Hardly a few hours after Thaj’s death, a three-year-old girl from Chinniampalayam was admitted to the CMCH at 11.30pm on Tuesday. “She died at 2.20am on Wednesday before we could test her for dengue,” said another doctor at CMCH. “This child was brought to the hospital with severe hypotension shock and her organs were failing. She died in a few hours,” he added.
 
 The doctor pointed out that both the children were not regular patients of CMCH and had not come to the hospital earlier.
 
 Sources with the health department said at least 15 “fever” deaths had been reported in the district in less than three months. “We have noticed in all these cases fall in platelets and thrombocytopenia, hypovolemic shock and multi organ failure. And they all died after a few days of high fever followed by body pain and weakness,” said a senior doctor at the CMCH.
 
 Around 103 patients are being treated for viral fever at the CMCH. This is in addition to 19 dengue patients and two H1N1 virus patients. “The number of dengue cases has come down from the usual 40-50 patients to 19 in the past 10 days. Because of the recent rains and flow of fresh water in the canals, the frequency of aedes aegypti mosquito multiplying and spreading the virus will come down,” said Dr Soundaravel, adding, “We should prevent the virus when the water again begins to stagnate.”
 
 
