ALLAHABAD: The citizens of  , especially the medical fraternity, have expressed their deep concern over the failure of Delhi police to crack down on the accused in Dr   
  case.

 The citizens, including doctors and traders community, on Sunday evening took out a   carrying banners with slogans like "Justice for Shashwat" and "Serve justice - serve humanity, no more killing - no more blood". The candle march was taken out at Subhash crossing. 
  
 Dr Shashwant Pandey (26), hailing from Allahabad, was found murdered in the retiring room of St. Stephen's hospital in North Delhi in the intervening night of August 25 with his throat silt. He was associated with the radiology department of the hospital. 
 
 The family members alleged, "It's around one month now, since the incident and the accused is still absconding. Delhi police has made repeated efforts including announcement of a prize money, but so far this has not produced any substantial information about Dr Suyash's hideouts wanted in connection with the case." 
 
 "The family of Dr. Shashwat is shattered and in deep shock. The death of a talented doctor Dr Shashwat is a loss to the entire society. The accused is still at large and is a threat to the society and it would only be in the best interest of everyone that the accused is arrested so that he could be tried and punished for his crime," said a close friend of the family. 
 
 The citizens from different walks of the society have taken up a campaign on social media seeking justice for Dr. Shashwat. The campaign is being carried out with the theme "the life which was to save many lives - was brutally ended by a cold blooded murderer". 
 
 While taking out candle march, the close friends of the family also showed a 17-point fact file revealing that the accused was harassing the victim for over a period of one and half years despite several complaints received against Dr. Suyash Gupta with respect to his misconduct. Majority of complaints were made by Dr. Shashwat, but on a few instances doctors within the administration had also filed complaints against the conduct of Dr Suyash. 
 
