UDAIPUR:   due to lack of  .

 According to studies, 30% marginalized women are physically and   while 70% of   experience humiliation every day . Due to shortage of toilet facility, 23% of adolescent girls drop out from schools.
 
 Veer V , former director of Defense Research Laboratory (DRDO), Tezpur shared many of similar shocking data related to the lack of toilet facilities in the country .
 
 Veer's lecture in an international conference on `Issues and Challenges for Emergent Sustainable Development among SAARC Countries' held here by the Zoology department of Mo hanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU). It focused on affordable and appropriate sanitation solution through bio-toilets, a model developed at the DRDO's premier research lab at Gwalior and Tezpur (Assam).
 
 “The model was exhibited here at the conference venue.Delegates from Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and other SAARC nations appreciated this technology ,“ said Dr Arti Prasad, head of the Zoology department, MLSU. In his lecture Veer said, 55% of all Indians, approximately 597 million households, do not have access to any kind of toilet. With approximately 13 million bucket latrines which requires scavengers to conduct house to house excreta collection, over 7 lakh people still make their living this way . In the DRDO's bio-toilet model, a group of anaerobic microbial bacteria digests the fecal matter into water and biogas. The water is safe to reuse for flushing or gardening and thus reducing load on sewage system, he said.
 
 “The technology has various advantages with its simplicity of design and construction, customizable for individual families and community use. The technology is much better than the currently used septic tank system for disposal of fecal matter as it is high costing, takes more space and foul smelling,“ Veer claimed.
 
 The Bio-digesterBio tank technology is transferred to over 80 companies for implementation and it has been well accepted and utilized by the Railways to get rid of the nuisance of human faeces open discharge on railway trackplatforms.Hundreds of stainless steel made bio-digesters are in operation in different trains. It is planned to install these bio-digesters in all trains in the years to come.
 
 Lakshadweep administration has ordered 12,000 bio-digesters for all houses of its 10 islands. Low-cost single house bio-digesters have been designed for rural sector of the country which is long-lasting, require little space, generate environment-friendly safe effluent and does not require any maintenance.
 
