PUNE: Aviation analysts and experts have expressed dissatisfaction over the delay in the announcement of the final compensation-cum-rehabilitation package for landowners of Purandar taluka — the site of the proposed new airport project.

 “The project is huge and the district administration is acting upon the directions coming from the state government. If it had announced the package before the model code of conduct came into effect, the administration would have had time to iron out any dissatisfaction among the farmers. One needs to understand that as time passes, the cost of the project would increase,”  , an aviation expert and analyst, told TOI.
 
 The district administration officials had stated last week that the rehabilitation plan would be submitted after the civic body polls because of the model code of conduct. Experts as well as landowners feel its announcement has been delayed deliberately keeping the elections in mind.
 
 An industrialist, requesting anonymity, said the delay was politically motivated.
 
 “It is simple to understand. The project has been facing protests from the landowners after it was announced. The local MLA there (Vijay Shivtare) from the Shiv Sena has been facing the wrath. With the elections around the corner, the risk of announcing the package was not taken because it could raise an alarm,” he said.
 
 He said the NCP, the largest ruling party in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), had a sympathetic approach towards the landowners. “The landowners met NCP MP Supriya Sule and party chief Sharad Pawar. The civic elections are important and though no alliances have been announced between the parties so far, there have been talks about the BJP-Shiv Sena tie-up,” the industrialist said.
 
 Datta Dhurange, the president of the Vimantal Virodhi Sangharsh Samarthak Sanghatan, told TOI that the delay in the announcement of the rehab package was politically motivated.
 
 “We don’t want to comment right now, but one can see everything. The votes cannot be risked. Hence, the announcement (of the package) has been delayed. We are waiting and watching and will take necessary steps when the time comes,” Dhurange said.
 
  could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 Last week, Pune district collector Saurabh Rao had said the package was supposed to be tabled early last week. But with the election code of conduct coming into force on January 11, he said it would be presented for further studies once the results were declared on February 23. It was also decided to bring out a “hybrid” package after studying all the existing models.
 
 Vishwas M. Patil, the chairman-cum-managing director of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC), had told TOI earlier that the model code would not affect the announcement of the package. 
 
