MUMBAI: The first vital clue that led to the cracking of   came from her building's former watchman, who was traced to Lucknow. During the hunt for the accused who was proving slippery, the police got another boost when his friends in a   provided a photo they had taken together.

 Days after the murder came to light on June 12, cops left for Lucknow. During questioning, the watchman said he had seen earlier the man visible in the grainy CCTV footage leaving Kritika's building at around 2.30am on June 8. He had visited Kritika during midnight last Diwali.
 
 It came as a major breakthrough as the cops had been left clueless for almost a week because Kritika's phone did not show any contact with Shakeel Khan, 33, or his accomplice Basu Das, 40.They now began going further back on her call list. Between July 16 and 31 last year, they found Khan had made at least 12-13 calls and visited her flat to deliver drugs.
 
 “We now know Khan did not make any calls as he got arrested in August 2016. His number had got deactivated, but we managed to get SIM details and the address was in Malad.Khan wasn't there. So we got the call data record (CDR) and found a number from which he received calls frequently . It turned out to be his wife's,“ said an investigator.
 
 That number led the cops to Nallasopara, where they found his wife and five kids on July 1. “His wife said he had gone out for some work.Two days later, when we returned, Khan's house was locked. Neighbours directed us to the gym where Khan went and his friends gave us his photo. With the photo, we spoke to goods carriers around the area and found out that on the night of July 3, Khan had relocated to Malwani Gate no. 8,“ said the cop.
 
 When police raided the house, they found only household goods. With the scent becoming strong, the cops now zeroed in on Khan's relatives.During grilling, they learnt he might be hiding with a scrap dealer in Panvel.
 
 DCP (zone IX) Paramjit Singh Dahiya formed a team, comprising ACP Arun Chavan, Amboli senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad, inspectors Uday Rajeshirke and Nandkumar Gopale, assistant inspectors Gajanan Jogdande and Daya Nayak, and other staff, to trap Khan.The team scoured at least a 100 scrapyards before catching Khan on July 9 from his hideout at Panvel. Khan led the team to his accomplice Das in Govandi. Cops claimed both had confessed to the killing, allegedly over drug dues. On the night of the murder, the two had switched off their mobiles as they came to Kritika's flat. “The duo had a fight with Kritika and Khan hit her with a brass knuckle while Das strangled her,“ said a cop.They are in police custody till July 17.
 
 Before fleeing, Khan stole a neck chain, two diamond earrings and two rings and Rs 2,200 in cash. He sold the gold for Rs 25,000 in Nallasopara.
 
