NOIDA: Their ideologies might differ but all major political parties seem to share their love for wealthy candidates. However, Union minister  ,  , BJP candidate from  , is the “poorest” of them all. Most of the candidates declared by the two major parties and the SP-Congress alliance for the three constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar, have given tickets to crorepatis.

 While SP’s Sunil Chaudhary, owner of a building complex in Sector 18, is the richest candidate with assets worth over Rs 14 crore, BJP’s  , a farmer leader who is contesting from Jewar constituency is the second on the wealth table, holding assets worth over Rs 8 crore.
 
 Most of the candidates who have been given tickets by the three competitors have described themselves as “farmers” or “businessmen” or “self-employed”.
 
 An analysis of the election affidavit details filed by candidates of the major political parties in the fray suggests that Pankaj Singh is the “poorest” among the district’s candidates with assets aounting to less than Rs 50 lakh.
 
 In the column for occupation, Pankaj has not described any kind of service or business but said that he is a “PGDM (postgraduate diploma in management). He has said that he does not hold any inheritance or immoveable property, not even a house. He has declared that his moveable assets amount to over Rs 47 lakh. However, Pankaj’s wife, Sushma Singh, an international-level coach and shooter holds immoveable assets worth over Rs 2.53 crore.
 
 Pankaj’s children together own assets worth over Rs 3 lakh. While 10-year old Diya Singh has moveable assets worth Rs. 3,36,269 in the form of savings bank account and life insurance, five-year old Aryavir Singh too has Rs 10,876 in his bank account.
 
 BSP’s farmer leader Vedram Bhati, who will fight for the Jewar seat, is the third wealthiest candidate with assets worth over Rs 7 crore. His wife too owns assets including moveable ones and inheritance amounting to Rs 77,98,600/=.
 
 Many candidates have very rich wives too. Farmer leader Sameer Bhati from Congress, who is standing for the SP-Congress alliance has declared assets worth Rs 3.5 crore. His wife, whom he has described as a homemaker, owns assets worth Rs 14,25,000/=.
 
 The only candidate with an academic background — serving as the principal of Saint Vinoba Bhave Inter College at Vaidpura in Greater Noida, is also a crorepati. Tejpal Bhati, who will fight for the BJP from the Dadri constituency, has declared assets worth over Rs 2 crore. According to his declaration in the affidavit to the returning officer for the Dadri seat, his wife, a homemaker, owns assets worth over Rs 9 lakh.
 
 BSP’s Noida candidate Ravikant Mishra too owns assets worth over Rs 4 crore while his wife owns assets worth Rs 1,96,20,099/=.
 
 In keeping with the remaining candidates, SP’s Narendra Nagar, a farmer, has assets worth over Rs 2.37 crore while Satveer Singh Gurjar, the sitting MLA from Dadri, owns assets worth over Rs 1.19 crore.
 
 
