NEW DELHI: Back in 2012, two-time MP from  ,   wrote a will in which he said when he dies his body should be cremated on the banks of the Narmada. The man who would later be   further instructed: “No memorial should be erected anywhere in my name. If you want to cherish my memories, plant trees and save them. This would give me pleasure”.

 The environment was dear to Dave as were rivers for whose conservation he worked tirelessly all his life. It is ironic and not a little tragic, that he breathed his last in the dust bowl of Delhi, a city whose pollution he made an earnest effort to combat. He was rushed to AIIMS after he complained of uneasiness, shortness of breath and chest pain around 9 am on Thursday morning. “All possible measures were taken immediately, but he could not survive and declared dead around 9.45 am,” said AIIMS in an official statement in the afternoon, noting that he was brought to the hospital in a stage of cardiacarrest.
 
 Dave was 60. He is the second union minister of Modi government to have died in office. “Anil Madhav Dave ji will be remembered as a devoted public servant.
 
 He was tremendously passionate towards conserving the environment. I was with Anil Madhav Dave ji till late last evening, discussing key policy issues. This demise is a personal loss”, the PM Modi said.
 
 The PM who later also tweeted Dave’s will of 2012, said, “This document is a manifestation of simplicity & selflessness in public life. It is an illustration of Nishkama Karma Yoga”.
 
 Reports said his last rites will be performed at Bandrabhan on the banks of Narmada river in Hoshangabad district on Friday. Dave was associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh from his childhood.
 
 He was elected to the Rajya Sabha first in 2009 and had been on various committees of Parliament. He was re-elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2016 and became the environment minister in Julylast year. As a chairman of the select committee, Dave had played a key role in framing the real estate regulation bill.
 
