LUCKNOW: After   Metro, the Aditya Nath   government is all set to re-inaugurate another flagship project of the previous Samajwadi Party regime—the Lucknow-Agra  .

 State cabinet minister (industrial development) Satish Mahana confirmed that the expressway will be re-inaugurated after it is complete, probably in the New Year. “Any project should be dedicated to the people only after it is absolutely ready for public use. The   government had inaugurated the expressway much before it was complete. They (SP leaders) knew they were not coming back to power so they inaugurated the project in a haste,” Mahana told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The minister said a host of facilities, including toll plazas and service areas for commuters have yet to be put in place. “The expressway will take three to four months to be ready, after which it will be dedicated to public,” he said.
 
 The development evoked sharp reaction from Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, who lashed out at the BJP for taking credit of projects launched and completed during his regime. “Lucknow-Agra expressway was inaugurated during my rule. I dare BJP government to come up with its own projects and inaugurate them,’’ he said.
 
 The 302km expressway, inarguably longest in the country and constructed at an estimated cost of around Rs 15,000 crore, was inaugurated by Akhilesh on the 77th birthday of his father, SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, on November 21, 2016. At the launch of the ambitious project that promises to cut travel time between Lucknow and Agra from six hours to three-and-a-half hours, a fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force landed on the expressway near Unnao. Akhilesh had since been propping the expressway as one of the biggest achievements of his government and challenging the Yogi government to come up with a similar project. In fact, in the run-up to UP assembly elections, Akhilesh had said, “Even PM Narendra Modi would vote for Samajwadi Party if he drove on the expressway”.
 
 In April, a month after coming to power in UP, the BJP ordered a probe into purchase of land made for the expressway in last 18 months in as many as 230 villages around the expressway and the project has since been under investigation. There have been allegations that to extract more profits from the government, some land owners managed to get land use of agricultural land changed to residential.
 
 Earlier, on September 6, Yogi and Lucknow MP Union home minister Rajnath Singh re-inaugurated the Lucknow Metro project, evoking strong reactions from SP supporters, who staged protest at Metro stations, forcing police to resort to caning. Akhilesh reiterated that the Metro project came through only because his government took personal interest in providing a modern public transport facility to people of Lucknow.
 
 
