HYDERABAD: The poliovirus discovered in samples collected from the   last year did not replicate and form a potent strain,   (WHO) has said.

 It linked the discovery of the virus in September-October 2016 to unauthorised use of trivalent   after its withdrawal from the market.
 
 India shifted to bivalent oral polio vaccine in April last year but the trivalent vaccine was used unofficially by doctors and pharmacists, resulting in the virus escaping into the river through human waste.
 
 While a trivalent vaccine fights three types of polio viruses (type 1, 2 and 3), the bivalent vaccine is effective against type 1 and 3. Since trivalent vaccine was used illegally , the type-2 poliovirus made its way into the Musi through municipal drains that empty into the river.
 
 A WHO team, which studied the Musi poliovirus, submitted its report recently , and it was published in the January 6 issue of WHO's Weekly  . “The isolated polio viruses had not replicated sufficiently to accumulate more than a few mutations to become more potent,“ it said.
 
 The WHO report warns that future detection of the virus should be taken very seriously as it could have serio us impacts on the health of young children.
 
 The WHO team studied four samples collected from Hyderabad (between September 2 and October 4, 2016) and one sample from Ahmedabad (August 30) after they tested positive for vaccinederived type-2 poliovirus.
 
 It said these viruses were detected more than four months after April 25, 2016 when India officially ceased use of trivalent oral poliovirus vaccine and switched to bivalent. “The four-month time interval between the date of the switch from trivalent to bivalent and the detection of type-2 poliovirus suggests that trivalent use may have continued after global cessation, thus risking the creation of new type-2 vaccinederived polioviruses, which can cause paralytic poliomyelitis,“ the WHO team said.
 
 The trivalent vaccine had most likely been used within the previous four months, it added. According to the WHO report, officials began detailed investigations within 48 hours of detection of the polioviruses in Hydera bad and Rangareddy district in Telangana, and Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Searches in Hyderabad and Rangareddy on October 5, 2016 led to seizure of 37 trivalent oral polio vaccine vials.
 
 Cautioning health authorities to be more cautious about any future detections of type-2 virus, the WHO report warned that the progressive decrease in people's immunity to type-2 polio virus (after introduction of bivalent vaccine) leads to a greater likelihood of a serious disease outbreak.
 
