BENGALURU: Has chief minister Siddaramaiah’s plan of presenting a populist budget for 2017-18 been checkmated following the Election Commission’s announcement of bypolls for Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly constituencies?

 This was the question doing the rounds in political corridors on Friday, with the poll code of conduct having come into force. While the EC is yet to spell out what Siddaramaiah shouldn’t announce in the budget he is scheduled to present on March 15, the Congress fears it might be compelled to tamp down populist schemes. 
 
 Meanwhile, the opposition BJP submitted a representation to the EC on Friday, seeking a direction to the Siddaramaiah government to not declare any new schemes in the run up to the bypolls.
 
 While the byelections, which have become a battle of egos between Siddaramaiah and BJP state chief B S Yeddyurappa, will be held on April 9, the counting of votes is scheduled on April 13. 
 
 But with the budget date clashing with the poll schedule, Siddaramaiah’s hopes of riding high on a populist budget may be dashed. BJP leader Suresh Kumar said: “The budget has to be mandatorily approved by March 31; let the CM present it. But we have requested the EC to ensure the budget should not become an election manifesto for the Congress. Any announcement of populist schemes in the budget is likely to influence the voters of the two constituencies, which amounts to electoral malpractice. Announcement of populist schemes will put opposition parties in a disadvantageous position.”
 
 The BJP’s apprehension evoked a terse reaction from Siddaramaiah. He retorted: “Don’t the BJP leaders have common sense? Didn’t Union finance minister   present the budget when polls for five states including Uttar Pradesh were under way?” The Congress maintained the BJP was getting desperate in the run-up to the polls and hence, was mixing issues to create confusion in people’s minds.
 
 An official in the chief minister’s office told TOI: “The budget date was decided much in advance and preparations are on. Moreover, we have not received any communication from the EC. If there is any directive, it will probably be confined to the two assembly constituencies where the bypolls are being held.”
 
 An EC official said: “We will discuss the issue and take an appropriate decision. Usually, in such circumstances, the government is not supposed to announce programmes that are specific to the places which are going to polls.”
 
 
 
 
 In fact, this is precisely the directive that was given to the Union government earlier this year when elections for the five states had been announced. While the Congress and other parties demanded postponement of the budget (scheduled to be announced on February 1) stating that it would influence voters, Jaitley had denied allegations that the budget date had been advanced with an eye on the polls.
 
