KOLKATA: Hospitalisation costs in urban Bengal are higher than the national average, latest findings by the   show.

 It is higher even if total medical costs are divided into two broad heads -medical expenses and “other expenses“. Other expenses include allied costs like attendant charges, physiotherapy , personal medical appliances, blood, oxygen and consumables such as gloves, bandages and plasters.
 
 This perhaps explains why people in Bengal would still choose to get admitted in a public hospital rather than a private healthcare facility , which is completely reverse to the trend in other larger states. While 526 out of every 1,000 patients in Bengal choose a public hospital, the national average is just 320. Private hospitals in Bengal re ceived 474 out of every 1,000 patients hospitalized, which is far lower than the national average of 680.
 
 One of the reasons for the high average cost could be lack of insurance cover for the vast majority of patients in Bengal, feels cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. But he is not surprised by the steep allied expenses. “Insurance helps to cap costs, which doesn't happen in Bengal.Other states have a bigger po pulation of insured patients.So far as the other expenses are concerned, the reason is the lack of packages. For some strange reason, our hospitals have been gradually moving away from packages to a more fragmented and itemized billing system, which is pushing up costs. It is also making patient parties more suspicious of the charges,“ said Sarkar. The NSSO's findings, which formed a part of their re port on `Key Indicators of Social Consumption in India: Health', throws up many curious facets. Published in June 2015, the results were compiled after a detailed survey of 2,592 rural and 2,427 urban households in Bengal from January to June, 2014. Bengal has an estimated 1,43,608 rural and 66,831 urban households.
 
 According to the data tables, the average hospitalization cost in urban Bengal is Rs 27,249. The average hospitalization cost in urban India is Rs 26,455. If this cost is broken into medical expenses for hospitalization, in urban Bengal it works out to an average of Rs 24,875; in urban India, it is Rs 24,436. The other charges which add up to inflate the hospitalization bills in urban Bengal works out to an average of Rs 2,374; again higher than the national average of Rs 2,019.
 
 If compared to the urban parts of many other states show much higher hospitalization costs. But it is only Bengal, where “other expenses“ as a percentage of total hospitalization costs is higher -8.71%. In Chandigarh it is 5.59; in Delhi it is 6.25; in Maharashtra 4.94.
 
 In perspective, states that show higher average urban hospitalization rates, private healthcare facilities seem to take a larger burden of the sick than public or state-run hospitals.States that have much lesser average urban hospitalisation costs than urban Bengal depend more on private healthcare facilities. Bengal bucks this trend.
 
 Since the cost structure of corporate hospitals was determined by factors that were nationally uniform, there shouldn't be much difference, felt   , the chairman of Medica.
 
 AMRI Hospitals CEO   agreed. “It is probably due to the fact that the survey takes into account a vast number of semi-urban hospitals that our average cost looks high.“
 
