CHENNAI: Celebrations and disappointments come hand in hand with results. While some faces will light up with jubilation, some others may droop with distress, but accepting them is the most important aspect of a  , say counsellors.

 With the Class 12 results due on Friday, counsellors have advised students and parents to keep their cool and take the outcome in the right spirit. “Students need to understand is that there are multiple avenues to explore. They should not lose hope if results are not up to their expectations,” said Prabhu Doss of the 104 state helpline.
 
 Experts say with several sectors seeking manpower and specialised skills, students should not restrict their talent and be open to different opportunities if plans do not work out. Counsellors advise students that accepting failure is a big step in working towards their future goals. “Students should take up the challenge and focus on rewriting the exam if they fail. They should work on improving their memory and study techniques and focus on your strengths instead of getting carried away,” said a counsellor.
 
 The sudden announcement by the   government to do away with the   may have surprised many students who were until Thursday hoping to secure state ranks. However, counsellors said the announcement would help reduce peer pressure and end the constant comparison among students.
 
 SNEHA helpline’s founder   welcomed the move by the government. “Even with 97 or 98 marks, students at times feel miserable just because they didn’t get the topper tag or the highest rank in the state. For students who feel disappointed by this announcement, be happy that you can rejoice in your success without pressure of looking at the ranks. It doesn’t undermine anybody’s achievement,” she said.
 
 This year, the uncertainty surrounding NEET has put a lot of pressure on science students and since they were appearing for multiple exams simultaneously, many might have felt overpowered by the situation. Counsellor say this confusion may have led to more anxiety on result day.
 
 For parents who have nurture high hopes, Vijaykumar had a word of advice. “This is the time children need their parents. Care more for the children than marks. Do not compare to others performances or admonish them for their mistakes immediately after results are declared. This is not the time for scolding. Discussions can be had later to calmly look at what went wrong,” she said.
 
 Helpline numbers: State   (under the health and family welfare department) – 104. SNEHA helpline - 044-2464 0050, 2464 0060.
 
