 patriarch M Karunanidhi’s upcoming birthday will see Chennai turning into a venue for political bonding of major Opposition parties that have been making efforts to come together on an anti-BJP platform in the last several weeks in the run-up to the presidential polls.
 
  Congress' vice-president Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad are likely to represent the party for the event. The Karunanidhi-led DMK, which has been a traditional third front partner and has shared power with almost all regional parties at the Centre, is using its political connectivity to ensure maximum possible participation of non-NDA regional parties for the event. They include turf rivals in many states and parties who have a rivalry with the Congress too.
  
  Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and leaders of CPM, CPI, RSP and Forward Bloc are expected to be in Chennai to attend the ‘birthday bash’.
  
  Top leaders of Janata Dal United, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Indian National Lok Dal, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Janata Dal Secular, National Conferen-Trinamool Cong chief Mamata Banerjee and leaders of CPM, CPI, RSP and Forward Bloc are expected to attend Karunanidhi’s   ET ARCHIVE ET ARCHIVE ce and Biju Janata Dal also are expected to participate in the event.
  
  Political circles said that while felicitating   will be the official agenda, the main political course will be exchange of views on the efforts for an anti-BJP unity and common stand for the presidential polls.
  
  The presidential election has provided a good pretext for parties opposed to BJP to try to forge unity among Opposition parties. The ruling National Democratic Alliance led by the Bharatiya Janata Party has numbers on its side, as far as the presidential polls are concerned, after ‘neutral’ parties such as YSR Congress and Telangana Rashtriya Samiti announcing support to NDA. However, NDA is yet to announce its candidate.
  
  The Opposition had earlier con-cluded that a contest can be avoided only if the NDA can persuade incumbent Pranab Mukherjee for a second term. JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar and Trinamool leader Mamata Banerjee followed this up by making their preference for Mukherjee this week.
  
  In another development, the Congress leadership has decided to deploy many senior leaders across state capitals to hold news conferences on May 26, to highlight the party's critique of the track record of the NDA government which completes three years in office on that date. 
