Chennai: The crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses in UP, Jharkhand, MP, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan will hit the inputs of the leather industry. Factories and tanneries, which use raw material from the slaughter houses, are seeing a 20-40% increase in prices, owing to shortage of supply.

 Factory owners say that this situation will affect the already-suffering leather industry, which is impacted owing to unfavourable market conditions in Europe. Leather exports fell 4.5% in FY 17.
 
 Javed Iqbal, a factory owner in Kanpur, is already seeing a 40% increase in prices due to reduced supply and stocks are running out. “We hope the situation eases out; else we may contemplate moving to another city. We cannot defy the state government’s orders, he said. The cluster in Kanpur exports Rs 20,000 crore worth leather shoes and upholstery to Europe, Middle East and USA. Uttar Pradesh alone supplies close to 50% of the buffalo hide required.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, while there is no immediate impact, factories are in wait-and-watch-mode. They expect the reduction in inputs to hit them in the next 2-3 weeks. With the clusters estimating over 78% of the inputs from North, the industry would have to depend on imports.
 
  “As such sales are down. We can look at importing, but the raw material costlier by 30-40%. We might have to sustain losses,” said Rafeeque Ahmed, chairman Farida group. India already imports 10-15% raw material( animal skin) from Russia, Brazil and Africa and higher grade leather from Europe. Some factories add that they have stopped purchasing raw material to process orders. Compensating losses by increasing the prices of exports is not possible, factories add, as the orders are made on a need basis with quotations discussed in advance. “Also, we might have to lose out on competition to players like Brazil, where products are available at lower prices,” said Mukhtarul Amin, chairman, Council For Leather Exports.
 
 However, Amin adds that the impact would be short-lived, as only unhygienic slaughterhouses, which don’t adhere to norms, will be taken down and they will soon be replaced by more compliant ones. “In Kanpur itself, one new slaughterhouse was commissioned with an investment of Rs 5 crore and it is a matter of time before they invest more to comply with the norms. The industry would recuperate in the next 3 to 6 months,” he said. 
 
 
