AHMEDABAD: In a setback for  , an important witness in the   turned hostile before the  

 Last week, the prosecution examined first material witness in Adnan Gujarati from Surat. He was a witness to the alleged incidents when accused persons in the case met to hatch a conspiracy to plant bombs in Surat. Fifteen bombs planted in Surat did not go off and were found out at different places across the city on July 27, 2008, a day after 19 bombs rocked Ahmedabad and killed 56 persons.
 
 When Gujarati was questioned by the prosecution, he retracted from what he had narrated before the police in 2008 and denied of being part of the gathering that had allegedly taken place to plan planting of the bombs in Surat. The prosecution declared him hostile and later cross-examined him on his statements that he was made to sit for hours and days by cops and coerced out the statement suitable to their theory from him, sources said.
 
 The prosecution questioned him why he did not file any complaint or raise the issue before any forum about the alleged coercion in last nine years. Gujarati was the first witness out of 885 witnesses examined in the trial till date.
 
 Meanwhile, a panch witness Kunvarji Thakor identified an accused Ismail Raziq before the court on Wednesday. Thakor was witness to the recreation of crime scene at Sarkhej, when Raziq allegedly planted a bomb in an AMTS bus.
 
 During his cross-examination, Thakor said that he did not find any difference in appearance of the accused person or much of a change in his attire too even after nine years.
 
 Earlier, numerous panch witnesses, who testified for recreation of crime scenes, refused to identify the blast accused on the ground that they have grown beards and their appearances have changed a lot.
 
 Interestingly, the prosecution had unsuccessfully requested the court to permit its witnesses to identify the accused persons on basis of their old photographs because they have grown beard, put on weight and after all these years it would be difficult for witnesses to identify them in court.
 
 
