NAGPUR: The two tribal women from Chhattisgarh’s Bande block told the high court on Monday that they did not suffer any sexual exploitation in the custody of Gadchiroli’s C-60 commandos. This testimony completely trashed claims by some tribal rights activists, described as ‘Naxal frontal organizations’ by the cops, that the women were illegally detained and sexually exploited by commandos on the night of January 20.

 A division bench of   at Nagpur comprising justice BR Gavai and justice Indira Jain disposed of the petitions filed by   (HRLN) advocate Nihalsingh Rathod on Monday after hearing the women. They were heard in-chamber, where only their counsels were present apart from a translator and senior police officials.
 
 The bench, allowing the tribal women to return to their native place with their brother and uncle, observed that women have ‘emphatically’ denied any act of sexual assault on them by the police. In its order, the bench also mentioned the women were ‘compelled’ by Sheela Gota, sarpanch of Gatta Jambia, to inform petitioner in writ no 71/2017 (advocate Rathod) about the so-called sexual violence, which had not taken place.
 
 Earlier, as the arguments between the counsels became heated, the bench expressed its intention to hear the incident from the ‘horse’s mouth’, and directed production of the women before the judges. The two petitions were swiftly concluded after the women gave the cops the clean chit.
 
 The petitions had been filed by Rathod on January 25 and 29, seeking production and release of the tribal women from the custody of the police. The first petition was filed by Rathod on behalf of one of the women’s brother Gillu Gota, for production of the tribal women admitted at Gadchiroli district hospital, for verification of sexual assault allegations in police custody.
 
 The second petition had been pressed urgently after the tribal women and activist couple Sainu Gota and his wife Sheela, and their close aide Mangesh Holi, were rounded up from Rathod’s office at Civil Lines, while they were preparing affidavits. A special emergency hearing of the high court on Sunday led to the justices suggesting the matter come up before the regular bench on Monday, with the tribal women transferred to the custody of the government correctional home so as to prevent any police or pressure.
 
 When arguments kicked off on Monday, HRLN’s counsel Gayatri Singh tried to convince the court regarding police arbitrariness, including keeping the women under pressure, while additional government pleader SM Ukey defended the actions of Gadchiroli cops.
 
 Counsel Singh, present with Rathod and Surendra Gadling, argued the police had still not filed an FIR in the case of alleged sexual exploitation of the two tribal women by C60 commandos, and cops also flouted norms for medical examination of rape survivors. “On the contrary, police filed a case of abduction against the activists (Sainu Gota), who helped the women come to the city to file affidavits. The women were screaming and crying when police were forcibly taking them away from their lawyer’s office,” she said before the court.
 
 The court, while hearing the arguments, questioned Singh whether she felt the entire machinery, including government medical officers of Gadchiroli, were part of the fabrication to suppress the complaint against police. The bench also mentioned that probationary officer of correctional home Meera Yelne did not observe any pressure on the expression of the tribal women in the last two days.
 
