BENGALURU: A group of   and   cab drivers, protesting against what they deem unfair practices of the aggregators, are thinking of striking out on their own. With the intention of launching operations, an application is being built, which is reportedly in the final stages of development.

 The union leaders said that they wished to name their service HDK cabs, since the JD(S) state president   supported them when they went on strike.
 
 However, Kumaraswamy, who met with the drivers on Saturday, told TOI, “After the government failed to intervene and solve the problems they had with Ola and Uber, I suggested they start their own service. Nothing has been finalised yet.”
 
 Pointing out that he warned the drivers that the business would not be profitable, he added, “But I believe it will help the drivers and the citizens. As for the name is concerned, they have been circulating images of cabs with my name, but that has not been finalised either.”
 
 However, the drivers, who have been protesting for nearly two months, appear confident of launching the service. Tanveer Pasha, Ola, Taxiforsure and Uber Drivers and Owners Association president, who spearheaded the protest, will be a member of the new company’s core committee. 
 
 “Kumaraswamy helped us when we went on protest. He suggested we start a new-app based cab company, and after a number of discussions, he has agreed that we can use his name,” Pasha said. 
 
 Pasha added that Kumaraswamy was willing to lend help to set up the company. “He has agreed to bear the one-time cost for setting up the app, and the server, in addition to calling technical experts to handle the company,” Pasha said.
 
 However, the former CM maintained that nothing had been finalised.
 
 Pasha said that more than 35,000 drivers had evinced interest in joining the new company. “The commission they will have to pay the company will be fixed at 10%. Right now, Ola and Uber charge from 25 to 30% as commission,” he said.
 
 Pasha said that drivers would also be provided other benefits. “There are plans to allot Rs 10 lakh for medical insurance per driver, from a drivers’ welfare fund that will be raised from the earning of drivers. Maintenance and insurance will be paid by the company, and profits shared with drivers,” he added.
 
