NAWANSHAHR: Three youths, who first looted a   from Ludhiana in the afternoon and then an   from a cop at a police naka in Nawanshahr district, were nabbed after a fierce gun battle with the police near Urapar village on   on Friday. 

 In a late evening press conference, Jalandhar zone IG Arpit Shukla said following an alert on car thieves, police personnel had set up a naka on Rahon-Machhiwara bridge. As cops saw the car and indicated it to stop, the vehicle tried to speed away and hit a barrier in the process.
 
 Shukla said when a policeman tried to catch one of the occupants from the car’s windowpane, the accused snatched his AK-47 rifle and sped away the car towards Rahon.
 
 A red alert was sounded in the surrounding districts and senior officers including Shukla, Ludhiana range DIG Yurinder Singh Hayer and Khanna SSP Navjot Singh Mahal rushed towards Nawanshahr with a force. Till that time, Nawanshahr SSP Satinder Singh was supervising the operation to catch the criminals. 
 
 IG Shukla said police then got to know that the criminals had looted a motorcycle at gunpoint from near Bharta village. At a naka near Urapar village, a police party led by DSP Nawanshahr spotted the three youths going on a motorcycle. As cops indicated them to stop, they sped away. Police started giving them a chase.
 
 The IG said the accused then started firing indiscriminately at the police party forcing it to retaliate. Sohan Lal, a resident of Burj Tehal Dass village, was injured by a bullet fired by the criminals.
 
 When they were being chased, another police party led by DSP Banga blocked the Urapar road. Realizing that they had been surrounded, the youths tried to run away leaving the motorcycle behind, but were caught by the cops. Besides the AK-47 rifle, two country-made pistols and cartridges were also seized from them.
 
 The accused were identified as Harjit Singh, Baljit Singh and Vishal Kumar, all residents of Tajpur Road, Ludhiana. Police said they were wanted in several criminal cases and more disclosures were expected during their questioning. 
 
 Meanwhile, the injured was admitted to the Nawanshahr civil hospital.
 
