HYDERABAD: Two Indians in Qatar who say they were stripped to their undergarments and savagely whipped with a hunter rope by their employer are pleading to be rescued.

 The injuries and blood on their backs, hands, thighs and legs, seen in a video sent by them, reveal the beastly treatment meted out to them, allegedly by their employer.
 
 Parvez Ahmad (24) of Sant Kabir Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, and   (27), also from Uttar Pradesh went to Qatar about four months ago on a Pune agent’s promise of a decent job there.
 
 To their utter shock, when they landed in that country, they were taken to an animal farm and asked to take care of camels and goats in a village on the Saudi-Qatar border. Parvez went on a work visa issued by Qatar that mentions his sponsor’s name as  . The agent in India who sent them there is named  .
 
 Though his visa says he was recruited as a driver and has a residency duration of five years, he was taken to the border village and told to take care of camels and goats.
 
 In a voice message, Parvez, a graduate, claimed their employer beats them mercilessly. “Mai Qatar aur Saudi border se 100-150 km door main road par Tohaliya petrol pump se purab ke taraf 20-25 km door hoon (I am on the main road about 100-150 km from the Qatar-Saudi border and about 20-25 km west of Tohaliya petrol pump),” Parvej said. “It is better to be thrown in jail than suffer like we are suffering,” he told TOI in the voice message, adding that they wanted to be rescued.
 
 Aftab Alam, a friend of Parvez in Delhi, gets regular updates from Parvez.
 
 The marks made by the whip and the blood on the back of Mohammed Akram, whose photographs have also been sent, show what Parvez and Akram are being subjected to in Qatar.
 
 They live in such fear that Parvez said if their employer learnt they had sought rescue he might shift them somewhere else and tell embassy officials and police they had run away. “The employer should not be believed. He should be pressured to reveal where he has kept us,” Parvez pleaded.
 
 
 
 
