Chennai: Till last week, 59-year-old A Jairajan was a head constable-cum-driver with the Railway Protection Force (RPF) whose existence very few outside his official circles knew of. But from May 8, almost everyone who enters the badminton court in Integral Coach Factory (ICF) premises will see his name on the inauguration plaque.

 “I was not told about this till the last minute. It came as a huge surprise and I felt honoured when I was asked to inaugurate the event,” Jairajan, who retires in December, told TOI.
 
 Like Jairajan, several other senior railway employees, who are no high ranking officials, have found themselves inaugurating various amenities in ICF, ever since S Mani took over as General Manager. Mani has reversed the usual practice in railway which is for all plaques to have the name of top-most official or other senior officials.
 
 All these now bear the name of the senior most railway employee in that particular unit, even if it might be a group D employee. Such recognition from the senior-most official has come as a huge confidence boost to employees that finally their contribution is being acknowledged.
 
  Armed with the goodwill from his employees, Mani has also tightened up the screws in ICF which for years had issues with staff absenteeism, corruption, cleanliness and alcoholism. He has also implemented the biometric attendance system on the shop floors as well as administrative offices and pumped in funds in refurbishing parks, sports facilities and staff quarters.
 
 Close to 70 employees have been issued either suspension or termination orders in the past eight months, which has sent ripples among the ICF employees. Apart from absenteeism, the other issues which were targetted were subletting of railway quarters to non-railway people, sexual harassment of women in workplace and the general indiscipline.
 
 A senior official said that Mani was a complete workaholic and demanded the best from everyone. “Previous GMs visited shop floors once a week; Mani goes three-four times every-day, unannounced and without a cavalcade of senior officials, so that the work is not disturbed,” he said.
 
 Mani told TOI that majority of the workforce was disciplined, but there were a few bad apples. “There are some issues that cannot be tolerated,” he said.
 
 EOM
 
 
