Tamarind, dried kokum fruit skin, and fresh and dried bimbli, may be the most popular souring agents in Goan cuisine. But there is yet another souring agent, which is now lesser known — the vatamba fruit.

 The vatamba or ottam or vat fruit grows in the wild and in its unripe form resembles a small sized green apple from afar. The tender fruit is sliced, seed, skin and all, into semi-circular shapes, salted and dried during the summer, and stored for use through the year.
 
 Rapid urbanization has restricted its use only to remote and forested areas of Goa today. Lesser availability means forgotten knowledge of the food, which often leads to it being mistaken for kokum. But vatamb actually belongs to the jackfruit family of trees, its botanical name being artocarpus lakoocha.
 
 “It has to be soaked for 15 to 20 minutes in water before it is used in cooking. You need to use it in more quantity than the kokum sollam as it is milder in its sourness,” said Narendra Naik, a resident of Canacona.
 
 Malini Pandurang Shetye, a Mayem-based homemaker, said that it also gives a slightly different flavour to the food than the sharp sourness of kokum sollam. “It can be used just as we use kokum sollam, in cooking moonga tondak, chanaya tondak and fish curry. Vata sollam are never ground, but added directly when the gravy comes to a boil, just like kokum,” she said.
 
 Vatamb sollam are believed to be especially good when used in cooking dry fish curries. Its milder sourness means that it is a safer option if you tend to suffer from acidity.
 
 Cooking the yam or suran with vatamb sollam helps beat the irritation that can be caused in the mouth when eating suran.
 
 “The vatamb fruit turns yellowish when ripe and it has a sour-sweet taste. Though it is rarely eaten as a fruit, it is edible in this ripe form too. I remember eating it as a child because it was available in plenty at my maternal home in Naroa,” said Shetye.
 
 Just outside of Goa’s borders, vatamb sollam are used as the key ingredient in a chutney. The vatamb sollam are soaked in water for around 20 minutes.
 
  A few garlic pods, cloves, a green chili and a dry chili roasted in oil are ground to a coarse paste along with the soaked sollam, salt and grated coconut. And, you have an interesting new variety of chutney. Vatamb sollam can also be thrown into sambar.
 
 These vatamb sollam are now available for purchase on many sites online, which mistakenly label it ‘kokum phool’. 
 
 
