NEW DELHI: India has lashed out at   saying it is the “face of international terrorism” and that its agency   is carrying out atrocities in   as well as  .
 
  Tearing into Pakistan for its recent statement on Kashmir at the   meeting, India on Monday said, “Pakistan’s unsolicited and unwarranted comments pertaining to the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir are factually incorrect and absolutely misleading. We outrightly reject them.”
  
  Exercising India’s ‘right of reply’ to Pakistan’s statement, Vishnu Reddy, a diplomat from India’s Permanent Mission of India in Geneva, spelt out the biggest challenge faced by the region. “The foremost challenge to the stability of the region is the scourge of terrorism. Pakistan’s malicious attempt to hide its interference behind the facade of domestic discontent carries no credibility with the world,” he said.
  
  Reddy hit back at Pakistan by highlighting the issues of Pakistan-backed terrorism in Kashmir and human rights violations in Balochistan, something that India has been increasingly raising at international platforms since Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to it in his Independence Day address last year.
  
  “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir is run by a ‘deep state’ and has become an epicentre of terrorism. Its (Pakistan’s) human rights record in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Baluchistan is deplorable,” Reddy said.
  
  The issue of Balochistan has figured prominently at the current UNHRC session, with the exiled Baloch political parties highlighting atrocities of Pakistan Army including extra-judicial killings particularly during the past three months.
  
  Reddy went on to apprise the UNHRC of the evidence on cross-border terrorism that India has shared with Pakistan in order to get the latter to dismantle terror infrastructure.
  
  “Pakistan has been the face of international terrorism. Even the foreign minister of Pakistan has admitted that internationally banned outfits, including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), are operating from within Pakistan.
  
  In the wake of growing international concern, Pakistan must shut down its terror manufacturing units and bring the perpetrators of terrorism to justice,” Reddy said.
  
  India has been rebutting Pakistan’s statements on Kashmir not only in Geneva but also in New York and every other fora where Pakistan has sought to “mislead” the international community. External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj is also expected to raise the issue at the UN General Assembly on September 23. 
