VISAKHAPATNAM: Various transport departments are gearing up to ensure hassle-free services to passengers during the Sankranti festival.

 APSRTC, Indian Railways and private tours and travels are competing with one another to attract passengers from Hyderabad, Bangalore, Chennai and Vijayawada. A number of people travel from these cities to the three north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam every year during Sankranti to visit families.
 
 APSRTC regional manager for Visakhapatnam district G Sudesh Kumar said they will be operating 167 special buses from Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangalore, Vijayawada, Rajahmundry and Kakinada to Visakhapatnam city from January 12 onwards. Similarly, after Sankranti, they would operate nearly 180 buses from the city to various cities to help the passengers return to their destinations.
 
 “We are expecting nearly 18,000 passengers to avail our special services during Sankranti this year. This time, we are introducing a non-stop Vijayawada-Vizag bus services and operate the city’s metro buses only on shorter routes like Kakinada and Rajahmundry from Vizag,” Sudesh Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, P Ch Ramu Naidu, divisional commercial manager for Waltair division of  , said to clear the extra rush of passengers, the railways has decided to run special trains between Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam.
 
 Train 07148 Hyderabad–Visakhapatnam Special will leave Hyderabad on January 15 at 8.15 pm and reach Visakhapatnam the next day (Monday) at 10.25 am. In the return direction, 07147 Visakhapatnam - Hyderabad Special train will leave Visakhapatnam on January 16 at 6.55 pm and reach Hyderabad the next day (Tuesday) at 8.45 am.
 
 Meanwhile, passengers charged that several private transport operators are collecting hefty fares keeping in view the high demand for bus service for Sankranti. “Some operators are collecting double fares from the people, claiming that all seats are reserved and there is no vacancy,” said a passenger at Dwaraka Nagar here.
 
 Speaking to TOI,   ( ) deputy transport commissioner S Venkateswara Rao said they would constitute teams to check the fitness of motor vehicles including private buses. He said any transport vehicle management that collects additional fare against the   is liable fpr punishment as per rules. 
 
 
