JAMSHEDPUR/KOLKATA: CPI (Maoist)'s   and state member  , 45, and his wife Anita Pal alias Jharna Giri, 32, surrendered before the director general of   and Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar at Bhawani Bhawan in Kolkata on Wednesday.

 Ranjit also handed over his self-loading rifle (SLR) to Purakayastha. Wanted Maoist Ranjit Pal alias Rahul surrendered before the West Bengal police in Kolkata on Wednesday.
 
 Ranjit alone faces over 50 cases related to terror, murder and extortion in Bengal and Jharkhand. His wife Anita, who joined the   in 2007 too has 12 cases pending against her.
 
 Ranjit was responsible for the murder of former MP Sunil Mahato at Bakulia in East Singhum. He surrendered before the Bengal police under pressure, after Supai Tudu, a close aide got killed in a police encounter on January 2 at Ghorabandha this year. "We will approach the court for Rahul's remand within three or four days," said a senior district police officer.
 
 According to the district police, Ranjit told Bengal police that he was fearing for his life, hence the decision. The most wanted Maoist leader and his wife said their reasons for picking up arms for the common man have been resolved by the present state government.
 
 "The 17 years of practical experience has shown me that violence does not pay. I am pleading mercy from all relatives of those whom I have harmed. This state government is solving the problems of the common man. I want to forget the past and look in to the future," said Ranjit. He added: "I have understood that it is not possible to look after wife, children and old parents as a rebel. I urge all youths who have taken the Maoist path to return to mainstream."
 
 "Following the killing of his trusted aide Tudu, Ranjit realized that it would be wise to surrender, otherwise he also would not be spared," said the police officer who led the firing which killed Tudu. A native of Barikul in Bankura district, Ranjit had joined the Maoist ranks way back in 2000 and was immediately arrested as a teenager for committing a crime at Ranibandh a year later. He rose in party ranks after the murder of MP Sunil Mahato.
 
