NOIDA: For the past 15 days, residents and officegoers have repeatedly complained about damaged pipes in three different sectors — 50, 57 and 92 —but their complaints fell on the deaf ears of  .

 The roads now remind many of monsoon days—knee-deep water overflowing and inundating the m. The   near Block C in Sector 57 is lying damaged for the past two weeks. Sector 57 has a large number of industries and those working in the area have been wading through water for the past several days.
 
 “We have registered online complaints on the Noida Citizens’ Charter nearly a week ago, but there has been no response from the Authority so far,” said Sanjeev Kumar, who works in the area. Meanwhile, water continues to get wasted and submerge the roads.
 
 According to Kumar, old and rusting drains are not capable of taking the load of damaged pipes and need repair and maintenance. “On rainy days the situation turns worse with up to three feet of water on the road,” he said, adding that some repair work was attempted last Sunday by junior staff of the Authority. However, that did not yield the desired results.
 
 “There were some junior staff members who tried to look into the problem last Sunday, but they left the place after inspection and did not do anything to fix the pipe which got damaged during the road repair work carried out in the area recently,” said Kumar, who works in a company near Khora Colony.
 
 Elsewhere, the water pipeline in front of B-20 in Sector 92 is in a damaged state for the past five days. “There’s heavy water flow here for the last five days and nobody had come here to repair it,” said S K Jain, resident of the area.
 
 According to Jain, a complaint was made to the sector’s water tank supervisor. “He assured that the contractor would be coming to repair the damage, but no one has come in yet,” Jain said. A water pipe immediately before the Sector 50 Metro station has been in need of repair for the past eight-nine days. 
 
 It has been so for the third time in the last six months. “This has damaged the road completely, but no one has come here to repair it yet,” said Amit Gupta, a daily commuter on the road.
 
 When contacted, Noida Authority deputy CEO   said early action would be taken to repair the damaged pipelines. “We will ensure that the pipe is repaired at the earliest,” Srivastava said.
 
 
