NAVI MUMBAI: March 20 is celebrated as World Sparrow Day and various initiatives have been taken by people across the globe to increase their count and conserve them.

 This World Sparrow Day, bird watchers from different parts of the world will be spotting various types of   seen in their localities and documenting them in order to check their numbers.
 
 This is reportedly the first-of-its-kind sparrow count that will be conducted across the world. The Great Sparrow Count is a worldwide initiative by the Nature Forever Society (NFS) aimed at counting sparrows across the world. The initiative is being conducted for three days from March 18 to 20.
 
 The aim is to document the population and distribution of 24 different   of sparrows found across the world. While everyone has heard about House Sparrows, few know that in India we have five different species of Sparrows.
 
 While speaking to the media, bird expert Mohammed Dilawar from Nature Forever Society said, “The aim is to bring all birdwatchers and people who are concerned about the decline of sparrows to count sparrows which in turn will help in conserving them.”
 
 World Sparrow Day is a celebration of our 10,000-year-old association with sparrows. Counting sparrows raises a variety of important questions, including its distribution, how they are affected by changes in habitat and weather and whether populations and distributions might be changing year to year.
 
 Rama Menon, NFS Coordinator for Hyderabad, said, “I grew up with sparrows around me and I don’t want the future generations to see sparrows only in books. The sparrow is the most lovable bird from my childhood. Come let’s conserve them by providing them with nest boxes and feeders.”
 
 The Great Sparrow Count is being run with the assistance of Bird Count India, an umbrella group of organizations working towards bird monitoring and conservation. The basic activity is to   sparrows and all bird species seen at a particular location over a period of 15 minutes or more, at any time during the three days and upload the list to the bird recording platform i.e. eBird www.ebird.org/india. This can be repeated as often as is possible.
 
 
