PATNA: Four policemen, including Digha police station SHO Golden Kumar, were injured when   smugglers attacked them at   under Digha police station area on late Saturday night.

 Sources said the policemen were raiding illegal hutments to stop   in the area when the criminals attacked them. The SHO received eight stitches on his forehead.
 
 According to sources, Kumar with his small team raided the area. But taking advantage of the darkness, the residents attacked the raiding party. Since they have their hutments along the railway tracks, they used the stones on the track to attack the police party. 
 
 “The SHO and three constables received injury,” said City SP (Central) Chandan Kumar Kushwaha, who led the raid on Sunday and arrested 13 alleged liquor smugglers. 
 
 The raiding team led by the SP also had DSP (law and order) Shibli Nomani and SHOs of four police stations, including Digha, Pataliputra, Buddha Colony and Rajeev Nagar. Despite injury,   participated in the Sunday raid. 
 
 This was not the first case of attack on police since prohibition was imposed in the state on April 5 last year. 
 
 On May 9, Shiekhpura’s Kasar police station SHO Ravindra Prasad Mahto and two constables were attacked by villagers when they had gone to Chaandi village to raid liquor smugglers.
 
 Gopalganj’s Kuchaikot SHO Mahendra Kumar along with Mohammadpur SHO Munna Kumar were injured by a group of 30 villagers when they went to Thenpur village in Paru ( ) to arrest liquor smuggler Ajay Rai on January 10.
 
 On November 27 last year, Patna police had to exchange fire with liquor smugglers at Nanauri village under Dhanarua police station area on the outskirts of the state capital when police went to the field after receiving intelligence about liquor smuggling.
 
 At least 100 rounds of fire were exchanged between the police and the smugglers. Police later seized one regular rifle, a double-barrel gun and several rounds of live and empty cartridges. Sanjay Yadav and Mantri Yadav, both from Nizamat village in Dhanarua, were arrested. 
 
 
