Mumbai: It’s that time when performance of employees comes up for evaluation. In the past, when business cycles were fairly stable, meeting goals against expectations was a good enough measure for managers to assess an employee’s performance. As complexity set in and businesses got intercepted with disruptions of a new kind, organisations are changing the manner in which employee performance is measured. Today, not only are organisations looking at what goals employees have achieved, but also ‘how’ these goals were achieved.

 Vikram Bector, chief human resources officer,   Group, told TOI, “At the end of the year, we don’t just measure the output, we also want to know how you achieved your goals. It’s alphanumeric in many ways. One part measures task output and the other how you did it. We have a consensus-driven process where an employee not only discusses what he or she has achieved in terms of financial outcomes, but also how he or she did it. The ‘what’ part of outcome would be pretty clear from the financial sheet that would tell what goals were achieved. The how part, however, is a matter of discussion and it involves a 360-degree approach.”
 
 In the past, it would be safely assumed that achievers who meet or exceeded their goals are on their way to future success. Today, companies are closely measuring employee behaviour as well. “An individual may have met all his or her targets, but destroyed all relations with the team. Such an individual would not be able to claim a top rating. If an employee is unidimensional in his/her approach, and only deals with the line manager without collaborating with others in terms of sharing recognition and teamwork, it is not an acceptable behaviour. As a matter of fact we have six Piramal success factors which serve as guide posts, as acceptable leadership behaviours,” said Bector.
 
 Some companies have gone further and ask ‘why’ the means were adopted to meet the said goals. Shalini Pillay, partner and head (people, performance and culture),  , said, “We urge our employees to not only assess the ‘what’ and the ‘how’ but most importantly the ‘why’. We do believe that if the individual purpose of an employee is aligned to the higher purpose of the firm, it can only bring out the absolute best in an individual. This is something we reiterate from goal-setting to the continuous dialogues and feedback we encourage through the year.”
 
 At Motilal Oswal Financial Services (MOFSL), too, the focus is not just on achievements of the present appraisal cycle but also on the future potential of an employee and whether he has the competencies to achieve the same. Sudhir Dhar, head (HR & administration),  , said, “We have done significant research within the company and have reached the conclusion that achieving goals without scoring high on these competencies doesn’t really amount to much, as some of these competencies are entwined with future success.”
 
 MOFSL has specific competencies like ‘knowledge-driven’ that ascertain how an individual has worked to improve upon his/her knowledge and command over his domain to transcend into becoming a subject matter expert.
 
 Dhar said in the future, MOFSL intends to transcend from performance and potential to learnability. “The future lies with highly agile individuals who have the power to learn and unlearn, we might just be leaving the times of the one-dimensional employee. It just isn’t about achieving the goals any more — it’s about ensuring that the journey is eventful, enriching and enlightening,” he said.
 
 
