HYDERABAD: Investigations into the drugs racket witnessed unexpected drama on Friday with the   CMO issuing a press release that said drug users should be treated as victims and not criminals and later retracting it. By night, a second press release was issued that made no mention of treating drug users as victims.

 The dramatic developments centered around a review meeting on the drugs case with excise and police officials chaired by chief minister   at   in the evening.According to sources, the CMO was advised to withdraw the earlier press release as wanting to treat drug users as victims and not criminals can have legal ramifications.
 
 In the toned down version, KCR directed police and excise officials to strike at the root of the drug network and arrest the big fish. He also announced a cash award of `1 lakh to those giving clues on sale of drugs.
 
 “Using drugs is not a crime, but sale, supply and trading are liable for criminal prosecution. But to catch drug traders, police have to question the people who have used or are using drugs. Through them, police are trying to smash the network,“ said KCR.
 
 Refuting allegations that the government was trying to target Tollywood, he warned those using drugs to kick the habit immediately and voluntarily provide infor mation. KCR also announced that those who provide clues on hookah centres, playing cards clubs and distribution of ganja will be given a cash award of `1 lakh and their names kept confidential.
 
 Enforcement officials explained to the CM that they have identified 12 film personalities along with 15 others who have been using drugs. “Till now, the department has arrested 22 people, including two foreigners. We have questioned 27 people, of which 12 are from the film industry ,“ said officials. They clarified to the CM that they are trying to get information from Tollywood personalities about drug suppliers operating from foreign soil. “We are able to comprehend that drugs are being supplied from Spain, Thailand, Portugal, the Netherlands and Colombia,“ said the officials.
 
 Responding to this, the CM directed them to eradicate the menace and make Hyderabad free from drug abuse. According to him, though there has been much hullabaloo over drug abuse, Hyderabad was never on the drugs radar.“In drugs cases, as per national crime data of 2015-16, Punjab leads with 10,220 cases followed by Uttar Pradesh with 6,775 cases. Maharashtra reported 1,903 cases, Tamil Nadu 1,402 cases and Rajasthan with 115 cases. Telangana is not in the list of drug-affected states,“ said the chief minister.
 
 Saying that a progressive state like Telangana should not get trapped in the drugs net, the chief minister urged addicts to approach counsellors.
 
