If you have been out partying in the malls and clubs of Noida recently, you would know what a struggle it is to book a cab from here late at night. Once the clock strikes 11pm, and the option of travelling in the   no longer exists, many partygoers find that it is akin to being stranded in Noida. The reason? Most cabbies in the area do not wish to take rides to south or west Delhi, let alone Gurgaon, forcing many Delhiites to crash at friends’ places in Noida itself or cut short their late night parties.

 
 
 Kanika Gandhi, a   resident, says, “I work in Sector 15 in Noida. Last week, I had dinner with a friend after work and the restaurant was close to my office. Around 10pm, we decided to leave but while my friend got a cab for Mayur Vihar in barely five minutes, over a dozen cabbies cancelled on me one after the other because none of them wanted to go to Vasant Kunj. My mistake was that I didn’t take the Metro when I had the opportunity and thought I’d try and check cab options for some more time. But in the process, it was 11 at night, and I still didn’t get a cab and couldn’t even take the Metro.”
 Kanika from Vasant Kunj adds, “Noida becomes a prison after 11pm, you simply can’t get out! After a lot of struggle, I finally managed to get a cab at around 12.” 
 Atul Singh, a west Delhi resident, says, “Drivers make excuses ki CNG bharvani hai ya traffic hai. They don’t outright refuse to come but delay reaching, so that we are forced to cancel the ride ourselves.”
 
 
 
 Cab companies offer drivers incentives if they finish a minimum number of rides per day. The number ranges from 11 to 15, depending on the operator. “I live in Khora, near Sector 62. I am usually left with one or two rides to finish my quota by 11pm and if I am in Noida at that time, I don’t want to take a ride towards south Delhi or west Delhi. Wahan se 40km wapas aana padega sirf ghar pe gaadi khadi karne ke liye,” says a driver with an app-based operator.
 A cab driver, from New Kondli, says, “Close to midnight, you don’t get passengers to Noida from Delhi. Toh agar 11 baje Noida se ride lete bhi hain toh wapas khaali aana padta hai. It’s a waste of our time. This is why cab drivers who live in this area either deny duty to customers going to Delhi or make excuses that traffic hai aur time pe nahi aa payenge.”
 
 
 
 Partygoers in Noida say they have started feeling like Cinderella now, because the moment the clock strikes 11, they make it a point to make a run for the Metro station. Kartika Singh, a Malviya Nagar resident, says, “My entire friend circle is based in Noida, so this is where we party. But for me, the party always ends before 11pm as I have to board the Metro and head back home. Cabs hi nahi milti hain and you can’t depend on someone to pick you or drop you every time. So all my friends party till midnight or later while I go home early.”
 Varsha, a   student who lives in Jangpura, tells us, “It feels like I’m back in school. My parents know about the cab issue and they start calling me at 10.30pm to tell me ki beta ghar aa jao, phir cab nahi milegi. I have begun to stop going to parties in Noida altogether now.”
 
 
 
 But cutting short the party was not an option for New Year’s Eve, when the party only began at 11pm. Many partygoers said that they didn’t head back to Delhi altogether and crashed at friends’ places in Noida day before yesterday. Ritesh Arora, a Janakpuri resident, who celebrated New Year’s Eve at a club in Sector 18, says, “I was stranded in Noida Sector 18 earlier in November around midnight as there were no cabs. So for New Year’s Eve, I had called an old college friend and had asked him if I could stay over at his place after my party. He was ok with the idea and that’s what I did.”
  
 
