LUCKNOW: Changing his political script yet again,   patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav said on Monday that   would be the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The move is being seen as another change in stance by the veteran politician, who had earlier stated, on numerous occasions, that the next CM would be chosen by the elected MLAs after this year’s assembly polls.

 But, Mulayam’s statement failed to address issues that had pushed the party towards a split. Akhilesh had demanded a free hand in the selection of candidates, which remained unaddressed. Also Mulayam’s statement didn’t throw light on who is SP’s national president. 
 
 The move is being seen as the wily Yadav chief’s attempt to win over Akhilesh and isolate Ram Gopal Yadav, whom he has described as the “only person responsible for misleading his son”. Earlier in the day, Mulayam had written to   chairman informing him about Ram Gopal’s expulsion from SP.
 
 “Agla mukhya mantri Akhilesh Yadav hi hoga (Akhilesh will be the next CM),” Mulayam told a news agency. Mulayam, who also went to the   to stake claim to his party’s  , said later in Lucknow that there was no question of any split in the party. He also said he would go out to campaign soon. Mulayam and Akhilesh are likely to meet at 10 am on Tuesday, sources said.
 
 The statement is being seen as Mulayam’s attempt to reassure Akhilesh’s supporters, who have been apprehensive of a plot to dislodge him by not projecting him as the future face of the party. Observers said there was a need to take Mulayam’s statement with caution in light of his recent flip-flops. Besides, if Akhilesh was wary of a possible resentment among Yadavs over the perceived humiliation of of his father, Mulayam’s latest move seems to complicate matters for him.
 
 On Sunday, talking to party workers at his Ashoka Road residence in New Delhi, Mulayam had said that Akhilesh was his son and “let him do what he wanted to”. A little later he held a press conference to declare that he was the national president of the party and that the special convention held in Lucknow, where Akhilesh was anointed as the party chief, was unconstitutional.
 
