   may not have much of a history with football and have never qualified for the World Cup finals. They’ve not won any major competition too. But, at the   here in India, they will still make heads turn.
 
  It’s an African team, after all, and at age-group competitions, African teams can match the best in business. They have already proved themselves during the qualifiers, which included a goalless stalemate against former champions Ghana and a win over another qualifier, Niger. It makes them frighteningly difficult opponents and you wouldn’t bet against them to qualify from a group that also has European powerhouse Germany, Asian giants Iran and Costa Rica.
  
  “There’s talent in Guinea and we also have training academies now. The president of the national FA is in the process of setting up a training centre that will open in six months’ time. Ebola caused us a lot of problems but we managed to rise to the challenge. The success we’ve had is down to the talent of the Guinean players, and it’s not for nothing that we’re known as ‘the Brazil of Africa’,” coach Souleymane Camara’s told Fifa.com in a recent interview.
  
  Guinea open their Group C campaign against Iran on October 7 at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. They next face Costa Rica and then the mighty Germans in what is expected to be a deciding clash.
  
  It wasn’t easy for Guinea in the qualifiers after they were forced to play most of their games away from home as the Ebola virus struck the region hard between 2014 and 2016, claiming the lives of over 2,000 people. They overcome those challenges and are now ready for the battle ahead.
  
  Guinea will know what to expect at the World Cup. Having made five appearances at the Under-17 level from the 16 editions, they are one of the first three African sides -- along with Nigeria and Congo -- to take part in the competition at China in 1985.
  
  “It’s a difficult group,” said the coach, referring to the likes of Germany, Iran and Costa Rica.
  
  “The Iranians played Japan three times and came away with a win and two draws. I’m expecting them to be very strong. I’ve spoken with the coach of Costa Rica, who I think will be one of the best teams at the U-17 World Cup, along with Brazil. And as for Germany, they don’t need any introduction,” he said.
  
  Camara, a former player himself, has an excellent reputation in his country and has put together a fine U-17 national team which is hoping to make its mark on the global scene following its exploits in the continental finals.
  
  Guinea will arrive in Goa only on October 3 but have not lagged behind with their preparations. They had a month long training camp in Italy followed by another 10-day camp in Abu Dhabi.
  
  “I hope we can do better than a couple of years ago. We need to work hard if we’re going to do that because it’s a big step-up in class from the Africa Cup of Nations to the World Cup. Personally, I see myself as an ambitious coach who’s always looking to get good results,” said Camara.
  
  The   (Junior National Elephants) suffered a first-round exit two years ago in Chile, where they drew 1-1 with England and lost 3-1 and 1-0 to Brazil and Korea Republic, respectively. They’ve e been on a roll since then and might have a surprise up their sleeve.
  
  GUINEA’S GROUP MATCHES
  
  October 7
  Guinea vs Iran
  
  October 10
  Guinea vs Costa Rica
  
  October 13
  Guinea vs Germany
