Summer holidays are here. It is that time of the year when your little ones can indulge their interests, be it in the arts, nature, cooking or even space. There are a number of summer camps and   spread across the city that cater to a range of hobbies. While dancing, singing and sports are commonplace, we have picked some unique camps that are sure to appeal to your child. Take a look…

 
 
 Space may be the final frontier, but you don’t have to go far to learn everything about it. If your child is the type that has been fascinated with the stars and beyond, then a space camp might be the right place to whet their curiosity. The Summer Space Camp has interactive sessions with scientist, astronomy, model rocketry and a hands-on workshop. And E.T. — Space & Beyond explores the universe. This astronomy workshop exposes children to some questions about space that still remain a mystery. What’s more, they can come up with their own solutions. Kids will also learn about latest advancements, tools and everything exciting about stars.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 All year round, parents and kids are juggling busy schedules. So, this summer, take some time out and bond with your little one. The Mother and Child/Father and   is a two-day camp that gives parents a chance to bond with their children in the midst of nature, where they can witness wilderness and even partake in activities such as angling and photography. Those who don’t want to leave the city can bond with their child at the Parent Child Art Activity, in which you can indulge in some creative, fun time with your child. At the workshop, you can create a personalized mixed-media artwork that you can take back home and hang on your wall.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Have a budding masterchef at home? And are you also worried about the little one feasting on unhealthy food? The   creates awareness about healthy eating. Kids will get to make healthy treats such as homemade wheat pizza, crispy crackers with vegan mayonnaise and fruit smoothies. At Junior Baking, kids get to learn the art of baking cookies using healthy ingredients like whole wheat, oats and dry fruits, with which they will make granola bars, whole wheat cookies and multigrain olive oil crackers. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 To keep kids engaged, it is important that they make things with their own hands. And this is what they can do at Eternity Creative Studio’s   2017, at which actor-art director   will teach kids the art of set designing. Learn how to make glove puppets, string puppets, carnival puppets and terracotta puppet faces at the Dhaatu Puppet Santhe 2017, where kids will also be taught how to play them. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The pen is the mightier than the sword. And if your little one is literary-inclined, equip them with the power to put pen to paper. The Scribble Pad: Pen a Story helps kids discover imagination and write a story with characters and dialogues, after which they get to take the story home. Handwriting is an important tool, and this is what the   helps with.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Story Writing Workshop For Kids encourages children to write stories about their home — Bengaluru. After learning about the city, kids get to enact a scene or two of the Bengaluru of yesteryears, learn what makes a story, weave a story and finally, present it. Want your ward to learn Kannada?   Kaliyona Ba makes the language simpler with spoken and written Kannada, which is made fun with songs, shlokas, stories, riddles and more.
 
 
  
 
 
 Have an engineer in the making at home? Then here’s a chance for them to get a head start. The   is a hands-on programme in which kids learn to create customizable, programmable robots through a robotics kit that contains software and hardware. They design their own interactive machines and programme it using drag-and-drop software. Is your child a puzzle freak? With the Make your own 3D Puzzle, your little one will learn how to identify elements of a three-dimensional puzzle and build a model.
 
