NEW DELHI: Small and marginal farmers in Uttar Pradesh will soon get loan waiver as promised by BJP in its state election manifesto, but farmers in other states, including those ruled by BJP, may not be that lucky.

 Though UP's move could see similar demands from other states, the Centre does not appear keen on making any commitment at this juncture.However, it is learnt that other states will be free to take a decision on giving farmers interest-free short-term loans under special circumstances.
 
 Under interest subvention scheme, farmers get shortterm crop loans of up to Rs 3 lakh for one year at an interest rate of 7%. An incentive of 3% per annum is, however, provided by the Centre to farmers for prompt repayment of loans within due date.
 
 So, these farmers in effect avail short term crop loans at an interest rate of 4% per annum. “If any state desires, it can extend the incentive of 4% to farmers for prompt repayment -making it possible to provide them interest free loan“, said an official. Farm loan waiver of small and marginal farmers (landholdings of up to two hectares) will cost Uttar Pradesh government nearly Rs 36,000 crore if it takes a call to waive loans taken from all cooperative as well as scheduled commercial banks.
 
 The total loan amount for farmers in Uttar Pradesh is of the order of Rs 8,400 crore from cooperative banks and primary agriculture cooperative societies, and Rs 27,419 crore from commercial banks.
 
 “It won't be a financially prudent move to take a similar call for all states, taking into account the huge crop loan amount in the country“, said an official in agriculture min istry, adding UP's decision will open a  's box.
 
 He said, “Maharashtra has, however, already resisted similar demand of loan waiver. The state, in fact, prefers to allocate money in its budget for creating agriculture infrastructure, including irrigation facilities.This kind of approach should be emulated by other states“.
 
 A mega loan waiver scheme in the country was implemented in 2008 when the then   government had initially announced a waiver of Rs 60,000crore loan for small and marginal farmers in the Budget. It was later extended to large farmers as well and the amount increased to Rs 71,600 crore.
 
 
 
 
 Has putting the home portfolio in order delayed ministry allocation in UP? There was speculation that home was subject to some intense discussion over whether it would be held by CM   or deputy CM  . Both possibilities were doing the rounds. Past convention points to the CM holding the portfolio, but there was some talk of Maurya being given the job.Ministers are likely to be allotted portfolios by Tuesday.
 
 What gave credence to the speculation was a whisper campaign by Yogi's supporters and Maurya's in the BJP office. A Maurya supporter told TOI that this was the discussion for which the CM and his deputies, Maurya and  , remained huddled throughout the day. A senior party official, requesting anonymity, said the home portfolio would most likely remain with the CM as it calls for being led with iron hands. 
 
 -- 
 
 
 
