MADURAI: Nature enthusiasts on an eco trip to Vellimalai – 15 kms away from the city – were in for a shock on Sunday as the   (Neolamarckia cadamba) recorded in the area and estimated to be over 50 years old was found chopped and smuggled out. 

 Once found in plenty, Madurai was once known as Kadamba Vanam (Kadamba grove) and it is the the sacred tree of Meenakshi temple. But this indigenous species, known as bur-flower tree, has disappeared over the period from the region and is now limited to Alagarkoil hills. Two trees are left in the area like the one inside the   and the other at Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women.
 
 The   in Vellimalai area was found when Nanal Nanbargal, an environment organization in the city, undertook a survey to record flora and fauna of the district during 2014, said S Baburaj, retired Associate Professor of Botany. “Once plenty in Madurai, it is rare to spot the tree now and it was sad to see that miscreants had left just the stump”, he said. According to him, the tree was well grown and could have been 50 years old. 
 
 On Sunday, members attending Eco-Media & WaSH (Water, Sanitation & Hygiene) Science Communication programme organised by Department of Communication, Madurai Kamaraj University, went on a field visit to Vellimalai and found the tree missing. “We had taken the participants of the programme to show them the Kadamba Maram Madurai is famous for. But we found to our shock that the tree had been chopped off”, said Associate Professor of the Department, S Nagarathinam. 
 
 A sacred grove near Idayapatti, Vellimalai is not a protected forest area though it is a shrub jungle in nature with its own eco-system. For instance, the slender loris, a small nocturnal primate, is found in good number in this area. Once spread on 460 acres, it has shrunk to 110 acres at present after government allotted the land for setting up   (Indo-Tibetan Border Police) and CRPF ( ) camps in the area. 
 
 Across India, there are 50,000 such sacred groves out of which 448 are in Tamil Nadu, says M Tamildasan of Nanal Nanbargal. “These sacred groves have been taken care of by the villagers whose family members who take turns to patrol the area. After military establishments came up in the area, the villagers abandoned the old practice. Since the area is government land and not protected by forest department, there is little protection to this grove at present”, he stated.
 
 The sacred tree
 
 Kadamba maram or bur-flower tree is an evergreen tropical tree native of South and South East Asia
 
 A fully matured tree can reach up to 148 feet and it has handsome foliage
 
 The fruit and inflorescences are edible and leaves make good fodder for cattle
 
 Timber is a softwood ideal for plywood, pulp for paper, boxes and furniture components
 
 In Hindu mythology, the tree is sacred as it is attached to Lord Krishna in North India while it is associated to Goddess Parvati in South
 
 
