NEW DELHI:   in the   may come to an end with its   all set to be demarcated and notified in the capital. Once notified, the forest department will be able to take action against the encroachers and also bring clarity to cases stuck in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), officials said.

 Officials from the department of forest and wildlife will meet their counterparts from Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and municipal corporations this week to discuss an action plan to demarcate the northern and central ridge, which fall under multiple land-owning agencies.
 
 According to a senior forest official, ridge areas will be notified as soon as the   is completed. “We want to start notifying the Ridge as reserve forests as soon as a portion or areas are demarcated by the agencies involved,” said a forest official.
 
 “This will ensure that no encroachment takes place after that and we can also take action since it will be a protected forest with defined boundaries. Land under the forest department will be notified immediately,” he added.
 
 Earlier this week, environment minister   also held a meeting with the forest and revenue departments and the  , asking officials to expedite the demarcation process and complete it by March-end.
 
 Revenue officials have also been asked to submit a detailed report of the areas demarcated so far, which includes Asola.
 
 “A deadline of March 2017 has been set and a detailed report of the areas already demarcated need to be submitted within 15 days. We have also asked for a detailed report of the areas which have been marked by the revenue department,” said a senior forest official.
 
 The notification of the ridge area will also provide relief in several cases before the National Green Tribunal that are stuck due to lack of clarity of boundaries, including encroachment in Neb Sarai and even the Rangpuri ridge area in the southern ridge.
 
 NGT had directed the revenue department to carry out the ridge demarcation process to tally the maps present with the forest department.
 
 In February 2016, the department of forest and wildlife had submitted a programme evaluation and review technique (PERT) chart to HC, expressing concerns that boundaries could only be calculated after demarcation by the revenue department. They also asked the flood control department to construct boundaries after the demarcation process was carried out. 
 
