NAGPUR: A lawyer has raised an objection over an advertisement displaying a girl child holding blood stained clothes of her mother. Activists too have found the advertisement objectionable.

 However, it has brought to the fore that the   ( ) does not screen and monitor content on the hoardings.
 
 A private company engaged in life insurance business has displayed its advertisements on four hoardings in some parts of the city. One of the advertisements on hoarding situated near VCA Stadium, Civil Lines, shows the girl child crying and holding a white shirt full of blood. The advertisement is about the importance of wearing seat belt while riding four-wheelers.
 
 Lawyer   has lodged a complaint with the state government and The   a couple of days ago. “I, along with my wife, was on way to pick up my child from school at Sadar. We were stunned after seeing the picture on the hoarding. As the hoardings are situated on some major roads, all the children passing by might have seen it. I am a major by age and still felt terrified,” he said.
 
 “I stopped for sometime after passing through the advertisement as I could not drive. One of the hoardings is situated near a kindergarten school at Sadar. We always try to keep away our children and females from such sights as they get afraid and disturbed. The authorities concerned should immediately remove the advertisement and monitor the contents as hoardings attract people moving or driving on the roads, especially children and women,” he said.
 
 Jan activist Aakrosh Ravi Kaskhedikar, who runs drives for traffic regulation, too felt that the advertisement is disturbing. “The image in the advertisement is leaving a frightening picture. It is totally wrong to advertise business by leaving fear in the people. I too run an advertisement agency and felt that it was disturbing. There are many methods to make people aware and advertise our business but such methods aee objectionable,” he said.
 
 Political analyst Anjali Gaidhane said, “The message behind the advertisement is good. But the way the message is displayed is not proper. We Indians are sensitive and panic if we come across such pictures,” she said.
 
 Traffic activist Vinay Kunte said the advertisement was proper and need of the hour. “People neglect wearing seat belts despite facing fines. People should know what happens if they meet with mishaps,” he said.
 
 The incident has revealed that the NMC gives permission to erect hoardings and also leases out its hoardings but do not screen or monitor the contents in the advertisement. “The NMC’s outdoor advertising policy makes mandatory for the NMC and also private company to remove the advertisement if anyone has objection. We will look into the advertisement,” an official said.
 
 
