Mumbai:   is said to consider raising as much as $1.8 billion (Rs 12,000 crore) through a   ( ) of shares with an eye on acquisitions, people familiar with the matter said. 

 Kotak is testing waters with global investors for a large share placement even as the bank’s board is meeting on Thursday to discuss various avenues of raising equity capital. A Kotak spokesperson said the board is set to meet “on March 30, 2017 to decide on all details, including mode, quantum, etc.”
 
 The bank’s fund-raising plan is also giving rise to market speculation as to how Uday Kotak, the bank’s main promoter, would use the funds. According to brokerages, at the top of the list could be potential acquisition of government’s 12.2% stake in  , held through the   ( ). This stake is currently worth nearly Rs 14,500 crore. Kotak is scheduled to meet the media on Wednesday, after market hours but the bank is yet to disclose the agenda for the meet.
 
 On February 9, TOI had reported about a possible merger which Axis Bank had denied, while Kotak Bank had declined to comment. The next day Uday Kotak had said there were several options on the table for the bank to grow. Recently, in another forum, Kotak said that probably in India the time has come where it should witness to some hostile takeover bids. He had also said that the government could send strong signals to encourage private sector to ‘grow fearlessly’.
 
 A report by a foreign brokerage house on Tuesday pointed out that in case the government divests its Axis Bank stake, it would want cash and not accept Kotak Bank shares through a swap-deal. The brokerage house also speculated that Kotak Bank may look at buying Mahindra & Mahindra’s 52% stake in M&M Financial Services, currently worth about Rs 9,700 crore. Kotak and M&M Finance has recently denied any such plan.
 
 The broking house also said that Kotak Bank may also be interested to buy Bharat Financial Inclusion (formerly  ). Currently   bank is leading the race to buy Bharat Financial. Kotak Bank said that it does not comment “on rumours and speculation”.
 
 In Tuesday’s relatively strong market, Kotak Bank closed 1.3% lower at Rs 860, Axis Bank closed 3.2% up at Rs 503, M&M Finance closed 2.8% higher at Rs 329, while Bharat Financial closed 2.6% lower at Rs 835.
 
 
