NEW DELHI/ DEHRADUN/ CHANDIGARH/ IMPHAL : In just over a fortnight since the Assembly election results were announced, the BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur and the Congress regime in Punjab have taken a host of decisions that have created a buzz mainly due to the controversial nature of these announcements while people and media wait for the weightier issues to be dealt with by these dispensations.
 
  
 
  
  UP Chief Minister   has hit the headlines most often recently since he has assumed the top post in the most populous and politically crucial state of the country. In his parting Lok Sabha speech, he had declared, “UP mein bahut kuch band hone wala hai (a lot of things are going to be stopped in UP).” He lost no time in banning illegal slaughter houses and forming anti-Romeo squads, two promises made in the BJP manifesto- called LokKalyan Sankalp Patra.
  
  Other decisions include doubling the grant for Mansarovar pilgrims to Rs 1 lakh, banning chewing of tobacco and use of polythene in government premises, installation of biometric system of attendance for government officials, asking all ministers and senior officials to give details of their assets, ordering that officials do not come to office in T-shirts. Though Yogi has taken around 50 decisions since he took office, he is yet to convene a Cabinet meeting.
  
  Perhaps, this is due to lack of clarity on the farm loan waiver that was a key poll promise of PM Narendra Modi. The Centre has now asked the state to arrange the funds (around Rs 27,000 crore by conservative estimates). The state is waiting for Yogi’s bigger decisions- removing potholes from major roads by June 15; starting work on metro projects announced for Gorakhpur, Allahabad, Agra, Meerut and Jhansi; improving power situation; health and most importantly law and order.
  
  
 
  In Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Rawat’s announcement that the Kandi road- which runs through Corbett National Parkwould be opened stirred a controversy as environmentalists and green activists are opposed to it. The road connects Kumaon with Garhwal region of the state. He has also shut down illegal slaughter houses in Haridwar and Uttarkashi. Rawat has begun a campaign against illegal mining in the hill state and also for cleanliness.
  
  
 
  Punjab Chief Minister   is not able to make up his mind whether his council of ministers should have beacon lights on their official vehicles. He first issued orders that these be removed, then did a U-turn only to revert to the first decision. He had launched a drive against drug peddlers and 485 offenders have been arrested so far. But there is no indication that any action will be initiated against SAD leader Vikram Majithia, who has faced several allegations in the past. Singh has also begun posting his old loyalists in the bureaucracy and police department to key posts.
  
  
 
  Defence Minister   has moved fast since taking oath as chief minister of Goa on March 14. Within 10 days he presented the budget which broke a few hearts as the price of beer and petrol was increased. Like the other newly inducted  , he too has not lagged behind in making promises. Parrikar wants to make Goa garbagefree by 2020 and make the state beggar free as well. His budget had a human touch as he announced creation of a social infrastructure corpus for welfare of autistic and old people.
  
  
 
  Former footballer and new chief minister of Manipur N Biren Singh’s biggest achievement is removing the economic blockade, which was on for several months, within two days of assuming office. That BJP being in power at the Centre and the state is obviously a big help. His biggest challenge will be warding off neighbouring Nagaland’s demand for greater Nagalim, which means giving away some territory from Manipur. Biren Singh has promised a corruption-free government and also ordered a probe into Rs 8-crore CCTV scam of 2010.
  
  All these governments have promised good governance, development and a corruption-free dispensation. One will only know how much they have succeeded after the initial euphoria settles down and these regimes get down to the more serious issues facing these states. 
