SURAT: Two junior cops on duty at Dabhel check point of   were thrashed by about dozen people early on Wednesday when they chased a suspicious vehicle coming from Daman. Eleven persons were booked for attacking the cops.

 In the attack, complainant Rahul Mesan (28), a constable at Vapi town police station and  , a home guard jawan, suffered serious injuries on head and back and were hospitalised. Both the cops were in civil dress and keeping watch at movement of vehicles entering in state from Daman. They tried to stop a car that was coming from Daman at a high speed but the car did not stop. Later they chased the car in a private car. However, two other car with friends of those sitting in the first car, came from behind.
 
 On noticing a car chasing them the three cars stopped at a distance on   to   road. After getting down they started thrashing the cops claiming that they were men of Chetan. The cops were attacked using wooden baton and pipes. The attackers later escaped from the spot. 
 
 Initially, it was suspected that the cops were thrashed by bootleggers but investigations revealed that they were attacked by a group of people who suspected the cops to be members of some other group with whom they had fight at a bar in Daman. Sources in police informed that the attackers belong to BJP politician’s group. 
 
 Police booked drivers of three cars along with eight other under Indian Pinal Code sections 143 unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with deadly weapons), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 333 (hurting public servant on duty) and others.
 
 Investigations revealed that the attackers, who are from a group of a senior BJP leader from Daman, had a fight with group of a person identified as Chetan at a bar in Daman. After fight the accused were escaping from the spot and entered in Gujarat border when the cops suspected them to be bootleggers. 
 
 “We are investigating the case and cannot reveal much details. We have brought in some suspects for questioning,” said, Sunil Joshi, superintendent of police, Valsad.
 
