Gurgaon: Developers in Haryana are making use of the window provided by the draft state   rule, published on Friday, to get out of the ambit of the regulatory authority. On the first working day after the draft rule was announced, over 50 applications were submitted with the department of town and country planning (DTCP), seeking   (OC). Many more applications for OC are likely to be submitted in the next few days, most of them from Gurgaon.

 The draft rule for Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules (H-Rera) 2017 has let off most ongoing housing projects from the regulatory authority’s ambit. The draft seeks to exclude projects which have received part completion or occupation certificates. Even those projects, for which application for grant of OC/part OC have been submitted, have been left outside H-Rera, provided the OC/part OC is granted by the competent authority within three months of the application.
 
 Taking advantage of this provision, developers are flooding DTCP with applications seeking OC or part. “The biggest developers are submitting a large number of application for OC for different projects,” said a senior DTCP official, adding that one of the biggest Gugaon-based developer has submitted 15 applications for part OC alone. There is a sudden rush among developers to get OCs, so that their projects remain outside the ambit of H-Rera.
 
 Most of the projects for which developers have applied for OC since Friday are incomplete and inhabitable. “DTCP has issued an oral instruction to field staff not to rush in granting OCs,” he said.
 
 “Getting OC is not easy. It often takes several months. Developers who have applied for OCs, will have to speed up work at their sites to complete their projects within three months,” said a developer with several projects in Gurgaon. He said many things will change once H-Rera comes into effect, so there is a rush to keep projects alive.
 
 According to an Assocham report released on April 9, in Haryana, on an average, real estate projects are running 44 months behind scheduled delivery dates, with a large number of projects in various stages of construction. For the past one year, homebuyers of several projects across Gurgaon have been protesting and raising these issues on various forums.
 
 Homebuyers reacted to the development, blaming the state government for tweaking the draft state Rera rule only to help developers. “The latest development has given credence to our apprehension that the government will keep supporting developers at the cost of buyers,” said homebuyer Suresh Sharma, adding that the government has deserted them despite several assurance to the contrary.
 
 “The state diluted the rule. Rera has become a showpiece. Homebuyers are unlikely to get any relief, even after the regulatory authority is formed,” said Sandeep Mishra, adding homebuyer will hit the streets to protest this unholy alliance between developers and the government.
 
 
