NEW DELHI: The SC-mandated   on Friday enforced pollution control measures in the capital for the “very poor” and “moderate to poor” categories under the Centre’s graded response action plan. 

 For rest of the NCR, only the “moderate to poor” category has been rolled out.
 
 What this essentially means is that Delhi will have to enforce a ban on diesel generator sets (except for certain essential sectors), increase bus and Metro services and impose differential rates for public transport if air quality slips into the “very poor” category. Also, use of coal or firewood in open eateries will be stopped and the government will have to issue an alert in newspapers/TV/radio, asking people with respiratory and cardiac issues to avoid polluted areas.
 
 Delhi, along with rest of the NCR, will also enforce interventions specified under the “moderate to poor” category, such as a blanket ban on  , stringent regulation of emissions from thermal power plants and industries, among others.
 
 Officials from the   will meet the Delhi chief secretary next week to discuss implementation of the plan. They will visit all NCR towns to sensitise local governments.
 
 On Friday, though, Delhi’s air quality was surprisingly better than it usually is in January –recording a PM2.5 average of 90 micrograms per cubic metre (moderate to poor category) against 130 µg/m³ on Thursday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. The AQI on Friday was 229 -- in the “poor” category; Faridabad, in fact, even recorded a “satisfactory” AQI.
 
 An EPCA member said: “Delhi's air quality is improving. We think there won’t be a need to implement emergency measures until next winter. We also hope that other measures will be implemented so effectively that there will be no emergency.”
 
 But what the EPCA announcement means is that as and when air quality deteriorates, Delhi must be ready to implement interventions for poor, very poor and even severe air quality. On Friday, actions under both “very poor” and “poor” categories were discussed threadbare, but it also emerged that some of these interventions would need the governments to come up with a plan, or a policy, first.
 
 Parking policy
 
 One of the key interventions for “very poor” days is to hike parking fee by 3-4 times. EPCA member Sunita Narain said the fine for illegal parking under the MV Act needed to be enhanced. “Come up with a plan with Delhi Police so that there is no illegal parking. The effort is to see that it acts as a car-restraint policy,” said another EPCA member.
 
 Drive against visibly polluting vehicles 
 
 To begin with, EPCA directed Delhi and other NCR towns to enforce an “intensive” two-week drive against visibly polluting vehicles, imposing a challan of Rs 1,000 for each violation. 
 
 It also directed Delhi government to procure smoke detectors for vehicles, using the air ambience fund, which has collected more than Rs 100 crore (a fund created from the 25-paise cess charged on every litre of diesel in Delhi).
 
 “How about cancelling the license of PUC centres that have given certificates to vehicles that are visibly polluting?” asked an EPCA member. Delhi Pollution Control Committee members, however, said that it may just lead to legal hurdles.
 
 “Essential” sectors to be exempted from DG set ban
 
 “Marriage ceremonies are definitely not an emergency. They shouldn’t be exempt (from DG set ban),” said an EPCA member. DPCC officials said they would make a list of essential DG set users based on residential and industrial units they have issued consent to. EPCA clarified that hospitals were definitely exempt. It also directed the Delhi government to commission a study on industries located in unauthorised areas within Delhi.
 
 Brick kilns and cleaner technology 
 
 EPCA pushed NCR governments to ensure that all brick kilns implement the “zig-zag” technology, as specified by the ministry of environment and forests, which can reduce emissions by 80%. MoEF officials said they need more time notify the new technology, so till then, state pollution control boards could issue directions to shut brick kilns during high pollution months.
 
 Badarpur plant closure
 
 Delhi government officials said they would not reopen Badarpur power plant unless there was a severe power shortage. Both CPCB and DPCC officials said air quality was much better this winter compared to previous year.
 
 VAT waiver on CNG
 
 EPCA asked the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and state governments of Haryana, UP and Rajasthan to waive VAT on CNG. EPCA asked for CNG stations to be set up in Haryana and UP soon. It directed Delhi Metro to increase the number of coaches at the earliest and introduce differential pricing.
 
 CPCB said it has already set up a task force with state pollution control boards, IMD and others experts and will give PM2.5 average concentrations and weather and air quality forecasts for three days on a daily basis to EPCA and state governments. Delhi government assured EPCA that it would set up 20 new air quality monitoring stations within the city.
 
 NCR government officials said they were ready to implement the scheme.
 
 
