KURUKSHETRA:   dealers have decided to take day off on Sundays and follow a one-shift-sale model from 9am to 6pm to press for their pending demands. A resolution in this regard was moved at a meeting of the Consortium   for taking a weekly off. The all-India organization has representation of 53,000 petrol pump dealers. The decision would be applicable after May 10 unless the government intervenes.

 The meeting held at Kurukshetra on Sunday also had food and supplies minister, Haryana,   in attendance as he who is himself a retail outlet dealer. The committee also took up a resolution to declare a no purchase day on May 10 and dealers would resort to ‘one-shift-sales, that is, from 9 am to 6 pm.
 
 Presently many outlets function between 6am and 10pm while some are open round the clock and seven days a week.
 
 The resolution has been taken as the oil companies have not released the dealer margins since 2011. The meeting was organized in order to discuss challenges in the industry due to failure of oil marketing companies of not implementing the norms stipulated in the   Report on RO Dealer Margins, even after directions by the government of India in September 2013.
 
 Chairman CIPD, legal affairs, Ramesh Kundan Mal told TOI, “The agitation is part of a nationwide protest called by the Confederation of Indian Petroleum Dealers (CIPD), which is demanding implementation of the recommendations of the Apurva Chandra committee, appointed by the ministry of petroleum and Nnatural gases in 2010.”
 
 He said, “The decision was earlier to be taken by the government by December 31, 2016, but was delayed till March. We were called up on March 9 but instead we were informed that OMCs oil marketing companies would need a further two months to place recommendations before their Board and Finance Committee.”
 
 He further added that this way dealers are put to a position to cross sales targets and that will gradually bankrupt the dealers therefore it is necessary to take some hard decisions to avoid RO dealers from falling into trap of bankruptcy.
 
 Kamboj on the other hand has assured the CIPD members that he would call them for a meeting and is well aware of all the problems and would help them to get their problems resolved.
 
 
