Demonetization, Yadav Pari-War, development, caste...the list of issues in multi-layered UP elections can go on. Now, add one more to it--liquor ban. A big election issue in neighbouring Bihar in 2015, prohibition is all set to dominate the campaigning in the districts where Janata Dal (U) would be contesting--especially the ones bordering Bihar going to the polls in the sixth and seventh phase in March.

 Spurned by   and Congress, Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal and Bihar's ruling party JD(U) announced that they would contest all 403 seats in the state in alliance with some smaller outfits. Talking to TOI, JD(U) UP chief Suresh Niranjan Bhaiyyaji said that the party chief and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had already made it very clear that liquor ban would be the party's prime issue. “While our alliance with RLD was being discussed for quite some time, we have now sealed it. We would shortly announce the seats we are contesting,“ he added.
 
 JD(U), which enjoys influence among Kurmi voters as its president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar belongs to the caste, is likely to field its candidates in eastern UP's districts bordering Bihar. Besides being close to Bihar, these districts like Chandauli and Ghazipur have a large population of Kurmi voters. Therefore, the party expects a resonance in 20-odd constituencies of districts like Ballia, Deoria, Padrauna, apart from Chanduli and Ghazipur.
 
 JD(U) state vice-president Srinath Singh Patel also said that liquor ban was prime issue for the party while other issues like `sushashan' (good governance), reservation for women in government jobs and constituencies of general and local body elections, farmers plight, problems of youths and fight against communal forces would also be on the poll plank. On April 1, 2016, when Nitish Kumar imposed prohibition in the state as per his poll promise, tipplers in the neighbouring UP got a bonanza--a massive 25% cut on Indian made foreign liquor. Result: a massive influx of `liquor' tourists from Bihar to borders districts of UP--Chandauli, Ghazipur, Ballia, Deoria and Padrauna. While trains carrying prohibition-struck passengers looking to get rid of their withdrawal symptom across the border for a quick swig were nicknamed `Daru Express', sales volume jumped to the tune of 100% on the UP side. According to deputy excise commissioner Rajesh Mani Tripathi, after liquor ban in Bihar, there was an instant jump in sales in UP districts along Bihar border and between April and December, the sale of IMFL in Chandauli and Ghazipur districts registered a growth of 86.31% and 98.78% respectively . On the other hand, Azamgarh assistant excise commissioner, SP Chaudhary admitted that in Ballia district the growth in IMFL sale was 100%.
 
 In areas closer to the border, like Naubatpur in Chandauli and Bharauli in Ballia the jump was 200%. Officials admitted that liquor available in tetra packs of 180 ml are being sold like hot cake from the bordering shops. An alarmed Nitish, witnessing his grand plan going awry thanks to `wet blanket' thrown from the neighbourhood, made desperate trips to these districts with his `liquor' ban message.
 
 A series of rallies addressed by him had `Sangh mukt Bharat,  ' as their theme. Nitish openly exhorted UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav to follow the Bihar example to `get rid of this evil' and liquor ban. With a Bihar-like maha gathbandhan being discussed in which JD(U) had a major role, liquor ban was ballooning into a major poll issue.
 
 JD(U) held its rallies in Pindra of Varanasi, Kailahat in Mirzapur, Allahabad and also in Lucknow. In all his meetings, Nitish kept his speeches focused on his decision of banning liquor in Bihar and challenged both Akhilesh and Prime Minister   to take follow his example. While PM did not touched the issue of liquor ban during his Varanasi visits after JDU rallies, Akhilesh dodged the quarries on this issue saying mentioning that he already appeals to people to avoid liquor.
 
 The apathy of giant players of UP-Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party--towards Nitsh's appeal and the swiftly changing political landscape-SP's internal feud and failure of Janata Pariwar to forge an alliance-made the role of JD(U) insignificant.However, JD(U) general secretary KC Tyagi has been saying all along that his party would take a plunge in UP polls even without an alliance, if not as a major player, then as a spoiler to stop the `communal forces'. Now that JD(U) is formally in fray , liquor ban is bound to be a major poll issue in district bordering Bihar which JD(U) is targeting--especially as it has found resonance in women voters.
 
