HOWRAH: A day after the mutilated body of  , a 45-year-old bank executive accused of   Rs 35 lakh in banned currency notes, was found on the railway tracks in Howrah, his wife Kavita late on Saturday lodged a formal complaint with Uluberia police accusing Rajat’s senior bank colleagues — the manager and cashier — and a Howrah trader and his aide of abetting the suicide.

 Police have lodged an   (abetment to suicide) and 34 IPC (common intention) against all four, two of whom are absconding. Kavita told police that she suspect that the quartet had connived to “frame” her husband.
 
 The bank manager, however, dismissed the allegations. “These are baseless and motivated. The transactions were done by Choudhury and I had no role to play. The bank documents will prove it. I have informed this to police and on Monday, I will hand these over, along with the CCTV footage, to police,” he told ToI. The cashier, however, wasn’t in his home. His father said, “My son often told us that the bank manager and Choudhury would spell trouble for all of them. I don’t know what he meant by that.”
 
 The trader, who on Thursday lodged a complaint against Choudhury accusing him of fraudulently depositing Rs 35 lakh in his account in banned 1,000 and 500-rupee notes in December, too couldn’t be traced. Acting on an I-T notice to explain the deposits, the trader had gone to police pinning the blame on Choudhury — a business initiator — who was his point-of-contact in the bank. According to Sumit Kumar, SP (rural), Howrah, “We will collect all the necessary documents from the bank. Two among those named in the FIR couldn’t be traced immediately. Everyone will be questioned to establish conclusively the events on Friday leading up to the recovery of the body.”
 
 Money laundering allegations against a section of bank officials had erupted sporadically after November 8. Police and I-T officials had arrested more than five bank officials on allegations of laundering money and trying to pass off black money in the now-banned currency notes. Deposits in the banned currency notes, however, required multiple screening and reporting. Prima facie, police said, it appears unlikely that a single employee will be able to bend the process.
 
 Choudhury’s nephew  , a small-time shop owner, said, “He spoke to me on Friday morning, hours before his death. He told me he needed a lawyer for he felt that his bank manager and cashier were hand in glove with the businessman.” 
 
 According to Kavita, her husband didn’t go to work on Friday. “Around 3pm, he received a call from the bank manager and left home on his motorcycle. After 9.30pm, Kavita received a call from police informing her about the recovery of her husband’s body,” she claimed in the FIR. Choudhury’s widow also told police of a Facebook post that her husband made at 9.02pm on Friday claiming he was not only falsely accused of laundering banned currency notes but also made to admit his guilt in writing.
 
 
