GURUGRAM: The Real Estate (Regulation & development) Act (Rera), 2016, will come into force across the country today, but across Haryana, developers are confused. With the delay in setting up the state’s own real estate regulatory authority, developers are confused about whom to approach for advertisements and sales of their ongoing projects. As per provisions of  , developers cannot advertise or sell units in projects that are under construction, without first getting them registered with the respective state regulatory authority. So far,   has issued a draft rule for   on Friday, seeking suggestions and objections within 15 days, only after which the Act can be notified, leading to formation of the state regulatory authority.

 Rera is a central Act and doesn’t need to be notified by states. It’s only the Union ministry of Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) which notifies the sections, etc. However, states are supposed to make their own rules and set up authorities and tribunals, to function at state and district levels.
 
 As per sections 3 and 4 of Rera, developers and agents have to conform to provisions and register themselves with the authority. “Unless developers register their projects — ongoing or future — they can’t advertise them,” reads a provision of the Act.
 
 Section 3 of Rera says “no promoter shall advertise, market, book, sell or offer for sale, or invite persons to purchase in any manner any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be, in any real estate project or part of it, in any planning area, without registering the real estate project with the Rera established under this Act. Provided that projects are ongoing on the date of commencement of the Act, and for which completion certificate has not been issued, the promoter shall make an application to the Authority for registration of the said project within a period of three months from date of commencement of this Act”.
 
 Wishing anonymity, a developer with several major projects in  , said, “The state authority has not come into existence and there is no provision for registration yet. Draft rule issued by the state government has no mention of the interim time between May 1 and formation of Hrera, and thus there’s no clarity on advertisement and sale of ongoing projects in this period.”
 
 Praveen Jain, the president of National Real Estate Developers Council (NAREDCO), said, “Government has published a draft rule, but there is no clarification on certain issues, especially relating to the interim period from May 1 to when HRera comes into effect.” 
 
 An official of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) said, along with the draft rule, they have also published several forms, including those for registration of projects with Hrera. Regarding the interim period, he said, “We’ll look into it and if required, clarify things to avoid inconvenience.”
 
 
