CALANGUTE: The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to restrict   to Rs 5,000 per week till January 31 has dealt a further blow to the holiday plans of tourists. The extension of the curbs come at the peak of   and tourists are fuming over the inconvenience.

 Stakeholders in the tourism sector resemble a worried lot as the first month of the year appears to be washed out and they fear tourists may cut short their vacation if they run out of patience. “Many foreigners have cancelled their holiday plans in January,” a senior manager at Taj Vivanta, Aguada, said.
 
 Foreign tourists are at their wits’ end as they have to make do with the paltry amount. “This is ridiculous. We were told the restrictions would be lifted after December 31 and we had informed our friends in England that there would be no problem exchanging foreign currency after the new year and they could come down to Goa. But now they have to queue up for money all the time,” a furious British tourist staying in Candolim said.
 
 The limit of Rs 5,000 per week was initially scheduled to last till December 15, but was extended till December 31 post the demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes. Withdrawal curbs for residents also remain unchanged at Rs 24,000 per week.
 
 Many British nationals, mostly retirees, spend a few months of winter in Goa, with a large number of them staying in the   area because of easy availability of continental food and pubs.
 
 A Russian couple with a small boy in tow were seen desperately visiting the ATMs in Candolim near the primary health centre to withdraw cash, as some ATMs were out of order. “It is criminal that tourists, who are guests and who have come to India for a holiday, are made to stand in line for Rs 5,000. I have come here to spend on a holiday, but what is Rs 5,000? It is over in a day,” said Sheryl Rodrigues, a Canadian citizen with roots in south Goa.
 
 Forex dealers are upset with RBI’s decision to extend the curbs on currency exchange and rue that the restrictions have severely impacted their business. “What to do. This is a complete loss for us as we only get Rs 50,000 per week for disbursal to foreigners and this gets over within a few minutes on Monday morning because we can only give Rs 5,000 to 10 customers,” a forex dealer said.
 
 “Now they’re saying this is till January 31, but what if they extend it by another month?” a British tourist said, shaking his head. 
 
 
