SURAT: There is some good news for the weavers in the man-made fabric (MMF) industry.

 Following finance ministry’s order, the directorate general of anti-dumping and allied duties (DGAD), department of commerce,  , has initiated review of anti-dumping duty concerning imports of nylon filament yarn originating from six Asian countries.
 
 Sources said that the industry associations had raised the issue of anti-dumping duty on the import of yarn from last few years in order to protect the weavers from the domestic yarn manufacturers who have literally monopolized the business.
 
 Anti-dumping duty was first imposed on imports of nylon filament yarn from China,  ,  ,  ,   and   vide a department of revenue notification dated August 29, 2006. 
 
 Nylon filament yarn has vast applications in textiles applications, which includes saree, dupatta, women’s dress material, fashion wear, fancy casual knitwear, stockings, intimate wear, lingerie and night wear, kidswear, sportswear, activewear, swimwear, etc. 
 
 A spokesperson of nylon traders association said, “There should be a level playing field for the importers and end users of nylon filament yarn in the city. We have urged the concerned ministries in the Central government to take a neutral approach by fixing anti-dumping duty on the goods imported below certain fair value. If we are importing nylon filament yarn at $3 per kilogram and the same is available on the similar price in the domestic market then there is no question of imposing anti-dumping duty.” 
 
 He added, “About 1,400 tones of nylon filament yarn is to be imported every month to satisfy the manufacturing needs in the city. The domestic nylon yarn manufacturers are not able to satisfy the demand or neither they are interested in upgrading their manufacturing capacity.”
 
 The country’s biggest man-made fibre industry in the city, which contribute to 40% of the man-made fabric demand in the country, houses about 6 lakh weaving machines, out of which 1.5 lakh machines are using nylon filament yarn as their main raw material. 
 
 Moreover, the city houses about 750 warp knitting units — there is a total investment of Rs.300 crore in this sector — using nylon filament yarn as their main raw material
 
 The monthly requirement of nylon filament yarn is about 5,000 tonnes, out of which 3,300 tonnes is supplied by the domestic nylon spinners and the rest is to be imported from the countries like China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia and Korea to satisfy the manufacturing needs of the nylon manufacturers in the city.
 
 
