KHANNA: A social change is sweeping the villages of   sub-division of Ludhiana district. Many village bodies have passed a resolution for   and funerals that require less expenditure.

 Jaspal Singh, sarpanch of Chakohi, said, “About a year ago, we came up with the idea to control heavy spending on marriages and deaths. Later, we passed a resolution in the panchayat. At deaths and marriages in our village, majority of the families go in for a simple feast, comprising daal, vegetable and rice, at a gurdwara. There are no sweets except for prashad and the guests sit on the floor in gurdwara’s langar hall. At 40% funerals and 20% marriages, the resolution has been followed. Fifteen villages, including Pamaddi, Paichghad, Pamma, Gazipur,   and 10 others, have passed such a resolution.” 
 
 Another village Dhamote Kalan has gone a step ahead. “Apart from simple feast at marriages, we have restricted use of DJs and chairs,” said Pargat Singh, the sarpanch. He added that there has been a good response to the resolution, especially from the poor.
 
 In one of the villages, instead of the panchayat, a gurdwara committee has passed such a resolution. It has been supported by the panchayat.
 
 “In our village we didn’t pass the resolution, but a committee of   issued the document, which we support. We want the poor villagers not to be burdened due to heavy expenditure. My niece was also married at a simple function,” said Darshan Singh, sarpanch of   village.
 
 Villagers are happy with the change. “Though I could afford a glittering marriage function, I thought we must bring about a change. I married in a simple manner at a local gurdwara and villagers appreciated it,” said  , a farmer from Chakohi village who tied the knot a few months ago.
 
 Sociologists see it as a good sign. “After the Green Revolution, overspending on marriages and deaths started. It is part of the growing consumer culture, and peasants in Punjab had to even mortgage their lands for it. But such a resolution is a positive step. It will help farmers in the long run,” said sociologist Sukhdev Singh. The reason for many villages taking this step also reflects the fact that majority of the farmers were no longer rich due to growing cost of production and less output, he added. 
 
