GURUGRAM: The city’s permanent gripe over   could come to an end.   has said that he will talk to the   and ensure that autos ply by  .

 “Public transport includes autorickshaws and I am aware that most of them do not ply by meter and demand unreasonable amount. 
 
 “I will talk to the officials of the department concerned and ask them to look into this matter. It is important that autos have meters installed in them and customers are not taken for a ride,” Khattar said in an interaction with TOI earlier this week.
 
 There are around 22,000 autorickshaws in the district — 15,000 shared diesel and 7,000 CNG autos — registered with the regional transport authority.
 
 Agreeing that most of the autorickshaws do not run by meters, Gurgaon deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh said on Friday he will soon call for a meeting with police officials and   drivers’ union to understand what prevents the drivers from installing meters in their three-wheelers.
 
 “When in every other major city autos ply by meter, I fail to understand why can’t the case be the same here in Gurgaon. I will call for a meeting with representatives of the auto drivers to understand what their concerns are. I will discuss this issue with the police and transport department to see how these concerns can be met,” said Singh.
 
 “We can also look at having fixed fare between popular destinations in the city so that even in the absence of meters, the customer knows how much to pay and the autorickshaw drivers don’t demand more money. Missing meters in autos is a huge problem at present and we will try to address this issue in the coming days,” he added.
 
 Commuters said they hope the CM’s words translate into action soon. 
 
 “The other day I wanted to go the nearest Huda City Centre Metro station from Sushant Lok and all the auto drivers demanded at least Rs 50 for the short distance. When I asked them to go by meter, they said they don't have it. The CM should put an end to this problem faced daily by hundreds of commuters like me,” said Kalpana Sharma, a Sector 30 resident.
 
 
