KOCHI: The ongoing  's (IOCL) LPG import terminal project at   has received all the statutory approvals, including  , the company's media statement said. The clarification has come in the background of the local resistance against the construction works at the site. The protestors have been claiming that the project will have an adverse impact on the environment. IOCL is in the process of investing Rs 5,400 crore in various projects in the state. 

 "The   has given clearance for IOCL to go ahead with the project pending a final order on a complaint raised by a group of people.
 
  The high court also passed an order allowing IOCL to work round the clock at the project site. Any delay in implementing the project would result in huge cost overrun besides creating shortage of LPG in the market," said the firm.
 
 According to IOCL, the LPG storage tanks will be in the form of 'Mounded Bullets' which is the safest method of storage of LPG worldwide. "The tanks are covered by reinforced cement concrete walls on all the sides. IOCL adopts global standards of safety across all its projects," the statement said.
 
 The terminal has a capacity of 6 lakh tonnes per year and the project also includes laying of a pipeline from the jetty to Kochi refinery via IOCL's LPG plant in Kochi. "The pipeline would be connected to the Kochi-Salem pipeline, which is also under construction. The entire project, which also includes an LPG terminal being constructed by the BPCL at Palakkad is expected to cost around Rs 2,200 crore. The pipeline is being constructed jointly by the IOCL and the BPCL," the statement said.
 
 Sending the LPG through pipeline will avoid using 500 bullet trucks on the road and thereby ease road traffic, IOCL claims. "The state government is expected to earn an additional tax revenue of around Rs 150 crore per annum. The entire project construction work will provide in employment to over 300 people. The project will also benefit the Cochin Port in terms of the volumes handled and the number of LPG ships expected. The projectwill also bring in livelihood opportunities to scores of local residents, the statement said.
 
 
