THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For Shyama S, it was almost a routine to shy away from sports meets in her school days. She was quite sure that her ‘feminine’ way of walking and gestures would turn her into an object of ridicule for the audience. Almost 8 years after leaving school, Shyama, a transgender, gets a platform to relive her dreams to stage her skills in athletics as the city gears up to host the first ever athletic meet of transgender community on April 28.

 “Why do you run like a woman? This was a common question encountered by many of us and the fear of mockery forces us to stay away from sports days in schools and colleges. Even though we have made our presence felt in the cultural spaces and showcased our talents like in mimicry, dance, mono act and so on, we were never given a platform to explore and experience our skills in sports until now. This event will be a revival of dreams for many including me,” said 25-year-old Shyama, who has just completed MEd.
 
 “The transgender sports meet will be an experience as well as opportunity for everyone in the community,” said Shyama who is also a member of the organizing committee.
 
 The state-level sports meet, which is conducted by the Kerala State Sports Council in a bid to bring members of the transgender community to the mainstream, will include items like sprint in 100m, 200m, 400m, 4x100m, relay, shot put and long jump.
 
 “This will be the first ever transgender sports meet which is an initiative of the government. We are expecting around 20 participants from each district and the representatives of each district will compete among each other. Also, a three-day warm up and coaching in different items will be given to the participants in their respective districts,” said Anil Arjunan, event coordinator.
 
 The state-level sports meet will be conducted on April 28 at the   at Palayam. The organizing committee includes chief minister   as the chief patron, and minister for sports and youth affairs A C Moideen, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran, V S Sivakumar MLA and mayor   as other patrons.
 
