BEHRAMPORE: Three persons, including a Congress district heavyweight, were arrested from Behrampore — the nerve centre of   politics — a day after a   leader was killed and two others critically injured in two separate incidents on Thursday night. This comes 48 hours before the Domkal municipal polls on Sunday.

 Prodded by the higher-ups at Nabanna, Behrampore police inspector Shailendra Biswas has been closed to the district police lines. A Behrampore court has turned down the bail plea by the arrested and remanded them in police custody for four days till Tuesday.
 
 The back-to-back violence on Thursday night points to a method in the killing spree. While assailants sprayed bullets on Ashadul at Bakultala situated in the southeastern part of the town, miscreants attacked local   leader Bhakti Haldar’s brother Shakti at Kunjughata in the northern fringes of the town. The two incidents were enough to spread the scare. 
 
 The violence is a fallout of the political tension building up 35 kilometres away from the town at Domkal, where stakes are high for the ruling party and the opposition. The reason for Behrampore bearing the brunt is because all generals leading the battle are commissioning their force to Domkal from this town. The battle of Behrampore signifies desperate efforts by politicians to snap the supply line of reinforcement of forces to battlefield Domkal. All the leaders — from Trinamool’s projected Domkal municipality chairman Shoumik Hossain, party  , minister of state   to Congress MLA Feroza Begum and the arrested former Murshidabad Zilla sabhadhipati Shiladitya Haldar — hail from Behrampore. In fact, Ashadul was also travelling from Behrampore to Domkal for all these days before he was killed on Thursday night.
 
 “The assailants of Ashadul are all members of the Adhir Chowdhury-run murder syndicate. Three of the seven accused have been arrested as yet. We want the police to seize the illegal fire arms the syndicate has stored for the Domkal polls,” said transport minister Suvendu Adhikari. 
 
 Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury rubbished the charge, saying: “Trinamool leaders are trying to influence the inquiry. I would rather urge upon the CM to institute an independent inquiry into the murder.” It will bear out that the Trinamool student leader was victim of Trinamool’s internal feud. It has nothing to do with our party. Trinamool is deliberately putting the blame on us in a bid to marginalise the Opposition,” Chowdhury said. 
 
 A Congress delegation led by Leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan and Left Front MLAs with   called on state election commissioner A.K. Singh to draw his attention on the law and order situation in the state. 
 
 
