GURGAON: If the odd-even formula is implemented in Gurgaon, it could lead to a shortage of private taxis available in the city should the transport department go ahead with its plan to allow only   to run on those days. 

 That is because, over the last six months, since NCR permits started being issued from Gurgaon, there have been no takers. For a cab to get an NCR permit, which allows it to ply both in Gurgaon and Delhi, it has to be CNG fitted. Currently, the other permit that cabs use is the All India Tourist Permit (AITP), under which diesel cabs can be registered, but they cannot ply in Delhi as taxis. 
 
 Hence, on odd-even days, if NCR cities like Gurgaon also decide to allow only cabs with NCR permits to ply, AITP permit taxis will become ineligible. This will truncate the taxi fleet available in the public transport system. The regional transport authority has already been taking action AITP cabs ferrying passengers. “The NCR taxi scheme puts a check over cabs, especially when it comes to surge-pricing. Allowing NCR permit cabs during odd-even days will only benefit commuters,” a senior transport official said.
 
 The ‘NCR Taxi Scheme 2016’, with features on the lines of private app-based cab aggregators, was approved by chief minister   in August last year for Haryana’s NCR districts. Under the scheme, cabs can only charge the fare prescribed by the transport department, and that’s why there have been no takers for it so far, an official said.
 
 “We have introduced the NCR taxi scheme, which includes a policy for aggregators too. But none of them is willing to take the same. We have to take strict action against them and then only they will come forward and apply for permits,”  , state transport commissioner, told TOI on Friday. Since November last year, the RTA in Gurgaon has carried out enforcement drives and around 250 cabs have been challaned for plying in the city without the NCR permit.
 
 Since 2013, 21,975 cabs have been registered in Gurgaon, mostly under the AITP. If most go off road, last-mile connectivity will depend on a few thousand autos. “Those will be tough times. I hope there is a solution to this issue by the time the   is implemented here,” said Ashita Modi, a business development professional.
 
 The odd-even scheme will kick in only if air pollution reaches ‘emergency’ levels and persists for 48 hours. 
 
 
