Hyderabad: Up in arms against the central government's drug pricing control regime, the Indian pharma industry feels it is a short-sighted move that will stifle innovation in the country. Instead of slashing prices of drugs, the government must focus on holistic development of the healthcare sector, pharma honchos said here on Tuesday. 

 "If the healthcare system is not set, the whole focus goes towards pricing and that is what is happening in India today. if you see the prices of any of the products, they are the lowest (in India).. if we talk of further lowering the cost, then I think we are in for a problem,” Dr Reddy’s Laboratories chairman Satish Reddy said while speaking at the BioAsia 2017 CEO Conclave. The DRL chief said that the government must try to work towards improving the standard of overall healthcare in the country by improving infrastructure and skill sets. He pointed out that the healthcare spend in India is one of the lowest and that needs to change.
 
 Echoing a similar sentiment, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals chairman and MD Glenn Saldanha said, “If the government only looks at the price element, there will be no money left for innovation." He pointed out that innovation in pharma industry is an expensive affair and the challenge is that industry is generally “capital starved”. While acknowledging that innovation is crucial, Telangana IT, industries, MA & UD, NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao said that the government needs to do a “balancing act” by ensuring that masses have access to life saving drugs and at the same time industries too are not hit.
 
 He, however, was quick to add that the state government can work with the industry in addressing these concerns and do a “strong advocacy” by conveying these concerns to the Union government as the decisions regarding drug pricing are taken by the Centre. Meanwhile, talking about other challenges being faced by the pharma industry, Saldanha also made a case for easing regulations for clinical trials in the country.
 
 GlaxoSmithKline President (global R&D) Patrick Vallance too rooted for “regulatory simplification and harmonization” as the clinical development has become too expensive. On the positive side, he said that thanks to development in areas of genetics and technology, pharma firms can reduce the cost of making drugs. “One of the biggest problems in drug discovery is knowing where to start and what to target. One of the things that has happened is a very dramatic change in the understanding of the human biology driven largely, but not exclusively, by genetics. It is important because we are twice as likely to be able to make a drug, if we have genetics as the starting point...that could halve the cost of making the drug,” he said. 
 
 Novartis global head of drug development and CMO Vasant Narasimhan too said that the application of big data and analytics can also bring down the cost of drug discovery but pharma is yet to embrace these technologies. On the ‘Trump effect’ on the pharma industry, both GSK and Novartis top officials indicated that they are in a ‘wait and watch’ mode as drug pricing is a very complex issue in the US. “We are a global company with global operations and it is highly unlikely that we will change that. We know we have got great skill sets globally,” Vallance added.
 
 
