RANCHI: While a few city areas are basking in the glory of illuminated LED lights, others are plunged in darkness, much to the dismay of daily commuters and drivers. 

 The giant electric pole at   has leaned to such an extent that the light does not reflect on the street. 
 
 Fahim Khan, a local resident, said, “After dusk, the light from the slanting overhead lamp post is of no use to us. The lights from passing cars and other vehicles are so blinding that we need to be extra vigilant while driving a two wheeler.”
 
 Dangratoli Chowk, which is an important link for commuters to   railway station, Birsa Munda Airport, Hatia railway station and other parts of the city, has an overhead lamp hidden under the distribution wires, rendering the lamp post superfluous.
 
 The situation at Karbala Chowk is the same, which is used by drivers to reach Bahu Bazar, Main Road, Church Road and Plaza Chowk. There are other areas such as Hindpiri and Hill View road where residents are forced to do without any  . 
 
 There are over 30,000 street lights (LED and sodium vapour) under   ( ), of which over 5,000 are always out of order.
 
 “We have roped in Bright Neon Sign for the maintenance of the street lights. The agency will take up the work based on complaints within 48 hours. We will also send our staff after we receive complaints through our toll free number and ward councillors. On an average, we receive 200 complaints related to non-functioning of street lights,” Nagendra Dubey, section in-charge (Light) of RMC, said.
 
 Dubey added that they are yet to register complaints about Dangratoli and Karbala Chowks.
 
 Paucity of funds is a major problem that hinders regular maintenance of street poles and LED bulbs, a civic body official said.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Bidhyanand Sharma Pankaj said they will soon sign an agreement with Delhi-based Energy Efficiency Service Limited for installation of more street lights. “We will install an additional 16,000 street lights. Last year, we installed around 12,000 LED bulbs and 18,000 vapour lights,” he added.
 
 
