BAREILLY: Encroachment has emerged as a huge menace in the city, with vendors occupying road space and squatting on other public land. Instead of tackling the problem judiciously, authorities are engaged in blame game over the consistent failure of anti-encroachment drives in the past. While   ( ) officials claim that police have failed to keep encroachers off the streets, police has have put the blame on the district administration for not doing enough to rehabilitate evicted encroachers, who return to their spots soon after drives to remove them.
 
  
   , 42, a resident of Biharipur, said, “In the name of anti-encroachment drive, the BMC team removes a few street vendors and makeshift shops from the city roads. The police are least concerned and do not bother to take the notice when the squatters return. There is no coordination between the civic body and the police department.”
  
  “On Monday, the BMC team launched an anti-encroachment drive on the stretch between Ayub Khan and Choupla crossing and removed a few temporary shops and eating joints. The drive continued for nearly an hour. This has become a routine feature of the civic body’s anti-encroachment drive,” said another local, Shashank Agarwal.
  
  Makeshift shopkeepers in the city, meanwhile, claimed that BMC officials had a few years back gave the assurance to them that space would be made available to them to put up stalls, but the civic body did not keep its promise. "The civic body keeps on talking about rehabilitating us but nothing has been done so far. It is not easy for us to relocate as this will affect our livelihood,” said Saquib Ali, a fruit vendor near Indira Market.
  
  Bareilly Municipal Corporation and police officials continue to blame each other for the failure of anti-encroachment drives. Municipal commissioner Sheeldhar Singh Yadav told TOI, "The civic body has been removing the squatters and kiosks from public places but the city police do not take proper action to keep them at bay, and this encourages the evicted hawkers to return.”
  
  Speaking to TOI, circle officer (city)   said, “There is no sustainable model to relocate these encroachers, and it is difficult for us to monitor them round the clock. We only assist the authorities in such drives. Now, we will try to keep a track of developments post anti-encroachment drives.”
  
  Meanwhile, BMC's anti-encroachment drive, which began on Monday, will continue till May 29. On Tuesday, anti-encroachment drive was carried out at on the stretch between Ayub Khan and Qutubkhana. “We have removed 30 pole boards, two illegal stands and 10 stalls. Around 60-70 squatters were also removed from both sides of the district hospital gate,” said Jaipal Patel, incharge of BMC’s anti-encroachment drive team.
