CHANDIGARH: Two   posted with the Haryana department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare landed themselves in contempt loop for not complying with the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, for which bailable warrants were issued to secure their presence in the court.

 However, timely intervention of the department officials on Friday saved both the officers from embarrassment by instantly complying with the court directions following which the HC withdrew  .
 
 The officers against whom warrants were issued included principal secretary Abhilaksh Likhi and agriculture and farmers welfare department director general D K Bahera.
 
 Recalling the orders regarding issuance of bailable warrants against the two bureaucrats, Justice Jaswant Singh of the HC however directed Bahera to appear before it on April 6 in the contempt case.
 
 The matter was pending before the HC in the wake of a contempt petition filed by one   seeking directions to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the senior officers of the department for not allowing her to join on the post of agriculture development officer (ADO).
 
 Suman had appeared for the selection on the post of ADO in the agriculture department in 2009. She was kept in the waiting list by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) along with seven others in the final merit list declared in July 2012. The petitioner stated that the candidature of eight candidates, selected and recommended for appointment as ADO from out of the 115 belonging to the  , had been cancelled and yet she was denied appointment despite being placed number six in the waiting list.
 
 She also submitted that only three candidates were selected from the waiting list and five posts of ADO against the general category are still lying vacant.
 
 Allowing her plea on September 22, 2016, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa had directed the department to give her appointment within 30 days. However, till date she was not given appointment by the department after which she had filed contempt plea.
 
 Hearing her plea on March 2, the HC had directed the department to either issue an appointment letter to the petitioneer or the principal secretary of the department be present in the court.
 
 When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, the department came up with an appointment letter but the same was not as per the HC directions. Justice Singh had then issued warrants against Likhi and Bahera. However, the same were withdrawn on Friday, after the appointment letter was issued to petitioner as per HC directions.
 
