Movies like '50 first dates' and books like 'The Choice' by Nicholas Spark have made us set unlimited expectations from life, and when these bloated expectations are not met with, reality hits us really hard. And, this happens mostly to   whose world only revolves around their home and family. Their world comes down crashing the moment they have nobody to go back home to even if they are doing excellent in their respective careers or have complete family support.
 
  When was the last time you found a very successful man extremely unhappy because his personal life was in shambles? Well, we bet you won’t remember many instances and that’s because it’s women who are getting used to taking up all the burden of a failed relationship and not the men.
  
  If you’re wondering what triggered all these thoughts inside me, here’s the answer- it was a usual day at the family court, I was waiting for a post divorce counselling session. My ex-husband was conspicuous by his absence as he had better things to do than turning up at the court. I was quiet but couldn’t resist striking a conversation with this angelic young woman sitting next to me, who was busy reading a document.
  
  She was there as part of an initiative to form a group of women, whose   orders were pending since years. I too was asked about whether my alimony was settled or not.
  
  Five minutes into the conversation, I realised I wasn’t the only woman feeling miserable here. She gave me insights about women (she being one of them), who were on the verge of ending their lives because they were not able to handle the divorce trauma, also the fact that their alimony was taking so long, they had lost all hope for future.
  
  I only asked one question, are you working? She replied with a “No”
  
  My turn came and I left for the counselor’s office to get the next date for counselling as my ex-husband had not shown up. Post the session, I came out looking for the young woman, who was contemplating suicide (at least that’s what she had claimed) I couldn’t have lived with the guilt of not talking her out of the supposed suicide, wanted to tell her it was pointless to end her life for someone who had given you nothing but pain.
  
  She had gone and so had the opportunity to shake her up from her deep slumber like ignorance about the importance of the chance she had at life.
  
  The episode left me bitter about the society which had still chained women from being independent. Well, what is the use of educating girls when they are not willing to be independent?
  
  Is divorce such a big tragedy that it would drive a woman to suicide and not make her strong to live and fight? Why does our society not accept the fact that a woman also has the right to live alone, the way some men live?
  
  Don’t we always doubt that person who decided to spend his/her life alone? Yes, we do.
  
  Even now when I go out to a restaurant, I can see lots of eyebrows raised at me because I am not with my father or  , or at least some a male friend.
  
  We expect a son from our family to set up a business for himself, expect him to take responsibility of his own and family finances. What are we teaching to girls? To find a good husband and get married? Families do not expect her to take responsibility of her own. They just pass on her responsibility to her husband. When a woman is not married, people do let her live peacefully, they nag for not getting married. Women who are thinking about walking out of their marriage are considered to be corrupt and told to live with it and adjust and find a solution.
  
  I have a piece of advice for women going through painful divorces and fighting for an alimony- get rid of the hurt, the insult, move on and get over your sad past. What’s the point of depending on a man who hurt your beyond words even if it’s for money? Explore your options and spend some time outside the court.
  
  Orson Welles once said, ‘We're born alone, we live alone, we die alone. Only through our love and friendship can we create the illusion for the moment that we're not alone.' End the illusions and deal with life, even if it’s unfair.
  
  
  
