While India churns out some of the brightest minds in the world, little credit can be given to the education system. In a bid to fill the lacuna in the education landscape,   set up   in Jan 2010. Roy talks to TOI about his startup, its various programmes and how they addresses various aspects of education.

 
 
 I spent my childhood in Bengaluru before moving to the US. When I returned to India in 2009, I witnessed stark differences between the way children are raised and educated there and here. One has to go to the back of the resume to see a child’s extracurricular achievements. The expectation is on academic excellence and not all roundedness. I wanted to change that.
 
 With Leapstart, we are offering physical education to school kids in a fun and engaging manner. Schools in India are the last bastions of open space. Physical education programmes in schools focus only on the top 5. There are life lessons to be learnt from sports. Ability to deal with failure, strategy, being alert - these are skills that one needs even in their professional life.
 
 
 
 The fundamental fallacy in our system is that no one is measuring movement on an ongoing basis. We need to educate parents in India on the significance of fitness and its benefits. If we can show that when children are active, they do well in class, we will be able to prove our point.
 
 With today’s lifestyles, parents are busy these days and realise their kids have health issues too late sometimes. We want to proactively give suggestions and push parents to participate more with children. Sending push recommendations to parents, reminding them to consume more water when the temperature is rising is one simple example.
 
 
 
 For grades 6, 7 and 8, we have Eureka which is a programme of hands on activities for science learning. It focuses on exploring the everyday materials and making working models based on scientific principles. The programme stimulates students' sensory experiences relevant to the concepts from the school curriculum and helps develop their thinking, observation and analytical skills as an essential process of science learning.
 
 DiscoverED is a guided-inquiry approach for the much neglected STEM education in the country. Through a fictional character Dr Multipus, we offer fun science activities to promote the use of scientific principles, processes and evidence. These experiences allow children to relate what they learn at school (curriculum) to real-life applications.
 
 Today we live in black box culture and kids just know principles because they have to learn them. They don’t know how or why things work and we don’t need highly complicated equipment. These efforts can fire interest in ways that we don’t know. Tomorrow’s world is going to be full of competition and our kids need to have a level playing field.
 
 
 
 In today’s system, the ‘smart’ kids synthesise information and transpose it quickly. However, our system is too rigorous and regimented to allow free thinking. There isn’t enough encourage for any lateral ‘out of box’ things.
 
 It’s not enough if we have good  . They need to be packaged in an interesting way. So Grooming Artistic Innovation & Talent (GAIT) is a programme that enables children to discover their creative potential, using movement as a medium of expression. We use elements of dance and theatre to stimulate innovative thinking.
 
 We conduct this programme in 45 schools in seven cities. This is a long-term project because we may not see benefits immediately. Positives will accrue and show 10-15 years from now but we should be trying today.
 
 
