MANIPAL: The three-day   on ‘Impact of   on Women and Children’ organized by  ,  , in collaboration with 24 national and international institutions from 14 countries began here on Monday. Following the formal inauguration by Priyanka Mary Francis, CEO, Udupi ZP, plenary sessions began with speakers from different countries sharing their experiences with about 425 participants.

 Priyanka Francis in her inaugural address emphasized on the initiatives taken by the zilla panchayat to manage malnutrition among pregnant woman and also to reduce infant mortality rates. 
 
 She briefed about the supplementation of nutritious food to pregnant women through the ICDS scheme. She also highlighted the development of android applications to address the concerns of empowerment of women for ASHA workers.
 
 Dr H S Ballal, pro-chancellor, Manipal University, who presided over the function highlighted the vision of Dr T M A Pai, founder of the university in dealing with issues of ill-health, illiteracy, and poverty. He also said that it was the responsibility of every citizen to see that women are empowered and are supported to achieve higher status. He commended the roles played by women prominent leaders in various fields.
 
 Dr Mariko Ohara, Masako Saito, Yoshiko Tsukada from Japan highlighted how the country was devastated with natural calamities and the measures taken to prevent it in future and also how to mitigate the sufferings of people. They also emphasized on various training programmes being undertaken to prepare people for such disasters and create awareness in the day’s plenary session on lessons learned from global disasters (flood, tsunami and earthquake).
 
 Meyenburg-Altwarg Iris Karin from Germany who addressed the session on impact of violence, war, terrorism on child and women dwelt on various forms of violence among children and stressed on teaching the children to say ‘stop’ and talk openly about abuse. Drs Majeda A Al-Ruzzieh, Elissa Ladd, Gugu Mchunu and Asha P Shetty from Jordan, USA, South Africa and India, respectively addressed issues on biological health issues such as breast cancer, cervical cancer.
 
