BENGALURU: Junking the conventional roti, kapda aur makaan and bijli, sadak, paani strategies, netas in Bengaluru are coming of age and rewriting their strategies to woo voters: they have begun equipping streets with surveillance cameras to ensure safety.

 Cutting across party lines, Bengaluru MLAs have been spending money from their   (LAD) fund to make closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras a common fixture at vantage points in their respective assembly constituencies. The MLAs have made “public safety“ their new political performance indicator and have been emphasizing on   as these would not only act as crime deterrent but also help police in tracking criminals. Each MLA is sanctioned Rs 2 crore per year under the   and of this, Rs 30 lakh can be used for installation of CCTVs. 
 
 Basavanagudi MLA LA Ravi Subramanya (BJP), who has been the trailblazer in this regard, has installed 380 CCTV cameras across his constituency in the last one year. He plans to scale up the number to 500 In two months. In fact, Subramanya took up CCTV installation at a time when police had just 152 cameras for the entire city.
 
 “Police did not give a single camera for my constituency. But today we have connected all our CCTV cameras to the jurisdictional police station; cops can see on screen what's happening on the streets. Police themselves have admitted that the cameras have reduced crime rate in the area,“ Subramanya told TOI. A separate team has been set up for the maintenance of the cameras.
 
 Each CCTV camera costs anywhere between Rs 12,00060,000, depending on specifications. “We are installing high-definition cameras equipped with number-plate readers and are also looking at CCTVs with face-recognition technology,” Subramanya said, adding MPs Ananth Kumar and Rajeev Chandrashekar too have provided him with funds.
 
 Initially, people were hesitant to provide space for installation of cameras, but now they are demanding that cameras be placed near their houses. “CCTV spots have been chosen following discussions with resident welfare associations and police. In some places, a few mask-wearing mischief-mongers have tried to remove the cameras, but these were replaced with new ones immediately.”
 
 Hebbal MLA Y A Narayanaswamy (BJP) has set a target of 300 CCTVs by 2017-end. He has already installed 85 CCTVs on different roads in his constituency. "We are working towards making our area a crime-free zone. The CCTVs will check drug peddling near schools and colleges and also reduce the number of chain snatching and eve-teasing incidents," said Narayanaswamy .
 
 Shantinagar MLA N A Haris (Congress) said: “CCTVs are needed. These will ensure safety and keep anti-social elements under check. We will install them in strategic locations in consultation with police and local resident welfare groups."
 
 Malleswaram MLA C N Ashwath Narayan and Rajajinagar MLA Suresh Kumar, Bengaluru development minister-cum-Sarvagnanagar MLA K J George and housing minister-cum-Vijayanagar MLA M Krishnappa are also working on the CCTV installation projects.
 
