We generally see mothers cheering for their kids on the sports field from the stands, but on Saturday, kids of the members of   were in the stands and cheering for their mothers. The ladies participated in various sports as part of ‘The Mother of All – Sports Day’ at Kunskapsskolan International School. "My mom’s team has won in kabaddi, she was so good today," said five-year-old 
Avika to her friend proudly.
 
 
 
 Miles away from the Millennium City, the event had a number of activities lined up. After a workout session, moms chose to participate in a number of games like shooting, badminton, archery, basketball and the game that everyone loved – kabaddi. In kabbadi, both the teams were competitive and were heard encouraging their teammates by saying, “Chal chal Geeta, harna nahin hai.”
 
 
 
 
  
  Mini golf was on the itinerary as well (BCCL)
 
 
 
 It is not everyday that moms get to play kabaddi or try their hand at archery. "The kabaddi match reminded me of my school days because I was in my school’s kabaddi team. My daughter was also here so she got a little worried when I fell, but that’s part of the game," said Moyna Rana, a Sector 49 resident.
 
 
 
 
  Aim right! Neha Khanna, a resident of Palam Vihar, during shooting practice (BCCL)
 
 
 "It brought out the child in almost everyone. All moms were like kids today. I remember, there was a point when a member from the opponent team had come and we all surrounded her so our coach intervened, and joked, ‘Dushman nahin hai woh tumhari’," said Vidya Deshpande, a resident of DLF Phase 3 and also a member of Gurgaon Moms. She added, "Moms get very little time to let their hair down and to take part in activities like these. Most of the time, they are taking their kids for hockey or basketball, but they never get the time to play these games."
 
 
 
 
  Smita Vaishnava (L), a Sector 83 resident, and Parul Bhargava Sharma, a Sector 17 resident, during a badminton match at the event (BCCL)
 
 
 Talking about the sports day for mothers, Neela Kaushik, who is also the founder of Gurgaon Moms, said that they plan to organize this event annually. "We all have one goal – to be fit. That is why we organized this event where mothers could participate in a number of activities, which they can’t on a day-to-day basis. It felt great to see that our kids were supporting us and were happy to see their moms having a great time."
 
 
