 is a well-known name in the DJ circuit. But his stint as an RJ and VJ for a popular television channel is what made him a household name, back in the 90s. Nikhil is also known to bringing prominent DJs to India. What with Swedish House Mafia, Hardwell and   — all performing here, thanks to his efforts. Nikhil was in the city recently as part of the show by Above & Beyond. No stranger to the city’s DJ circuit, Nikhil rattles off names of those whom he knows from the city with a smile. “I know Chubby, Arjun, Judy, Vijay Chawla and Tuhin. We have got some great talents from this place. They have worked really hard to bring the music scene to where it is today. The reason we are coming to Chennai is because the local DJs in Chennai have built a fan following for EDM music. So, we can come down confidently and have shows here. It is their hard work that has made this show possible,” he says. He goes on to talk to us about his Chennai memories, favourite gig spot and more...

 
 I started off doing a radio show in Chennai, back in 1995. It was called, Chennai Chill Out. Right after that I joined  . I am also close to   who took over the show after me and we are still very close. I also remember going for clubbing at a few pubs here. There has always been a vibrant night life in Chennai. The impression that the rest of India has is that Chennai is very conservative. But I think that is a very wrong impression. Chennai has the best of both the worlds. It retains the traditional values and still accepts what the rest of the world has to offer. Here, a girl wears a Kanchipuram sari for a wedding, goes back home, changes into a dress and heads to a pub. I cannot imagine that happening elsewhere.
 
 
 India has an emerging events market; there is not so much of a party scene. And when I say events market, I am talking about live events, big concerts, college events, club events, etc. We cannot compare ourselves to the west because there all this is nearing a saturation point — a lot of big festivals are no longer being held as the organisers are facing loses. Whereas in India, the growth scale in the events sector is phenomenal. There are so many events and new festivals happening here. The college market is also expanding. The number of live bands and DJs performing at colleges is phenomenal.
 
 
 This time, I came to Chennai for the opening of Above & Beyond. They are fantastic, not only for their music, but with the kind of relationship they keep with their fans in India. I have been bringing them to India for the last 10 years and they love coming here. This time, they are performing only in Chennai and Hyderabad — their first visits to both the cities. It is great because they will get to discover two new cities and fans will get to listen to their music live.
 
 
 A lot of people say that DJing is not about music, it is just about doing stuff on a computer. Above & Beyond have performed live across the world. They can use different instrument and can do an acoustic show, too. Their music adapts to any given space. As for depending on technology, it is like going by the infinite monkey theorem, where if a monkey is given a typewriter, it can almost write like Shakespeare. Technology is a great enabler. It makes the art form accessible to more people. If you want to be an artiste, there is no way you can avoid the 10,000 hour rule. You still have to put in that many hours of energy and hard work and study the art form. You have to know music intimately, there is no getting around that. In a dumbed down fashion, you might say that the computer does most of the work.  , it does, but you can also use your creative energy to do 20 other things, because the mixing is taken care of by the machine. It gives you the time to create a sound that is far more evolved and beautiful.
 
 
 Electronic dance music relies a lot on collaborations — artistes working together. You get to work with people who live in different continents. 
 
 
 It has to be Goa. There is something really nice about playing music, with sun setting on the horizon in the background. Even if there is nobody around, the sight of the sunset and music is almost therapeutic. Goa holds a special space in both our hearts — Pearl’s (Nikhil’s wife) and mine.
 
