Mumbai: Global risk investor  , managing assets worth $50 billion in private equity and credit businesses, is exiting India at a time when its peers   and   are in the midst of hectic investment activity in Asia’s third largest economy. Providence, which opened an office in New Delhi 10 years ago, has seen most of the senior executives, including managing director and partner, Biswajit Subramanian, quit the firm.

 Providence will not pursue new investments locally, and look at divesting the current India portfolio—Indus Towers,  ,   and   — together valued at around $1 billion. Last month, it completed a staggered exit from Kumar Birla-controlled  , which is merging with Vodafone’s Indian unit. to create a $23-billion industry leader.
 
 “While we have had many successful investments in India and appreciate the partnerships we developed with business leaders and entrepreneurs there, we are scaling back our operations in the country and focusing primarily on the US and Europe, where we see significant opportunities,” a Providence spokesperson said in an emailed response to TOI. “Bis Subramanian has been a tremendous partner over his 17 years with Providence, and is leaving to pursue other interests,” the statement added.
 
 Incidentally, the decision of Providence to move out coincides with record investment activity totalling $40 billion in the past two years. Big private equity firms are sitting on a steady deal pipeline even as they begin reaping return on their past investments, the lack of which has been a cause of concern until recently. Private equity firms took home $20 billion in the last two years, prompting some of them to cut bigger cheques and chase buyout opportunities as large Indian corporations mull ‘deconsolidation’.
 
 It is learnt that Providence is retaining a director Varun Laul, either as an employee or as a consultant, to manage current investment relationships and monetise the same in the near future. Earlier this month, TOI reported that the largest European buyout fund   , managing assets worth $80 billion, was setting up Mumbai office. Private equity watchers said one of the reasons for the exit of Providence, which has invested more than $1 billion locally, was the lacklustre investment sentiments in sectors like telecom, media and entertainment.
 
 , where the firm has had a strong focus. Providence owns 18% in UFO Moviez, 17.5% in Hathway and has 50% stake in ShopCJ, a home shopping TV JV it runs with South Korea’s CJ Corporation. It has a 5% stake in the largest telecom tower assets company  , where it could join hands with Vodafone (42%) and Idea Cellular (11%) in jointly monetising the investment.
 
 
