Tireless efforts in the last few years have resulted in reduced number of   cases in Europe and America, but it is growing rapidly in India and Asia with more and more people adopting western lifestyle.

 
 
 
 
 A Heart Attack occurs when blood supply to the heart gets interrupted due to a blockage in the blood vessel carrying blood to the heart. This causes destruction of heart cells. 
 
 
 
 
 1. Meet your doctor immediately. 2. Get an E.C.G. Test done. 3. Thoughts like "It's just gas, I don't need to visit a doctor, I can't be having a heart attack'' can be fatal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 A Heart Attack begins with a radiating pain or discomfort in the central area of chest, which lasts for a few minutes or recurs at irregular intervals. One may feel discomfort, pressure, suffocation, heaviness in the chest area. Resting does not relieve this pain. Some other symptoms such as problems in breathing, puffing, fatigue or vomiting, feeling disoriented or fainting, restlessness or cold sweat, weariness. 
 
 
  In today's era, the best cure for heart attack is opening the blockage immediately, i.e. placing a stent through coronary angioplasty. This facility is available 24 hours at discounted rates at  , Ravi Hospital, Delhi Gate, Agra. Dr. Deepak Agrawal, Senior Heart Disease Specialist has performed 1000-2000 angioplasties and stents. He has worked as a Heart Disease Specialist at renowned hospitals of Delhi such as Apollo, Escort, Metro, Batra and is now available 24 hours at Heart Relief Centre, Delhi Gate.
 
 
 
 
 1. Quit smoking, avoid using tobacco. 2. Adopt an active lifestyle. 3. Keep your high blood pressure under control. 4. Adopt a healthy and balanced diet, avoid oily and salty food. 5. Keep your weight under check. 6. If you are diabetic, keep blood glucose level under control. 7. Get tested for blood cholesterol, keep it under control if found. 8. Control your stress levels. 9. Do regular health check-ups. 10. Take medicines as directed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
