‘If you had only one book to read again and again for the rest of your life, what would it be?’ The Japanese author's one of the most popular accounts on Twitter with over 186 K followers, claims it is  ! When the question was tweeted by ‘Bookends Noreen’, the response from the account (an unofficial one) had to be this all-time favourite novel.(Though we would love to hear it from the author himself!)

 
 
 
 Norwegian Wood was published in 1987 and instantly clicked with the Japanese youth, making the realist fiction author a superstar in his country. The novel is a nostalgic story of loss and proliferating sexuality. Like most of his novels, Norwegian Wood is written in the first person narrative and explores the inner core of the puzzled youth of that time.
 
 Though Murakami's most notable works include A Wild Sheep Chase, The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle,   on the Shore and 1Q84, here are five more books by the author that are equally captivating.
 
 
 
 In this book, Murakami blends the elements of American and English literature in a Japanese context. It is an amalgam of mystery and magical realism with a post-modern twist.
 
 
 
 About unrequited love and love for same sex, this novel dares to differ in an overwhelmingly conformist society. It deals with the conflict between following one's dreams and clamping down on them in order to be accepted in the society.
 
 
 
 Published in 2013, this book sold one million copies in a month. The protagonist spends most of the time in understanding why his friends expelled him from the group during the college days. The book is all about growing up and accepting the hard truths about oneself.
 
 
 
 A collection of six stories the book was written between 1999-2000. The stories are based on  's 1995 Kobe earthquake. All the stories are told in third-person, unlike his familiar first person narrative in most of the novels.
 
 
 Despite being one of the early works of the author, this book holds several elements of his later works. Exploring the themes of loneliness, companionship, purposelessness and destiny, it is the second book in the ‘Trilogy of the Rat’series.
 
 
