MEWAT:   village, 15km off Nuh towards Hodal, is the hometown of  , 55, who died after being lynched three days ago by   along with four other Muslim dairy farmers. Khan and his two sons, and two villagers who had accompanied him, were returning with three cows from a cattle fair organised by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation, when they were attacked on Ramgarh road.

 At  , two houses are in mourning. At Pehlu Khan’s house, his son Irshad narrates the gruesome way in which his father was beaten to death. Pehlu’s mother, who is over 75, roams around calling out for his son, while his wife and four sisters mourn. A line of villagers come to offer their condolences. Their house is situated right in front of the cremation ground, where Pehlu was buried.
 
 “We had municipal corporation permits. We paid tax and an amount to the police for checking the cows,” says Irshaad, 25, who does not remember much of the April 1 incident, after he was thrown to the ground and beaten till he lost consciousness. The next thing he remembers was waking up in hospital, he says.
 
 “Our buffaloes had stopped giving milk, so we decided to get cows, which generally give milk during summers. At the fair, we picked up cows which gave 15-17 litres of milk,” says neighbour Azmat, 23, who was in the same van as Pehlu and is recovering from severe injuries himself. “After the other van with Irshad and Arif (Pehlu’s sons) and Rafik arrived, they pulled us out and were about to set us on fire, when the cops arrived,” says Azmat, recollecting the events of Saturday night.
 
 “This is jaativaad (casteism),” says a village elder who did not wish to be named. “We’ve been living peacefully with other communities for many years now, yet have not witnessed anything like this ever before,” he adds. “If we too are forced to resort to violence, blood will flow all over. But things don’t work like that around here. We want to live peacefully,” he says.
 
 “Hindustan is becoming lawless. If they are serious about stopping slaughter, they should first shut down meat export which takes place from Delhi,” says another village elder.
 
 “The main motive of these people (gau rakshaks) was to extract money from us. They have no concern for cows,” says Azmat. After Pehlu, he suffered the most injuries. His brother Yousuf says they took him to Shahid Hasan Khan Medical College in Nuh, after he returned with Pehlu’s hearse. He says the vigilantes snatched the Rs 35,000 he was carrying, and Rs 40,000 from Irshad, before starting to beat them. The Rs 10,000 in Pehlu’s pocket was found intact by his family in hospital.
 
 “If we were taking these cows for slaughter, why would we not try to hide them, or tie them up?” asks Azmat, showing copies of the receipts, which their relatives had recovered from the fair organisers, after the originals were destroyed by the vigilantes. “I tried to reason with them, tell them these cows were bought for our dairy. Ahead of Ramzan, we need milk for curd which we eat early in the morning before fasting. Milk is our only means of sustenance, as we don’t have big farms of our own,” says Rafik, one of Saturday’s victims. “If we had to get cows for slaughter, would we not bring them at night, or not take the national highway?” he says.
 
 Irshad is now worried about the case filed against him in Behror. “We were beaten up, my father was killed and now there is a case against us. Where is justice in all this?” Azmat, who witnessed Pehlu’s lynching, says at one point, he had got up from the ground, but was thrown back with his face hitting the drain along the footpath.
 
 The Jaisingpur Dairy
 
 At a corner of the village is a dairy with around 10-15 buffaloes and 2-3 cows. The dairy has records of milk bought and sold to a bigger dairy in Faridabad. “This village alone send two quintals of milk every day,” says   Mohammad, who owns the dairy and has kept detailed records of milk sales against Pehlu’s sons and Azmat. He displays a cow shed in the dairy to show the care they take of the cows. “We have fans for them. When there is no power, there is generator backup,” says Umar, showing around the fodder and supplements which are fed to the cows.
 
 But business has gone down in the last few months, they say. “Getting cows has become difficult. The milk which you drink in the cities comes from such dairies. The real cow smugglers are left scot free, while innocent ones like us are made targets,” says Umar, showing a challan he was given by Shahjahanpur police last January, when he was transporting cows from Jaipur.
 
