NAGPUR: There was hardly any buzz about   when the season started last year. All the talk was around  , who bagged 36 wickets in the 2015-16 season. When Aditya was injured,   took the initiative and impressed everyone with his wicket taking abilities in any condition. Yash eventually got selected for the   for the   last December.   Under-19 Parth Rekhade wasn’t too behind as he produced some breath-taking performances throughout the season.

 Quietly, Darshan kept coming up with meaningful performances when his team needed them the most. The national selectors have noticed his performances and the 18-year-old Vidarbha allrounder is now in the U-19 probables for the camp in National Cricket Academy ( ) along with Yash Thakur. The camp will be important with an eye on ICC Under-19 World Cup scheduled to be held in New Zealand in early 2018.
 
 Darshan’s breathtaking 67 (48b, 8x4, 3x6) against Baroda on a square turner during the CK Nayudu Under-23 quarterfinal proved that he has the attitude require to succeed at the top level. The match was scheduled for four days but was completed in two. The knock came when Vidarbha were 180-6 with not much batting behind. Vidarbha had to bat last on that wicket, which meant even 150 could have been match-winning. Darshan’s calculated knock turned things around for Vidarbha, who went on to beat Baroda by an innings and 18 runs inside two days. Darshan’s knock also impressed junior selector Rakesh Parikh who was there to watch the quarterfinal. Later, he was called to bowl during the India-England Under-19 Test matches in Nagpur.
 
 “He is the kind of player we are looking for. He certainly has the skills, attitude and cricketing intelligence we are looking for. He impressed coach Rahul Dravid during the Youth Test in Nagpur and he asked selectors to include Darshan in the camp,” a BCCI source, who doesn’t wish to be named, told TOI.
 
 Darshan started playing at 6, following in the footsteps of his elder brother Gaurav Nalkande, who represented Vidarbha in Under-16 category. “Darshan was always energetic. We worked hard on basics right from the start. To me, he is a genuine allrounder. If he keeps performing and keeps his feet firmly on the ground, sky is the limit for him,” said Darshan’s childhood coach Pravin Mule, who played a crucial role in Darshan’s career.
 
 Five years ago, he was selected for VCA’s residential academy. At VCA academy, his game improved under former Vidarbha and Railways stumper Sudhir Wankhede. “He was fortunate to have a coach like Sudhir. He helped Darshan improve his allround game at the academy,” Mule added.
 
 Darshan first performed well with the ball at Under-16 level. He got an eight-wicket-haul against Chhattisgarh three years ago. This year, though, Darshan announced himself as an allrounder. During Dhriv Pandove Trophy match against Madhya Pradesh at Chandigarh, Darshan showed he can take care of the lower order with a responsible 56. Later on, he scored his maiden hundred in BCCI tournament during Cooch Behar Trophy match against Baroda.
 
 After a breakthrough season, the NCA camp is a good opportunity for Darshan to jump to the next level.
 
 
