KOLKATA: Durga Puja is less than a week away but what has puzzled Kolkatans is the absence of the ubiquitous roadside hoardings and banners that impart a festive feel to the city. Row upon row of bamboo scaffoldings have come up on both sides of major thoroughfares and key roads, but a majority of these are still sporting a bare look. 

 The reason for this unusual scenario is the inability of organisers of most big-budget pujas to mop up more than 30% of the expected revenue from sponsorships and advertisements. This is because corporate hous-es are reluctant to deal with puja committees that do not have   registration. Puja organizers have had to either curtail their budgets or pitch in with funds from personal savings.
 
 "The GST issue has become a major stumbling block. Hardly any puja committee has GST registration that firms are dem-anding. We have told the corporates that they can deduct the GST amount while giving the sponsorship amount but res-ponse is poor," said Partho Ghosh, president of Forum for Durgotsav, an umbrella platform of major Durga Puja organizers in the city.
 
 Of the 250 top clubs that have a puja budget in excess of Rs 20 lakh, only one club — Chetla Agrani — patronised by minister Firhad Hakim has got a provisional GST registration. The rest continue to debate on why GST should be applicable when they aren’t doing a busin-ess. But some have realised there is no way out if they wish to continue organising pujas with grandeur that entail big budgets. GST officials have confirmed that clubs that rent out space for advertisement and have budgets in excess of Rs 20 lakh will have to register for GST.
 
 "We are a major club with multiple activities. Our Durga Puja is a crowd-puller. Given the high stakes involved, we cannot afford uncertainties, and hence, applied for GST," said Chetla Agrani club secretary Sabyasachi Roychowdhury.
 
 The organisers of Salimpur Palli, a puja that has made a name for itself, haven’t applied for GST this year but given the problems they are encountering in raising funds, they have made up their mind to register well before the next edition of the festival. While they were refusing sponsorships around this time last year, they have only managed to mop up 30% of the required amount this year.
 
 "We cannot operate like this in future. Since GST offers an opportunity to claim input benefit, companies want to do so. It is their legitimate right that we cannot deny. But we cannot be tied down with submission of returns all year round," said club secretary Ronnie Roychowdhury.
 
 GST expert Sanjiv Kothari clarified that Puja organisers needed to take GST registration as a casual dealer that required one-time return. "There is no GST on Durga Puja or on clay items required for it. But space selling that happens in pandals draws 18% GST. All pujas that have a revenue collection in excess of Rs 20 lakh need to get registered as companies that buy space for hoarding, gates or stalls can claim input benefit on the GST they pay," he explained.
 
 Kajal Sarkar of Bosepukur Sitala Mandir, the puja on Kasba connector that shot to fame in 2001 when it used bhanr or clay pots to decorate the pandal, believes organising a puja is a social activity and should not be brought under the ambit of GST. But he does concede there is an element of business in the participation of corporates. "There seems no option but to comply with GST regulations from next year," he said.
 
 Ekdalia Evergreen, an all-time favourite due to its resplendent lighting, is also facing the crunch. Despite its killer location near Gariahat intersection where companies vie to advertise, the puja patronised by minister Subrata Mukherjee is struggling with sponsorships this year. "Unless it is sorted out, several Pujas will peter out," said club official Goutam Mukherjee.
 
 Some though are still resisting the new reality. Officials at Suruchi Sangha, patronized by minister Aroop Biswas, are adamant they will not toe the GST line. "We are an end-user and have no products to trade. Why should we be in the ambit of GST? We have no plans to register. We file a return related to income-tax," argued club general secretary Kingshuk Maitra.
 
