LUCKNOW: The   surgery unit of the orthopedic department of   ( ) will be transformed into a centre of excellence, providing improved surgical education, spine research and advance patient care as per international standards. All of this would be possible after its affiliation with the   (IASA). Celebrating its 65th Foundation Day and 9th Prof AN Srivastava annual oration on Thursday, the orthopedics department conducted a two-day CME and live   demonstration on “Current trends in spinal surgery” as a prelude to the celebrations, making way for advanced surgeries. 

 The department will give patients an affordable option to get deformity correction surgery done at KGMU for lateral and sideways curvature of the spinal cord, especially in youth. Experts say at least ten patients suffering from the deformity visit KGMU every week for expert intervention. 
 
 “IASA will also extend support for a travelling spine fellowship to young orthopaedic faculty of the department interested in pursuing their career in spinal surgery. A detailed project report is being prepared,” said Prof GK Singh, head of the orthopedic department. “In their new ‘Academic Mentorship’ program, a surgeon from our spinal surgery unit would pair with a more experienced surgeon abroad so that the next generation of academic spine surgeons in India can be groomed,” added Prof RN Srivastava, heading the affiliation. 
 
 Giving the annual Prof AN Srivastava oration, Prof Dilip K Sengupta, director at Centre for Scoliosis and advanced Spine Surgery, USA, talked about ‘Back pain in adults and the elderly’. “Threshold of pain in the Indian patients is way higher than western patients but the problem of wearing away of the spine discs is the same. While exercise could prevent the condition, nicotine taken in any form can be one of the causal factors that people do not realise,” he said. 
 
 Meritorious residents, nursing staff and employees were also rewarded on the day with the vice chancellor Prof Ravi Kant announcing a special Rs 11,000 award for Dr Dharmendra for ‘exceptional operating skills’ in the department.
 
 
