IMPHAL: Union HRD minister and BJP’s in-charge for  ,   has begun hectic meetings in Imphal to finalise the party tickets for the ensuing 60-member state assembly polls slated for March 4 and 8.

 Taking a cue from Assam, the saffron party is targeting to overthrow the 15-year regime of the Congress, even as Javadekar sought resignation of chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh for his failure to remove the ongoing United Naga Council (UNC)-sponsored economic blockade on National Highways.
 
 Javadekar, who arrived here on Sunday, headed a core committee meeting of the party to discuss the modalities of issuing tickets and the list of probable candidates.
 
 A central core committee meeting of the party would also be held to finalise the matter on Tuesday, said Javadekar at a media conference at the party’s Imphal office.
 
 On UNC’s economic blockade on the National Highways in ‘Naga area’ of the state that entered its 75th day on Sunday, Javadekar blamed Ibobi Singh government for its failure to end it.
 
 He said that the centre has extended all possible efforts to remove the blockade by sending its leaders as well as the required forces.
 
 The centre had even arranged for a tripartite talk between the centre, state and the UNC but no representatives were sent by the state for the dialogue, Javadekar lamented.
 
 Ibobi government should take the responsibly for prolonging the economic blockade which has taken its toll to the people, Javadekar said and added that the centre cannot intervene into the law and order of the state.
 
 If the state government fails to bring to an end the blockade, the chief mistier should resign, the   leader demanded.
 
 “Constitution says law and order is state subject and therefore the centre cannot do on its own where there is an elected government,” Javadekar said and questioned “Why the people should wait and suffer more days?”
 
 If the state government cannot use the central security forces and remove the blockade the CM should resign and “there is no ban in code of conduct for resignation”, he said and added “This is destruction of a state by the CM and the ruling party.”
 
 On the other hand, there is likelihood of holding the tripartite talk very soon as the state government has written to the centre giving its wiliness to join the dialogue, a source said.
 
 Meanwhile, the NPP has announced to field 37 candidates including 25 from the valley districts.
 
 Party leader James Sangma, who is also an MLA of Meghalaya, at a press conference here on Saturday, announced the setting up the party’s state election management committee and manifesto drafting committee.
 
 
