
 , 
 
 
 .

 
 
 
 There are two main reasons for this. Nowadays, animals often venture into forest fringes as land next to forest borders is used for cultivation. Animals raid the crops there, leading to conflicts with humans. Secondly, natural corridors of elephants are being lost to farming.
 
 
 
 
 Both the species have shown slight increase in population, thanks to better protection in terms of potential epidemic control and better habitat management.
 
 
 
 
 A. No. The forest area remains the same in the district.
 
 
 
 
 A. Easy availability of palatable crops on the forest fringes, slight changes in the behaviour of wild animals which raid crops when fodder is available in the forests and the construction of tanks on the forest fringes to irrigate agriculture and horticulture crops.
 
 
 
 The Act will have less impact in the Nilgiris as the forest cover is very meager. 
 
 
 
 
 There are no forest dwellers in the Nilgiris district as per the definition under FRA (inhabiting forest area for 3 generations or 75 years). The tribes live generally in harmony with forests. Some tribes in the upper Nilgiris are staking claims to forest land for cultivation where none was practiced earlier.
 
 
 
 
 There is nothing alarming about the increase in wild animals deaths. Most are natural deaths or accident deaths not involving humans. Such deaths are acceptable in a healthy ecosystem if they are within 5%-10% of the population of the species. There is no unnatural increase in the deaths of the animals in the district. The growing population is of a concern, if it exceeds 5%-10% of the existing numbers. A cursory examination of any herd of a species should have all ages. 
 
 
 
 
 Some changes in the land use policy, particularly on the forest fringes, is needed to discourage palatable species being grown too close to the forest areas enticing the wild animals to venture into human habitats. Creating public awareness on animal behavior would go a long way in minimising the possibilities of chance encounters with animals which might cause harm to humans. Constructing some animal barriers may be resorted to in some vulnerable areas. Keeping the animal corridors and habitat intact might be useful in some areas. In extreme cases, limited culling of select species such as wild pig might help.
 
