MUMBAI: A week ago,   composer  , one half of the Sajid-Wajid duo, presented himself before the railway mobile court in Andheri metropolitan magistrate court premises for alleged   driving and   without a   in Versova in January. The court granted Khan a cash bail of Rs 2,000. 

 “The breathalyzer report showed the alcohol level was 85.1mg/100ml, over the permissible limit of 30mg/100ml,” said a traffic police officer.
 
 In his defence, Khan had told cops that he had consumed brandy with hot water for sore throat. His driver was on leave so he had decided to drive himself to a studio to record a song. Khan told TOI: “I was not keeping well due to a throat problem. Someone told me to have a little brandy with hot water, which I did. I did not think the medicine would land me in trouble. I told cops about the brandy but they asked me to undergo a breathalyzer test. I cooperated with the police and even surrendered my driving licence after returning to the police station around 4am. I have not collected it so far. I don’t drink.”
 
 Khan was caught near D N Nagar traffic police chowky in Andheri West. When asked to submit his licence, he said he was not carrying it at that time. The hearing came up last Thursday based on a traffic police report submitted on January 13—within 24 hours of the episode. Khan was present before railway mobile court magistrate Amitabh Panchbhai on March 9. 
 
 Sajid was returning home around 11.59pm on January 12 when his car was stopped and traffic cops asked him to take a blow test on a breathalyzer. As the alcohol content shown was over the permissible limit, cops from D N Nagar traffic police chowky took Khan to Versova police station at midnight and got him booked under the Local Act Case (LAC). He was allowed to leave that night on paying a Rs 2,500 fine and asked to be present before court. The police also made Khan sign a personal bond with a guarantor. 
 
 Sajid and Wajid, sons of tabla player Ustad Sharafat Khan, have composed hit scores in films such as Ek Tha Tiger, Dabangg, Veer, Mujse Shaadi Karogi, Pyar Kiya To Darna Kya—all Salman Khan starrers.
 
 
