BHOPAL: The city’s most   may be down, but not out. Certainly not out of Bhopalis’ memories when it comes to giving  . “Bhoot Bangla se dus kadam (a short walk from the  ),” will still be heard. Along with the laughter of children playing in the rubble.

 “Have I lost my name after the death of my father? No. So it is with   for us. Doesn’t matter if the haunted house is razed, it continues to be our address as long as we live here,” said Asim Khan, a local resident staring at the plume of dust as the iron claws of a JCB brought the remaining structure down in Lalghati on Wednesday.
 
 The 2-acre land on which the home of many a legend stood is now a barren plot, pockmarked by debris from the building that stood witness to no less than six murders. 
 
 Asim Khan, a local, said: “Our address will always be ‘near Bhoot Bangla’, as this was a historic building. We have been living here for 20 years. Bhoot Bangla is the only identity for our area and it will be so even after demolition,” he said.
 
 The BMC demolition, which began around noon on Tuesday, was stopped abruptly at 5pm. Civic workers packed up and left. The sun was low on the horizon. Perhaps, no one wanted to stay there after dark. The wrecking renewed in clear daylight on Wednesday. Five JCB and a pokland machine took around five hours to level it to the ground. 
 
 There was a bigger crowd to watch the final hammer on the ‘ghostly’ address. Many of them were children, who were so far terrified of going anywhere near the eerie compound — their parents had fed them enough bedtime stories of the ghosts and demons of Bhoot Bangla. 
 
 On Wednesday, children were playing on the rubble. Reduced to bits of bricks and stone, the building wasn’t scary any more. Some cheered when a large portion would come crashing down. Aslam Khan, a class 4 student who stays in a multi-storied building near Bhoot Bangla, said: “It’s a holiday, and I could not resist coming here. I have been hearing about evil spirits in Bhoot Bangla for years. I came for a close look. Where are the ghosts?” 
 
 Another child, Asim Khan, said he had always “dreamt of stepping into Bhoot Bangla”. “We are done with our homework and gathered to see the building being demolished. It has paved a ground for us to play,” he laughed.
 
 The children kept the cops on their toes. Policemen were seen running after the children, waving the baton in the air, to stop them from going near Bhoot Bangla. They were worried that debris from the demolition might ricochet off and hit someone. A sub-inspector of Koh-e-Fiza thana said, “It’s tough to stop the kids from going near the structure.” 
 
 Saraswati Dongri, who lives in a nearby slum, said: “It is good that the building is being demolished as it had made it difficult for us to venture out after sunset” Asked if she was scared of the ‘ghosts’, she waved a hand dismissively, and said, “We were always in fear of criminals hiding there. There was not a single day when we did not talk about some soul lurking there.”
 
 Pointing at the women watching the wreckers at work, Meghna Kiyawat said: “We have completed our household course and gathered here. This haunted building had kept us scared for nights together. We want to see it levelled.” 
 
 More than the so-called ghosts, locals were worried about the addicts and criminals hanging around the dilapidated structure, they said.
 
