BENGALURU: On the first day of her job as a gravedigger,   ran away screaming. But she returned for the sake of her four young daughters. Today, after 13 years and 5,000 bodies, Channamma has made peace with life and what it has to offer. 

 A gravedigger-cum-body-burial worker at the   in Srirampura, she is a rare woman in this profession of last rites. When her hands are not full, the 43-year-old is as cool as a cucumber, lazing on the cement benches amid the tombstones inside the boneyard.
 
 A delightful character, Channamma can converse in five languages, including English, Kannada and Hindi. While she’s pleasantly surprised to know that there’s something called International Women’s Day, she says her moment of celebration will come when she sees her fourth daughter married and settled. For, she stepped into this territory only to support her family.
 
 Married in 1987 to Ganesh, a gravedigger at the Srirampura burial ground, Channamma left her hometown in Kolar to come to Bengaluru. “We stayed at Saibaba Nagar in Srirampura, a few streets away from the burial ground. That time, I wouldn’t dare peep into the cemetery as I was petrified,” chuckles Channamma, recalling her early years of marriage.
 
 Ganesh’s sudden death in 2000 came as a big blow for the mother of four who stared at a bleak future. “After trying some odd jobs which weren’t enough to feed my girls, I decided to take up my husband’s job. I approached the BBMP authorities who were initially sceptical to assign a gravedigger’s job to a woman. But I went with my four little kids and pleaded with them,” she says.
 
 Finally, on December 12, 2003, the then BBMP commissioner personally gave the letter of appointment to Channamma. She was appointed the gravedigger at Srirampura boneyard for a monthly salary of Rs. 1000. The very next day she reported to work and ever since her life changed. “I still remember that day. Some policemen brought the body of a man who had died in a gruesome road accident,” she says, looking back at that unforgettable moment. “Channamma had to lift the corpse and lower it into the ground with me. But she stood shocked and soon ran out of the place screaming,” says M Prakash, Channamma’s co-worker at the ground. “The ordeal continued for a few days with more bodies coming in. I had no option but to work. I couldn’t eat or sleep for weeks,” she says. 
 
 While 13 years have passed digging 6x3ft graves, lowering bodies and burying them, Channamma doesn’t want to give up. Even on Monday, she buried two men. And as she bid adieu, you could see her receive her next booking of an elderly man who passed away following a cardiac arrest.
 
 SERVICE MORE THAN A PROFESSION
 
 I have seen many deaths, including that of women and children. Despite my family members coaxing me to give up, I’m happy to go on and lay the dead to rest with my own hands. Now I feel it’s more like a service than a profession
 
 Channamma | gravedigger at Hanumanthapura Hindu Burial Ground, Srirampura
 
