CHANDIGARH: Clouds scud through the steel grey sky as a bone chilling wind sweeps the empty park.
A group of children -aged between two and 15, clench their teeth, ball their fists and jam them into tattered trouser pockets or inside frayed dupattas. Every cold draft makes the thin frames shiver, but they look intently at the people teaching them ­ a group of around five, who come to this park every day, seven days a week to teach.
 
 These are classes started by advocate Tarsem Singh, who retired as deputy district attorney, to “rescue himself,“ as he puts it. “A bad accident severely restricted my mobility and left me depressed. For a time, I would not even go out. Then I started walking slowly. A little girl,  , used to study in the area. One day, she walked up to me and asked if I could help her with her studies. I said yes and from then, started teaching her every day. I have to say she was an angel who dispelled the darkness that had enveloped my mind since the accident. Slowly, other children started coming to me and my friend, Sant   joined me.He is no more now. But the small group of two or three has swollen to around 150,“ he said.
 
 When the students were ready, teachers appeared. A man who runs a business nearby and who did not wish to be named, used to greet the elderly advocate with the snowy beard sitting amidst the spir ited bunch. With time, he started coming to the park to teach the chil dren -bringing his en tire family, even his 10-year-old daughter, a student of Yadavindra Public School ­ who taught the children whatever she learned in class that day.
 
 Around that time,  , an in terior designer from Sector 68, was dis traught at her son's im minent departure to Hyderabad to study law. While leaving, he asked her to find and help under privileged children get an education.
 
 Chancing upon Tar sem Singh and the others, Manu became one of the teachers. “My son wanted me to reach out to those who needed help and my husband wanted me to do anything that would satisfy my heart and soul. I have a business that demands considerable travel and there are domestic responsibilities. But he asked me to go, saying he would fill in for me. I haven't looked back since,“ she said.
 
 Suman Chawla, a government employee who took  , faced a similar situation at home. After her daughter left the city to work, she volunteered for an NGO working in the field of women's welfare.
 
 “But what I craved was innocence, strength and lightness of being. So when I saw these children, I joined them. They are family now. I do not miss a single day and make swure they study well. The internet has been a great help since I download the PSEB syllabus from the net,“ she said.
 
 Jagminder Kaur, a homemaker from the area and one of the group members, says they teach children lessons from textbooks and learn from them lessons of life. “It feels strange when people ask me why I am so particular about these classes and what I get from these children. But now that I know them and am familiar with the struggles they face, I am hum bled. We are the ones deriving strength from them,“ she smiled.
 
 Avtar Singh Saini, a retired   employee, agrees. He stumbled on the group while watering saplings a few MC officers planted in the park and promptly forgot about. Now, he is one of the teachers. “When I come the children rush to me and vie with each other for a hug. The unconditional love they give is sublime,“ he said.The teachers, who download PSEB syllabus from the internet for classes, had to make children learn the basics.
