JAISALMER: The Lifeline Express that is said to be world's first hospital-train that was started with an aim to provide medical aid and relief to far-flung and inaccessible areas, reached   for the first time since its launch on Thursday. A large number of people reached here in order to receive treatment for their diseases. The train is proving to be a boon for the people of Barmer. The train till now has covered 184 remote areas of 20 states in the country.

 The train has 10 bogies and renowned experts from the country provide treatment to the patients and also conduct surgeries. The health services at the Lifeline Express here were inaugurated by principal secretary health  . On this occasion Barmer District collector Shiv Prasad  , joint director Sanjeev Jain, assistant director Ravi Mathur, Impact India Foundation deputy manager  , Lifeline Impact deputy project director Dr Yagnik Vaja and other officers were also present.
 
 The excitement among people is great as a huge number are visiting the express which will be stationed here for 20 days. Barmer district collector Shiv Prasad Nakate said that the efforts of the Lifeline Express are unique. He added that it is proving to be a boon for the residents of Barmer. For the first time, Lifeline Express has come to Rajasthan and will remain here for 20 days. The train has 5 operation tables, OPD ward etc in which patients will be operated upon. The operated patients will be shifted to government hospital later.
 
 He said at the Lifeline Express treatment of heart, ear, nose throat, polio, eye and other diseases will be given and even surgeries will be done if required. Experts from AIIMS Delhi, Tata Memorial Hospital Mumbai, Hinduja Hospital Mumbai, SMS Hospital Jaipur have come here to treat and operate upon patients. Also operations for family planning are done here. Till now the train has covered 184 places in 20 states and has provided relief to scores of common people.
 
 Nakate said that with the approval of medical college at Barmer, in future all facilities will be available at the local level.
 
  chairman,  , said that till now eyes of 602 patient have been checked out of which 32 patients were found eligible for operate of cataract. So far, 25 patients have been operated upon for cataract. Here 290 patients were given glasses.
 
 Mehta said that patients are coming here with problems related to gynaecology including breast and cervical cancer, main cancer check-up and for operation, epilepsy, dental issues, eye-related problems, polio and other diseases. 
 
