LUCKNOW: Mostly the sitting MLAs, 30, barring   representative Ravindra Kumar Bhadana have made it to the first list of 149 candidates declared by the BJP as party candidates for UP assembly poll 2017. Bhadana has been replaced with Somendra Tomar, a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha member from Meerut South. 

 BJP has put on hold announcement of ticket for Noida, the constituency represented by Bimla Batham, who won the election in the by-poll after Dr Mahesh Sharma was elected Lok Sabha member and later inducted into Modi cabinet as minister. 
 
 Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj Singh’s fate has not been decided either. Pankaj, a general secretary for the third time in UP BJP, is believed to be willing to contest assembly poll either from Noida or his native place Chandauli. There were speculations of him trying his luck from Ghaziabad, the district from where Rajnath was Lok Sabha member before shifting to Lucknow in 2014. 
 
 Barring Sandeep Singh, grandson of Rajasthan governor  , who got BJP ticket to contest for Atrauli, no kin of prominent and established leaders in the BJP have made it to the first list declared in New Delhi on Monday. With Noida's candidature put on hold and tickets for the rest of 254 seats likely to be discussed at the central election committee meeting on Tuesday, speculations are rife that a Pankaj’s name, most likely from Noida, could also be announced.
 
 Coming to Meerut, while Bhadana had been replaced with Somendra Tomar, sources said mainly because of his under-performance, the fate of Meerut Cantt sitting MLA Satya Prakash Agrawal too hangs in balance. 
 
 Similarly, fate of sitting MLAs from Lucknow and Kashi region would also be decided at the CEC meeting on Tuesday. The BJP has only one MLA from Lucknow, Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopalji’ from Lucknow (east) constituency while three MLAs from Varanasi including Shyam Deo Roy Chaudhary from Varanasi (South), Ravindra Jaiswal from Varanasi (North) and Jyotsana Srivastava from Varanasi Cantonment.
 
 Earlier, there were speculations that at least 10 sitting MLAs will not get the ticket. Some did not have age on their side, while others were under-performers. With many MLAs aged over 70 being repeated, sources said the BJP had preferred to go with winnability formula of picking tried and tested candidates. 
 
 The fate of the remaining sitting MLAs is likely to be decided at the CEC meeting on Tuesday. 
 
 
