HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre,   asking them to furnish to the court the current status of the proposal to construct a state secretariat at Bison Polo and Gymkhana Grounds in Secunderabad along with their stand on the contentions raised in a public interest petition (PIL) filed challenging the reported moves. The bench of acting Chief Justice   and   posed a series of questions to the counsel, representing the state and the Centre while hearing the PIL filed by four concerned citizens, former DGP M V Bhaskar Rao, former cricketer Vivek Jaisimha, war veteran Anil Bhalla and chartered accountant Turlapati Bharadwaj, who said that the two grounds belong to the Centre and people with a lot of cultural and historical importance and, hence should be preserved and no constructions should be permitted on the land.

 Telangana advocate general D Prakash Reddy told the bench that it's a fact that the government sought the land belonging to the two grounds, but the Centre did not transfer the land to the state so far. Speaking for the Centre, assistant   told the court that he would ascertain from the NDA government the facts of the case.
 
 Putting forward the case of the petitioners, their counsel Sunil Bhaskar Ganu told the court that the two grounds belong to the Army and are being used for various sports and cultural activities. They have been serving the people of the twin cities as an important lung space.In fact, these grounds are under the direct control of the President of India and a committee constituted by him has been administering them. In 1996, the committee allowed sports activities to be held there. Later, it was brought under the administrative control of Secunderabad Cantonment Board and construction activity has never been allowed there. According to the petitioners' counsel, when the Bison Polo Ground in Allahabad was sought to be tinkered with by the authorities there, the Allahabad High Court struck down their actions and held that the ground should be retained as the lung space for the people. “They (state) say that nothing has been done, but the defence ministry has already conveyed its consent and the state has entrusted the matter to an architect who has prepared a blueprint of the new secretariat,“ Sunil said and added that Telangana is making arrangements to lay the foundation stone this Dasara.
 
 “Every open space is a lung space and there is a need to protect them. I am personally for such preservation.But the question is if the governments decide to use them for other purposes or even to convert their status from an open space to a constructed space, where do the courts come in?“ the CJ asked. Which law prevents a state or the Centre from such actions? Sunil replied, “if we permit the state to convert these spaces into concrete jungle, then the rights of the people would be affected.“
 
 The CJ also said: “As a matter of fact, the users of cars are polluting the environment. If we want to be principled, then every one should come to court by cycle“. He then sought counters from the Centre and state and posted the case to next week for further hearing.
 
