CHARMINAR: To counter allegations levelled by legislators that they were harassing poor   by imposing hefty penalties and even sending them to jail, Hyderabad traffic police have prepared a detailed report about the recent enforcement against businessmen encroaching busy streets to present it to the elected representatives. According to police, the offenders sent to jail were shop-owners who had encroached upon roads and no pushc-art vendor was sent to jail. 

 During the ongoing Assembly session, the MIM legislators raised the topic of police harassing the poor street vendors in the city in the name of enforcement and chief minister   assured the MLAs that no poor push-cart vendors would be harassed in future. On Tuesday, Hyderabad police commissionerate officials along with home minister N Narasimha Reddy, gathered at the Assembly hall to explain to the legislators about the enforcement practices adopted by them against the businessmen encroaching streets.
 
 Traffic police started the crackdown against shop-keepers encroaching upon the road after receiving instructions from the High Court to do so in response to a PIL filed by one Laxminivas Agarwal in 2014. 
 
 Police initially were booking cases against the shop-keepers under section 39 (b) of the   Police Act. "Under the Hyderabad Police Act, the violators had to pay only 200 as fine. The small penalty did not work as a deterrent and the businessmen began violating the rules blatantly," DCP (traffic-II) AV Ranganath said. 
 
 Cops later analysed the data of the businessmen resorting to footpath and road encroachment and realised that over 100 businessmen were repeat offenders.
 
 From January 30, Hyderabad traffic police began booking the shopkeepers who encroach roads to conduct business under section 402 of the GHMC Act. Under the GHMC Act, the offenders might get jail term up to one month or have to pay up to 5000 fine or both. 
 
 With police filing charge-sheets against 227 offenders between January 30 and February 28, 107 offenders were made to pay about 2,500 fine and 120 repeat offenders were sent to jail. 
 
