CHANDIGARH: Awaiting sanction for two decades,   archaeological museum is soon going to see light of the day. The museum would house two   belonging right from   dating back to 7,000 BC.

 The biggest museum of the state would come up on two acres in Sector 5 of Panchkula at a cost of around Rs 70 crore. The main building would spread over 50,000 square feet.
 
 “The chief minister has cleared the file and very shortly we are going to lay the foundation stone at the site. The project will take around two years to complete,” said Sumita Misra, principal secretary of the department of archaeology and museums. She added to make it state -of-the-art and interactive museum, reputed curators and experts in the field are being engaged.
 
 To ensure that the building speaks for itself, seals related to Harappan civilization found during the excavation at Rakhigarhi in Hisar district and Kunal in Fatehabad district in Haryana would be used as thematic decor on external facade.
 
 The building would also have sculptured terrace gardens. Apart from models and exhibits, the visitors would also find a movie theatre inside the museum. A special section on archives and valuable documents ranging from Mughal period to current day in Haryana has also been planned. Murals on the building walls would highlight archaeological features and cultural heritage of Haryana ranging from ancient Harappan civilization.
 
 Misra, who was earlier instrumental in completion of the energy efficient Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HAREDA) building at Panchkula, is now ensuring that the state museum should also be a ‘green’ structure with solar panels on the rooftop.
 
 Two lakh artifacts to be shifted to the new museum on its completion are now being stored in four other museums across the state and some in stores of the department of archaeology and museum. It is for the first time that the department has started the work of cataloging so that artifacts are ready for final curation.
 
 Specially designed storage rooms with the facility of controlling temperature, humidity and light would be part of the building so that artifacts and exhibits do not decay due to exposure to environment. Efforts are being made to also make the museum attractive for the younger generation by putting interactive exhibits.
 
 The building would also   of the state archaeological department as well as the archives department.
 
