Who doesn’t like a quirky t-shirt with some cheeky messaging on it? Our Bollywood celebs can’t seem to get enough of funk in their wardrobe. Here’s a few times when stars like 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
  and 
  spoke their mind through their T-shirts, flaunting the headiest style trend of the season.

  
  
 
 1.   has this message at the airport on Women’s Day
 
  
  
 Anushka has never been the one to shy away from taking a stand on issues that demand attention. At the airport on Women’s Day, she asked us all to be feminists.
 
 
 2.   thinks Gogo needs to be released
 
  
  
 Aamir Khan wore this t-shirt petitioning for the release of Gogo from his cult film ‘Andaz Apna Apna’ and we couldn’t help letting out a chuckle.
 
 
 3.   has her ABCs right 
 
  
  
 At a recent event, Alia wore this simple message and made her views on feminism clear. In Alia’s vocabulary, the letter F stands for, feminism. How cool is this feminist-forward message!
 
 
 4.   knows how to make a bold statement
 
  
  
 With her perfect ten body, Jacqueline Fernandez sure knows how to put her money where her mouth is. 
 
 
 5.   wants to turn up the Sanskari Quotient
 
  
  
 Following the controversies surrounding his comic roast show with Ranveer Singh, Arjun was hounded by the moral police for the offensive jokes that were made on the stage. With a grin on his face, Arjun made a light statement.
 
 
 6.   is too cool for everything
 
  
  
 Kangana’s airport looks have many admirers, even within the film industry, as Alia Bhatt confirmed on Karan Johar’s chat show and we can understand why.
 
 
 7.   is obsessed with himself
 
  
  
 Who doesn’t like to Google their own name once in a while? Ayushmann certainly can’t resist doing so.
 
 
 8. Nargis Fakhri has the most important message of the day
 
 
  
  
 In a world inflicted by hate and war, Nargis wants us to spread chocolate and not hate.
 
 
 9. The best part about the week is the weekend 
 
  
  
 Alia Bhatt can’t contain her joy in this picture with Shah Rukh Khan. Or is it because the weekend’s closer? We will never know.
 
 
