In India, a child considered to be “healthy” is likely to be obese. Our obsession with over-feeding a child from the time he or she is born has resulted in a rise in   in the country, affecting over 15% of the child population. While rotund babies may look cute and invite much cheek-pulling, obesity in children has long-reaching consequences, the foremost of which is an increased   and diabetes in adulthood. However, all is not lost, as researchers have found that exercise in childhood could potentially reduce the risks of heart disease and diabetes resulting from childhood obesity.
 
  The 20-year long study included 1,792 children between the ages of 7 and 15 years. Fitness of the children was assessed though a run for 1.6 kilometers, and their abdominal fat (or the amount of fat around the waist) was measured as an indicator of childhood obesity. Other clinical tests were taken when the participants attained adulthood, and included waist measurement, blood pressure, fasting blood glucose and lipids (cholesterols and triglycerides). The results were encouraging, as   who were physically active in childhood through aerobic exercise were likely to have a lower risk of heart disease. On the other hand, high levels of childhood abdominal fat and low childhood fitness increased the chances of developing heart disease and diabetes in adulthood by 8.5 times. Participants who took up aerobic physical activity in adulthood were able to significantly reverse the risk of heart disease and diabetes that resulted from childhood inactivity and greater abdominal fat, when compared to physically inactive adults who did not get much exercise during childhood.
  
  Maybe instead of a video game, gift your kid a football so he or she can have unparalleled fun outdoors, and at the same time get some exercise as well!
  
  
  Schmidt MD, Magnussen CG, Rees E, et al., Int J Obes (Lond). 2016 Jul;40(7):1134-40.
  
  
 
  Dr. S. S. Binu, MD, DNB, DM, Consultant Cardiologist, Sree Gokulam Medical College, Trivandrum, Kerala
  
 : binuss@gmail.com
  
  
