PATNA: The BJP on Tuesday claimed that   government has contributed around Rs 60 crore for the ongoing Prakashotava celebrations in Patna, refuting claims by the JD (U) that   government has solely borne all expenses for the grand event.

 Senior BJP functionary   on Tuesday produced documents in support of the claim that funds to the tune of Rs 20 crore have been sanctioned by ministry of tourism and Rs 41 crore by ministry of railways for developments in and around Patna City for   celebrations.
 
 “Funds to the tune of Rs 20.76 crore have already been released by the central government in two instalments under Prasad scheme for development of   starting from January last year. The next instalment of Rs 20 crore is also scheduled to be released upon submission of utilisation certificate for the funds released in previous instalments,” said Modi on the sidelines of his weekly Janta Darbar at Patna.
 
 Elaborating on the funds sanctioned under Prasad scheme, Modi said, “Rs 3 crore had been released for illumination at Patna Sahib, Rs 19 crore for civic amenities, including signages, approach roads to gurdwaras, streetlights, Rs 12 crore for development of tourist facilities at Kangan Ghat and Rs 4 crore for development of Guru Ka Bagh.”
 
 The former deputy CM added, “We do not want to do politics on this auspicious occasion of Prakashotsava, but we also want to defend ourselves from the allegation by the JD (U) that the central government has not contributed anything for the grand event. We are only saying that both central and state governments have contributed to make this event a grand success.”
 
 SushilMo takes dig at Lalu
 
 Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday took a dig at RJD chief Lalu Prasad, saying that he must be scared of a coup by his two sons to dethrone him on the lines of father- son battle in Mulayam Singh’s clan. “Lalu burnt his hands by trying to mediate between Mulayam Singh and Akhilesh Yadav in the battle over the leadership of Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh. Now that all his efforts have turned futile and father-son tussle in SP has gone from bad to worse, Lalu must be tizzy that his two sons may do the same,” Modi said.
 
 
