NAGPUR: A noted veteran in the field of Hindi and Marathi theatre in the city, Ramesh Ambhaikar turned 75 on July 16. The theatre director, who was once in-charge of   Academy and has helmed several award-winning plays, was felicitated in a special function held at Sai Sabhagruha, Shankar Nagar, on Sunday morning. All those who were associated with Ambhaikar at some point in his theatrical journey, fans and admirers attended the function to partake in the celebrations. Ambhaikar staged his new play ‘Oye.. le’ on July 15 at the same venue.

 Retired judge of the Supreme Court, VS Sirpurkar, was the chief guest of the event. Novelist Asha Bage and president of   (IMA) Dr YS Deshpande also attended the event. “Theatre is Ambhaikar’s organ and breath,” began littérateur Prakash Edlabadkar, who began the event and compèred the programme.
 
 Malhar Ambhaikar, Ramesh’s son, then sang ‘Naandi’, a song that is played before every play in obeisance to Lord Natraja. He was accompanied by a percussionist and harmonium player. Edlabadkar recalled some prized moments from Ambhaikar’s theatre journey, including how littérateur CT Khanolkar and Poet Grace attended the production. Prabhakar Ambone, Ambhaikar’s protagonist in most plays and a close associate, shared that all of Ambhaikar’s plays were unique and a product of hard work. “At one time, every artiste wanted to work with him and Ranjan Kala,” he said.
 
 Artiste   said that Ambhaikar’s plays were a reflection of the society, which attempt to establish ideals through the plots. Deshpande recalled how Ambhaikar himself had to play the protagonist in his play ‘Chetna Chintamaniche Gaav’ as the lead actor had to withdraw. “He is an example of how ideals are not taught, but they are absorbed,” he added. Bage pointed the freshness in all of Ambhaikar’s plays and the perspective he brought to new and old concepts.
 
 Sirpurkar said that Ranjan Kala Academy was not only nurtured by Ambhaikar, but was also expanded under him. Receiving the award, Ambhaikar said, “More than what I have given to theatre, theatre has given me a provision to live. All the new plays that I choose to direct pose questions to me, till today. I initially did plays under the banner of   and only death can distance me from theatre now.”
 
 Trustee of NGO Vanrai, Dr Girish Gandhi, called Ambhaikar a determined and sincere person. The event was organized by Ramesh Ambhaikar Amrut Mahotsav Satkar Samiti along with Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan and Vidarbha Gaurav Pratishthan.
 
 
