PUNE: The lone foot overbridge (FoB) spanning the Pune railway station’s exits at two ends and the staircases with narrow steps leading to it from the platforms are clearly inadequate to cater to nearly two lakh passengers who use the premises every day.

 Regular passengers, railway activists and insiders said the Mumbai stampede is a warning bell for the authorities here to make available the required infrastructure in Pune. 
 
 They fear a similar tragedy is waiting to happen at the station if the railway authorities don’t pay heed to improving the existing facilities. A senior official from the engineering department of Pune railway station on Friday expressed worries about the daily volume of passengers using the old foot overbridge at the station, but said there is "no life-threatening structural issue with the bridge" despite it being over a hundred years old.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the official said, "We conduct an inspection of the bridge before and after the monsoon every year. There is no issue with its structure. But the constant increasing volume of passengers every year is worrisome." 
 
 Railway authorities have already started construction of a new FoB parallel to the old one but its work has been stalled due to non-availability of funds.
 
 A senior official of the railway, who did not wish to reveal his identity, told TOI, "The estimated cost of the new parallel FoB is Rs 12 crore. The government had sanctioned Rs 4 crore, so far. The remaining funds will be made available only after the next financial year." 
 
 As per the plans, the width of the new FoB is 12m, which is double that of the existing one. It means the new bridge will augument the space for passengers adequately, the official said.
 
 As of now, passengers prefer to wait on the foot overbridge with their luggage to avoid the last minute running around and add to the crowd. Senior citizens and children and the worst hit when crowd surges.
 
 In fact, the crowd’s volume is scary on the FoB during evening hours when passengers rush in with luggage.
 
 The senior railway official they were worried about passengers standing near the railings of the overbridge and the ramp waiting for announcers to confirm the arrival of trains on the platforms and blocking the maximum space on the passageway thus creating difficulties for fellow passengers. 
 
 However, railway passengers will have to face these ordeals for the next few months as the railway authorities do not have adequate funds to complete the infrastructure which would have facilitated smooth journey at the station, a senior railway official told TOI on Friday.
 
 Member of Parliament from Pune Anil Shirole has written to Central Railway’s general manager   on Friday demanding that against the backdrop of the   stampede on Friday, the   undertake a survey and audit of the bridges at Pune railway station, besides a security check of all other passenger facilities at the earliest in view of the passenger safety. 
 
 As many as 22 people died and over 30 were seriously injured in a stampede on the overbridge linking Parel on the Central line and Elphinstone Road on the Western line of the suburban train network in Mumbai on Friday morning. The tragedy has raised concerns about similar facilities at Pune station.
 
 Harsha Shah, president of the  , who has been following various issues with the railway authorities, told TOI, "The situation at Pune railway station is grim, particularly in the morning and evening hours. Thousands of passengers have to squeeze to find their way to catch their trains at the right platforms in an extremely cramped situation on a daily basis. This, sometimes, has proved to be scary for the passengers in the past. Even so there is no improvement in it, which is unacceptable."
 
 Shah has been pursuing the issue of increasing the width of the old foot overbridge most used by passengers. "I have been requesting the authorities to connect all the FoBs to reduce the rush on the old overbridge. There has been no action, so far," Shah said.
 
