BENGALURU: As a labourer employed at a jute mill that manufactures gunny bags, he hardly had the luxury of visiting far-off places other than his remote hamlet of   at   district in West Bengal. However one day, with his hard-earned bicycle and Rs 3,000 in his pocket, Jaydeb Routh Roy set off on a bicycle journey. His aim was not just to travel across the country, but to take the message of cleanliness to as many people as possible.

 At an age when many find it hard to fit in their daily dose of exercise, the 46-year-old pedalled through West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and   and now, will head to Thiruvananthap uram in Kerala. Roy, who started his journey on February 26, reached Bengaluru in the first week of March.
 
 “I cover about 60-70km every day . I have no money to stay in hotels or lodges; I rely on the kindness of strangers for my meals. When I start off in the morning, I wouldn't be knowing how or where I would spend the night. I usually go to temples, churches or other religious places and ask if I can spend the night there. I have also stayed in many police stations, party offices and any place that I think can take me in,“ he told TOI.
 
 Roy said he has no fixed timings for meals but stops as timings for meals but stops as and when he feels hungry and finds a place. Clad in a white Swachch Bharat T-shirt with a flag draped around his cycle, he instantly grabs the eyeballs wherever he goes. People engage him in conversation and also offer to pay for his food, impressed with his dedication.
 
 Roy travels light, carrying nothing but a few clothes, a bedsheet, floor mat, some cash and a balm for his aching joints. He starts his day by 6am or 7am and rides till he gets tired, normally around 9pm. He's happy that he hasn't fallen sick and his bicycle, a basic model in the market costing Rs 4,000, hasn't given him any trouble on the way.
 
 At Champandy , his wife and 20-year-old daughter are eagerly waiting for his arrival on October 2. Being the sole breadwinner of the family, his decision to cycle around the country has taken a toll on the financial condition of the family. He always keeps a notebook, filled with messages in different languages from people he meets along the way. They serve as a lasting testament to his desire to effect some change, no matter how small, through the efforts of an ordinary citizen.
 
