How often have you come across a dog on the street and felt an instant connection with him/ her? Adopting a stray Indian breed or Indie breed as they are called is not easy but it isn’t difficult either. Many people have found their companion in strays and connected with them instantly. Not only did they open their homes to them, but also showered them with love and care. We bring to you a few stories of people adopting Indie dogs that will melt your hearts.

 
 : “I’ve four dogs of which two are adopted Indie dogs. Both of them were taken from the streets and I brought them home. My pets-Chinnu and Kali- have changed me completely. I’ve become more patient and a much better person,” she says. The bond that she shares with her pets is an unshakeable one. Shalini also stresses that her pets are very vigilant and have on more than one occasion saved her life.
 
 
 : “6 ½ years back when I moved to Bengaluru, I didn’t realize that I’ll have Charlie in my home in a week’s time. A friend of mine told me about a small pup near his office. When I saw him, I instantly fell in love with him. He is my first dog,” says Alicia. Adopting Charlie has been a learning curve, says Alicia. “Since I work from home, we’ve developed a strong bond. He’s a part of my illustrations as well and people instantly recognize him now. He’s more famous than I am,” she adds.
 
 
 : Adopting was always on his mind and Sanjay did not think twice before adopting two strays from the street. “Rani and Kush changed me completely. They taught me how to be patient. They would come to protect my mother in case I would have an argument with her,” he says jokingly. Instead of going out with friends, Sanjay says that he preferred staying at home, spending time with them. Rani recently passed away and that has been hard on me, he adds.
 
 
  “I had been thinking of adopting a pet for some time when I was told by a friend to visit this shelter that rescues animals. That is where I met  , my pet. The first time I saw her, she was bullying this dog who was bigger than her. She was so full of life and energy. All the time that I was there, there was never a dull moment. She has changed me in a way that am surprised with myself. I have become more caring and concerned when I thought that I could not even be responsible for another life,” says Raghu.
 
 
 Being surrounded by pets as a child, Anuridha adopted four Indie dogs- Dennis, Sai, Ammani and  . “I am a dog lover. For me having a dog is not about status symbol. They become a part of them family. I thought an Indie will love me as much as any other breed, so why not bring in them and give them a home, ” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If you cannot adopt an Indie, you can passively adopt them, which means that you look after their expenses including food, medical and others. Several animal shelters are now open to passive adopting, which enables an individual-who is constantly travelling or cannot keep a pet at home- but would still like to spend some time and care for a pet. That way you can even visit your pet and play with him/her and spend some quality time.
 
 
 
