CHARMINAR: Thousands of people participated in the historic   procession through the main roads of Old City on Sunday , mourning the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain and his 72 followers in Karbala in modern-day Iraq, 14 centuries ago. The sound of matam reached a crescendo as mourners beat chests and self-flagellated with chains and marched with the holy Bibi-ka-Alam and other Alams (standards) from the historic Bibi-ka-Alawa in Dabirpura to the banks of Musi in Chadarghat.A number of mourners inflicted self injuries to the lamentations of Karbala. Imam Hussain is the grandson of Prophet Mohammed. He and his family and followers were martryed in the battle of Karbala on 10th day of Moharrum (Yaum-e-Ashoora).

 The Bibi-ka-Alam procession started at 1.30 pm. It was delayed by half an hour due to late arrival of the processional elephant, Rajani. Mourners chanted Ya Hussain and Ya Ali as they recalled the events of Karbala.
 
 Men, women, youth and children in black joined the procession from different parts of Old City . The procession passed through Shaik Faiz ki Kaman, Etehbar Chowk, Kotla Ali Jah, Charminar, Gulzar Houz, Irani Galli, Panjeshah, Mandi Mir Alam, Purani Haveli, Darul Shifa, and Kali Qabar before reaching Chaderghat. At many places, people came out of their homes to offer `dhatis' to the Alam and seek blessings. Se veral non-Muslims too participated in the mourning. Hindu religious leader Swamy Sarang observed   (beating with a chain) to mourn martyrdom of Hussain.
 
  spokesperson Mir Firasat Ali Baqri told TOI that a day-long mourning was held to pay tributes to the martyrs of Karbala at Alawa-e-Bibi at Dabirpura.
 
 “Sacrifices of Imam Hussain have a universal message of patience, determination, fortitude and devotion, which are important to achieve salvation. The Karbala tragedy tells us that truth will prevail. Hazrat Imam Hussain taught us that dignity , truth and justice prevails over everything else in life. In fact, Imam Hussain is the shining example of forbearance and tolerance. He is a guiding light for the entire humanity,'' Baqri said.
 
 Scores of politicians cutting across party lines offered dhatis to Bibi Ka Alam. During the procession water and juice were distributed. Besides, special prayers were performed in mosques to mark the day of  .
 
 City police commissioner M Mahender Reddy visited Charminar to supervise security measures and deployment of police men for the Muharram procession.
 
 “The mourning procession passed off peacefully amidst elaborate security by the city police. About 5,000 policemen, RAF , She Teams and other security wings were deployed for the peaceful passage of the procession,'' Mahender Reddy told media.
 
