HAKUWALA(LAMBI): There was high drama in Hakuwala village of Lambi assembly constituency on Saturday, as Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh and   (AAP) leader Jarnail Singh stormed the village with their supporters after news spread that residents had forcibly taken into possession a car belonging to the brother and nephew of   (SAD) organising secretary Tejinder Singh Middukhera.

 Amarinder reached Hakuwala in a big convoy with his supporters and sat in the village near the impounded car. Both AAP and SAD complained to the Election Commission against Amarinder for violating the model code of conduct by moving into the area with several supporters. On the other hand, Congress and AAP asked authorities to look into allegations of an Akali leader distributing money to lure voters.
 
 Stakes are high in Lambi constituency where Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal is locked in a poll battle with Amarinder and former Delhi MLA Jarnail. “A score of Congress supporters on Friday morning intercepted a white-coloured Toyota Fortuner that had a ‘Proud to be Akali’ sticker pasted on its rear window. We suspect the car occupants had come to distribute money to lure voters, and we started gathering there. Seeing us, the car occupants — Middukhera’s brother Gurbakhshish Singh, who is the Lambi block samiti chairman, and nephew Gurlal Singh — escaped with a bag leaving the car behind. Later, Gurlal returned to get back the car and had an altercation with us. We did not allow him to take the car and informed Amarinder,” said a Hakuwala-based Congress activist, Gurdeep Singh.
 
 The villagers deflated the car tyres and damaged it. They also informed the election observer and police. After a couple of hours, Amarinder, his son Raninder and Comgress supporters reached the village and talked to residents. “Seeing their imminent defeat, Akalis are trying to lure people with money. We will not allow this to happen and want the Election Commission to take note of it,” said Amarinder.
 
  
  The former Punjab CM denied he violated the poll code. “I have come alone to look into illegal act of Akalis and did not violate the code of conduct for elections,” he said.
 
 AAP candidate Jarnail was already in Hakuwala when Amarinder reached in a convoy of vehicles. Apart from accusing Akalis of distributing money, Jarnail alleged that Amarinder had violated the code of conduct. “We have sent a complaint to Election commission to cancel Amarinder’s candidature,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Middukhera said his brother and nephew had gone to Hakuwala to condole the death of a veteran Akali activist, Atma Singh. “They had no money to distribute among people. It is a false claim. Congress workers led by Amarinder and his son Raninder indulged in sheer hooliganism as they damaged the car. Raninder climbed on top of it. We are approaching the Election Commission to cancel the candidature of Amarinder for violating the model code of conduct by gathering a large number of supporters and addressing people,” he said.
 
 When Amarinder reached, many Congress supporters raised slogans in his favour and the party flag was fluttering over at least two cars, said a Hakuwala resident Mohinder Singh. “A flying squad and static and videography team were sent to Hakuwala. The flying squad team searched the vehicle under videography. Nothing was found from the car. A report has been sent to the police to do the needful,” said Lambi returning officer (RO) Anmol Singh Dhaliwal.
 
 Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said they were recording the statements of the leaders of Congress and SAD. “The statement of AAP candidate Jarnail is also being recorded. Appropriate action will follow,” he said.
 
