 drew flak for allowing   to stake a claim even though it didn’t have the mandate of the majority. She tells Mirror she was waiting for Cong to get the numbers. When they didn’t, she took a call — after speaking to Jaitley.

 Goa governor Mridula Sinha has been knocked for allowing BJP — which on Saturday bagged 13 seats against Congress’s 17 — to form a government.  , which had won the most seats, termed it a “murder of democracy”.
 
 However Sinha, speaking exclusively with Mirror, reveals she wasn’t expecting that BJP would form the government. She was waiting for Congress to approach her, but BJP moved swiftly and secured the magic number of 21 in the 40-member house, while the Grand Old Party dragged its feet. Congress legislators are now breathing fire over the opportunity lost.
 
 Sinha also says she spoke with union finance minister   on Sunday night, before she arrived at a decision.
 
 She dilates upon the events following the hung assembly.
 
 
 
 No, no, it isn’t like that. According to the law, they have to come with the numbers. Congress got 17 seats and they needed 21 to form the government. They should have obtained the backing of four more members. But I heard they could not elect their Legislature Party leader, nor get enough support. So they did not come. Manohar Parrikar met me on Sunday, the day after the verdict, with 21 members and their support letters. They were all present before me. I talked to each of them and they again signed the letters of support for BJP.
 
 One group had the majority, and it would have been improper to call the other side which had fewer numbers. Even if I had called Congress for the sake of formality, it would have led to ridicule for them: everyone apart from them was with BJP.
 
 It is evident I have not done anything unconstitutional.
 
 
 
 
 
 Do you really think I have been unfair? I have told you the circumstances and they illustrate I followed procedure.
 
 I was anticipating that Congress would approach me first after securing the support of some groups, and form its government. But they didn’t show up. No one even called.
 
 When Congress leaders eventually demanded more time from me on Tuesday, I granted it. They wanted to meet at 11 am and I met them at 1 pm. I told them I had been waiting for them since Sunday morning. This is a fact.
 
 I didn’t expect the BJP to form the government, but it acted swiftly.
 
 How can Congress members cry injustice when they couldn’t muster support? It wasn’t up to me. Even the Supreme Court questioned them why they did not stake a claim, I am being told.
 
 
 
 
 Why would it? Parrikar is a smart, experienced and alert leader. He was chief minister for four terms. He knows everyone personally and I expect he will be attentive to all of them, knowing who can be constructive in which department. He knows how to keep them occupied.
 
 
 
 
 I didn’t speak with the Centre, no one approached me, no one called me.
 
 Then Parrikar informed me around 6.30 pm on Sunday that he would show up with his supporters and they came and I spoke with them for about an hour and a half. I am a psychologist, so I studied and analysed them. I saw their signatures on the letters. I deliberated on the matter. The Congress had not shown up.
 
 Then I felt I should speak with Arun Jaitley, and I called him around 9.30 in the evening, discussing the situation. I informed him I had verified the numbers and was satisfied and that Congress leaders hadn’t arrived yet. He said that if any party comes with the numbers, it has to be considered. So that settled it.
 
 
 
 
 No. I expected a party with majority. Everyone from officers to businessmen and the public in rural areas told me BJP would get the majority. But no one felt the undercurrent. Sometimes voters are silent and it is difficult to assess them.
 
 
 
 There is no specific challenge they face, other than that of developing the state. Those with the government (Goa Forward and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party or MGP) are not going to walk out on them. The alliance will stand.
 
 
 
 
 I have no advice to give him. He knows how to run a government.
 
 
 
 
 Casinos should be allowed to exist but must be run as per rules and regulations. One can’t shut them down since a lot of tourists and visitors frequent them. Instead of banning them, keep a strict watch on their activities.
 
 
 
 
 Goa is special and must get a special status. A large number of foreigners visit the place. And national and international events — BRICS, film festivals, and so on — happen here. All this will get a boost.
 
