INDORE: Amid tight security, candidates appearing for National Eligibility and Entrance test ( ) had to go through strict frisking in the city on Sunday as per norms set by the   ( ) to ensure the exams were conducted fairly.

 Approximately 14,000 candidates appeared for the examination in Indore held at 20 examination centres.
 
 The examination was held peacefully except for the frisking which was troublesome for many students, especially those who were not there with their parents.
 
 Though students were directed to not bring mobile phones with them, several students across various centres in the city still brought mobile phones and struggled to keep them safely before the examination.
 
 Security was high at the examination centres.  , a candidate who appeared for NEET said, “I was frisked four or five times right from the time I enter the school’s main gate till the classroom.”
 
 She said that candidates were asked to leave their wallets, belts, bags and mobile phones outside the examination room.
 
 A separate dress code was prescribed for candidates appearing for the exam. Students were directed to wear light clothes that with half sleeves and no shoes were allowed inside the centres.
 
 Many candidates who reached the examination centres with full or three-fourth sleeves had to get their sleeves cut off before they could enter the examination hall.
 
 The CBSE had issued a letter prior to the examination, informing candidates well in advance about certain items that will not be allowed inside examination centres such as any stationery like pens, rulers, erasers and calculators.
 
 After completing the exam, a majority of candidates felt that all three sections were easier this time as compared to previous years.
 
 “I was extremely stressed before the examination but after I saw the paper I was relieved and attempted the exams very confidently,” said  , another candidate who appeared for the examination.
 
 Medical entrance coaching experts from the city also rated NEET 2017 question paper as average and easy.
 
 “The question paper was quite easy. In the Physics section, 21 questions out of 45 were from the Class XI syllabus while the remaining 24 questions were from the Class 12 syllabus. In this section, 70 per cent of questions were direct formula based ones while the remaining 30 per cent were above average questions,” said Pankaj Gupta, a medical entrance coaching expert from the city. 
 
