NASHIK: After celebrating an eco-friendly Holi this year, Nashikites are now looking forward to attend a colourful exhibition ‘Rang Barse’ at Harmony   here.

 Sachin Patil, a well-known photographer, travelled across northern part of the country to capture a glimpse of Holi celebration in Mathura, Nandgaon and Barsana. Holi celebrations are a month long affair in these places.
 
 The exhibition was formally inaugurated on Friday evening. Architect Sanjay Patil, acclaimed painters Praful and   and Director of Harmony Art Gallery   were among the art lovers present for the event.
 
 While explaining the beauty and uniqueness of Nashik holi celebrations, Sachin Patil said, “There are places across India, including Nashik which is known for its unique Holi celebration. But, the Holi celebrations in Mathura and Vrindavan are special. Photographers across the world gather to capture the beauty of the Holi celebrations there. I have attended the celebrations last year, and it will remain as one of my most vivid experiences for a lifetime.”
 
 He added, “The celebration in Barsana and Nandgaon is a major attraction. You will find men from Nandgoan travelling to Barsana to tease women during Holi celebration. As a part of their custom, these women beat them with stick and the men protect themselves with shields. However, we photographers hardly have shields to protect ourselves and our cameras.”
 
 Patil had also captured the splendor Holi celebrations at   in Vrindavan where people celebrate ‘Phoolon wali Holi’. As the name suggests, Holi is celebrated with flowers here. “You will find priests throwing flowers at their devotees. Besides, phoolon wali holi, another kind is celebrated which is called Laddoo wali Holi. During this celebration, the devotees are served with Laddoos as a blessing.”
 
 “It was an enriching experience. Sachin Patil has brought us the best gift on Holi. The crowd was mesmerised with the awesome exhibition. It’s a must visit for art-lovers,” said internationally acclaimed artist Prafull Sawant.
 
