AGRA: Two MBA students of AMU Murshidabad Center,  , were detained and booked by Hathras government railway police after a married woman traveling with her family in the train alleged of been molested by two youths.

 The incident took place at train   at Netaji SC Bose junction Gomoh, Jharkhand, when the woman was sleeping with her two-month-old toddler in S5 coach from Howrah.
 
 According to GRP Hathras, two youths boarded the train from Dhanbad junction and were not having confirmed ticket, but later with the help of a TTE got a confirmed berth in another coach.
 
 Sub-inspector Rajeev of Hathras GRP said, "We have detained the duo and also the woman’s family, as the students claimed, that they were slapped by victim’s husband.”
 
 “The woman in her written complaint had alleged, that she was breastfeeding her toddler, when the two students intentionally touched her inapproriately, while they were taking tea from a vendor through iron-grilled window at Netaji SC Bose junction,” said SI Rajeev.
 
 He said, “The two first attempted to take the tea from another window, but then asked the vendor to give the tea from window where the woman was sitting.”
 
 Speaking to TOI on phone, the woman’s husband who owns a small restaurant in Kolkata claimed, “They touched my wife with the wrong intention. Later when I confronted, they changed their coach. My family and I’m under immense stress and cannot talk much about the incident.”
 
 After the incident, the two students texted message to their friends in Aligarh about the incident, after which group of 30 students of AMU gathered at Aligarh junction.
 
 Taking cognizance of the huge gathering of students, Tundla, Hathras and Aligarh GRP decided to disembark the two parties at Hathras station.
 
 Later in the night, GRP filed two FIRs based on the written complaints given by the woman and the two students.
 
 Station officer of Hathras GRP, Kripal Singh said, “The two AMU students have been booked under IPC section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), while one unknown person from woman side has been booked under IPC sections 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation). Since the incident took place in Jharkhand GRP jurisdiction, the FIR has been sent to at Netaji SC Bose junction Gomoh GRP to take further action.”
 
