HYDERABAD: In a move that is likely to trigger a controversy,   declared on Tuesday that all schools in the state including government and private ­ should offer   from classes I-XII. Those institutions disregarding the order shall be de-recognised, he added.

 “There is no second option for the schools, both in the government and private sector. They have to offer Telugu as a   in every class. Those institutions refusing to implement the government decision will not henceforth get approvals from the  ,“ said a senior official in the education department.
 
 It was also directed that all commercial establishments in the state will henceforth display signages in Telugu, apart from two languages of their choice. The CM also decided not to allow different text books by different schools and directed the Telugu Sahitya Academy to prepare a common Telugu text book for all classes.
 
 “The chief minister said these two decisions will be placed before the next cabinet meeting for necessary amendment in the law. If required, the government will bring about a legislation in this regard,“ said official sources.Till now, Telugu is offered as an optional language in the schools in the state till Class X.
 
 Apparently , the move was motivated by vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, who had requested Rao to strive for the protection of the language during a felicitation programme recently organised by the Telangana government. Being a post graduate in Telugu himself, Chandrasekhar Rao pondered over the suggestion with his close aides and Tuesday's decision was the outcome, sources said.
 
 “Till now, we have been following a trilingual policy implemented by the government of India. The CM now desires to give a big boost to Telugu language,“ deputy chief minister and education minister Kadiam Srihari told TOI.
 
 The CM also sanctioned 50 crore for holding the   in Hyderabad, besides announcing a fund of Rs 10 crore for the Sahitya Academy, and Rs 2 crore for the Official Language Commission. The World Telugu Conference will be held from December 15-19 this year.
 
 
 
 
