Checking-in your bag at the   before   is no guarantee that you will receive it intact, as city-based doctor Parth Pandya discovered, much to his annoyance. According to Parth, his   was lost during transit when he boarded a   from Goa to Ahmedabad. Almost 45 days later, the airline has still not been able to locate his bag which contained valuables and important documents. “The airline has washed its hands off by offering me Rs 1,600 compensation. That paltry amount doesn’t even cover the cost of my bag,” claims Parth, 33.

 He alleged that when he calls the airline to inquire about the bag, the staffers are rude and uncooperative. According to Parth, who is a dental pediatrician and a lecturer at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, said that his uncle Dhiren Pandya who had come down from the UK was accompanying him on the flight. “He had brought several valuable gifts from the UK which I had kept in the bag. Apart from that, my uncle had also given me some important documents for safekeeping. He had further travel plans from Ahmedabad and needed those documents,” Parth said.
 
 When Parth and his uncle arrived at Ahmedabad, they couldn’t locate the bag and immediately contacted the airline authorities. “A representative of the airline told me that the bag had been left behind at Goa airport by mistake. He assured me that they will locate the bag soon and deliver it to my residence in Gurukul. So, I relaxed a bit. But it has been more than 45 days and they have not located my bag or returned it. Instead, they paid me Rs 1,600 as compensation and another Rs 1,000 voucher for my next flight ticket. The Rs 1,600 compensation doesn’t even cover the cost of the bag, forget its contents,” said a furious Parth.
 
 He has written to the airline’s highest authority as well as the aviation authority for the return of his luggage. Parth claims the airline staff were rude with him when he followed up regarding his lost bag. “Despite such sophisticated system like barcodes on luggage, why has the airline been unable to locate the bag? It shows how casually they take passenger complaints. For them it is just one of the thousands of bag, but for me, the contents of the bag had value. It is the airline’s duty to ensure safe return of the bag. But instead, the airline staff was very rude to me every time I called to enquire.”
 
 Meanwhile, in a statement to Mirror, SpiceJet said, “As per the company policy, we have offered a compensation of Rs 1,600 towards the lost baggage. The compensation has been processed through online transfer to the bank account of the passenger. A detailed and thorough search for the bag was done and all airports have been asked to keep an eye out for the lost baggage. A service voucher of Rs 1,000 has also been offered and accepted by the passenger, which can be used on subsequent travels with SpiceJet.”
 
 
 
 Most of the airlines offer compensation between Rs 200 to Rs 350 per kilo of baggage. Some airlines, though, don’t have a clearly mentioned refund rate.
 
