AJMER: Most of the   in the state are not happy with the decision of doing away with   in  . These schools struggle a lot to get their students in merit lists so that they can attract more students for admission. Some schools have sent suggestions to the board demanding continuation of   

 According to sources, private schools made the propaganda of getting any merit list in board examination and attract parents to admit their wards, “When Class VIII district board was discontinued after implementation of Right to Education (RTE), schools went uneasy and demanded continuation of Class VIII board in 2010-2011,” said an official source.
 
 Private schools compete in their regions to get admissions, “There are some schools mostly in Nagaur, Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Bharatpur and nearby districts who are keen to get merits in the different board examination,” further said the official. He said just after board results, these schools do publicity to attract students.
 
 Sources said SOG also investigated an alleged graft in evaluation of answer sheets two years ago, “That time, it came into the notice of board that some private schools manage to get name of examiners who evaluated answer sheets and contacted them directly to get high scores of their students so that they can feature in merit list,” said a source.
 
 Sources added that many schools are not happy with board’s decision to discontinue the merit list system and therefore sent suggestion, backing for its continuity, “These schools have a plea that students feel proud by getting name in merit list and also encourage other students of their locality,” said a source.
 
 Experts say that doing away with merit list will help students to come out of stress, “There are many students who get into depression for not being able to feature in the merit list by minimal marks,” said experts. Last year, there were 136 students placed in first fifteen positions of board examination which become a trouble for the board, “CBSE already discontinued the system of declaring merit list decade ago to help students get out of stress,” said an official. Abolishing merit list also helps students to study tension free.
 
 
 
 
