NAGPUR: While RSS spokesperson  's remarks on caste-based quota have triggered controversy, a study by two professors of   suggests that open category should also get reservation. 

 Professor and head of political science, postgraduate teaching department, Mohan Kashikar and associate professor Rahul Bavge of Vasantrao Naik Government Institute of Arts and Social Sciences, jointly conducted two studies titled ‘Analytical Study of Maharashtra ZP Election 2012’ and ‘Study of Changing Trends in Nagpur ZP politics 1997 to 2012’
 
 Both the studies, having special reference to Nagpur, focused on the changing trends in zilla parishad politics since 1992. The aim was to study the impact of 73rd Constitutional Amendment.
 
 The researchers stated, “Quota scope should be broadened. Today, barring one or two, all open seats are occupied by backward candidates in addition to their reservation. SC/ST, OBC and women are politically mobilized. Weak point of open category is that they are not policially united and mobilized. Therefore they are performing poorly.” 
 
 Bavge said, “In 1992, open category representation was 13%. After the amendment, the figure went down to only 4%. Not more than 2 or 3 candidates are representing open category. In Nagpur ZP, there are 25 open seats, but 22 or 23 elected representatives don’t belong to the category. Therefore, there is demand for Maratha, Lingyat and Muslim quota.”
 
 The researchers said the 73rd amendment met its objective of giving enough representation to backward class and women, the open category members are now underrepresented in the democratic set up.
 
 Quota for open category would require another amendment, but in upcoming polls parties can give fair chance to  , Kashikar suggested.
 
 Bavge added that open category representation is not on par with their population.
 
 Similarly, he said in Scheduled Caste, Buddha SCs are popular while Hindu SCs have no scope. “This scenario led to quota within quota demand,” he said.
 
 “Social justice is for everyone. But we have limited it to only some communities. Every one should get due representation,” Bavge said.
 
 Kashikar said, “ZP politics forms the basis for state politics. It is believed that whoever controls ZP politics, controls the state assembly. Currently, both are in BJP’s kitty. Our research also attempted to see if this was true. In the upcoming polls, you would see the party controlling ZPs will hold sway.”
 
 Prafulla Gudadhe, corporator and MPCC general secretary, said, “In my opinion, open category doesn’t need any reservation. Already, 50% seats are for open category to fight elections.”
 
 Shakeel Patel, city president of AIMIM, said, “Every caste and religion should get quota according to its population size. This will automicatly change. BSP party leader Murli Meshram feels open category people should prove their calibre in order to succeed eventually. 
 
