AURANGABAD :Students preparing for the Regional Mathematical Olympiad (RMO) have another hurdle to surpass before qualifying for it—Pre-Regional Mathematical Olympiad (PRMO).

 The performance in the proposed centrally administered pre-test will be considered for participation in RMO and no other independently administered examinations will be recognised from this year onwards. 
 
 The   for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), which is in charge of the mathematical Olympiad activity, has entrusted its implementation to the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education (HBCSE) that has taken a decision to conduct the Pre-Regional Mathematical Olympiad (PRMO) examination to ensure uniformity in the first entry stage of Mathematics Olympiads. 
 
 The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), in its latest circular, has brought to the notice of all heads of institutions about PRMO getting introduced.
 
 The Mathematical Olympiad are held at different levels with an aim to strengthen the knowledge of students, enhance their innate problem solving skills and to identify talent at young age. 
 
 The maiden PRMO exam will be held on August 20 at different centres all across India. It will be organized this year by the Indian Association of Physics Teachers (AIPT), the same association that also organizes the National Standards Examination, which is the first step for participation in the International Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Astronomy and Junior Science Olympiads.
 
 The top 300 students from each region will be eligible to write the Regional Mathematics Olympiad exam.   (KV), CBSE and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) schools, which have a countrywide coverage, upto 5% of the number of registrations or 300 students can be selected, HBCSE has said.
 
 Vivek Savant, managing director of Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL), said, “It is good initiative on the part of authorities to introduce pre-test for Regional Mathematical Olympiad.”
 
 “Besides ensuring uniformity in the selection process, the pre-test would give new edge to preparations of students for Mathematical Olympiad. The reform will have a positive impact on overall conduct of the popular and prestigious examinations,” he said. 
 
 “The Mathematical Olympiad evokes huge response from students every year and it is a good move to introduce a pre-qualifier exam. The Pre-test would ensure level playing field for further selection processes,” said  , principal, Podar CBSE School 
 
 Manisha Rasal, a parent, said, “Math Olympiad needed some overhauling for long. It is good that the competitive authorities have categorically said that no other independently administered examinations will be recognised from this year onwards.” 
 
 Any school with at least 20 registrations can register as a centre for PRMO. However, the final list of approved centres will be issued by IAPT. An online portal has been opened (http://www.iapt.org.in/) where schools can register as centres till June 10. 
 
 “Students can register online by choosing one of the approved centres by June 30th for a fee of Rs 200. Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has made its schools available as centres free of cost. For KV students there is a provision to register by paying a fee of Rs. 100,” it was said.
 
 As per official schedule charted out by the HBCSE, each regional co-ordinator, including the co-ordinators for the groups KV, CBSE and Jawaharlal Navodaya Vidyalaya will receive the list of students eligible to   by September 15. Each regional co-ordinator shall conduct the RMO in her/his region on October 8.
 
