Wearable technology, which was a fantasy predicted in the popular Hollywood trilogy 'Back To The Future' in the 80s, has not just come true today, but is one of the topmost fitness trends for 2017. For health enthusiasts, fitness trackers are dime a dozen. Due to advancements in technology in the last few years, these popular activity bands have now gone beyond step trackers and can help you monitor your heart rate, body temperature, track your sleeping patterns, give insights into your health and also chalk out a customised gym regime based on your fitness levels! Dr Priyanka Desai Pilani, physiotherapist and fitness expert, shares, “With our busy lifestyles, we need effective ways to improve our overall health and get fit, which require less effort and time. Wearable devices are trackers on steroids — monitoring your workouts, counting your calories, evaluating your sleep, and tracking your progress as you slim down.” While wrist trackers are the most common   in the market, here are some more interesting options to keep you motivated, as you hit the gym...

 
 Though smart clothing is yet to go mainstream, fitness brands have realised their potential and are experimenting with the concept of making wearable garments more fashionable. These provide comfort while tracking your vital stats in comparison to strapped on gadgets like wrist trackers and chest heart rate monitor belts, which can be a hindrance while exercising.
 Compared to other wearables, smart clothes are available in more styles, colours and varieties for both men and women. Women can opt for smart sports bras, which are not fitted with hard plastic components. Other   wear is outfitted with sensors that transmit data to an app, on the wearer’s heart rate, stress levels and energy output. Some gym tees don’t just wick sweat, they also stream physical data to sensors that connect to a Bluetooth. You can also buy shorts and leggings, which are designed with resistance panels of smart fabric that tone and boost calorie burning during a workout.
 
 
 
 If you’re someone who tends to get carried away while binge-eating, a smart belt is a great option to keep your binging in check. These can measure the size of your waist using a magnetic sensor within the belt buckle itself, so it can monitor overeating! Like wrist trackers, the belt can also keep track of data such as steps taken, calories burnt, how long you sit during the day etc.
 
 
 For a motivational push when you’re working out, smart headphones/ earphones offer live audio feedback on your heart rate, speed, distance, calorie output, duration and in some cases, also measure your body temperature, besides the usual features like hands-free calls and music. The advice this wearable gadget provides is based on several factors, including your workout technique or stress levels.
 
 
 These glares, with ear buds attached to their sides, and an integrated microphone, don’t just let you listen to music and receive calls, but also help you stay motivated by continuously updating you with information about your performance when you are on the ‘run’. Connected to a smartphone, they analyse your performance by tracking your power output, heart rate, speed, cadence, time, pace and distance. They also create customised jogging and cycling training programmes.
 
 
 
 Many fitness brands have come up with   and in-soles that go beyond traditional tracking; the Artificial Intelligence (AI) in them analyses the data of the user and gives insight into muscle fatigue before a workout. It helps determine what level of exercise you should undertake. Some varieties ensure your balance, effort and posture are at its best, so that you can reach your peak performance without injury, while others use data to detect your sleep patterns.
 
 
 
 Want to know if you’re running correctly or are at the risk of an injury? Go for socks, which feature high-tech pressure sensors that are woven into the fabric, so you can’t feel them at all. Apart from preventing the risk of injury, they can also give you a breakdown of your cadence and share tips on how to improve your foot-striking position.
 
 
 
 The latest entrant in the world of wearable tech, this tiny tracker in the form of a ring packs in a heart rate sensor and can track your steps, sleep and ‘active minutes’ with a goal of getting its user to be active for at least 150 minutes per week. Though it doesn’t have a display screen like a wrist band, it can be synced to the smartphone and is as sleek as wearable tech can get.
 
 
 
 
