Trichy: Eighteen women employees have petitioned to higher officials alleging ‘bonded slavery of sexual nature’ against a senior section engineer (SSE) of Mayiladuthurai in Trichy   division. The petition has also been forwarded to the minister of railways, railway board chairman, divisional railway manager and women's commission of Tamil Nadu.

 The petition, signed by 18 women track maintainers, states they were often subjected to verbal, emotional and sexual harassment by Manivanam, 53, their immediate superior, at the workplace.
 
 The petition stated that he sanctioned leave only at the SRMU union office or at his residence after duty hours. It also adds that to get a transfer application forwarded, he demands sexual favours and if they opposed his action he would threaten with dire consequences.
 
 They were allegedly forced to rent a house identified by him where he made frequent visits even at odd hours. “In one incident he came and stood in front of our bathroom,” stated the petition. They were treated like bonded labours under him and he would poke his nose into their personal and family affairs and publicly pass derogatory comments, they alleged.
 
 K Babitha, one of the track maintainers, in the complaint stated that when she was on duty on September 3, 2017, Manivannan had asked to meet at his office. When she went to the office, she found that he was not there but he told her to meet at his quarters. Afraid, Babitha went to the quarters accompanied by her colleague Ashok. Manivannan threatened Ashok when he prevented the former misbehaving with Babitha, the complaint added.
 
 Baby Shakila, assistant general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU), said that she received a copy of the complaint signed by 18 women track maintainers. “I have forwarded it to the divisional personnel officer as well as the chairperson of the committee of against sexual harassment of women at workplace,” she said.
 
 However, Dr Laxmi, deputy chief medical superintendent of Trichy division and chairperson of the committee against sexual harassment of women at workplace told TOI that she had not received any such complaint yet.
 
 Manivannan denied all the allegations levelled against him saying that it is an attempt to victimise him for being strict and duty bound by some persons including officials and rivals. “The allegations are a conspiracy perpetrated by some officials and rival trade unions against me. The innocent women   are also unknowingly falling prey to their plot,” he added.
 
 Divisional railway manager P Udaykumar Reddy said that he had received a complaint and would take action against the erring staff if the allegations were proved true.
 
 
