LUCKNOW: In good news for  , it has become easier for them to cast their vote despite being away from their constituency in the  . 

 To be be used for the first time on a major scale,   (ETPB) system will benefit nearly 1.40 lakh service voters—defence and paramilitary personnel posted outside their constituency—of the state.
 
 The system was recently tested successfully in a by-election in Puducherry and will replace the   system in practice till now. 
 
 Now, a voter can directly download the   in the form of an encrypted file using a one-time password. This could be through mobile or email. A PIN would be generated to decrypt and print the ballot paper. The person would then cast his vote and send it to the returning officer in his constituency through post in an envelope. Every envelope carrying the vote of the service elector would have a unique barcode reader. The returning officer would check the envelope with a reader on his end.
 
 According to ECI, the system is fully secured and has been tested for various technical issues. Necessary security audit certificates have been obtained for it.
 
 ECI director, media, Dhirendra Ojha said, “As of now, service voters have the option of casting their votes through proxy or postal ballot as of now. Physical ballot papers are sent to the service voters and their votes are received back through post. This is time-consuming. Hence, government undertaking Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) will now undertake development of one-way postal ballot delivery through electronic medium.”
 
 Deputy chief electoral officer Ratnesh Singh said, “The returning officer would generate the e-postal ballot online after the last date of withdrawal of candidature by candidates. After this, it would go to the record office of service voters and then to districts where these voters are posted. 
 
 Last month, a training programme was organized by ECI for trainers of the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, CRPF, BSF, ITBP, CISF, NSG, NIA, SSB, Assam Rifles and the ministry of external affairs. 
 
 Additional chief electoral officer PK Pandey said awareness programmes would be organised after the process is complete. 
 
 According to the chief electoral officer of UP, the final list of service electors is likely to be released on January 11.
 
