Panaji:   may speak in halting English, but the coach from Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was fluent in expressing his plan to take Goan   to another level.
 
  Accompanied by his assistant  , Gil’s presence in Goa represented Table Tennis Federation of India’s ( ) reaction to the rapid strides taken by the state in recent times.
  
  The duo made their way into the Indoor stadium at Campal on Wednesday and quickly put their young charges through the motions.
  
  Watching the proceedings were advisor to the TTFI and former general-secretary   along with joint-chairman of the technical committee N Ganesan.
  
  Gil, a former international, seems to have his work cut out for the next three weeks where his services have been sponsored by a TTFI-SAG joint venture. “I will work on developing the basic techniques of the players. Most importantly, I will concentrate on their footwork,” he said. “And I will always coach the players to play an attacking game,” he added with a great deal of conviction.
  
  Although the Indian table tennis team has an Italian coach Massimo Constantini, the bonding with coaches from the DPR Korea has spanned two decades. According to Choudhary, Korean coaches fit the bill nicely when it comes to Indian table tennis.
  
  “They understand the psychology of Indian players, are solid in the basics, are hardworking, set high standards and are very affordable,” Choudhary, also the treasurer of the Asian TT Union and a member of the board of directors of the ITTF, the world body.
  
  The Koreans are hired by the TTFI to develop the sport all over the country and Choudhary believes that young Goan players are worthy beneficiaries.
  
  
  He made a special mention of Tanisi Kirtani, Wesley Rosario, Nagesh Verenkar and Shantesh Mapshekar who have boosted Goa’s stocks in the national circuit.
  
  Choudhary also expressed joy at seeing young players execute strokes even at a tender age and found it heart-warming that parents in Goa were fervent in their support of the children’s aspiration in the sport.
  
  It all adds up nicely with Goa Table Tennis Association president Vero Nunes’ plans of setting up a regional academy in the state. “The TTFI, viewing the high standard of the game in Goa, are keen that a regional academy is set up here,” Nunes said. “If our proposal is moved by the government we would have 60 percent of the academy population comprising Goan players and the rest from the surrounding areas,” he added.
  
  The national sub-junior championships scheduled for December is further testimony of Goa’s rising stature in the country. And if the Korean lessons are well and truly imbibed, the bar could be raised by Goa’s effervescent young paddlers.
