GURUGRAM: After the lows, the big high. More than a month on from the city’s watering holes going dry, those who enjoy more than the occasional night out on the tiles finally had reason to cheer. It was time for whistles to be wetted again.

 A little over a week after F&B establishments in Sector 29 (alongside a bunch of high-end hotels) were given the go-ahead to fill their beer taps, 32 bars and pubs and restaurants in   received the nod to start serving drinks again. It signalled the moment when Gurgaon’s beating heart slowly found its throb again.
 
 A day earlier, on Thursday night, the green light that had been given by deputy excise and taxation commissioner, H C Dahiya, was reason enough for some of the owners at the ‘Hub’ to indulge in a bit of celebratory bar-hopping. The fizz was back in their business, and the feeling must have been as pleasurable as that first swig of frothy delight on a hot summer’s day.
 
 Still, it wasn’t the usual Friday evening buzz, and the plaza was hardly chock-a-block with happy weekenders. Restaurant managers admitted it will take a few more days for the ‘Hub’ to return to normal, to its pre-April 1 tippled and tickled self. Certainly, everyone expected next weekend to be more of a party.
 
 The lack of Friday atmospherics can be easily explained. Many people had already finalised their weekend plans. A few may not have been aware that the prohibition order had been lifted (yes, even in these times of tweets/postings going viral within minutes).
 
 Still, there were a few walk-ins, couples or families, or bands of brothers and squads of sisters. They figured to try their luck, and see if Cyber Hub was back to its high-spirited best. Indeed, at one or two of the eateries, it seemed as if the proprietors and their patrons were doing their best to make up for lost time. But much of the crowd was what one would usually spot on any weekday here, corporate workers unwinding after a hard slog. As the latest ear candy floated in the background, or retro hits boomed from the speakers, groups of millennials downed pitchers of beer, content that their old haunt had burbled back to life.
 
 All, in other words, was well with the world again. Yet, it somehow felt as if a venue had shrunk from stadium-rock arena to intimate nightclub. As if someone turning up expecting to see   instead stumbled onto an Ed Sheeran gig. Not disappointing, but not what you’d spent your hard-earned salary on.
 
 Crores, altogether, must have gone down the drain (all that microbrewery apparatus doesn’t come cheap). Maybe, just to be on the safe side, Gurgaon’s authorities might consider insuring this city landmark. For without its licence to swill, the ‘Hub’ just wouldn’t be the ‘Hub’.
 
 
