NAGPUR: Twelve years ago, 25   were selected for a camp by the   (NSD). They were thrown into an intensive theatre experience from December 1 to January 15, with sessions held from 8am to 8pm every day at the  , Dharampeth. The participants discovered theatre, and themselves, in ways they had never imagined before going down diverse paths. Now, 12 years later, 20 of those participants are coming together again, to bring alive memories of the camp, and stage a production.

 “We are in the initial stage of scripting characters, and have decided to stage a production on November 5 at  ,” said Devyani Joshi, who has kept pursuing theatre after the camp, and was instrumental in getting the group together. A meeting was held recently at the same venue where the camp was held.
 
 The NSD camp was the first initiative of this stature, and has not been repeated in the city after that. Over time, the participants have veered to different ways; some continuing to pursue theatre, some in completely different fields. 
 
 Recalling the days of the camp, actress and costume designer Pooja Pimpalkar says, “It was a beginning for all of us. They showed us a window to the vast sea called theatre. Experts in the field introduced us to various concepts and showed us what our thinking level should be. It has given me clarity and focus, and I’ve been able to continue in this field.”
 
 At the camp, known names in the field such as Noushad Mohamed Kunju taught body movement and animal instinct, Anamika Haksar introduced production process, Mahesh Elkunchwar and   demonstrated playwriting, Atul Pethe focused on voice culture, Shashadar Acharya brought in the techniques of Chhau dance form, Jayadev Hattangadi taught play direction and set design, while Aniruddha Khutwad took up the concept of realistic acting. K Mohanan taught make-up.
 
 Khutwad, who was the camp director, says, “It was an NSD extension programme where we conduct camps in different regions every year to spread awareness about theatre. For 12 years, they were busy in their careers; some continued in theatre and some couldn’t. Our aim was not to make them join theatre, but to at least be a good audience and be related to the art. It’s encouraging to see that they have come together again.”
 
 At the end of the camp, a show had been staged at Scientific Society Hall, where all facets of theatre were handled by the students, resulting in poetry depictions and staging of two productions. “Through this camp, I learnt that I am better suited for realistic genre. The teachers were like gods for us,” said Deeplaxmi Bhat, lecturer at Sevasadan Junior College.
 
 Sachin Gaikwad, who works in an MNC now, says, “I learnt that you don’t just act the role, but you live the role.” 
 
