PANAJI: While the mango season in Goa typically begins in the last week of March, over the years the fruit has been available for sale far earlier, and at times even as early as January. This year, as February enters its third week, the local market is flooded with the attractively displayed bright gold fruits.

 “The local varieties of mangoes from the state are yet to hit the market. Right now, what is seen are sourced from Bengaluru and Kolhapur,” said a fruit vendor, Yasin Shafi.
 
 A mix of both; organically grown mangoes and scientifically produced as a result of horticultural innovations are available in the market. These are local varieties as well as those imported from other mango-growing states. From all these, Mancurad and Hilario are much sought after. “Only a small quantity of the produce of Mancurad and Hilario varieties comes from grafted trees,” said Dr AR Desai of the ICAR-CCRI, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.
 
 Other commercial varieties like Alphonso, Totapuri, Neelum, Desheri, Langra, etc. which are brought into the state are also from grafts. “Most of the   produce coming from Maharashtra is the result of the Paclbutrzol-driven (Culatar) flower induction technology. For uniform ripening of fruits, fruit ripening chambers are also employed,” he said.
 
 Most mango produce comes from very old trees that have a lot of variations in quality and are scattered across the state. Desai believes that scientific mangoes are better compared to these conventional ones. 
 
 “Scientifically selected varieties will have better quality in terms of taste, flavour, less fibre content, attractive skin and pulp colour, as well as better shelf life,” he said.
 
 Currently, saccharine mangoes are selling in the market for Rs 50 per piece, while the Mancurad is going at Rs 500 per piece. The smaller Mancurad is priced at Rs 100 per piece, while Totapuri is being sold for Rs 120 per kilogram. The high price has got a poor response from customers, prompting vendors to play it safe by selling approximately 50-100 mangoes.
 
 Citizens, on the other hand, are choosing to wait until April to purchase the succulent fruit. “In our childhood, mangoes were offered to God for   as the first fruit of the season. The market today is such that they are available unseasonably and it is tough to differentiate organic mangoes from the scientific ones. Either way, the price is too high for us to indulge in the fruit right away,” said  , a real estate developer.
 
 Currently, saccharine mangoes are selling in the market for Rs 50 per piece, while Mancurad is going at Rs 500 per piece. The smaller Mancurad is priced at Rs 100 per piece, while Totapuri is being sold for Rs 120 per kilogram. The high price has got a poor response from customers, prompting vendors to play it safe by selling approximately 50-100 mangoes
 
