BIJNOR: The   has directed its   to  , a move through which the state expects to generate   for the   and also stop the dry trees from falling into the hands of timber mafias.

  Now, in a massive drive, all the dead trees in the state forests and also along the roads will be felled and sold by the forest department.
 
  “It is assessed that thousands of old and dry trees along the roadside will give a hefty amount to the forest department. Earlier, timber mafias and villagers used to cut them,” said M Semmaran, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Bijnor.
 
  The authorities have now started a survey to identify the dead trees.
 
  “UP government has ordered that all the dead trees should be cut down as soon as possible and new saplings of different species, such as pilkhan, pakhad, bargad, jamoon and kikar should be planted. In due course, they will grow up and take the place of the old trees,” Semmaran said.
 
  He said that the move will generate huge amount of revenue for the government.
 
  “It is aimed at increasing revenue of the forest department, and this money will be spent on new projects which are in the pipe line. We have started conducting a survey of all the dead trees. They will be chopped to give place to the new saplings. After conducting the survey, we will send the report to higher authorities for approval. It is assessed that thousands of old and dry trees standing along the roadside will give a huge amount of revenue to the forest department. Earlier, timber mafias and villagers used to cut these trees,” the DFO said.
 
  During rainy season also, strong winds and storms uproot several dry trees, which are taken away by the mafias and locals.
 
  Sanjeev Rana, a resident of Mandawali village, told TOI, “Earlier, the forest department used to mark the trees and kept a record. But now, unfortunately, I don’t see this happening. The result is clear. Thousands of trees, both big and small, have vanished. The timber mafias took full advantage of this lacuna. They have cut a large number of trees and sold it in the market. Their stumps can still be seen at many places.”
