HYDERABAD: Waking up to the ground reality that the state is losing thousands of acres of government land to various scams, the state government has now decided to carry out a comprehensive land resurvey .

 The fresh survey will be conducted by the Survey Settlements and Land Records (SSLR) department in the erstwhile eight of the 10 Telangana districts, excluding Hyderabad and Nizamabad. The decision to go for a fresh land survey was announced by deputy chief minister and revenue minister   a couple of days ago after several land scams came to light in the erstwhile  
 
 “The resurvey will begin after monsoon and will be completed in one and half years. Once the survey is completed, there will be clarity on the extent of government land, patta and forest land,“ Mahmood Ali told TOI.
 
 According to officials, several village maps, field measurement books (FMB) or Tippons and Sethwars, which are consi dered the original parent records as they provide classification of the land, extent and pattadar names, are missing in the state. Making matters worse, fabricated records and lack of proper survey maps have resulted in encroachment of government land.
 
  claimed digitisation and demarcation of government, private and forest land will help various agencies identify and safeguard government and forest land and also put an end to land disputes to a great extent.
 
  A comprehensive land resurvey was originally proposed by the undivided AP government a decade ago as the land records were 85 years old.The government proposed the resurvey under the National Land Records Modernization Programme (NLRMP), which was renamed e-Dharti by the NDA government in 2015.
 
 “The purpose of digitisation of land records was to develop a modern, comprehensive and transparent records management system and also have a conclusive land-titling system,“ a senior SSLR official told TOI.
 
  In 2008, land resurvey and updation of records was taken up in Nizamabad on a pilot basis under the   project.Later, proposals were sent for taking up similar projects in Karimnagar, Srikakulam, Kadapa, Anantapur and Nellore districts. But it could not be taken up as the then government did not release its share of funds.
 
 Again a couple of years ago the Centre had released Rs 83 crore as part of the erstwhile NLRMP , but when the SSLR department approached the   for administrative sanction to float a tender for carrying out the survey, it did not give required clearance.
 
