KALYAN: A 19-year-old student was   outside his   by two youths on Tuesday, reportedly over a love affair gone wrong.

 Pranay More, 19, was an FYBCom student of the South Indian Association College and lived in the Sagarli area with his parents. Police said the main accused Vignesh Sarkate, 20, suspected that his former girlfriend, who studied in Pranay’s class, was having an affair with the latter. He’s been arrested. 
 
 On Tuesday, at around 12.30pm, Pranay stepped out of the college. Vignesh and a friend approached him, saying they wanted to have a word. After taking him some distance, they stabbed him with knives before fleeing. 
 
 Locals and Pranay’s friends, who were with him when he had stepped out of the college near the Dombivli gymkhana, rushed him to a nearby private hospital where Pranay died during treatment at 3.30pm.
 
 During their preliminary probe, police found Vignesh had an affair with the girl and both initially wanted to get married. However, the girl’s family refused as the boy did not have a proper job and they were concerned that he kept bad company. Vignesh had stopped studying after Class XI and works in a private firm. He lives in Ajde village in Dombivli.
 
 After her family’s response, the girl began avoiding Vignesh and even stopped taking his phone calls for the last three months. Later he learnt she was friends with Pranay, who studied in the same class, and began to suspect that they might be having an affair. Vignesh harassed the girl several times, asking her not to speak to Pranay, but she didn’t give it much importance. Police said the accused attacked Pranay on mere suspicion. The victim knew Vignesh as he would earlier come to meet the girl.
 
 Pranay’s parents, both of whom work in a private firm, were in a state of shock. His father Suresh said just last week, he had attended a parent-teacher meeting in his son’s college and couldn’t imagine anything of this sort would happen.
 
 Suresh Raut, inspector of Manpada police station, said: “The probe shows the accused was in love with a girl studying in the victim’s class. He believed the girl liked the victim and may have killed him on that suspicion.” Raut said three teams had been formed to search for the absconding accused.
 
