As a model working in South   in the early 2000s, Tracie Wright Vlaun started doing yoga along with her fitness regimen to help her deal with the mental toll that the fashion industry can sometimes inflict. “To let go of all the BS,“ is how she put it. But she eventually wanted something “less Om-chanty,“ and set about to create a workout that would blend poses into a more intense session.
By 2009, she and her trainer husband Chris Vlaun had devised a regimen that included entry-level yoga poses and bodyweight exercises grounded in the “fundamentals of ancient movement art disciplines.“
 
 Aeroga, the name of the duo's high-energy workout offered at Florida's St. Regis Bal Harbor Resort, is a seamless mix of power-based calisthenics set to a choreographed playlist.
 
 Hybrid takes on vinyasa flow are the latest attempt to convince high net worth, Type-A guys that spending 60 sweaty minutes stretching next to beautiful, scantily clad women is a good idea. These riffs on the Indian art are more likely to resemble boot camp-style workouts, and classes come with such names as Hardcore Yoga, Core  , and Cross Flow X, integrating elements of weightlifting, martial arts, Spin, and boxing.
 
 There are actual punching bags at Box+Flow, which opened last November in downtown New York. The 50-minute barefoot classes begin with shadowboxing warmups, then shift to sessions on the bags with a h i g h e n e r g y To p 4 0 soundtrack, then a final session of yoga postures that ends with breathing exercises and a savasana. “It's yin and yang, fire and water,“ said founder Olivia Young. “Yoga allowed me to open up and slow down. But I tend to be very high-energy, and I needed something with more adrenaline.“
 
 Skeptics abound, of course. Adam Vitolo, who teaches Iyengar classes for Pure Yoga in New York, said a yoga session, properly done, should deliver a well-rounded workout by itself.“My perspective is that a lot of people hurt themselves in those classes, then they come to my class and learn about their bodies, then go back and are able to do them safely,“ he said.
 
