LUCKNOW: Before landing in the intensely charged  , Kanupriya (24) completed her masters in international studies and politics from a Dubai-based international university. Her routine is to get up at 6am and check all newsfeeds on her Smart tablet.

 Her younger sister Shivangi (20), an MBBS second year student of Mangalore-based medical university joins her over breakfast to find contacts in localities not visited yet. Their father Neeraj Bora is contesting from Lucknow North assembly constituency on BJP ticket. “Our female relatives tell us if any bhajan, kirtan or kitty party is being organised in Aliganj, Vikasnagar, Jankipuram, Daliganj, Triveninagar or other localities under Lucknow North and along with our mother we reach out to them,” said Kanupriya. 
 
 Contestants vying for the assembly seats from the district are banking on family support. Like Bora’s daughters strengthening his outreach among women, bank official Prakash Chandr, husband of Rajbala Rawat, the SP candidate from Malihabad is busy playing multiple roles planning his wife’s campaign trail for the next day.
 
 “I don’t have to ask him to take a day off from work but he understands and also takes care of children when I am away. Women get empowered when they have men like Prakash as partner,” said Rajbala.
 
 Samajwadi Party’s Sarojininagar candidate Anurag Yadav’s wife Abhilasha Yadav has moved door to door across the constituency and met villagers, families of Army personnel and residents to take note of issues. “Being a family man, Anurag is sensitive to householders’ problems, so we have made a list of issues he will address if elected,” said Abhilasha, an NIFT professional and accomplished wildlife photographer.
 
 Retired junior commission air force officer, 70-year-old Shatrughan Nath Srivastava build bridges with strangers to garner support for his son Ajay, BSP candidate from Lucknow North. Many senior citizens in Vikasnagar and Aliganj have pledged support since his father began rounding them up early morning in parks.
 
 Son of BSP’s Lucknow East candidate Saroj Kumar Shukla, Gaurav, an advocate, handle logistics and manpower for the campaign. “I have put all my cases on hold for the past two months,” he said.
 
 Swati Singh, BJP candidate from Sarjoninagar said, “My husband Daya Shankar Singh and brother Puneet Singh accompany me to every public meeting and I could not have come this far without them.”
 
