HYDERABAD/AMARAVATI: A severe drought looms over Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for the second year in succession with depleting water levels in major   across Godavari, Krishna and Penna rivers. Groundwater levels also dipped alarmingly in many places in Telugu states, triggering concern. Though the   in reservoirs is better compared to last year as on April 4, early onset of summer has added to evaporation and overexploitation of groundwater table. 

 Officials fear water in reservoirs in the Godavari, Krishna and Penna basins may not last long if the mercury continues to soar during April-May. Southwest monsoon enters AP-Telangana by mid-June, but fresh inflows into reservoirs begin only during September-October.
 
 If the water level in different reservoirs is any indication, the Telugu states will be in serious trouble after June. Water flow into reservoirs in AP and Telangana depend more on generosity of Karnataka and Maharashtra rather than the rain god. There have been several instances when Godavari and Krishna were in spate in Karnataka and Maharashtra, but flood water hardly trickled into dams in Telugu states as the upper riparian states impound flows.
 
 The common capital, Hyderabad, may not face immediate water shortage as the city is served by both Krishna and the Godavari rivers. However, if there is no good and early monsoon, Hyderabad may face water crisis after summer. As of now, officials say there is no shortage of water for Hyderabad city. They, however, call upon people to conserve it. The AP de facto capital city of Amaravati (Vijayawada-Guntur) also sits pretty. Thanks to sufficient storage in the  , there will be no crisis till September. However, agricultural activity will be badly hit in the Krishna delta as the Pulichintala reservoir is almost empty.   city may face water shortage during summer.
 
 Interestingly, AP has so far managed the situation well by storing 17 tmc of its quota while Telangana already consumed its quota. While AP utilised nearly 29.81 tmc of its quota of 47 tmc, Telangana utilised 31.5 tmc as against its quota of 31 tmc.
 
 Officials fear it might take long time for the projects in AP and Telangana to get water even if the monsoon is good as projects in Karnataka have also dried up. The projects in Telugu states get priority only after Almatti and Narayanapur projects, which have a combined capacity of 167.37 tmc. So, it could be a prolonged summer for Telugu states as they have to manage the water crisis till the end of June.
 
 Though Pulichintala project is touted as a balancing reservoir for the   barrage, officials failed to store sufficient water. As on April 4, the water level in Pulichintala is only 0.24 tmc ft. However, there is an inflow of 69ww cusecs and authorities are letting out 2950 cusecs into Prakasam barrage downstream. As against the total storage capacity of 815.83 tmc in both states, only 240.06 tmc ft is available. This is better than last year when the storage was only 211.45 tmc ft. 
 
