GURUGRAM: Having failed to make any headway in the recent   and   case in   near  , Gurgaon police have now sought help from their counterparts in neighboring districts and states.

 DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar met senior officers from Delhi and   as well as from adjoining districts at Manesar police station on Saturday and sought their cooperation and leads on earlier incidents in the neighbouring states that bore resemblance to the Mandpura crime.
 
 Sources said apart from senior officers from Delhi and Rajasthan police, cops from Faridabad, Nuh, Palwal, Rewari and Jhajjar districts attended the meeting and shared with each other information on proclaimed offenders, bail jumpers and most wanted criminals in their areas. They also discussed highway robberies and similar incidents that took place in Pataudi and Gurgaon in recent years.
 
 “It was a coordination meeting between police officers from the neighboring states and districts. Pataudi gang rape and robbery case is on our priority list and it will be solved soon with the help of cops from other states. Our special investigation team (SIT) and other crime teams are on the job and we hope the accused will be arrested soon,” said Kuhar. Meanwhile, Suman Dahiya, vice president of   (HCW), has asked the Gurgaon police to ensure a speedy probe in the case. On Friday, she visited the crime spot and met the six men and two rape survivors and their families. “The gang rape has again put a question mark on the law and order situation here. Cops said the accused might be from other states, but the case must be solved without any delay,” Dahiya said.
 
 On the night of January 28, eight armed men entered a poultry farm in Mandpura. They took turns to rape two women, while six men — including husbands of the two women — who worked in the factory and were sleeping there, were robbed and locked up in the next room. The medical investigation conducted following the incident revealed both the women, aged 19 and 20, were pregnant at the time of the crime.
 
 
