CHENNAI: The delay in CBSE  , likely by May-end, is likely to affect students of CBSE-affiliated schools in the state as colleges began admissions on Friday, when the Class XII state board reaults were out. Chances of seats for popular courses like BCom and   being filled by then are high. 

 About half of TN's 600 CBSE schools offer higher secondary course that 13,180 students cleared last year.
 
 This year, 8.22 lakh students, including two lakh from commerce stream, cleared the Class XII state board exam. Given the high number of students, the 1,000-odd arts and science colleges begin admissions the day the Class XII state   are out.
 
 This is a violation of the statutes of state government universities, said Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association vice-president  . "Each arts and science college has to give 10 days to students to submit applications for admission.
 
  On the 11th day, the college should publish the rank list based on the Class XII state board score." The statutes also mandate colleges to conduct admission through the single-window format, but very few follow it, he said.
 
 Asked if 10 days were enough to give an equal chance to CBSE students, Veeramani said he felt applications should be accepted till May-end. "Unfortunately, statutes do not allow that."
 
 The situation in engineering and agriculture universities is better. Anna University, Chennai accepts applications till June 3, while Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, does it till June 4.
 
 A professor of an aided institution said arts and science colleges adopted step-motherly treatment towards CBSE students. "Most such students are admitted under management quota. Only a few colleges keep apart some seats in the merit category, depending on the vacancies at the end of day one of admissions, he said."
 
 Principal of St Joseph's College, Trichy, S Andrew, said his institution reserved at least 10 seats for CBSE students in specific courses under merit category. 
 
