Until two weeks back, we were sullenly looking at the sky bereft of a hint of cloud. But when the first showers of the season hit Kolkata, we welcomed monsoon with overwhelming joy. This brought us to wonder -what's not to love about rains? It evokes nostalgia, the city looks beautiful and  't even get us started on the petrichor! Often, we are tempted to ask time to slow down so we can take the essence of monsoon in. Rain, a balcony, a good company and a cup of piping hot tea -there's something for everyone to look forward to. With monsoon setting in, CT is here with tips that will get you through the gloomy yet beautiful season like a pro. Take note!

 
 
 Splash your face with water as many times as possible and pat it with a clean towel. Let the skin breathe to look fresh. If you get drenched in the rain, take a bath using an anti-fungal soap to wash off the bacteria.
 Pay special attention to feet and toes as these are body parts that tend to remain damp and are prone to skin diseases. Soak your feet in warm water mixed with an antiseptic liquid. After 10 minutes, pat dry and apply a moisturiser. 
 The skin loses its sheen during monsoon and toning helps in retaining it. It restores the pH balance of the skin, thus helping it get its radiance back. Don't forget to wipe your makeup off before going to bed. 
 While monsoon can dehydrate dry skin further, it can have an over-moisturising effect on oily skin. Using a light lotion-based moisturiser or serum can gently rehydrate the skin, making it look fresh and healthy.   too is a must. 
 Use a mild shampoo to remove any residual dirt on your scalp.Follow it up with a conditioner.
 
 
 
 Use waterproof makeup during monsoon. Stick to matte foundation base and use a compact powder over it to even it out. Different shades of blue like ocean blue, turquoise, powder blue are colours that are in vogue. Use pop up pencils to draw a line on the upper lid and smudge it to make it look smoky. If you are going out in the evening, wear mascara for a dramatic effect. To lift your mood, use brighthued lipsticks like red, orange and pink. If the eye makeup is bright, go easy on lips. Powder blush is the best for monsoon. Go for one in light brown or peach to highlight your cheeks.
 
 
 
 Footwear should be open and airy. Avoid wearing leather footwear and closed shoes.   shoes can look stylish if you buy the right pair. 
 Limit accessorising to a minimum.Wear either a pair of heavy earrings or a chunky necklace. Both, when worn together, will look overwhelming. 
 Carry waterproof bags in bold colours. 
 Avoid accessories made of jute, fabric or thread.
 
 
 
 Opt for brighter pallets like canary yellow, teal blue, raspberry red and purple. 
 Avoid linen and cotton. They tend to become soggy and clumsy in monsoon. Instead, a blend of rayon and lycra is a smarter option. 
 Digital-print umbrellas are perfect for this season.
 Flaunt transparent, fluorescent rain coats and bright Wellington boots.
 Opt for shorter lengths and tapered fits. Avoid tea-length dresses and go for knee-length shifts. Capris, drainpipe pants, culottes and shorts are great fashion bets this season.
 Get your hands on eclectic prints to lift your mood. 
 For men, bomber jackets paired with tees and hoodies are hoodies are great. Don't even think about leather! 
 Acrylic and crystal accessories are more skin-friendly than the ones in metals.
 
 
 
 Up your water intake. A least three litres a day is necessary to hydrate your skin and body properly. 
 Incorporate 150 grams of seasonal fruits in your diet. Khichudi is one of the most balanced diets with equal proportions of protein and carbohydrate in it. However, fried accompaniments should be minimal.
 Who doesn't love  ? It is rich in omega 3 so pack up on it.
 To avoid hair fall, have four almonds daily in the morning. Seasonal greens also stop hair thinning.
 Balance your diet properly and exercise daily for half an hour.
 
 
 
 Gastritis is a common problem during monsoon.One must be careful about drinking unfiltered water. 
 Make sure fruits and vegetables are clean before you consume them. P
 eople are susceptible to viral infections during monsoon so make sure you don't get drenched often. Typhoid, too, is a common infection.Don't consume food that has been kept open for long.
  Skin problems such as dermatitis, fungal infections, ringworms and eczema are common during monsoon.Keep your skin clean to avoid these.
 
 
 
