PATNA: The northern parts of the state are likely to witness thundershowers along with   the next few days. The   (IMD) on Saturday forecast light rainfall at isolated places in the state till April 6.

 Weathermen at local met office issued an alert for thundershowers along with lightning in East Champaran, West Champaran, Madhubani Sitamarhi and Sheohar in north and central Bihar over the next two days. Patna too is expected to witness isolated thundershowers between April 3 and 6.
 
 “Very strong convective clouds have developed along Nepal-Bihar border and they are entering the state,” said the duty officer at   on Saturday.
 
  Skymet too issued forecast for light rainfall as well as thunderstorm activity, particularly in northwest Bihar, over the next two days. According to the forecast, Purnia and Kishanganj in northeast Bihar are expected to witness light showers along with lightning.
 
 The upcoming thundershowers would be the third spell of Nor’wester this summer. As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, brewing a typical Nor'wester.
 
 In its weather forecast on Saturday, Skymet attributed the   and lightning to presence of several weather features in the region. “While a cyclonic circulation persists over north Bihar, a trough is extending from this system up to Chhattisgarh across Jharkhand. Not only this, another east-west trough can be seen running from north Bihar to Nagaland across Bangladesh,” said the Skymet weather report.
 
 Forecast for thundershowers notwithstanding, residents should brace for “intense” hot and dry conditions for the next couple of months as the infamous summer westerlies have claimed their territory in the region. Weathermen have claimed that dominance of dry westerly winds would push the mercury upwards and an alert for first spell of heat wave has also been sounded by the national weather agency.
 
 The IMD on Saturday issued an alert for heat wave at isolated places in northwest and south-central Bihar for the next two-three days. The Met department’s yardstick for a heat wave is a maximum reading of 40 degrees Celsius or higher, translating into 4.5 degrees or more above normal. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 40 degrees C by next weekend.
 
