SHAHJAHANPUR: A mob of women, some with young children in tow, allegedly   at a village here on Wednesday, setting fire to one of the establishment. No injuries were reported while a police force arrived at the spot and managed to pacify the crowd
 
  The incident happened at   of   After the mob attacked the liquor shop near the railway crossing at Atsalia, they allegedly set the liquor bottle stored inside on fire. The shop owners called the police and filed an FIR naming residents of the village, including some unidentified women, as the perpetrators.
  
  Police arrived at the spot half an hour after the incident and managed to pacify the crowd. The women however remained at the site and shared their grievances with mediapersons. No injuries were reported in the incident. No arrests have been made till the time of filing of this report.
  
  Later in the evening, district magistrate Karan Singh Chauhan, circle officer (city)   and district excise officer   also arrived at the spot and the liquor shops were re-opened under police security.
  
  Most of the families of Atsalia village have earning members who work as daily wage labourers. The women alleged that the men spend most of their earnings at liquor shops and that several complaints had been made to the authorities asking them to get the shops removed.
  
  Ramwati, one of the women in the crowd told TOI, “Our lives have become a living hell since these shops were opened in our locality. Our husbands spend most of their earnings on liquor and even beat us and fight with each other. When the administrator did not listen to our pleas, we decided to take action on our own. We will not allow the shops to re-open.”
  
  District excise officer Satish Chandra told TOI, “The women seem to have been incited by some locals. There were nno problems here earlier. Nobody from the area had applied to us to get the shops removed. Action will be taken against anyone involved in such violence.”
  
  Kamrul Hasan, station officer of Roza police station said, “We have registered an FIR against Naththu,Dharmendra and some unidentified women for breach of peace, illegal trespass and property damage. No arrests will be made till the investigation is completed.” 
