AURANGABAD: The highly ambitious attempt of the   to enter the list of “Top 20 Clean Cities” in the country suffered a setback as a team of Quality Council of India (QCI) expressed ‘dissatisfaction’ over the steps taken to keep the city clean. 

 The three-member team conducted a survey of various localities, including slums and tourists places, on Friday. “The team was unhappy about the upkeep of the city by the civic body, especially the poor drainage facility,” said a source at the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.
 
 It visited  , Ciodc N7, Shivaji Pulta area and   on day one of their three-day inspection visit. 
 
 In Shatabdi Nagar, the team noticed open manholes. The choked drainage lines in the area were also found to be overflowing and drainage water was flowing through internal roads, raising questions about hygiene. 
 
 In Rehamania Colony, the team members skipped inspection of the main roads and entered the internal lanes to check the status of civic amenities. Most of the drainage lines in the area open and there are leakages at several points. The team expressed the desire to raise the issue with the ward officer concerned, but the officer could not be contacted. 
 
 While the team members were passing through the Shivaji Putla road, they raised questions over a large number of hawkers occupying space along on the roadside. 
 
 In the absence of a dedicated zone for hawkers, vendors freely ply business on the roads in Aurangapura, Shahabazar, Gulmandi, TV Centre, Peer Bazar, Shahanoormiyan Dargah, Usmanpura, Gajanan Mandir, besides the pavements near the government college and hospital and the railway station. Vendors also occupy footpaths at the Jalna road, Peer Bazaar, Mukundwadi, Kranti Chowk and the Central bus stand and Cidco bus stand.
 
 The QCI team noticed poor drainage system at Kiradpura also. Open drainage line and choked lines gave a bad impression of the city which may eventually affect the ranking of the municipal corporation. 
 
 The team also visited Nawadpura and Connaught Place. 
 
 One of the team members, Shailesh Banjania, examined the documents prepared by the civic body while the other two members,   and  , conducted field visits. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, deputy municipal commissioner   could not be reached for comment. 
 
 Sources in the civic body told TOI that the authorities have mainly focused on solid waste management and neglected the drainage system. 
 
