AHMEDABAD: Heavy rains on Thursday early morning affected production of industrial units in the city as worker turnout was poor, and movement of goods affected by flooding and watelogging. According to industry estimates, units in Naroda, Vatva, Narol and Odhav industrial estates witnessed a 20% drop in production due to the torrential rain.

 “Industrial estates on outskirts of the city saw their production getting affected by at least 20%-25% due to heavy rains. Naroda, Vatva, Narol and Odhav mainly house chemical manufacturing units. The worker turnout was 30% lower on Thursday morning,” said Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI).
 
 Industry players also pointed out that dispatches of finished goods and supply of raw material was also disrupted as transportation came to a grinding halt. “Many garment manufacturing units, especially those located in areas such as Vastral and Naroda, remained shut,” said Vijay Purohit, president, Gujarat Garment Manufacturing Association (GGMA).
 
 This situation is the same in several other parts of the state. “As far as chemical industry is concerned, raw materials are yet to reach various production houses and at present they are managing with whatever surplus stock of raw materials they have,” said Jaymin Vasa, vice-president, GCCI. “If the situation remains unchanged for coming three to four days, many units will have to stop production,” he added.
 
 “MSMEs in the chemical industry are the worst affected at present in absence of raw materials. Estimates suggest that stocks to the tune of 500 to 1,000 tonne is currently stranded on the roads,” Vasa said.
 
 Industry experts said that while markets had barely begun to start operating after the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST), floods have added to their woes. 
 
 “Our exports have already declined and now the domestic market is taking a hit as raw materials haven’t reached the production units. We hope that water begins to recede soon so that businesses recover,” said Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat Dye Stuff Manufacturing Association.
 
 
