BENGALURU: The fight for 17,872.248 hectares of forest land in   has been pegged by most conservationists as a key battleground between conservation and development, with unanswered questions over withdrawal of the conservation reserve tag to the forest land in Gadag district. 

 On February 20, a meeting of the State   with chief minister Siddaramaiah, who is also chairman of the board, indefinitely put off the decision to reinstate the conservation reserve tag to the biodiversity-rich forest land. The decision by Siddaramaiah has increased skepticism among green warriors over the Congress government's stand on the issue.
 
 A source privy to the February 20 meeting said the impression garnered during the discussion, lasting one and half hours, was that a certain amount of pressure was being exerted upon the state by the mining lobby, indicating that the CM may try a piecemeal offer by giving a reserve tag to a portion of the forest, and opening another portion for mining.
 
 It is said that Kappatagudda has already been divided into four mining blocks, with three blocks merged together previously.
 
 "When the chief minister himself is the chairman of the Wildlife Board, why is he deferring declaring Kappatagudda a reserve, with even public opinion against mining licensing? There is a lot of room for speculation on this decision, over whether the mining lobby is exerting pressure on the government," said environmentalist and former member of the State Wildlife Board, Ananth Hegde Ashisara. 
 
 The Kappatagudda issue was raised by   in the recently-concluded legislature session, and a detailed reply from the forest department said the region was home to 423 different types of medicinal plants. The reply also clearly mentioned that "as per the opinions received during the public consultation meeting, most of them wanted Kappatagudda declared a conservation reserve".
 
  While neither minister for mines Vinay Kulkarni or secretary S S   responded to calls from TOI on the position of the mines department on the Kappatagudda mining lease, supposedly awarded to a private firm, mining department officials said the government is pushing for the project in order to increase its revenue from gold mining. 
 
  According to senior officials from the department, Kappatagudda's gold reserves have also sparked interest in the central mines ministry and are being pegged as a major production source to decrease the nation's dependency on import of the yellow metal. 
 
  It is said that as much as 1,000 tonnes of gold is imported each year into the Indian market, with the local market generating only 2-3 tonnes. The long-pending uncertainty surrounding the revival of Kolar Gold Fields has turned the attention on gold deposits in Kappatagudda and other prospecting locations in the state. 
 
