CHENNAI: Sanra Jacob from Bengaluru has recently taken to brewing coffee at home, preferring single estate coffee varieties, from Flying Squirrel, a start-up. “My husband is a coffee connoisseur and the one coffee he drinks every day has to be brewed at home and must belong to a single estate,” she said.

 Until recently, the south Indian filter coffee has been the traditional home-brewn concoction and the metallic filter was the equipment being sold at large. Now, with the number of well-travelled Indians and expats increasing, home brewing has extended to international varieties of coffee and coffee connoisseurs are increasingly buying imported equipment such as ‘moka pots’, ‘aeropresses’ and ‘handpressos’ to brew their own coffee at home or even on the go. Some of them have also done away with purchasing coffee powder from conventional brands, as they want to roast and grind them at home.
 
 A typical Italian moka pot would cost up to Rs. 1,500 and a Chemex for making pour over coffee could cost anywhere up to Rs. 3,600, while beans or single estate coffee would cost anywhere between Rs. 360 to Rs. 600 for 250 grams. 
 
 Home brewers, predominantly urban youth from Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata and Pune who travel abroad frequently spend more to get the right cup of coffee, officials at start-ups said.
 
 Start-ups in the space such as Flying Squirrel, Blue Tokai etc. see anywhere between 50% to 80% of their business from the home brewing community and close to 20% growth every month. “Pour over coffee – a method of making coffee from Japan is among the recently-adopted. Other ways of making coffees can be using mokapots – imported from Italy – or aeropresses from the US,” said Ashish D’Ábreo, founder, Flying Squirrel.
 
 Kunal Ross from the Indian Bean, which sells over nine varieties of coffee, says that the strength of the coffee is a deciding factor to the consumer’s choice and there is an emerging trend of users preferring beans to powder. “They would want to decide the coarseness of the powder. There are requests on our website to understand the best brewing techniques,” he said. The start-up sees 20% growth every year with 50% of the customers being home brewers.
 
 A spokesperson from Blue Tokai, a start-up that sells equipment from Japan, says that awareness about the flavour and the strength that harvesting techniques and roasting impart to the coffee makes them want to roast their own coffee. “Those who travel a lot and consume coffee on the go use aeropress whereas those at home prepare pour over coffee, “the spokesperson added.
 
 
 
