BANGALORE:   can teach   a thing or two about putting up a fight. After posting a below-par total, the visitors defended with heart to condemn the home side to a humiliating 19-run defeat ­ their ninth in 12 matches ­ to stay in the hunt for a playoff spot.

 Chasing 139 to win, RCB ­ a team in free-fall at the moment ­ limped to 119 all out at M Chinnaswamy stadium on Friday. Kings XI paceman   sparked a spectacular collapse with his incisive swing bowling, removing the home side's Big Three of Chris Gayle,   and AB de Villiers within the first five overs.
 
  
  
 Only Mandeep Singh (46; 40b, 5x4, 2x6) and Pawan Negi (21; 23b, 2x4) put up some resistance for RCB but perished trying to force the issue, much like their illustrious teammates on a pitch that proved harder for the home batsmen to play on. With half the team gone inside 11 overs, there was only going to be one winner.
 
 Earlier, asked to bat first after losing the toss, Kings XI Punjab failed to make an impact until Axar Patel took charge to take them to 1387 in 20 overs. Patel (38; 17b, 3x4, 2x6), who came in at No. 7 after skipper Glenn Maxwell's departure with the score at 785, played sensibly before smashing 19 runs ­ including a six and two fours ­ off the final over bowled by RCB's Aussie all-rounder Shane Watson.
 
 RCB's bowlers, who excelled with their discipline on the slow track, choked the visiting batsmen until Shane Watson's late largesse negated Aniket Choudhary's penultimate over wicket-maiden.
 
 Choudhary was the first to strike in the opening over of the day, dismissing Hashim Amla.The South African's opening partner Martin Guptill was soon back in the pavilion after miscuing a Sreenath Arvind delivery. After Negi sent Shaun Marsh back, Yuzvendra Chahal set about tightening the screws.
 
 Kings XI were helped by the fact that RCB wicketkeeper Kedar Jadhav missed a stumping opportunity in the leg-spinner's first over, the 10th of the innings, handing Wriddhiman Saha a reprieve. Lacking confidence behind the stumps, the youngster leaked eight byes off Chahal an over later.
 
 
