

 The French museum, the site of a recent attack by a machete-wielding man, is among the most famous museums in the world. The 2015 Theme Index and Museum Index (latest available report) states that the museum was visited by 8.7 million people, the highest for any museum in the world. It was followed by the National Museum of China (7.3 million), Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, Washington DC (6.9), Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Washington DC (6.9) and the  , London (6.8). However, in 2016 the Louvre was visited by about 7.7 million people, much lower than the number in 2015 and significantly lower than the 10 million in 2012. The falling number is attributed by many to the recent terror attacks in France.
 
 
 
 There are many world famous works of art among the over 35,000 objects exhibited in the museum. The department of painting includes every European School from the 13th century to 1848. This includes the Mona Lisa, the famous painting by Leonardo da Vinci, and ‘Liberty Leading the People’ by Eugene Delaroix, which was painted to commemorate the French Revolution. The museum’s department of near Eastern antiquities has articles like the Code of Hammurabi. The department of Greek, Etruscan, and Roman antiquities exhibits Venus de Milo, considered one of the most famous ancient Greek sculptures. Among other famous art works housed in the museum are Michelangelo’s Renaissance period sculptures.
 
 
 
 
 The Louvre   was built in 1190 under the reign of King Philippe Auguste. In 1546, Francis I had the old castle razed and began the building of a royal residence. Almost every monarch in the later years added something to the residency. The Louvre ceased to be a royal residence when Louis XIV moved his court to Versailles in 1682. The idea of converting the royal residency into an art museum came in the 18th century and the place was finally opened to the public in 1793 by the revolutionary government. The entire complex was remodelled in the 1980s and 1990s to make it more accessible for visitors.
 
 
 
 
 The museum has a satellite edition in the French town of Lens. Another branch which was supposed to be completed by late 2016 is being made on Saadiyat Island, off the coast of Abu Dhabi. Apart from this, the Louvre was among the first museums to offer virtual tours.
 
 
