NAVI MUMBAI: The Rabale police have arrested a man for allegedly abetting his wife’s suicide. The victim reportedly killed herself by hanging on the ceiling of her chawl when she was nine months’ pregnant. The incident took place on Thursday past midnight. 

 The alleged accused, Ratnadeep Hayet, is a contract worker of the   civic body’s garbage vehicle and resides in a chawl located behind Buddha Vihar in sector 1,  . 
 
 The police had registered an accidental death report after the incident. However, after the 28-year-old victim’s father lodged a complaint against Hayet that he had allegedly harassed his daughter for dowry, he was arrested.
 
 The victim’s cousin alleged, “We suspect that her   has murdered her as she was due to deliver on May 2. It was not possible for her to pull a steel drum and climb on it to hang herself. Also, he should have informed the police but he himself brought her down after she was allegedly found hanging on the ceiling.” 
 
 The cousin added that Hayet was unhappy as their first born is a girl. He had even threatened his two-year-old daughter with a knife after he came home drunk. My cousin had complained that Hayet was asking her to tell her father to sell his house in Mankhurd and give him money. The police should have registered a murder case but has instead registered a case of   of suicide. Hence, we are awaiting her post mortem report."
 
  Senior inspector Pradeep Tidar said, “We have registered a case of abetment of suicide against Hayet. The post mortem report also states that the death was due to hanging.”
 
 A civic doctor, too, clarified that the woman died due to asphyxia due to hanging by neck and that there were no other injuries on her body. “There is no need to send the viscera to the forensic lab for further analysis,” he said. 
 
 Police sub-inspector B S Karkud said, “The victim’s husband had told us that his wife had committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling using a saree. He claimed that he saw her hanging when he woke up from deep sleep at around 12.30am after he heard his two-year-old daughter’s cries when she saw her mother hanging. When the police team reached the house, Hayet had already brought her down and kept her body on the floor. We then took the body to the civic hospital in Vashi where the doctors declared her brought dead on arrival.”
 
 
