NAGPUR: Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday distributed cheques at Konsari village of Gadchiroli district to 37 persons whose lands have been acquired for Lloyds Metals and Energy Ltd’s (LMEL) iron ore processing plant.

 The company’s iron ore mines at Surjagarh Hills, over 80 kms from the venue, remained shut for want of police protection. Fadnavis assured that the government was committed towards the area’s development. The plant is expected to create 1,000 jobs with an investment of Rs 700 crore.
 
 Ore from the mines is supposed to feed the proposed processing unit at Konsari. LMEL is the only company operating an iron ore mine in this mineral rich but Naxal-hit district and is facing several difficulties. Last year Naxalites torched 80 vehicles belonging to the company. In 2013, its vice-president was murdered by them. There have been several incidents of arson and looting. There was a strong demand from local organizations that if LMEL wanted to operate the mines it should have a processing unit within the district too. Other outfits have outrightly rejected the mining project. 
 
 After company’s vehicles were burnt down in December 2016, the mining operations resumed in February under strict police protection. Since then, mining has not taken place for more 30-35 days, said sources. Often the police force deployed had to be diverted for other duties. There was already a lull after the killing of 25 CRPF personnel at Sukma in Chhattisgarh.
 
 On Friday, as Fadnavis was touring this troubled area, the police were busy in his security. This once again meant mining operations at Surjagarh were suspended. 
 
 LMEL already has a production facility in neighbouring Chandrapur district, 190 kms from the mines. The plant is run on iron ore procured from open market as the company cannot depend on Surjagarh mines that are barely operational, said sources. Having another unit in Gadchiroli may not make much business sense unless the Surjagarh are run at optimal level, said sources.
 
 LMEL’s plant at Chandrapur has an installed capacity of 1,000 tonnes per day (TPD) which is being entirely utilised. For Gadchiroli, the company has much smaller plans. There will be two units of 100 TPD each in the first phase which is expected to be ready in a year’s time. There will be a 10 MW power plant too. There are plans to add two more 100 TPD untis in the second phase along with a pelletization plant . Sources said considering power and pelletization units there may be 1000 jobs in all.
 
 Much will depend on availablity of iron ore. There has been dismal progress on the mining front so far. So far only about 1 lakh tonnes of ore has been extracted from here in place of 5 lakh tonnes that the mines could have produced, sources said. Mining is taking place in only a small part of the area allotted to the company.
 
 The mining project has been facing rough whether since operations started in 2007. It is not the Naxalites alone.  , an anti-Naxalite organization also opposed the CM’s function. The organization is against providing police protection to mining company. They said the police should instead police should be deployed for security of local people. Bhoomkal has demanded that   (CISF) should be deployed at the mines.
 
 A couple of traditional village councils in Surjagarh and Bhamragarh too have opposed the ming project. Messages were spread on social media saying the government was supporting an illegal project that has been opposed by the village councils. The mines will only displace the local people, not benefit them, they said.
 
 Janhitvadi Samiti, another local group, has demanded that the iron ore plant should be set up in Aheri, a site much closer than Konsari.
 
