KOLKATA: Two days after   police arrested three persons for threatening cricketer Md   and assaulting his caretaker  , the Jadavpur police have now decided to increase security in the locality. The cricketer and his wife had been facing certain problems in their neighbourhood for the past year.

 “There have been at least two occasions when the cricketer’s family had problems with the neighbours. While one issue was petty, the other was about comments made against the cricketer. On both occasions, the police had co-operated with Shami’s family,” said a senior official from the south suburban division. 
 
 Though the cricketer did not specifically seek any security for himself or his family, Jadavpur police have nonetheless decided to increase motorbike patrolling in the area. This was after Shami’s wife Hasin Jahan informed the media that she was feeling threatened.
 
 “We are going to increase our presence in the Katju Nagar, Bapuji Nagar and Bikramgarh areas. We are aware of a few troublemakers from the local   and adjoining areas and have asked the ARO to look into each complaint of bike racing and drinking and gambling in the open. He will also keep in touch with the cric-keter and address all his concerns,” explained the divisional officer. 
 
 The incident has prompted   to push for the proposed police station at Golf Green to control the rise in petty crime in the area.
 
 “We have asked our patrolling officers to identify men creating nuisance on the roads. When the additional OC of Jadavpur received the first call from the Shami family, he was informed that some men who had consumed alcohol were creating nuisance at their residence. If we had kept check on such incidents, the cricketer might not have undergone the traumatic experience,” said a police source.
 
 The police though will not provide any security outside the cricketer’s residence as he has not lodged any complaint fearing for his life. 
 
 Shami will be part of the India squad that will travel to   later this month. “We can assure him we are aware of the security needs and everything is being done to ensure his family has a pleasant stay here even when the cricketer is outside the country,” said an officer.
 
 
