Students were sitting in groups in their classroom at  . When they heard ‘freeze off’, they quickly turned into different characters. Some became victims and advocates of rights. It continued for more than 10 minutes and the small room became a microcosm of society.

 The impromptu session that concluded the two-day theatre and performance arts workshop conducted at the college by theatre personality and performance researcher   as part of Government of Kerala’s Walk With a Scholar project was a magnificent exploration of talents. 
 According to the students, who confess that they were in fact thinking of ‘bunking’ the second session, the workshop helped them introspect. “I was hesitant to spoil a weekend by spending it in college but this workshop that connected art and life with few words and more action was revelatory,” said Sherein Shafeek, second year degree student, Economics. 
 
 Thanks to the Walk with a Scholar project, the students have been introduced to prominent figures from socio-cultural and political field. “Our students have been interacting with intellectuals and visionaries from the society through this project. The prominent people who spoke to them include T P Shashikumar, Sebastian Paul and Jeethu Joseph. The conversations with them have been giving the students a different world view,” says assistant professor Anna Abraham Pachayil, the coordinator of the project in the college.
 
 Anand PK, second year Economics student, said the theatre workshop helped him shed inhibitions. “We never knew we had so much potential in us. The workshop gave us an insight on the importance of communication, positive thinking and we are leaving with a sense of fulfillment and achievement,” he added. 
 
 The workshop used various improvisation techniques and psychophysical (response to stimulus) methods, says Devendranath who was visibly excited about the way the students took up the workshop. “Campuses are where our future is and each one I found to be a gem. Theatre practice is the best way to nuture talents and its possibilities. Through the medium, one can connect him/her with the immediate social surroundings. And this workshop once again reinforced that current generation has immense potential and they too are responsible social beings. They are a promising bunch,” he concluded.
 
