BHUBANESWAR: Senior BJD leader and cabinet minister  's statement that there's no need to waive farm loan has invited criticism from not only the opposition, but also chief minister  . 

 Asked about Damodar's comment that farmers utilize the loan amount to marry off their daughters and to consume alcohol, Naveen said: "I don't think that is correct. We are still looking into the matter (waiving farm loan) to see what can be done."
 
 Damodar's response on Wednesday had come after Naveen said the government would consider waiving farm loan following a representation by panchayati raj institution members from Bargarh and Puri districts.
 
 The chief minister's disapproval forced Damodar to do a U-turn. Clarifying his statement, Damodar said it is the landlords who are misusing farm loan, not the real farmers. 
 
 "In Odisha, nearly 85 per cent is small or marginal farmers, who are unlikely to draw farm loan as most of them don't have land records in their names. Since they don't have adequate land, they are working as share-croppers. Generally, it is the landlords who are availing loans by producing the land records and misusing it for other purposes," Damodar said, adding that in 2010 he had written to the state government to accord official recognition to the share-croppers, which is yet to be done. The cooperation and excise minister's clarification notwithstanding, his earlier comment has triggered a row with the BJP demanding an apology for insulting the farmer community even as   (NNKS), an outfit of farmers, burnt Damodar's effigy at a number of places across the state.
 
 "His (Damodar) statement is an insult to the farming community. We demand an apology from him," BJP state chief   said. Describing Damodar's statement as unfortunate, convener of NNKS, Akshaya Kumar said the chief minister should immediately sack him for such an irresponsible comment. 
 
 "If you cannot respect the farming community, at least don't insult them," Kumar said. Damodar's statement could have come at the wrong time with the chief minister again dropping hints of cabinet reshuffle. Sources close to Naveen said at least six to seven ministers are likely to be dropped during the reshuffle which is likely to be held after the BJP's two-day national executive meet, scheduled from April 15 in the city.
 
