NAGPUR: Maintaining its tough stand on illegal hoardings, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday directed the   ( ) to impose heavy costs on repeat offenders including the politicians, parties, social workers and advertisement agencies.

 Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye also asked the civic body to take photographs of receipts of fine imposed along with illegal structures raised by erring persons so deterrent action could be taken against them if they flouted court’s orders next time.
 
 The directives came while hearing NGO Parivartan’s contempt plea (No. 256/2010) through counsels Tushar Mandlekar and   pointing out that in spite of court’s orders, gross violation of ‘Outdoor Advertising Policy 2001’ was happening and even distance between two hoardings was not being maintained.
 
 Earlier, NMC counsel   stated they had identified 21 offenders who had repeatedly erected illegal hoardings, banners and posters, despite warning and fine. He submitted the list while clarifying that police complaints were registered against 10-12 of them under Section 3 of ‘Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act 1995’ and other laws.
 
 During last hearing, NMC commissioner had informed the court that they had found 1,944 unauthorized hoardings, banners and posters in the city from January 1 last year to July 31 this year. Of them 1,937 were removed seven were on high tension posts and the agency concerned was asked to remove it. Offences were registered against 817 persons under Section 3 and a fine of Rs2.13 lakh was recovered from them. The affidavit mentioned that 86 FIRs were lodged so far and additional 76 complaints were lodged with various police stations.
 
 Earlier, Mandlekar charged the civic body with contempt, as it had registered only 86 FIRs even as 1,944 illegal structures were found. He pointed out that even in 2015, 667 such hoardings, banners and posters were found but only 54 FIRs were registered.
 
 The judges observed mere registration of FIR would not be enough to curb the menace and it was necessary to book leaders, parties, and agencies printing them. They stated all such parties and their supporters, who continue to defy its orders, would be added as respondents and issued notices.
 
 On March 4, 2010, the court had ruled that putting up any illegal advertising material would be a cognisable offence under the MPDP Act. It had also directed the officers in charge of police stations to prosecute those involved in erecting such structures. If officers failed, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) was instructed to initiate disciplinary action against them. 
 
 The ward officers of municipal corporation were also directed to bring such cases to the notice of nearest police station and also the municipal commissioner. The court had directed municipal and police commissioners to sit together and devise a long-term policy in controlling this menace. However, the both the civic and police officials failed to act.
 
