LUCKNOW: ' ' from Uttar Pradesh have become a role model for the rest of the country at the   on best practices, underway in Indore.

 Titled ' ', the event, the fourth in a series, provides a platform for health officials from across the country to exchange their best practices in public interest.
 
 'Kangaroo dads' are fathers of underweight children who use   (KMC) method to save the baby from pre-mature birth-related complications including hypothermia. KMC is a   that encourage mothers to maintain skin-toskin contact with their babies.
 
 UP went a step ahead by engaging fathers and other relatives like grandmothers in the process. The government recently set up kangaroo care lounges to popularise KMC.
 
 “The deviation led to the coining of the term Kangaroo dads,“ said Alok Kumar, mission director of National Health Mission UP, who represented the state in the national event. Kumar added that `kangaroo' fathers and mothers can replace incubators to provide a required temperature to the baby soon after birth. Technology, however, comes with the risk of burn injury in case of voltage fluctuation or short circuit.
 
 “This is surely a promising life-saving intervention,“ Kumar said.
 
 Statistics prove his point. Of the 50 lakh children born in UP every year, about 2 lakh die in the first year of life.
 
 “Half of these children can be saved with KMC. The number of lives saved will be much more if the model is implemented across India.Many states have already shown interest in our work and look forward to replicating the model,“ Kumar told TOI.
 
 According to WHO, KMC is a powerful, easy-to-use method to promote health and well-being of infants, especially those born with low birth weight (less than 2kg) or before time (before 37th week of pregnancy). It also includes early initiation of breastfeeding.
 
 As of today, there are 44 kangaroo care lounges in UP where 1,394 babies have been initiated with the help of agrimaas--volunteers who help bridge the gap between parents and the health system.
 
