PUNE: Internal probe into the alleged sexual assault on four inmates at Shivajinagar children’s home by eight older boys started on Thursday, two years after the filing of an FIR.

 “Of the eight suspects, three were produced before the magistrate on Friday,” senior inspector   of the Shivajinagar police station said.
 
 The sexual assault came to light in July 2015 after two of the survivors ran away from the children’s home. They were spotted by some activists who took them back to the home after being told about the assault. A police complaint was lodged against the eight suspects thereafter.
 
 Even though the FIR was lodged in 2015, the suspects (only three of them) were produced before the   (JJB) only in Friday. When asked about this delay,   chairperson Anita Wipat said, “It got delayed since one of the JJB members was on leave due to her wedding.”
 
 The FIR in the case stated that the survivors were sexually assaulted repeatedly at the children’s home by the eight suspects for about one year, which has been corroborated by the survivors. “The delay shows lapse on the part of both the superintendent of the children’s home and the police. The superintendent should have written to the JJB to produce the children before them as soon as possible. The police too should have done the same,” Wipat said. 
 
 When asked why the   never took any notice of the case, Wipat said, “It was not our duty to do so as the superintendent is supposed to do it or the police. The district women and child welfare officials also take quarterly reports of the observation homes, but they also didn’t focus on this matter. Now, an inquiry is being conducted to look into who are involved here (the case).”
 
 On media reports of the victims contracting AIDS, Wipat said, “We don’t know about it. But we will be conducting medical test of all the children lodged at the home.”
 
 When contacted, children’s home superintendent   refused to comment on why no letter was sent to the JJB. When asked how the accused were still being kept with the other children at the home, Gandhi said, “The capacity of the home is 100 and there are 77 children at present. Children who are in conflict with the law and children who have been picked up from railway stations, or who have no living members ready to take their responsibility, are all kept at the home. While there are caretakers and we try to keep the older children away from younger ones, we cannot do it all the time, especially when they go to drink water at night or other such occasions.”
 
 Meanwhile, senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi said the investigating officer was supposed to file the case within 24 hours of the crime being reported, which did not happen. “The chargesheet was also supposed to be filed within 90 days. But that too hasn’t happened. Now a new investigating officer is looking into the case and the investigations will be completed soon.”
 
