KOLKATA: Union human resource development minister   on Saturday made important announcements in Kolkata that will affect the fortunes of millions of students appearing in   in medicine and engineering countrywide. 

 Allaying fears of thousands of students appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test ( ) — the all-India examination for entrance to medical colleges — in regional languages,   said the vernacular question papers of the examination will be a mere translation of the question paper in English. This year, the CBSE had set different sets of questions for students appearing for the examination in different languages, with students complaining that the vernacular papers, including the one in Bengali, were much tougher than the English and Hindi papers. 
 
 The controversy over the mismatch in question papers had led to delay in the announcement of the NEET res-ults with the Madras high court ordering a stay on the declaration of results after a group of students in   filed a petition alleging discrimination.
 
 The HRD minister also set to rest speculations on the introduction of a common engineering examination on the lines of NEET from next year, clarifying that no decision had been taken yet. “We are waiting to see the final result of NEET. The One Nation One Test in Engineering is at a discussion stage now,” he said. Bengal and Tamil Nadu had opposed the proposal, cit-ing central over-reach in education, which is a state subject. The higher education secretary of Bengal had flagged dissent at a meeting in Delhi earlier this year, citing disparity in science curriculum in the Higher Secondary and NCERT syllabus, lack of clarity on reservation for students from Bengal, and the issue of question paper in regional languages. 
 
 This year’s NEET was held in 10 languages. Altogether, 56,079 candidates appeared for the examination in Bengal, of whom 40,000 took the exam in Bengali. 
 
 Immediately after the examination, state education minister Partha Chatterjee had shot off a letter to the HRD minister pointing out that Bengali students had been disadvantaged despite the Centre’s promise that there would be no bias. The HRD ministry had immediately forwarded the letter to CBSE, the examination conducting body, asking why different sets of questions had been set. In response, CBSE had cited security problems given the sheer number of candidates and the large number of languages involved if it resorted to translations.
 
 But the HRD ministry appears to have shot down CBSE’s argument. “From next year, there will be mere translation of papers so that such problems do not arise,” Javadekar assured on Saturday. he was speaking at a symposium inthe city.
 
 Sk Mehdi Hassan, a student who took NEET 2017 in Bengali and had slumped into depression after securing an all-India ranking of 88,000, welcomed Javadekar’s announcement and said he was encouraged to appear for next year’s NEET. “At least, students will now have a level-playing field and not face an unjust advantage compared to English language students,” he said. 
 
 Amiya Maity, a former teacher at  , was happy with the decision but said one problem would still have to be ironed out. “During the framing of question paper by CBSE, there are no experts from Bengal with a good knowledge of HS syllabus. As a result, state students will always be at a disadvantage,” he pointed out.
 
 But education minister Partha Chatterjee is still miffed with the Centre. “This year’s NEET fiasco left thousands of students in the lurch. Their decision will be implemented from next year. What about the Bengali-medium students who suffered this year,” he asked. “The minister’s go-slow policy on one nation one test in engineering shows that they admit that there is a major infrastructure deficiency in the country in technology colleges and that HRD is not prepared to take the test,” he added.
 
 The Bengal government had viewed it as Centre's over-reach in education that was a state subject.
 
 "Bengal feels such a policy does not go well with the consitution's unity in diversity model. We will strongly oppose the proposal since we feel it will be detremental to the future of our students and our expansion policy," Partha Chatterjee had said. The department secretary had flagged the dissent at a meeting held in Delhi earlier this year, citing the disparity in science curriculum in Higher Secondary and NCERT syllabus; lack of clarity on reservation for students from Bengal; and laguage problem.
 
 
