CHANDIGARH: As many as 80 residents of Chandigarh tried to cheat the central government's Swachh Bharat app by first dumping dirt outside their homes and uploading photos of it on the app to blame the municipal corporation.

 However, they were caught by some vigilant municipal officials who have fined the residents for littering. The challans were issued between July 1and September 16. The residents are spread across different sectors. Chandigarh municipal commissioner Baldeo   confirmed to TOI that some residents had tried to trick the app but failed in the bid.
 
 "We are creating awareness among residents who have been dumping debris in unauthorized places," he said. "We don't want to come down heavily on such people right now, but once awareness drives are over, harsher action will be taken." Chandigarh municipal commissioner said that many of the residents dumped construction waste on the service lanes behind their homes after renovation and other works and then put up pictures blaming the municipal corporation.
 
 "We compared the material in the debris and the work done in the houses and were able to identify the cul prits," Purushartha said.
 
 It all started with engineering department officials getting a complaint from the app about waste lying on the road in sector 21.
 
 When officials spoke to the complainant, they realised that he had himself dumped the waste there after installing a new gate at his home.
 
 Most of the apparently fake complaints have come from sectors 16, 18, 19 and 22."Construction waste must be loaded in a truck and dropped at any of the 23 designated spots in the city," said a senior official."These people did not want to make the effort and tried this new approach which failed."
 
 The municipal corporation had on September 4 enhanced littering charges from Rs 500 to Rs 5,500 for residential areas and Rs 10,500 for commercial areas. The move is being seen a major step towards strengthening Swach Bharat Abhiyan. Only because awareness drives are on, the corporation has invoked the old fine structure for the time being.
 
  Bittu, president of Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Committee (FOSWAC) said "More awareness drives must be carried out so that people get to know the norms before they are fined."
 
