NEW DELHI: Seeking to solve problems of parched regions through artificial rains, the Centre will start a pilot programme to study the viability of   in   area of Maharashtra this monsoon.

 The programme will be carried out by ministry of earth sciences (MoES) using two research aircraft. While one plane will be undertaking the exercise of cloud seeding, another aircraft would take samples to study its viability.
 
 The objective of this three-year pilot project is to find a long-term solution to the problem of drought. The exercise would be replicated in other water starved regions in future.
 
 Science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan spoke about the project on Tuesday, when he enlisted various other programmes planned by the MoES for the coming years.
 
 These include one to ensure weather forecast at block level across the country by 2019 so that farmers get right information on the ground in advance. Such forecast will be done through 660 district centres using Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) network.
 
 Elaborating on what the minister said, MoES secretary M Rajeevan said, said, "Solapur which falls in rain shadow area of Maharashtra has been chosen to conduct the research. We intend to take 200 samples that can help us understand how effective is the concept of cloud seeding. The programme will be carried over a period of three years." 
 
 He told TOI that the result of this pilot project would indicate whether the model can be replicated elsewhere in future. 
 
 The cloud seeding is done by releasing iodide into the atmosphere by propane flame, using jet or ground propellers. The iodide particles work as a base for water vapour and cause moisture to freeze. The water vapour in the process crystallises and falls as rains. 
 
 Many countries including China have successfully been using this method to get artificial rains for long. 
 
 The Solapur project will be carried out, using guidelines prepared by the Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Though Maharashtra had carried out cloud seeding experiments in certain parts of Ahmednagar and Beed two years ago, it could not succeed in getting desired results. 
 
 Officials noted that since those experiments were carried out in absence of moisture-laden clouds at the fag end of the monsoon season, it could not bring results.
 
