AURANGABAD: The   have registered an offence against former Maharashtra chief minister   for allegedly selling a prime plot of land belonging to the   in a questionable manner and for allegedly indulging in financial irregularities. 

 The Kherwadi police, which recently registered the case following a directive by the Bombay high court, handed over the documents to the economic offences wing for further investigation. 
 
 Assistant police inspector Vilas Rathod of the EOW, Mumbai, said, “Some headway has been made into the investigation, but details cannot be divulged at this moment.”
 
 Nilangekar, however, denied that he had indulged in any wrongdoing involving the Marathwada Mitra Mandal’s plot in Bandra, Mumbai. “Every decision in this respect was taken following all due procedures,” he told TOI on Saturday.
 
 “The FIR registered against me with the Kherwadi police is on the basis of wrong information,” he claimed.
 
 Marathwada Mitra Mandal secretary Mohan Deshmukh alleged that Nilangekar, who was removed as the Mandal president a few months ago, had sold off a 3 acre land belonging to the trust, which is worth several thousand crore of rupees, as if it was his own property.
 
 The Mandal was formed in 1965 with an aim to run student hostels and education projects among other things in Mumbai for people from Marathwada, he told reporters here. 
 
 Former chief minister S B Chavan, who hailed from Nanded in  , was the founder president and trustee of the Mandal that was allotted 11,000 square meter of land in Bandra East in 1981. 
 
 “However, later, Nilangekar was elected as the president of the trust. Instead of fulfilling the objectives of the trust, he chose to sell the land in a questionable manner, and without taking the trustees into confidence,” said Deshmukh. 
 
 The trust’s secretary alleged that Nilangekar had indulged in various financial irregularities involving the trust. “For instance, he withdrew money from the bank without permission and indulged in financial transactions. He even paid a huge amount of cash to his defunct cooperative sugar factory from the trust’s funds,” he said
 
 Deshmukh said he had made written complaint to the EOW of the Mumbai police on January 29, 2016 against the former CM. However, the police did not take cognizance of that, following which the trust moved the high court seeking directions to the police to register an offence against Nilangekar, he said. 
 
 The public prosecutor had on February 2 told the bench comprising Jusitices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi that a decision on registering an FIR would be taken and would be communicated to the petitioner within two weeks.
 
 Accordingly, the police registered an FIR against four people including Nilangekar under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
