CHANDIGARH: Young leaders and peace activists from over 25 countries across the world converged in city for the 12th edition of Global Youth Peace Festival that was hosted at   (CIHM), Sector 42, Chandigarh here on Friday. 

 The symposium laid emphasis on spreading message of One world, One Family-Vasudaiva Kutumbakam’ and asserted that they would shun war at a global level.
 
 This installment of the fest witnessed a participation of peace activists from war-torn countries of Syria, Liberia &  . 
 
 The delegates challenged the conventional notion of their countries propagated by the mainstream media by enlightening the present congregation with statistics and the concealed reality. 
 
 They were also joined by youngsters from South Africa, Mongolia, Thailand, Palestine, Philippines and Uganda. 
 
 The International delegates started the day with a visit to the famed Rock Garden. Many expressed awe at the masterpiece created out of waste by its founder,   and hoped that the spirit of resource efficiency would infuse across the globe. 
 
 The idea was pertinent to the subsequent session, Global Youth forum on Climate Change Action which included panelists from 15 countries of the world. They reiterated that the world was being polluted which has ultimately led to global warming adding to the woes of agriculturists.
 
  They exhorted the 'small is beautiful principle' and told to pursue Gandhi’s maxim, "there is enough for everybody’s need, not for everyone’s greed”. This session was held in collaboration with department of environment, forest and CREST, Chandigarh Administration. 
 
 The eve ended with presentation of ‘Global Youth ICON Awards’ to role models by Justice Surya Kant, of Punjab & Haryana High Court. 
 
 Bayartsetseg Altangerel adjudged as Miss World finalist 2016, Miss Mongolia and project manager at My Club, Mongolia was recognized for promoting sustainable action while  , director of International Youth Center, Malaysia was awarded for promoting youth leadership. 
 
 Maan Abboud, head of Revolution Youth Union, Syria was also felicitated for promoting peace and youth activism. Suryakant said, “I am delighted to see young ambassadors of peace insisting for a world free from violence and conflict. 
 
