COLVA: More than two years after the state woke up to the sensation   double murder, South Goa sessions court, on Wednesday, sentenced  , 27, to undergo life imprisonment on charges of killing her mother-in-law and sister-in-law after administering them with stupefying drugs. The case was based on the testimony of another accused in the case, who turned approved.
 
  On January 30, 2015, Pratima, the prime accused, brutally murdered her mother-in-law  , 59, and sister-in-law Neha Naik, 29, with the help of her brother-in-law Abhijit Korgaonkar, who later turned approver in case.
  
  Korgaonkar’s deposition against the accused fortified the prosecution’s case. His evidence was corroborated by the report from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Bangalore that found the presence of the sedative Lorazepam in the victim’s food.
  
  The family drama that culminated in dual murders was rooted in the accused’s frustration with the curbs imposed on her freedom by her mother-in-law and her greed for the victims gold ornaments, which she stole after committing the crime.
  
  Initially, the accused misled the police, concocting a tale of robbers entering the flat and killing her relatives, but inconsistency in her statements aroused their suspicion.
  
  In his 99 page order, Judge Desmond D’Costa observed that the prosecution proved that Usha and Neha’s deaths were homicidal, due to strangulation. The court held that the evidence of the state approver (Korgaonkar) proved to be truthful regarding receiving calls from the accused during the hours of the morning of January 31, 2015 and that all his evidence corroborated in all material aspects with other evidence on record.
  
  On the manner in which the accused executed the plan, the court held that the using of low to medium force to kill the duo would be possible since they had been sedated with a powder of Lorazepam. According to Dr Avinash Poojari there was a single ligature mark on Usha’s neck, which brought out the absence of a struggle. This was because she was probably sedated, the court opined.
  
  Noting how   suggested that robbers had committed the crime, the court said that the prosecution proved that the accused wounded herself in stomach region to mislead the investigating machinery and suggest the involvement of outsiders in the incident.
  
  Besides murder, the accused was also sentenced on charges of theft and administering stupefying drugs.
  
  For murder, the court sentenced the accused to life imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 25,000. For theft, Pratima was sentenced to three years imprisonment and fined Rs 10,000, and for administering stupefying drugs, simple imprisonment for a period of three years and fine of Rs 10,000.
  
  If the fine amounts are deposited, they will be paid as compensation Usha’s sons, Siddarth Naik and Pravin Naik.
