RAJKOT: The police in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s hometown Rajkot are finding themselves in an extremely uncomfortable position with Patidars putting all their might behind the family of   and forcing an FIR against unknown cops for murder. 

 The situation has arisen just few days before the high-profile Vibrant Gujarat summit in Gandhinagar and more significantly when Patidars are gearing up for grand show at Kagvad village where the temple of their community goddess will be dedicated to the people. Sources said that Patidars are in no mood to take the death of their community member “at the hands of police” lightly. The Patels are already on a warpath with the state government over reservation issue and the quota stir leader   is all set to make a re-entry into the state on January 17. 
 
 TOI has reliably learnt that several top officers were reluctant to oversee the probe in this case. On one hand, delaying the probe or an attempted cover-up would once again invite severe wrath from Patidars, and on the other, any finding that the deaths of Prakash and 19-year-old Shaktisinh Zala were extra-judicial killings would put their higher ups in a soup. Additional commissioner of police Deepak Bhatt had hurriedly called a press conference on January 2 to make public the details of how the duo was killed in a bloody fight among five persons over looted Rs 5,700 cash. In fact, this was their second loot attempt in just few hours in the night after the first person targeted did not have any money, as per police. 
 
 Interestingly, it remains a mystery who the “unidentified” person robbed by the five on January 1 night was. Police arrested Yuvrajsinh Zala, Kadar Malek and   from the spot then and immediately booked Yuvrajsinh for killing Lunagariya and the other two for the murder of Zala.
 
 On first day, police could not tell the location of the alleged incident. Moreover, none among Yuvrajsinh, Kadar and Parmar, received any injuries in the fight. Had they been injured, the police as per rules, would have taken them to the hospital. 
 
 Also, Lunagariya and Zala had injuries on their sole, which sources said was unlikely if he had fought with his own gang members. Later, Lunagariya’s father Devraj also noticed some unusual injury marks on his son’ body in the post-mortem room.
 
