HYDERABAD: Nearly 10,000 bank officials across the city who have been working round-the-clock to help people get new notes post-demonetisation are yet to be paid for the overtime duty.

 According to service rules, any bank employee who does overtime duty should be paid 50 per cent of their basic at the end of every month. They were paid for the overtime duty only once, which was two days after demonetisation. However, for the last two months, the employees said they have not been paid the overtime dues along with their salaries.
 
 “We have given several representations to the bank managements but there has been no response. It is high time the staff who have been working 24/7 since demonetisation are paid their dues,” Venakata Ramaiah, generally secretary of  , told TOI. However, since it is a case of overtime spread over nearly 70 days, the Bankers Association’s approval is needed for the banks to pay the overtime dues. The issue is being discussed in an all India level conference of bank employees being currently held in Kolkata, he added.
 
 According to sources, millions of currency notes are still being counted in the banks every day, while new currency has to be loaded in ATMs and distributed through checks. “There is no time for a break, except a brief lunch hour and the pressure is gruelling,” sand one employee. The sources said at an average, each employee is putting in at least 30 to 40 hours per week as overtime duty. It is estimated that city has about 10,000 bank employees while the rest of   have about 35,000 and 50,000 employees respectively.
 
 Bank employees say that despite long working hours, leaves not being sanctioned and high stress levels, they continue to draw the ire of customers in the banks and at ATMs. “The life of bank employees has become a nightmare in the last three months,” K Sadasiva, employee of a public sector bank, said.
 
 At the top of those bank employees feeling the pressure are cashiers. This is because as per bank rules, if a cashier fails to tally the cash collected with the amount recorded, the balance has to be borne by him or her. Cashiers also have to pay from their pocket if they fail to detect a fake currency note.
 
