Nagpur:  , who has been fighting against the Sardar Sarvovar dam on   river in Gujarat since 32 years with little success, has now started a campaign against national river linking and waterways project.

 Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, Patkar said the river linking and commercial waterways plan on which the government proposes to spend over Rs20,000 crore was nothing but a capitalist dream to take over rivers depriving common people of their livelihood. “Rivers are divine entities with people’s sentiments attached as they depend on them for livelihood. “The   government wants to usurp control of them and benefit a handful of pet capitalists without any consideration of environmental damage,” she said.
 
 Commercial exploitation of rivers for establishing waterways would deprive common people of their rights, Patkar asserted. Slamming Sadguru Jaggi Vasudev, who is campaigning for river liking project, and calling him a ‘big fraud’ she hoped Union water resources minister   would hold extensive dialogue with environmentalists and human rights activists on the issue.
 
 On Prime Minister’s recent ‘dedication to nation’ of Sardar Sarovar dam on his birthday, Patkar described it as flop show. “We totally reject it as the dedication makes no sense when no one has benefited from the dam and thousands of oustees remain to be rehabilitated or paid compensation of Rs 60 lakh per family fixed by the Supreme Court,” the anti-dam leader asserted. She also accused media of blacking out protests and detention of protesting tribals and displaced persons.
 
 Patkar also said Maharashtra, which invested over Rs 3000 crore in Narmada dam project as also Madhya Pradesh where hundreds of villages were submerged, have not gained a penny from it. The promised electricity to   is not yet delivered while MP farmers are suffering as Narmada waters were diverted to Gujarat to fill up the dam. She said 37 districts in MP and 17 in Maharashtra were facing drought. The state was now seeking a Rs 1800 crore compensation from Gujarat, she said.
 
 She said the 13-metre-high dam had just blocked the water submerging hundreds of villages but till date no farmer had benefited by way of irrigation as the micro-canal network was not created. She said goalposts were shifted and the water was now being diverted to industries and cities. In October, an investment meet is scheduled in Gujarat to showcase the dam, she added.
 
 “At least Modi and BJP should have shown some reverence and protected some 382 Hindu temples that got submerged in the dam waters,” she remarked. “We will not give up our fight,” she added.
 
