SURAT: A 12-year-old girl died and two others suffered severe injuries when a speeding car dragged the motorcycle they were riding on to over one and half kilometre near Uchhal taluka of Tapi district on Monday. The two seriously injured were admitted to a hospital in Surat. 

 Police arrested Sanjay Sharma, 49, driver of the car and seized his vehicle. Alert highway patrolling official Sunil Ramchandra ensured the accused was nabbed at Mandal toll plaza.
 
 The deceased was identified as Avadhi Rawat. She had suffered multiple injuries all over her body. Her uncle Pragnesh Rawat and grandmother Hansa Rawat are in a critical condition. They were initially admitted to a hospital in Vyara and then shifted to a private hospital in Surat. The accident victims are residents of Godhra. Hansa is mother-in-law of S K Charel, police sub-inspector of Uchhal police station, Pragnesh is the PSI’s brother-in-law while Avadhi is daughter of another brother-in-law of the police officer.
 
 Sharma, driver of an owner of an industry in Palsana, was coming from Uchhal and going toward Vyara. Sunil, who was on duty, noticed the car going at a high speed with a man stuck underneath. The man was alive and shouting for help. Sunil tried to stop the speeding car but failed. 
 
 Sunil and his driver chased the car in their vehicle and found the injured man lying on road after they had crossed   office. Pragnesh informed them that the car had hit them and its driver was trying to escape. Sunil alerted Mandal toll plaza. Sunil then found injured Avadhi on road near Songadh Parotha House. An 108 ambulance took the injured to the hospital.
 
 Investigations revealed that the car first hit the motorcycle on which Pragnesh was going to drop his mother and Avadhi. The car hit the motorcycle near Pankhri village service road and dragged them along. Sharma did not stop the car and in an attempt to escape, continued driving.   fell off on road after being dragged some distance on the motorcycle while Pragnesh and Avadhi were still stuck underneath the four-wheeler. Later Pragnesh fell off and then the girl after they being dragged for over one and half kilometre on the road. 
 
 “The accused has been arrested and our investigations begun,” said S M Sadhu,  , Uchhal.
 
