Mysuru: The Government Higher Primary School at   village has become the first state-run school in the district to use a   for recording students’ attendance.

 The ‘Smart Attendance’ mobile   was launched on Saturday by the scion of the erstwhile   Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar. The app has been developed by Genius Lead, United Kingdom-based software company, which was founded by Deepak Roy, a Mysurean and one-time resident of Hale Kesare village. 
 
 Pointing out that he had been able to realise his dreams by following his passion, Roy said, “I was good at computer science since my childhood. I worked without a salary, on my laptop for one year at my first job. I did it because I did not want to lose the opportunity of working at a good software company. I just followed my goal and improved my skills.”
 
 Highlighting the environmental benefits of using an app for attendance in lieu of registers, Roy said, “Not only will the app ease the process of taking attendance, but it will also reduce use of paper at schools. If about 4,000 schools adopt this app, then more than ten trees can be saved from felling in a year. If all schools in the state adopt this technology, then more than 2,000 trees will be saved from the axe.”
 
 Roy subsequently proceeded to distribute the ‘Smart Attendance’ ID cards to all students of the school.
 
 St Philomena’s College chose the occasion to announce the academic adoption of the Hale Kesare school. The move will see teachers from the college visiting the school three days a week, and teaching the students science, mathematics and English. Students of the   will also be provided access to the laboratories at the college.
 
 Episcopal Vicar for education at St Philomena’s College Leslie Moras said, “The number of students opting for government schools is dwindling for reasons known to all of us. It’s high time the society played an important role in improving these schools. Philanthropists and other institutions should join hands with the government to achieve this end.”
 
 In a bid to bolster the academic potential of government schools in its vicinity, St Philomena’s College adopts them to supplement the children’s knowledge. “Deepak, an alumnus of St Philomena’s College, has come forward to supply technology to record the attendance of the students. This cloud-based innovation will help upgrade the standards of government-run schools,” Moras added.
 
 Block education officer (BEO) Vivekananda, St Philomena’s College administrator Marie Joseph, the college principal Krishne Gowda and the government school’s headmaster Somashekar were among those present at the launch of the new system.
 
 
