PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister of the Union territory of Puducherry, V  , on Saturday said his government had sought legal opinion on filing a defamation suit against Lt governor Kiran Bedi for holding him, health minister Malladi Krishna Rao and chief secretary Manoj Parida responsible for the reported corruption in the postgraduate medical admissions in private institutions in Puducherry.

 Speaking to reporters, Narayanasamy said legal opinion was also sought on registering a criminal case against Bedi on charges of instigating officials, who were booked by the   on charges of corruption in PG medical admission, to give ‘false statement’ against him, his cabinet colleagues and chief secretary.
 
 Narayanasamy said legal opinion will also be sought to file defamation suits against the media houses that carried Bedi’s statement accusing the government of corrupt practices in medical admission. “Instigating the officials (booked by the CBI) to give false statements against the government is a criminal offence. We have sought legal opinion for filing a defamation suit against her (Bedi) and register a case against her. We have also sought opinion to file defamation suits against the media houses that carried her statement (against the government),” said Narayanasamy.
 
 Narayanasamy questioned the rationale of Bedi’s charge against the government when the CBI has filed a case and launched an inquiry into the alleged corrupt practices. 
 
 Slamming Bedi for acting like a ‘BJP agent’, Narayanasamy questioned who gave her the authority to interfere with the counselling process of centralized admission committee (Centac) and issue orders to ‘admit students against the guidelines set by the Medical Council of India, Union health and family welfare ministry and the Supreme Court’.
 
 “She (Bedi) is acting like a   agent fulfilling the hidden agenda of the BJP government in the Centre, which has been targeting the States governed by a party other than BJP or its allies. Above all, she is still behaving like a police chief issuing orders to the subordinates. She is not qualified to occupy the post of a lt governor. We have briefed the Prime Minister and ministers concerned that an incompetent person has been appointed as lt governor of Puducherry,” Narayanasamy said.
 
 Bedi, while reacting to the chief minister’s outburst wondered why Narayanasamy was threatening her and the media for doing their duty. “I am finding it strange that a constitutional position of an   is being threatened because CBI has registered a FIR and named 6 senior officers of Puducherry government as prime accused. Instead of calling for an explanation from his chief secretary as to why this happened the chief minister is threatening lt governor and also the media for doing the duty,” she said.
 
