A day after filmmaker  , president of the Kannada Film Directors' Association (KANFIDA), threatened that the body would boycott the upcoming Bengaluru International Film Festival ( ) headed by  , the Chairman of the   that conducts the festival, owing to a series of issues, representatives from the government, Chalanachitra Academy and   met to solve the stalemate. KANFIDA has raised many issues, notably clarity on a film policy committee, film festival committee and the Puttana Kanagal Award committee and subsidies to Kannada films. Insiders privy to the development, though, say that there is more to it than meets the eye. 

 
 Rajendra Singh Babu claims, that barring the issue about passes to the event, nothing else was under his control and, hence, required government intervention. 'There are some small issues that need to be sorted out, for which we have called for a meeting. The larger problems, like, for instance, the Puttana Kanagal Award have to be looked at by the government,' he says. 
 Ramesh, though, begs to differ. 'He is, unfortunately, lying. For instance, take the issue of the Puttana Kanagal Award, what is the criteria in selecting the recipient of the award? Puttana was a director and the award has been instituted to felicitate a filmmaker. This is an issue that Rajendra Singh Babu himself has brought up in the past when actor TN Balakrishna was awarded the recognition. As the chairman of the Chalanachitra Academy, shouldn't he at least keep us informed about the selection process, including vote data? Why isn't he doing that? Also, with regard to the subsidies to Kannada cinema, he is responsible in terminating the clause that requires directors and cinematographers to sign off on documentation that proves that a film has been made entirely in Karnataka to ensure its eligibility for subsidy.' 
 
 
 The bigger issue, though, adds Ramesh, is that not enough is being done to promote Kannada cinema. 'There are a sum total of 14 films, 12 of which are in competition in the Kannada category, one in the Indian and one in the Asian category. What are they doing to promote our cinema? The focus, right now, is on pushing mainstream films into the fest to ensure that big stars attend it, thereby increasing the visibility of the event. So you have films like Kotigobba 2, Mungaru Male 2, Jaggu Dada, Shivalinga and Doddamane Huduga as part of the fest. In fact, one of the films in competition this time around, Actor, was premiered at BIFFES last year. How did that happen?' asks Ramesh.
 Where are the free passes?
 The director's association has to understand that Biffes has delegate registrations at Rs 600 per person, and Rs 300 per pass for film professionals, film society members, students, etc. in conducting the event at a single venue multiplex with smaller halls, our seating capacity at any given point has reduced drastically. There is no way that we can provide free passes to all members. - SV Rajendra Singh Babu
 
 Babu has been insisting on differential pricing in the run-up to the event, starting at `600, then Rs 300 and now `100 per pass for KANFIDA members. Every year we have been enjoying free passes. My question is, why is he charging? Does he have a target to make profit on an event that the government is paying for? - MS Ramesh
 
 
 
