KOCHI: Defying the `shame' and `submission' stereotype of women who have  , the popular Malayalam actor who was allegedly   in a moving car was back to work on Saturday, just seven days after the horrendous incident.

 She walked into the sets of the movie 'Adam' at Fort Kochi, determined that she wins the mind game and overcomes an image trap. The first scene she did on Saturday was a song sequence where she gets out of a car in front of a house. She and  , along with Maniyan Pillai Raju, arrive in a SUV . The actor is playing the role of Shwetha, Prithviraj's co-sister.
 
 “It was a totally professional approach on her part. She just slipped into her character the moment the director said `action'. She was on the sets from 11am to 2 pm,“ a so urce said. It was not just the cast and crew of `Adam' who were all praise for the actor. Appreciation for her courage came from various quarters.
 
 “She has taken a stand come what may to her image.This is important. It is a taboo-breaking exercise,“ noted psychiatrist CJ John said.
 
 Reacting to the speed with which the actor was back at work, well-known feminist and social critic J Devika put things in perspective: “In fact those denying a woman her livelihood are committing the worst crime than even raping her,“ she said. John explained that when such cases get reported the fo cus was often not on the crime or the brutality of the crime.
 
 “The entire attention and curiosity is on the victim or survivor. This deviant attitude of society imposes a barrier for the survivors,“ he said. “More women will come out to report abuse and rape if they can break societal barriers,“ he added.
 
 Expressing happiness over the actor's decision to get back to work, activist K Ajitha said she is a model for others to emulate.“She has given a message to the perpetrators of the crime that she will not be cowed down,“ Ajitha said. “The focus should be on the violence committed against an individual. The attention should be on the criminals. Instead society's curiosity shifts to the survivor,“ Ajitha elaborated, adding that it would act as a deterrent from reporting such cases. “Out of fear of character assassination many women hesitate to fight for justice.“
 
 Last but not least, actor Prithviraj too was all praise for his co-star. The actor has made a statement “that will echo through time, space and gender...that no one or no incident has control over your life but YOU!...“ he posted on Facebook. 
 
