

 
 For 13 years I have been fighting cases to protect consumer rights. When RTI Act came in 2005, it turned out to be a supplementing tool by seeking information to substantiate my cases. Now I’m regularly filing applications against government agencies and departments on issues where the common man has been cheated.
 
 
 
 The Sajag Nagrik Manch, Pune, which is working for protecting citizens’ rights and spreading awareness about RTI for a decade, every year honours one citizen for effective use of RTI. The selection process was carried out by an independent panel consisting of major general (retd) Sudhir Jathar, founder of Nagrik Chetna Manch, and veteran social worker Vishwambhar Chaudhari. I received the award from ex-IAS officer Avinash Dharmadhikari, founder of Chanakya Mandal, Pune, which develops professionals with national character.
 
 
 
 Though all RTI applications were effective, the best was when   (CIC), Delhi, published a book ‘RTI Yashogatha' on November 7, 2016. My RTI stories published by TOI for inclusion of date of birth on Aadhar cards were selected and published in the book. The book was released by the Union home minister.
 
 
 
 Yes. RTI has unearthed several scams throughout the country, otherwise it was almost impossible to expose corruption. Officials have to always keep in mind regarding probable RTI queries so they now tend to take the right decisions. 
 
 
 
 I feel bureaucrats have untold impact of British regime on them. They work with old mentality of considering citizens as slaves. They behave like kings and expect protection of sovereign immunity of every action. I had horrible experiences of my applications being misplaced and information being delayed by almost all departments. This was only for the fear of being exposed.
 
 
 
 RTO and forest departments. There is huge corruption in RTO offices. Its officers refused my RTI applications and letters and misplaced them to delay information. I will not comment as these matters are sub judice before SIC & State Consumer Commission. Even forest department is no better in handling RTI. Surprisingly, police, MPCB & railways are far better than in dealing such applications.
 
 
 
 Officials are becoming fearless and more adamant due to inordinate delay involved in deciding RTI appeals and complaints. It is also due to transfer of officials concerned and retirement. Citizens too lose interest once application is delayed, thus defeating the purpose.
 
  
 
  Yes, especially when they want to hide corruption and irregularities. Officials are not ready to digest the post RTI regime changes and therefore tend to handle applications with negative mentality. They try to find out ways for not providing proper and complete information or avoid and delay information to people. Officials consider pride in the skill of denying information.
 
 
 
 No, but I have been humiliated and been through unpleasant situations in RTO offices. I am in the process of taking a legal course.
 
 
 
 RTI is the most powerful and effective tool given to citizens. I request people to use RTI with full responsibility and take it to logical end to benefit society at large. Don’t do it just to be in the media limelight.
 
