AURANGABAD: The state   has announced that they   paid for the seat acceptance charges would be returned only this year as one-time measure.

 The state CET cell has received applications for refund of seat acceptance charges by candidates who have not reported to institute during the   (CAP) and not taken admission on allotted seat.
 
 The decision is applicable to candidates who reported to respective   (ARC) and paid the seat acceptance charges, but did not report to the allotted institute and also did not confirm admission by paying balance fees for various professional courses.
 
 “Considering the lack of awareness among the candidates about the CAP, as it was implemented for the first time in its new form during academic year 2016-17, the Admission Regulating Authority has considered such requests sympathetically and has decided to refund the amount after deducting processing charges and other expenses incurred in refunding this amount,” Chandrashekhar Oak, State CET cell commissioner said.
 
 Candidates will get desired refund after complete reconciliation of the accounts, finalization of method of refund and may prolong upto the end of financial year CET cell, has said. 
 
 Arguing that the admission rules do not have any provision for refund in the case, it has also been made it clear that no such refund would be made from the CAP for next year. Rs 5,000 are charged towards seat acceptance charges.
 
 Educational counsellor Vivek Velankar welcomed the move. It makes no sense to waste the seat for professional courses for which stiff competition is observed ever year in reputed colleges, he said.
 
 Velankar said students must be made aware of the non-refund of seat acceptance charges in aforesaid cases. The best way is to undertake declaration from students that their seat acceptance charges would be forfeited in case they waste the seat, he said. 
 
 A section of colleges, however, dubbed the decision as uncalled for. “Students opt out of CAP only under inevitable circumstances and therefore must not be subjected to any coercive action. It is wrong to deprive them of the seat acceptance charges,” said Ulhas Shiurkar, principal of Deogiri Institute of Engineering and Management here.
 
 Another college principal accused the state CET cell for taking unilateral stands in the matter of CAP without consulting colleges. “The state CET cell should consult colleges in every matter related to CAP. While it remains to be seen whether it is right or wrong to deny seat acceptance charges, we oppose the autocratic functioning of CET cell authorities,” he said.
 
