LUCKNOW: It was the forte of Lalu, Mulayam and Mayawati. But this time in UP,   has done some  , working on caste lines as is evident in its selection of candidates and choice of rally spots. The party has set eyes on the huge vote banks—from non-Yadav OBCs to non-Jatav dalits and groups like Sainis and Jats in western UP. The   formula is in place in a bid to win the mother of all elections. 

 The party won 2014 parliament elections by sweeping, along with its allies, 73 seats out of 80 in the state and now in the Assembly elections, it has not taken chance, especially when it aims to end is 15-year “vanvaas” (exile) in the state. BJP is well aware that defeat in UP will hamper its prospects in 2019 polls.
 
 So, while on one hand, the party is making bid stoke the communal sentiment by raking up issues like Kasab and ‘kabristan–shamshan’, it is also experimenting with the Kalyan Singh formula of social engineering by giving adequate representation to OBCs and the MBCs in the ticket distribution along with the upper castes.
 
  It was under Kalyan Singh, most powerful face of the BJP from the Lodh backward community in the early 90s, when it first came to power winning 221 out of the 425 UP seats. The Kalyan Singh formula was so strong that despite SP and the BSP coming together in 1993, BJP won 177 seats. Of course, Ram temple issue was also the major factor but the backward vote contributed no less.
 
 Kalyan Singh may be the present governor of Rajasthan but in many constituencies where Lodh candidates are contesting, BJP candidates are seeking votes in his name.
 
 Even within the BJP and outside, Kalyan Singh is credited with turning the elitist party into a truly democratic one by taking it from urban areas to rural and from being a Brahmin–Bania party to one that represents the weaker and backward castes. No wonder, the party has given tickets to 128 non-Yadav OBCs this time.
 
 Having started his political career in 1967 with the Jansangh, it was Kalyan Singh from a economically weaker section of Atrauli village in Aligarh district who toured the state extensively and identified most backwards castes like Prajapati, Shakya, Rajbhar and Kushwaha and gave them positions in the organisation as party’s state president and then as chief minister. 
 
 He also appointed Mastram and Gulabo Devi from the Dhobi caste as ministers in his cabinet. Gorakh Prasad Nishad, Ram Prasad Kamal and Ram Chand Valmiki were other members from the SC castes, placed in the organization and the government.
 
 Like SP patriarch  , who cultivated himself as the undisputed leader of the Yadavs, Kalyan challenged him by uniting Lodhs. It is said that Lodhs have strong presence ranging from 10,000 to 1.25 lakh in 160 constituencies and this election being fought on Kalyan formula, his castemen are likely to support the BJP strongly.
 
 In order to expand BJP support among the OBCs , the party has also tied up with SBSP, a party of Rajbhars (OBCs) in the eastern UP while it already has another fledgling outfit – Apna Dal of Kurmis (also OBC) -- as alliance partners. Rajbhars are in sizeable number in several assembly constituencies in eastern Uttar Pradesh.
 
 With majority of Brahmins, Rajputs and Banias failing to get much in the 15-year regime of SP and BSP already flocking to the BJP and the Kalyan formula drawing the OBCs, the outcome of the elections will tell whether or not this formula has worked. 
 
