Nagpur/Chandrapur: Even as efforts have been launched to capture the problem tigress of Shivni, the state’s chief wildlife warden ( ) Shree Bhagwan on Monday issued orders to shoot the carnivore. The orders were issued under powers vested in him through Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. 

 According to sources, CWLW gave a green signal late evening after a committee headed by Tadoba field director and six other local members including officials concerned, NGOs and a sarpanch sought formal permission to shoot the tigress. The committee was set up as per   protocol.
 
 Brahmapuri deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Ashish Thakre said, “We have identified the animal from stripe pattern obtained from latest camera trap images, spot verifications and abnormal behaviour of the animal turning to human habitations.”
 
 “It is a tigress and is involved in two of the three human kills in Shivni area and one that had injured two women in Sindewahi range since January 8,” he added.
 
 The decision seems to have been taken under political pressure in view of forthcoming zilla parishad elections in Chandrapur. Brahmapuri Congress MLA Vijay Waddettiwar had raised the issue only a day before.
 
 Wildlife experts said this meant there was another tiger involved in attacks. Of the five attacks, three resulted in human fatality and two injuries. The incidents occurred in   and Sindewahi range. “There is every possibility that a wrong tiger might get killed,” they said.
 
 They told TOI one of the primary objectives of wildlife management was to regularly monitor animal populations. “It is difficult to understand why a tiger reserve staff is unable to carry out such monitoring,” they said.
 
 Though joint operations, marred by failures, by around 300 personnel from Brahmapuri and Tadoba’s buffer to capture the tigress are in progress, forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar’s warning on Monday to take action against officers for failing to curb the tiger menace seems to have prompted the decision to authorise shooting the animal.
 
 A top forest official said, “It is unfortunate but the carnivore is turning towards human settlements. Even if you capture it, you are going to jail it for life. Sometimes we need to take harsh decisions to protect species as a whole.”
 
 According to officials the conflict area comprises 10 villages in Shivni and Sindewahi ranges. As many as five cages and more than 30 camera traps have been deployed to track tigress movement.
 
 Six teams of STPF and forest personnel have also been deployed. Two are equipped with tranquillizing guns and shooters. “On Monday, the tigress shifted to buffer area. We will observe whether it enters the core area and settles down before taking a final call,” a senior official said.
 
 
