Chennai: The state government will extend the mass vaccination drive against measles and rubella by two weeks as one in four children of the target of 1.8 crore refused to take the vaccine. February 28 was the deadline.

 The move comes in the wake of officials facing resistance from a section of parents over getting their children vaccinated. Till Friday, the programme covered close to 75 lakh children. “According to our initial schedule, we should have vaccinated close to a crore children by now,” said director of public health K Kolandaswamy.
 
 The drive, launched in the beginning of this month, is meant for children between 9 months and 15 years. 
 
 Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Puducherry and Lakshadweep are part of the first phase of the immunisation drive by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 While initially, the camps were held in schools, anganwadi centres and health sub-centers, the vaccine will now be administered in government hospitals and primary health centres too. 
 
 Doctors are also going beyond supervising and administering the vaccine to holding parent-teacher meetings on campuses. “We can’t force them to take the vaccine. The only thing we can do is educate them,” said Kolandaswamy. Initially, the awareness campaign was limited to just distributing pamphlets in schools.
 
 In mid-February, the directorate of public health had filed a complaint with the state medical council against a doctor and moved the child rights commission against three others for spreading misleading messages on the ongoing drive. They also filed a complaint with the state cybercrime unit to track people who post “rumours” on social media, which the health department believes has slowed down the programme. 
 
 They say most of the parents who are hesitant are scared of side-effects, including death. “There were messages that said students had fainted and died after taking the vaccine. All of them were untrue,” said Kolandaswamy. 
 
 A section of parents have also questioned the need to take the vaccine. Officials say all their queries will be answered by the staff handling the 104 helpline. Last year, the state saw around 500 cases of measles – the lowest in 30 years. Through this programme officials hope to completely wipe out the virus from the community.
 
 Experts say more than two lakh children in India and at least 2,000 in TN are born deaf, blind, or with heart or brain damage every year due to the rubella syndrome. Officials say at least 40-50% of the congenital infections can be checked by the vaccines. 
 
 
