NEW DELHI: On the streets of Delhi,   developed with Khari Boli to create a distinctive style, different from the highly poetic Rekhta dialect of Urdu. It was the name of this dialect that businessman Sanjiv Saraf used when he started his Urdu website,  , “to promote and disseminate Urdu literature, especially Urdu poetry, to an audience beyond those conversant with the Urdu script.” It is this attempt that has seen two years of the  ,  .

 The three-day festival, which concludes on Sunday, aims at creating awareness and appreciation of Urdu. The purpose of the festival is to “celebrate the multi-faceted nature of Urdu – its beauty and versatility.” The festival is exploring different elements of the language through poetry, prose, drama, art, cinema and popular culture and is hosting performances, recitations, mushairas, panel discussions, debates, film screenings and exhibitions featuring leading writers, poets and artistes from India and elsewhere. (See graphic)
 
 In its third edition, the festival also includes an Urdu fair, Urdu Bazaar, and an Awadhi cuisine food festival called Aiwan-e-Zaiqa. The Urdu Bazaar will showcase books, posters, wood calligraphy, quirky notebooks and other items which people can use to adorn the walls of their homes. The food festival has Kashmiri, Awadhi, Hyderabadi, Mughlai and Sindhi cuisine, along with the finest selection of popular street food from the Walled City.
 
 On Saturday, poet Gulzar proved to be a big draw when he spoke at a session, “Hum Sooratgar Kuch Khwaabon Ke”. He was in conversation with famous Urdu and Hindi screen writer Javed Siddiqui. Discussing the poetry of Mir Taqi Mir and  , he said: “Poetry is not about personal pain or tragedy. It should echo the society’s grief. A social consciousness should be reflected in poetry,” he said, lamenting that poetry has failed to bring about the changes in society that poets like Mir and Ghalib dreamt about.
 
 At another session, Munshi Premchand’s grandson, Alok Rai, spoke about the man and his works and how he chose to write in a language that could reach the masses. Author and former JNU professor Manager Pandey also participated in the discussion. 
 
 Captain Manoj Tyagi, an Urdu enthusiast, believes that since entry is free, it provides an opportunity for many to know the language and realize that they “use so many Urdu words in their daily conversations”.
 
 Shiraz Husain of the highly popular Khwaab Tanha Collective -- an organisation that uses graphic designing to create postcards and posters to disseminate information about Urdu poets and their works -- is excited to be a part of the festival this year. “My sole purpose is not to sell posters, diaries and graphic bags but to make the language accessible to people who know about these poets and want to know more about their work by making it visibly appealing, taaki zubaan justajoo badh jaaye,” he says.
 
 Another kiosk at the event that’s popular is the one selling items by Ishq Urdu, who are involved in designing chic merchandises like posters, notebooks, bags and other items. Founder Nasheet Shadani believes the festival is the best place to “reach out to contemporary readers”.
 
 “Rekhta is a movement to preserve and promote the rich literary and   of Urdu and Jashn-e-Rekhta is an extension of the same commitment to reclaim our rich heritage,” says Sanjiv Saraf.
 
 
