AHMEDABAD: A 14-year-old girl in   is oblivious to the world around her ­ but not to the pain she goes through 24x7. She can't hold her stool back as she has been grievously violated ­ she was raped and subjected to unnatural sex, probably several times ­ and thus keeps `leaking.' Adding to this, the fact that she is learning impaired, she is ruthlessly shuttled from one agency to another as nobody's seems willing to take custody of this daughter.

 On Wednesday , 22 days after she was first found outside  , city police registered a complaint for rape and unnatural sex against unidentified persons. Her physical check-up at VS Hospital on January 14 revealed she was sexually violated.
 
 Mahnoor Saiyad, 29, who saw the girl outside the hospital on December 30, not only tended to her and gave her clothes but also became the complainant in the case on January 19, after getting to know her plight from VS Hospital.
 
 Childline officials said this it is one of the most heart-wrenching cases -not only because it throws light on the plight of the learning impaired, who live in the open and are subjected to   -but also because she was rejected from almost all quarters, as there is no facility in the state that keeps mentally unstable girls or women with who are incontinent.
 
 “Since the medical report finding that she was raped was made only on January 14, it is obvious that she did not undergo a medical check-up according to the norms of the   Justice Act for all the days that she was in Civil Hospital, VS Hospital or at the Vikas Gruh where she was earlier taken. The observation home also played choosy , being not will ing to admit a `toilet untrained' girl which is clearly against the rules,“ said a Childline official.
 
 “This mentally unstable girl was also shunned as a human being, because she smelled of excrement. Our sources tell us that she was thrown outside Civil Hospital, and is probably from a town in north Gujarat. She told us that she belongs to Banaskantha,“ said a Childline official.
 
 Deepan Bhadran, DCP (crime) told TOI that the girl's father has been traced to Banaskantha and asked to reach Ahmedabad at the earliest.
 
 “Whosoever is involved in this heinous crime will not be spared. Those found negligent in performing their duty too will be taken to task“, Bhadran said.
 
 Panna Momaya, ACP (women), said they have written to Civil Hospital and the shops nearby for CCTV footage, to ascertain identity of the perpetrators.“We have formed four teams to probe the case and are working on all leads,“ she said.
 
 Course of treatment decided upon
 
 Sources said that a senior team of doctors, including gynaecologists and urologists, at VS Hospital met on Wednesday to decide the future course of her treatment. As her anal area is ruptured, doctors at the moment have decided to provide an outside pipe for her discharge, to keep her from agony, during which time they will observe her response to treatment. If her condition does not improve, reconstructive surgery of the anal tract is the only option, said sources.
 
 She tended to her, set ball rolling with authorities
 
 Mahnoor Saiyad, 29, emerged as a saviour for the girl. She not only tended to her and cleaned her up, even while the hospital remained unsympathetic, but also became the complainant in the rape case with the women's police station. Saiyad's complaint states that she saw the girl lying on the roadside in tatters, on December 30 and informed the 181 Abhayam helpline. She saw her during a visit to the hospital for her own treatment which is ongoing. She got her a pair of clothes and had her admitted her to the hospital, said police officials.
 
