MUMBAI: He's broken his finger twice, incidentally both times in England during an ODI series, but a thigh injury which he suffered on October 29 in an ODI against New Zealand at Vizag that ruled him out for the next five months left   terrified.

 "To be honest I was scared; it's something that had never happened. I heard a loud noise when I was taking the run. I got the MRI done but once days passed by we contacted a lot of doctors and spoke to (Indian team physio)   as well. They all gave me confidence that it's not a major problem and it was a small injury. I went through it quite comfortably," said the fit-again India batsman, who's now primed to lead the   in IPL-10, here on Sunday. What left everyone worried initially was the fact that the   too termed the injury as "serious".
 
 Post surgery, Rohit, who's ironically recovered at a time when most of the top India players are injured and thus unavailable for the first half of the  , is now looking to lead MI's campaign, starting with the first game against Rising Pune Supergiant in Pune on May 6. "It feels like a long time, actually more than five months. I am looking forward to getting back on the field. I missed a lot of games, but injuries are a part of any sportsman's career. I'm not looking back and want to start the season on a high," he said. The injury came at the worst-possible time for Rohit, when he had at last cemented a place for himself in India's Test line-up -he had stroked three fifties against New Zealand at No 6. In a season where India played 10 more Tests, this blow, which forced him to take the lengthiest layoff of his career, came at the worst-possible time.
 
 Rohit though still chooses to dwell on the positives. "I'm just 29. Missing cricket for five months does not do me any bad. These things will happen in future too. In your career, you will miss games. It has happened before and now it does not come as a surprise. It's important for me to stay strong and focus ahead," he said.
 
 The elegant batsman confessed that it wasn't easy to watch the riveting India/Australia Test series while undergoing rehabilitation at the   (NCA) in Bengaluru. "It was tough sitting in the hotel room and watching the team play. I give a lot of credit to the NCA staff. When you have a big injury, you tend to lose muscle strength. It was a big challenge to get it back and become stronger. Thankfully, I am back on the field and ready to play again," he added.
 
 
 
 
 Having played a few times against the Aussies, Rohit says he wasn't surprised at the intensity during the recent series, which saw players from, both India and Australia have a go at each other. Some incidents, he felt, were blown out of proportion. "As long as one remembers not to cross limits it's good. The players know what needs to be done on and off the field," he stressed.
 
