By 
 

 Why would a man fly down all the way from Germany to take part in a friendly cricket outing? It is then that one begins to realize the importance of the moment. History was being created. Two iconic institutions of the city - Presidency University and Eden Gardens -were in embrace.
 Erstwhile Hindu College, later Presidency, and now a full-fledged university is celebrating its bi-centenary. As part of Presidency University's yeoman contribution to sports in Bengal, Eden Gardens became the cynosure of its alumni for a cricket duel between the past and present students.
 
 That the seniors won the match was certainly not the main issue. The deep reverence for the institution was the ultimate victor. Kaushik and Satyajit did not get to bat or to bowl, yet they were as enthusiastic as the 500-plus spectators who cheered from the Club House. This passionate love for one's alma mater gives one the feeling that the golden days of university life are far from over.
 
 The mellow February sun provided the perfect setting for cream-clad cricketers on the emerald surface of Eden.An environment in which the legendary cricketer Nirmal Chatterjee, a Presidency College alumnus, thrived. In the 1940s Nirmalda displayed his wide repertoire of strokes with grace and candour. He would not hit the ball but merely caress it.
 
 How Nirmalda was omitted from Lala Amarnath's India team to Australia in 194748 still remains a mystery.Not that he cared. He surely developed his demeanour in the class-rooms of the iconic college.
 
 Another former Presidencian happens to be Siddhartha Shankar Ray. Ray represented   in cricket earning his `Blue' in the early 1940s. In 1976 as Chief Minister of   and president of CAB, Ray took the initiative to have the Club House constructed at Eden Gardens.
 
 A cricketer himself, Ray never discriminated between various sports disciplines. As CM, he would invite all the Calcutta University 'Blues' in every sport to tea at the Raj Bhavan. He believed in giving respect to sportspersons of all hues.
 
 An outstanding sportsman to emerge from Presidency College in the 1950s was Partho Ghosh. Later the student-cricketer-musician Partho -nicknamed 'All Cube' by his contemporary Animesh Sen -settled down to become a prominent scientist. Cricket lost out to academics.
 
 Hundred years ago Presidency College was at the heart of the city's sports world. One hopes that this embrace with Eden would help Presidency to revive its interest in sports.
 
 (The writer is a former Bengal cricket captain)
 
