GHAZIABAD: With the ongoing tussle between the authorities and the NGT, the issues surrounding Ala Hazrat   has now taken both religious and political hue. The minority wing of Congress on Monday sat on a dharna in front of Ala Hazrat Haj demanding it be opened or else in days to come they will block national highways. District minority cell in charge of Congress, Naseem Khan charged   government of willfully harassing the Muslim community.

 “The Haj house that was inaugurated last year was built at a cost of Rs 50 crores with an aim to serve as transit point of lakhs of Muslim pilgrims on Haj yatra but right before the yatra, it has been closed down on pretext of some NGT order,” said Naseem Khan, District minority cell in charge of Congress. “Administration knew it fully well that between August and September pilgrims go for Haj yatra so they should be allowed to avail the facility for just two months or they should have made alternate arrangements but on the direction of Yogi government they closed it down,” Khan added.
 
 Serving a warning to the government Khan says that he along with his supporters after two days will block national highway if their demands are not met. “A camp for Mansarovar yatra has come up right adjacent to   and the government provided all facilities to pilgrims but for us, there is nothing which smacks of antagonism this government holds for the Muslim community and we will not allow this,” says Khan.
 
 According to district minority officer, Son Kumar,“Ala Hazrat House has been locked due to the ongoing NGT case and there is nothing we could do in this matter.”
 
 In September last year, a petition was filed by Society for Protection of Environment and Biodiversity in NGT stating that Haj House has been built on Hindon flood plain in complete violation of environmental norms and hence it should be demolished and the court is currently hearing the matter. Petitioner Akash Vashistha, convener of Society for Protection of Environment and Biodiversity “the matter is due to be heard on August 3and until that time the court has made it clear that no further construction activities will be carried. The Haj House has been locked down until NGT’s further notice.”
 
 
