Most singers would kill to be in Shashaa Tirupati’s shoes right now. 

 The Indo-Canadian singer has been racking up chartbusters one after another and for the last three years has been AR Rahman’s top pick when it comes to rendering soulful melodies in films such as OK Jaanu, Kaatru Veliyidai and Mom.
  While the singer has sung in Malayalam for the dubbed version of songs from Aadupuliyattam, OK Kanmani and Kaaviyathalaivan, her track from Bejoy Nambiar’s upcoming film Solo would effectively mark her Malayalam debut.
 
  The romantic track is composed by the Carnatic progressive band Agam, who would also be making their film debut. “I really like that a dominant name from the indie scene is composing for a movie. They have taken a different approach for the song and it’s got a lot of soul,” says Shashaa.
  There wasn’t any pronunciation hiccups, she says, as the band’s frontman Harish Sivaramakrishnan guided her through the recording. “He’s a phenomenal singer himself and having him help me out just made it a breeze,” she says.
 
  She says the band really made her feel at home. “When I work with Rahman sir, his sound department takes care of all the paraphernalia – from the flight and local commute to the accommodation and food – so that I could just focus on the song. Agam did the same. They were very professional and I love working with people who have that approach because it shows in your work,” the Humma Humma singer says.
 
  Of late, Shashaa has been increasingly working with Rahman, with the duo even singing a duet O Sona Tere Liye in Sridevi-starrer Mom. Ask her if the maestro has ever confided why he keeps roping her in for his compositions, she says, “Rahman sir values dedication and thirst in a musician. If you look at his career, he’s never satisfied with what has been achieved and is always trying to upgrade himself. I am also constantly trying to learn from other singers and better myself. Maybe it’s a Capricorn thing.”
 
 For the singer, the last few years have been a dream run with her tracks from OK Kanmani propelling her career in the South and her tracks from Half Girlfriend and Mom helping her carve a space for herself in Bollywood.
 
 “Now, there are hundreds of singers and a plethora of voices. So, creating an identity as a singer is extremely difficult. Only a few like Arijit Singh, Sunidhi Chauhan and Shreya Goshal have managed to achieve that in the last decade. Also, there aren’t many female singers who are dominating the charts or are even the pick of the album,” she says. “So, now when people identify my voice and accept me as part of Bollywood, it’s gratifying for me.”
 Shashaa is pleased with the feedback she has been getting. “Once listeners start identifying your voice, they make it a point to let you know how much the music has touched their lives. Be it in an airport, mall or through social media, they tell me how my songs helped them get through a particular situation in life. For me, that’s the greatest acclaim. Everything else is just bonus,” she says.
 
 And to be able to reach out to people in different languages makes the journey merrier, she says. While Shashaa admits that in her formative years, she was more attuned to Tamil music by Ilayaraja, Vidyasagar, Rahman and MS Vishwanathan, in Malayalam she has been a huge fan of KJ Yesudas songs. “I have listened to a lot of Yesudas sir’s songs growing up. After that, I haven’t followed Malayalam music except for the songs sung by Shreya. Currently, I am in love with Gopi Sunder’s compositions and I am dying to work with him,” she says. 
 
 Another dream project that the songstress wants to attempt soon is an independent album. “I have got about 50 tracks in my head and I am looking for people who could play for me now,” she says, adding that she’s game to get out of her comfort zone to explore more indie music.
 
