MYSURU: Department of youth empowerment and sports in association with zilla panchayat will conduct a free adventure training camp for youths at Kunthibetta in   taluk, Mandya district, on Friday. 

 The experts of   said that apart from making people physically and mentally strong, it will also help them to improve concentration and self-discipline. 
 
 During the one-day camp, participants will be trained in various adventurous events including trekking, rock climbing, rafting, river crossing and jummering. The participants, both men and women between 15 and 35 years, can take part in the camp. Contact K Suresh, assistant director, department of youth empowerment and sports at   for more deatils.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ruckimini Chandran, director of Karnataka chapter of  , who will impart training to the participants and has a vast experience in the field, said, “Usually adventure sports was thought to be only for people in the defence and NCC candidates, but later, it was decided that training will be imparted to others as well. 
 
 “The advantage of adventure sports is that it makes an individual mentally and physically strong, it makes them disciplined as we fight with our own strengths and weakness. It also improves our concentration and self-discipline. Gradually, the interest among Mysureans is picking up. The training camp will start at 8 am and conclude at 6 pm.”
 
 She also mentioned that NAF is registered and recognized by Union mnister of youth affairs, New Delhi. 
 
 Mysuru has got a lot of potential for adventure sports. Due to the lackluster approach of the tourism department and lack of encouragement from airport authorities, the adventure sports in Mysuru which was at its peak before 2010, has come to a standstill, she said. 
 
 “Adventure sports will be a great boon for youngsters and if the authorities come up with an adventure park in Mysuru, the youths will benefit more. People who come to learn yoga in Mysuru, especially foreigners, are very interested in adventure sports. If we start promoting adventure sports in Mysuru, we can also expect more tourists in the city. Before the airport came into existence, we used to conduct a lot of adventure sports including aerosports at Mandakalli, but now the airport authorities are not giving permission,” added Ruckimini.
 
 
