Hey, it’s   once again. And   have not just been busy shopping for their lehengas, chaniya cholis and kurta-kedias, they have also been notching up the dance moves. This time, the   of nine-nights will see friends and family throw in a bit of a Western twist to their spin, as they battle it out for the coolest dandiya-garba steps. That’s right. It’s no longer just the classical 
 one-and-half steps), 
 (five-steps), 
 (10-steps) and 
 (reverse moves). On the agenda are funky salsa-garba, rap-style, cha-cha-cha and more. City dance studios and classes are teaching revellers how to spiff up their moves for the big day! Here’s what they’ve been grooving to…

 
 
 
  
  
 The action heats up at several outdoor grounds in Mumbai. It’s a whirl of colour and costume as the groups twirl to some hatke dances. Most popular is the dandiya that’s moved from the basic four-step move to a salsa mix. Dhruv Doctor, dance teacher uploaded a video of it in June, which went viral. He says, “Every year people want to try something different and they loved this. It’s a fusion of the traditional doriya style with salsa steps. It involves 33 steps, but it’s not tough, you can pick it up in two or three classes.”
 Dance teacher Kruti Paralikar is also teaching this fusion to packed classes at Dahisar. She says, “Get set for a modern tadka of salsa-garba and power garba this year. I’m sure many people will be doing this at events.” Explaining how it’s done, she says, “You start with 
 and then club it with the following salsa steps: front basic, then side step to the left, followed by the side step to the right or side basic, spot turns, closed position and inside turns. The dance has gone viral in 
 and on social media. People have been taking back-to-back three-day workshops to master it before the festival starts.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Dance teacher Ritambhara Sahni says the craze for belly dance mixed with garba has really kicked off in Mumbai. “People are quite excited about this fusion, which started last year. What is interesting is that women, who have never danced in their lives, want to try it out too.” A post on the belly dance-garba fusion by Ritambhara caught everyone’s eyes. “Belly dance has a certain lure to it; it’s one of the most exotic and graceful moves and brings out an individual’s feminine side. Garba is as graceful, so an amalgamation of the two is a hit,” she says. 
 So how does one achieve a belly dance-dandiya raas blend on the dance-floor? “We first identify moves that can be merged, such as hip thrusts and lifts, shimmies, figure eights, certain undulations and infuse them into the traditional moves,” reveals Ritambhara, adding, “Both moves effortlessly blend while moving in a circle, where the entire sequence is 70% garba, dandiya with a little belly dance added to it,” she explains. And guess what, this dance form also tones you! “You can burn 300 calories an hour with belly dance. And when it’s blended with garba, you burn around 500 calories an hour,” she informs.
 
 
 
  
  
 Choreographer Satyajit Vora who launched power garba a year ago, says there’s a huge demand for it in the city this time around. “It’s about garba plus fitness, involving high-intensity dance to music. With garba, you also end up doing the upper and core tightening moves and side stretches, followed by lower body moves like squats,” he explains. They also do a ‘Tran Taali Fitness’, which is a clapping routine. “This movement works great to increase the blood circulation, decreases joint and back pain, and boosts the immune system.” In Dumb-bell Dandiya, they do chest and shoulder workouts, where the dandiya is used as a drum stick, to tighten the forearms and wrist.”
 
 
 Fast-paced zumba also finds its way here. Instructor Nisha Mody says this form of garba fusion is all about whirls and claps that are performed to peppy dance mixes. “You use brisk steps such as the merengue and the knee lift here. It works well to make you more flexible,” she says. Girish Doshi, software engineer from Andheri is raring to do the fusions during Navratri.“My friends and I plan to start with zumba and will then do rapper-style forward flips at the end,” he grins.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 All that twirling, whirling, and jumping has its benefits, so go ahead and let down your hair and dance. Fitness experts reveal that both dandiya and garba make for an apt aerobic workout. Says Nita Verma, fitness instructor, “If you’re fit enough and can keep up with the pace of the dance for over 30 minutes, it makes for an apt cardiovascular calorie-torching activity. The moves are similar to zumba, and depending on your fitness level, you can lose up to 300 calories in an hour. But make sure you are well-hydrated and take breaks in between.” The steps are energetic, too. The sitting steps in ‘Lehriyu’, that involves squatting and clapping, tones the glutes, calves and core. What’s more, as this is done in a group, it builds bonhomie, releases endorphins and boosts the mood.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
