Producer of the popular show ' ',  , celebrated his New Year in   and says that 2016 was a rather special year for him. He reveals, “2016 was, in my lifetime, a clear year of change and rebooting. It was almost like you reformat yourself and begin afresh from the start! It broke me down to smithereens and then built me back up into a stronger person; so personally, that's that. Professionally, it made me leave the comfort zone of   and I became a full producer with my wife and started   with ‘Ichchapyaari Naagin’ on Sab   and now ‘Woh Apna Sa’ on  .”
As far as 2017 is concerned, Siddharth has a big project coming up. He says, “The next year promises to be a joyride as I will be directing a feature film. 2017 is a year where I see myself working with many people I've longed to work with and create a name that one is proud of, for Alchemy films and Sapna' s company. Also, I hope that my next film, after ‘We Are Family’ as a director comes out and the hard work we are putting in gets appreciated.”
 And where did he bring in the New Year? “New year is with my family and my closest friends who we call our ‘besties’. Us seven couples with all our kids were at Shaan and Radhika' s farm house in Karjat. All our New Years we have brought in together as a group.” 
 For the New Year, Siddharth has a very inspiring resolution. He says, “My New Year resolution is to lose at least another 20 kilos try and spending more time with my parents and family. Also, I want to aim for the gold in whatever work I do, so the work leaves a mark behind to be spoken about and referenced”
 As a producer, Siddharth shares some insights into the trends that he saw on TV in 2016. He says, “Trend-wise, I feel everyone is trying to break the monotony. There was a time when the theme of the shows would be about shows with women suffering to no end --- all those shows seemed like one and the same. But now, fresh, experimental, and innovative stories are being given a chance so it's only exciting times ahead as audiences today have a choice. Channels have realised it too so, so I feel there are good times ahead for makers who want to say stories they have not got an opportunity to back before.”
 The Naagin based TV show that Siddharth produces, have become quite popular. Talking about that trend, he says, “Naagin as a concept will always work, but not all Naagin based shows will work unless the writing and the way the show is presented is not reinvented. I feel that the main play on a Naagin show is your individual take, like Ichhapyaari is a happy Naagin, a do-gooder --- hence the show is being appreciated and loved. Similarly, others besides Ekta' s Naagin, if they choose to do snake based shows, have to find an interesting peg. Because regular Naagin based shows won't assure numbers without a spin to it.”
 An optimist, Siddharth sees a very vibrant future for Television, “The future of the TV industry is super. Makers and story tellers who have conviction are here to stay. Channels aren't crazy to interfere when they know the creator will ensure that a bad product won't goes on air. So I feel that if we, as creators, are proud of a product where our names go and stick to our conviction, it reflects as a conviction and it can be quite contagious! Anyway, TV will always be there to stay. With channels willing to experiment with all formats and genres, there will be space for all who love their shows and work.”
 
