MUMBAI: It isn’t just humans who are misusing over-the -counter medicines. Their pet friends are suffering too. 

 Doctors have expressed alarm over a number of pet stores doling out  , analgesics and   which can have serious side effects like diarrhoea, allergies and even cause death of animals if administered inappropriately or in excess. Besides, the misuse of the drugs increases the risk of animals suffering resistance like humans.
 
 The   (FDA) has conducted a series of raids on pet stores in Mumbai, Thane and Pune for illegally stocking antibiotics and other prescription drugs. Pet medicines worth Rs 4.5 lakh have been seized so far.
 
 FDA commissioner Dr Harshadeep Kamble said the department was forced to foray into the area of pet medication after their rampant abuse was brought to its notice three months ago. Last week, the FDA served notices on eight pet shops, including five from the city, for acting as pharmacies without holding a valid licence or hiring qualified pharmacists. Besides high-end antibiotics, analgesics and anti-fungal drugs, some of them were also found to be selling schedule H drugs without prescription. These drugs require stringent record-keeping. 
 
 “Our vigilance department found that unqualified people were giving drugs to pets who cannot even complain if they suffer from side effects,” Kamble said, adding that a quality test of medicines was on the cards.
 
 Mumbai’s vets have hailed the crackdown on pet shops. Dr Rustom Bharucha, veterinary expert from Gamdevi, said several owners prefer to approach pet shops first before consulting a doctor. “Pet shop owners do not just offer advice, they even prescribe medicines without understanding the symptoms. When it doesn’t give the desired effect, they come to a doctor. It is a dangerous practice. Certain pet shops also change the brand of the drug without consulting doctors,” he said.
 
 A doctor from Parel said the doctor-pharma firms nexus exists in the pet industry as well. “Pet shops obviously prefer drugs from companies that offer higher incentives or freebies,” he said. According to president of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) Shakuntala Mazumdar, pet shops cannot sell medicines. “They can only sell supplements. In fact, they cannot display or sell live animals. But they get away with violations as the draft rules for pet shops and dog breeding is awaiting the government’s final approval since 2010-11,” she said.
 
 Pet shops located in Andheri, Goregaon, Kandivli and Santacruz which have been caught violating the rules will be booked under Section 18(C) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. The FDA’s Madhuri Pawar said if they have a licence, the shops are bound to maintain quality and follow conditions of preserving the medicines. “Owners, too, should be aware that drugs have toxicity and therefore should only be administered when prescribed by a doctor,” she said. Drug inspectors Kondiba Gadewar, Dhananjay Jadhav and Sheetal Deshmukh carried out the sting operations and the subsequent raids.
 
 
