KOLKATA: UK-based sculptor, painter and installation artist  , whose works adorn all major museums in Europe and the US, has offered to set up his installation in Kolkata, his birthplace. 

 Expected to be set up in New Town—as discussed with   chairman Debasish Sen—the work of art is supposed to commemorate his Jewish community, the population of which has dwindled down to 22 in the city. It will be his first installation in India. 
 
 Judah was merely 10 when he left Kolkata, then a very cosmopolitan Calcutta, back in 1961. But that was an impressionable age. “You take Gerry out of Calcutta, but not Calcutta out of Gerry.” Calcutta keeps coming back in his artistic journey. “Calcutta was such a fabulous cosmopolitan city of my childhood. We used to be part of every festivity in the city, be it Holi, Diwali or Eid. It was a mixed religious culture. When we moved to London, we became more Jew, and Jew, alone,” the artist recounted after his ‘Calcutta Talk’ organized by The   on Tuesday. During his current visit, Judah accommodated a trip to Agarpara Jute mill, where his father worked. “It was fascinatingly the same. It rekindled my memory of my daily journey from my Agarpara home to Jewish Girls’ School where I studied till I was 10,” he said.
 
 Now, Judah felt, hardly anything stood out in the more-congested Kolkata. “But what remains unmistakably same is the collective passion that the people of Kolkata exude. I don’t know what they eat or drink to be so passionate,” he said. Not too keen on divulging the details of his Calcutta sculpture, Judah said, “It will be a symbolic installation, which will provide a global statement to Kolkata’s diversity and its inclusive plural culture.” BCC&I president   said, “We are sure his sculpture will commemorate the important and vibrant Jewish presence in the city since 1798, which at one time had more than 6,000 people.”
 
 Judah’s art installations, many of which included cars of big brands, has a sense of motion and speed about it, lending a dynamic movement to the static sculptures. His holocaust 3D paintings are a unique portrayal of devastation. “I built miniature buildings and cityscape on the canvas and then destroyed them so that the portrayal became real,” he added.
 
 
