PATNA: Senior BJP functionary   on Friday fired a fresh salvo at RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family and accused his son and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav of amassing property without known source of income. He also accused Lalu’s elder son of concealing his assets at Aurangabad in Bihar in his affidavit to the election commission and not disclosing the fact to the state government as well.

 Modi said Tej Pratap bought around 45.24 decimal (equivalent to 15 kattha) of land at a prime location in ward number 6 of Aurangabad town in 2010 and took Rs2.29 crore loan from Aurangabad branch of Madhya Bihar Gramin Bank on February 2, 2012 by mortgaging the plot on which he developed a three-storey automobile showroom in the name of Lara Distributors Pvt Ltd. Tej Pratap was its managing director from April 21, 2010 to November 9, 2015.
 
 “The land at Aurangabad was purchased by Tej Pratap in his name and not in the name of Lara Distributors. From where did he get Rs53.34 lakh at the age of 20 years to buy this land? The present market value of the land near NH-2 (Grand Trunk Road) at Aurangabad is around Rs15 crore. Why were the details related to the land and loan taken against it were not disclosed to the election commission and the state government? CM Nitish Kumar should sack Tej Pratap from his cabinet as he is facing corruption charges with supportive evidence. I will also take up the matter with the election commission,” said Modi, who has accused the Lalu family of running at least 25 shell companies and amassing properties in return of favours granted by the RJD chief to several persons during his stint as railway minister and his wife Rabri Devi being the chief minister of Bihar. 
 
 Modi also accused the Nitish government of blocking all land ownership information pertaining to Lalu family on the official Bihar government site — bhumijankari.gov.in. 
 
 Furnishing documents to support his allegations, Modi alleged that Tej Pratap did not mention the land and the loan of Rs2.29 crore either in the affidavit submitted to the election commission prior to assembly elections in October-November, 2015 or in the property declaration submitted to the state government in December, 2016. 
 
 The leader of opposition in the legislative council said Tej Pratap still holds 2,51,000 shares in Lara Distributors, the biggest shareholder in the firm. He said others shareholders in Lara Distributors include his Lalu’s wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi (1.17 lakh shares), their fourth daughter Ragini Yadav (1 lakh shares), third daughter Chanda Yadav (200 shares) and eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti (1,000 shares).
 
 
