We may even have a   famine this year, say experts, if we don’t wake up at the inception of this impending disaster. They say that though the present condition is a natural phenomenon, we, humans are also accountable for scripting such catastrophe. Experts hint that making use of the surface water with open wells is a short-term solution, but still, the condition is alarming. 
We may have a water famine 
 
 “It is going to be a difficult year for Chennaiites, as there is no supply of water from Veernam Lake, and there is only limited supply from all the reservoirs. We may have water famine, if the crisis is not managed properly by the government and the citizens. The supply from reservoirs may last for a month only, and the officials are not quite upfront about giving a deadline. Even the university exams were rescheduled to reduce the burden on campus hostels. The suburban and high-density areas of Chennai will definitely face drought like situation, whereas the traditional housing colonies with more green spaces/setbacks for percolation will fare slightly better,” says Xavier Benedict, a lagoon 
 conservation expert. 
 
 According to environmentalist  , “The 2015 rains did give us surplus water owing to which our groundwater levels are still stable. However, our reservoirs are almost completely dry. Lakes like Keezhkattalai, Perumbakkam and Mudichur still have considerable amount of water. But the water from these lakes cannot be used for human consumption as we have polluted them. The drought situation across the state is precarious though Chennai is comparatively better off. However, given our demand for water as a city with extended suburbs, this summer will be a challenging period to cover. 
 
 Sekhar Raghavan, a rain water conservation expert, tells us, “During the recent tanker strike, an apartment in the city didn’t get water for a couple of days. Due to shortage of water, the dwellers started using the water from the swimming pool. They used it as temporary sump water. Only if we have drought-like conditions every year will we will learn life lessons. Swimming pool is a luxury in drough-hit Chennai. We should have cut down on such luxuries much before the catastrophe.”
 
 
 
 Xavier says, “I would blame ourselves for losing the opportunity to divert the last year’s rain water into our tanks and lakes. We did not give importance to closing all the outlets leading to sea/rivers that were opened during the 2015 deluge. There is no other quick short-term solution than to create a campaign to reduce water consumption — like reuse of grey water for flushing and avoiding frequent use of washing machine. One may cite the failure of the northeast monsoon as the factor for this crisis. But I would say it is man-made, or a lack of vernacular knowledge of water management. The age-old knowledge of making use of monsoon, and the system of storing water has been lost due to rapid development and modern global education without any local essence. We all know that we have converted all the ponds, and wetlands into housing units – and that this is the reason for the current crisis. The city once had more than 6000 ponds and lakes — and the number has been reduced to 550 in last four decades.” Arun says, “Man-induced climate change and natural causes both, are reasons for this; having said that, we still do not know how to manage water, which is a primary reason for this impending drought. The drought is a recurring phenomenon, but our lack of concern to conserving water is sheer human arrogance and ignorance. The unfortunate fact is that a large section of our state is yet to wake up to the fact that we are in the middle of an almost acute drought.” Environmentalist Babu also echoes, “Drought is a natural phenomenon — and used to occur even the times of the kings. But they managed it as they had ample reservoirs. We failed to save our lakes and reservoirs. Even after the 2015 floods, people are still careless and this is unnerving.”
 
 
 Surprisingly, experts say that wells in the city do have water as the ground water has considerably increased thanks to the recent floods. They say that making use of this water would be our last resort.   says, “I visited a few places in the city. I have suggested open wells to tackle the water crisis. Just peek into the wells in your areas, if there is water, you can dig one at your home grounds, too. While temple tanks indicate the water potential of a locality, wells show the potential of a particular living area. First understand your neighborhood before digging a well. Our ground water resource has two discontinuous layers which are separated by rocks. In certain areas, these rocks can be 10 ft deep, and in certain places, it may not be until 50ft. The resource above the rock is called shallow water resource, which can be sustained by effective rain water harvesting systems. If we had smartly used the rain water harvesting all these years, we could have made use of this shallow water resource by digging open wells. Bore wells are not sustainable water resources. A few apartments I visited recently surprisingly had water in the wells. If I spot water in the near-by wells, I suggest the neighbourhood digs open wells. Utilising the surface water is the only way we can manage to cross over this crisis.” Dr Srinath, a Chennai-based scientist says, “Now that the drought has arrived, we should think of long-term solutions to prevent the recurrence of droughts. We should start building storage tanks apart from rain water harvesting systems in our localities.”
 
 
