MANGALURU: SDMIT Cubers, a team of cubers led by Prithveesh K Bhat, has entered the Guinness Book of World Record titled ‘Largest Dual Sided Rubik’s Cube Mosaic’ that measured 14.981 sqm using 4,500 rubik’s cubes. 

 Prithveesh, a final year electronic engineering student of   (SDMIT) of Ujire in Belthangady taluk, and his team created the image of Mr Bean and Charlie Chaplin on a huge wall of Rubik’s cube in an attempt to create a guinness record at Indraprastha Indoor Stadium in Ujire on October 2, 2016. 
 
 Prithveesh told TOI that he received the certificate from the Guinness Book of World Record authorities on February 15. “The mosaic was constructed vertically and depicts the images on both the sides of the walls using 3x3x3 Rubik’s cubes only. The image of Charlie Chaplin and Mr Bean was represented on each side. The mural was 15 feet high and the team began working on it from 7.30am and completed it by 2.30 pm,” Prithveesh said.
 
 The team members who participated in the event included Prithveesh K, Sharathkrishna K, Viresh Baragi, Shantinath Bharatesh Khurd, Shivakumar T, Prajwal Patil, Vinay T, Swapnil A Arali, Prahlad M M, Harikrishna V, Shayeel S Naik, Sathwik S Paranjape, Stephen K A, Madhur G, Karthik M, Mallanagouda Meti, Sujay Suresh, Sanjaya Holla, Rohan R Gumathanavar, and Shiva H, all students of the SDM Institute of Technology, Ujire, he said. 
 
 Prithveesh said that the team spent Rs 4 lakh to create the image and the financial support for the attempt was provided by Sri Kshetra Dharmastala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade and supported by secretary of   and SDMIT principal K Suresh.
 
 Prithveesh has been promoting cubing through various workshops. Last year, he entered the India Book of Records for training 500 students in solving different kinds of Rubik’s cubes in 2015. He also created the record for dual side Rubik’s cube mosaic portrait. He arranged for 540 Rubik’s cubes in (3x3x3 normal) to build a portrait of Prime Minister   and US President Barack Obama from April 2 and completed the final arrangement on July 14, last year. Being a huge fan of sandalwood actors Sudeep and Rakshith Shetty, he created a mosaic art of 650 Rubik’s cube for each of the stars which were appreciated on twitter by both the actors, recently.
 
 Prithveesh who hails from Cherkady in Udupi, is the son of agriculturist Shyam Prasad and Prasanna.
 
