NAGPUR: The city police, in a strongly worded letter to the   ( ), has threatened to take legal action if it hosts any match or event at the   without all the statutory compliances in place. TOI has a copy of the letter which has also been sent to the   ( ) and other administrative departments in the city.

 The letter was sent on March 8 by the Hingna police station incharge and clearly states that matches or events will not henceforth get permission or bundobust cover.
 
 A top VCA official, on the condition of anonymity , has refused to comment on the issue.
 
 Senior PI of Hingna police station Hemant Kharabe, referred to section 41 of the Maharashtra Po lice Act, 1951 which deals with the powers of a police personnel to issue directions to “all such concerned people to prevent public disorder or breach of law and imminent danger to the persons assembled at public place of amusement associating it with the cricket match and events“ at Jamtha Stadium.
 
 As has been reported by TOI on January 6, 2016, the police wrote that the VCA does not have statutory permissions, like a valid fire NOC, adequate parking space, submission of sanctioned map for building construction, environmental clearance, completion and occupancy certificates.
 
 In the absence of these compliances, the cops informed VCA that the “stadium would be considered unsafe for large public gatherings“ and “in the interest of safety and security of the people, permission will not be given for hosting the next match and no police bundobust will be provided for the purpose“.
 
 The city police added that if the VCA holds a match without the necessary civic permissions “the VCA administration will be solely responsible for any law and order, public disorder and any untoward incident. It is also informed that legal action shall be taken against you“.
 
 The letter concludes that even if no untoward incident takes place legal action would be initiated in the “larger public interest“. It has been also mentioned that a “separate permission from Hingna police station has to be taken by VCA for use of loudspeaker music system during the cricket match or other events“.
 
 The police-VCA row kicked off after two offences were registered against the cricketing body following various violations during the January 29 India-England T20 match this year.
 
 
