The elders, they just don’t get it! How many times have you felt that about having to voice your   to parents or the ‘professionals’? So who do you turn to when you don’t want to speak to anyone but yet have to wrap your mind over something that’s bothering you — however light or serious? Or do you just keep it all to yourself and let the issues fester over to create deeper scars?
Interestingly, youngsters in the city have found themselves a rather simple but effective way out of the situation. 
 
 Picture this: Sitting in the midst of a group of unknown people, nervous to speak about her experiences Maya begins to narrate the story of how she was sexually harrassed. Just discussing it made her feel better. Listening to that story, everyone begins to give their inputs to help her overcome the feeling of being used and to erase those scars that have settled on her since that incident. The Circle — a community support group formed by four friends — attempts to help every victim rid themselves off that emotional baggage.
 
 Initially begun in Mumbai, this group of youngsters found solace among each other when they could discuss experiences that had left them confused and harrowed. Listening to each of their traumatic experiences, and how just talking about it to someone helps, these four students decided to create a ‘safe space’, so that other people like them can talk, and share their stories without any reluctance about being judged.
 
 Co-founder Pooja, who moved to Bengaluru for her higher studies, decided to carry on the circle and help the people of Bengaluru talk it out to feel better. “We started with talking about violence in all forms with all genders, mainly sexual violence and we started having conversations and sessions as to how we can use the law to help us,” says Pooja
 
 
 
 Not all are comfortable about discussing their experiences in front of unknown people. Bengaluru, however, seems to be opening up to the idea rather well. “Compared to Mumbai, I think Bengaluru is brilliant, as people actually reach out to us,” says Pooja
 
 
 
 Schools too seem to be opening up to the idea of letting their students take time off regular classes to sit and talk in groups and discuss what they feel and have been through. “The teachers too intrude when there are serious issues to deal with. But on a large scale, students are allowed to discuss, brainstorm and sort out their issues on their own. To some extent, it brings in a certain amount of independence, confidence and also equips students to deal with a situation better as they may have heard about it at their circle time,” observes a parent of a teen.
 
 - Rachel.Winsdor@timesgroup.com
 
