NEW DELHI: Some of the country’s most prestigious hospitals are under the scanner of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) for allegedly overcharging patients for stents. The regulator has initiated a probe against hospitals including PGIMER Chandigarh;   in Mumbai;   in Saket, Delhi;   in Faridabad and Ballabhgarh (Haryana); and Ram Murti Hospital in Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh).

 Disclosing the names on its official twitter handle late evening on Thursday, the NPPA said it has received complaints against these hospitals and have alerted concerned state drug regulators.
 
 The NPPA received the complaints against the hospitals through its helpline, an official source told TOI. 
 
 However, it maintained, “NPPA has got no complaints of shortage of stents from any place so far. Supply and availability has been ensured”.
 
 Another tweet by the central drug pricing authority said the Haryana state drug controller has assured the NPPA that complaints have already been forwarded to the concerned officers and will be investigated by Friday. 
 
 Department of pharma secretary J P Prakash told TOI action will depend on the extent of violation. “There are different provisions under the Essential Commodities Act as well as under the DPCO". The penalty can vary from cancellation of manufacturing or import license to black listing. Under DPCO, there are also provisions for penalty which includes recovery of overcharged amount along with a 15% interest penalty, he said.
 
 After price capping of stents, the NPPA mandated hospitals to put up a new price list for all stents at a conspicuous place accessible to all. The companies were also asked to immediately send the revised list to hospitals, in order to maintain transparency. The regulator has also started a helpline and an online portal called ‘Pharma Jan Samadhan’ where people can lodge complaints of overpricing or unavailability.
 
 In case of overcharging for stents, the state authorities have the power to take action against the hospitals, whereas the health ministry can take action if there is any non-compliance in central government hospitals.
 
 NPPA has so far maintained that Essential Commodities Act provides for several provisions to punish those violating its order because stents like medicines are included in the National List of Essential Medicines and are regulated under the Act.
 
 In an office memorandum issued separately on Thursday, the regulator warned stent manufacturers, importers, hospitals and distributors against creating any shortage or denying a stent to a needy patient despite it being available. It also asked companies to maintain production and supply at the pre-price cap levels.
 
 The department of pharmaceutical has also invoked special provisions under the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO) to ensure compliance of the pricing order as well as availability of stents. 
 
