MUMBAI: The popular   bus stand under the   may have to be relocated following a notice from the BMC this week. The Dadar-Pune taxi service may also be hit as cabbies have also been asked to vacate the parking space below the flyover. 

 The BMC, in its notice, has asked the   and taxi unions to vacate the premises below the flyover in order to make it a no-parking zone. This is following a   directive of June 8, which has asked the civic body to remove vehicle parking from below all flyovers in the city for ‘security reasons’.
 
 The Shivneri stand has more than 12,000 commuters travelling daily in both directions from Dadar to Pune station or Swar Gate (Pune) by AC Volvo 45-seater and Aswamedh 55-seater jumbo buses. While sources said the Asiad bus stand for semi-luxury buses could stay in its present location (it is not below the flyover), the Shivneri AC buses will have to shift to another stand southwards, perhaps towards Parel. 
 
 “We are upset over shifting/relocating the stand to another area as passengers find the present location convenient,” said MSRTC managing director Ranjit Singh Deol. He said both stated the Dadar Asiad stand and Shivneri bus stand were close to the railway station and commuters from both Central and   found it easy to travel by train to Dadar and walk it down to the stands to catch a Pune-bound bus.
 
 He further pointed out that buses arrived to only ‘pick up and drop’ passengers at the stand. “We are not a pay and park zone as we do not park any buses below the flyover, unlike the taxis. So, I think we (MSRTC) should be given an exemption by the BMC. I will write to the civic authorities in this connection,” Deol told TOI.
 
 MSRTC had invested in infrastructure for passengers below the flyover, including a help desk, control room, computerized ticketing centre, AC waiting room for passengers with LCD TV, rack for newspapers and magazines, FM radio service, drinking water and other amenities. There were proper queues for boarding and announcements of arrival and departure of buses, officials said.
 
 The notice was served by the BMC deputy chief engineer (traffic). Said a senior civic official: “We are following court orders for clearing the area below flyovers. We have not singled out anyone and have given notices to all those who were using the spaces for parking their vehicles below flyovers. The state transport has in fact replied to us on Wednesday stating their difficulties in vacating the space immediately.”
 
 The notices were also served to the Bombay Pune Taxi Stand Union, which parks vehicles below the flyover, and another contractor using the space for pay and park. “In fact the contractor has already vacated the space,” said the official. The notice does not state a time period to vacate the space.
 
 
