BENGALURU: The   (BMRC), which is scampering to meet the   to get the north-south   between   and National College operational, is unlikely to meet its target with several tests still pending.

 The corporation has been maintaining that work on the stretch is complete and it only needs to finish the trials, but the ground reality is different. The tunnels are yet to be sealed and nine other tests are pending. Also, several outdoor tests, including the signal visibility verification and onsite data validation, are still in progress.
 
 BMRC managing director   Kharola said the tunnel will be sealed on Thursday , and the tests and trial runs will be complete by April 15. The corporation will then need to invite the Commissioner for Railway Safety (CRS) for an inspection before being able to open the corridor for public.
 
 Going by previous experiences, the CRS inspection takes at least two weeks.“They (officials) don't always turn up as we invite them,“ a senior BMRC official told TOI on the sidelines of a press conference.
 
 Bengaluru minister KJ George said: “The second phase of the Metro will be followed by more phases. We must appreciate the commitment shown by BMRC. Not only are they building the Metro but are also helping construct skywalks and develop parks.“
 
 He, however, urged Kharola to ensure the corporation provides ample space in as many stations as possible.Clean toilets are another must, the minister said.
 
 George, accompanied by KPCC president Dinesh Gundurao and urban development department additional chief secretary Mahendra Jain, inspected the underground stretch between Kempegowda and Sampige Road stations on Wednesday.BMRC officials extinguished a fire, displaying the safety measures in place.
 
 Stating that 3,000 transit mixer loads of concrete were used, Kharola said: “The length of the cable laid is about 1,000 km; we could've taken this cable to Mumbai in a straight line.“ Reiterating that all safety measures, including firefighting and anti-derailment systems are in place, he said the final testing of their performance is under way .
 
 He said BMRC will completely restore the Chick Lalbagh park, which has been completely damaged, besides constructing a skywalk connecting the Kempegowda station to the other side of the road.
 
 
 
 
 Metro services between Sampige Road station and Rajajinagar are likely be halted for a week as BMRC prepares to make the underground corridor functional. Kharola said that the dates for the temporary closure are yet to be fixed. “We will arrange for bus services from Rajajinagar to Kempegowda station till the time the services are stopped.“
 
 
 
 During inspection, Bengaluru minister K J George said the BBMP has been advised to divert the water that gets accumulated at the Keno Theatre underpass to a stormwater drain near Mantri Mall. “Every time it rains, many people are inconvenienced because of this problem. The situation also worsens near Cauvery junction,“ he said.
 
 
