PUNE: Arun Kamble did not realize he had flouted the zebra crossing rule on Sinhagad Road on Wednesday afternoon. 

 A text message an hour later, with a link leading to the photographic evidence of the violation, alerted him about the violation for which he has to pay a penalty. 
 
 The property agent was among the first lot of road rule offenders who were caught and penalized by the traffic police using the new   system launched on Wednesday. 
 
 The long-awaited facility empowers the traffic division to send instant alerts to citizens about the rule violations based on photo and video evidence recorded in its control room and also collect the penalties online.
 
 The offenders caught by the traffic wardens can also do away with the old paper receipt system and pay the fine electronically via hand-held e-challan devices available with all traffic divisions.
 
 The high-tech facility has been introduced by the police in collaboration with city-based Sparken IT Solutions Pvt Ltd. The firm had launched an identical system in Mumbai in October 2016. The result was an increase in the number of offenders and the fines recovered from them.
 
 In Pune, the facility is expected to help the traffic police track down people flouting norms such as not adhering to zebra crossing rule, riding triple seats, not using helmets and seat-belts, using fancy number plates and parking vehicles illegally.
 
 With databases of the traffic police and the   linked, penalties not paid against a vehicle will continue to remain pending against the registered owner, who will face the subsequent risk of run-ins with the transport authorities.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Mundhe said the facility will not only make the traffic offences system transparent and paperless, but will also ensure that no offender goes off the hook.
 
  “We are working on further improving the technology to move towards automatic offence recording in the system. This will further reduce the manpower needed for the task,” he said. 
 
 Traffic consultant   said, “Digitizing the system and its automatic enforcement are the only way to improve its efficiency and streamline the system.”
 
 The system does not discriminate between a two-wheeler and a luxury sedan, said  , director of Sparken IT Solutions Pvt Ltd. “People often tend to argue with the traffic wardens when pulled up for an offence. But from now, there will be photographic evidence of the offences,” he said.
 
