JAIPUR: The state government has ordered a probe into the national soil health testing project after discovering flaws in implementation.

 Launched in early 2015, labs were set up across the state under the project in the public-private-partnership (PPP) model to test soil. The project had set an ambitious target of issuing 70 lakh health cards by March 2017.
 
 But several irregularities were found at these soil testing labs after the agriculture minister asked officials to inspect 69 of them functioning under the PPP model.
 
 The probe order was issued after the minister personally carried out surprise visits to three labs at Duni and Deoli in Tonk district and Kekri in Ajmer.
 
 “Huge anomalies were observed during inspection at all the three places. We have provided them thousands of samples, but these firms have not issued a single   so far. I have asked department officials to thoroughly check labs operating under the PPP mode in the state,” said agriculture minister  .
 
 According to officials, staff working at Douni and Deoli testing centres had no training and most of the equipment was out of order.
 
 “There were huge variations in results when we cross-checked the same samples at government labs. A single firm is running all the three centres for the past one year and there has not been much progress,” added the official.
 
 While the project had targeted issuing 70 lakh health cards by March 2017, these labs have managed only 39.5 lakh so far. This has forced the government to extend the deadline to December 2017.
 
 The nationwide scheme was launched from   in   district on February 19, 2015. Soil health cards provide crop-wise recommendations of nutrients/fertilizers required for farms with different soil types. This makes it possible for farmers to improve the productivity through judicious use of inputs.
 
 Apart from facing sample testing issues, the state is also lagging in issuing utilization certificates (UCs) for funds released by the Centre. The state has so far received Rs 22 crore for the project, with Rs 11 crore released during the 2016-17 financial year. However, no UCs have been submitted by the state, ranking it behind   for the failure to provide certificates for money sanctioned from 2014-17.
 
