AHMEDABAD: As severe  , 16 of the 23 towns monitored by the   (IMD) in the state crossed the 42°C mark on Wednesday.   was the hottest town in the state, with the mercury touching the 45°C mark, a statement from IMD   said. Gujarat will continue to face the heat, as the IMD on Wednesday issued a warning about severe heatwave conditions at various places in the state for the next two days. According to IMD Gujarat officials, there will be no respite   in the immediate future.

  Jayanta Sarkar, director of IMD Gujarat, said that severe heatwave conditions will prevail over Saurashtra, Kutch and south Gujarat regions. “There is also a heatwave warning for north Gujarat on Thursday and Friday. Temperatures at Surat, Vadodara, Porbandar and Naliya will remain relatively high.”
 
 Heatwave conditions prevailed in north Gujarat on Wednesday, with Idar in Sabakantha recording a maximum temperature of 44.4°C, the hottest in the region, followed by Mehsana at 43.6°C. Deesa in Banaskantha recorded a 43.4°C maximum and Patan 42.8°C.
 
 In Ahmedabad, the maximum temperature was 42.8°C, about 4 degrees above normal. The minimum on Wednesday was 20.2°C, 3.4 degrees below normal. Relative humidity ranged from 33% and 8% on Wednesday. IMD Gujarat also issued a yellow warning for the city. 
 
 Senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials said that public gardens will stay open from 6am to 11pm, considering the heat.
 
 On Wednesday, the city reported 140 heat-related medical emergencies. Doctors have advised people to drink more fluids to avoid dehydration. Those venturing out in the sun should drink more fluids. The elderly at home should also regularly be given fluids such as lemon water and buttermilk, said doctors.
 
 Bhavin Solanki, in-charge medical officer of AMC’s health department, said hospitals have been instructed to be prepared for heat-related emergencies. They were told ensure that proper stocks of ice-packs, intravenous fluids and oral rehydration salts (ORS) were at hand.
 
 Amit Thakur, an Amdavadi teacher, said: “I have to cover my face and wear gloves when I drive from Vastral to Vatva. I keep drinking water in my classes.” Mukesh Mishra, who works for an insurance company, said: “I get my work done from office these days,” he said.
 
 
