BENGALURU: The number of   seeking help is considerably lesser than men,   say. However, this doesn’t mean addiction is not a major problem among women. The number is more an indication of the bias and   faced by women, counsellors feel.

 The tobacco cessation centre at KC General Hospital, Malleswaram, counsels 150 male tobacco addicts every month as against 10 females, according to state tobacco cell records. At its free counselling stall on the second day of Bangalore Health Festival at Palace Grounds last week, the cell convinced about 50 active male smokers to go for anti-tobacco treatment but wasn’t approached by even a single woman.
 
 “Most   who smoke/chew tobacco do it without their family members’ knowledge. Any woman who smokes is considered to be of a disreputable character and isolated. This makes female patients think twice before asking for help even if they want to quit smoking or chewing tobacco,” said Narasaiah, an anti-tobacco counsellor at KC General Hospital. The centre has had several instances of women dropping out of the anti-tobacco treatment midway fearing family wrath. “The patients who finally end up at our centre don’t even leave behind their contact numbers,” Narasaiah added.
 
 All patients visiting the centre have to undergo a pulmonary test and are counselled to quit the habit. They are shown posters and videos explaining the havoc tobacco can cause as well as the impact passive smoking can have on their kith and kin. “We cite examples of people’s experiences and hazardous health effects like lower sperm count, loss of sperm motility, impotence and various lung infections and diseases,” Narasaiah explained.
 
 Treatment at KC General Hospital involves counselling and providing alternatives like nicotine gum and patches.
 
 “Tobacco consumption patterns are diverse and show cultural and social variation. While smoking is more prevalent among men and urban women, chewing tobacco is more common in women of lower economic strata. Men in these households do not lay emphasis on enroling women members in de-addiction programmes as they themselves are into various addictions,” said Dr Vishal Rao, consultant oncologist and member of high-powered committee on tobacco control, Government of Karnataka.
 
 
 
 
 I began chewing tobacco in my early 20s due to peer pressure. In fact, most of my female neighbours in the slum are tobacco addicts and unaware of its adverse impact on health. However, for those who are willing to give up the habit, there isn’t a way. Our husbands are not willing to allow us to go for anti-addiction therapy 
 
 Rathnamma (name changed), 38, domestic help
 
 
 
 
 Smoking is injurious to both men and women and both genders should give it up to stay healthier. However, when women smoke in public, they have to experience filthy stares and lewd comments. Society should realize that the stigma often prevents women from revealing their habit or seek de-addiction treatment. Even today, urban women smokers are considered to be of questionable character. While no one is really bothered about her health, gender discrimination comes to the fore every time a female smoker is humiliated
 
 Reshma (name changed), 28, techie
 
 
