It is a practice in movies to run the customary disclaimer, ‘Any resemblance to actual persons or incidents is purely coincidental’. In the case of Ramaleela, the   film Malayalis are debating whether to watch or not, that standard line is unlikely to carry much conviction.
We learn that several scenes and sequences in the movie bear an uncanny resemblance to the dramatically unfolding case involving Dileep, who is in custody in connection with the assault of an actress. This is evident for anyone who has been following the promotion of the movie, from the film’s teaser to the recently released poster, which has the protagonist   paying homage to his ancestors. Can it be accidental that the marketing team chose this scene, after the actor, in real life, got permission to come home for a few hours and do ‘shradham’ for his late father?
 
 The movie’s scriptwriter Sachy tells us whether life is imitating art or vice versa.
 
 
 
 
 Dileep’s character Ramanunni, a successful and popular MLA, too goes through trials that are similar in nature to what the actor is facing. In the film, Ramanunni becomes the victim of a political conspiracy and is interrogated, arrested and the whole movie is in fact about his struggle to prove his innocence. 
 
 There are a lot of coincidences in the movie to what I saw of late in Dileep’s life. For instance, in the movie, there is a scene where he comes out of the jail with permission to offer shradham to his father. It happened in his real life as well. 
 
 
 
 
 The film’s shoot was almost over nine months back, while the entire actress assault happened in February, when the film was in post-production stage. There are many other scenes in the film too that have accidental similarity with Dileep’s current life. 
 
 There is a scene where Ramanunni asks the investigation officer enacted by Mukesh, “Prathi njanavanam ennoru theerumanam ullathupole… (Seems there is a decision to make me the culprit)” to which Mukesh replies, “Thelivukal theerumanikkum prathi aravanamennullathu… (The proof will determine who the culprit is). Similar questions and confusions are raging in our society after Dileep’s arrest. Do you think it was all deliberate?
 
  
  
 
 Also, there is a scene in which Ramanunni’s friend and politician TC (Thomas Chacko), essayed by actor Shajon, quips, after glancing at the crowd that gathered to listen to his speech, “Ninakkorupadu janasammathi undallo (You seem to have lot of supporters) and Ramanunni responds that even more people would turn up if he is sentenced to death. During his arrest, we had a similar situation when people jostled to get a glimpse of Dileep after he was arrested. The crowd that comes to see him in his sets is much less. 
 
 
 
 
 Somewhere I feel so. Interestingly, while Dileep was dubbing for the film, the rumours were afloat about his involvement in the actress’ assault and he smiled and asked me, “Arampattiya script aanallo bhai…” 
 
 Similarly, after penning the script, I had asked a friend of mine to go through it and when Dileep’s trial was on, he called me up and said, “Arampattipoyallo!” The film even shows the society being divided into two and the media discussions and trial of the character exactly the way it is happening to Dileep. 
 
 
 
 
 Back in 2012, after I wrote Run Baby Run, Dileep had asked me if I could write a script for him on similar lines. I wasn’t ready as my movie aesthetics are totally different from that of his. I am not for the kind of slapstick comedy he gets into and I clearly told him that I cannot write something of that sort. He then assured me that he will not interfere in the film’s script and that it will be purely my movie. It was then that the idea of a political movie came to my mind and I discussed it with Dileep. He was excited, but I got busy again with my directorial debut. I didn’t even know Arun Gopy, the director of Ramaleela. However, Arun waited for my script to make his debut and it took more than two years.
 The film originally had New Delhi and the political scenario there as its backdrop. But after BJP came to power, we felt it would be tough for the audience to relate to it, so we shifted the plot to Kerala and connected it with a few contemporary issues. So there are no deliberate gimmicks being employed. 
 
 
 
 
 As I said, the film is completely based on my script and while shooting the movie I was busy scripting for my Biju Menon movie Sherlock Toms. I have no involvement in the marketing of the movie and I believe the director and the producer have the freedom to choose their strategies to attract people to theatres. 
 
 
 
 
 I was a practising criminal lawyer for years and I strongly believe that he is innocent until proven guilty and we should wait until the court comes out with a judgment. We should be mature enough to look at a film as a medium of entertainment. The actor has already received his remuneration and his business with the film is over. I am also against the keyboard warriors and I quit social media five years back when I realised that my medium is film not Facebook or Twitter. In a democratic country, everybody has the freedom to decide what they want to do. While a few use their freedom to boycott the movie, the movie should be allowed its release. Let people watch if they want to watch it.
 
 
