KOLKATA: It was a tough battle for survival for 81-year-old Gita Nandy, who had to be treated in a critical care unit (CCU). The octogenarian did pull through after more than a month. But the senior citizen had another lengthy battle ahead of her — with rehabilitation post-CCU treatment. 

 And this is where a novel initiative by the CCU team at R G Kar Medical College and Hospital (RGKMCH) came to her rescue. The CCU team at   has been practicing what is called   (patient and family engagement) in the intensive care unit ( ), where family members are trained in post-ICU treatment rehabilitation. The term PFE was coined and defined only in February 2015 by a team of health professionals who came out with a report on the importance of the family’s participation in rehabilitation of patients post-ICU treatment in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine. But RGKMCH has been practicing this much longer. 
 
 Take the case of Gita, who was admitted in July 2016 with severe sepsis along with respiratory and heart failure. The elderly woman had to be treated for over a month. Once doctors realized the patient could be discharged, they started involving her family members, teaching them how to feed through the tube, fix and handle equipment like Bipap machine, nebuliser etc and also in physiotherapy. 
 
 “The training has been of huge help. Though my mother is doing much better, we need to check on oxygen saturation and use the Bipap machine if, and even nebulise her on and off. Because of the training, we are confidently taking care of her at home,” said Gita’s son Asit, a trader from Berachampa, North 24-Parganas. 
 
 Often, patients have to be discharged with feeding tubes and urinary catheters because regaining good swallowing power and expressing the urge to pass urine may take months. Untrained family members may find it difficult to take care of patients needing specialized devices and treatment. It is not always possible for every family to hire round-the-clock care-givers. 
 
 “Whenever a critically ill patient shows signs of improvement, we rope in willing family members in some aspects of the daily care of the patient, so that they become familiar with these once the patient goes home and needs post-ICU rehabilitation,” said Dr Sugata Dasgupta, the critical care specialist at RGKMCH who has been instrumental in making PFE a reality. 
 
 
