COIMBATORE:   in the assembly during the trust vote could have backfired, but the indications are clear that the party is likely to continue its aggressive stance. 

  On Sunday,   set the politico-cultural course for the party by launching an attack on the   government and its rebel leader   while issuing advisories to his own cadres on political culture, an essential element to keep up the morale of partymen for the next four years without power.
 
  By calling him a political opportunist, Stalin ended the perceived bonhomie with Panneerselvam, within weeks after the now famous smile he shared with him in the assembly that purportedly plunged AIADMK into chaos.
 
  On the political front, Stalin said the party would "continue the protests against the undemocratic government in a democratic way". The day to taste victory is not far away, he told cadres in a statement in Sunday.
 
  On the cultural front, Stalin sought to do away with rituals associated with Tamil Nadu politics - falling at the feet and extravagant banners and posters. For his upcoming birthday on March 1, Stalin reiterated his earlier request not to gift him shawls and instead give him books.
 
  In a hard hitting statement, Stalin alleged that OPS was using former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's name for gaining political mileage. Taking on Panneerselvam for criticising his demand that Jayalalithaa's name be removed from government schemes, Stalin said OPS had never raised doubts about the mystery behind the death of   when he was chief minister.
 
  "Only after he was denied the chief minister's chair, which was two months after her death, did Panneerselvam choose to go on meditation under media spotlight and say there was mystery behind Jayalalithaa's death,'' Stalin said.
 
  He said it had become a habit of AIADMK leaders like OPS to forget their political patrons, but seek to cling on to them when they didn't have anything else to play politics with after they lose power. "Did he raise the issue when he was chief minister and had the blessings of those who have occupied Poes Garden (residence of Jayalalithaa)?" Stalin asked. 
 
  Advising partymen to avoid extravagant banners and posters to celebrate his birthday, which might lead to "disenchantment among the public", Stalin urged DMK members to gift him books on his birthday and organise welfare programmes. 
 
  "Out of love, many party members gift me glittering shawls on my birthday. With changing time and sartorial preferences, shawls have become useless pieces of cloth and gifting them has become meaningless. Instead, revive the habit of gifting books that would help one lifelong," he said.
 
 
