 have always had a stodgy reputation. But if done right they can up your style ante. Here’s how to broach the trend:

 Think brooches and you think of stodgy skirt suits, staid coifs and tight-lipped smiles. Maybe we are describing Dolores Umbridge – the hateful Hogwarts teacher who was always seen with a kitten pin affixed to her lapel. For years, brooches have been pinned down by fashionistas as a stodgy accessory thanks to the people associated with it. Think the Queen of England, Madeleine Albright, aged Park Avenue socialites – you get the picture. 
 
 
 
 It took Fall 2015 international runways to bring them back in the reckoning. Brooches were all over: on Prada lapels, pinned on collars at Dolce & Gabbana, tacked onto berets at Marc by Marc Jacobs, and even clipped onto heels at Céline. Unlike other jewellery, the styling possibilities with brooches and pins are pretty much decided by you. Designer Jayesh Sachdev says, "Fill up your outfits with brooches or pins if you’re all for experimenting. If you’d like to go safe, you can stick to one or two. On your collar, pocket, sleeve, chest, or the bottom hem of your outfits. Or keep it to your denims, or bags." Fashion blogger and brooch fan Payal Parija says, "I, personally, stay away from putting it on light-weight fabrics because the pins can damage the material."
 
  
  
 
 
 Any accessory that is pinned on your garment should have a certain amount of quirk to it, says designer Anu PD. And 'quirk' helps you stand out. That’s why, while traditionally brooches used to go between the collar on a shirt and on a sari palla, now you can use it to hold a scarf or cape together, or as pendants or on the sleeves. Parija has used a sparkly brooch on a solid cloth clutch, and also repurposed a tribal maang tikka as a brooch. A pin is usually used on the lapel and is smaller, says Sachdev who likes to wear a pin on his T-shirts. His take: "A basic tee with a small pin is a fun minimal accessory."
 
 
 
 Clearly, certain fashion sets have got the memo that brooches are cool. Recently, Alia Bhatt and Jacqueline Fernandes donned jackets with pop-art pins. Sachdev says that they work well for work and formal wear too. Corporate etiquette trainer Konkona Bakshi calls it "an ideal work jewellery", and uses them to add an element of interest to staid workwear. Anu PD is all for using bejewelled brooches for a formal look. She adds, “For casual and workwear, play with current trends and sport graphic or cartoon-inspired designs, floral designs or geometric shapes.”
 
 
 
 1. Mix old with new. If you have a vintage brooch, wear it with a structured, graphic print dress. Or tack a pop pin on a flowy vintage dress. 
 2. Placement is key. Usually a brooch is worn left or right, over the bust, but try other placements. Use it at the centre of a buttoned up collar, or on a rolled-up sleeve. Don’t just pin it in the middle of a top.
 3. Blazers and brooches are buddies. To add some punch to your daily go-to look, place a playful brooch at the lapel of a tailored black blazer.
 4. Use it on a bag. To make any bag dressier, use a big brooch or pin to it. Adding a brooch to the top corner of a bag instantly makes it chic.
 
 "Use a brooch as a headpiece like a mini tiara. Or as a hair ornament, attaching a scarf or dupatta to the side of the head" — Anu PD, designer
 
