JAIPUR: In yet another incident of   and  , nine juveniles escaped from the government-run   after breaking through the wall of the home on Monday late night.

 According to Transport Nagar police station, the incident took place at 12.20 am on Monday night when nine juveniles uprooted a sewage chamber’s box created a hole near the back wall of the home and jumped out one by one.
 
 “They jumped into the vacant plot at the backyard of the nearby psychiatric hospital and fled in a group,” added an observation home official the condition of anonymity.
 
 The recent escape incident is fourth in four months, many of the juveniles who escaped on Monday night were also part of 17 juveniles who had escaped on December 7.
 
 One juvenile was detained by the cops on Tuesday early morning; cops suspect that repeated incidents of such nature shows the possibility of ‘an insider’ helping juveniles. 
 
 “The must have planned their escape in advance, they turned one sewage chamber box into a sharp weapon and created a hole in the wall near the window and jumped out,” added a senior police official.
 
 Manoj Gehlot, house’s superintendent told TOI that social justice and empowerment department has decided to make a high security wall in order to prevent such escapes. 
 
 “The back wall is weak due to moist, it was constructed several years ago, we are making a new wall and the construction would start by the end of this month,” he added.
 
 While the government is planning to construct a wall, sources said that government paid no attention in hiring more guards and fulfilling sanctioned posts. 
 
 “The observation home needs one   (PO) and nine more guards, the observation home runs without any proper oversight and accountability,” sources said.
 
 The repeated incidents of escape have posed a serious challenge for the city police too, “Many of these juveniles have formed gang and we had detained them with vehicles, cash and chains. We trace these juveniles, and hand over to observation home. But they escape again,” added a senior police official.
 
 Other escapes
 
 September 8: Sixteen juveniles broke the wall and jumped out of the home
 
 November 17: Seventeen juveniles escaped after drilling a hole at the washroom of the house
 
 December 7: Fifteen juveniles escaped from the front door of the observation house
 
 Problems
 
 1) Only four guards deployed at the observation centre
 
 2) Lack of facilities inside the observation home
 
 3) No proper rehabilitation or counselling sessions
 
 4) The walls of the house not properly maintained 
 
 
