PATNA: Though   government is not admitting use of force in the ambitious human chain exercise, an inclination of the government towards ‘dictatorial attitude’ seems quite evident. Amidst the brouhaha over involvement of schoolchildren and restriction on vehicular movement during the much-touted exercise, deputy chief minister   on Thursday quoted Mahatma Gandhi as having written in Young India, an English language weekly in 1931, “If I was appointed dictator for one hour for all India, the first thing I would do would be to close without compensation all the liquor shops.”

 Talking to reporters during inspection of flyover projects in the state capital, Tejashwi claimed that the state government wants to spread awareness on prohibition among cross sections of the society, including children, but nobody is being asked to compulsorily participate in the human chain.
 
 “Even Gandhi has said that if he would have been the dictator of the country for one hour, then he would have ordered to close all liquor shops in the country. Human chain for spreading awareness on prohibition is a good cause and we want to involve all sections of the society in the exercise. The government has only made appeal to people to join the cause, but no one is being compulsorily asked to participate in the human chain,” said Tejashwi. 
 
 CM Nitish Kumar had earlier quoted the same quote of Gandhi in an article he wrote for a national news channel in August last year. 
 
 Meanwhile, BJP is cornering Nitish government for forcefully involving schoolchildren in the human chain scheduled to be held in the state on January 21. Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday furnished a letter from the principal of a school based at Aurangabad asking guardians of all students to ensure that their wards are present in the human chain, otherwise their registration in the school would be cancelled.
 
 The letter dated January 12 and signed by Sunil Kumar, principal of Rajkiya Krit Tilak Madhya Vidyalaya, Khudwan, Obra, Aurangabad, states that cent per cent attendance of all students is compulsory and those not present in the human chain would face cancellation of registration in the school and all government services (cycle, uniform and scholarship) would be stopped for them.
 
 Modi also claimed that 12 girls fainted during the compulsory rehearsal for the human chain exercise at   in CM Nitish Kumar’s home district Nalanda.
 
 “BJP supports human chain, but the way schoolchildren are being forced to participate in the exercise is unacceptable. Besides, the Supreme Court of India has also termed any sort of bandh as illegal, which is also applicable to human chain as normal life would be thrown out of gear due to restriction on vehicular movement for five hours during the event,” said Modi. 
 
 
