DALTONGANJ: The deputy collector of treasury,   lodged an FIR against the district treasury officer,   with Daltonganj police on Tuesday, for tampering with the value of sanctioned bank cheques. 

 DSP P R Barwar said the FIR was lodged on the night of February 28 and Shailesh Kumar was remanded to judicial custody on Wednesday, following orders of the deputy commissioner Ameet kumar. 
 
 A sanctioned cheque amounting to Rs 10,629 was turned into a cheque worth Rs 3,10, 629. In another instance, a sanctioned cheque worth Rs 71, 950 was inflated to a cheque amounting to Rs 7, 71, 950. 
 
 These cheques were duly received by the private parties such as printing press owners, petrol pump owners and furniture dealers. About half a dozen such people are also under the ambit of the case and they will be interrogated first, Barwar added.
 
 Police have registered the case under Sections- 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467 (forgery of a valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as a genuine forged document) and 120 (B) (conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 Barwar said, "The administration may refer the case to the government and forward it to the Anti- corruption bureau, enforcement directorate and   sleuths." "We cannot rule out the involvement of other officials in the scam," he added.
 
 Barwar briefed the media here along with treasury deputy collector Satish Kumar who said, "The embezzlement worth Rs 98 lakhs was detected when officials started demanding remuneration for the   2016 examinations. They said they had not received any payment till date even though JAC had already sent a cheque worth Rs 9,93,800 and the Palamu administration had received it.''
 
 Kumar said, "The district treasury officer did deposit the money with SBI but did not make any entry in the cash book which is a gross financial malpractice."
 
 Kumar said government money worth Rs 93,698 was shown as spent on buying sofa for the renovated circuit house Daltonganj but the sofa was never purchased and the cash was siphoned off. 
 
