BHOPAL: With the launch of the first phase of redevelopment project, 23 stations across the country were selected for massive overhaul on Wednesday. The   brought good news for Bhopal as the city has become the first one in the country where both its railway stations have been chosen for redevelopment.

 Following Habibganj, which was the first station in the country to be chosen for redevelopment last year, now Bhopal railway station has followed suit. Bhopal station will be allocated Rs 75 crore in the coming years as was announced by   via a nationwide press conference on Wednesday.
 
 Under the redevelopment project,   has to develop 400 stations across country with the help of local developers and builders. Of the total 23 stations in first list, Bhopal and Indore has been chosen for redevelopment from Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The Union cabinet has also approved the proposal to redevelop all A1 and A category stations. On West Central Railway, there are 16 A1 and A category stations.
 
 Two non-contiguous plots measuring 7.03 acres (plot A measuring 0.78 acres and plot B near Hamidia Road measuring 6.25 acres) have been identified for commercial development on either side of Bhopal railway station. The chosen developer will be given lease rights for a period of 45 years for redeveloping the plots.
 
 Addressing the conference, Prabhu said, “The idea is to use the railway land for commercial purposes and at the same time provide world-class passenger amenities at these redeveloped stations. The model of working will be of public-private partnership (PPP) mode.”
 
 Facilities on the redeveloped station will include structural changes, building relocation, paintings across stations depicting local culture, concourse for passengers, segregated entries and exits, food and beverage kiosks, water ATMs, ambulance standbys, food vending machines, passenger lounges, underpasses, proper parking facilities, ramps, self-ticketing systems, on spot medical facilities and a host of other amenities.
 
 The divisional railway manager of Bhopal division, Alok Kumar said, “Whether Bhopal station will be counted as an iconic or premier station will be based on the concept created by the developer. By iconic station we mean stations that show the heritage of the respective cities such as Lucknow’s Charbagh station, while New Delhi is a perfect example of a premier station.”
 
 Indian Railways has adopted “Modified Swiss Challenge Method” under which zonal railways will approach the market by soliciting plans and financial models. The technical and financial proposals of potential bidders will be evaluated in the first phase to select the design of the project proponent.
 
 Prabhu urged all the state government representatives present during the conference to be a part of the project.
 
