The   (NGT) has imposed a complete ban on manja (kite string) made of nylon or any non-biodegradable synthetic material, as it poses a threat to humans, birds and animals and is harmful for the environment. The tribunal has directed all state governments to prohibit the “manufacture, sale, storage, purchase and use” of synthetic manja.
The panel also clarified that the ban order would apply to Chinese and cotton manja coated with glass. However, 
 the order excludes pure cotton threads coated with a degradable material.
 
  PETA had filed a petition in the NGT in this regard in August 2016. In December, the tribunal issued an interim ban on the production, sale, procurement and import of all forms of manja and allowed   to be done only with a plain cotton thread. While the kite-flying festival is hugely popular in Mumbai on January 14 and 15, children enjoy it throughout the year. Though one would expect the ban to raise concern among manja manufacturers and sellers, it doesn’t seem to be the case. In fact, most of the shops in areas like Crawford Market, Bandra, Kurla, Vashi and Goregaon have stopped selling Chinese manja and call the ban a blessing in disguise. 
 Says  , who has been in the kite and manja business for the last decade, “It is very good that the Chinese manja or the so-called nylon manja has been banned. By the way, it’s not made in China and is manufactured from nylon products that are thrown away as waste. The demand for Chinese manja has grown manifold in the last five years. The kite flyers used to ask for it as it’s cheaper than the cotton manja and also tougher. After coating ‘masala’ on it, Chinese manja becomes tougher and stronger than the traditional ones. With the ban, our business will improve because the cotton trailors are safe and made from cotton threads. The cotton thread could temporarily disrupt birds’ flight, but it will not harm them. While 12 reels of cotton manja cost about `1,150 and above depending on the quality, 12 reels of Chinese manja cost just about `350 to 500.”
 Ricky Singh, a kite and manja manufacturer based in Vashi, feels that today’s children are flying kites more for the thrill than to play it like a game, which was common a few years back. He says, “The ban does not affect us. Children like flying kites throughout the year and they no longer demand glass or nylon threads for their manja. Also, it is a myth that the cotton manja will be cut easily.” 
 
 Clearing the misconception about Chinese manja, Pradeep Singh, who has a shop in Kurla, adds, “It’s a misconception that Chinese manja is imported from China. It’s items like yarn, staple fibre and man-made filaments that are imported. The word ‘Chinese’ is used as an USP to sell this killer manja.”
 
 While shopkeepers welcome the ban, children and kite enthusiasts also have no issues buying the cotton trailors.  , a shopkeeper, says, “Children are now instructed by their parents and taught in school to save the environment — not buying chinese manja tops their list of to-do things. The only doubt they have is whether the cotton threads are strong enough to cut short the flight of their opponents’ kites.”
 Sahir Verma, who regularly flies kites from his penthouse flat, says, “Initially, I did feel that without the Chinese manja, I will not be able to fly kites the way I used to earlier. But the cotton threads are just as good. Besides, kite-flying is a passion and I don’t see it as a competition. Above everything, there is immense satisfaction in knowing that my kite-flying will not hurt birds from now on. Looking back, I think, I should never have used Chinese manja.” 
 
 
 
 Kites are flown on August 15 in Delhi. Kite flying is believed to be symbolic of the spirit of freedom.
 In Punjab, kites are flown during Basant Panchami
 Kite flying is enjoyed during Onam in South India
 
  
  
 
