AHMEDABAD: Unseasonal rains along with   lashed Ahmedabad city late on Monday evening for the second consecutive day. 

 The rains also brought down the maximum temperature in the city to 41.4C.
 
  The unseasonal rains also uprooted 22 trees, due to which the movement of vehicles on Airport Road, Meghaninagar and Astodia Road came to a halt for some time, said additional chief fire officer, AFES, Rajesh Bhatt.
 
 AFES received 40-odd calls to remove road obstructions and uprooted trees, said Bhatt.
 
  Bhatt said that a woman was injured and seven vehicles damaged when a tree fell on AMTS bus station in Lal Darwaza area. He said that major road obstructions were reported from Airport, Meghaninagar and Astodia roads.
 
 According to reports, several areas like Geratpur and nearby localities reported power failure due to the hailstorm. 
 
 India Meteorological Department ( ) officials said that despite the rains, the city recorded third highest temperature in the state. Surendranagar was highest at 42.3C, while both Rajkot and Amreli both recorded 41.5C. Unruly rains toppled hoardings put up to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi and delegates of African Development Bank Annual Meetings. The grounded hoardings obstructed traffic movement until they were cleared.
 
 The strong winds also blew away the tin roof on vanch gam.
 
 IMD-Gujarat director Jayant Sarkar said the rain and thunderstorm were part of pre-monsoon activity. 
 
 “They were expected, as the winds were blowing from southwesterly to westerly direction. This brings in moisture,” he said. Meanwhile the rains brought relief from the scorching heat. Some citizens set to return home from work stayed back longer, waiting for the rain to subside. “I decided to wait at office till the rain subsided and then leave for home, as I received updates from my friends about the hailstorm,” said Anusha Iyer, a city-based professional.
 
 “Thank god it rained. It was much needed considering the increasing humidity for the past few days,” said Bhargav Korat, a city-based software engineer. “I along with my friends decided to go for a drive and enjoy a cup of tea,” he said.
 
