NAGPUR: Parking charges at east ( ) side of the railway station will go up by 60% from April 1, with new contractor taking over.

 Regular commuters and monthly season ticket (MST) pass holders have flayed the proposed hike as employees too will bear the brunt.
 
 Currently, Rs 5 is charged for six hours for parking at the east side of the station. From April 1, Rs 10 will be charged for the same. For 16 hours, it will be Rs 16, and Rs 35 for 24 hours. Secondly, MST pass holders, who pay Rs 80 per month, will now have to shell out Rs 150, while those paying Rs 160 for the pass will have to pay Rs 300.
 
 “This increase is unjustified,” said railway employees commuting daily between Gondia and Nagpur.
 
 For the past nine months, the parking stand was managed by   employees as the earlier contractor, who was awarded tender till 2017, had left midway citing lack of profits as the key reason.
 
 Senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) KK Mishra justified the hike saying that   have not been revised for the last 5 years. “We have appointed a new contractor after his quotation of Rs 28 lakh for three months was found to be the best bid,” he said.
 
 PRO PD Patil too justified the hike saying parking rates were never hiked in nearly 10 years.
 
 However, MST pass holders alleged that while railways used to give receipts, the earlier contractor never issued receipts. “There is no transparency and we were charged between Rs 150 and Rs 250 by the contractor under the garb of completing the quota of employees prescribed by the railways,” said railway employees.
 
 Mahendra Doke, a regular traveller to Dhamangaon, said platform ticket prices have gone up from Rs 3 to Rs 10. “It appears that the railway administration is helping the contractor and not the common man.”
 
 “Earning profit from such services should not be the motto of the railways. Such services should be offered at bare minimum rates,” said consumer rights activist Avinash Prabhune.
 
 Prabhune said it is strange that for a 125-km journey from Gondia to Nagpur, the railways charge Rs650 per month, but MST pass holders will pay Rs300 just for parking.
 
 
