PUNE: A three-day   is being organized here to celebrate the contribution of late performer   to the   form.

 ‘Sansmaran’ is being put together by Nadroop — a   dance school helmed by dancer Shama Bhate who believes her mother-in-law’s role in the field deserves a tribute.
 
 The festival would be held between January 13 and 15 at Jyotsna Bhole Sabhagruha in Hirabaug, divided into three sessions — 10am to 1pm, 2pm to 4.30pm and 6.30pm to 9.30pm — on each day. It is being organized in collaboration with Maharashtra Cultural Centre, Lalit Kala Kendra and Sangeet Natak Akademi.
 
 Fellow artists, colleagues, family and friends have been invited to commemorate the late dancer’s work, her struggle and persona. Dance scholars, the ones who have seen her at close quarters and her disciples too are expected to talk about her, including Sumitra Bhave, dancer Prerana Shrimali, Suchita Bhide Chapekar, Ustad Usman Khan among others.
 
 Sharing her excitement about the event, Shama Bhate said, “Rohini Bhate was known across the country and her work deserves celebration, especially now three generations later since she performed last—almost 12 years ago. As a discipline, I have some very endearing memories of her as my guru. Recollections of her performing the ‘Aisi Ram Jagat Hithari’ are afresh in my mind — how majestic she looked as Lord Rama, evil as Raavana and vibrant as Shabri, all performed to perfection within a span of five minutes.”
 
 Expressing gratitude at the response from people looking forward to participate in the festival, Bhate said, “It is an extremely rewarding experience for me and shows how much they want to be a part of this memory. It is a celebration of her great artistry, the good human being she was, and how much she could relate with others.”
 
 Dancer Prerana Shrimali of the Jaipur Gharana of Kathak is eager to attend the event. “It is an honour to have this opportunity and I am looking forward to share my interactions with her. She was a dancer par excellence and much beyond the form itself. The credit for the popularity of Kathak in Maharashtra goes solely to her,” she said.
 
 
