NEW DELHI: Giving a boost to Centre’s   programme ‘Mission Indradhanush’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a phase of the scheme in his home state   on October 8. The move is also expected to highlight the central government’s efforts to reduce infant and maternal mortality in Gujarat.
 
  The launch may be held in Rajkot. The Prime Minister recently asked for targeted attention in strict timeframes for 100 worst-performing districts in this regard. He had said youth organisations such as the National Cadet Corps and Nehru Yuva Kendra could be involved in the outreach to ensure no child was left unimmunised.
  
  Official sources said the PM’s involvement will also boost the popularity of Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN), an online real-time vaccine logistics management system developed and implemented by the Ministry of Health and the United Nations Development Programme. Indigenously developed   digitises vaccine stocks and monitors the temperature of the cold chain through a smartphone application and is being presently implemented in 12 states.
  
  
  
  
  Immunisation is known to be the most cost-effective method to prevent disease and death, and the country is known to lose over 500,000 children under the age of two due to diseases preventable by vaccination. Gujarat too has been critiqued for having an immunisation rate lower than several other states.   recently asked for the deputation of more officers on the ground if required to meet the target of 100% immunisation of all children born in the country.
  
  According to sources, his focus has been on 100 most backward districts and he has asked officials to ensure there are no gaps in coverage.  , launched on December 25, 2014, aims at raising vaccination coverage in 201 districts of the country where 50% children were not vaccinated or incompletely vaccinated.
  
  Earlier this year, in an op-ed on convergence between India and the US, the PM hailed collaborative efforts between the two countries especially in finding affordable vaccines for rotavirus or dengue. In a two-day trip to Gujarat this time, the PM will have programmes in Dwarka, Rajkot, Vadnagar (his home town) and Bharuch.
