MUMBAI: Striking a balance between   and  ,   on Friday vacated its order restraining further   for the 33.5km  . However, the stay will continue for another 10 days to enable petitioners to move the Supreme Court in appeal. 

 A bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni vacated the February 9, 2017 order expressing satisfaction at the approach of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL) to undertake every measure to protect the environment and ensure there is no loss of tree cover in all areas affected by construction of stations. It has directed MMRCL to file an undertaking including "to ensure trees equivalent to the number of trees affected (both cut and trees removed for transplant) will be planted in the same area on completion of the station construction work." Also, "for a period of three years thereafter, the transplanted trees will be looked after, safeguarded and maintained." 
 
 The court heard two petitions against proposed felling of 5,000 trees, including one specifically for Churchgate, Hutatma Chowk and Cuffe Parade areas, saying it will have serious impact on the environment and Coastal Regulation Zone clearances are not obtained. But in their 20-page order, the bench said it is prima facie satisfied that MMRCL took essential steps to approach competent authorities under the CRZ notification and to obtain appropriate clearances subject to various conditions.
 
 The bench said the approach to be adopted would be bringing about a balance on both issues, environment on one hand and development of Metro Rail on the other. Also, "it cannot be overlooked that once functional, the Metro Rail III will also help for better environment" and also "facilitate to improve the socio-economic conditions of citizens...If a hard stand, as canvassed by the petitioners is accepted, then it would be impossible to have any development for the betterment of citizens residing in this metropolitan city. We also cannot overlook the far-reaching benefits Metro Rail has provided in other cities like Kolkata, New Delhi and Bangalore," it added.
 
 Admitting the petition for final hearing, the bench appointed officers to oversee compliance of re-plantation and transplantation of trees by MMRCL. After delivering the verdict, the judges said in case of any violation the petitioners can approach the court.
 
 
