PUDUCHERRY: Just as doctors and experts across the country are wrapping up seminars and awareness programmes on international kidney day, three   who were undergoing   at the Indira Gandhi government Medical College and Research Institute died following a sudden  

 Hospital sources said three renal failure patients, Suseela, 73, Amsa, 55, and Ganesan, were undergoing dialysis around noon when power supply was suspended. The dialysis machines they were hooked on to instantly shut down and the hospital’s back-up generators did not restore supply for seven minutes. The two women developed complications and died immediately while Ganesan, who was rushed to the intensive care unit, died without responding to treatment, said director (health and family welfare services) Dr K V Raman.
 
 The dialysis unit, established by the medical college 18 months ago, offers treatment free of cost to patients with end-stage renal disease. Chronic kidney disease is a progressive loss of its function. The tiny nephrons in the kidneys are damaged and the organs can no longer filter toxins in the blood -- a condition called end-stage renal failure. In this stage, patients require dialysis where a machine purifies the blood at least three times a week.
 
 Hospital authorities say the machines they use have adequate back-ups to run without power for at least 20 minutes and the back-up generators restore power in less than a minute. “They both failed. As of now we cannot ascertain the cause of death,” Dr Raman said. Hospital sources said there was a possibility of the three patients having been electrocuted. 
 
 “They could have died soon after the power supply was restored. It may be tough to positively confirm this,” said a senior doctor in the hospital, not willing to be quoted.
 
 Senior nephrologists say poor maintenance of a dialysis machine can lead to dangerous imbalance in the chemicals. “Besides pure water, we use sodium, bi-carbonate, calcium and magnesium in the dialyser. When improper amounts of these chemicals get mixed in the body, it can cause serious complications. For instance, low sodium can lead to cardiac arrest and death,” said Chennai-based senior nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran.
 
 Meanwhile, relatives went on a protest, raising slogans and damaging glass doors in the unit. The hospital authorities suspended the duty doctor and two nurses. They have also formed an inquiry committee with two nephrologists and an engineer, who have been asked to submit a report within 24 hours. “We will initiate stringent action based on the findings,” said Dr Raman.
 
 The relatives of the patients said the hospital did not have adequate infrastructure or specialists, including doctors. The government has announced Rs five lakh compensation to the families of the three deceased patients.
 
 
