CHENNAI: Inspiration can come from the smallest of things, and for 23-year old Amam Arun, it was the stress that a friend's parents underwent that sparked an idea in 2016.

 Arun's friend had been unreachable BIKE TO for a couple of RESCU hours because her Arun wit phone battery had Power run out. This led to anxiety at her home and set Arun thinking.
 
 Pursuing his engineering at SRM University, Arun spent about 2 hours every day to find a solution to such issues which have become routine today. “Power bank sources energy from a battery .I wanted to utilise an existing source of power that can be used to power devices,“ said Arun. After burning 4-5 circuits and his hands, Arun developed a crude device that would source power from the ignition of a two wheeler to charge a phone which he called  . Completing projects for friends and doing other odd jobs, Arun managed to collect funds for his `Power Aid' experiments.
 
 Power Aid is a small device that can be easily affixed to a two wheeler and uses a patent pending technology to channelise the power generated when the bike is on ignition to charge phones. Cyclone Vardah proved to be the ideal testing ground for the product. When most suffered from power cuts, several of Arun's friends used his device to power their phones and houses. Being water proof, the device worked even under tough weather conditions.
 
 When Arun approached investors in October 2016, they asked him to work on the product and present it in a refined manner. With J Govindaraj of Plutus   Advisory Services, Arun worked on the product and understood the market. In December 2016, Govindaraj invested `50 lakhs to help him launch the product in the market. “10-12 crore vehicles run on the roads today . Over 6 lakh autos are sold every year. I've seen the passion and drive of Arun and we are sure that Power Aid will find good adoption in India,“ said Govindaraj.
 
 Arun is targeting the large bike segment in the country. With e-commerce and logistics companies focusing on last mile delivery and Ola and Uber launching their bike taxis, he is confident that the market will grow. Power Aid has 3 institutional customers, Vroom, a Chennai-based bike taxi startup and K bike Taxi besides Dinein. His products are being piloted with several other organisations.
 
 “Delivery boys, sales rep resentatives, traffic policemen use bikes day in and out.Thus having a device like Power Aid attached to the bike can keep them connected,“ he said.
 
 D Vigneshwaran, a sales executive spends about 8 hours on his bike. “I would always have a 100%charge before leaving home and kept a power bank. But, with Power Aid, I don't worry about the battery . Even when there is no electricity at home, I can charge my phone,“ he said.
 
 Besides the enterprise tie ups, Arun has listed Power Aid on Amazon.com. He will also look at markets like Indonesia, Thailand and   with high two wheeler density. In the next 7-8 months, Arun is targeting selling at least 1 million devices a month.
 
