PATNA: Agitated over the 262
  rank awarded to Patna in the Centre’s ‘Swachh Sarvekshan’, or cleanliness survey,   Afzal Imam on Saturday shot off a letter to   director  , asking him to explain the undervaluation or the   capital would not participate in the annual survey from next year.

 Altogether 434 cities from across the country participated in the survey conducted in January-February this year. The rankings were announced by Union urban development ministry on Thursday. 
 
 According to Imam, the Patna Municipal Corporation has been grossly undervaluated. “A team of the Swachh Bharat Mission, which has initiated the survey, visited Patna for an on-the-spot evaluation and for citizens’ feedback. The team was supposed to be here from February 6 to 8. However, it advanced the visit and arrived on February 4 after informing us on February 3 evening,” he said.
 
 Imam said the PMC got 221/500 this year as against 243/500 points last year in the survey’s “on-the-spot” category. “The team members took pictures and highlighted only our ‘negatives’ in their report,” he said.
 
 The Mayor further wrote the 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh was celebrated as Prakashostava in the city from December 25 to January 5. “The cleanliness of Patna was appreciated by one and all, including Sikh devotees and dignitaries who had come from different parts of the country and abroad. The measures initiated for freeing the city of garbage and dirt for Prakashotsava continued even after the celebrations,” he wrote and wondered why still the city was marked less than last year.
 
 “This is demoralising and painful and a jolt to the positive intent with which we were working towards achieving the goals under the Swachh Bharat Mission and making Patna one of the cleanest, if not the cleanest, capital cities,” wrote the Mayor. 
 
 He also expressed dissatisfaction over the zero awarded to Patna in the category of Swachhta App. “No less than 2,000 downloads were made by the city residents... At least 636 of the 668 complaints registered in the app were resolved,” he pointed out.
 
 The Mayor also released to the media a screenshot of the Swachh Bharat Mission website on the last day before the app closure on March 1. It showed Patna’s ranking as 79. “How do you explain our final score of zero then?” he asked.
 
