PATNA: When senior   functionary Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) thanked the RJD during his speech in   assembly on Thursday for his return to deputy CM chair, he was probably indicating how Lalu Prasad’s ‘secret’ gameplan to save his family by offering a deal to the Centre to topple   led Grand Alliance government backfired on him.

 To understand what exactly led to the dramatic turn of events on Wednesday night, in which Nitish changed sides from RJD to BJP within a couple of hours, one has to go back to 2013 when the Bihar CM severed his 17-year-old ties with the BJP as he was opposed to Narendra Modi’s candidature for the Prime Minister.
 
 Nitish’s JD(U), headed by Sharad Yadav then, went to the Lok Sabha election in 2014 alone and performed badly. JD(U) sources claimed that looking at the meagre two seats secured by his party and the ‘Modi wave’, Nitish gave a second thought to his prime ministerial ambitions and started thinking about securing his chair in Bihar in 2015.
 
 Some political observers feel that Nitish even made an attempt to get back to the BJP camp ahead of 2015 elections, but state BJP conveyed to its central leadership that the party does not need Nitish’s face and it would get massive victory in the election, which was later proved wrong. 
 
 However, many in the JD(U) ruled out the claims that Nitish thought of going back to NDA after 2014 elections. “Nitish ji had tried tooth and nail to prove his mettle in Bihar in 2014 Lok Sabha elections but we got only two seats. He was definitely taken aback. In order to ensure his survival in the state, he then decided to get into Mahagathbandhan with RJD and Congress, who were already in alliance in 2014 general elections,” said a senior JD(U) functionary wishing anonymity.
 
 The alliance of Nitish, Lalu and Congress proved beneficial for all three of them as Nitish was able to save his chair and RJD became the single largest party in the state and Congress got an opportunity for its much-needed revival after nearly two decades in Bihar.
 
 The rise of   in 2015 state elections coincided with the fall of SuMo. 
 
 “It was then JD(U)’s former state president Rajeev Ranjan Singh alias ‘Lalan Singh’, who had long-time rivalry with Lalu, came to the rescue of SuMo. He provided all documents related to the various properties amassed by Lalu family, which were already exposed by him and former JD(U) MP Shivanand Tiwari in 2008. Modi, who was politically abandoned by then, started his struggle with allegations of corruption charges on Lalu family one after the other over the past four months, which was ultimately recognized by the central leadership of BJP as well as central agencies,” said a political observer in Patna.
 
 Sources said the repeated action by central agencies made Lalu jittery and he tried to offer a deal to BJP to topple the Nitish government in Bihar in return for Centre’s help in court cases against the RJD chief’s family. Sushil Modi earlier confirmed that Lalu had sent his emissaries to a senior Union minister to make the ‘secret offer’. This apparently alerted Nitish and was probably the flashpoint in the division in Grand Alliance and the Bihar CM lost trust in Lalu.
 
 “The BJP smartly conveyed Lalu’s offer to Centre to Nitish. Nitish ji also feared Lalu could possibly poach JD(U) MLAs. It was then that Nitish ji finally decided to severe his ties with Lalu. Besides, he was already making ground for his return to NDA with moves like support to demonetisation and NDA’s presidential pick Ram Nath Kovind,” said the JD(U) functionary.
 
 Though the final strike was made by Nitish, but political observers seem divided on whether he played the masterstroke against Lalu or it was the BJP, which smartly informed the Bihar CM about the ‘hidden intentions’ of his ‘bade bhai’.
 
 
