Tirupur: Days after the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) temporarily sealed a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) and its member textile dyeing and bleaching units for polluting Noyyal, foam formation in the river in a few places in the city left the residents worried on Tuesday.

 TNPCB officials, however, totally ruled out the possibility of river being polluted by dyeing units and said the foam was the result of sewage discharge into the river.
 
 Residents of Alankadu on Tuesday woke up to see foams along a check dam located next to their houses in Noyyal. “We have never witnessed such huge foam formation while change of water colour was so rampant,” said R Srinivasan, 60, who was residing on the southern bank of the river at Alankadu for more than 30 years.
 
 As the day progressed, the foams enlarged. At one stage, they stagnated at more than 10ft hight of the pillars of Nataraja theatre over-bridge. It kept the TNPCB officials on their feet for most part of the day and some of them had to cover at least 40km river stretch to find out the cause for foam.
 
 “It was disgusting for us to stay in our houses because the foam was flying high and falling into our houses,” said N Jaganathan, 23, another resident of Alankadu.
 
 However, a bunch of boys from the same settlement had a good time playing in the check dam, over 40% of which was covered with the foam.
 
 “The foam formation is clearly due to sewage discharge, mainly by Coimbatore Corporation which directly and indirectly let off 100 million liters of sewage into the river daily. Following the heavy rainfall, all the sewage has landed in this part of the river. And the high content of detergents has caused the foam formation,” a TNPCB higher official told TOI.
 
 “The foam could be seen only after Nallamman check dam at Vettuvapalayam and three other check dams including one at Alankadu. It was because water with high content of detergents was stopped and allowed to flow from height of about 7ft. As a result, air bubbles were formed,” he added.
 
 When the officials tested the level of total dissolved solids in the water, they found 400PPM (parts per million) and 900PPM in the upstream and downstream of the river, respectively. “So, it explains that the foams were not caused by the discharge of industrial effluents into the river,” the official said.
 
 
