NEW DELHI: The Prime Minister’s Office has advanced the deadline for the Centre’s  ,  , by more than a year and asked the health ministry to strive to complete it by December 2018.
 
  It has also asked cabinet secretary PK Sinha to monitor the project on a regular basis. The renewed focus on the mission comes after Prime Minister   reviewed the project threadbare last week at the meeting of the multi-modal platform PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance And Timely Implementation).
  
  The mission, launched in December 2014 by the health ministry, earlier had a deadline of 2020 to provide full immunisation to more than 90% children in the country.
  
  With the next general election due in 2019, early completion of the project aimed at reducing high child mortality rates in India will count among Modi government’s good governance measures.
  
  Mission Indradhanush targets children below two years of age as well as all pregnant women to save them from seven life-threatening diseases which can be prevented by vaccine.
  
  The   has asked states to complete headcount surveys of the intended beneficiaries and focus on urban slums and districts faring the worst in terms of coverage so far.
  
  The government has so far completed three phases of the mission across 497 districts and the fourth phase is on in 68 districts across eight states in the Northeast since February this year.
  
  Mission Indradhanush has led to vaccination of around 2.1 crore children, of which more than 55 lakh children have been fully immunised, the health ministry told the PMO.
  
  In all, 17 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinated with tetanus toxoid under the mission so far. According to the report of Integrated Child Health & Immunization Survey (INCHIS), the first two phases of Mission Indradhanush have led to 5-7% increase in full immunisation coverage of children.
  
  All vaccines in India’s national immunisation programme including recently introduced new vaccines such as inactivated   vaccine and pentavalent vaccine are being provided under Mission Indradhanush to children.
  
  The child mortality rate is high in India owing to prevalence of life threatening diseases such as diphtheria, pertusis, tetanus, poliomyelitis, tuberculosis, measles, hepatitis B, meningitis and pneumonia due to haemophilus influenzae type B. 
