Nagpur: Some of the faces depicted happiness while some had disappointment written over them as the   paper got a mixed response by the students on Wednesday.

 While analyzing the paper, Jaspal Singh, Principal of Guru Nanak High School, said that the paper was an average one. “By average, I mean some of the questions were easy. Those who have studied properly, would find it easy. Some students would find some questions difficult,” he said. 
 
 Ruchi Meshram, whose center was Vande Matram College, seemed satisfied with the paper. “When you are in the examination hall and you see the question paper which is easy, the feeling is almost incomparable. For me, the paper was not lengthy and straightforward. Those who had studied well would have found it easy,” she said. 
 
 Rashmi Seth, another student, was not happy with the paper as she found some questions were quite difficult. “Among the sections, the toughest one I found was the second section. From the second section, short questions were hard and I took a lot of time while solving it. Otherwise, the time was proper to solve the paper. There were more internal questions asked from the core part of the chapters,” she said.
 
 However Rashmi’s friend Mitali Sharma thought otherwise. “I was so relieved as soon as I saw the paper. Each question was familiar to me and I solved the full paper. From the first section, brief question were tricky. But you should expect the paper to be tough as you are solving the paper of board  . I was prepared for it”, she said. Rishab Sinha, a student, said that, it was a moderate paper. “The difficulty level was not that much as most of the questions were from the textbook exercise. Time was also okay. Infact I got one full hour to check my paper. I came out from the examination hall before time.”
 
 Yathartha Bhagatkar, a student, was happy while coming out from the center. “Paper was good. I had prepared from the last year’s question sets and I found that most of the questions were from it. Atleast now I can go home with no tension and can prepare for the next one,” he said. 
 
 
