PATNA: The US consulate general, Kolkata, is conducting anti-trafficking awareness campaign in Araria, Kishanganj, Gaya and Katihar districts in Bihar among the 17 locations in West Bengal and Jharkhand, said US consul-general   here on Friday.

 He was speaking on the opening day of the two-day conclave on ‘Working Together to Combat Human Trafficking’, jointly inaugurated by Bihar labour, employment & training minister   and social welfare minister  . Altogether 16 officials of government and non-government organizations shared their views on how to curb human trafficking at the 6th annual anti-trafficking in persons (TIP) conclave hosted by the US consulate general, Kolkata in collaboration with Shakti Vahini, a NGO.
 
 Hall said human trafficking, which is modern-day slavery, has become an international crime. “The problem is as much serious in India as it is in the US. It is an old problem, but the response is new. Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal share the international borders and are more vulnerable to trafficking than other states. In US, there is a system called database and we are trying to develop one here to keep a record of the trafficking rescuers,” he said.
 
 “Each and every individual case of trafficking is unique and thus demands unique approach for proper rehabilitation of the victim. The data that the state or the central government has is weak. It is only based on the incidents reported to local police stations. It is important to make people aware about the human traffickers. To make people aware about trafficking, we have TIP caravan which covers 17 locations, including in Araria, Kishanganj, Gaya and Katihar districts in Bihar,” Hall said.
 
 “Even in highly developed economies, there is human trafficking. Material poverty does not mean poverty of values. Poverty cannot be an excuse for pushing somebody into trafficking,” Hall added.
 
 Shakti Vahini president   said, “This conclave focused on ensuring dignity, self-respect, protection and individual care plan for rehabilitation of the rescued. The main objective of the programme is to reach out to the young people and engage them in the action to stop human trafficking.
 
 Issues like state responses and law enforcement responses to combat human trafficking and child labour, challenges on the Indo-Nepal border, access to justice for victim support, technological tools to combat human trafficking and comprehensive anti-human trafficking legislation were discussed on the first day of the conclave.
 
