NAGPUR: Aneesa Ali, Priyanka Bansod and Karuna Futane — were felicitated by   on its Civil Lines premises on Tuesday for showing grit in charting out their course of life.

 The programme was organized to commemorate the birth anniversary of social reformer Savitribai Phule. Urmila Dabir, principal of Rajkumar Kewalramani College, was present. 
 
 Sharing her experience, Aneesa Ali, an activist of  , said, “I got married at the age of 15 and we had a within a year. A few months later, I came to know that my husband wanted divorce. I faced a lot of struggle later as even my own family refused to accept me,” she said. A determined Aneesa decided to find a way out and raise her son to be an educated individual. 
 
 Said Aneesa, “I started to sew bags and do odd jobs for a living. I still am facing many restrictions but I decided not to let any situation take control of my life. I enrolled my son in an English medium school and I myself want to study since I left education after marriage.” 
 
 Priyanka Bansod is another woman following the footsteps of Savitribai who faced adverse situations and is now teaching in one of the best institutes, VNIT. “My parents were labourers in MIDC and I am the eldest among three sisters. I had to take care of the house along with my studies in which my mother motivated me a lot. I did MA in English from   and stood first for which I got a gold medal,” she said. “I think there is no bar for a person who is ready to work hard and has determination,” she added.
 
 Karuna Futane, an activist from Wardha, had another inspiring story. On her behalf, her relative Tanmay shared her success story and accepted the memento. 
 
 “Karunatai never went to school or college. According to government records, she is an illiterate. But her thought process was something like a revolutionary. After getting married, she brought together many women to fight for ban on alcohol and make youth aware about its bad effect,” he said. “Today, she is the president of   in her village Gokuri where she is working on various issues related to farming,” said Tanmay.
 
