Wearing a beautiful Kerala sari paired with a glazing green blouse and jasmine flowers on her hair, Surabhi looked a true Malayali manka at the National Awards. After a gap of 14 years, she became the artiste who brought the Best Actress National Award to Kerala, when she accepted it from President  , a few days ago. Posing for selfies with   and   and shaking hands with the best in Indian film industry, what passed was another eventful week for the actress. Surabhi talks about her National Award experience, upcoming projects and more:

 
 
 It was the spirit of Kerala that kept brimming in my heart, during the function. When you sit there, you feel that you never give away this seat to anyone again. ‘Dear God, now on, it should belong only to Mollywood actresses.’
 Though I didn’t get much time to interact with Sonam Kapoor and Akshay Kumar, I could figure that they are genuine, warm personalities.
 
 Adil Hussain, who also sat near us, told me that he has been to Kerala to learn Koodiyattam and the breathing exercises that go with it. Then, njanum durbar ragathil oru alakkalakki (laughs) about Koodiyattam, as I have also learnt about it while doing theatre. With everything I know, I took a mini class for him!
 
 
 
 
 She is a sweetheart! Sonam told me that her best friend is from Kerala and so, she has a special affection for the State. Her boyfriend had also come for the event and she introduced me to him. She also gave me some sweets. I was happy when she told me, ‘Aren’t you wearing the traditional Kerala attire? It’s really beautiful!’
 
 
 
 
 When I was in fifth or sixth grade, I lied to my mom that I am going to play in my friend’s house and went to watch Akshay Kumar’s Khiladiyon Ka Khiladi in Dinesh Talkies, Kozhikode. I used to go for his films either alone or with someone from my neighbourhood, who went to the movies. I told Akshay all of this and he laughed. Post that, we took a selfie together.
 
 I also told him how I remember the popular ad ‘Rough and Tough Vaangu! Rough and Tough Dharikku’ (imitating Akshay Kumar’s voice), and I guess that cracked him up. Every time an award was given to someone in Mollywood at the function, I would applaud excitedly and he would ask, ‘Oh is that your film?’ I would reply, ‘No sir, it’s my brother’s film.’ When he asked it for the second time also I said, ‘No sir, it’s another brother’s film.’ He might have thought, Malayalam cinemayokke ivalude aangalamaarano edukkunnathu (Are all Malayalam movies directed by her brothers?)
 
 When my turn came, he asked me, ‘How many movies have you starred in?’ and I said, ‘Sir, this is my first full length movie, and the one as a heroine.’ He followed it up with a big congratulation again. Maybe, he felt a bit of respect for me at that point.
 
 
 
 The day before the awards, there was a rehearsal of the exact function, which gives you directions as to when to go to receive it, where to wait etc. There would even be a dummy President and the other officials, with a brief announcement on the details of your project. I was so excited to even accept the award from the fake President, thanks to the atmosphere they create there. It’s beyond words.
 
 Even when I met the President for real, whom I have seen only on TV, I was so thrilled to have got a chance to stand near him, so close. My name was called out second last, before Akshay’s. Everyone from Malayalam stood up to cheer me on and that gave me goosebumps. When they said ‘Minna-minun-gu’ in the typical Hindi pronunciation, I was beyond thrilled. I thought about everyone who played a part in my career, till that moment.
 
 
 
 
 Lal sir had called me to congratulate for the award, earlier. While at the National Awards, I thought that he would be staying at another star hotel, but he was in the same as mine, with loads of security. I met him for the first time when I got out to have breakfast. He was with his wife Suchithra and friend.
 I was also planning to launch my website the next day and I just wanted to tell him about it. However, when I met him, I asked him whether he can launch my website and he said, ‘Of course! You can come to our room when needed.’ When I went there, he asked, ‘Do you have a computer?’ I said, yes and ran to get it. When he launched my site, I felt like I got my second National Award.
 
 Also, when he was accepting the award, all of us were thrilled much more than our own awards. We continued applauding till he got back to his seat.
 
 
 
 Yes, but it’s not due to the number of projects I am handling, but the appreciation meets and interviews after the award. What I crave for is to stay engaged due to quality projects coming my way and doing the work that I love. I am aware that the current state of affairs is only temporary.
 
 
 
 As the Best Actress National Award is coming to Kerala after 14 years, I wanted to represent our State aptly. In Olympics, we see that Indian women always wear sari at the parade and similarly, I wanted to uphold my tradition. My friends Sabari and Unni helped me look like the true Malayali Manka at the venue. Sabari got the special sari material and got it woven in Kudapur.
 
 Jury member Bhawana Somaaya also asked me how it’s worn and even expressed interest to have a dress like this. I wish to get her address from Priyadarshan sir and send her a Kerala sari. Even volunteers came and complimented me for the dress.
 
 After having played Pathu of M80 Moosa for about 3 and half years, have you actually started talking like her for real? Your interviews sound like it…
 When I speak in an interview, like anyone else, I would try to sound refined and formal. However, that is not the case when I speak informally or when I am excited. I sound a lot like Paathu, who is a common woman from Kozhikode, just like me. When I speak from my heart, that is how I converse. 
 
 
 
 
 Most films that come to me now are preceded with the line, ‘This is a project that can fetch you an award!’ I have never done a movie thinking it should win me any laurels. With Minnaminungu, it just happened. All I wanted was to do a good film for my profile. I believe that if you start doing movies for awards, cheithu cheithu kulamaakkum. It would be like asking the audience, Nannaittonnu kalakki oru glass koodi tharatte?
 
 
 
 
 I have taken up a film by director Vidhu Vincent, which will have Rima Kallingal and I in prominent roles. It’s expected to start rolling in August. I am also in discussions for some other projects.
 
