VARANASI: The UP government came under renewed fire on electricity supply from none other than Union minister of state (independent charge) for power  , after power was suddenly disrupted at a   he was addressing in the city on Tuesday.

 Joining Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, Goyal was prompt to target Akhilesh government through a tweet. “Saugandh Ganga Maiyya ki, aaj Kashi mein samwaddata sammelan ke dauran bijli gul dekh kar Sapa ke khokhale dawon ki pol khul gaye (I swear by Mother Ganga, the hollow claims of SP got exposed when I saw power cut during a press conference in Kashi),” tweeted Goyal after the episode at BJP Media Cell where he was addressing the reporters.
 
 Goyal also cited data while accusing the state government of discrimination in electrification and power supply. “The chief minister claims that there is 24-hour power supply in the state. Facts were collected in a survey conducted by an NGO a week before and after polling in different areas. It was found that the power supply was normal before polling, but after it frequent power cuts were noticed,” said Goyal.
 
 “In its probe report, a high-powered committee had pointed out that discrimination on religious ground was found in implementation of Deen Dayal Gram Jyoti Yojna in eight village of Moradabad,” Goyal told reporters. On the complaint of Moradabad MP, a high-level committee had visited eight villages of the district on July 22 last to have a first-hand feel of the situation.
 
 “Many other MPs also contacted me with similar complaints that the areas populated with particular caste and religion are facilitated with power supply and electrification. It is a very serious matter and shows the biased attitude of the state government,” Goyal said.
 
 “However, the UP government in its written reply had said that no discrimination is done in providing power connection,” he conceded.
 
 The minister claimed that the Akhilesh government is not serious about UP’s development as is evident from the fact that it did not sign a comprehensive power agreement. “UP is the only state in the country that did not sign the ‘Power for all 24x7’ agreement, which aims at providing uninterrupted power supply to all by August 2022,” he said.
 
