DEHRADUN: When a helicopter descended upon  , a tiny village in   district, one morning, it was nothing short of a historic moment for its 600-odd residents. None of them had ever seen anything like the aircraft, and also, it was the first time since Independence that a chief minister had come to visit the remote settlement located en route to the Khatling glacier.

 Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat’s December 22 visit to the village, to lay the foundation stone for some projects, came on the threshold of elections in the hill state.
 
 Like Gangi, dozens of villages on the fringes of Uttarakhand that still lack basic amenities like electricity and roads find themselves on politicians’ campaign trail, only to be forgotten once the elections are over.
 
 As the campaign season hots up, netas of all hues are paying a visit to the several nondescript villages, bringing with them promises of all kinds. “In the past few weeks, many aspiring legislators have visited villages in  , asking residents to vote for them in case they get a ticket. The public is, however, fed up with such leaders. who vanish after elections,”  , a political activist from Rudraprayag, said.
 
 Manmohan Semwal, a resident of Purola town in   district, said, “Candidates campaigned here during the 2012 elections and made tall promises in their manifestos. Now, five years have passed and they are back at our doorstep to seek votes, but where is the development they promised?” Residents of many hill constituencies said that their MLAs, too, visited them rarely, choosing instead to set up base in the plains. But with the polls close by, the representatives have begun trekking to these forgotten places to “connect with people”.
 
 Some MLAs TOI spoke to said visits to their constituencies were few due to the lack of infrastructure and the rough terrain. “There are over 12 villages in my constituency, which are almost inaccessible.
 
 I was able to visit Dhunda and Kothar villages a couple of times ... It is more than a day’s trek to these villages,” Yamkeshwar MLA Vijaya Barthwal said. Former Kedarnath MLA Shaila Rani Rawat said she regularly visited the villages in her constituency. “People cannot be ignored,” she added.
 
