The curtains have risen for the 15th edition of the National Theatre Festival in Trivandrum and providing a visual and intellectual treat to the audience will be 17 plays, from all over the country. 

 The nine-day theatre carnival, organised by Information and Public Relations Department (I&PRD) features plays in nine regional languages including Malayalam. The Tagore Theatre will be welcoming art lovers with the productions, with themes ranging from atrocities against Dalits to issues faced by women and sexual minorities. Two plays each will be staged daily at 6pm and 8pm respectively, till March 24. Here is a glimpse into this year’s highlights.
 
 
 
 The theatre fest this time has been dedicated to one of the doyens of Indian theatre, the late Kavalam Narayana Panicker. Santhosh Kumar A, Deputy Director I&PRD, and one of the event co-ordinators, says, “Kavalam’s directorial venture, Madhyama Vyayogam, a Sanskrit play, is also included in the event. Since this year marks the 60th anniversary of the formation of the State, special focus has been given to plays from Kerala, with six Malayalam plays. The plays will be staged at the outdoor stage which has been named after Kavalam sir.”
 
 
 
 The opening show was none other than Legends of Khasak, the theatrical adaptation of the celebrated Malayalam novel, Khasakkinte Ithihasam. The mesmerising production was held in the open air, and it was staged for three consecutive days at a special venue at the Government Central School ground, Attakulangara. The play, directed by Deepan Sivaraman, saw 26 artistes under the KMK Smaraka Kala Samiti from Trikkarippur in Kasaragod district depicting the imaginative land and people of Khasak on stage. With breath-taking lighting schemes, pulsating music scores by Chandran Veyyattummal, video screens as props and puppetry, the director presented to the audience an unconventional theatrical experience. 
 
 The play, says Deepan, was an outcome of more than a decade’s effort. “We complete our 27th stage with this festival. The artistes are all local actors and we rehearsed in the outskirts of Trikkarippur to get the rustic feel of Khasak. I have tried to give life to those characters which were buried inside the pages of the novel.” The artistes who portrayed the roles range from daily-wage workers and government employees to doctors. The three-hour-long play portrays Islamic folk culture and various philosophical aspects of life and also involves spectators in its acts.
 
 Priyadarshini KV, a government school teacher says, “The play made us fall in love with Naijamali, Kuppu Achan, Maimoona, Allappicha Mollakka and Appukkili all of whom I want to see in real. Now the faces of these characters will come to my mind when I re-read the novel. The scene of the nikkah virunn of Maimoona was interesting as they served food to the audience seated in the front row for real.”
 
 
 
 The six Malayalam plays in the fest are adaptations of renowned literary works. The play 12 Machines directed by Kannan Unni A, attempts to explore an individual’s conflicts with society, who are imagined as machines. The new-age play was told through 12 episodes structured like advertisements. Oru Enthinu Enthinu Penkutty is a play directed by Aliyaar K which is an adaptation of The Why-Why Girl by renowned Bengali writer, Mahasweta Devi and brings to the fore issues of class and gender inequalities. Charithrapusthakathileku Oredu by Jose Koshy is a throwback to the 1960s in the State when cycle yajnams (cycling in a small space for prolonged periods) were a source of great entertainment. The fourth play Ekantham by Sreejith Ramanan deals with contemporary realities of life. 
 
 The final day will witness two plays, Kaali Natakam by Chandradasan and Chillara Samaram by Arunlal. Kaali Natakam was lauded for its rich presentation at the recently concluded International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK) at Thrissur. Actress Sajitha Madathil depicts Kaali on stage, throwing light on caste discrimination in contemporary society. The play, Chillara Samaram places emphasis on the body language of actors, which is derived from rural folk art forms like Chavittu Kali and Ayyappan Vilakku.
 
 
 
 A major highlight of the festival is the Manipuri play Pebet, presented by the celebrated Manipuri theatre group Kalakshetra, founded by the late Heisnam Kanhailal. The play is a tribute to the great master who passed away last year. The 1975 play, regarded as one of the most acclaimed political plays of Manipuri theatre, has travelled far and wide. Another top pick is the Mahabharata, directed by Anurupa Rai. The play explores a man’s unending desires through the characters of the epic, Mahabharata.
 
  Drawing the public’s conscience to transgenders, the play Santaap, directed by Sandip Bhattacharya exhorts society to accept them. “The play is inspired from the novel of the same name by Manab Chakraborthy. The main character Murali saves a physically challenged child and decides to take care of it. While doing so, a feeling of motherhood arises in her. I have tried to showcase another dimension of the hijada community thus. I hope it will be a tool to change society’s perceptions towards the transgenders,” says Sandip.
 
 The carnival also has included two solo acts, a Marathi play, Tichya Aaichi Gosht Arthat Mazya Anthvanicha Phad and a Hindi play, To Kill Or Not To Kill. According to the director of the Marathi solo act, Rajashree Sawant Wad, the play is a portrayal of the life of a Lavani artiste. “Thamasha artistes were a part of the indigenous culture of Maharashtra. The play was challenging as it involves Lavani dance, narration, singing and acting of multiple characters at the same time. But for an artiste it’s a great opportunity to reveal the actor inside him. I’m also trying to depict how talented Lavani artistes are. The community is slowly vanishing now as they have no financial support and most of them are uneducated,” adds Rajashree. To Kill Or Not To Kill is based on William Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Euripides and Medea.
 
