BHOPAL: There are   in the city being used to run  . And   in upscale area are being used as a front to run flesh trade! Cops learned the numbing reality to their horror on Saturday night after a girl spilled the beans on the sleaze. 

 The “racket” would have continued, if the college girl, who was taken to a house of a doctor in E-5 Arera Colony, did not show courage to squeal on   of those behind it. When some agents were trying to bulldoze her into prostitution for money, she managed to make a call to dial-100 vehicle. Soon, three people, Ashutosh, two women:   were arrested for kidnapping the college girl and bringing her to the house in Arera Colony.
 
 The girl student needed money to buy a two-wheeler and the two women took her to Ashutosh, son of a doctor, who resides in his house in E-5 Arera Colony, police said. 
 
 Habibganj police station SHO Ravindra Yadav told TOI the trio are into flesh trade. Gang’s kingpin, Dhananjay managed to escape. The three were interrogated to learn about the network in the city, he said.
 
 Police said there are 12 middlemen like Ashutosh. Each one of them has at least 10 to 12 girls in their net. The agents are interconnected and based on the demand of customers they supply girls and even send girls out of city, on demand
 
 Cops expect more details as other members of the gang are nabbed, police said. Police suspect many such rackets are being run in Bhopal, particularly from posh areas in new city. Those operating racket have links with hotels of MP Nagar area where clients and girls get rooms with no difficulty.
 
 Talking about modus operandi, cops said, kingpins and agents, many of them from influential families, target small-town girls studying in Bhopal and in need of money.
 
 Women agents into flesh trade identify and befriend innocent girls and start taking them to kingpin. Targeted girls are later taken to pubs and bars and introduced to people, including clients.
 
 Later, they are sweet-talked, to go on a date for a night with a man showing interest in them and promised money, a couple of thousands, for some hours the two spend together.
 
 Pubs and bars are the places where these girls gather in small groups in posh city areas. Either, customers go there or picture of girl is circulated through WhatsApp.
 
 The money received through customers is divided into three parts. One part is given to a girl, the rest is kept between kingpin and agents.
 
 Ashutosh told cops he was supposed to leave for a pub with Sana and the girl when police raided his house and nabbed him. His family stays in the same house. The family refused to comment on alleged trade being run from their house.
 
 Ashutosh reportedly told police his house was only for meetings and it was not used for flesh trade. The man is trying to mislead cops and when he is interrogated, he says he is a heart patient and has trouble sitting, police said.
 
 “To ensure that girls do not run away, gang members would even make obscene videos of girls. There are pictures of a number of girls on mobile phones of arrested accused,” police said. All angles are being verified.
 
