NOIDA: Mahagun Moderne’s decision to shut the door on some   has divided opinion in the housing society that witnessed a mob attack last Wednesday over a domestic help’s claim that she was thrashed, with a section of residents questioning the basis of the decision.

 A resident, one among several who spoke to TOI on the issue on Monday, said the condominium had banned the entry of 81 maids, not 60 as claimed on Sunday, for their alleged involvement in the July 12 stone-throwing and violence. The resident, who did not wish to be named, described it as a witch-hunt against a group of people belonging to   in West Bengal.
 
 “Domestic helps, mostly belonging to Cooch Behar, were scanned and banned. Most of the maids are Bengali-speaking Muslims, and around 20 of them are Hindus. Some of them may be from other states. But these maids have been picked up randomly and not entirely based on any CCTV footage of electronic evidence,” said the resident.
 
 Zohra Bibi, the maid who claimed to have been thrashed and confined by her employer, is from Cooch Behar, as are most of her neighbours who live in the slum from which several maids go to work at Moderne and other housing societies in the region. The slum is in Sector 78, opposite Antriksh Golf View 1, a few hundred metres from Moderne.
 
 Police have said Zohra’s allegations were false and have arrested 13 people for the mob violence. The mob had vandalised the ground-floor house of the Sethis, Zohra’s employers. Zohra was, meanwhile, found in another flat, in a different tower, by security guards. 
 
 A 28-year-old maid who lives in Barola village said her name had also appeared on the list, though she had no role in the violence.
 
 “I live in Barola and work in five houses in Moderne. There was chaos at the society when I reached last Wednesday. The mob had come from Sector 78 and I was not part of it.”
 
 She also said her employer believes and trusts her. 
 
 “My employer called me on Monday to a place near the society, picked me up in her car, and entered the society. I worked there and then she dropped me outside safely,” she said.
 
 A resident involved in issuing the list said it was prepared after scanning CCTV footage.
 
  “There were residents and security guards present at the spot and saw maids going on the rampage. They also suggested names of suspected persons, who were banned. We have prepared the list without any regional, religious or other bias,” said the resident, requesting anonymity.
 
 Police said they had not been consulted about the list. SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh said residents were free to decide whom to hire as maids. “This is their personal matter. We will further scan footage and if we find these maids involved in violence, we will take action against them,” he said.
 
 
