MUMBAI: They vow to prove that it is not just marathon hearings or big ticket or sticky corporate negotiations that they prepare for.

 On Sunday, several members of the bar, solicitors, law firm partners and independent counsels—Prem Rajani,  ,  ,  ,  , Divya Murthy and   among a few others—will don sneakers and running shorts, instead of black shoes and black coat or robe to raise the bar for themselves and enjoy the inclusive Mumbai spirit.
 
 Rajani, managing partner of  , is just days short of turning a fit 50. A false cholesterol scare three years ago prompted him to step out of a sedentary lifestyle, end late night dinners with clients and take the advice of his "regular walker" wife, Supriya, and a doctor to experience the fresh air on Marine Drive at sunrise. “I would initially only walk 4 km, then began running half a kilometre, soon managed up to 10 km. That was December 2013." Then Rajani, a Cuffe Parade resident, met a youth who pushed him out of his comfort zone again. “Keep Rs 100 in your pocket. Run as far as you can and take a cab ride back” was the advice that worked. “My run was from NCPA to Hanging Garden. But on my way back, I kept adding new short targets to avoid having inadequate cab fare. And soon I ran all the way back.” 
 
 
  
 
 
 There was no looking back for him then. Be it a sunny or a rainy day, he no longer cringes. This will be Rajani's third Mumbai Marathon. He wants to beat his earlier best of 2 hours 11 seconds to go sub 2 for the half marathon and upgrade from stuck-at- C category to B. The Satara hilly Marathon last September was a good training ground, he says. 
 
 Running, for this solicitor and corporate lawyer as for others of his ilk, gives "the me time" which he says “allows me to focus, think clearly, find solutions to a case I may have been struggling with the day before and strategize better for the day ahead”.
 
 Most lawyers who are running the marathon pointed at similar “benefits”. Maitra, 34, from the law firm  , handles litigation practice on weekdays and trains on Sundays with the Striders. “Training regularly with proper exercise for the past year has helped me run better and allowed me to make new friends from other walks of life. I ran the Delhi half last November. This is my first Mumbai Marathon," she says. 
 
 While some lawyers like Bharucha, a counsel, have to jog at times from courtroom to courtroom in the Bombay high court, Maitra makes a dash from chambers to court regularly. Her colleague, Basheer, a partner at the firm who handles banking and finance, has been running “since boarding school days”. He continued running for the “health benefits” and the marathon will be a small reunion with old Ooty school mates, including his brother, joining him for the 21 km run. Basheer says, “I hope to complete it in less than 2.5 hours. It will be a ‘personal accomplishment’ that’s just as enjoyable as closing a large deal.”
 
 Murthy, 37, an in-house counsel for Reliance Industries, plans to better her best time of 2 hours 4 minutes as she takes part in her second Mumbai marathon on Sunday. Kini, who along with lawyer wife Els Reyner has run several half marathons, may go it alone this year. “Running gives you a sense of freedom,” he says. Others agree.
 
 While many lawyers do the half marathon, Menon, a partner with Desai & Diwanji, the law firm that represents Tata Sons ousted chairman Cyrus Mistry's companies, will run the full marathon. It’s his fourth run. “I had closed at 4.29. Now, I am aiming for 4.15 this time,” he says. For the 44-year-old Menon too, running and sports have been habits since school and as a lawyer the advantages, he says, are many. “It's a solitary form of sport. Gives you time to think clearly and makes the mind sharper,” he says. 
 
 Another large law firm partner Yash Ashar from Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, too, takes his running as seriously as his work. he says, he wants to reduce his time of 1 hour 40 minutes.
 
 As Asia's biggest marathon gets set to take off at the crack of dawn, for these legal eagles as with all other professionals accountants, doctors, writers, bankers and engineers, the unanimous verdict is that it's attraction lies in the focus apart from added health benefits including flat abs, that running brings into their professional lives.
 
 
