PATNA: Bihar water resources department (WRD) minister   alias Lalan Singh on Wednesday warned  , Uttar Pradesh,   and   against the cascading effect of   and decrease in water carrying capacity of the Ganga in their states due to Farakka barrage. 

 A week before the Bihar WRD’s proposed two-day national conference to be held in Delhi from May 18, the minister said Farakka barrage would also afflict these states with floods in the next few decades, as the symptoms had already started showing. He said the Centre has not taken any concrete step to stop siltation in the Ganga caused by Farakka barrage. He said CM   had sought PM Narendra Modi’s intervention soon after the devastating flood caused by the Ganga in the state last year.
 
 Recently, Union WRD minister Uma Bharti, while in Patna, said siltation in the Ganga was not because of Farakka barrage. “Faced with such an approach of the Centre, we are holding the two-day conference in Delhi to make it a national issue. We will pursue our campaign till a solution is found,” said Singh. 
 
 The Delhi conference is an extension of the two-day meet here in February this year and ‘Patna Declaration’ was adopted to be pursued in the mode of Ganga River Rejuvenation Mission at the national level. It had called for Ganga River Rejuvenation Mission Policy and its implementation.
 
 While CM Nitish Kumar would inaugurate the Delhi meet, an invitation has also been extended to West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and water experts in the country. Also, on a request from WRD minister, Bihar assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary has requested the Speakers of the four state assemblies to send four MLAs each to the Delhi conference.
 
 The Centre set up Madhav Chitale Commission to look into the problem. It accepted the siltation problem was real, but recommended a detailed study to be conducted by the Ganga Flood Control Commission (GFCC). “As far as our experience with GFCC goes, it will take 300 years to submit its report,” Lalan said. 
 
 He said Farakka barrage has also been afflicting Malda and Murshidabad districts in West Bengal with flood, leading to displacement of people who have been forced to construct their houses, by their own admission, four times by now. “The siltation and flood will also afflict other states,” he added.
 
 
