After having done a couple of serials and films in Kannada,   has now become popular playing the lead role in the revenge fantasy  . We caught up with her on the set of the serial for a short chat:

 
 They were making this serial as a Tamil-Kannada bilingual, and some assistants who were from   had recommended my name to   C sir, who is producing this serial. He had asked me to come to Chennai. Actually, I didn’t even have to audition. Once he saw me and my body language, he said I would be perfect for the role. I was not confident to accept it because this is a big production, but he gave me the confidence to do it.
 
 
 I had to prepare myself for the role. I was on the heavy side before and had to lose 6-7kg for this project. Neither the director Raj Kapoor nor the producer asked me to, but I felt the character should look this way. And it was a little difficult for me to lose weight. Initially, I also faced some difficulties shooting for the Tamil version as I was not that familiar with the language. But now, I can breeze through it. For the first time, I’m seeing so many people on the set. Raj sir has directed films, too. He is quite strict when it comes to work. Usually the day’s starting and finishing shots are mine.
 
 
 The team has been supportive throughout. I was told that I should feel free to discuss my issues. They wanted me to be comfortable as the role is integral to the serial and they felt external factors shouldn’t disturb my performance.
 
 
 There are times when it is difficult because it is hard to get the same expression again, especially for a length shot or an emotional scene. Also, since my mother tongue is Kannada, I earlier struggled a bit while shooting the scenes in Tamil, but now, it has become completely ulta. I find that, for some reason, I’m starting to speak in Tamil while delivering my lines in Kannada (laughs).
 
 
 I was acting in regular serials, and was playing village belle kind of roles. But these roles were all positive. But with this serial, I have both positive and negative shades to my role, and this has shown people that   can pull off complex characters. Playing the good Ganga was very easy, but when she transforms into Nandini, it was a little tough for me to pull off that transformation initially. All credit should go to Raj Kapoor sir. I’ve been scolded many times by him. Paravailla. Now, I realise he was doing it for my sake.
 
 
 As I told you, it’s completely like a movie, especially in the way the costumes are designed and the glamour is brought out.   ma’am designs all my costumes, from the saris and jackets to accessories and everything I wear on the serial.
 
 
 Oh, people are so loveable here. Only when I went out to places here did I realise the reach that the serial has given me. It is an expensive production, with visual effects and grand sets. I don’t even feel like I’m doing a serial; it’s like I’m shooting for a movie. It is definitely the biggest project in my career so far.
 
 
 Yes, I’m aware of that (laughs). I am getting a lot of friend requests on my social media page, even from countries like   and  . There are also people commenting that ‘I watch the serial only because of you’. And when I go to malls here — I go mostly with my Nandhini team because a couple of them are also from Bangalore — and people come and talk to us and take pictures. This is the first time I’m seeing such a reception and I feel so happy for it. I didn’t even think I would become this popular.
 
