CHANDIGARH: For the first time in a decade, Punjab has managed to bend the fatal road accident curve with a 14% dip in number of lives lost this year, contrary to an annual increase of 6% in the previous years.   on  , tackling of black spots and steps taken by the local authorities during assembly polls have helped reduce the number of deaths, say officials.

 According to figures compiled by the state government, 1,765 people died in accidents in the first five months of 2017 while the number was 2,052 for the cor responding period in 2016.Compared to the corresponding period last year, out of 27 police districts and commissionerates, 18 showed decline in accident deaths. These include Faridkot with 62% decrease in fatal accidents, Moga 45%, Ludhiana Rural 38%, Mansa 41%, Jalandhar (Commissionerate) 26%, Kapurthala 23% and Khanna 21%.
 
 Additional DGP (Traffic) M K Tiwari, who has been promoted as DGP and posted as  , told TOI: “The change is primarily due to better enforcement of traffic rules.“ There are sustained drives being carried out in cities like Ludhiana and Mohali. As many as 1,012 two-wheeler drivers were challaned for riding without helmet in Ludhiana on a single day recently ,“ said Tiwari.
 
 “At the same time, reports are being sought from the local police chiefs whenever there is a major accident in their area and corrective steps are taken immediately .A database is being compiled to work on the vulnerable areas and accident-prone black spots in the state are also being tackled. All this is having an effect,“ he added.
 
 “The decrease in accidents must be due to the ban on sale of liquor on highways as it curbed the tendency of impulsive buying and once drunk, the driver often ignores traffic rules. A similar trend (dip in fatal casualties) has been reported from Nagpur in news reports and it confirms that the ban had an impact,“ said   of NGO ArriveSafe that fought a legal battle for the ban on liquor vends on highways.
 
 Apart from the liquor ban on highways putting brakes on drunken driving, the decline in fatal traffic accidents is also due to the assembly elections. Polls brought the government machinery on its toes and an indirect benefit that accrued for the general public was a considerable 9% dip in number of deaths in fatal accidents in January .
 
 The state government has also started putting up signages at several places, warning commuters about vulnerable points and ensuring that traffic does not merge at dangerous points, especially at night.
 
 “About 150 black spot improvements by   and   (PRBDB), zig-zag to cut down speed at specific stretches, daily monitoring, liquor ban on highways, all of this resulted in a substantial decline in fatal road accidents in a single year. All neighbouring states are still struggling with a rise in road deaths, while Punjab has done it,“ added Punjab's traffic adviser Navdeep Asija.
 
 Last Wednesday , Punjab cabinet had decided to set up a Rs 100-crore Road Safety Fund, in accordance with the Supreme Court guidelines of 2016, to enhance public safety on the roads and to minimise road fatalities. The fund would be set up by diverting 50% of the compounding fee collected by road enforcement agencies, including police and transport departments. It will be on the pattern of a similar fund created by Kerala in 2007. Under the policy , the operators would also have to ensure that CCTV cameras are installed inside buses plying in the state and (those from outside) entering the state. Besides spreading road safety awareness, the fund will be utilized to enable automatic detection of overspeeding and overloading of vehicles.
 
 
