PATNA: There was a sudden change not only in city weather but also in the mood of Patnaites who thronged in large numbers to enjoy the   near Children’s Park at   Sunday morning.
 
  A 
  initiative in association with  , the third leg of Happy Streets in the city provided fun with fitness mantra for full three hours, beginning with the melodious tunes of flute, sitar and acoustic guitar played by Salim, Nishant and Shubham of the Patna Music Circle. An impromptu bhajan recital by Debashree set the mood of those attending the yoga session under the guidance of senior   lawyer Alok Agarwal.
  
  While   resident and Inner Wheel Club of Patna secretary Biba Charan Pahari was mesmerized by the various activities and wanted Happy Streets every Sunday, former PMCH HoD of anaesthesiology Dr Grijesh Kishor Sinha came all along from Kankarbagh to be a part of the event. “I had participated in the Happy Streets event near Gandhi Maidan two weeks back and really liked the concept,” he said.
  
  Many parents with their wards enjoyed cycle ride by just showing a TOI copy. Not only cycling, kids also enjoyed various other games without any fear of vehicular traffic on that stretch of the road. While girls were ecstatic hitting the balls bowled by their parents, children were thrilled over scoring goals in the football zone.
  
  There were young boys and girls skating on the road and many of them even playing hockey with the roller skates on their feet. Those enjoying around could not miss Achintya KJ (11) playing musical keyboard while skating and six-year-old Hardik Tibriwal continuously hula-hooping with perfect balance.
  
  A stall in the Deutsch zone offered a bookmark to each winner for correctly guessing a German word in English while a street play by NIFT Patna students on moral policing won a huge round of applause.
  
  The digital natives had an opportunity to win a smart phone by clicking a selfie with a Virat Kohli cut-out in the background. Neeraj Mehta and Raja Rajput were the two lucky winners.
  
  Zumba and aerobics on various Bollywood numbers attracted people of all the age groups. Archana Rani (47) of the same locality was all praise for the event. She enjoyed almost all the events before tapping her feet on ‘Badri Ki Dulhaniya’.
