NEW DELHI: The   government did score points for promptly reacting to emergency air pollution episodes with measures never attempted earlier such as restricting cars on roads to alternate days. And for the first time, the government closed schools for three days last November, prohibited use of diesel generators, halted construction and demolition activities, even shut down the Badarpur thermal power plant for nearly the entire winter. However, while these steps established the government’s intent to address the problem of poor   in Delhi, experts are disappointed that no lasting solutions have been proposed or implemented.

 In April last year, chief minister   announced the government would buy over 3,000 buses to improve the public transportation system so fewer private cars would need to run on the roads. But the buses have not arrived. The government also had ample time to implement street design changes make roads pedestrian and cyclist-friendly, but nothing tangible has been attempted.
 
 “During the winter of 2015-16, there was a lot of optimism.   was only six months in power and had listed a number of action points, including implementing the odd-even road scheme,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment. “But the measures were not sustained past that winter. The government went into reactive mode, announcing emergency measures but with little focus on big-ticket solutions like public transport and street design.”
 
 Such reactive measures included the bizarre announcement that giant air filters would be installed at busy traffic intersections to reduce localised pollution. Most experts TOI had spoken to had felt this was both a cosmetic as well as ineffective solution. The government also considered cloud seeding to create rain during the heavy smog in November, another idea roundly criticised as impractical and expensive. “Instead of such knee-jerk ideas, the government should focus on strict enforcement of policies such as prohibiting waste burning and others solutions suggested by IIT Kanpur in its emissions inventory,” said Sunil Dahiya, air pollution campaigner, Greenpeace.
 
 Amit Bhatt, urban mobility expert, World Resources Institute, said that he had been impressed with AAP’s election manifesto paying a lot of attention to public transport. “Its odd-even scheme managed to establish the importance of controlling traffic emissions, but why didn’t it build on it by acquiring an adequate number of buses and mainstreaming some of these policies?” he wondered.
 
 Looking forward, with the centre’s graded response action plan to deal with pollution emergencies in force, there is no longer a need for Delhi government to react with temporary steps. It can instead use the scantily used Air Ambience Fund of more than Rs 800 crore to put in place more permanent anti-pollution measures. In its own booklet on two years of governance, AAP has listed initiatives such as Car-Free Day, ban on firecrackers, subsidy to all battery-operated vehicles and a subsidy of Rs 30,000 to e-rickshaws.
 
 
