MUMBAI: Forced into a corner after another chief minister from his party announced a mega farm loan waiver, CM   told the state assembly that his government will study the Uttar Pradesh model for the relief.

 “It was expected the issue would be raised in the House, so in the morning I asked the finance secretary to study the UP model of loan waiver and how they are managing the funds. The Maharashtra government is positive on the loan waiver issue. We have approached the Centre for help. Now, we are planning how to go about it if we are unable to get central help,“ said Fadnavis. It is expected that a loan waiver for 31 lakh farmers will cost the state Rs 30,000 crore.
 
 New UP CM   announced a Rs 36,359-crore farm loan waiver on Tuesday. Fadnavis had so far resisted persistent calls from ally   and the opposition parties for a loan waiver citing a funds crunch and even delinking farmer suicides from such a relief. Referring to the Madras HC order to Tamil Nadu to expand its loan waiver scheme to farmers with more than five acres of land, Fadnavis said the “decision to waive farm loan is the prerogative of the government“.
 
 On Wednesday, as soon as the lower House assembled, Shiv Sena members aggressively raised the issue. MLA Shambhuraj Desai congratulated the UP CM and said: “This is a serious issue and the government should announce a loan waiver for farmers as only two days are left of the (House) ses sion.“ He pointed out that Maharashtra's financial condition if better than UP's.
 
 The   members, however, were divided on the waiver.“The government should form a committee at the taluka level and announce a loan waiver soon,“ said MLA Ashish Deshmukh; his colleague Prashant Bamb was firm that the loans must not be waived. Angry Sena MLAs gheraoed Bamb.
 
 The legislative council was adjourned for the day amid protests over the waiver. “Two farmer brothers have killed them selves in Karad over a Rs 60lakh loan. What is the government waiting for? Why is it consulting the UP chief secretary?
 It has had more than two years to think about the waiver,“ said Congress's  .
 
 Opposition leaders Ajit Pawar (NCP) and   (Congress) said the CM's statement was misleading. “Fadnavis is not serious on aloan waiver. If he is, he should seek advice from us. We do not accept the UP formula of waiver up to Rs 1 lakh; there should be a complete waiver. Maharashtra will need just Rs 36,000 crore for the purpose,'' they said.
 
 Vikhe Patil said Maharashtra has been a trend-setter on tackling agrarian crisis. It is unfortunate Fadnavis is now asking bureaucrats to study the UP package for the farmers.
 
 “If there is a resource crunch, the government should float bonds for loan waiver. In the past, the state had floated bonds for irrigation projects under the Krishna Valley Development Corporation. If smaller states can afford loan waiver, it should not be difficult for Maharashtra,“ said Pawar.
 
