KOLKATA: The   has already served a major blow to the revenue collection of the state, disclosed the state finance minister Amit Mitra on Saturday after consulting with the industry bodies and chambers about the impending  . The fall in revenue is a major concern because this could impact the capital expenditure for infrastructure projects undertaken by the state. Currently, the state is paying over Rs 28,000 crore every year to clear its debt.

 This year, the state budget is slotted for February 10. The pre-budget consultation was attended by 38 representatives of 18 chamber and industry bodies. These included Indian Chamber of Commerce,  , Confederation of Indian Industry, Bengal Chamber of Commerce, Merchant Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Indian Export Organisation among others.
 
 Mitra pointed that there was a degrowth in revenue collection in December 2016. “We witnessed a 2% negative growth in tax collection last year. In the same period in the previous year, there was a 11% growth. Thus, in total there has been a 13% degrowth in revenue mop up,” he said. Mitra added that the state government would continue to pursue ways through which it can maintain the tax buoyancy in the next fiscal.
 
 Chief minister   had said the state exchequer may loose Rs 5,200 crore as a whole due to the notebandi. Incidentally, the state has witnessed a little over 100% growth in tax collection in the last five years.
 
 Mitra claimed representatives across all chambers mentioned that its members are facing difficulties due to notebandi. “They (industry) are witnessing huge losses. Micro, small and medium enterprises has suffered the most. We shall see how to give some solace to these sectors ,” he added.
 
 The chamber representatives who attended the meeting have raised some issues. The senior vice-president of Bharat Chamber of Commerce, Sitaram Sharma, complemented Mitra for his department’s proactive steps to ease the the migration process from VAT to GST. He suggested that rates for VAT for various items in the upcoming budget 2017-18 be harmonised with the proposed GST category of rates.
 
  The vice-chairman of CII,   State Council, Rupali Basu, said, “ We had a good session with the state finance minister on various issues pertaining to taxation. FM and principal secretary discussed each issue in detail and hopefully some of the recommendations discussed today by the industry representatives will be reflected in the state budget,” she added.
 
