NASHIK: As a group of boys frolic in the Godavari in  , a guard, standing on the bank, blows a whistle to warn them against throwing anything into the river.

 He is among the 52 Maharashtra   personnel deployed 24x7 along a 3.5km stretch of the river. They do not even let vendors dip vegetables in the water or local residents wash clothes or vehicles in it. In partnership with The   started providing security to the river in April following a Bombay high court directive in response to a PIL to check river pollution. Between April 1 and September 14, at least 42 persons have been slapped with a fine of Rs 1,000 each for polluting the river.
 
 The guards are stationed between Ramkund, a bathing ghat that's the epicentre of the  , and Tapovan. The stretch sees a huge number of devotees and tourists.
 
 It was in 2013 that the court directed deployment of police along the banks. The order was implemented for some time before policemen were withdrawn due to a manpower crunch.
 
 Rajesh Pandit, an activist who filed the PIL in 2012, said, “In 2014, the court ordered installing of nets below the bridges to stop filth from falling into the river. The   has started doing that only now.“
 
 Ahead of the 2015 Kumbh, authorities cleaned the river. But soon after, it was back to square one (see graphic). So, this April, the civic body deployed guards. One of them, Bhagwan Sonawane, said, “Only immersion of ashes of the dead is done in a small pond inside Ramkund now. The condition of the river is better than when we started work.“ Other guards say it's a challenging job and arguments with devotees and threats from locals have become routine.
 
 Activists say this exercise is not enough because there's also the problem of untreated sewage entering the river, and concreting of the riverbed.
 
 Nashik divisional commissioner Mahesh Zagade has asked for a sewage audit from   to Nandur Madhyameshwar dam because drainage and stormwater drains are linked in many places.
 
 UB Pawar, a city engineer, said less than 1km of the riverbed has been concretised in the last 48 years. According to him, the riverbed was concretised for the safety of the devotees because they could get injured if there was silt.
 
 However, activist Devang Jani said, “It's strange to concretise the riverbed here. Kumbh Mela is held at the confluence of the Aruna and the Godavari.Removing the concrete would ensure the river's natural flow with its live springs. They are now buried under the concrete.“
 
 About the future, Nashik municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna says the civic body would take more steps to clean the river. “The state has approved augmentation of the drainage network and laying of new pipelines. This will ensure that only treated water enters it,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Spiritual guru Sadhguru led a bike rally in Mumbai on Sunday, as part of his pan-India Rally for Rivers. Later, he met   chief minister and other leaders. Speaking at an event in Navi Mumbai on Saturday, he said, “Rivers are a complex phenomenon and destruction has happened...Everyone understands that the situation is serious and was waiting for something like this rally to happen.“
 
