UTTARAKASHI: The 2013 flash floods devastated the   constituency. Yet this election, nobody here is talking environment or conservation.

 Instead, both   and   vow to revive two large dams -Loharinag Pala (600MW) and Pala Maneri (480MW) -and operationalise them. These run-of-the river projects on the Bhagirathi were shut down due to environmental concerns. Both parties say reviving them would bring back “vikas“.
 
 Also, they oppose the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), because, as such, it'd restrict large hydel projects, riverbed mining, and big roads.Both Gangotri candidates -BJP's Gopal Singh   and Congress's Vijay Pal   insist they'd get the ESZ scrapped, get projects restarted and bring back jobs.
 
 Rawat and Sajwan were “close friends“ before the 2002 elections, lo cals recall. Both were reportedly linked to hydropower contracts power contracts and stone-crusher units. “Most people here thrive on such contracts. What other opportuni ties are here,“ a BJP worker explains.
 
 “The ESZ policy will stall development. People want jobs. In other states you allow hydro power projects, why not here? We promise balanced development,“ Sajwan says. Rawat acknowledges his long-lost friendship with Sajwan thus: “Yes we were good friends and worked together on contracts, particularly micro-hydel, before 2002.Then he de ceived me.“
 
 He then says: “ After we win, we'll ask the Centre to reopen Loharinag Pala and make it a 300-MW project instead of 600 MW . This'll ensure Ganga's aviral dhara (unhindered flow), other projects too need to open.“ In line with this mission statement is the BJP's Namami Ganga project, which too talks of aviral dhara.
 
 Union water resources, minister Uma Bharti, till recently against dams on the Ganga, recently said they can be allowed with new technology .
 
 For the voter, the story is similar and different at the same time. “Nobody is clear about what ESZ stands for.Parties call it the kala ka noon. Everybody is against it, but nobody knows how it'd affect lives. The contractors' lobby opposes it because it'd hit stone crushers and mining. My point is the closed projects have already created permanent landslide zones,“ says Pushpa Chauhan, Pradhan, Ganeshpur village.
 
 “Politicians want to win. They have stakes in these projects and assure villagers of work in these projects. Since there are no jobs here, people are happy to have a small share of the profits. Tourism has suffered following the disasters,“ said Shyam Singh Panwar, a village elder near the Assi Ganga.
 
 Voters complain that extreme weather-related disasters have increased manifold and their lives are always on the edge with frequent landslides, cloudbursts and rickety infrastructure. “The 2013 disaster was unprecedented.We have no roads to escape, no hospitals. We live on hope,“ says Prem Singh, retired employee of a polytechnic. Others at an Assi Ganga tea stall nod in agreement.
 
 
