BENGALURU: With the rollout of the   ( ) regime on July 1 set to take away benefits that the   hitherto enjoyed, the producers are threatening to move operations out of the state. 

 Under the existing guidelines, no entertainment tax is levied on Kannada films, while other movies have to pay 30% tax. In order to avail of the tax benefits, Kannada filmmakers have to shoot at least 50% of the movie and carry out all post-production activities that include editing, mixing and recording in Karnataka. However, under the  , there will no such exceptions since all films will be levied an 18% entertainment tax.
 
 President of the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) Sa Ra Govindu said that the new system necessitated an overhaul in the manner the film industry functioned. “It now seems inevitable for film activity to be taken out of the state,” he added.
 
 Producer Soorappa Babu said that filmmakers would be forced to shift operations in order to ensure the busiess remained a viable proposition. Endorsing Govindu’s observations, Babu said “When there is no tax benefit, there should be no restrictions.”
 
 “ Kannada   will be allowed use of extravagant sets prepared for Hindi, Tamil or Telugu films,” said Vivek Mallya, a taxation expert and chartered accountant who advises the chamber.
 
 Calling for films to be viewed as an economic activity, Vivek said, “We are ringing in the ‘one nation, one tax’ system, where border restrictions won’t make sense.”
 
 However, chairman of the Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy SV Rajendra Singh Babu sought to draw attention to the dire condition of the film industry. “The state government has protected the interests of the industry in the past. We need its intervention now more than ever,” he said.
 
 Officials in the finance department said that the government was exploring ways to stop the Kannada film industry from moving out of the state. “One option is to reimburse the tax paid on Kannada films. Also, we are planning on requesting the GST Council to have a differential tax structure for movies depending on cost of production,” said a senior official.
 
 
 
 For nearly half a century, the Kannada film industry operated out of Madras. Although companies such as the Mysuru-based Mahatma Pictures, owned by Shankar Singh, made it a point to produce films completely in the state, such cases were far and few between. A widespread movement spearheaded by doyens of Kannada literature such as Aa Na Krishna Rao, Ta Ra Subba Rao and Ma Ramamurthy, who jointly founded the Kannada Chitrapremigala Sangha in 1965, brought the situation to the notice of the government following which then Karnataka finance minister Ramakrishna Hegde announced subsidy for Kannada films in 1967. However, it was not until the 1980s that the film industry shifted en masse to Karnataka, following which it came to be popularly referred to as Sandalwood. 
 
 Lamenting the state of affairs, film historian K Puttaswamy said, “It’s an illusion to think Kannada films would fare well if they were made outside the state. Also, it would take away jobs of local artistes and technicians,” he said.
 
 
