Kolkata: Besieged by hawkers who smother trade at the 147-year-old New Market during business hours and then wrap their wares in inflammable plastic sheets along the market walls at night, traders of SS Hogg Market have sent a clarion call to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to save the heritage building from a Burrabazar-like disaster.

 “Encroachment was the biggest impediment in Burrabazar fire where 35 fire tenders struggled to douse the flames as they could not get access. The situation around New Market is similar. The entire stretch, starting from KMC headquarters and its surroundings have been encroached. Not only pavements, roads and even KMC-allotted car parking lots have been taken over by hundreds of hawkers. 
 
 Not only do they make access to the market a nightmare, they turn the heritage market into a veritable tinder box by stocking the goods along the market wall at night and covering them with plastic sheets. A casually discarded glowing cigarette butt can cause mayhem,” association secretary Uday Kumar Shaoo wrote to the CM last week.
 
 Citing her recommendation to mayor Sovan Chatterjee to set up a panel comprising representatives from the fire and municipal affairs departments after fire tenders could not access the seat of fire in Burrabazar due to encroachments, New Market traders have called for a similar watchdog agency to look into encroachments in the belt.
 
 Copies of the letter have been sent to the mayor, municipal commissioner, fire services and municipal affairs ministers, Kolkata Police commissioner, deputy commissioners of south Kolkata and traffic as well as the New Market OC.
 
 Encroachments in the belt have long been a worry among firemen at the fire brigade headquarters situated less than 100 metre away. Even Chatterjee, who is also the fire minister, is aware of the hazard. Around two years ago, he had walked around the area and expressed concern over rampant encroachment. 
 
 A month earlier, the Joint Traders Forum, an umbrella body of traders at New Market and Sreeram Arcade, had written another letter to the CM, pointing out that hawkers were smothering the business at New Market by encroaching on the entry points to the market and taking away business by occupying the parking lots on Bertram Street and Humayun Place. The underground parking lot Simpark has been shut for over a year.
 
 “In an advertisement issued by KMC in 2015 following a meeting called by the CM, the mayor had publicly announced a list of guidelines. Points 8, 9 and 10 stated that entrance and exit of any shop or house would not be blocked by hawkers; enough space would be left vacant on footpaths; and third, hawkers/vendors were strictly prohibited from using road for hawking. Yet, two years later, nothing has been done to implement the rules. We don’t want hawkers to be evicted. We only want the KMC and the government to enforce its own guidelines and clear the carriageway of hawkers,” said JTF general secretary Rajiv Singh.
 
 
