Calangute: Once known as the queen of Goa’s beaches and popular as the heartland of the state’s tourism, Calangute will witness a no-holds-barred contest between friends-turned-foes, sitting MLA   and deputy sarpanch of Calangute  , in the February 4 hustings.
 
  Fighting for incumbency, BJP candidate Lobo is seeking a second term and the Congress has left it to Lobo’s former lieutenant Sequeira, to thwart these plans. The AAP and the NCP have fielded candidates, too, but 2017 is clearly a straight fight between Lobo and Sequeira.
  
  Known to be a Congress bastion, Calangute turned saffron in the 2012 Goa assembly elections, when the BJP won by 1,869 votes.
  
  Ironically, Lobo succeeded in overthrowing two-time   with Sequeira’s support in 2012. With things going sour between the former friends, Lobo now has to contend with the possibility of Fernandes and Sequeira joining hands.
  
  Lobo and Sequeira, allegedly came to blows in December, and Sequeira has lost no chance to try and stall Lobo’s agenda in Calangute.
  
  A local BJP worker remarked that Lobo was clearly hoping that the Congress would field Fernandes in Calangute.
  
  Analysts say much depends on the extent to which Fernandes supports Sequeira. As a Congress worker said, “It’s for the record that they have to come together in public—for a meeting or press conference—and sing unity tunes.”
  
  Fernandes is clearly key in Calangute as Sequeira requires his former bete noire’s support in Candolim, Calangute and Arpora if he wants to mount a serious threat to Lobo’s campaign.
  
  “Fernandes cannot speak a word against Sequeira. Now that he has the Congress ticket, how can he go to another constituency and ask people to vote for the BJP?” a Congress insider stated.
  
  While members of the Calangute panchayat back Sequeira, Lobo has found strong support in Candolim. Sarpanch  , representing the Candolim panchayat, which was Fernandes’ stronghold when he was the MLA, was present with Lobo as he filed his nomination papers.
  
  
  Known to be approachable, Lobo also has the backing of taxi operators, shack owners and fishermen. It’s for this reason that he was approached by the Congress more than a year ago to switch sides, but declined after defence minister Manohar Parrikar assured him of a “good deal” post-election. Sources say no BJP candidate can win the Calangute seat. It’s only due to Lobo’s sizeable personal vote base that BJP is confident of retaining the seat.
  
  Under Lobo’s tenure, the Sinquerim-Baga belt has seen significant development. The modern, solid-waste treatment plant has come as a boon to the coastal area, which probably has the highest density of hotels and restaurants in Goa.
  
  That said, the constituency is still grappling with water woes, power shortage, lack of bio-chemical toilets, and law and order. Local residents say the luxury of tourists have been put before the needs of Goans.
  
  Incidentally, for the last few years, Lobo has not been very critical of Fernandes. With an eye on the polls, Fernandes had taken on Lobo when Calangute was brought under the PDA (planning and development authority). Except for initial protests, citizens’ resistance to Lobo’s plans didn’t get much support from Congress leaders. “Which politician doesn’t want a higher FAR (floor area ratio)?” remarked a villager.
  
  With the state heading to polls and election fever running high, each candidate needs to assuage the simmering discontent over the destruction of Goa’s tourism jewel.
  
  
  The Calangute panchayat, which backs Sequeira, argues that except for the last five years, all Calangute has got is due to him. “Lobo has done work. But, then he is also a Parra boy. We have never had someone of our own,” a Calangute-based guesthouse operator said. Nearly 25,000 voters have a say in the elections. Catholics and Hindus are equally represented here.
  
  
  To add spice to the battle are AAP’s Godwin Fernandes, another Kongottkar, and NCP’s  .
  
  “There is an AAP undercurrent, but people are not comfortable to talk about them, and it appears that between all of the candidates, it will be a close fight between Congress and BJP,” a political observer said.
  
  A poll watcher said that in Goa, it’s difficult to know if leaders are loyal to their parties. Whether Sequeira and Fernandes will unite to defeat the BJP in Calangute, will be known only on March 11.
