NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister   on Saturday lashed out at the   ( ) and said that his party is being targeted for working for the people.

 Kejriwal's angry reaction came a day after Delhi 
  in the national capital
 
 "They can snatch our office but we will keep fighting for people. We will work from the roads," Kejriwal said at a press conference.
 
 "  has four offices and a plot, BJP has seven offices and a plot while AAP which got 67 seats in Delhi has no office," he said.
 
 "Taking away our office is injustice. Even the RJD and the BSP have an office in Delhi but our office has been snatched," the Delhi chief minister said.
 
 He also said that AAP is a recognised party and 
  .
 
 "As soon as AAP announced that the party will end BJP's 10 years of misrule in MCD 
 
 The AAP leader claimed that it is for the first time since Independence, that a ruling party doesn't have its office in the state.
 
 Kejriwal linked the cancellation to AAP's promise of abolishing house tax if voted to power in the municipal corporations, which go to polls on April 23.
 
 "They want to finish us, they want to close AAP. But it won't happen as we are on the path of truth. People will teach them a lesson in the polls.
 
 He also said the party is being "victimised" for taking on the ruling mafia and siding with the poor.
 
 "The party will seek re-allocation of 206 Rouse Avenue bungalow for AAP office. Many people have called, SMSed me to offer their homes, offices to house party office …," Kejriwal said 
 
 Yesterday, Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had ordered cancellation of the allotment of a bungalow on Rouse Avenue to AAP for its office after receiving a response from the PWD of Delhi government on the issue. 
 
 This follows submission of the   Committee report on the government's decisions which had bypassed former   Najeeb Jung's approval.
 
 Shunglu Committee, headed by former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) VK Shunglu, was formed by Jung after   gave primacy to the LG in Delhi administrative affairs in August last year.
 
 
