In a career spanning 12 years, Mishal   has done just eight shows and two guest appearances. While most of his contemporaries are part of the much-clichéd rate race, slugging it out with multiple shows and appearances, the   says that he is in no hurry. “I’m a nonconformist and I don’t believe in joining the bandwagon. I like walking a different path,” he says. 

 Last seen in ' ' ( ) almost a year ago,   says that he is now on the lookout for something new. He elaborates, “I want something in the romantic, action or thriller space. Sometimes, I like the story, but the producers don’t like me, and vice-versa... but I am itching to get back to work as I miss shooting.” 
 
 Tell him that he is perceived as a difficult actor to work with and he says, “I get upset when I am performing a serious scene and, despite repeated requests, the people around me don’t stop giggling and joking. But that’s for the betterment of the project. If that’s called tantrum, so be it. Such reports would upset me in the beginning, but I have no complaints now, as   has given me a lot.” 
 
 After pausing for a few seconds, he adds, “This is not the only misunderstanding people have about me. They also think that I am a 
 actor. See, am I wrong in asking for a hike in the second year of a show? Everybody, including the light boy, deserves a hike after a year. Having said that, work comes first and I would never arm-twist anyone.” 
 
 Meanwhile Mishal has also turned producer. “I have always aspired to be a producer and am making a series, which has been on my mind for almost five years. It got delayed because I believed that our viewers were not ready for it.” 
 
 On the personal front, he says that he was in a relationship, but broke up long back. So, what went wrong? “She was not from the industry. We wanted to take the relationship to the next level, but it was not meant to be. We wanted different things from life. Also, my profession was a matter of contention. People don’t trust actors easily and no matter how much you try to convince them, they assume that an actor is frivolous. I couldn’t have nurtured a relationship in that environment,” he replies. 
 
 However, the experience hasn’t changed Mishal’s faith in love. “I think it’s fantastic, though difficult to find in this day and age. Today’s generation doesn’t understand the depth of love. Love is about respecting a person,” he says, adding, “I plan to settle down, but the decision is vested with God. I will get married when He wants me to. I am sure that the right girl will enter my life at the right time,” he signs off. 
 
 
