Well-being. That is my wish for you in the shiny, brand new 2017. Well-being in every aspect of your life. Happily, many a new restaurants are also giving priority to our well-being. Like The Korner House, where the brilliant chef, author and TV host   even offers ‘bowls of health and flavour’ (Please note: flavour is given equal importance). The perfect destination to dine with owners of highly sought after dedicated personal training centres in South Mumbai! Sunil and Madhuri Kudva’s fitness expertise stems from decades of formal study and practical experience in designing exercise programs for Australia, Mexico and UK. Passionate about strength training and food, they enjoyed The Korner House.

 
 
 Located quite literally on the corner in Khar’s Union Park, The Korner House has a relaxed contemporary feel to it, beautiful floor tiles, tall panes and an elegant bar. Plant-filled alfresco section (great in this weather), too.
 
 
 
 I dined here twice, especially to check out the new menu (which encompasses bowls of flavour and health, protein done on charcoal with a choice of sauces and sides). Vibrant European fare here. Azteca bowl (quinoa, charred corn, black-eyed peas sparkled with the jalapeno dressing) is a carnival of robust flavours. Love the soft white pillow of Burrata heirloom snuggling with the cheeky, tangy-sweet Heirloom Tomato. Explosion of Gochujang in the Korean Chicken. Choose from 12 exciting sauces (lime and spicy Port pepper, smoked Choron Hollandaise etc) to match with the protein, be it the delicate John Dory or our favourite succulent Lamb Chops done on charcoal. Ask for the Coq au Vin, double bacon chop and plenty of veg entrees, too. End with generous portions of caramelly creamy Tres leches, intense Dark choc terrine.
 
 
 
 In a menu this varied, there are bound to be patchy dishes, be it the lacklustre Rawas, the four cheese flatbread or the White Polenta Medallions. South Mumbaikars like us wish it was not located in Khar.
 
 
 
 It’s only since September that Vicky Ratnani’s menus have been introduced and The Korner House is already a regular favourite of   and family and many other stars. The vivacious fitness expert and author   sums up the place. “I go regularly only because of Chef Vicky. He understands that healthy and organic has to be flavourful too,” says Deanne. “He is so brilliant, well-travelled, always trying new dishes,” she concludes. I agree with her. I was in Peru recently with Vicky and was impressed with his keen dedication to study new flavours. We are happy that The Korner House is cornering all aspects…well-being and pleasure, too.
 
