DARBHANGA: Two day northeast & northern writers’ meet organized by   (SA), New Delhi, concluded on the   on Sunday.   along with   participated in the meet, which was aimed at making conversant the writers of one region with the others. 

 Addressing the meet on the opening day, Sahitya Akademi secretary K Sreenivasrao said writers of northeast and northern regions came here to interact with each other and specially with the literature of Mithilanchal. Diversity of the various languages in the country has to be conserved. Coordination between different languages is also necessary for peace in this country and the SA acts towards that goals. Last year, the SA organized 582 such meets nationwide; one meet every 15 hours. SA also published 480 books last year. 
 
 Speaking as chief guest on the occasion,   vice-chancellor Prof S K Singh said littérateurs of various languages came here to to create strong coordination among languages for creating employment and increasing their acceptability. This may lead to adopting languages of one region by the people of another region. Singh thanked the SA officials for organizing this meet on LNMU campus. 
 
 Eminent Maithili writer and fellow SA Chandranath Mishra ‘Amar’ said SA is like a ‘parliament of the languages’ in this country. In a challenging task, SA has organized such meets at a place like Darbhanga instead of metros where multilingual people reside. He wished this meet a success.
 
 Delivering his presidential address, SA president V P Tiwari said all languages of this country are in crisis, because children are not getting education in their mother tongue at least at the beginning stage. Giving an example, he said one Kannad student asked a story writer to provide his Kannad storybook translated into English. Tiwari went to the extent of telling that English has become a challenge for other languages of this country. 
 
 Tiwari said he is a Bhojpuri-speaking person and the SA secretary is a Telugu-speaking person. 
 
 
