LUCKNOW: It may be gun country but it seems   is finding it difficult to handle firearms, even the licensed ones.
 
  With the seven-phase assembly election due to get underway on February 11, the state police have launched a mammoth exercise to get licence holders to submit their   to be kept under lock and key till the polls get over.
  
  UP has about 11lakh licensed arms, more than any other state in the country by a long shot. Of these, only about 2.5 lakh arms have been deposited with the police so far.
  
  On Thursday, the Gomti Nagar police station catering to a posh urban area in Lucknow saw a steady stream of people, including some businessmen, queueing up to deposit their   and live cartridges.
  
  Nearly 1,000 people under the jurisdiction of this police station hold licensed guns in a district which perhaps has the maximum number of arms among all districts across the country.
  
  Getting licence holders to hand over their arms to the police for safekeeping before the polling date is quite an elaborate exercise. Each deposited gun has to be stored safely in the police station malkhana or storeroom and every deposited cartridge has to be counted.
  
  In some cases, malkhanas overflow with weapons at the end of the day, leaving the police with little choice but to turn lock-ups into storage rooms.
  
  The police cannot afford to take any chances because any missing gun invites a first information report since the police are the custodian of weapons, a senior UP police officer told ET.
  
  “It is a very big exercise. We literally have to knock on each door to remind the licence holders to deposit their arms well before the polling date. We aim to get at least 80 per cent of the arms deposited with us,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.
  
  But is there any other way out for the licence holders? “People have an option to deposit their gun at an authorised gun seller’s shop and furnish the receipt to the police, which then crosschecks this,” the police officer said.
  
  “People nowadays prefer to deposit their guns with the dealer from whom they bought them, thinking the retrieval after the polls will be quicker there.”
  
  
 
  Any undue delay in depositing weapons can even lead to cancellation of the gun licence, according to the police officer. The ongoing exercise has revealed some cases of people with criminal records holding licensed guns and such licences are also being cancelled, he said.
  
  While Lucknow has nearly 48,000 licensed guns, Bareilly has 46,000, followed by Kanpur (44,000) and Agra (43,000). Meerut, Etawah and Muzaffarnagar districts also have a large number of licensed arms, officials said.
  
  The drill started last month, with a screening committee in each district comprising the district magistrate and superintendent of police going through the list of licensed gun holders and determining who can be exempted from the exercise.
  
  “These include security guards at banks, malls, ATMs and senior functionaries like judges and bureaucrats holding licensed guns. Nearly 10 per cent of the licensed gun holders have been exempted for the sake of public safety on explicit instructions that there will no unnecessary display or showing off of these weapons,” a senior state bureaucrat said on condition of anonymity. All the rest need to deposit their firearms with the police, he said.
  
  
 
  A senior police officer said, “This exercise contributes to a secure atmosphere during elections...especially in the villages where mere display of guns by upper-caste people or musclemen could intimidate the downtrodden and poor enough to deter them from casting their vote.”
  
  The Allahabad High Court had in 2013 come down heavily on the increase in the number of gun licences in UP, clamping a freeze on further licences being given except in exceptional cases of threat.
  
  “It is submitted at the bar that total number of licence holders in the state are far in excess with the arms available to the police force. Entire 2.13 lakh force of state police has 2.25 lakh weapons with them. Thus, the private citizens possess weapons more than five times to the force of state,” the court had ruled.
  
  It had further said, “More than half of the killings from firing, in the country, are reported from Uttar Pradesh. Experience shows that arms licences are procured merely for flaunting the status as it has become status symbol. Arming society to such an extent sends danger bell. In fact, UP is sitting on volcano.” 
