PATNA: The city had its first rainy day of the year on Monday. Weathermen forecast dense morning fog over the next two to three days.
 
  Though the local Met office recorded only trace rainfall (less than 1mm) in the city, the inclement weather conditions led to rescheduling of 18 trains running through Patna Junction and delay in several morning flights from the city airport.
  
  The long-distance rescheduled trains included  , which will leave Patna Junction at 6am on Tuesday, instead of 5:35pm on Monday. Also, Sanghmitra Express, from   to Bengaluru, was rescheduled from 7:45pm on Monday to 2am on Tuesday.
  
  The first flight landed at   after 1.30pm, instead of 12:30pm. Even Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s flight was delayed by around 30 minutes and landed only around 2pm.
  
  Weathermen attributed the overcast conditions to a local cyclonic circulation. The cloud cover led to plunge in the day’s temperature as it dropped to 19.5 degrees C, which was three notches lower than the normal. “But there was not much rain as the system was not strong. It is expected to neutralize by tonight, paving way for dense fog over the next few 2-3 days,” said a senior meteorologist at Patna centre. “We are expecting the minimum temperature to remain around 10-12 degree C, while the maximum is expected to be in the range of 20-21 degree C,” he said.
  
  Another spell of chilly conditions is expected after Tuesday as the weathermen claimed that a western disturbance is likely to cause dense fog along with day cold conditions in the region around the weekend.
  
  “The western disturbance was situated over north Jammu and Kashmir on Monday and it is expected to move northwards. Though it is likely to go towards China while moving northward, we expect moisture incursion in the region as well, leading to foggy conditions,” he said.
  
  Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea. While moving eastward, they cause winter rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent. Rainfall due to western disturbance leaves large amount of moisture in the air, which leads to dense fog formation when the wind speed is comparatively low.
  
  Private weather agency Skymet has also forecast dense to very dense fog in Bihar till January 6.
  
  The inclement weather conditions, however, failed to douse the enthusiasm of devotees coming from far off places to attend the 350th birth anniversary celebrations in the city. “My train was late by five hours and it reached Patna Junction at 4am. It was shivery, but we came to Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib by walking a few kilometres,” said  , a devotee from Ludhiana.
