BENGALURU: Karnataka minister   on Tuesday allayed fears about the measles-rubella vaccine project and affirmed it was safe for children. The vaccination drive launched by the government has run into controversies with some experts raising objection to the specifications of the needles being used to administer the vaccine to children.

 The minister told TOI: “I, too, heard the needle used for vaccination is thick. As education minister, I'm responsible for the drive taking place at schools. I'm answerable to parents. I've consulted doctors who said there is not much difference between the two needles (of 23 and 26 gauge). I have been assured it is safe.“ Principal secretary (health) Shalini Ra jneesh said 23-gauge needles with 120-mm length were being used for measles injections for the past 30 years and the same would be used for MR-VAC campaign too. “Private doctors are talking about 26-gauge needle. We have taken adequate measures to ensure safety of children and the nurses have been welltrained. The parents need not be worried,“ she said.
 
 The Karnataka government plans to vaccinate 1.64 crore children aged between 9 months and 15 years in three weeks.
 
 Experts said vaccination is the subcutaneous injection, and requires a thinner needle. Inter-muscular injection requires a thicker needle.
 
 On Tuesday morning wh e n t h e d r ive w a s launched, all the centres used 23-gauge needles with auto-disabled syringe to administer 0.5-ml vaccine. Only a few used 26-g aug e needles. At   where education minister Tanveer Sait launched the drive, nurses were given 400 needles of 23-gauge and two 26-gauge needles.
 
 At   in Nandini Layout, a team of three nurses ad ministered 650 vaccines and all were through 23-gauge needles. The team vaccinated 600 children at   using 23-gauge needles.
 
 Dr  , an independent paediatrician, said the government had failed to do due diligence before embarking on the immunization drive.“Specification of the needle is a minor issue. The basic question is: Why has the government imposed MR-VC vaccine when MMR vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella is already around?“ she said.
 
 Some private city schools are yet to take a call on allowing vaccination of their students and have decided to wait for parents' consent.
 
 Officials said over 12 lakh children in the BBMP limits are likely to be vaccinated during the campaign.
 
