HYDERABAD: Within hours of Hyderabad High Court striking down the 'voluntary retirement' scheme on health reasons (VRS HR) that was recently re-introduced for employees of state-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) on Thursday, chief minister   said his government will challenge the verdict in  . “The decision on providing dependent jobs to families of SCCL workers was taken in view of hard work and difficulties faced by workers and employees,“ said the CM. Terming the petition filed in high court as one with `malicious intention', Chandrashekar Rao said a team of senior legal counsel, who specialize in labour laws will be engaged by the government for the case. The voluntary retirement benefit scheme, perhaps one of its kind in the country being implemented by a state government, was first introduced by the AP government in 1981to provide jobs to male heirs of Singareni Collieries employees who were medically invalidated and their services discontinued. It was reintroduced by the TRS regime in December 2016.

 Earlier, the bench of Justice V Ramasubramanian and Justice J Uma Devi dubbed the VRS HR as a device to perpetuate succession in employment and set it aside.The bench called the scheme discriminatory and unconstitutional in its judgment pronounced in a public interest litigation petition filed by K Satish Kumar, an unemployed person from  , who challenged the employment scheme. The bench struck down the circular on December 20, 2016, issued by the chairman of SCCL, intended to fill as many as 30,000 jobs and the consequent notification issued.
 
 The retirement age at SCCL is 60 and the scheme allows those employees who come under the category of National Coal Wage Agreement (NCWA) to opt for retirement and pave way for his son or other eligible male heir to acquire a job as a badli worker (underground). The employee has to forego two years of service and the company's medical board has to certify he is medically unfit.
 
 Those who have more than two years of service will have to wait till they complete the age of 58. If both spouses happen to be employees, only one will be eligible for the scheme. The jobs will not be given to a woman, differently-abled and mentallychallenged persons.
 
 During arguments, Telangana Advocate General   defended the scheme, saying jobs in SCCL are hazardous as badli workers work 400 feet below earth. What is being offered to their physically fit kin are the same hazardous jobs and this was part of the coal workers' agreement with the management nearly four decades ago, he said. Courts too have approved this in the past, he said.
 
 Senior counsel  , who argued the case of the petitioner, found fault with the scheme and described it as one that adversely affects the chances of thousands of people willing to work hard to make a living.
 
 The bench went through various judgments cited by both parties and concluded that the scheme violates the Constitution in more than one way . “It is a device to perpetuate succession, by easing out employees just two years before their retirement so that they can pass on the baton to their chosen dependent,“ the bench said. The scheme discriminates between male and female dependents and this goes against the country's commitment to Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women.
 
