MUMBAI: The   on Monday directed additional director general of   (ACB) to probe complaints filed by a head constable of corruption within the traffic department and submit a report in 6 weeks.

 Sunil Toke, the petitioner had moved the HC to highlight the "rampant corruption" and demanded proper action by the state and top cops. 
 
 The court also expressed its concern over the extent of corruption as alleged in the petition. They also mentioned how "heavy vehicles ply on the right side on the highway, even on Mumbai Pune highway." 
 
 Toke recruited as a cop in 1985 said he was posted at the Wadala traffic department last July for less than a month. He said that during his service at  , he was "shocked and surprised to see that there is a rampant corruption at Traffic Police Department."
 
 " In each division of Traffic Police Department, there are two constables who are known as cashiers, they are unofficially deputed on the duty to collect daily or monthly hafta from the old and new two wheeler and four wheeler show rooms. The amount is about Rs.5,000 to Rs.10,000." Each division also has a target of the number of motorists they must book for drunken driving. 
 
 Petitioner's counsel Pradeep Havnur pointed out to a bench headed by Justice Ranjit More on Monday that once or twice in a week when drunk driving checks take place, the target is to book 5 to 10 persons. But he said, people caught are 40 to 50 who several of who allowed to go away on payment which can be Rs 10,000 and above. 
 
 Havnur mentioned a case of his own driver's kin. He said his driver "came knocking" on his door late night and asked for advance payment of Rs25000. Only when enquiries were made with his driver the next day, he told the bench, that his driver informed him that "it had to be given to Traffic Police who demanded 25,000 to leave his brother from a drunken driving case."
 
 "it was shocking that such instances happen each time for people to avoid being prosecuted and getting their license revoked," he said. 
 
 The government lawyer Jayesh Yagnik said that there was already a probe on under the supervision of additional police commissioner (anti corruption).
 
