GREATER NOIDA: The  , concessionaire of the  , has agreed to construct an interchange a few kilometres before the   toll plaza to connect the expressway to the   road.

 The move is aimed at streamlining traffic on the high-speed 165-km expressway, besides providing entry and exit points for commuters headed to Jewar or  . Work on the project will begin on June 15, YEIDA said on Wednesday.
 
 According to YEIDA officials, commuters as well as local farmers have been demanding decongestion of the six-lane erxpressway, which connects   to Agra. Dhirendra Singh has been pushing for the project from the time he took over as Jewar MLA in March this year. “We have been agitating for this important project for some time now. It will be a great help to the locals,” the MLA said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, YEIDA CEO Arunvir Singh confirmed that tenders for the interchange and two ramps have been floated by the Jaypee Group and work would commence next month. Two ramps or loops leading to the interchange have already been constructed. “Using the ramps to access the interchange near Jewar, commuters will be able to enter and exit the expressway easily,” he said.
 
 The interchange will be constructed about 36km from the Greater Noida zero point of the expressway. “This is at the intersection of the Jewar-Bulandsahar road (state highway-100) and the Yamuna expressway,” Singh said.
 
 “While two ramps (exit and entry) towards the Greater Noida side of the interchange have already been completed, two more ramps on the Agra side will be completed within nine months. The ramps will have a three-lane carriageway with a ramp toll plaza of five lanes,” he said.
 
 According to motorists who use the expressway regularly, they have to travel 70km extra and also pay an additional toll at present to travel towards Jewar for lack of an interchange. With the interchange, commuters will be able to exit the express-way to head towards Jewar without travelling to Greater Noida. At present, commuters wishing to go from Jewar towards Agra have to go across to the other side of the expressway. 
 
 
