AMARAVATI: The February 21 poll to   (AMC) is a test of popularity for some corporators seeking the third, fourth or fifth term. Among them is Dinesh Boob, an aggressive ex-Shiv Sainik seeking his third term, this time from Jawahar Stadium prabhag. Pitted against him is another bigwig in BJP’s Sanjay Agrawal, who was the leader of opposition in the outgoing house. ToI spoke to both of them. Excerpts from an interview:

 You were a   leader since the party’s foundation in Amravati. What made you quit?
 
  In 2010, a thermal power project was set to come up in   and the late   had taken a stand against it. We were fighting against it, but then MP Anand Adsul and his MLA son Abhijit supported the project. This sparked a tussle between us.
 
 You won from Shrikrishna Peth in 2007 as a Shiv Sena candidate and from Ambapeth in 2012 as an independent. This time you are contesting from Jawahar stadium as an independent candidate again. Why this shift of wards and parties?
 
  Shrikrishnapeth is my native ward and I won my first election from here polling 53% votes, but it was reserved in 2012, which then forced me to shift to Ambapeth, where I won. This time I returned to Jawahar stadium prabhag as my native ward falls in it. I will definitely win from here as I am a service-oriented candidate. Moreover, this is a secular prabhag where no party has its set up except mine, which is the biggest one. I will poll more than 51% votes this time. BJP and Congress are my actual rivals and I am confident.
 
 It is alleged that you terrorize officers and you belong to the alleged ‘Golden Gang’.
 
  If attracting maximum number of people towards you with work and organization is an act of terror, then I do it. As for the alleged Golden Gang, there is no such thing. I am in the fray now to get the hawkers’ policy and education policy mooted by me implemented. While the former can fetch annual income of Rs15 crore to AMC, the latter provides opportunity to slum students to learn in private schools at AMC fee structure. 
 
 Why is there perennial fund crunch in AMC?
 
  The corporators and officers do not make collective and concerted efforts for fund generation. They mostly run after cheap publicity and do not take a strong stand in public interest.
 
 
