His 100th Kannada film as a leading man hits theatres this week, but when he was approached to play the protagonist in  ,   didn't even know that this was the case. But is he happy that this film will always be mentioned when his milestone is brought up? The actor spoke to   about this and more'

 
 
 I am glad that it happened with this film. I have done over 100 films in my career already, which included those in other languages as well, so I hadn't really kept a separate track of my Kannada films. I had finished 50% of Pushpaka Vimana when a friend of mine brought up this milestone. Honestly, if I was aware of my next film being my 100th, then I would have sought out a well-known director. Here, almost the entire crew is of newcomers, and I am happy that my milestone film is coming from such a fresh team. 
 
 
 
 It's the first film for almost the entire crew, which is why none of them took anything for granted. So, the cameraman was doing his best to make each frame look good, the music director wanted to churn out the best turns, and so on. No one abandoned the film at any point. Apart from their talent, it was the enthusiasm that was so nice about the whole crew. And, thankfully, whatever this gang has been doing is turning out to be gold, be it the songs or the trailers.
 
 
 
 I play  . After you watch the film, you will wish that the world was filled with people like him. Ananth is easy to be with, is not complicated and has absolutely no agenda. He speaks what he feels, loves everyone and doesn't suspect anyone's intentions, which he is able to do because of his low IQ. And he is a father; his relationship with his daughter is the purest form of love. He is innocence personified and I thoroughly enjoyed playing the role.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Initially, what came to mind were all the other people who have played such roles. Being a father, I did think about the moments I have shared with my daughter. But I also thought about the autistic kids that I spent time with, and all other experiences that I witnessed through my fans. It was a culmination of all these things.
 
 
 
 Off late, you just sign a film, go on the set and act. But this role was hell till I could figure out how to enact it. Mentally, Ananth is 8-9 years old, and there couldn't be Ramesh Aravind anywhere in him. I had other commitments, so I couldn't change my look. So, I started thinking about Ananth's characteristics, and chalked out details, like when he walks, he keeps losing his direction, and when he points, he does so with his middle finger. 
 
 
 
 I am still raring to go, and instead of looking back, I am always look forward. I am more of a windshield guy than a rearview mirror guy ' that's my nature. 'What next' is the mantra I live by. I get up in the morning and need something interesting to do. I can't just lie on the sofa and kill time. I need to do something to keep the grey cells ticking.
 
 
 
 This is the best job to be in. You can add value to everything; it is all about what you do in the moment when you are in front of the camera. It is so energizing ' the camera gives you solid energy. If you have a creative bent of mind, then it's a party. I am as enthusiastic today as I was on the first day of the shoot of my first movie. The love that I get from people is unbelievable ' I would have never got that if I was an engineer. Yes, I might have earned much more and would probably be heading a large company, but the warmth I get from people, even in the remotest of places, I would have never got in any other field. I feel humbled and honoured. It is heartening, and something that I want to live up to.
 
 
  
 
 
 All of them have their own highs and lows. Writing is a lonely job, but suddenly, you come up with a beautiful coinage or a nice punchline, and that gives you a heady feeling. That's the thrill of it, even though it is very labourious. Acting is terrific. It's amazing to be in the moment, understand the role well and deliver what the director expects of you. It's a great high because it connects with the audience ' at the end of the day, it is the actor who they see and love. Direction is superb because it's like stripping yourself to the world and saying 'this is me'. By looking at the heroine in my film, you can tell the kind of women I like. By seeing the story, you can tell what my viewpoint is and how I think the world should be. It is the culmination of so many arts, and I have a say in everything, from the plot, to the scenes, and the location ' I like doing it all. When I am anchoring, you get to see who I am as a person, and how I react to and treat people. It's a vehicle for Ramesh Aravind as a person. And I plan to continue doing all these things.
 
 
 
 Yuvina Parthavi, who impressed cinegoers with her performance in Mummy ' Save Me, is looking at doing so once again, according to Ramesh Aravind. Yuvina plays Ramesh's character's daughter in the film, and the father-daughter relationship is a big part of the story. Speaking about her contribution to the film, Ramesh says, 'Yuvina is a treasure. But for her, it would have been a very tough film to make. She is an absolute star ' she is talented, good looking and having done films earlier, is a thorough professional.
 
