JAIPUR: The   would distribute 200   to party volunteers (vistaraks) for each of the   in the state. The party plans to recruit some 50,000 vistaraks in the state who would   before the assembly polls.

 The vistaraks or volunteers will give their service for the party outside their home districts for different periods as per their convenience. Vistaraks are recruited for 15 days, one month, two months, three months, six months, one year and two years.
 
 However, the party would give bikes only to those who can put in at least six months, said a party source. These volunteers would be given lodging and boarding facilities. Their task is to meet people from various walks of life of the constituency and collect feedback from the public on the performance of the party. They also act as agents to popularize the various schemes of the government.
 
 “They will be given a diary in which they have to enter the information about people who they have met, age, profession, caste and the remarks on a daily basis,” said a leader.
 
 The vistarak plan is aimed at establishing direct contact with people ahead of the state assembly elections to be held next year and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 “Motorcycles are the best mode of transport to reach out to the people in remote and rural areas where other vehicles cannot reach,” reasoned a party worker.
 
 The state   unit started recruiting party workers for playing the role of vistaraks (volunteers) in January this year for which two committees at state and district levels have been formed to recruit the vistaraks and organize training. They have to fill in a column stating the duration of their service.
 
 Rajasthan has now 45,000 vistaraks who have opted for a 15-day period; 200 vistaraks in each of the 200 assembly seats in the state have opted to work for six months and one year, said a party source.
 
 The party national president Amit Shah during this three-day visit to Jaipur had special session with the vistaraks and told them about their task.
 
 The BJP has successfully tested the idea of using motorcycles in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. BJP spent over Rs 6 crore in purchasing 1,600 motorcycles — with white background, saffron stripes and a lotus symbol -- for the UP election campaign.
 
 
