CHANDIGARH: The Ascent of John Company, a book on subject of the East India Company in Bengal from 1756 to 1787, was released here at the   on Sunday. This is the fourth book of author G S Cheema, a former civil servant, who retired from Punjab cadre in 2009. The previous three were also on historical subjects. The book is published by   and Distributors of Daryaganj, New Delhi. 

 The book was released by a distinguished art historian and Padma Bhushan awardee Dr B N  . Dr Nuruddin Farah, a Somali writer and novelist, presided the event. Dr Farah happens to be a former alumnus of   (PU), where he received his first bachelor’s degree. PU is honouring him with a doctorate, honoris causa. In 1998, he was awarded the Neustadt International Prize for Literature.
 
 The audience at the launch included the cream of Chandigarh society, retired civil servants, chief secretaries and high court judges. Dr Goswamy introduced the book and gave a talk laced with the verses of Josh Malihabadi.
 
 The book is about the founding of the British empire in India with particular emphasis on Bengal. It starts with the accession of Siraj ud-Daulah in 1756 to the incident of the black hole of Calcutta, goes on to the battle of Plassey and ends with the recall of Warren Hastings in 1787. In these 30 years, the foundations of the future empire were laid, but the story is an unedifying narrative of corruption and sordid intrigues. As the salaries paid by John Company Bahadur as the East India Company was then generally called, colloquially, were pathetically low, so the company servants made their money by illicit private trade along with bribes and presents.
 
 Cheema’s book reveals that the situation was so bad that even Sir Eyre Coote, the commander of the   – otherwise a fine general – refused to take the field unless he was paid a handsome addition to his salary under the guise of ‘field allowance’. He was already getting two salaries, one as a commander of the Army and the other as a member of the supreme council which along with the governor, constituted the executive of the presidency. This field allowance was squeezed from the hapless Nawab of Awadh, the nominal Prime Minister of the Mughal empire.
 
 Book further entails that both Clive and Hastings were investigated on their return to England, and in the latter case, it led to a full-blown impeachment. Though the impeachment failed, the corrupt practices of the company servants were fully exposed to public view during those seven years. Ultimately, the acquittal of Hastings was political. Great fortunes were made, both by the servants of the company as well as their Indian collaborators, banias, munshis, and gomashtas. But while a few became immensely rich, the country was impoverished.
 
