CHENNAI: Three people of Ellaiamman Koil Street at New Gummudipoondi in   district have died since Monday of viral pneumonia, which doctors suspect to be  . Fourteen other residents, including 10 children from the same street, have been admitted to two state-run hospitals in the city following complaints of cough, cold and fever.

 Srinivasan, 28, and Angammal, 54, died on Monday while Ramesh, 20, succumbed to the illness on Tuesday.
 
 Nearly 50 people belonging to the irula community live in about 15 huts beside a canal and work as daily labourers. “Symptoms in these patients look like an infective viral pneumonia, resembling H1N1. Test results are expected on Thursday, but we gave all the patients and their relatives Tamiflu. They live together in small dwelling units. So there is a severe cross infection. More than half of the people in the area had symptoms of respiratory infection,” said director of public health Dr  , who was leading a team of doctors camping in New Gummudipoondi.
 
 Doctors at the   and the Institute of Child health said 14 other patients who have been admitted to their hospitals were stable. They have been admitted in isolation wards. “Many of them have severe lower respiratory tract infection but they are responding well to treatment,” said a senior paediatrician at the Institute of Child Health. Patient attenders, doctors and paramedical staff have also been given medicines to prevent cross infection in the hospital. Visitors were barred in these wards.
 
 Meanwhile, residents of Ellaiamman Koil Street have been moved to a community home in the same village. Residents told doctors that many of them had been suffering from severe cold and cough for a few days. They had not met a doctor because they assumed it wasn’t anything serious, said DPH deputy director Dr J Prabhakaran.
 
 On Saturday, a village health nurse visited the street to meet a pregnant woman who skipped a blood test the previous day at a primary health centre in Kavarapatti. “When a pregnant woman skips tests, these nurses visit her at home. The nurse found that the woman had an abortion. She was weak and was running a temperature. The nurse admitted the woman to the health centre,” said Dr Prabhakaran.
 
 The woman’s two children, aged six and eight, accompanied her to the hospital. Doctors in the PHC found that the children had respiratory problems and high temperature. When they heard that several others in the village had similar symptoms, senior officials were alerted.
 
 On Monday, a team of doctors and paramedics found more than 20 people with respiratory symptoms. Three of them had severe respiratory distress and 14 others had severe symptoms. “I wish we had organised a camp on Sunday,” said Dr Kolandasamy.
 
 
