BENGALURU: With   staring at the fourth successive year of drought, efforts to revive the   provide hope of resolving the   between the two states amicably.

 The Cauvery Family, an apolitical body comprising intellectuals,   from both states, was founded in 2003.Active for eight years, it couldn't survive the political machinations and has been defunct since 2011.
 
 “People must realize that politics can never provide solutions to issues like the Cauvery dispute. While we must keep politics and politicians at bay, the best thing we can do at present is to make the Cauvery Family functional again,“ said Kuruburu Shanthakumar, president, All-India Sugarcane Growers Association, a member of the body.
 
 Shanthakumar, who represents the peasant community from Old Mysuru prov ince, said plans are afoot to organize a farmers' meet under the aegis of the Cauvery Family in September. The meet to be attended by farmers from the riparian states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and Puducherry would mark the family's revival. The leaders would chalk out a plan of action to reach out to both governments and farmers of the stakeholder states.
 
 Irrigation expert Captain Raja Rao sees the development as significant as it comes in the wake of the Supreme Court hearing on the water-sharing dispute, while the political scenario in Tamil Nadu is changing from what it used to be in the J Jayalalithaa era. “The SC judgment expected at the end of the ongoing argu ments will supersede the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal's award, and hence it will have a ramification on the political and social scenario in the riparian states. The role of social organizations will be significant in that context,“ said Rao.
 
 S Janakarajan, founder of the Cauvery Family, said the group will wait for the SC verdict before firming up plans to bring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu farmers together. Farmers can be convinced if the court's formula is agreeable to both sides and politics is kept aside.“Farmers from the two states are friends and politicians are trying to make them enemies. I am sure, we can keep the enmity at bay,“ Janakarajan said.
 
 
 
 
 Janakarajan, former economist from Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) and president of South Asia Consortium for Inter-dispute Water Resources Studies, attributed last year's violence in Bengaluru to the political chauvinism of both states. “The focus of the Cauvery Family is not just on sharing of water, but groundwater depletion, river water management, pollution load on the river and the requirement to change crop pattern,“ he said.
 
