KOLKATA: Billboards along the E M Bypass on the way to airport tell you the  . Its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has more than doubled since   took office in 2011. So have the state’s revenues.

 But there are challenges as well that the government will have to address. The rising debt liability is an important component of the state’s committed expenditure, which includes interests, wages and salary and pension, and this will be of concern for state finance minister Amit Mitra, who presents Bengal’s   on Friday. Mitra has been able to pull the poor tax-to-GSDP ratio from 40.65% in 2010-11 to 31.86% in 2015-16. Setting high targets of expenditure control and increasing the tax base are two important challenges that Mitra may have to do to pull his state out of a poor tax-to-GSDP ratio.
 
 But important elections looming ahead may reduce the finance minister’s space to manoeuvre. The   are scheduled in 2018 and the next   poll will be held in 2019. This will make it difficult for the government to tweak budgetary allocations for some key areas — panchayat and rural development, health and education — and also the centrally assisted projects for which the Narendra Modi government has slashed grants.
 
 Aware of all these challenges, the Mamata Banerjee government has therefore tried to cut flab in government machinery by clubbing state departments and merging around 40 state undertakings. This may reduce the government’s cost to some extent though employees will continue getting salary. But this will be no match for the additional liability on the government on salary account once it has to implement the Seventh State Pay Commission.
 
 According to rough estimates, paying out the 50% DA backlog for 11 lakh state employees will entail an additional expenditure of Rs 18,000 crore. A 14% hike translates to Rs 17,100 crore more and it will be up to the government when and to what extent it will do this. This additional liability of about Rs 35,000 crore taken together, along with the rising annual outgo on debt servicing — Rs 36,869.31 crore in 2016-17, Rs 47,000 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 51,000 crore in 2018-19 — makes things difficult for the government as it’s more than its own tax generation of around Rs 45,000 crore. The state government, which has taken Narendra Modi head-on on several issues, will hate a situation where it has to depend on the Centre.
 
 Like in the last state budget, the state finance minister is likely to keep  ,   roll-out some time this year. Economists feel Bengal, being a consuming state, is likely to gain from the GST regime, with states getting a share of the tax on services that now goes to the Centre. The state will definitely gain from the recurrent increase in petrol prices since June 2016 because it has a cess on petrol consumption that won’t be subsumed in the new tax regime. Another key revenue source could be the coal sector. State officials hope to save huge money by introducing transparency in mining operations in the coal blocks at Panchwara North and Barjora North. Another area is, of course, liquor because rising revenue from this sector has helped keep the state economy afloat.
 
 Jayanta Dwibedi, BKC College associate professor, maintains the state needs to include new people in the tax base to break the stalemate. “The finance minister did quite well in the first two years 2011-12 and 2012-13. He could deliver an impressive growth rate and also a decent jump in own tax generation. But the rate of tax growth has plateaued in the last three fiscals and we can’t afford a slump because of Bengal’s tax-to-GSDP ratio ,” Dwibedi said.
 
 
