Though one of the ancient Durga temples in eastern India — also considered a Shakti Peetha in the country — is located at Nartiang in the Jaintia Hills, the first ever Durga Puja was initiated by the Gorkha Regiment in Shillong way back in 1864.

 “The Gorkha regiment jawans initiated the tradition of worshipping Goddess Durga on the ground behind Bara Bazar, which houses the Nepali Durga Mandir now. Initially, there was no idol and ‘puja’ was performed by jawans with the worshipping of the ‘ghot’ or earthen pot,” says BB Chettri, the octogenarian Gorkha leader, who is the former president of the Gorkha Puja Committee.
 
 “The Gorkhas are not idol worshippers but continued worshipping the goddess symbolically until 1942. Since then the Bengali tradition of worshipping the Durga idol began,” says Chettri, who is an elder member of the Central Puja Committee, Meghalaya. “Worship of weapons, including the traditional Gorkha khukri and dao is also an integral part of our puja,” he says, adding that sacrifice of vegetables and animals is an accepted ritual.
 
 “We offer ‘pancha bali’, involving five different kinds of sacrifice, which include bananas, pumpkins, ducks, male goats and buffaloes,” Chettri says.
 
 The ‘phool pati’ ritual of the Gorkhas is unique, says Chettri, explaining that on the first day of the puja, the ghot, symbolizing the goddess, is brought in a ceremonial procession to the mandap or altar at the Gorkha Durga Mandir, where marble idols of the goddess have been installed. However, the first ‘sarbojonin’ or community Durga Puja, involving the public, was organized by the Sanatan Dharma Sabha, the present day Hari Sabha at Laban in the city in 1896.
 
 “Due to the absence of a motorable road between Shillong and Gauhati, the worshippers brought the idols from West Bengal, half way by train, then by steamer, and then by a vehicle to Gauhati. From Gauhati to Shillong, the idols were brought by bullock cart which took three days to reach. The priest was sourced from Sylhet, who crossed the hills on foot,” says Uma Purkayasthya, an eminent academician. 
 
