PUNE: For   (retd), Saturday was special as his fellow airmen gathered together for his felicitation. Shinde was awarded Vir Chakra (gallantry award) for displaying   against Pakistan.

 Altogether nine octogenarian Indian Air Force (IAF) officers were felicitated by the Air Force Association of India at Air Force Station, Lohegaon.
 
 The association is a non-political body with a mandate to promote the welfare of retired air force personnel, their families and families of those who are deceased. 
 
 Group Captain Suhas Phatak (retd), in-charge of the association, Pune branch, told TOI, “The main aim behind this initiative is to revisit the valour of the personnel while serving the nation. The octogenarian stage of life is very crucial where your require support from each section of the society and hence we decided to arrange a special function for them so that they will not feel isolated from the service and the society.” he explained.
 
 Recalling his 1971 war memories, Air Commodore Shinde, told TOI, “It was a co-incidence that the war broke out on my birthday on December 3. I was posted at Adampur Air Force station as a fighter pilot of Sukhoi 7 fighter aircraft. As soon as I got the order from the higher-ups, I did sorties deep into Pakistan and bombed Lahore areas.” Shinde is the grandson of Mahrshi Vitthal Ramji Shinde, a social reformer from Maharashtra.
 
 Wing Commander Surendra Phansalkar (retd) who fought in 1965 and 1971 war and was also felicitated on the occasion, said, “I was surprised when they invited me for this function. It was a really good function as I could meet my contemporaries from the force. ”
 
 Air Marshal Vijay Patkar (retd), who was the chief guest , said that this initiative should be celebrated with pride as we need to remember the contributions of those airmen who have served in the force. “In this stage of life, many personnel are not physically fit and also detached from the society. If we could make them feel that we still remember them, it’s a great gesture. It is a unique way to revisit the memories.” Patkar said.
 
