Lucknow: A fast-track court on Saturday awarded life imprisonment to the the accused in the   and   case. 

 Ram Sewak Yadav was convicted for raping, inflicting injuries and causing the death of a middle-aged woman in 2014. The   was recovered from the   of a primary school in   on July 17, 2014. The incident had caused panic in the area and in Lucknow. The   had said that the investigation was being referred to CBI but later, police concluded the investigation and filed a   the sole accused Yadav, a security guard.
 
  sentenced Yadav under section 302 for murder, 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment under section 376 (A) for rape and for causing murderous assault and seven years under section 201 for removing evidence of the crime. The court said that all the sentences would run concurrently. Apart from corporal punishment, the court also imposed a fine of Rs 13,000 on the convict.
 
 The court had convicted Yadav on Friday and posted the matter on Saturday for hearing on the quantum of sentence. Yadav’s advocate   pleaded for leniency, citing this as Yadav’s first offence. He also said that Yadav had two minor children who along with his wife were dependent on him. 
 
 Public prosecutors Pratibha Rai and Dhiraj Singh demanded capital sentence pleading that it was a heinous crime against society and the convict did not deserve any sympathy. 
 
 The FIR in the case was lodged by Nokhe Lal against unnamed accused. The police nabbed Yadav on July 21, 2014. The chargesheet was submitted on October 16, 2014.
 
 In its judgment, the court found the location of the mobile numbers of the victim and the convict in the same tower around 11pm. The court further noted that the blood on the clothes of the convict matched with that of the victim. The DNA test and hair examination result also proved the presence of the convict at the place of crime. The court also found the testimony of the victim’s minor daughter very reliable that the accused had called the victim on the fateful day. The prosecution had produced as many as 18 witnesses in support of its case.
 
 
