NEW DELHI:   today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2017. The company posted 28% year-on-year increase in orders booked, driven by government initiatives and investments. 

 The orders received for the first quarter were of Rs 2,342 crore. An order backlog of Rs 12,023 crore, as on March 31, 2017, provides solid visibility for future revenue, the power and automation technology company said in a statement on Monday.
 
 ABB India's revenue in the first quarter grew year-on-year to Rs 2,169 crore. Sector specific demand revival and an easing in customer payment options have added to this growth. 
 
 ABB India's profit before tax (PBT) increased to Rs 131 crore and profit after tax (PAT) to Rs 88 crore in the quarter ended March 31, 2017, with the adoption of the new accounting standards from this quarter. Customizable offerings, continued focus on cash and cost, differentiated portfolio that match India's vision of growth with digital technologies have supported year-on-year improvement in the net working capital position. 
 
 ABB India has seen sustained growth on the back of   government's initiative to provide 24x7 reliable power to all. In order to supply 24x7 reliable power to all, state utilities digitalized parts of their networks and upgraded systems extending to various remote locations. 
 
 "Our determined execution and putting customers at the heart of our technology solutions have ensured that we continue to grow in a mixed market," said  , CEO and Managing Director,   India. "These are exciting times to be in business with the energy and fourth industrial revolution transforming our grids, homes and shop-floors with government initiatives of smart power for all and make in India. From electric vehicles to clean energy, smart factories - we are witnessing digital green-shoots across sectors and are totally focused and energized to drive the transformation with our customers and the recently launched ABB AbilityTM digital portfolio," he added. 
 
 "We have continued to grow in a market of select sectoral growth with a keen focus on cash and cost with a view to deliver value-additions to our customers. The traction in transportation and infrastructure has led to us to deliver multiple projects of national importance," Sharma emphasised."At a time when customers are expressing interest in digitalization, we are very excited to lead the next level of digital growth in the country with our industry leading portfolio of 180 solutions in ABB AbilityTM," he added.
 
