CHENNAI: Moviegoers will now have to pay 153 instead of 120 for a ticket in city multiplexes as theatres across   reopen on Friday following the end of the four-day strike called by theatre owners. The new price has been arrived at by levying 28%   (GST) on the maximum fare of 120 that was fixed by the state through a government order 10 years ago. 

 Until the implementation of GST on July 1, theatre owners paid 30% of the fixed price of 120 as entertainment tax to the state. Through a bill in the assembly session, the government transferred the right to collect the 30% entertainment tax to local bodies. Theatre owners called an indefinite strike on Monday, opposing the levying of the entertainment tax in addition to the GST. It remains to be seen if the new price will include the 30% entertainment tax component. If TN decides to remove the entertainment tax, the film trade stands to benefit as theatre owners will then have to pay only 33.60 GST as tax. 
 
 DMK leader   and AIADMK Puratchi Thalaivi Amma head O Panneerselvam opposed the double taxation and wanted the state to do away with the entertainment tax. 
 
 Tamil Nadu Cinema Theatre Owners Federation president Abirami Ramanathan, who called off the strike said, “Theatres will shut down if double taxation is imposed. The average occupancy in a theatre has reduced from 70% to 30% in the past few decades. Footfalls have reduced and our operational costs which includes air conditioning has only gone up. “After repeated talks with film industry representatives over the past week, the state government has decided to form a 12-member committee to decide on the fate of the entertainment tax. Irrespective of the decision taken by the committee, the consumer will have to pay `153 as the maximum fare. The committee will include six government officials. The other six will include Tamil Film Producers Council president Vishal, honorary secretary Kathiresan and secretary SR Prabhu, apart from Tamil Film Chamber of Commerce president Abirami Ramanathan, veteran distributor Tirupur Subramaniam and Tamil Nadu Film Distributors Association president Arul Pathy.
 
 Due to the four-day strike, at least 10 films that released in the last two weeks were hit.
 
 Film distributor of `Ivan Thanthiran', G Dhananjayan, demanded monetary compensation for losses suffered due to the strike.
 
 The price of tickets increased in metros across the country from July 1. The price increased from `200 to `256 in Bengaluru after the levy of 28% GST. Similarly there was a 28% rise in the regular fare of `250 in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram and `225 in Telangana.
 
