Bhopal: Two persons were arrested in Gwalior on Sunday for their alleged involvement in job fraud. The two accused – Ram Awatar Shakya and Hemant Pawaiya, were held on charges of cheating several job aspirants of huge cash by promising them jobs in the Indian Air Force (IAF). Shakya’s son was arrested six months ago when he was trying to make an unauthorised entry in Gwalior airbase in the IAF uniform. 

 CSP Nagendra Singh said they had allegedly collected amounts ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh, promising jobs in the IAF. 
 
 “We identified four people, who fell in their trap. They extracted money from gullible people promising them jobs in the IAF. Police investigations are on to find out how many people were cheated and how much money they took from the unsuspecting victims,” the police officer said.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, the duo was arrested. “To gain trust, Shakya used to show the Facebook profile of his son wherein he had uploaded pictures in IAF uniform,” said the CSP. Once Shakya gets paid, he issued fake appointment letters which he had printed with the help of Pawaiya, who owned a photocopy shop in Gwalior city. 
 
 Some fake offer letters were recovered from the shop. Both were booked under sections of forgery. Shakya’s 26-year-old son Vihul was caught in January this year when he was attempting to gain an unlawful entry in the IAF base at Maharajpur, Gwalior. Dressed in the IAF uniform, he was trying to impress his wife and in-laws, police said. 
 
 During interrogation by intelligence agencies, Vihul said he had lied to his parents and in-laws that he was working with the IAF. He got married telling in-laws he was with the IAF. When his in-laws insisted to take them around the IAF base for a visit, he was left with no option. He put on the IAF uniform and attempted to enter the secured premises. 
 
 IAF security guards, however, got suspicious and apprehended him. At that time it was found Vihul had worked as a contractual labourer in the IAF. 
 
 During that period, he managed to get the uniform stitched to make his parents believe he was in the force, said the officer. “As of now we are not sure if father and son were involved in this fraud. The son is already in jail,” the CSP said.
 
 
