Chandigarh: An internal inquiry by Punjab police into a case related to recovery of scheduled drugs that can be sold only against valid prescription in Bathinda, has found that senior superintendent of police (SSP) had wrongly given a clean chit to the key accused.

 The case relates to recovery of four drugs gardinal, phenobarbitone, aoprazolan and propranolal from the residence of Bathinda businessman Govind Gupta on April 10 this year. Gupta was booked under the NDPS Act for illegally keeping more than 2,000 capsules of these drugs.
 
 However, eight days later,   Naveen Singla, approved a cancellation report submitted by his DSP Gurjit Ramana (an inspector rank cop given the charge of DSP) seeking discharge of Gupta. The report said Gupta had a licence to run a shop to sell these drugs. However, a high-level inquiry has now found five discrepancies in Singla's report.
 
 The first part of the inquiry says that drugs were recovered from a house which also doubles up as a mobile phone shop. Second, the licence for the shop was issued to Gupta’s father Rakesh who was dead.
 
 “The photographs attached in the report reveal that it is not a chemist’s shop and is a mobile phone shop. There is a board announcing OPPO. Besides the licence to sell any drugs was issued to the accused's father who has been dead for long," the report said.
 
 According to the NDPS Act as well as drugs and cosmetics Act, only a designated place can be allowed to sell the sensitive drugs.
 
 The inquiry has also found glaring discrepancies in the Bathinda police probe.
 
 It says the Bathinda DSP never visited the crime spot. Fourth, it said that the Bathinda police never included the original investigation officer of the case, sub inspector Sukhwinder Kaur in the re-investigation.
 
 The inquiry also says there was over dependence on the report by the drug inspector. The inquiry was ordered by Singla's immediate boss IG(Bathinda Zone) Mukhwinder Chhina after he smelt a rat in the discharge of the accused.
 
 The inquiry has been completed by Faridkot SSP Nanak Singh and his SP (investigation) SP Malhi.
 
 Chhina, in his inquiry had also asked Faridkot SSP, to find out any dereliction of duty in the case. This part has been left blank by Nanak but the Bathinda IG has now asked his deputy Ashish Choudhary to ascertain the derelection of duty and suggest action.
 
 
