Looking every bit a hero in real life too,  , a sub-inspector of the   is also playing a reel-life cop in the   starrer ' ' being shot in the city these days. In the film, Siddiqui accompanies Devgn on the raids he conducts as an   officer. "I have always loved acting and used to participate in school and college plays," says Siddiqui who is posted as an SI in UP 100, Lucknow these days. "I consider Ajay Devgn my role model so when I got to know of this film being shot here in Lucknow with him as lead, I wanted to act in it too. And as luck would have it I got to play a role in it," adds Siddiqui, who has also acted in the film 'Lupt' which was shot in Lucknow earlier this year. 
What attracted Siddiqui to the movie was its story and also because it starred Ajay Devgn. "This film has a very interesting story and is based on real life incidents which I found very interesting. And Ajay ji of course is a brilliant hero and I love his acting so that was a plus too. In fact maine moochhen bhi unke jaisi hi rakhin hain," says Siddiqui, who sought permission from his seniors to act in the film and then took leave to fulfill his dream. 
 And like Siddiqui, for  , an assistant sub inspector of the Uttar Pradesh Police, acting in a film with Ajay Devgn, his favourite hero, is a dream come true. Singh, who is posted in Lucknow these days, could hardly believe his luck as he was chosen to play a police officer who accompanies Devgn on all the raids conducted by him in the film.
 “I had never thought that a day will come when I will get to stand beside Ajay ji and shoot for a film," says Singh, who is shooting with the 'Singham' star at   on the outskirts of Lucknow these days. A full time policeman, Singh always harboured dreams of acting and was part of the film 'Gangs Of Wasseypur' too. "Acting ka shauq bachpan se tha toh jab mauka mila tab acting kar li. But when I got to know that a film with Ajay Devgn will be shot in Lucknow, I just wanted to act in it because he is my favourite hero. I have loved his acting and his style right from his first film 'Phool Aur Kaante'. Isliye sirf Ajay ji ko dekhne ke liye, unse milne ke liye, unke paas jaane ke liye aur sirf unke liye maine iss film ke liye audition diya," says Singh, who had for some time also sported the same hairstyle as Devgn.
 A strict officer in real life, Singh is getting to replicate that on screen as well. "I play a Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) officer who accompanies Ajay Devgn, who is an Income Tax officer in the film, on all the raids he conducts at minister's and government official's places. So I get to be in almost all action scenes with Ajay ji," says Singh who can’t help but exult in it.
 Citing full cooperation from their seniors, Siddiqui and Singh say they have all the support and encouragement they can get from the UP police senior officials who let them indulge in their passion of acting. 
 "We work with full sincerity when we are on our real job. My job as a policeman is my priority but if I get to pursue my passion also, toh aur bhi achha hai," says Siddiqui, adding, "Our seniors are very understanding and very cooperative.They have never said no to my acting. In fact, some of our senior officers have acted in some very big films so they understand my passion for acting." 
 Agreeing with Siddiqui, Singh says, "It's only because of the encouragement and support of my seniors in the police force that I am being able to pursue my passion. In fact, they appreciate that I am doing something creative. I am very fortunate to be able to do what I love, being a policeman and sometimes act too."
 
