VISAKHAPATNAM: When tourists and denizens interested to know about   log in to its website, they are greeted with 3 photographs of ministers and MPs on the home page. The website opens with photographs of AP chief minister  , HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao and panchayat raj minister Ch Ayyanna Patrudu. 

 Even though this is a public event meant for building the brand image of Vizag and promoting tourism, it appears that Visakha Utsav is more a political propaganda featuring only politicians. Though a few pictures of the city and places to visit in Vizag appear in the photo gallery in the website, it is the pictures of politicians that have been given prominence.
 
 The website also lists names and photos of MPs and MLAs of Vizag district.
 
 Also, the venue for the three-day fest slated for January 28, 29 and 30 is the overcrowded RK Beach and surrounding areas. 
 
 “Instead of RK Beach which is already overcrowded, the venue could have been Vuda Park, Central Park,   Grounds, Shilparamam and so on. There are also plans to install temple replicas on RK Beach as part of the festival. Some of these temples may not be located in Vizag. The replicas would be made of plaster of paris and mostly non-eco-friendly materials, which will cause more damage to the ecology,” said city-based environmentalist  .
 
 “Apart from this, plastic water sachets littered on the beach would end up in the sea, polluting the environment. The organisers should provide drinking water tanks and glasses instead of water sachets,” he added.
 
 In fact, there won’t be any value addition if the already crowded RK Beach is selected as the venue for the festival for which the state government has sanctioned Rs 2.75 crore. “The Wind Festival was recently held in AU Engineering College grounds. The chief minister Chandrababu Naidu and Union minister   had commented that if the venue was RK Beach, more public could be expected. Now, all official machinery is focussed only on RK Beach. However, it’s not for the venue but the faulty management that put off the crowd. There most of the seats were reserved for VIPs and VVIPs who hardly turned up or left within a few minutes. Seats for the public were at least 100-150 feet away from the stage, making it extremely difficult for them to see or hear the musical performance of wind instruments. Therefore, the audience also had left disappointed. This time at least, the Visakha Utsav should be more public and tourism centric rather than get politicised,” pointed out a source associated with the department of tourism.
 
 Meanwhile, for the utsav, an array of entertainment and cultural programmes have been planned around RK Beach. As per the official website, various traditional folk and tribal art, dance and music, classical dance, food courts, barbeque pit and cooking contest, bamboo installations, flower shows, amusement rides, sand art display, Lepakshi and APTDC pavilions, handicraft stalls, graffiti wall and painting, beach volleyball, sports and adventure activities, kite festival and LED kites, Quad bikes, fireworks display would be the highlights of the festival.
 
