KOLKATA: Former   assistant director   - in the centre of controversy recently after he was spotted with Rose Valley chief Gautam Kundu's wife Subhra - has been summoned to Shakespeare Sarani police station for the second time. The fresh notice was served on him late Thursday evening and he has been asked to join investigations in two daysThe Calcutta high court earlier rejected his anticipatory bail.

 The case pertains to a chartered accountant's complaints of extortion by Kumar and his officers with active support from a middleman.
 
 Cops had earlier indicated that they want to question Kumar in both cases ­ the other one pertaining to Kundu, a case for which has been drawn up at the Hare Street police station.
 
 Earlier, he had failed to turn up after being summoned to Lalbazar in the Subhra Kundu case.
 
 According to joint CP (crime) Vishal Garg, the Shakespeare Sarani police lodged an FIR on February 28 after a complaint by Kamal Somani, a CA. The letter alleged that on May12 last year, his office and house was raided by ED officials under Manoj Kumar, who was then ED assistant director.
 
 Going by the case diary submitted to the HC, Somani settled for Rs 75 lakh, of which he paid Rs 40 lakh to the middleman. Police rounded up Hirawat based on Somani's complaint. According to police, Manoj got close to Hirawat as the latter used to book his private tours with Subhra. Police also have the call records between Kumar and Hirawat and have got hold of documents that show money for the tours went to Hirawat's bank account from Kumar's. Things took a turn when Hirawat, in his magisterial statement under CrPC Section 164, said Kumar was the brain behind the entire operation. Kumar's lawyer Y Z Dastoor submitted to the court his client had conducted the raids at Somani's office but did not ask for money.
 
 
 
 
 The HC has admitted a PIL seeking probe by an independent agency in a January 7 case lodged by Hare Street police that pertains partly to the Rose Valley scam. While probing the origin of seized banned currency of face value Rs 1,42,50,000, the cops reportedly came across computer files named Madam Rose Valley and Rose Valley. Nikunj Berlia, an advocate, moved the PIL seeking an independent probe in the matter through counsel Phiroze Edulji before acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapash Mookherjee. 
 
