GURGAON: The state government on Wednesday launched two dedicated cells for non-resident Indians (NRIs) — one for redress of grievances and the other for facilitation of investment.

 While the grievances redress cell would deal with the complaints of NRIs, the other cell would be to facilitate their investment and take up suggestions from them,   said on the concluding day of the Pravasi Haryana Divas on Wednesday. “I will personally supervise the two cells and hold Pravasi Haryana Divas once every two years, along with the investment summit,” he added.
 
 The cell concerning the complaints of NRIs will be headed by a DIG-rank officer and it will have a field unit in every district of the state. “Pravasis can file complaints related to police or any other grievances and the same will be resolved on priority basis,” said Khattar.
 
 Both the cells have a common mobile number (8968420002) and e-mail ID (nricellharyana@gmail.com), which can be used by any   to reach the government. “However, the complaint cell’s system will be integrated with CM Window. I will look into the grievances of NRIs from time to time and ensure speedy disposal of the same,” said Khattar.
 
 Pitching the state as a favoured investment destination after launching the NRI Cell (for investment), Khattar told pravasis, “You have been brand ambassadors of Haryana, now we seek your cooperation and investment in the form of time, effort and capital, to accelerate the realisation of the state government’s vision for Haryana.” “Pravasis can contact the NRI Cell for   queries, investment interest and any other suggestion.”
 
 Stating the government has changed more than 300 laws and rules in less than four months to make Haryana among the top five states in the World Bank Group’s ranking of Indian states on Ease of Doing Business, the chief minister said, “In the last five decades of its existence, Haryana has emerged as one of the most progressive and developing states, but there are much more to achieve and pravasis can help in this”.
 
 
