Bathinda: The Congress in Punjab has asked justice Ranjit Singh (retired) to visit the places associated with acts of sacrilege at Kotkapura, Behbal Kalan, Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, all in Faridkot district. The one-man commission of inquiry, in a public notice issued on Thursday, announced to visit the places for three days from August 16-18.

 The commission has asked the people to get their statements recorded. Justice Singh will visit Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on August 16 and Bargari and Burj Jawahar on August 17. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in the run up to the February 4 assembly elections, had promised to probe the cases of sacrilege and solve these at the earliest. The commission of inquiry was appointed on April 14 to inquire into acts of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, Bhagavad Gita and Quran Sharif.
 
 Earlier, the SAD-BJP government had appointed justice Zora Singh as the head of a one-man commission to probe the sacrilege cases and submit a report. Also, a few Sikh organisations had appointed former Supreme Court judge justice Markandey Katju to head the ‘People’s Commission’ to investigate the sacrilege cases and incidents related to those.
 
 At Bargari, torn pages from Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered near the village gurdwara on October 12, 2015. Two days later, police had resorted to lathi-charge and water canon on protesters at Kotkapura and fired at protesters at Behbal Kalan later where two Sikhs—Gurjit Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh—were killed.
 
 “The commission will identify and inquire into the role of police officials in regard to incidents and also incomplete and inconclusive investigations of the incidents of sacrilege. It will pay a visit to Kotkapura, Behbal Kalan, Bargari to get first hand information about incidents,” said a government official.
 
 As per the public notice, the commission so far has recorded evidence of more than 60 witnesses, mainly the police personnel who were present at Kotkapura, Behbal Kalan and Bargari on fateful days and were allegedly considered responsible for the action. 
 
 
