GURUGRAM: A four-member gang of  , in their early-to-mid 20s, who cheated many people by  , was busted on Friday. The accused had duped around 50 people of over Rs 20 lakh in total, in only the last three months, by employing a unique trick, police said.

 The mastermind, Raghav, was employed at the canteen of a multiplex at  , Sector 29, not too long ago. One of his accomplices was currently working there. Police have recovered a laptop and three electronic gadgets, which they used to clone plastic cards.
 
 The accused had bought the card reader and card writer on an e-commerce website for Rs 27,000 and then used them to dupe many unwary customers of lakhs of rupees. All four were produced in a city court today. Police have taken them on four days remand for questioning. 
 
 The cyber crime cell was alerted following the complaint of Gurgaon-resident Drishti Bhasin, who alleged that Rs 50,000 had been fraudulently withdrawal from her account using her debit card. Following the leads provided by the cyber crime team, headed by inspector Anand Kumar, crime branch arrested the accused — Sanjay, resident of   village, Alwar district, Rajasthan; Rahul Yadav, resident of   village, Rewari district; Sonajeet, resident of Gurgaon and Ajay Raghav, resident of Mathura district, UP. 
 
 During interrogation, the accused revealed so far, they had cloned over 50 debit and credit cards, and duped many people in the NCR of a total of over Rs 20 lakh. 
 
 The gang unravelled when cyber crime cell arrested Sanjay on Wednesday, using CCTV footage of an ATM booth in   from where he used to withdraw money regularly. The three other accused were arrested on Thursday — kingpin Raghav from Mathura and the rest in Gurgaon. 
 
 “The accused would first swipe a target’s card in their card reader to store its information. They would then use an ATM card writer to clone the card, and use it for withdrawals and online transactions. They would also spy on the customer to note their secret four-digit pin number,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 He added, “They have been active only in the last three months. Raghav, confided he learnt the technique from an acquaintance. Another accused, Sanjay said he was designated with withdrawing Rs 2,000 per transaction, using the cloned card. Raghav was working at an automotive shop since 2008, and had joined PVR in January 2017 as a candy boy. He was sacked after a month because of his irresponsibility, but kept in touch with Sonajeet, who is still working at the cinema. Sonajeet would pass on the card reader to Raghav, who cloned the card on the card writer. We’re planning to contact the seller of these machines and ask them to devise ways to sell their products safely.”
 
 “We’re trying to find details of people who were duped by the gang, and also recover the stolen money. We’re also tracking the man who taught Raghav how to clone cards, so we can’t disclose his identity yet,” added Kuhar.
 
