NASHIK: The race between friends-turned-foes   and   to come to power in local bodies in the state has forced them to tie up with traditional rivals. 

 After breaking up their 25-year-old alliance and running a bitter poll campaign, the Shiv Sena and BJP are forging new alliances to come to power in local bodies, keeping aside their ideologies. Though the Congress and the NCP had announced that they would not support the saffron parties in their bid to win the mayor’s post in key municipal corporations, the situation in the rural areas is much different. 
 
 A show of the new approach was on display during the Nashik   (ZP) elections held on Tuesday to elect its president. The Shiv Sena sought the support of Congress to elect its candidate Sheetal Sangle, from Thangaon, Sinnar ZP seat, to the president’s post. 
 
 In the hard-fought  , two of the three members of the CPI (M) cast their votes in favour of Congress-Shiv Sena, while the third member, Ramesh Jadhav, refrained from voting.
 
 Contesting against Sangle was Mandakini Bankar of the Nationalist   (NCP), who had garnered support of the BJP. Sangle garnered 37 votes, while Bankar fell short of two votes. Further, Congress leader Nayana Gavit was elected as vice-president with 37 votes. Here, the BJP fell short of two votes to get its candidate Dr Atmaram Kumbharde elected to the post.
 
 The process of filing nomination for the posts of president and vice-president began at 11am and continued till 1pm. After scrutiny, the election officials gave 15 minutes time to withdraw the nomination. Since none of the candidates withdrew their nominations, the returning officers decided to conduct the election by members raising hands in support of the candidates.
 
 A total of 18 candidates from NCP, 15 from BJP and two independents raised their hands in favour of Bankar for the post of ZP president, while Shiv Sena’s 25 candidates, eight from Congress, CPM’s two members and two independents cast their vote in favour of Sangle. In the February 21 elections held , the Shiv Sena emerged the single largest party by winning 25 seats, but fell short of 11 seats to reach the magic figure of 37 in a house with a total strength of 73.
 
