NEW DELHI: Vinayak Damodar   in Marathi, banned books brought out by the revolutionary Gadar Party, a cotton cloth flag raised by the Indian National Army and other items proscribed by the   are part of an exhibition that will open for public from March 12 at the  . The exhibition, Revolutionary Patriots (1905-1947), brings to the spotlight those who contributed to the country’s freedom struggle but have been neglected by modern Indian history.

 The exhibition also includes photographs and publicity material of the many secret societies that were formed at the time in Punjab, Maharashtra and Bengal. The members of Anushilan Samiti, Abhinav Bharat Society, Naujawan Bharat Sabha, Hindustan Socialist Republican Association and Indian Republic Army played a crucial role in challenging foreign rule. The material traces the history of violent struggle that several groups of people undertook risking life and liberty for the freedom movement. Their attacks were singulalry directed at driving the British out of India. 
 
 Photographs of diagrams of a bomb to be made from a brass doorknob with instructions in Bengali, along with a hollowed book shine light on the famous Alipore bombing case where revolutionaries Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki of the Anushilan Samiti in Kolkata targeted the Presidency magistrate Douglas Kingsford in Muzaffarnagar. The book bomb is a law book hollowed out to allow for a cocoa tin of picric acid to be placed in it. 
 
 While the history of the INA has been well documented, literature by one of the lesser known organisations Hindustan Socialist Republican Association finds place at the exhibition to be inaugurated by culture secretary N K Sinha on Saturday. 
 
 Revolutionary activities also spread outside India with India House becoming a centre of Indian revolutionaries in London. Material related to the Gadar Party established in 1913 to fight racial discrimination in North America and the Berlin Committee set up in 1915 by Virendranath Chattopadhya is also part of the exhibit. 
 
