HYDERABAD: More than 8000   (CA) in Hyderabad and over 25,000 in Telangana are miffed with the   to fine them for issuing wrong certificates to their clients. The Hyderabad branch of   (ICAI) is soon calling for a meeting of its members to take up the issue at the national level. 

 "Section 271J of the finance bill proposed in the budget calls for levying a penalty of 10,000 for issuing a wrong certificate. The said fine is for each wrong certificate given in reference of a client. We will meet soon and submit our observations and suggestions on this to the ICAI at the national level which in turn will take up the issue with the Centre,"  , president of Hyderabad branch of ICAI, told TOI. 
 
 The finance bill calls for pulling up CAs, merchant bankers and registered valuers for issuing incorrect certificates or reports. According to the bill, the income tax department's assessing officer or commissioner (appeals) will have the power to levy the fine if it is found that a wrong certificate or report has been submitted by them. 
 
 Apart from conducting the statutory audit of a company's accounts, CAs give a slew of certificates on the basis of which tax exemptions can be availed. Also, the tax audit reports of the business concern are signed by CAs. Certificates are given for a number of purposes such as for for eligibility for industrial undertaking, qualifying for a housing project, tax audit and more. "In several certificates, it is also a question of discretion. The assessing officer can have an opposite view. This will give a free hand to the officer for imposing a penalty on the chartered accountants. As it is, ICAI already has strict provisions to deal with professional misconduct and such a rule is not necessary," Amruth Kumar, former president of ICAI's united AP branch said. The proposed bill gives arbitrary powers to the department and our association will soon submit a memorandum to the finance ministry, he added.
 
 CAs also argue that proposal is line will penalising them twice. "ICAI and income tax laws already have these provisions including those for prosecution in case of major frauds like the Satyam case. What is proposed in the bill will be repitative and unnecessary," K Rao said.
 
