AHMEDABAD: After members of the   refused to accept the body of  , who was killed in mob violence in Dhrangadhra town of Surendranagar district, the state police has decided to form a special
investigation team (SIT) to probe the violence that resulted in three deaths.
 
  After meeting top police officials, members of the bharwad community who were protesting at   in Asarwa, accepted the body. Community leaders said they will cremate Bharwad at his village, Chitrodi, near Dhrangadhra. 
 
 Bharwad had been stabbed and succumbed to his wounds on Sunday. Gujarat DGP Geetha Johri, said that a DIG-rank officer would conduct the inquiry against Morbi SP Jaipalsinh Rathod. What action is taken will depend on the outcome of the inquiry. “However, orders to transfer the PSI of Halvad, R A Bhojani, have been issued to the range DIG, D N Patel,” added Johri. 
 
  Bhojani was the investigating officer of the case for the FIR registered at Halvad police station for murder, rioting and violation of the Arms Act.
 
 “We have decided to form a special investigation team (SIT) headed by an IPS officer of the rank of additional DGP with one DIG and two SP-rank officers. The names of the officers for the SIT to probe the caste clashes will be announced soon,” said Johri. “The leaders of the bharwad community accepted the body at about 8pm, after they were assured of an SIT being set up to probe the caste clashes,” added Johri.
 
 Earlier, the kin of the victim had refused to cremate the body until accused were caught and a thorough probe was ordered. Senior police officials, including  , had to rush to Civil Hospital campus to persuade the community leaders to accept the body.
 
   , a community leader and member of the OBC, SC, ST Ekta Manch led by  , said that they took the decision to accept and cremate the body after getting an assurance from the DGP. “We want a fair probe and the real culprits of the murder must be held at the earliest,” Bharwad said. 
 
 Police arrested 12 persons, all from Jamnagar and the adjoining villages, for the violence in Halvad. The clashes between the bharwad and darbar communities later spread to Dhrangadhra.
 
