On their promotional tour to Delhi-NCR, actors   and   travelled throughout the city, and there was hardly any place where the two were not asked to shake a leg on the song ' '. When Varun and Alia came for a press meet after visiting different colleges in Delhi, Varun commented, "Delhi is very important for us, mere papa sabse pehle Delhi ka business dekhte hain, toh agar mujhe ghar mein rehna hai, toh Delhi mein toh meri film chalni hi chahiye."

  
 Recently, the UP Police arrested a man in Lucknow who had made ransom calls to  , threatening to hurt Alia and her mother, Soni Razdan. When Alia was asked to comment on it, she said, "I don’t want to talk much about it as everything is in control now, and the case is resolved. I would only say that I am very thankful to both UP and Mumbai Police, and my father – they didn’t give me a chance to get worried."
 
  
 
 Varun said that he had long discussions with Shashank Khaitan, the director of the film, in order to understand his character in the film better. "After a long time, I am playing a character, which is very different than I am. When I did ' ', the character was very different from what I actually am, and same is the case with this movie. Shashank worked hard to make me explain how a guy from a small town in UP would think and behave. Woh soch badalne ke liye kaafi waqt laga Shashank ko. We even had arguments on the character. I am sure that many people, who grew up in big cities, wouldn’t know how a guy from a small town would think," said Varun. 
 
 
 
  
  Shashank Khaitan
 
 
  Shashank, on the other hand, added, "We used to discuss the characters a lot, par Alia argument kam karti hai, Varun argument zyaada karta hai. We were discussing one topic and I explained to Varun 'Tumhare pitaji tumhare liye rishta fix karenge aur tum shaadi kar loge.' We were talking about Badri and he said, 'How is it possible in today’s age? A guy has to meet a girl first and then say yes.' He kept arguing with me on this and I told him ki aisa nahin hota hai, jo pitaji kehte hain, woh karna padhta hai. We were at his place having dinner and his house help entered and Varun just asked him, 'Tumhari shaadi ho gayi? Kaise hui?' I guess that guy is either from UP or Bihar. He replied, ‘10 mahine pehle hui shaadi. Main yahan par tha, aur pitaji ka phone aaya ki ladki finalise ho gayi hai, 6 mahine baad aa jao, tumhari shaadi hai.’ After listening to this, Varun looked at me and asked, ‘Yeh aaj bhi hota hai?'" 
 
 
 
