Nagpur: A unique Ram Navami is celebrated at Sindhi Vihri — Sarah and Hassan Shafiq’s La La land — some 75km from the city. The village with a population of around 1,000 looks forward to this time of the year rather eagerly because they all celebrate Ram Navami together, keeping aside all differences of caste and community. The thought of doing something useful for the village on festivals, instead of mere processions, was welcomed by the villagers. This was in 2011, soon after the Shafiqs came to Sindhi Vihri in search of a piece of land to set up their new venture, a factory to pack frozen vegetables and fruits. The village accepted them with open arms, and held them in high regard for bringing jobs to the village. The Shafiqs began by providing a small homeopathic hospital for the villagers, followed by mass marriages. Before long, the Shafiqs had chosen this village for their venture, which now provides livelihood to 500 farmers by processing and packing their produce, for export to the Middle East, Russia, Europe and Japan. Sarah says happily, “My daughters are extremely happy serving the villagers on maha prasads, and to see their contented faces I work with all my might all 365 days of the year. The villagers may be uneducated, but have a heart worth a million. They care for you unconditionally and stand by you without any limitations.” Now, Ram Navami has even become an yearly event on the calender of the relatives and friends of the Shafiq family. Ram Navami at Sindhi Vihri is a time to witness mass marriages, with a mass feast for all villagers. Couples are blessed by all the elderly after rounds of akshata showering at dusk. The happy couples then feast on farm fresh spinach cereal, rotis, kadhi and rice. This year saw some entertainment along with the rituals. Vikas Amte, son of Baba Amte, and a social worker himself, came by with his team of specially abled men and women to perform for the villagers. The enthusiastic and uber professional performers left the villagers in tears, and then overjoyed as they also out some Bollywood numbers! A health check up camp was held all through the day with dentists, homeopaths and general physicians from Kamptee and Nagpur in attendance. A team of 15 doctors sat through the day to treat and counsel villagers. The doctors visit the village every week, all through the year. Mithun Ladiwalaa, a homeopath from Nagpur, has been holding this camp for seven years now, with 250 patients treated on this Ram Navami. The villagers are overwhelmed with the awareness that he has spread in the remote area. The Shafiq family has ended up growing more than vegetables in this remote village, they have cultivated a community without boundaries.