KOLHAPUR: The primary education department of the   zilla parishad will continue its students enrolment drive for children in the age-group of aged 6 to 14 years on the occasion of   on Tuesday. 

 The drive is part of the education awareness campaign and the survey to find potential students of pre-primary and primary education category across the rural and remote areas of the district, officials said.
 
 The drive was conceived three years ago by then ZP chief executive officer  , on the occasion of Gudi Padwa, which gained instant popularity and had fetched nearly 40% of pre-admissions out of the total quota of 23,000 seats for the elementary education.
 
 Subhash Chougule, district primary education officer, said the education department had enrolled 11,000 pre-primary and primary students from the 12 talukas of the Kolhapur district in 2014-15. In 2015-16, the response rose to over 15,000  . The response was quite consistent for 2016-17 also.
 
 Chougule said, “The education department has decided to continue with the enrolment drive on Gudi Padwa and all the necessary preparations have been made.”
 
 He added that Gudi Padwa, which is also celebrated as Marathi New Year across the state, was found to be a good day to start an initiative such as this and hence the enrolment drive will be promoted under the slogan ‘Gudi Padwa: Shala pravesh vadhva’ (increase the school admissions).
 
 Chougule said, the awareness of the 25% RTE admissions will also be addressed during the initiative and awareness drive among potential beneficiaries also has been planned.
 
 “We have 2,002 schools in the district and the initiative like these gives us the opportunity to interact directly with the parents and to convince them to admit their ward in the ZP schools. There is a constructive mode of education and better facilities at the ZP schools. Our schools are competitive enough with the private schools,” he said.
 
 The schools have prepared pamphlets listing their achievements and the available infrastructure, which will act as advertisement for the campaign, Chowgule said. 
 
