HYDERABAD: In a historic recurrence, `legislation' returned to Amaravati after a gap of two millennia. For the first time in 2,200 years, Andhra `regained' the power to make its own rules and regulations from its soil. As the budget session of the   began at the dusty village of Velagapudi in the upcoming capital city of Amaravati at the auspicious 11.06 am on Monday, history was repeating itself. It was in the 2nd century BCE (Before Common Era) that the first ever recorded legislation was made on the ancient Andhra soil. 

 The commencement of the budget session from the interim assembly complex in Amaravati has provided the historic opportunity for Andhras to make their own legislation from their `own' territory. No major law was promulgated from the region after the defeat of the `Telugu kings' Satavahanas in the 3rd century CE (Common Era), ac cording to experts.Though Andhra state was formed after bifurcation of Madras Presidency in 1953, the capital was located in Kurnool in Rayalaseema. Three years later, it was merged with Hyderabad state to form Andhra Pradesh with Hyde rabad city as the capital, only to be divided again in June 2014. After the Satavahanas, all legislations governing the political, social, cultural and economic aspects of the Andhras were promulgated outside the Andhra land. As many as 20 kings, rulers, and dynasties governed over the Andhra region after the Satavahanas. But in all these instances, either their capital was located outside the Andhra territory or they did not have the powers to promulgate legislative orders. “In this backdrop, the assembly session at Velagapudi gains significance. We can say this is the first true legislation on the Andhra soil after the Satavahanas,“ pointed out Veeranjaneyulu Jasti, chairman of Amaravati Development Authority. The ancient legislation was mostly on land administration and reforms, social administration and agriculture. Andhra (Pradesh) has remained an agricultural region since then. Incidentally, though the Satavahanas were monarchs, they did not believe in the divine rights of a ruler and practised democracy based on religious texts and social customs. The state assembly too functions on democratic principles and derives its legislative powers from the Constitution. Like the present system of “ democratic governance, the Satavahana rule was also based on a council of ministers. It's good that the power of legislation has returned to Andhra soil. Much water has flown in the river Krishna down Vijayawada in the transition ­ from extra-territorial legislation to intra-territorial power to making own laws,“ says senior advocate and historian  .
 
 According to British bureaucrats of the 19th century , the history of Andhras in fact predates the Satavahanas. This means Andhras were making their own laws centuries before the Satavahanas, till the land fell into the hands of non-Andhra rulers.   (MCS) officer   writes in 1883 “doubtless, this land may have been inhabited even before European countries.“
 
 The shift of the assembly from Hyderabad to Amaravati will also signal the revival of the   that dominated the world in the 3rd century BCE and 5th century CE. AP plans to construct the new capital in Amaravati style of design.
 
