AGRA: Two days after TOI reported about a woman from Dimapur who had mortgaged her son to pay for her husband's funeral, it has now emerged that the woman vanished from a train while returning from Agra to the city in Nagaland. 

 Identified as Rita, the woman had mortgaged her son to a moneylender for Rs 2000 and had come to Agra in an attempt to earn the money. Found in destitution, the woman was claimed to have been put on the train with the help of activist Naresh Paras, who took the woman to Tundla station on Monday morning, and sought help from Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) to ensure that the woman boarded Dimapur-bound Brahmaputra Mail. 
 
 However, Dimapur Police on Wednesday confirmed to TOI they couldn't find her on the train. Naresh Paras said, "Since the train was late and I was exhausted after spending the entire day to help the poor woman, I informed Tundla RPF and GRP about the woman and asked them to help her in getting a berth in the general coach." 
 
 "It was about 2:30am and after getting assurance from a GRP constable that he would help the woman board the train, I left for Agra. Later on Tuesday, I called my sources in Guwahati to know the status of the woman but I was told that she was not there in the train," Paras added. ACP, Dimapur, Akum Lam said, "Our team couldn't find the woman when the train reached Dimapur. She was not on the train. We are now checking the CCTV footageto see if the woman alighted at Dimapur station or not." 
 
 Station officer Tundla GRP,  , said he had no knowledge of any such incident. Rita, in her late 20s, worked as a labourer in Dimapur . In October 2016, her husbanddied of medical complications. She did not have the money for his funeral, and had to mortgage her 7-year-old son, Sonu, to a moneylender in exchange for Rs 2,000. After trying for several months to gather money from various sources, Rita was told by her brother-in-law, Pappu, that he would help her earn money in Agra to get her son back. 
 
 However, on reaching the city five days ago, Pappu abandoned her. After the social activist found her and heard her story, he contacted police officials in Nagaland, who asked him to send the woman back home, where they would take over the case and try to locate the son.
 
