MUMBAI: If you think in terms of course records, then last year's   was doubly special as new timings were clocked in both, the elite men and the elite Indian men's categories, and in some style at that. And like the former, the latter also witnessed two men eclipse the previous record of 2:16:59 set by   in 2012. That's how good armymen   (2:15:48) and   (2:16:15) were on the day.

 12 months down the line, a field missing the might of the top Indian male and female runners has all but snuffed out the possibility of witnessing any such fireworks.
 
 It's pretty safe to predict Rawat's record will still be standing once the 42k run has concluded on Sunday. The man himself isn't here to give his own time a crack as he recovers from a hamstring injury which he sustained at the Rio Olympics that led to him finishing 84th. Gopi T is also missing from the lineup. He wasn't fit enough to compete here according to Surinder Singh Bhandari, the Army team's athletics coach, who also said both Rawat and Gopi T had turned their focus to this season's highlight, the IAAF World Championships, which takes place this August in London.
 
 "Our main target is the World Championship and that's what we are training for at the moment. This (Mumbai Marathon) is an additional boost for our runners as they get the exposure of competing against top level runners," said Bhandari.
 
 And so the absence of last year's winner and runner-up has consequentially seen Kheta Ram, another of Bhandari's lads, who came in third in 2016, emerge the favourite to take home the Rs 5 lakh jackpot on this occasion. But since he was also part of the Olympics campaign, he can't set his expectations too high as it's only been a little over a month since he resumed training after returning from Rio. "This is the least I've trained (for a marathon). After the Olympics, it was important to take some rest as we trained over a lenghty period leading up to it. I'll have to use my experience," said Ram whose toughest competitors are likely to be fellow armymen, Elam Singh and MD Yunus.
 
 The women's field has also been heavily diminished with the absence of Olympians and last year's top-three finishers -  ,   and OP Jaisha. Jyoti Gawate, who crossed the line in sixth (2:54:20) last year, has thus been elevated to the status of 'leading contender'.
 
