MUMBAI: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) is likely to extend   VII (Dahisar-Andheri via  ) till the   to ensure better ridership. Work on the project, which will cover 16.47km, is on in full swing and it is expected to decongest roads besides reducing overcrowding in   suburban trains.

 Metropolitan commissioner U P S Madan said, “We will have to extend the corridor by 3km near Chhatrapati Shivaji airport (domestic) station, to be built as part of the Metro III corridor.”
 
 The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation is carrying out a feasibility study of the extension route after which a final call will be taken. Madan said, “The line will pass below the existing   of Metro I (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) and move underground before terminating at the domestic airport.” The extension is expected to cost between Rs 1,500 and 2,000 crore. Madan futher said that the extended route could see two or three stations.
 
 An MMRDA official said they were planning to construct the Kanjurmarg-Jogeshwari-Lokhandwala Metro VI corridor via Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR). People from the eastern suburbs can interchange at Metro I and Metro VI, with Metro VII reaching the airport.
 
 Metro VII appears to be simplest to execute considering that it is along the WEH and there are no major issues of relief and rehabilitation. Also, since it is elevated, it could be faster to execute. 
 
 It is coming up along service roads from south to north. WEH was widened by MMRDA a few years back under the Mumbai Urban Improvement Project (MUIP). 
 
 Also, the authorities have learned a lesson from Metro I, whose bhoomi pujan was done in 2006 but work on the ground began only in 2008 as it did not have the right of way. Phase I of Metro II (D N Nagar-Dahisar) and Phase VII are north-south corridors, unlike Metro I, which had to criss-cross railway tracks and WEH. There were delays in getting the design approved from railway safety authorities, which added to the problems. Fortunately, MMRDA does not have to deal with such issues in these two projects.
 
 
