GHAZIABAD: The new   connecting Noida and Ghaziabad in Noida’s Sector 62 has opened a can of worms for traffic management on  . The highway sees traffic from Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and parts of UP. Owing to the construction of the new underpass, a crucial U-turn on the highway in Sector 62 was closed to make the highway traffic management less cumbersome.

 However, because of the absence of the U-turn, shared autos and other shared public transport from Mohan Nagar which approach the Sector 62 intersection via the CISF road in   no longer make it to the underpass to reach their destination. Instead, they take to the wrong side of the road from the opening in the divider right before the CISF intersection and approach Sector 62 while avoiding detection at the traffic checkpost at the CISF intersection. These vehicles again stop a little distance ahead of the traffic checkpost in Sector 62 to avoid the traffic cops.
 
 However, residents of the area are of the view that these traffic violations are a major threat to movement in the area and refer to the dreadful road accident in which four people lost their lives when an Audi collided head-on with an autorickshaw. The accident took place in Indirapuram on January 28.
 
 Yogesh Bhati, a resident of Indirapuram, said, “While being a boon to residents of the area on the one hand, it has also become a curse for many. Although the traffic police have managed to control a major part of the problem but new problems keep cropping up. The autos taking to the wrong side is a relatively new phenomenon. The auto drivers risk the lives of their passengers along with risking theirs,” Bhati said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ishaq Ali, an auto driver who drives on the route, said the wrong side of the road is taken by most of the auto drivers who constantly drive on the route instead of waiting at a point to load passengers. “The auto drivers do not cross over to the Noida side as they have to cross a roundabout and take the underpass to get back to the Ghaziabad side,” Ali said.
 
 Rajesh Kumar, SP (Traffic), Ghaziabad, said the traffic department had already deputed traffic police personnel to manage the traffic at the CISF intersection.
 
 
