AURANGABAD: Members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha were denied permission by the city police on Monday to resort to Chakka Jam — part of their action committee’s state-wide agitation programme.

 It all started with members of Sakal Maratha Samaj, an umbrella organization of several Maratha groups, on Monday reaching out to a local newspaper’s office on Jalna Road to protest against an advertisement published on its front page.
 
 The idea of holding a Chakka Jaam on Tuesday across the state was criticised in the appeal made though an advertisement that appeared on Monday. The advertisement said that holding Chakka Jaam agitation will only divert peaceful agitation and innocent youths will be taken on record for being part of this agitation that may get violent.
 
 The advertisement also criticised self-proclaimed leaders of the community and blamed them for not working in accordance to the things that have been finalised in the meeting held at Mumbai.
 
 Members of the community claimed the advertisement was published given by a public prosecutor from Pune. According to Morcha’s 38-year-old state coordinator Ravindra Kale-Patil, the advertisement has been intentionally published by the government to create a rift between the members.
 
 “By publishing such advertisement, the government has played a dirty trick to divide the community that for the first time has come together. The move is aimed at diverting the agitation’s attention which is getting severe with each passing day,” he said.
 
 “The agitation will be held in all districts, talukas and villages of the state, simultaneously between 10am and 2pm on Tuesday. During this time, all main roads along with national and state highways will be blocked,” he added.
 
 “In   district, the roads will be blocked at about 55 places,” said the Maratha community leader.
 
 Vinod Patil, another leader with an active involvement in the movement, said, “Through the agitation on Tuesday, the community will once again remind the government of our demands including justice in Kopardi gang rape case in the form of capital punishment, reservation for Maratha community, implementation of the recommendations made by   and uniform celebration of Shivaji Maharaj’s anniversary on February 19.
 
 Patil said the road blockage will be carried out in a peaceful manner and it will be ensured that law and order situation is maintained.
 
 Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar on Monday refused to grant permission for road blockage. “They can hold peaceful protest in the city but should ensure that they do not cause any inconvenience to others. Any obstruction to traffic will invite legal and stern police action. They have assured us that no law would be violated,” he said.
 
 In order to ensure any untoward incident, a couple of SRPF companies along with Riot Control Police, Quick Response Team and other reserve police forces have been put on standby.
 
 The first silent peace march of the community was held in Aurangabad on August 9, which saw the participation of lakhs of people. Later similar rallies were held in various cities across the state.
 
