LUCKNOW: Missed EMIs, unpaid work and a tottering world famous art apparently define the post-notebandi period for   artisans, who pushed the city of nawabs on the global map. And as poll day nears, the desire to vent their anger and frustration is at peak. 

 The chikankari artisans in Lucknow seem to have made up their minds. Most recall November 9 with a shudder, as that was the beginning of their troubles after   was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day earlier. 
 
 The percentage of buyers saw a steep fall, paralysing the finances of the artisans’ families. Factory owners like Runa Banerjee, Saba, Sadiq and Ashok dropped their exhibitions and even chikankari export took a hit due to lack of currency, they claim.
 
 Shaheen Ansari, who is 40-years-old, has a family of seven members including her mother, father and four sisters. She used to earn Rs 500-600 per day by weaving   work. But since demonetisation, she hasn’t received a single order, she reveals. Owners of chikankari outlets said that due to decreased footfalls, they now avoid calling artisans and are instead pushing old stock.
 
 Chikanwork factory owners said that cloth manufacturers too are not ready to give them cloth on credit. According to Runa Banerjee, owner of self-employed women association and leading more than 8,000 artisans, the effect of demonetisation directly impacted workers as well as buyers. 
 
 In its reality check, TOI found chikankari artisans, working since 20 years, have switched to other work in order to earn money. 
 
 A seasoned artisan, Nasreen had many permanent buyers from different states and cities, but for the past two months, she has not attended to even a single walk-in customer. “I have spent all my savings in two months and still have no hope of the situation improving”, she said.
 
 Shail Mishra (50) who works under Runa Banerjee as a team leader, told TOI that since November 20 not a single dailywage artisan is ready to do work, as they don’t even have money to commute in the city. 
 
 “Distributors buy crafted suits and pay in cheques, but when I visited the bank to withdraw money, most of the times I was told there was no cash. Moreover, even now the withdrawal limit is Rs 24000, which is not sufficient for me because I have to pay 30 people in my team daily. We have decided not to cast our vote to misleading parties but to those who are continuously dedicated towards development,” said Saira Bano, another chikan artisan.
 
 “The move has harmed us greatly. I was not able to pay my children’s fees. Moreover, I had to ask my co-artisans to stay at home till we recover from the currency crises”, said Rupa, another artisan who leads a team of 40 artisans.
 
 “I have taken a loan of Rs 1,20,000 and I have to pay Rs 5,000 every month as EMI. There are six members in my family. I was earning Rs 12,000. But since November 9, I have not paid a single penny to the bank as I have lost my job”, said Rashida, another chikan artisan.
 
 
