MUMBAI: Footpaths are bad in most parts of the city, but in a ward where three very old and famous markets that spill on to the footpath, pedestrians have an especially tough time negotiating  .

 F-North, which consists of areas like Sion, Matunga, Dadar TT, Pratiksha Nagar and Wadala has three very popular markets—Matunga Market,   and the Dadar TT market—all of which are eating into the walking space of citizens. Most of these markets have illegal hawkers and are densely crowded, often creating traffic jams.
 
 Nikhil Desai, an activist from Matunga, said the Matunga Market just outside the station has only 30 licensed hawkers but more than 300 hawkers sit on the footpath selling vegetables and fruits. “The BMC market, which was to be occupied by fruit and vegetable vendors, has now been rented out to mobile phone, clothes and beauty products sellers and all the fruit and vegetable shops are out on the footpath,” said Desai.
 
 Similar is the case with Gandhi Market, a sprawling cloth market in Sion, where hawkers selling clothing items dot the footpaths leaving very little space for pedestrians to walk.
 
 In areas like Pratiksha Nagar and Antop Hill, footpaths are virtually absent and people have to walk on the road while constantly negotiating through heavy traffic and hawkers. 
 
 “There is so much traffic in the evening on the road, but we still have to walk on the road as there are no footpaths available for people to walk. This also affects the traffic flow,” said Naresh Malap, a resident of Pratiksha Nagar.
 
 The ward is also among the worst affected by heavy water-logging in the monsoon, with areas like Dadar TT, Sion and Matunga Circle hitting the headlines every year. 
 
 Desai said for years the BMC has not been able to find a solution to the water-logging at Sion Circle and always blamed it on the area being low-lying and saucer shaped. Only recently it was found that a sewage line from the area had been illegally connected to the storm-water drain, due to which dirty water floods the area. “The BMC has in a letter informed me that they will take corrective steps, until that is done the situation will not improve. Every monsoon, traffic is affected. It takes around four hours for the water to recede,” said Desai.
 
 This ward is home to Gujaratis, South Indians and Maharashtrians, as also a large proportion of Parsis who mostly reside in Parsi Colony near Five Gardens. Areas in Dadar have traditionally voted for Sena candidates while areas around Gandhi Market and Matunga have been the fiefdom of Congress-NCP.
 
 In Wadala and Antop Hill, there have been regular complaints of mushrooming of slums on central government land and the lack of street lights.
 
