Surat: After Dutch roses and gerbera flowers, now orchids have caught fancy of many farmers in south Gujarat. Currently, over 70% of the orchids in India are imported from  . 

 With Gujarat government’s horticulture department providing subsidy up to Rs 38 lakh to orchid growers, number of farmers from Surat, Chikli and tribal area of Vasda have set up greenhouses for orchid farming. Orchid are being cultivated in over 30 acres land in south Gujarat villages.
 
 Nearly 45,000 plants can be planted in one acre land with each one costing Rs 60 lakh. Constructing a greenhouse of one acre land costs between Rs 36 and Rs 40 lakh. So the total coast of of setting up orchid farm on one acre land comes to Rs 60-65 lakh in the first year. “Against this we get subsidy of Rs 38 lakh from the state government’s horticulture department,” said  , an orchid farmer from   village in Olpad taluka of Surat. 
 
 “Over break even comes in the third year and from fourth year profits starts flowing,” Sailor said, adding that farmers have to wait for eight months to get first set of orchids. 
 
 He further said that over the years demand for flowers like gerbera has gone down, so farmers are taking up orchid farming. “Orchids are used for bouquets and stage decoration as it remains fresh for 12-15 days in a flower vase. These days yellow, pink, violet-coloured orchids are available in the market and are sold at Rs 10-13 per piece,” he added.
 
 Unlike other flowering plants, orchid need extra care and have to be cultivated on a three-feet high platform above soil. 
 
 “These plants require temperature of 32 to 35 degrees and humidity of 75-80%. One plant, the first flowers bloom only after eight months,” said  , assistant director of horticulture, Surat. “Orchids give one flower in first year. The number increases up to 6-9 flowers in a year after which number of flowers starts reducing. This happens after nearly six years,” he added.
 
 Unlike other flowering plants, orchid does not require much soil. Everything has to be provided in proportion externally. “Little extra medicine or watering could affect flowering. Precision is essential for orchid farming,” said Sailor, who plants Dutch roses and gerbera too at his Saroli-based farmhouse.
 
 
