HYDERABAD: ‘Boss is Back’ proclaims the poster of megastar Chiranjeevi’s 150th film ‘Khaidi no. 150’ which released on January 11. Chiru’s performance in the film, for which he faced the camera after 10 years, is being raved about but his report-card as MP shows him to be a dismal performer.

 The actor-turned-politician is a   member since 2012 and served as minister of state for tourism during the UPA regime. He will continue to be a member of the Rajya Sabha till 2018. As minister from October 2012 to May 2014, Chiranjeevi had taken many initiatives to promote tourism in the country. 
 
 However, a performance sheet of the 62-year-old Congress MP shows that he had not posed a single question in   up to December 16, 2016. 
 
 APCC president N Raghuveera Reddy, told TOI that Chiranjeevi had taken permission from the party command to be away from parliament and party activities. “Otherwise, he did take up the issue of special status for AP strongly,” Raghuveera Reddy said. “We are happy his film is doing well,” he said.
 
 Chiranjeevi was prodded by his fans, directors and his family to stage a comeback to the silver screen.
 
 “Please, I want to act with you,” actress Rekha had pleaded with Chiranjeevi at a Filmfare awards function in 2011, apart from   and Ramgopal Varma too asking him to go ahead and act in another film.
 
 While Chiranjeevi may not have had the time for parliament, actress Hemamalini, did make her contribution in the Lok Sabha. The BJP MP posed as many as 125 questions in the Lok Sabha. 
 
 Actor M Muralimohan of the TDP who represents Rajahmundry in Lok Sabha said much also depends on the individual to activity participate in parliament deliberations. “I take keen interest and my party also encourages me to participate in the discussions,” Muralimohan said. “I also want to continue to act but life has become busy as an MP. But even if I were to do films, I would not neglect parliament,” he said.
 
 Chiranjeevi could not be reached for his comments about his participation in the Rajya Sabha sessions.
 
 
