KOLAR/BENGALURU: A newborn sustained serious head injuries as the ceiling of the postnatal ward of a   collapsed on Monday.

 The mother of the three-day-old baby boy escaped unhurt. A resident of Toppanahalli in Bangarpet, Nethra gave birth to her son on May 20 and was recovering in the postnatal ward of SNR district hospital when the accident occured in the afternoon A 3x4 ft portion of the roof suddenly caved in. Nethra was lucky as she was at some distance from the child.
 
 Doctors conducted tests, including a CT scan, on the newborn, before referring the baby to Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) in Bengaluru. According to the district surgeon, Dr H R Shivakumar, the ceiling was very old and hence collapsed. 
 
 He said all precautions have been taken to shift the other babies and their mothers to safer places in the hospital. “The baby is reported to be out of danger according to IGICH authorities,” said Shivakumar.
 
 IGICH director, Dr Asha, told TOI the baby was admitted to the neonatal ICU and was stable. “The baby has suffered a contusion on the right side of the head,” she said. A contusion is caused when blood vessels are damaged. “The boy is taking breast feed. He weighs 3kg and is stable. We will observe his condition for couple of days,” she said.
 
 Toddler in coma after being slammed on to floor
 
 Bengaluru: A nine-month-old girl slipped into coma after she was allegedly slammed on to the floor of the house where her mother worked as a domestic help. The incident caused a gash in her forehead.
 
 The baby has been in coma for three days. A case was registered with Ulsoor police after a medico-legal memo was sent by  , where the child is undergoing treatment. The memo was sent after doctors treating the toddler felt the injuries were not caused by an accident. 
 
 Family members of the child alleged her head was slammed on to the floor by one of the house’s residents. Police, however, didn’t comment on the allegation, and said probe is on. 
 
 The baby’s mother is a full-time domestic help at the house on Aga Abbas Ali Road near Ulsoor. Her husband is also employed there and they stay in a single room. On Thursday, the toddler was sleeping on the floor and the mother had gone to bathe. When she returned, the minor grandson of the house owner appraoched her, asking her to check on the baby.
 
 To her shock, the mother saw the girl lying in a pool of blood and unconscious. The bleeding was from the cut on her forehead. She was rushed to Bowring Hospital and subsequently to Nimhans.
 
 
