PATNA: The   supporters attacked   Harihar Prasad with bamboo sticks and snatched the AK-47 magazine from the bodyguard of SP   near   on Sonepur on Thursday. Prasad received injuries in his hands. Though the SP refused to confirm saying she was busy with other works, sources said the magazine was not recovered till evening.
 
  The RJD supporters had paralysed traffic on the bridge connecting   in protest against chief minister Nitish Kumar who parted ways with Lalu Prasad and the Grand Alliance and formed government with the BJP. The officers had to retreat and reinforcement was sent to the bridge to control the situation.
  
  The DM said the supporters had blocked the bridge at around 10am by burning tyres. That resulted in traffic jam in several kilometres. “Three constables received injury in the stone pelting that took place on our vehicles when we reached the spot to pacify the RJD supporters to lift the blockade. The administration maintained restraint to avoid any violent situation keeping in mind the commuters and their vehicles,” the DM said, adding that the blockade was cleared at around 4pm.
  
  RJD supporters also indulged in violence at their party chief Lalu Prasad’s native village Phulwaria in Gopalganj district.
  
  Sources from Gopalganj said a mob led by one Lav Kush Yadav, a relative of Lalu, brought down and burned all the Nitish’s banners around Phulwari block office.
  
  Later, RJD supporters forced all employees working at the block office to leave and locked the building to avoid anyone’s entry. The violence continued for almost two hours. The situation was brought under control only after security forces from four surrounding police stations were rushed to the area. The RJD supporters also staged protest and burned effigies of Nitish at Mania Chowk in the district.
  
  Earlier in the morning, RJD supporters also blocked the Mahatma Gandhi Setu near pillar number-1 under Ganga Bridge police station area in Vaishali district for several hours by burning tyres.
  
  In Samastipur, an overbridge in Town area was blocked. The bridge is a part of state highway connecting Patna, Samastipur and Darbhanga. Samastipur SP Naval Kishore Singh said district police was already on alert after receiving the message from police headquarters.
  
  Lalu supporters protested at Zoran Chhapra, Islampur and Kalyani Chowk in Muzaffarpur district.
  
  In Patna, RJD men took put a protest march from the party headquarters at Beerchand Patel Path to Income Tax roundabout and burned Nitish’s effigy. However, they failed to create any ruckus or block traffic movement as police quickly dispersed them. Police were kept on extra alert in the state capital looking at the changing political scenario and apprehending violence.
