Nagpur: The education department has come in for heavy criticism from MLC   who alleged that officials there are ‘conspiring’ against teachers. Speaking at a media interaction in city in the background of upcoming teacher constituency elections, Patil said the state government has virtually ensured paralysis of school education system. 

 Patil said, “The government now wants to produce cheap and less-educated labour for corporates due to which they are toying with the schooling system. Free education under RTE Act is only till Std VIII and then a plethora of skill development programmes should be undertaken. This way you get a skilled labour who has basic education but not the intellect to think about his rights.” He also alleged that a hiring freeze has been put in place to accentuate the problem. “The government has stopped hiring teachers even though posts are lying vacant in rural areas. They are purposely classifying teachers as ‘excess’ by manipulating numbers and fooling the entire teaching community. Education minister Vinod Tawde is looking at the education department with a financial lens whereas he should be surveying it with an academic filter,” said Patil.
 
 In the city to campaign for his   candidate Rajendra Zade, the MLC from Palghar raised the decibel against his opponents. “We are fighting both   and   candidates because none of the major parties have cared about teachers. There have been multiple reports about teachers being forced to do non-academic jobs and ill-treated because of Tawde’s policies. Teachers have been insulted, degraded and taken for granted by ‘selfie Tawde’ and now it’s time to face the electoral music,” said Patil. The term ‘selfie Tawde’ was coined by Patil after the government’s recent decision to ask teachers to take selfie with students as part of an attendance system.
 
 Patil said BJP’s candidate for the polls, Nago Ganar, had failed to address concerns of teachers in his entire tenure. “Teachers have faced so many problems in the last couple of years but what has Ganar done? Teachers have seen through the facade now and I believe they are looking for real change,” said Patil. Though the public face for Patil’s organization is Shikshak Bharati, it’s political front is called Lok Bharati. Currently Patil is the only MLC from his party and for the February 3 polls has fielded two more. “Ashok Belsare from Konkan and Zade from Nagpur will carry the baton for us, he added.
 
