CHANDIGARH:   approved a fee hike of 12.5% for different courses in its teaching departments and regional centres from the 2017-18 session amid ruckus in its meeting on Sunday. The   has been approved in principle with the condition that a separate budget will be allocated for giving scholarship and   of economically weaker sections (EWS) of the society.

 The increased fee will apply to new entrants. PU vice-chancellor professor   said the university will ensure that no student is denied admission because of his/her poor economic condition.
 
 However, as soon as the agenda item of the fee hike came for discussion, some senators put forward the argument that instead of increasing fee, PU should look for other means to generate revenue. While some senators poured in suggestions to meet the deficit, others outrightly opposed the move, saying the burden should not be borne by students alone, creating ruckus in the house and making the vice-chancellor adjourn the meeting for 10 minutes.
 
 Senator Harjot Singh said he has written to PU that he would never take any money from the university given as honorarium for a number of additional duties that the teachers of the college have to do.
 
 Giving suggestions to generate revenue from other sources, a senator said, “Since a major chunk of students from Punjab pursue BCom, the university should start M.Com correspondence. This will contribute to the income of the university. Deficit cannot be met only by increasing fee,” said a senator.
 
 It was also suggested in the meeting that individual faculty members will look at EWS cases so that students are given scholarships and their education is not hampered. “We have hiked fee substantially in the courses where the placements are good. We have also reduced the fee in some courses and the whole exercise was undertaken by keeping the student council members in the loop,” said dean university instructions (DUI) professor Dinesh Gupta, adding the university has made income certificates a part of the admission form.
 
 Senator Rajesh Gill said not much work had been done to evaluate how the expenditure could have been decreased. “The university has spent Rs 46 lakh on the renovation of the VC room and the VC committee room. These renovations could have been postponed,” said Gill.
 
 Senator Shelly Walia said paper setting and paper checking is a part of a university teachers’ job and no additional amount should be given to a teacher for that. Also, he said that no money should be given to faculty members for being a part of the committee formed.
 
