INDORE: In one of its kind judgment, the children’s court in Jhabua tried two minors as adults and convicted them to life imprisonment for committing murder on February 28. The two minors have now challenged the order before the Indore bench of high court and their appeal has been admitted. 

 The matter dates back to December 5, 2016 when two 16-year old Bablu and   attacked Radhu, 14, with a knife in broad daylight and inflicted eight wounds on the victim over a fight regarding money. Radhu, a student of Class IX, was returning from school when the incident took place. He lived in Jhabua in a rented room. 
 
 Radhu died within few hours of the incident at the government hospital in Jhabua and told his brother Kekadia about his attackers before he died. The two accused were arrested the next day and weapons were seized from them. 
 
 When the matter was placed before the  , a social investigation report was submitted by the probation officer stating that both the convicts were addicted to drugs and had a history of such criminal offences.
 
 Based on this, the matter was handed over to the children’s court in Jhabua on January 4, 2017, and the judgment was pronounced on February 28. 
 
 However, the appeal was moved on behalf of the two children Bablu and Sontiya by advocate   on March 15, in which it was alleged that the Children’s court had ignored many important provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, on grounds of which the judgment deserved to be set aside. 
 
 “The judgment was passed by the learned children’s court without providing a proper care plan for the convicts, without following the procedure for their care till they attain the age of 21 and without fully appreciating the social investigation report while deciding the mental capacity of the children to commit the offence,” advocate Ashish Choubey has stated in the appeal. 
 
 The petition also points out that the two children did not have any legal representation before the Juvenile Justice Board and they were only assigned an advocate through legal aid when their case was referred to the children’s court.
 
 The petition has been filed before the bench of   and Justice   who admitted the appeal and called the case diary and records of the case from the children’s court in Jhabua. 
 
 
