HUBBALLI: The   ( ) has shifted its focus on improving the condition of public and community toilets which are in bad condition since the past few months. 

 The decision comes after HDMC commissioner   inspected toilets with a team of officers on Monday.
 
 He ordered the officers concerned to renovate toilets and conduct awareness programmes on the ill effects of  . There is much hue and cry in the twin cities over the bad maintenance of many public toilets. Some of the toilets stink due to improper water facilities.
 
  The absence of good toilets is forcing people to use public places for urinating. Bowing to pressure from the public, the HDMC is taking measures to repair and renovate public toilets in some areas of the twin cities.
 
 Hiremath said that the HDMC has been receiving complaints pertaining to the poor condition of public and community toilets. “In this regard, we paid visits to the toilets to check their conditions,” he said.
 
 Many toilets are in bad shape and officials are working hard to improve their conditions. “The officers are all involved in making Swachh Bharat Abhiyan a success,” he added.
 
 Girish Talwar, an environment engineer with the HDMC, said there that are 70 commercial toilets (pay and use) and 90 community toilets in Hubballi-Dharwad. Of them, some have stopped working due to poor response. The slum board built 50 of the 90 community toilets. 
 
 The works to improve the condition of public toilets include fitting of tiles, applying whitewash to the walls, providing proper water facility and lighting. “Already, the work on improving the conditions of toilets is on. Soon, all the public and community toilets will return to good condition,” said Talwar.
 
 Salman Sharief, a street vendor in Shah Bazar, said that the HDMC has provided lighting at a   in Gavali Galli in Durgad Bail, making the facilities fit for use in the night as well. Mahendra Kumar, a bank employee, said there is a dire need for public toilets. “There are some toilets, but they lack maintenance. The toilet at Maratha Galli Road is crying for attention since many years. The civic authorities should initiate development of toilets which are in the market and other areas,” he added.
 
 
