MUMBAI: At a time when the country is abuzz with debates on foetal viability and abortion limits, a baby born in the 22nd week of gestation—which is just two weeks over the legal abortion deadline in India—has fought all odds to survive. Nirvaan, born to a Bandra couple, is all set to go home on a healthy note after spending four-and-a-half-months in the neonatal ICU of  , Santacruz.

 Touted as the “youngest” to survive in the country by the hospital, the baby boy who weighed 610gm at birth now weighs 3.72kg. A series of heart and brain scans, bone checks and hearing assessments has shown that Nirvaan’s premature birth and survival outside of his mother’s womb has not caused any neurological or physical deficits. Dr   of Surya Hospital said his survival brings hope for other periviable babies, or infants born between 22 and 24 weeks at the limit of viability, who not only have a chance but also the right to survive.
 
 The journey for the parents was no less daunting. The 34-year-old biomedical engineer was thrilled about her first pregnancy till one morning in May when she developed excruciating pain in her lower back and limbs. Her husband said they were “signs of proper labour pain”. On realizing the baby may be on its way, the couple came to Surya since it had an NICU facility. She had a normal delivery within a short time of getting admitted to the hospital.
 
 “There was literally no time to prepare as everything happened so fast. We had our initial moments of disappointment that perhaps all parents go through after a premature delivery, but things changed as Nirvaan fought on week after week,” said the mother, who did not wish to be identified. The 35-year-old father said all his apprehensions about fighting for a baby, which was extremely premature and didn’t even have well-defined bodily features, were put to rest once he saw the tiny life in the NICU warmer. “That was the moment we decided to try everything to help the baby live,” he said.
 
 Doctors at Surya too had their fingers crossed till he came out of the ventilator after six weeks. “When it comes to 22-week gestation premature infants, 40-50% of them are still-born the world over. Among those who are born alive, less than 5% continue to survive,” said neo-natologist Dr  .
 
 The hospital, which has seen many 23 and 24-weekers go home over the years, termed this case as a “miracle”. “Nirvaan was born with immature lungs and required ventilatory support right from the labour room. He even survived life-threatening conditions, such as pneumothorax, a condition where there is air accumulation around the lungs. He also had minor bleeds in the brain due to its underdevelopment. He underwent a surgery for hernia and an intervention for retinopathy caused by prematurity,” said Dr Hari Balasubramanian, another neonatal expert from the hospital. The baby started taking oral feeds and breast-feeding only after three months of age. The doctor said he would be followed up till one-and-a-half to two years for any developmental deficiencies.
 
 After staying apart for four months, the mother said they have started bonding. “Nirvaan means ‘ultimate bliss’ and that’s what we feel today as parents,” said the mother. The father said, “Everyone who has resources should try to give their preterm babies a shot at life”. It has been learnt that the total treatment cost was between Rs 15-20 lakh. 
 
