KOCHI: With just a day left for the CBSE Class X  , scheduled on Monday, teachers and principals want students to make most of the remaining time by solving papers against the clock and revising portions. 

 Mathematics examinations in the past two years were considered difficult as they contained several questions with high difficulty levels that required a significant amount of time to solve. 
 
  principal   said that they have advised all the students to try and solve as many papers as possible against the clock, on the last day.
 
 "Rarely, there are questions that come out of syllabus. Marks for these questions will be granted if these questions are attempted. When students try solving a paper against the clock they can identify which question to dwell on and which question to avoid. This knowledge has proven to be an important asset for students in the past two years," said Antony. 
 
 He said that they have not been notified about a change in the question paper model, therefore, students need not worry about it. 
 
 Bhavan's  's principal and former mathematics teacher Usha K said that students must make it a point to thoroughly revise the mathematical formulas, so that don't have to spend time recollecting them during the exam.
 
 "Every year the teachers mark important questions. Students must go through these questions on the last day, as similar ones are likely to appear in the examination," said Usha K
 
 She said students must not develop anxiety over new doubts and must feel free to call their teacher and clear them.
 
 A Vijaykumar, professor and head of department of Mathematics at Cusat, said the students must try and avoid learning new portions on the day before and must try to revise the portions that they have already covered. 
 
 "There were a lot of concerns last year regarding the CBSE mathematics examination for the tenth grade. We have information that this year the paper will set in such a manner that an average student will be able to score at least fifty per cent marks," said a principal. 
 
