JAIPUR: Congress state president   on Thursday accused the BJP government of deliberately stalling development of   in past four years.   said people of the state were now waiting to defeat BJP in the upcoming by-elections.

 By-elections for Ajmer and Alwar Lok Sabha seats and the   seat have been forced due to demise of BJP leaders Sanwar Lal Jat, Mahant Chand Nath and Kirti Kumari, respectively, who represented these seats.
 
 On his way to Rajsamand district where he unveiled statue of martyr Nimb Singh at village Rajwa on Thursday, Pilot told reporters, “For four years the BJP deliberately halted Ajmer’s development but now its ministers are making a beeline to the district. People want to ask these ministers where they were missing until now.”
 
 He added, “Forget getting new development projects for Ajmer, even the projects that we initiated were not completed by the BJP despite being in power at the Centre and in the state. People will now give their verdict on the four years under the present government and the previous five years of development under the Congress.”
 
 Pilot said people will ensure victory of Congress from Ajmer, Alwar and Mandalgarh seats as they were eager to reply to BJP’s “false promises”.
 
 On being asked if he would contest from the Ajmer Lok Sabha, Pilot replied, “Who will contest from which constituency will be decided by the AICC,   and Sonia Gandhi but it is now sure that BJP has been derailed in Rajasthan. I have had the honour of representing Ajmer Lok Sabha before. If the party leadership decides, who will refuse the honour (of contesting from Ajmer)?”
 
 The Congress state president said by-elections will be contested on development issues. “We brought universities and airport, made Ajmer a slum-free city, provided internet connections in every village. Voters will evaluate our works and the present government’s works and give their verdict. People may get swayed once but they cannot forget the development works done and will ultimately compare performances.”
 
 
