CHENNAI: Railway officials across the country have a lot more to worry than complaints of   lodged by passengers. The  , in a circular sent out last month, came down hard on the   on trains, including premium services like  , and directed the officials concerned to take action.

 The letter from the board directed the officials concerned to ensure that a system of   was introduced in coaching depots, hinting that cleanliness of coaches was directly linked to employee discipline.
 
 “There have been several complaints on account of improper hygiene, cleanliness, condition of toilets and fittings and condition of bedrolls. Railways must immediately take corrective action to improve the condition,“ said the letter, written by Ravindra Gupta, member (rolling stock), Railway Board.
 
 The letter, official sources said, came about after feed back received via social media forums, where passengers regularly post their train-related greivances.
 
 Gupta has listed out an eight-point charter to zonal railways to bring about a 'perceptible improvement' and demanded a report on the same.
 
 Trains like Rajdhani, Shatabdi and Duronto should be accorded the highest priority and surprise inspections should be carried out by no less than the Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME), the head of the mechanical department in every zone, the letter stated.Checks on other trains should be carried out by officers and contracts like those for mechanised coach cleaning, on-board housekeeping and pest and rodent control should be monitored strictly , it added.
 
 CCTV cameras installed in coaching depots should be mo nitored regularly to ensure the quality of work. The pit lines, which are meant for servicing trains, should be properly illuminated to ensure that the staff are provided a good working environment.
 
 Cleaning material and equipment should be made available at all times and automatic dosing plants for proper dilution and supply of cleaning compounds should be ensured by the zonal railways, the letter directed.
 
 The instructions are particularly pertinent for Southern Railway that has been ranked only average in terms of cleanliness. Chennai Central Railway Station, a heritage stucture and one of the showpices in the zone, continues to be plagued by a persistent rodent issue which has contributed to the rating, an official survey of the railways last year showed.
 
