BENGALURU: In what could be a dismal sign of the coming times,   are not signing up to vote. New voters in the age group of 18-19 years should ideally form 3-3.5% of the total voter population, as per the  , but within   (BBMP) limits, the data is an abysmal 0.32%.

 In real numbers, it means when the total voters' population in 2017 in BBMP is 84,97,192, the number of new voters in the 18-19 age group is only 27,500, as of June 2017.Alarmed by this figure, BBMP has started enrolling youngsters aged 18-19 by reaching out to them in colleges. For the first time ever, BBMP has taken   measures to weed out names of the dead from the voters' list. The Palike made a count of dead voters from 2015 to June 2017, which boils down to 65,632 dead voters, whose names still appear on the list. That's despite the relatives applying for death certificates of these persons, and the BBMP issuing the same.
 
 The BBMP will be issuing notices to the dead person's address to alert relatives on deletion of the person's name from the voters' list. Revenue officers are working on this.
 
 “We give an opportunity of  . The family has to reply within a week, failing which BBMP revenue officials will conduct a mahajar (spot inspection) to confirm the death of the person, soon after which the name of the deceased is removed from the voters' list. This is to clean up the list, which is crucial for any election,“ explained BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad.
 
 “Ideally, after the death of a person, the family of the deceased has to give an application to the Palike to delete the person's name from the voters' list, with a copy of the death certificate. But that has not been done by the public in a majority of the cases because of which the dead still exist on the voters' list,“ said BBMP officials.
 
 
 
 
 Based on media reports of the BBMP allegedly issuing voter ID cards to illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, the Palike has initiated a probe to weed out such names from the list.“We've learnt that there are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh living in Mahadevapura near Bellandur. Until the inquiry is complete, we cannot arrive at the number of such persons,“ Prasad said.
 
