CHENNAI: Health and family welfare minister   issued a statement late Sunday, rejecting all allegations relating to former chief minister  's death, and questioning rebel leader O Panneerselvam's motives. This is the first official response from the government to allegations by the former chief minister, who has sought a probe into Jayalalithaa's death. Panneerselvam has announced a hunger strike on March 8 and has set a 5pm deadline on that day for the state and Centre to order a probe. The minister said, “On Amma's health and subsequent developments culminating in her unfortunate demise, Panneerselvam and his group have been making plethora of statements. In the overall interest of AIADMK and fair name of our dear and departed leader, I reject all his allegations in toto.“ In an attempt to take the sting out of the hunger strike threatened by former chief minister and rebel leader   on March 8 to seek a probe into former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's death, the   sought to discredit the rebel leader saying he was managing his political survival by playing on the issue of her death.

 In a three-page statement, health minister C Vijayabaskar said the OPS group had raised many questions regarding the “modus operandi“ of the treatment given to Jayalalithaa. Panneerselvam was “well aware“ that apart from doctors at Apollo hospital, the state government and Apollo administration invited “medical luminaries“, 15 specialists, to treat the late leader.
 
 Vijayabaskar said experts from AIIMS Delhi, Christian Medical College Vellore, Dr Stuart Russell of John Hopkins Hospital, New York, USA (through video conference), Dr Ravi Mehta from Bangalore Apollo, Dr Shamin Sharma, a team led by Narendra Reddy from Hyderabad, a team led by Dwivedi from Tata Memorial Hospital from Mumbai, were consulted and they also visited Jayalalithaa in hospital.
 
 Further, he said, the state government, through a G.O.(dated 30.9.2016) appointed a team of five specialist doctors to monitor the medical treatment given to her.
 
 Vijayabaskar said every morning at 11am, “an elaborate briefing about Jayalalithaa's health, and the kind of treatment she was receiving was given by the doctors“ which Panneerselvam, the chief secretary, the health secretary and other government officials “were well aware of“.
 
 He said when governors, chief ministers of neighbouring states, central ministers Arun Jaitley, Venkiah Naidu, BJP leader Amit Shah, Rahul Gandhi and other VIPs came to   to enquire about Jayalalithaa's health, “it was Panneerselvam who welcomed them.“
 
 The minister said that Panneerselvam “also accompanied the Apollo Hospitals medical team led by its chief Dr Pratap Reddy“ when the team explained the treatment given to Jayalalithaa.
 
 During the time, Panneerselvam did not raise even a single doubt or any reservations about the treatment, he said.The minister alleged that Panneerselvam is “managing his political survival by playing on the demise of Hon'ble Amma.“ This, he added, “is what hurts me a great deal“.
 
