BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Central Region Power Distribution Company (Discom) has given a shock with   that left a person dead and about 250 BPL families in distress in Kolukhedi village on city outskirts.

 Almost all the villagers in this village have received exorbitant  , running in to lakhs of rupees.
 
 A villager, Atmaram Sen, who received a bill of Rs 12,000 on September 20 last year died of heart attack as he was not able to bear the shock, alleged his son, Amit Sen,20.
 
 “After receiving the bill, my father was shocked and worried how to repay it. The very next day he had rushed to the office of the discom and had an argument with the staff over the bill. When he returned home, he was very tense and by evening had a heart attack. Error on the part of some discom officials have orphaned me. I have two sisters and a small brother, do not know what to do for survival,” Amit Sen alleged.
 
 Seventy-year-old Govardhan Lal, who makes a living by selling toffees and earns Rs 20 to Rs 50 per day, and has a small television, two bulbs and a fan in his house has been slapped with a bill of Rs 48,344.
 
 “How to get Rs 50,000?, my earnings are inadequate to get two square meals for my family, I don’t know how to deal with it,” Govardhan told TOI.
 
 “Tehsildar visited us twice with the power bill for recovery and threatened to attach my house. Sometimes, I feel like committing suicide,” he said.
 
 Another villager, Kishori Prajapati, 70, who works as security guard and lives with his wife, has been slapped with a power bill of Rs 1 lakh. “This is not possible even if my meter reading is wrong, and even if the bills received so far in 3 years are added up,” worried Prajapati said.
 
 Things were normal in this village where power supply lines were laid some three years ago. Till September last year none of the villagers had any outstanding on the discom and everyone paid bills on time. “It was in September last year that every villager was slapped with exorbitant bills.
 
 Villager Nadeem Khan who works as a labourer received an electricity bill of Rs 2.5 lakh in the same month,” former sarpanch of the village Bundu Khan told TOI.
 
 Talking to TOI, Nadeem said, “Demonetisation has already hit us and we are not getting work, now this power bill. We are worried about how to feed family daily”.
 
 TOI has copies of the power bills received by the villagers. Since then the villagers have so far made several, rounds of the discom offices but to no avail.
 
 When TOI contacted the local junior engineer posted at the Khajuri Sadak, power sub-station, Ashish Sharma said, “It is not exorbitant bill, but it has been detected that lineman Mukesh who was responsible for reading meter used to take wrong readings and now when it has been detected it is being rectified and correct bills are raised along with outstandings.”
 
 When TOI, contacted managing director of the Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company, Vivek Porwal, he was evasive. “I will have to get the matter enquired for saying anything over the issue,” Porwal told TOI.
 
 
