It was 15 minutes to midnight on  , and I was driving back home from work. Any longing I might have felt to be out in the city, celebrating, had already dissipated into the noise of screeching motorcycles, and 
  . I couldn’t wait to get home. We (the husband and I) were among, what looked like, hundreds of other commuters stuck in a jam and at the mercy of young men, packed three at a time, on motorcycles, screaming and whistling as they passed us by.

 There were a few policemen on the pavement who chose to ignore the ruckus and the violations (three on each bike, no helmets, reckless driving) while hassled-looking commuters honked their way forward through the chaos.
 
 Every year on New Year’s Eve,   becomes that place where women are advised to stay away from. Looking out of my car window that night, it was easy to see why. Packs of jeering men, many of them drunk and reckless, hardly make for  . Even then, we spotted young women in party clothes, in twos and threes, heading towards  
 
 The next morning I came to work and heard about 
  . A friend pointed out how stupid the women were to be in a place like that, wearing short dresses and stilettos — the clear-headed conclusion of a survivalist.
 
 It also occurred to me, however, that I lived in a city where the safety of a woman depended on how ‘un-stupid’ she was. Most of us who had tucked away our desire for outdoor fun into the safety of a domestic gathering, somehow made it through the night, unmolested. A few of us, free-spirited and untamable (a bit like the bike-borne men I saw that night) — or the ‘stupid’ girls — pushed the envelope and paid for it.
 
 We have a hard time empathising with those girls. It doesn’t occur to us that they are the litmus test of the city we live in.
 
 The police department claimed that there were at least 1,500 security personnel in and around MG Road and Brigade Road on Saturday night. How shameful is it then that women were
  ?
 
 There will be two major consequences of this event: 1) Next time, there will be even fewer women celebrating. 2) All those men who got away will be stronger and more forceful next time.
 
 On New Year’s Day, when Mirror got in touch with the cops to ask about the verbal complaints of molestation, they said not a single formal complaint had been lodged on January 1. So, all was well? On paper, yes. But the women who got mobbed that night were too busy fleeing the molesters to call the police helpline; too traumatised, perhaps, to head to the police station and file a formal complaint. It was also unlikely that they would remember the faces. (Our photojournalist said he saw a girl being manhandled by about 20 men.) And without all that, those men most certainly won’t be arrested.
 
 The truth in there is: for every complaint of harassment that is filed, there are hundreds (if not thousands) that aren’t. Unless the police can work on the ground-level and inspire confidence in the vulnerable, and fear in the exploiter, law and order stays only on paper.
 
 The Bengaluru I’ve loved is full of warm, kind people. It’s the city where the elderly woman at the grocery store wants to know if ‘Oota aitha?’ It’s the city where the day’s poor show at appraisals is forgotten over pitchers of beers. Being a woman had never seemed to be a problem. Until now, of course.
 
