LUCKNOW:   Adityanath   announced on the floor of the House that the state government would soon come up with a law to tighten the noose around those who  . The CM was intervening on the Budget debate after finance minister Rajesh Agrawal gave his reply on Tuesday. 

 Leaving no stone unturned to put the Opposition, mainly Samajwadi Party, in the dock, Yogi said the accused in the Azamgarh hooch tragedy that claimed 21 lives was identified as Mulayam Yadav. 
 
 “Is Mulayam Yadav not an SP member? He was being shielded by SP leaders,” the CM said, adding that Yadav was involved in the death of 60 people in an earlier hooch tragedy and shielded by SP leaders even then. 
 
 “If I decide to speak up, many people would get exposed. Let there be political courtesies,” the CM said, adding that under a new law, no one would be spared for patronising  . 
 
 Maintain a high pitch throughout his speech, Yogi said: “We don’t just plan, we face (problems).” 
 
 Continuing in the same vein, the CM said that sugarcane sector was passing through its worst phase but the BJP government had decided to set up a new sugar industry in Gorakhpur’s Pipraich and Basti and even ethanol would be produced from the crushed sugarcane in a second-generation plant, the CM announced.
 
 The CM said UP would also have at least four third-generation plants in east UP, Bundelkhand, central UP and west UP. These would produce green diesel and green fuel. Each would cost Rs 1,200 crore, he added. 
 
 While there was no water scarcity in Bundelkhand this time, the CM said, during SP’s regime, the Centre was forced to send a water train, he added. 
 
 Using harsh words for the Opposition, the CM said that the government was not afraid of any opposition as that was their job. 
 
 “After all, they don’t have much work to do. Empty mind is a devil’s workshop,” he said. 
 
 Referring to the anti-Romeo squad, Yogi gestured towards SP members and said, “You all might not have liked the concept.”
 
 Bringing up the issue of Ramleela in Ayodhya, the CM said that when he went to Ayodhya, seers and saints told him about its discontinuation. 
 
 “I told them why do you expect them to restart Ramleela when they believe in Ravan-leela,” he said adding there was cultural degeneration in the past 15 years as nothing was done to develop places like Ayodhya, Mathura, Vrindavan and Varanasi.
 
 The CM also hit out at BSP government, saying despite them talking of Lord Buddha, nothing was done to develop or protect Buddhist sites. 
 
 The CM said the BJP government’s Budget was not to appease any caste or community but to cater to interest of everyone. 
 
 “If we are giving electricity to Deva Sharif (in Barabanki), electricity would be provided to Mahadeva temple also. If electricity will be provided to Suresh Khanna’s Shahjahanpur, it would also be provided to Rampur,” the CM said. 
 
 The CM also hit out at the SP government for “not coordinating with the Centre for development schemes.”
 
 Hailing the Budget as one for women, poor, youth, children and everyone, the CM said the government was able to put a check on irrelevant expenses and arrange for crores for farmers’ debt redemption and salary arrears for state government employees. 
 
 Since SP had nothing to do with cleanliness, nothing was done under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the CM said, adding the result was that of the 100 dirtiest cities, 52 were from UP. 
 
 “You didn’t even spare the Ganga. Villages on the banks of Ganga were not made open defecation-free. We made 1,627 villages by Ganga ODF in just four months.” 
 
 
