PANAJI:   alias Misha, who was caught guiding Russian tourists at   without licence, was fined a penalty of 5,000 by the deputy director of tourism  .

 Misha was detained on February 22 for acting as a tourist guide, an illegal act on his part as he did not have either due authorization or licence , an act punishable under Section 26 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Registration of Tourism and Trade Act, 1982, Kale stated in his order.
 
 Misha was detained with the help of locals in Collem, who had filed multiple complaints against foreign tourists acting as guides illegally in Collem. During inquiry it was found that Misha accompanied Russian tourists from Candolim by bus number GA-03/N-2891 as a guide.
 
 When produced before Collem police station PSI Praful P Giri, Misha informed that he was working on a business visa for Mougali Tours and Travels Pvt Ltd in Goa and for individual entertainment Shatalova M S Travel agency ‘Chameleon’ in Saint Petersburg.
 
 However, Kale’s inquiry revealed that on Wednesday Misha had accompanied the Russian tourists to Dudhsagar waterfalls in John's Boat Tours and not Mougali Tours and Travels. In his order, Kale stated that Misha submitted his bank statement, but not the clientele list sent by the travel agency to Goa, which he was requested to produce along with the bank statement.
 
 For more than a year now, repeated complaints have been filed along with photographic and video evidence against foreign nationals involved in illegal activities such as acting as tourist guide and translator without valid work visa, in Collem. The complaints were sent to the police inspector, Collem police station, director general of police, Panaji, director of tourism, president of the travel and tourism association of Goa, and president tourist guides federation of India, Goa chapter.
 
 Proprietor of Passive Active Tourism Joseph Barreto in his latest complaint, last month, stated that foreigners are permitted to work in India on condition that they hold employment/work visas.
 
 “A business visa entitles a foreigner to do business provided they have a business partner in India and pay the required government taxes. Business visa does not permit a foreigner to undertake outdoor jobs such as working as guides, escorts, transfer representatives, translator or interpreter,” he said in his complaint. Last year locals provided photographic and video evidence of 40 foreigners acting as guides and translators without employment or work visas in Collem, between October and November 2016. They opine that there are many more such foreigners working illegally in the state. 
 
