LUCKNOW: As the counting for   gets over on July 20, the countdown to elect five   as   will begin. 

 Approximately 60 days would be left before the ministers, including  , are elected to the Assembly or council in a   
 
 Before that, Yogi and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya would have to resign from the Lok Sabha. 
 
 It was the BJP's decision to have the two continue as Lok Sabha MPs keeping in mind the presidential elections. With that out of the way, Yogi and Maurya are expected to put in their papers in a few days, sources in the BJP told TOI. 
 
 Others who would have to be accommodated in either of the two Houses include the other deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, transport minister Swatantra Deo Singh and minister of state for minority affairs Mohsin Raza. 
 
 When Yogi relinquishes the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat, it would be the first time in 28 years that the constituency would not have the Gorakhnath temple head priest as its member. Before Yogi, the seat was with his guru Mahant Avaidyanath for three terms. 
 
 It is believed that whoever leaves his Vidhan Sabha seat for Yogi will become the potential Lok Sabha candidate. Sources said if Yogi decides to contest from Campierganj, the seat represented by former minister Fateh Bahadur Singh, Singh's wife Sadhna might contest Lok Sabha elections from Gorakhpur and Singh himself might be sent to the upper House in UP later. 
 
 Yogi's second choice could be Shahjanwa seat, represented by Sheetal Pandey, Yogi's Lok Sabha representative for a long time. Another choice could be Gorakhpur Rural, represented by Vipin Singh, a close confidante of the CM. 
 
 A section of BJP also believes that Gorakhpur City seat cannot be ruled out. Though that looks far-fetched as replacing four-time MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agrawal could mean Agarwal would be fielded as Lok Sabha candidate. 
 
 Maurya, meanwhile, is likely to contest from Sarathu in Allahabad, the seat he represented as MLA for two years. However, a surprise could be in store. 
 
 Among the remaining leaders, Sharma could be made an MLC. If he wishes to contest elections, he would opt for a seat in Lucknow. However, with six of nine MLAs there becoming ministers, it is very unlikely that Sharma would do so. 
 
 One can only wait till the strategist finds a solution.
 
 
