A bunch of overqualified airport workers with basic jobs have been assigned functions they are ideally suited for, thanks to a fantastic initiative.  A master’s in zoology, Suman Paul used to sweep floors at the airport. A polytechnic engineer, Subha Sannyashi’s job was to mow grass off the runway. An MBA in human resources, Nita Das Kundu used to spend her day passing on telephone calls to one extension to the other. Now, all three — and at least five others like them — handle the Airport Operation Control Centre (AOCC), one of the most prestigious and responsible wings at the Kolkata airport, maintaining direct liaison with pilots, air traffic control, airlines and the airport. “We identified that some of the men who were working as Group D staff and other tasks that required lower intellect were actually far more qualified to handle better responsibilities. We identified some of the talents over a period of time and have inducted them in the AOCC department,” said Atul Dikshit, the Kolkata airport director. The recipients of the new jobs are even happier that although they were once forced to take up jobs that required much less qualifications, they can now hold their heads high. “I could not tell my relatives and friends that I used to work as a sweeper. I had taken up the job just because of the security. But I was very unhappy. Then, my seniors who knew my qualifications realized my potential and now I work as a resource allocator, maintaining liaison between airlines, checking any obstruction or flight delay and monitoring the posts on the electronic display bulletins informing about the arrival/departure of flights,” said Paul, 32, who had joined work as a sweeper in 2009. For Sannyashi, it was even tougher as his father, a senior official with Air India, was posted at the same airport. “We avoided conversation at the airport. He said he was not ashamed of the job I used to do, but I could feel he felt a bit awkward introducing people to me while I moved around with grass clippers and mops. However, two years ago, the then deputy director of the airport had allocated him a task of preparing the NOTAM bulletin in the absence of the employee whose task it was. I fared pretty well, and the official was impressed. Since then, he started to give me proper official jobs now and then, and now I am at AOCC and my task now includes assigning the conveyor belts for particular airlines, checking the display boards, taking stock of the trolleys and to ensure they are taken back to the trolley bay at regular intervals,” said Sannyashi, sporting a blazer and formal shirt and trousers. Employees like Nita Das Kundu, Mousumi Pal and Sandipan Chakraborty were all working at the airport’s telephone exchange, and their primary task included transferring calls from one department to the other. But after the department was dismantled, the trio was handpicked based on their qualifications and were put into AOCC in 2014. Now, Chakraborty is in charge of assigning the right aerobridge to flights and is also the one overseeing the maintenance and functioning of the aerobridges. Das Kundu and Pal maintains liaises with the airport apron and control room and whenever there is VIP movement, they are in charge of the facilitation. “This is the most exciting part of my career. I have spent 15 years sitting with telephones. I am thankful that I have been given this opportunity,” said Mousumi. A senior official at the airport said all these employees are eligible for departmental exams and, depending on their scores, could hold even higher designations. “I am eligible to move up the ladder to the rank of assistant airport manager. I am chasing that dream,” Nita said. A senior airport official said all departmental heads have been asked to keep tabs on the performance and qualification of the employees and that all extraordinary performers from any department should be properly treasured and utilized. “We are constantly on the lookout for talent within the organization. There are several qualified men and women who were forced to take up jobs that required far less qualification only because they had not got proper opportunities. Those who are willing and qualified, we are ready to reassign in the right departments,” the official said.