PUNE: An FIR was filed against the watchman of   in Kadnagar, Undri on Tuesday for   to death a puppy with a cane.

 Eyewitness Rupali Rewatkar who lives near the society said the guard also whacked her leg with the stick, abused and threatened her when she tried to stop him. 
 
 The FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, identified the accused as 30-year-old Kumar Ashok Kumbhar. PSI Ganesh Kulal of Kondhwa police station said, “I conducted the panchnama of the spot and an FIR has been filed. The watchman of the society will be arrested under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and sections 324, 504, 506 of the   (IPC) for threatening and assaulting the complainant.”
 
 Section 324 of IPC pertains to voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means, where as 504, refers to intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace.
 
 A puppy was thrown off the eighth floor of a building in Kondhwa recently.
 
 Rewatkar, who filed the FIR, said, “I was standing in my balcony when I heard the cries of a puppy howling piteously. I ran to the society close by where the security guard was ruthlessly caning a three-month old puppy while he continued to drag it out of the society’s gate clasping its hind legs. When I sought an explanation, the watchman replied with a flurry of abuses, threatened me and struck my leg with his stick.”
 
 After attacking her, the guard began hitting the puppy again. It died soon after and Rewatkar contacted the Undri police chowkey along with Amit Shah, director of Prani Seva Sanstha in Ambegaon.
 
 Shah told TOI that police conducted a panchnama of the spot. “Though the post-mortem report of the puppy is yet to come, we had our vet examine the body of the puppy. The vet concluded that the puppy had died an unnatural death,” Shah said.
 
 He added that the watchman had also abused and assaulted Rewatkar when she tried to stop him. “The objective in pursuing this case is that such acts of cruelty towards animals should not be repeated,” he added.
 
 Rewatkar incurred a contusion on her knee, a medical report from Sassoon General Hospital said.
 
