Chandigarh: Raising concern over the long-dragging departmental inquires instituted against delinquent government officials of her department, Punjab public works department (PWD) minister Razia Sultana has set a deadline of completing such probes within three months.

 There are 39 gazetted officers of the rank of executive engineers (XENs), sub-divisional officers (SDOs) and senior engineers (SEs), who have been charge sheeted and are facing regular inquiries. Investigations against most of these officials were ordered during the previous SAD-BJP government and these are facing departmental enquires for their alleged involvement in corrupt practices and violation of service rules.
 
 The minister has ordered that those officials against whom the departmental inquiries are pending for over two years, inquiries should be concluded by July 31. In case of the rest of the officials facing regular inquiries, the same should be done by September 30 and the inquiry officials concerned should recommend major or minor penalties to be imposed against them based upon the outcome of the probe.
 
 Hussan Lal, PWD (building and roads) secretary, told TOI, “We are reviewing all pending departmental inquiries initiated against delinquent officials. We have also transferred some of the officials.”
 
 The department has also transferred around 25 senior officials from their posts in Patiala, Amritsar and Mohali who have been continuing on the same place for a long time. Also, seven officials, who have been overseeing the quality control departments, have been shifted to field duties. The department is keeping an eye on the conduct of such officials.
 
 Lal said there were several reasons for the delay in completion of departmental inquiries. “In some cases officials had approached the courts and got a stay on proceedings while in others cases inquiry officers were changed for various reasons.” Such inquiries also dragged because of lack of accountability of the inquiry officer for timely completion, filing of late replies by accused officials or by making repeated requests for adjournments during the probe.
 
 As per procedure, a preliminary enquiry is ordered when there is a complaint of misconduct or corruption against a government official. Thereafter, a show cause notice is issued to the official found prima facie responsible. If his reply is not found satisfactory, a chargesheet is issued by the disciplinary authority after which regular enquiry is ordered by appointing an enquiry officer, who examines witnesses and facts. At the final stage, penalty is proposed against the erring official if he is found guilty.
 
 
