An eight-year-old boy who is not getting adequate funds from his deceased father's trust has found support from the  , which has asked the trustee, leading finance firm IL&FS, to put on record the entire amount it is overseeing.

 The court said it cannot allow a situation where young  , from Borivali, felt compelled to fight an   to get the money his father, Rahul Mehta, left him.
 
 "By the next date the entire amount of the trust fund is to be brought to the court. There is no question of a minor going to arbitration against IL&FS, or one of its trustee-companies, a situation which is simply deplorable," Justice Gautam Patel said last week while hearing the case brought by Avi's mother, Vikita Mehta, on his behalf.
 
 Rahul died of cancer in April 2014. While he was battling the disease, he created a trust deed, which was supposed to a pay fixed amount of Rs 30,000 every month for Avi's health, education, maintenance and support. But he has not been getting the full monthly sum, according to Avi's arbitration petition in the court.
 
 Rahul signed the deed with IL&FS in September 2013 and modified it two months later. The agreement made Avi the primary beneficiary of the trust fund; IL&FS the trustee; and the boy's mother and paternal grandparents the secondary beneficiaries.
 
 Rahul appointed his sister's husband, Rajesh Gujjar, as the first protector of the trust, and specified that Vikita and her in-laws, Salita and Rameshchandra, should be given money from the fund for urgent medical requirements. According to Avi and her mother's pet ition, IL&FS paid them only Rs 10,000 till July 2015 before increasing the amount to Rs 15,000 in August 2015. It paid them Rs 20,000 for August, September and October 2016.
 
 The petition alleges that the full amount of Rs 30,000 is not being paid because of Gujjar's instructions. "He [Gujjar] does have the interest of the petitioner at heart and will not discharge his function as protector of the welfare and benefit of the petitioner. The petitioner does not wish that he continues as protector of the trust," it states.
 
 Avi and his mother have sought a status quo on the trust account at Citibank's branch on Dr DN Road in Fort. The account is maintained by IL&FS in consultation with Gujjar.
 
 Advocates Nirman Sharma and SG Gokhale, appearing for Avi and his mother, told the high court that they were not aware of the exact amount lying in the fund.
 
 Justice Patel has expressed an intention to get the fund corpus managed through the high court or through a private trust managed by a member nominated by Vikita.
 
 Advocate Akash Rebello, who appeared for IL&FS, said the monthly payments were reduced after Vikita agreed to do so and signed a document in July 2015. But the court brushed aside the argument. "She may (have) done so under some compulsion, being not only widowed but having no option of otherwise receiving any funds from the respondent IL&FS Trust," the court observed.
 
 In a detailed reply, IL&FS says that it had resigned from the trust in August 2016, which was to be effective in October. It said Gujjar was now automatically the trustee and alleged that the entire issue was the result of a dispute among family members.
 
