CHENNAI: A split  , a resurgent DMK and an emergent Deepa Jayakumar promise to make the upcoming R K Nagar byelection a scrappy affair. But one candidate literally collected scrap from the constituency to fund his dreams of contesting the election.

 From March 13-21, Korattur resident M S Arumugam picked plastic and glass scrap found on the roadside. By selling the scrap to recyclers, Arumugam raised around Rs 2,500. He then pooled in the remaining from his savings and paid the deposit sum of Rs 5,000.
 
 A welder contesting as an independent, Arumugam is representing the interests of the   (LCAA). And the symbol he would use is the ‘bottle’. Does not his status as an office-bearer of an organisation named the   instantly dilute his chances?
 
 “Certain wars are not fought to be won,” said the 49-year-old, but cautioned that it did not mean that he was taking the fight lightly.
 
 On March 22, Arumugam submitted his nomination papers to the returning officer in a unique manner. He walked into the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Tondiarpet zonal office with the mangal sutra (thaali) in his hand before filing his nomination. “This was symbolic of the women who lost their thaali as their husbands lost their lives to alcohol,” he said.
 
 His campaign strategy, unsurprisingly, involves the bottle. “There are around 25 Tasmac shops in RK Nagar. We will begin (campaigning) here,” he said. 
 
 Arumugam is not a newcomer. A school dropout, he had unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls three times. “I contested the Srirangam bypoll in 2015 and got 85 votes. Last year, I lost the polls from Ambattur and also the byelection in Thanjavur where I got around 100 votes,” said Arumugam.
 
 During campaigning, he wants to reach out to tipplers and advise them to take fruits and vegetables as side dish, instead of pickles, when consuming alcohol as it would “protect the liver”.
 
 Despite his uncommon principles, Arumugam is confident that he will find support among women voters. “The state government, though it earns Rs 23,000 crore revenue from the sale of liquor, is the reason for men dying and women becoming widows,” he said.
 
 “I am on this quest to make people understand that LCAA is against liquor. If we can get the liquor consumers of RK Nagar on our side, then I am sure the victory is ours,” he said.
 
 
