BENGALURU: Although he can   now, two years ago, Najeeb, 32, of  , feared he would never regain total control of his legs.   underwent multiple surgeries in his home country, where a few doctors even informed him that they might have to amputate his left leg. However, a group of doctors at a city-based hospital, where he underwent treatment, have ensured that Najeeb can now return home, with his left leg intact. 

 A driver in Yemen, Najeeb met with an accident in Sana' a two years ago, wherein his left leg was crushed. He also sustained fractures on his right leg and right wrist. The multiple injuries had also left some of his nerves severely damaged. However, it was his left leg that had suffered the most - a compound fracture had resulted in extensive damage to the soft tissues, and the bones were exposed. Fearing infection and blood poisoning, the doctors in Yemen suggested an amputation. However, he wanted to seek a second opinion, and with the help of his cousin Mohammed, he came to Bengaluru. 
 
 N ajeeb was treated at   in Kumaraswamy Layout, where he underwent multiple procedures. While the doctors fixed the fractures in his right leg and right wrist after a few procedures, the left leg continued to pose a problem. A team of experts, including orthopaedic surgeons, anaesthetists and plastic surgeons, chalked out a plan to save his leg. Dr Rupendu, who led the team of orthopaedic surgeons, said, "Treating bone infection in such complicated cases is very challenging. The problem is that, the infection does not allow the bone to heal. Before he came to our hospital, Najeeb had undergone six procedures. There was an implant in the bone, which we had to remove before we could proceed with the surgery." 
 
 The operation was performed o n a deformed and shortened leg. Since a few parts of the fractured bone were dead, blood supply had to be restored to it. In a surgery that lasted more than seven hours, surgeons successfully removed the dead bone.An orthopaedist who was involved in treating Najeeb, Dr Srivatsa Subramanya said, "The bone will probably develop completely over the next six months, and Najeeb should be able to walk without any suppot." 
 
  Najeeb is now all set to fly back to Yemen, and can look forward to getting back on his feet. 
 
 
