JAIPUR: A   was raped and left to die in   on Saturday. When she was brought to the hospital, she was unconscious. The doctors will perform surgery to repair perineal tear, she suffered in the terrible incident on Saturday morning.

 The girl belongs to Indore and she was staying in the city for the past 30 days along with his mother and 10-year-old sister. Her mother brought her two daughters to Jaipur after frequent quarrels with her husband. She was leading life on footpath outside Bhairon Nathji temple at Ajmeri Gate.
 
 But, on fateful night of Friday, the seven-year-old girl was abducted by unidentified persons when she along with her elder daughter was not with the younger daughter. She was sleeping when she was abducted, her mother told TOI. The incident of abduction happened at 7pm and the girl was found after 12 hours at Ram Niwas Bagh. Her mother spent whole night searching for her but all her efforts went into vain.
 
  (east) DCP (East) Kunwar Rashtradeep said, “We have registered an FIR against unidentified persons. We are investigating into the matter to arrest those involved in the heinous crime.”
 
 However, police sources said that mother of the girl has named three persons as she was suspecting their involvement in it.
 
 The girl was rushed to the   where the doctors immediately provided her treatment by admitting her into the surgical ICU ward.
 
 “When she was brought to the hospital, she was unconscious and she was bleeding from her private parts. We have done blood transfusion. Since she was dehydrated, we provided her treatment for dehydration. Now, she is conscious,”  , superintendent J K Lon Hospital said.
 
 Dr Gupta said that they are also administering antibiotic medicines. He said that since she suffered injuries in her private parts, they would conduct surgeries on Sunday morning. 
 
 He said that it is the third such case of rape survivors of girls who have not even completed 10 years of life reported in the hospital in past eight days.
 
 “We are quite sensitive for such cases and we have a separate standard operating procedure for treatment of such girls who even do not know what have happened to them. It is a heinous crime,” Dr Gupta said.
 
 He said that a girl had been discharged from the hospital after recovery yesterday now another girl has been brought with same kind of agony and pain.
 
