HYDERABAD: After banning registrations on prohibited land where government has been fighting for ownership in the wake of  , the state government has decided to prohibit land registrations on lake beds and buffer zones of about 3,100 lakes, particularly in Hyderabad Metropolitan Region. The decision was taken as many lakes have been encroached upon by realtors and developers and are being sold to gullible customers by marking plots. According to a recent survey conducted by revenue department, 151 lakes in Ranga Reddy district and 250 lakes in   districts were encroached upon by people and firms. The revenue department said there's no matching between original lake extent and present lake area.

 “The urban development authority has written to district collectors of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy , MedchalMalkajgiri, Medak, Sanga Reddy, Siddipet and YadadriBhongir districts that fall under Hyderabad Metropolitan Region to take steps, prohibiting land registrations on lake beds and buffer zones,“   metropolitan commissioner and chairman of  , T Chiranjeevulu told TOI.
 
 The decision was taken at a Lake Protection Committee meeting held on Wednesday and conveyed to district collectors. Official sources said the ban would be implemented with immediate effect in lakes where land survey has been completed and Full Tank Levels ( ) for lakes fixed.
 
 The state government formed Lake Protection Committee mainly to protect la kes with reports that many lakes have been converted into plots and hundreds of buildings have come up in lake beds. A survey of 3,132 lakes has been taken up in 2013.Survey and fixing of boundaries is being carried out by irrigation, revenue departments, panchayati raj departments.
 
 In Hyderabad, GHMC has been entrusted with the work. After preparation of maps, land records verification, preliminary notifica tions are given to seek objections from people and final notification is issued.
 
 According to HMDA officials, of total 3,132 lakes in metropolitan jurisdiction, survey was completed for 2534 lakes and another 598 lakes survey is yet to be completed. After survey and verification of records, 1316 lakes were notified preliminarily and final notification was given to only 165 lakes. Revenue department, which has been entrusted to verify records of ownership of lands in lake beds and buffer zones, yet to complete verification of 742 lakes of 1316 lakes preliminarily notified. Similarly , irrigation department, which has to fix Full Tank Level, is yet to submit its reports for 977 lakes.
 
 “I have asked officials to complete survey of all remaining 598 lakes by end of December and take steps for issuing preliminary and final notifications," said Chiranjeevulu.
 
