HYDERABAD: A week before Rohith Vemula’s first death anniversary, academicians and activists on Thursday slammed the Telangana and the Central government for their failure in delivering justice to the late Dalit research scholar’s family. They were speaking at an academic seminar organised by UoH students’ union on ‘caste-based atrocities in higher educational institutions’. Rohith died on 17 January 2016. 

 While the seminar was organised to initiate a discussion on caste discrimination in higher educational institutions, students claimed that the administration’s approach was intimidating as they deputed heavy security outside the DST auditorium where the seminar was held. With 10 security guards outside the auditorium and dozens at the entry gate, ‘policing’ was clearly visible on campus. Security staff even stopped mediapersons who tried to attend the seminar. “The university is only curbing voices of dissent by not allowing outsiders and mediapersons from attending seminars which are democratic,” said a student. 
 
 Speaking at the seminar, Prof K Laxminarayana, a faculty member of UoH said the government was attempting to categorise Rohith as a non-Dalit. “It is learnt that in a day or two, the Andhra Pradesh government will declare that Rohith was not a Dalit but someone who belonged to the backward class,” he said.
 
 Highlighting how promises made by politicians and the university were broken, Bezwada Wilson, convenor of Safai Karmachari Andolon, said, “Many people came and promised a lot of things last year but nothing has happened so far. Rohith’s brother, who completed MSc in Geology is now running an auto-rickshaw in his town. His mother Radhika is afraid to send him to any university. The vice-chancellor must feel ashamed to have not protected the rights of Rohith’s family,” said Wilson. 
 
 Sukhdeo Thorat, chairperson of   (ICSSR) and former   chairman, said, “Rohith’s sacrifice has brought out the hidden issue of caste discrimination in higher educational institutional institutions. Nothing substantial has come out even after a year. The struggle by students must not go in vain as it must be converted into policy-making,” opined Thorat. 
 
