About 400 people gathered at   on Sunday, for the  . From Krishnakanth park they marched upto  , holding banners and raising slogans. 
Shouts of “We are gay and that’s okay”; “Gay hue toh kya hua, pyaar hua ekraar hua”; “Ek do teen char, lesbian logon ki jay jai kaar”; “Naa deham Naa istam”; “Kaun sa kaanun sabse battar, , teen sau satattar, teen sau satattar” reverberated through the annual rally, which aims at sensitising people on the issues that the community faces. 
 
 
 While the rally largely wanted to shed light on two legal demands of the community — the repealing of   and amendment of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill 2016, various other issues were also bright under the spotlight. 
 Holding a banner that read ‘Stop heterosexual marriages of homosexuals’ that sought to draw attention to the forceful marriages of gay men and lesbian women, Andy Silveira said, “Most of the time, the entire family is complicit in these sham marriages. Not wanting to admit the same-sex orientation of their son or daughter, the family members end up ruining the lives of their children.”
 The transgender community that chose the theme of Telangana state festival ‘Bathukamma’ for the rally, attracting quite a bit of attention. Upon reaching B K Guda park, activist Vyjayanti Mogli made asked the members to share any FIRs that they have lodged with the  , so that they can follow through.
 
 
 
 What was reassuring for the community was that support came in from people outside the   as well. People of all ages, from college students to senior citizens joined the parade. 
 “I’m extremely elated after the pride. Seeing many first timers join the pride walk dancing and enjoying themselves made me feel extremely happy! A friend of mine said, next year he will make his own banner and come to the pride,” enthused Silveira. 
 Jerrin Sebastian, who came to support the Queer community along with his friends said, “Now it’s high time to change our mentality . Up to an extent youngsters are ready to accept the fact and support their friends. But the parents level of understanding is still the same.”
 “The Hyderabad Swabhimana Yatra is as much about our assertion of identity as much as it is about a community celebration,” observed another demonstrator Ishwar Gudimetla.
 
