NEW DELHI: A host of top level political leaders from Nepal are visiting India from Monday, including former Prime Minister   and deputy Prime Minister   as well as chief justice of Nepal Sushila Karki. The high level visits come as political tensions intensify in Nepal, amid an ongoing  . Both Bhattarai and Nidhi are expected to meet the Indian leadership including PM Modi.

 The Madhesi issue is flaring up because the Prachanda government has not been able to pass the constitutional amendments necessary, which is one reason why Madhesis have been protesting, as much against their own leaders as against the Kathmandu government. The larger problem is the question of political stability, which is tied up with the unresolved Madhesi question and the longevity of the Prachanda government. By the terms of his deal with Sher Bahadur Deuba, he ought to relinquish power in April, but without local level elections that may not be possible.
 
 Madhes politicians are under pressure, both from their constituents as well as Kathmandu —  , leader of Samyukta Loktantrik Madhesi Morcha, decided to quit the ruling coalition citing the importance of constitutional amendment as a precondition to staying on. This is being repeated across the spectrum of Terai parties. Another Madhes leader, Bijay Gachchedar joined Prachanda’s coalition, along with Kamal Thapa who was named deputy PM. These might add some numbers to the coalition, but he is still short of the necessary votes to pass the constitutional amendment with two-thirds majority.
 
 Meanwhile, KP Oli, riding a tide of Nepali hill nationalism and anti-India sentiment appears to be waiting to pick Prachanda government apart.
 
 India’s role has become important again, but New Delhi, say analysts, is only focused on keeping Oli out of power. But the political realities of Nepal may make that difficult. This means even Madhesis don’t get the kind of attention from India they used to, as the message from India is that they should not rock the boat at the moment. India’s envoy to Nepal, Ranjit Rae has just retired, and the new ambassador, Manjeev Singh Puri has just been named to take over in Kathmandu. Nepal might be entering another period of instability again.
 
 Last week finance minister Arun Jaitley visited Kathmandu to participate in an investment summit, where he promised that India was ready to invest in projects of Kathmandu-Nijgadh fast track road, second international airport at Nijgadh, Koshi high dam, etc. in which India is ready to invest. The finance minister’s visit was aimed at reminding Nepal about India’s role in Nepal’s economic development, after China doubled down on promises of greater FDI into Nepal. But Nepal parliament is yet to ratify the BIPPA signed with India over four years ago – this makes investors a little wary.
 
 
