MUMBAI: As the   drew to a close on Sunday, a large section of Mumbaikars debated in their living rooms or by roadside tea stalls if the raging BJP-Shiv Sena feud of the last two weeks had obscured   such as inadequate water, poor roads and the hawkers’ menace.

 Sena president Uddhav Thackeray’s anti-Modi rant may have gone down well with the Sainiks who have been baying for the BJP’s blood after the saffron alliance ended ignominiously last month. However, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis too matched the Sena’s aggressiveness, raised the decibel level of the debate and displayed his Nagpuri temper from time to time. 
 
 Uddhav targeted   on all issues under the sun—from price rise and surgical strikes to the PM’s expensive ‘kurtas’. Fadnavis gave it back in the same coin, proving, as he admitted in a speech on Saturday, that he is the true devotee of Lord Narasimha, a fiery deity. Soon, it was Modi versus Matoshree with the Mahanagarpalika torn between the two. 
 
 Uddhav raised the separate Vidarbha issue too to tug at the heartstrings of Mumbaikar Marathis who are steeped in the Samyukta Maharashtra ethos of the 1950s. He warned the Marathis that the BJP was planning separate Vidarbha. Fadnavis tried to defuse the tension by invoking the Shivaji legend and, in a jibe at the Sena, said the Maratha king had insisted on transparent administration. 
 
 However, poll rhetoric apart, neither Uddhav nor Fadnavis could come up with a set of time-bound, concrete proposals to resuscitate Mumbai’s infrastructure, said observers. Even the ragtag Opposition—the Congress, NCP, MNS, MIM and the Samajwadi Party—failed to rustle up a plan for ‘aamchi Mumbai’, they added. Tall poll promises came aplenty, though. 
 
 “By the time the Metro projects go on stream, Mumbai’s population would have gone up by two lakh. Why can’t politicians think of a long-term policy?” asked noted theatre person Manasi Kulkarni. 
 
 “The entire Link Road has been dug up for the Metro project. People spend nearly two hours—and a large sum of money—travelling the Dahisar-Andheri stretch every day. But oblivious to the plight of citizens, politicians are busy trading charges,” said Amit Tanawade, a bank executive. 
 
 However, the Fadnavis-Uddhav spat catapulted the twin issues of demonetisation and corruption to the political marquee. Sena and BJP strategists are wondering if Mumbaikars may vent their ire on note-bandi on February 21, the voting day. 
 
 That is why Uddhav never missed a single opportunity to lambast the BJP for fooling the public on the black money issue in a bid to build bridges with the city’s mercantile community, which had tilted in Modi’s favour in the 2014 elections. 
 
 “The situation is dismal in the cloth, steel and chemical-medicine market even three months after demonetisation. The gold-diamond market is in turmoil as well. The BJP may suffer a 10%-15% decline in its Gujarati-Rajasthani votebank,” said Rishabh Shah, a diamond trader. The one-time BJP loyalist is now campaigning for a Sena candidate, a gold merchant, in a suburban ward. The Sena has printed 20,000 leaflets in Gujarati to woo the community. 
 
 Realizing that demonetisation could be the party’s Achille’s heel, the CM, in an astute move, turned the spotlight on corruption in the BMC. Fadnavis never stopped harping on ‘transparency’ in the BMC. 
 
 As if this was not enough ammunition to browbeat the Sena, the BJP roped in Kirit Somaiya, the party’s Sir Galahad from Mulund. Somaiya accused Matoshree of being involved in ‘benami’ companies.
 
 On the positive side, neither the Sena nor the MNS launched a broadside against ‘Outsiders’ for the simple reason that Mumbai’s Marathi-speaking population is fast dwindling and the two Thackeray cousins have to tap non-Marathi voters in the city to up their tally in the city hall. 
 
 The MNS dwelt at length on its “good work” (good roads and a botanical garden) in Nashik. Whether the MNS in Mumbai will profit by its Nashik report card is a debatable question.
 
 
