HYDERABAD: The   has finally started the recognition process for   in the city. This year, it has received 793 applications from existing schools and   from exclusive schools (only pre-primary).

 The move to crack the whip on all errant pre-primary schools comes two years after the death of six-year-old Fatima Xainab in a lift accident at a pre-primary school in November 2015. Following the accident, the department had issued direction to all district education officers to initiate the registration process for all schools intending to seek permission for pre-primary classes (nursery , LKG and UKG) as per GO Ms No 1, issued in 1994.
 
 In the forthcoming academic year, schools affiliated to all boards -state, CBSE, ICSE and IB -and running pre-primary classes have to seek recognition from the school education department. “We have received the maximum number of online applications from   and Golconda area. While the existing schools will not be inspected, those running exclusive pre-primary classes will be inspected by our officials,“ said Ramesh, district education officer of Hyderabad.
 
 Out of 83 exclusive schools in the city limits, the department has accorded re cognition to a meagre eight schools so far. “Majority schools are yet to fulfil the norms and submit various mandatory documents such as fire no objection certificate (NOC) and sanitation NOC, among others. After the Xainab incident, we are firm to not accord recognition to any school that does not fulfil safety and other norms,“ said Ramesh, adding that the last date for the schools to fulfil norms is June 12.
 
 As per guidelines, pre-primary schools have to be established in well-ventilated buil dings, on the ground floor and located away from commercial establishments such as markets and cinemas. They must also not be situated near natural barriers. Appropriate transportation from school to home, parking space and trained personnel to guide the children has been made must.
 
 While the department has made it mandatory to have sufficient number of qualified teachers, trained ayahs and other supporting staff for the safety of children, the government is yet to frame the curriculum for pre-primary sections. “The government is in the process of establishing a special course to train preprimary teachers. In the meanwhile, the   shall frame a curriculum for the pre-primary section. The same shall be implemented from next academic year,“ Ramesh said.
 
 For the parents' convenience, the department is also mulling putting up a list of recognised pre-primary schools on its official website soon.
 
