LUCKNOW: Former president and missile man of the country late   was a guide for millions but he is known to have acknowledged veteran politician   as his guru for learning Hindi.

 Late Kalam’s press secretary S M Khan, while reading a part of his book titled ‘The People’s president: APJ Abdul Kalam’ here on Sunday narrated an incident when Kalam acknowledged Yadav as his Hindi teacher.
 
 “On February 16, 2004, Kalam visited Saifai, Etawah, the home town of then chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav and addressed 40,000 farmers at Saifai stadium in the presence of the then SP president and his son  . Before he began speaking about the importance of villages in India, he acknowledged that whatever little Hindi he knew was thanks to Mulayam Singh, who had taught him the language when he was the defence minister while Kalam was his scientific advisor. He delivered the remaining part of his speech in English,” said Khan.
 
 During his book reading session at Sheroes, a café run by acid attack survivors in city, Khan recounted several instances related to the unconventional president and his views about Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “One role that I had to perform throughout was to simultaneously translate his speech in Hindi,” said Khan, adding, “Since he was not very well versed in Hindi and Urdu it posed a major problem whenever he had to address an audience that comprised Hindi speaking people.
 
 “In May 2012, during a conclave in Lucknow, Kalam said UP was the second largest economy in the country and suggested ways to increase its per capita income. One of the suggestions was to make a skill map of UP. He said out of every 100 skilled jobs generated worldwide, about eight could come directly from Uttar Pradesh where skills of different kinds have flourished over the centuries. Carpets of Bhadohi, brassware of Moradabad, glassware of Firozabad, mangoes of Malihabad, scissors of Meerut, locks of Aligarh, ceramic poetry of Khurja, leather work of Kanpur and Chikankari of Lucknow were the arts, craft and produce he mentioned,” said Khan. 
 
 He also spoke about how after taking charge in 2002, Kalam mended long-standing rituals and initiated several new ones. He not only abolished the tradition of a larger chair for the President on a dias at all events and of transportation of President’s car to wherever he went and made sure nobody called him ‘Mahamahim’, shared Khan.
 
 “He was the only President who opened the gates of Rashraparti Bhawan to common folk and children. On the first day of my joining, he told me right away that he wanted to make   a people’s place where voice of millions of down- trodden people would be heard and action taken,” Khan reminisced.
 
