MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a show cause notice to IPL team Kolkata Knight Riders ( ) promoters, Shah Rukh Khan, his wife Gauri and actor Juhi Chawla on Friday for violating Foreign Exchange Manage Act (Fema) rules.

 The KKR team promoters allegedly sold their shares in the company to a Mauritius-based company at lower prices in 2009, that caused Rs 73.6 crore foreign exchange loss to the government. The Mauritius-based company, The Sea Island Investment Ltd (TSIIL), was owned by Jay Mehta, husband of Juhi Chawla.
 
 Earlier, the ED had recorded Shah Rukh's statement in the case along with others concern. The ED investigated the violations and money involved after examining the relevant documents on the basis of which it concluded the forex loss amount. The agency then filed a complaint against Knight Riders Sports, Shah Rukh, Gauri and Chawla - who were managing the company - before the special director ED, Vineet Agarwal, who is also the adjudication authority (quasi judicial authority) in the case.
 
 The officials will call the IPL team promoters for their final hearing in two weeks and accordingly decide the penalty for violating Fema rules. The maximum penalty in the case will be three times the loss amount.
 
 "Based on the complaint, notices have been issued to the KKR team promoters to start the adjudication proceedings" said an officer.
 
 The ED had registered a case against KKR and three other IPL teams under Fema and summoned Khan twice in the past to record his statement. But the actor was busy with his film schedule and recorded his statement on November 2015.
 
 Khan reportedly told the officials that in 2009, the IPL and KKR were not profit making ventures and accordingly they evaluated the share prices at that point of time. He denied any wrongdoing in the process and stated that valuation of shares increased afterwards. But the ED officials were not convinced with his explanation.
 
 According to the ED case, initially, Shah Rukh and Gauri's company Red Chillies owned the entire shareholding of KKR. After the success of IPL, 50 lakh shares were issued to TSIIL and 40 lakh shares to Chawla. These shares were allotted at a par value of Rs 10, although the actual value of these shares was much higher.
 
 Chawla subsequently sold her 40 lakh shares to her husband's company SIIL on the same rate. Thus, TSIIL got 90 lakh shares of KKR at Rs 10 a share whereas the actual cost of each share ranged between Rs 86 to Rs 99. The ED concluded that it caused Rs 73.6 crore foreign exchange loss to the government.
 
