NEW DELHI: When it comes to motorsport in India,   remains one of the biggest trendsetters. In the past, it has successfully devised and conducted a huge range of events, from Sunday navigation fun rallies like the  ,   and the   to extremely technical   like the Rally of the North and the Rally Desert Storm, India's first international cross country rally.

 The latest feather in their cap is them collaboration with Amaury Sport Organisation (ASO), the vision behind the Dakar Rally. The India Baja, another brainchild of the Northern Motorsport, only into its second edition, has been granted the status of Dakar Challenge by the France-based sports management organisation that also organizes the Tour De France - the most followed cycling race in the world.
 
 Which means that India Baja 2017, to be conducted between April 7 and 9 in Rajasthan, will now be a Dakar Challenge event and the winner of the event will get free entry into the Merzouga Rally in Morocco, as well as the ultimate thrill of the Dakar Rally. A total of over 70 competitors, including top riders from Hero Motosports Team Rally and TVS Racing will be taking part in this extraordinary event.
 
 What makes the collaboration even more special is how in such a short span of time, India Baja has bagged the honour of associating itself with the Dakar Rally. Founder of Northern Motorsport, Raj Kapoor believes it wasn't something that happened overnight, or 15 days, six months or a year. The seeds for this were planted quite some time back.
 
 "Well, the discussions with ASO have been on for a while now; over five years. They had shown interest in the kind of work we were doing and we too were rather enthused with their appreciation. Hence the discussions carried on and finally culminated in us convincing them that India was right for a Dakar challenge event," Kapoor told Times of India Sports.
 
 The India Baja is an event designed on the Rally raid format, also known as cross-country rallying with a first of its kind held in December 1976. This form of long distance off-road racing takes place over several days. The length of the India Baja 2017 event is designed to be approximately 630 kilometres of racing over three days.
 
 According to Kapoor, that the collaboration worked also had to do with the rousing success of India Baja in its inaugural season last year. "The response has been encouraging, the entire motorsport fraternity has supported it, but we need to reach out beyond this niche group," Kapoor said. "It's important for us to reach the majority of the population that are fence sitters, we need to engage them and get them into our fold. The media can be a game changer here, with the right approach, it can help popularise the sport. "
 
 Ace Indian rider CS Santosh, who hurt his spine at the Desert Storm rally, will miss this edition of the India Baja since his team Hero MotoSports Team Rally has decided to give him more recovery time. In his absence, the team will be led by ace Portuguese rider Joaquim Rodrigues, one of the many international signings this season.
 
 How did that come about?
 
 "It was providence that Hero motorsport got conceived around this period which acted like a catalyst and TVS racing also jumped into the ring. This bought in top motorsport international talent and this worked well for the India Baja as well," Kapoor said about signing international racers.
 
 It is believed that the India Baja 2017 is a result of over 150 days of preparation along with 50 days of field recce. The event will have 50 official vehicles with a team of more than 100 volunteers. During the rally there will be 10 ambulances with life saving equipments and more than 20 trained medics to accompany the racers. However, despite the popularity of the India Baja, Kapoor is worried about the future of racing in India. There has been a dearth of racers and that is something that shall hamper the sport of racing in the country in the long run;
 
 According to Kapoor, the reason why Indian racers have failed to create ripples remains the same as in any other sport - lack of support, exposure and opportunity.
 
 "The sport has almost no support from the government and very sketchy corporate sponsorship. This is a major deterrent for nurturing new talent. The state needs to give this sport a helping hand and you will see that a whole lot of talent will emerge from all parts of the country," said Kapoor.
 
 That being said, the India Baja is a positive step forward. With world-class and talented domestic riders racing in the extreme temperatures and terrain, the future seems bright. "Northern Motorsport has a full calendar waiting in 2017. It will start the new season of the multi round national autocross championship to be run all over India as well start preliminary planning for the next Maruti Suzuki Desert Storm and India Baja 2018," said Kapoor.
 
 
