LUCKNOW: The rumblings in the rank and file of BJP over parachuted candidates have spread to different regions with workers staging demonstrations in some places while a few others resigning in protest. In some seats, the party has fielded sons and daughters of senior leaders at the cost of loyal party workers. The number is staggering enough -- on nearly 50 seats, the party couldn’t find a candidate from within ranks -- to spread widespread resentment among workers in the state, said sources.

 In Gautam Budh Nagar, Sanjay Bali, general secretary of BJP’s district unit and a contender for Noida assembly seat, quit his party posts on Sunday. A key aide of Union minister and Noida MP Mahesh Sharma, he openly voiced his protest against home minister Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj Singh being fielded from Noida.
 
 In Shahjahanpur, an outsider -- Manvendra Singh from Congress -- getting ticket from Dadraul annoyed the party’s district unit chief Rakesh Dubey so much that he even announced to immolate himself. Dubey, however, was taken into custody in Lucknow the next day when he made a bid to end life. Dubey is a dedicated BJP man for the past 28 years.
 
 Similarly, in Kairana, old party worker Anil Chauhan raised a banner of revolt when the party ticket went to Mriganka Singh, his cousin and daughter of local MP Hukum Singh. Chauhan was the BJP candidate in the bypolls two years ago when Hukum Singh resigned after becoming an MP. Though he could not win last time, he was confident of getting a ticket again.
 
 Last week, BJP workers in Allahabad staged a huge demonstration when murmurs about former   minister Nandgopal ‘Nandi’ joining the party started filling the air. However, their protests were ignored. Nandi and his wife -- mayor Abhilasha Gupta-- were not only inducted but Nandi was also given ticket from the city barely two days later.
 
 In many places like Agra, Etah, Baghpat and Amroha in western UP, party workers staged protests and burnt the effigies of local MPs to vent air to their grievances. Many others registered their protest on social media. Demonstrations have been held in Etah, the home district of Rajasthan governor and former chief minister Kalyan Singh, against his son and MP Rajveer Singh. Rajveer’s son Sandeep Kumar Singh got ticket from Atrauli seat in the first list itself.
 
