HYDERABAD: Goshamahal BJP legislator Raja Singh’s   against those opposing Ram temple at Ayodhya has triggered strong reaction from   (MBT). “Indian Muslims are not wearing bangles. We will not tolerate your rantings with silence. We warn you  ,” said MBT leader Amjedullah Khan.

 On Sunday, Khan also approached Dabeerpura police station to file a complaint against Raja Singh for his provocative statements during a Ramnavami procession in   on April 5. He lodged a complaint with a copy of Raja Singh’s speech on a CD. Based on the complaint, a case was lodged against Raja Singh under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of IPC. 
 
 “We have registered the case after legal opinion. We will decide whether to transfer it to Shahinayathgunj police station,” said Dabeerpura inspector D Venkanna Naik told TOI.
 
 Khan also posted a video reaction to the speech: “Why has Hyderabad police not acted against Raja Singh yet? Why is Telangana government not taking action?” he asked. 
 
 In his police complaint, Khan said the BJP MLA had made the statements at Jummerat Bazar, which according to police comes under Shahinathgunj police station. At a hugely attended Ram Navami Shobha Yatra, Raja Singh had said: “Ram lalla, hum aayenge. Mandir wahin banayenge. (We are coming. The temple will be built there).”
 
 As the crowd cheered, Raja Singh said those who try to stop construction of the temple are traitors and would be driven out of the country. The BJP MLA said the ‘mullah sarkar’ has gone in Uttar Pradesh. “Ab tumhari baap ki sarkar hai (now it’s our own government),” he told the crowd.
 
 Raja Singh also referred to a WhatsApp message, purportedly being circulated by Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (MIM) from Uttar Pradesh, that there would be trouble if Ram Temple was built.
 
 Amjedullah Khan, a two-time Hyderabad corporator, said Muslims are not scared but were waiting for the judgment on Ayodhya by  . 
 
 “We also know how to give you a fitting reply,” he said. “With the case of title deed still to be settled in the apex court, Raja Singh’s statements are contempt of court,” he said in the police complaint.
 
 Amjedullah said Raja Singh had taunted Muslims by saying: “Tum hamara pair pakad lo, kahin na kahin tumhara Babar ki masjid bana denge. (Fall at our feet, we will help build your Babar’s mosque somewhere).” He said despite all this hate speech, the police had neither stopped him.
 
 MIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owasi told TOI that he preferred not to react to Raja Singh’s speech. “I prefer to ignore Raja Singh’s remark. Let them speak more. Then Hindus who voted for BJP will realise they have been taken for a ride,” he said.
 
