Kolkata: The second phase of the East-West   corridor may not have faced so much trouble had the alignment been changed after a decision was taken to shift the Mahakaran station from its original location on Brabourne Road to BBD Bag (Lal Dighi), beleive experts who were once part of Kolkata Metro Railway Corporation Ltd (KMRCL) believe. 

 In fact, some of them expressed surprise at why Brabourne Road was kept as part of the alignment when there could have been a more direct route to BBD Bag from the Hooghly riverbank. “We had been saying from the start that a station on Brabourne Road was not feasible. KMRCL continued to persist with the original alignment prepared by Delhi Metro Railway Corporation Ltd (DMRCL), which was a consultant. Even after it was proved beyond doubt that the station could not come up at Brabourne Road, nearly two years were wasted. Had KMRCL chosen an alternate route, all these issues of heritage structures and old buildings wouldn’t have arisen,” an expert who was part of KMRCL at one time said. 
 
 According to him, the tunnel from the Hooghly riverbed should have emerged further south and moved towards Lal Dighi under Fairlie Place/Customs Buildings and the Reserve Bank of India rather than taking a wide curve via Brabourne Road. 
 
 “We knew from the start that the older buildings along Brabourne Road weren’t strong enough and even the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) have no blueprints or drawings of these structures. It wasn’t even clear who the original owners of these buildings were. Unfortunately, nobody paid heed to our objections,” he added.
 
 KMRCL chief engineer Biswanath Dewanjee, however, said that Metro alignments can’t be altered as they depend on demand. “It has to be considered that a river has to be spanned — by a bridge or a tunnel — at its narrowest point. The Brabourne Road stretch is part of the alignment as there was demand from Metro services from there. Initially, when the alignment was shifted from Bowbazar to Esplanade, Brabourne Road still had its relevance. It was later that the site of the Mahakaran station was shifted,” he said. 
 
 So far as the 25 buildings are concerned, KMC has already started issuing letters to KMRCL officials to inspect them. “There wouldn’t have been trouble had they been government structures. There is also trouble as they haven’t been inspected by civic authorities 40 years after their construction to ascertain whether they are fit or dangerous structures. If builidngs are declared dangerous and abandoned, there wouldn’t be any trouble. In Narkeldanga, we tunnelled under abandoned railway quarters,” Dewanjee added.
 
 
