Mangaluru: When Shekhar Kunder, 60, and his wife Thilothame came home on Saturday they were shocked to find their house broken into and gold and jewellery missing. Two days later, they were in for a pleasant surprise when the 99 sovereigns of jewellery was returned — tossed into the yard of their house in Adu Maroli — with a note from a Good Samaritan though the cash of Rs 13,000 is missing.

 “On Monday afternoon, we heard a bike and the sound of something being thrown into the front yard. We ran out and found a package of our stolen ornaments. All the jewellery was intact. We were elated. I have no words to express my joy. I cannot believe our good fortune,” Kunder said.
 
 Along with the jewellery was a letter addressed to the family. The letter, written in Kannada, read: “I was passing this house. I saw four men in the compound. Growing suspicious, I asked them what they had in the packets. They tried to assault me and fled. I caught hold of one packet, which I’m placing here. I did not approach the police as I did not want to invite trouble.”
 
 Their jewellery collection was the result of two decades of hard work. Shekhar, who now works at a garage, said he had bought the jewellery for his wife and two daughters in installments over a period of 20 years, when he was employed in the Gulf. “Whenever I came home, I would bring them some jewellery with the money I saved in the Middle East, thinking about their future. I worked in the Gulf for two decades. I have been working at a garage here for the past four years,” he said.
 
 Thilothame is a typist in the mines and geology department, while one of his daughters is married and the other works in Hyderabad.
 
 On Saturday afternoon, when Shekhar and Thilothame were at work, thieves entered the house and stole 99 sovereigns of gold and Rs 13,000 cash. “When I got home on Saturday afternoon, I found the clothes from the wardrobe scattered. The locker in which the gold was kept was broken. Our neighbours said it was raining and they did not hear anything. We did not know what to do. We rushed to the police. The next two days were difficult for us,” he said.
 
 Asked whether he and his wife were upset about the stolen Rs 13,000, he said, “That is big money for us. But, at least we got our jewellery back. This jewellery also included what our in-laws gifted to my daughter.”
 
 
