For anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare and BJP legislator Sanjay  , it was a setback when the Bombay   rejected their public interest litigations, saying, before knocking the doors of the court, they should approach the  .

 Hazare had demanded a probe by the CBI against NCP president Sharad Pawar and his nephew Ajit Pawar for causing a loss of Rs 25,000 crore during the disposal of loss-making cooperative sugar factories. A division bench presided over by Justice Abhay Oka asked   to first approach the police for a probe into the transactions and come to the court only if there was no response. Pawar was in the process of filing a defamation suit against Hazare, since the PILs were filed just a month ago before the civic and zilla parishad elections.
 
 Kelkar too was taken to task by the court over a   filed by him demanding a probe against 346 engineering colleges for submitting bogus documents to All India Council of Technical Education. The court said Kelkar should have first approached the police. The court also pointed out that as Kelkar was an elected representative, he should have raised the issue on the floor of the house for a probe against the erring colleges.
 
 
 
 
 A Mahalaxmi Saras exhibition, organized by the rural development department for promotion and sale of rural arts and crafts, recorded many cashless transactions. Rural development secretary Aseem Gupta and senior bureaucrats Kishore Raje Nimbalkar and R Vimala roped in a nationalised bank and swipe machines were provided to most of the 511 stalls free of cost along with brief training on the operation of the machine. Since it was not possible to provide bank accounts to all individual stall owners within a short span, it was proposed that money from all sales would be deposited in a single account and payments will be later distributed to them on the basis of transaction records. Authorities are hoping at least 50% of total transactions will be cashless. 
 
 Partner in crime
 
 More than two decades ago, BJP leader Gopinath Munde had caused a stir when he disclosed that a close aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim had travelled in a private plane of a leading politician. 
 
 The BJP made the politician-criminal nexus a poll plank in the 1995 assembly elections. Munde made several disclosures, resulting in a huge embarrassment to the Congress. Now decades later, BJP is facing a similar situation during elections to municipal corporations and zilla parishads owing to the entry of hardened criminals into the party. In the recent past, many individuals facing criminal charges have joined the party in the presence of cabinet members. A few days ago, an accused under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, joined BJP in the presence of food and civil supplies minister Girish Bapat. If a BJP leader is to be believed, then he may be expelled in day or two.
 
 
