At a time when the Tamil film industry is testing waters with quite a few comedians, actor   says that he is content with the kind of roles that he is playing. “I have done my fair share of comedy and played few serious characters as well. I am in a happy space right now. I think   had immense potential for a serious role. In Tamil cinema, majority of the comedians, including the legendary   Sir,   Sir or   Sir could play both comedy and serious roles with effortless ease. I think when you are into the character; you tend to switch to different roles easily,” says Sathish, who was in Coimbatore recently.

 With senior comedians like   trying his hand at playing the lead roles as well, does Sathish aspire to follow suit? “Santhanam has been in the industry for a long time and he has achieved so much. I, on the other hand, have just begun my career. Right now, I am not so keen to play a  . Moreover, who will watch me on screen if I play the lead? I am happy playing a hero’s friend. This hero’s friend is an interesting character. His full-time job is to be hero’s friend. No one knows who his parents are, what does he do for a living or where he resides.”
 
 So, is there a competition among comedians in the industry? “There are so many people doing comedy now. But, we are all friends- be it   or  . We are just the same as you see on screen. We cannot act in real life, too. And, there is absolutely no competition among us.”
 
 When asked if he was still watching Bigg Boss Tamil, (Sathish had appeared as a special guest in the studio in one of the episodes) the actor said, “I do follow the updates on the show. There is a lot of learning from the show from the contestants,” he winks. But, if given a chance to be part of the show, would he be up for it? “I doubt that because things are quite different when you watch it and when you are part of it. If inside the house, we might end up making the same mistakes the contestants made. I would have fought with people’s favourite Oviya as well. I prefer to just watch the show.”
 
  
 
