BHOPAL: Simmering resentment among the residents of TT Nagar, who are facing eviction in connection with   project, has forced officials to talk to affected people and convince them. 

 Employees staying in the government quarters have alleged that the alternate housing facility offered was unusable.Already state government suffered a loss of face after protests against Smart City project in Shivaji Nagar over felling of trees forcing change of project venue to North TT Nagar. 
 
 Some 500 quarters in Tulsi Nagar and TT Nagar area is to be vacated for the project. 
 
 An emergency meeting of Bhopal   corporation limited (BSCDCL) headed by district collector Nishant Warwade was convened here on Wednesday. According to sources, directorate of estates officials did not initiate renovation or repair of these structures, fearing damage and loss of property in vacant premises. “We would take a considerate view of the situation. Better coordination between departments will resolve the situation,” said Warwade, ahead of the meeting.
 
 After the meeting it was decided that officials from smart city cell and directorate of estates department would form a joint task force. They would undertake renovation and furnishing of houses being offered government employees. Representatives from smart city cell would also be stationed at directorate of estates. 
 
 Over the last week, there has been growing opposition to eviction notices to government employees living in South and north TT Nagar having ‘G’ and ‘I’ type housing facilities. Many of the affected have been residents in these localities for decades and are unwilling to leave. The old dilapidated houses being offered are in a bad shape and have been vacant for years. Some in Tulsi Nagar are also encroached.
 
 Many houses along Link Road 2 have only been whitewashed. “Closer look of these locations reveals the true picture. They are no better than living in a slum,” said Priyank Shivastava, a Tulsi Nagar resident. Another affected Rashi Thakur said, new housing options are limited. A list has been pasted on the walls of directorate of estates. “There are barely 294 options. Most of the ground floors are already taken up. Government should provide better alternative,” she said. 
 
 However, as expected some locations of Tulsi Nagar and Shivaji Nagar are still in smart city development zone. It includes about 850 government houses that would be demolished.
 
 
