MARGAO: With search operations conducted by the   (NRDF) team in the   bridge collapse disaster yielding no more results, and with no reports of missing persons being filed, the South Goa district administration authorities called off the search operations on Saturday.

 At the end of the operations, the death toll of the disaster stands at two. This has brought a huge sense of relief to locals, as initially a large number of people were feared to have gone missing. 
 
 Deputy collector  , who was personally monitoring the operations from the site since the disaster struck on Thursday evening, declared the operations to be over at 11am on Saturday. An order relieving all the agencies engaged in search and rescue operations from the site was issued by Fernandes, following the conclusion of the operations.
 
 “The search and rescue operations concluded successfully and peacefully. Altogether three bodies were recovered during the operations, the last one being that of the missing person, 26-year- old, Santosh ‘Basaiya’ Wandar, who had jumped into the river (before the bridge collapsed). The coastal police found his body two kilometres away from the disaster site. As the possibility of recovering more bodies is now slim, the operations were called off,” Fernandes told TOI. 
 
 A team of policemen have been deployed at the site to maintain a close vigil.
 
 The disaster struck Sanvordem late Thursday evening after a large number people who had gathered on the mild steel footbridge to watch the fire brigade personnel recover the body of Wandar, came crashing down into the waters. The mild steel bridge which was prohibited for use owing to its unsafe condition, crumbled under the weight of scores of onlookers.
 
 Fire and emergency services immediately launched the search and rescue operations, and were later joined by the  , and Coastal Security Police, which continued throughout the night of Thursday and Friday. Two bodies were recovered within the first few hours of the operations - Basavraj Malnavar, 30, a truck driver from Sanguem, and 28-year-old Ajit Prakash Ekka, a native of Jharkhand. NDRF had joined the search operations Friday afternoon. 
 
