Mumbai:   is livid with   for insisting that transparency in the BMC administration should be given top priority during the ongoing talks for sharing of seats for the BMC elections, sources in the Sena said on Tuesday.

 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis rang up Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday and tried to assuage him, it is learnt. The BJP's demand for 115 of the total 227 BMC wards has turned out to be a major hindrance in hammering out a seat adjustment formula for the upcoming polls. Matoshree thinks that the BJP is deliberately bringing up the transparency issue to pin down the Sena as “solely responsible for corruption” in the Mumbai civic body.
 
 The BJP wants an assurance from the Sena that it would strive to inject transparency and accountability in the sprawling civic administration. BJP leaders Kirit Somaiya and Ashish Shelar have been gunning for the the Sena on corruption in road repairs, and the conservancy and Octroi departments.
 
 “Actually, the BMC administration is under the thumb of the municipal commissioner who takes orders from Mantralaya. So, Fadnavis should give us an undertaking that he would uphold transparency in the civic administration,” said a Sena functionary. 
 
 Senior Sena functionary Anil Parab said the Centre and the state government too should uphold the principle of transparency. “The Lokayukta, the leader of the Opposition and the media should be invited for the state cabinet meetings to ensure transparency. If the Centre believed in transparency, it should have taken people into confidence on demonetisation,” Parab said. Earlier in the day, Parab and MP Anil Desai briefed the Sena president on the pace and scope of negotiations. During talks with Fadnavis over the phone on Tuesday, Uddhav expressed dissatisfaction over the BJP’s transparency talk in the run-up to the BMC elections. Under such conditions it would be difficult for the Sena to continue negotiations with the BJP, Uddhav is believed to have told the CM. However, Fadnavis pacified Uddhav and suggested that the Sena should join the seat negotiations on Wednesday in Mumbai. Uddhav is said to have agreed. Fadnavis is said to be keen on inking a poll pact with the Sena as he needs the latter’s support to expedite a slew of infrastructure projects. However, a sizeable section in Mumbai BJP is keen on going solo for the BMC polls in view of the Sena’s acerbic and non-stop attacks on the Centre and the Fadnavis regime from time to time. “Saamna compared demonetisation to the Jallianwalla massacre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was called Afzal Khan. Such language is hurtful,” said a BJP MP.
 
