BENGALURU: After years of waiting, citizens can take an alternative route to   from Sunday. The alternative road was readied on a war footing to ensure it was opened before   2017 kicked off on February 14, 2017.

 The alternative route is meant mainly for vehicles coming from  , and will enter the airport from the village of Begur. The assessment of the traffic police shows that at least 35% traffic towards the city comes from east or southeast Bengaluru. “We wanted to open an alternative route to the airport before Aero India, so that the burden on Ballari Road is reduced. We want to continue this after Aero India is over too,” said R Hitendra, additional commissioner of police, traffic.
 
 From Sunday, vehicles from East Bengaluru will come through KR Puram, Hennur Cross, Bagalur, Mylanahalli, Begur and the southwest entrance of the airport. “We will deploy officers and men along the   to guide commuters till they are familiar with it,” the officer added.
 
  
  
 
 
 Explaining the new route, deputy commissioner, northeast, said: “While going to the airport via Ballari Road, commuters ride up the flyover after the toll plaza. As you travel on the road towards the airport terminal, you will reach two circles - the first with a globe structure and a second one later. The new entrance will take you towards the second circle, without having to go through Ballari Road.”
 
 The   (BIAL) perimeter wall on the southwest side was brought down on Thursday to allow vehicles access to the airport. Though there is good road connectivity till the airport wall, a mud road runs for around 900 metres inside the campus up to the terminal entrance.
 
 “Though it is a mud road at the moment, it is wide and can accommodate traffic. We are also trying to tar the road before opening it for traffic,” the officer added.
 
 A BIAL spokesperson confirmed the opening of the new entrance, saying it was done in view of the upcoming Aero India. Sources in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) said the portion where the wall was brought down was part of BIAL property and not the main Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) guarded by CISF. Breaking the perimeter wall posed no security concern.
 
