Nagpur: Students of the National Power Training Institute (NPTI), South Ambazari Road, on Monday demanded a written assurance to guarantee placement opportunities from the management within two days.

 Over 100 students held a meeting with the institute’s officials and questioned them over the laxity in effort to bring companies for campus placements.
 
 “If no reply is given by Wednesday, we will protest in front of the campus until our demands are met,” said Ravi (names changed), a student. “This is a government institute which should be able to provide equal opportunities,” he added.
 
 Last week, the students of NPTI, who are about to conclude their post graduate diploma course, gheraoed institute’s head DM Lokhande to complain about the poor campus placement. Students were told that the power sector in facing recession due to which companies have reduced recruitments.
 
 Students though, were unconvinced of the answer and pointed out that campus placements are being conducted in other branches of NPTI across the country.
 
 They hinted that the relationship between training and placement officer V Vidyasagar and the rest of the management has deteriorated. Ravi said, “We know that Vidyasagar has contacted many companies inviting them to conduct campus recruitments, but it seems that his efforts have been subverted by the management.”
 
 During the meeting, Vidyasagar said, “Students and the management are aware of the efforts that I have made. That is all I have to say.”
 
 Students also said that companies were allegedly giving more preference to the Faridabad branch of NPTI and recruiting students there. Another student Subhash told TOI, “Companies which were contacted by their branch excused themselves from campus placement claiming that there were no vacancies. But we later found that the same companies did conduct placements in Faridabad.”
 
 A couple of students shared TOI’s July 14 story about NPTI’s claim of recession on Twitter complaining about lack of action. They were blocked by NPTI’s official twitter handle. Institute’s director general RK Pandey tweeted, “It’s a negative campaign by some groups in Nagpur who are creating confusion among all. Instructions issued.”
 
 Students also alleged one of the reason’s that the management gave for marginal placement opportunity is that students are not applicable. Lokhande and other officials were pressurized to give a clarification on the statement. However, the officials kept mum.
 
 
