IMPHAL: The BJP, after its electoral success in Assam last year and installation of its government in   through 'defection', is now breathing down the neck of   in its own citadel in the northeast. Notwithstanding the outcome of this year's assembly polls in Manipur, the saffron party looks all set to be the biggest gainer. 

 For Manipur chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, it's the most crucial election in his political career after heading the Congress government for the last 15 years. Congress leaders, while admitting the rise of BJP, still have immense confidence in Ibobi to sail through.
 
 Barring the Left-ruled Tripura, Congress had been a dominant force in all NE states, but not anymore. Of the seven states, Congress is in power in only three - Mizoram, Meghalaya and Manipur. BJP, which has Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, is a coalition partner in the NPF-led DAN government in Nagaland.
 
 The mood is upbeat at the state BJP headquarters in Imphal's Nitaipat-Chuthek. Many RSS leaders have been flown in here to assist party leaders in executing their plan of a Congress-mukt Manipur. "There is a BJP wave in Manipur now. All top Congress leaders have BJP phobia. They are nervous," said Kshetrimayum Bhabananda, state BJP president. He termed this election as the most crucial one for the state so far.
 
 For BJP, which didn't manage to win a single seat in the 2007 and 2012 assembly polls, this election is of immense importance to make a mark. However, it managed to win two seats in the bypolls in November, 2015. But one of the two MLAs later defected to Congress.
 
 BJP first opened its account in the Manipur assembly by winning the Yaiskul seat in Imphal in the 1995 polls. The party then increased its tally in the following elections by winning six seats in 2000 and four in the 2002 polls.
 
 One of the reasons for BJP's downfall was the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government's decision to extend the ceasefire with NSCN(IM) to Manipur. The Centre made a U-turn and limited the Naga ceasefire to Nagaland only following huge protests in the Imphal Valley in June, 2001, resulting in the death of 18 protesters in police firing. The agitators retaliated by setting ablaze the assembly building and other government establishments. 
 
 An RSS pracharak based in the northeast told TOI, "We had to pay a heavy price in the valley which is predominately inhabited by Vaishnavite Meiteis. We are trying to regain lost ground now." 
 
 Now, the saffron party is trying to convince the people of the valley that the framework agreement signed between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) does not have any clause that can harm Manipur's territorial integrity. Even Union home minister Rajnath Singh said the same thing. 
 
 Under RSS's instructions, BJP has been very choosy while taking Congress leaders in its fold. They have chosen five Congress MLAs based on their capabilities. Yumkham Erabot was chosen for his clean image, N Biren Singh because of his ability to convince people on state's territorial integrity, Francis Ngajokpa for his clout in Naga areas and Nemcha Kipgen for her leadership in the Kuki community.
 
 The RSS had even scuttled BJP's plan to induct 11 more Congress legislators, including ministers, just before the announcement of the elections. "We are confident of a majority. We'll be the largest party in the hills by defeating Congress and NPF. In the valley, it is a direct fight between BJP and Congress. BJP will be a party for the whole of Manipur," said  , BJP general secretary.
 
 Of the 60 assembly seats in Manipur, 40 are in the valley and 20 in the hills. The saffron party is expecting to do well in the hills predominantly inhabited by Christian tribals. While BJP leaders are hopeful of a victory, many saffron footsoldiers believe that the party can win anything between 10-20 seats. Congress leaders, too, admitted that BJP will touch the double-digit mark this time. From drawing a blank in the last two elections, BJP has emerged as an alternative to Congress in Manipur.
 
 Union human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar, the most prominent central BJP leader in Manipur, can also see the difference. "In the last election, hardly 100 people used to turn up to attend a BJP rally. But this time, the turnout is in thousands. There is a marked rise in BJP's support," said Javadekar. 
 
 
