NEW DELHI: India has shown a steady increase in the number of account information and content removal requests sent to Twitter from the government since 2012, with the maximum number of requests made between January and June, 2017. India made 104 requests for content removal and another 261 requests for account information. India made the sixth largest number of requests for account information in the world after the US,  , the UK,   and France. Twitter released these numbers in its half-yearly transparency report.

 Twitter fulfilled 21% of the 261 account information requests India made between January and June 2017. These requests covered 659 accounts. This number was up from 168 requests made in the period July-December 2016, where 427 accounts were specified. Although the number of requests has been lower in previous years, the number of accounts has been significantly higher before. In the period January-June 2015, the Indian government made 113 requests for account information, but specified a total of 2,963 accounts in them. Twitter complied with 19% of the requests in this case.
 
 “These fluctuations and rise in numbers is tough to ascribe to any one factor. It could be because of more people using the service, or because of the government starting to recognise Twitter and social media as places where a law and order problem can occur, or it could be censorship,” says Parminder Jeet Singh, executive director for Bengaluru-based NGO IT for Change. He says that the Indian procedures for online blocking and removal of content needs to evolve to include a quasi-judicial body or person to vet such requests.
 
 In India, under section 69 A of the IT Act, the central government can issue directions for blocking of online content “in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order.”
 
 For the first half of 2017, the US government made the maximum account information requests at 2,111 requests. Twitter’s compliance rate here is also higher at 77%. Japan stands second with 1,384 requests, the UK with 606, Turkey with 554, and France with 474.
 
 In requests made for removal or withholding of content too, India stood at the sixth position with 104 requests while Turkey led the charge with 2,710 requests. Twitter measures these as requests made through court orders and through government agencies and law enforcement agencies. “Withholding” of content refers to blocking an account or a tweet from a specific country. Most recently in India, the government had asked for the removal of 248 pieces of Twitter content spanning accounts, tweets, and even hashtags in two requests this August. These largely covered tweets and Twitter accounts of those in Kashmir and in neighbouring Pakistan. Earlier this month, convicted rapist and Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s Twitter account was “withheld” in India after a request from Haryana Police.
 
 Of the 104 requests for removal India made in the first half of this year, Twitter did not comply with any. The cases mentioned above would bump the numbers up in the compliance department in Twitter’s next transparency report.
 
 The 2,710 removal requests from the Turkish government this year covered a colossal 9,289 accounts. Twitter complied with 11% of these requests.
 
 The Pakistan government made 104 removal requests and seven requests for account information this year. Twitter did not comply with any of these. In March this year, officials from the Pakistan government had approached Facebook and Twitter with a request to identify accounts posting blasphemous content. Pakistan’s interior minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan told the press that the government had identified 11 people for questioning over alleged blasphemy.
 
