PUNE:   chief   on Thursday targeted the   for not withdrawing from the BJP-led state government. He said he wanted to know why the Sena was still waiting to part ways.

 “What more insult are you waiting for before withdrawing support?“ Thackeray said, addressing his maiden election rally for the civic elections in Pune.
 
 Coming down heavily on the ongoing tussle between the Sena and the BJP , Thackeray said both parties were fooling voters. Despite criticism, both are still sticking together for power which neither wants to forego, he said.
 
 “Whatever is going on between the Sena and the BJP is pre-decided. The plan is to attract the attention of the media and the people and be in the limelight. Both have done this in the past. The same strategy was implemented during the 2014 assembly polls when they fought before the election but joined hands after the results.The strategy is similar for the civic polls as well. Both parties do not have anything to speak about development issues,“ Thackeray said. Targetting the BJP for its non-performance and false promises, Thackeray said the party's performance has been constantly down after the   polls. The BJP has been in poli tics for the last 50 years, but it lacks a strong cadre which had led it to picking candidates from other parties, he said.
 
 “The BJP has given a free entry to goons and people with criminal cases. Such candidates were imported from other parties after striking deals in high amounts. People should think before casting a vote to such a party ,“ Thackeray said.
 
 He said his party had, in the last five years, implemented many projects in Nashik where it is in power. “We did not face a single allegation of corruption. We can show what we have done. Why can't the Sena, BJP , NCP and   display their works before people when these parties have been ruling cities like Mumbai and Pune for 25 years? They have nothing to show,“ Thackeray said.
 
 The MNS is the only party with a blueprint for the development of the state, the other parties do not have any vision, he said. He said his party would develop the Mula and Mutha river fronts after coming to power.
 
