NEW DELHI: In a season of changing dynamics in the  ,   is the latest to be at the wrong end of selectors' stick. Hailed as someone critical to the future of Delhi cricket and an India prospect not too long ago, Unmukt was dropped on Thursday from the Delhi one-day squad for the  .

 This is the second bold decision taken by the selectorial team of Atul Wassan, Nikhil Chopra and Robin Singh and coach KP Bhaskar recently - they had handed over the one-day captaincy to 19-year-old   from  . In Unmukt's case, the 'wise men' have cited a lack of performance behind the decision even as some insiders have hinted that it may not be a purely cricketing decision. 
 
 “He has been dropped on the basis of his performance in Ranji Trophy. He hasn't been performing for a few seasons now,” Chopra told TOI. “This is a wake-up call for not only Unmukt but for every member of the team. No one can take his place for granted. I know he (Unmukt) can bounce back and he remains in our scheme of things.”
 
 It has been a dramatic fall for Unmukt who was appointed the captain of the Ranji Trophy team at the start of the 2016-17 season. The opening batsman had a poor Ranji season where he scored 366 runs at an average of 30.50 with just one century. He has then floundered in the ongoing Mushtaq Ali T20 event, scoring 84 runs in six games.
 
 However, a look at the performance of Delhi batsmen in the last Ranji tournament shows that almost everyone barring Pant had a mediocre season. While Pant racked up 972 runs, Milind Kumar with 485 and Nitish Rana with 404 were the next best, just ahead of Unmukt. To compound Delhi's woes, stalwarts like Shikhar Dhawan and Gambhir too failed to get going, averaging below 30 for the season.
 
 Selector Chopra put it in perspective when he said, “Only Pant was performing well, and that's why he was named the captain.”
 
 Interestingly, Unmukt was the highest scorer for Delhi in the Hazare tournament last season when he guided the team to the final while scoring 341 in eight matches at 56.83.While his first-class performances haven't lived up to the promise, Unmukt's one-day form has been steady.
 
 Now, it's up to the batsman to turn things around and scorch the turf again.
 
