KOLHAPUR: The standing committee of the   ( ) suggested a hike of Rs 38.58 crore in the revenue and capital expenditure of the   for 2017-18. 

 Sandeep Nejdar, chairman of the committee, presented the final budget of the KMC to the general body meeting on Thursday. Last week, municipal commissioner P Siva Sankar had presented the budget of Rs 519 crore to the standing committee.
 
 The civic panel has suggested capital works of over Rs 20.30 crore, while expenses on the revenue front have been increased by Rs 17.18 crore. The committee has given much emphasis on improving civic health infrastructure, along with providing better service for solid waste and sewage management. 
 
 “Separate allocations have been made for ward-level health centres and two major hospitals-Savitribai Phule Hospital, Panchganga Hospital and Isolation Hospital. A provision of around Rs 1 crore has been made in the final budget to improve the amenities in these hospitals. Also, we are going to start a blood bank and have decided to raise Rs 1 crore for it,” said Nejdar. 
 
 He added, “To transfer the piled-up waste at the existing dumping site to a landfill site, we have set aside Rs 4 crore and develop dumping site for waste to energy project. Also, some funds have been set aside to cap the waste from the dumping grounds.”
 
 The civic panel has decided to spend Rs 1 crore to provide e-learning facilities in its schools. Also, Rs 1 crore has been set aside for nullah channelization to ensure that the low-lying areas of the city do not get flooded during monsoon. The committee has proposed the idea to protect the open spaces from encroachments with the help of private parties involved. 
 
 Significant fund of Rs 4 crore have been set aside for the office-bearers such as mayor, deputy mayor, chairman of standing committee, leader of opposition to undertake development works in their respective wards. Also, corporators have received a hike in their grants for development works. 
 
 The corporators slammed the civic authorities for failing to undertake the works suggested by the standing committee last year. NCP corporator Jayant Patil said, “The schemes floated by the committee have not been completed. For instance, I am hearing of construction of multi-level parking at Central Bus Stand (CBS) since last four years and it is mentioned in the budget every time. However, the project has not yet commenced.”
 
 Patil further said the civic administration gets approval to impose new taxes; however the purpose for the same is not fulfilled. “We approved administration's demand to impose sewage management tax. However, the sewage continues to enter Panchganga river. It is the same with Wi-Fi scheme. No officer is ready to take responsibility to initiate the projects suggested by the standing committee,” he said. 
 
 Vijay Suryawanshi, leader of the opposition, slammed the civic administration for failing to complete projects. “I demand that a special meeting should be called to discuss the outcome of the suggestions made in the standing committee's budget. In the last budget, 45 projects were floated but very few have been initiated. Only 35% of the works suggested in last year's budget have been completed by the civic administration,” he said.
 
