PALAKKAD: In a major breakthrough in the investigation of the rape and murder of two minor dalit sisters at   in Walayar, the police have reportedly recovered the pictures of the sexual abuse of the girls from the mobile phone of one of the five accused now in police custody.

 The postmortem report had found that “the minors were subjected to multiple sexual assaults, including unnatural sex”.
 
 Meanwhile, the deceased girls’ mother told mediapersons here on Wednesday that “my daughters were sexually abused and then murdered in a cold-blooded manner”.
 
 She alleged that “earlier, the police tried to make it a case of suicide. In the FIR on the death of the elder girl, the police recorded it as suicide, despite being told that one of the relatives was found sexually harassing her and we had warned him many times on the matter. But the police did not take our complaint at its face value. They did not conduct a proper investigation of the death of the elder girl that resulted in the sexual exploitation and murder of the younger daughter too,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, several women’s organizations, on the International Women’s Day on Wednesday, organized protest marches and meetings against the alleged rape and murder of the two minor sisters at Walayar.
 
 The Democratic Women’s Association, the women’s wing of the CPM, has come out strongly against the police and the home ministry headed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 It demanded suspension of the investigating officers “who tried to suppress the facts to save the accused who are also supported by some prominent political leaders of the district”.
 
  area committee secretary M Nazeema said that “if action is not taken against the investigating officers, the association will launch a mass agitation against the police department and the home ministry”.
 
 “But the police did not seriously investigate the matter that resulted in the rape and murder of the younger sister too. So the police officials, whose dereliction of duty resulted in this tragedy, should be suspended and punished,” association president K Usha Kumari said.
 
 The  , the women’s wing of the BJP, and the  , the women’s wing of the CPI, took out march demanding proper investigation of the case.
 
 Meanwhile, CPM MP M B Rajesh blasted the police for their “lapses in the investigation of the alleged rape and murder of the siblings in Walayar”.
 
 
