Vadodara: City-based Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti (PSS) has demanded closure of Narmada Clean Tech (NCT), the joint venture firm of   (GIDC), which runs the final effluent treatment plant (FETP) in Ankleshwar.

 The organization has demanded that the ‘consolidated consent and authorization’ to NCT must be cancelled, alleging that it has “consistently failed to meet the prescribed norms of GPCB since its inception.” 
 
 PSS has issued legal notices to 10 respondents including secretary, union ministry of environment, forests and climate change, chief secretary and additional chief secretary of Gujarat government, chairman and member secretaries of the   (CPCB) and the   (GPCB) and chairman of NCT. 
 
 The notice states that the authorities’ inaction to do so will be considered as contempt of the Supreme Court order which was issued last month. 
 
 NCT formerly known as Bharuch Eco Aqua Infrastructure Limited, which was earlier a private company, is now a subsidiary company of the GIDC. It is also a joint venture of member industries of Ankleshwar, Jhagadia and Panoli industrial estates.
 
 According to PSS, it is writing letters about FETP’s failure to meet prescribed GPCB norms since 2008 but it has not received any response to its letter regarding the issue of non-compliance which it has written on December 12, last. 
 
 “We are extremely concerned that MoEFCC and GPCB are openly allowing NCT to consistently admittedly violate environment laws. Even the results of October 2016 to February 2017 indicate that even when moratorium of Ankleshwar and Panoli has been lifted, it is not meeting the prescribed norms,” claimed   of PSS.
 
 FETP’s own reports indicate that while GPCB’s prescribed outlet norm of ammoniacal nitrogen (NH3-N) is 50, the actual outlet has consistently remained over 250. Similarly, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) norm in outlet is 500 while the inlet norm is less than 1,000. But the COD levels have also remained above prescribed norms. 
 
 NCT receives treated industrial effluent from common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) of Ankleshwar, Jhagadia and Panoli industrial estates and treat it at FETP upto prescribed norms of GPCB before discharging it into the deep sea through 52.76 km pipeline. 
 
 
