Nagpur: According to noted neurologist Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram, one out of six people are going to be affected with   in their lifetime. About 30% of the affected ones are going to die. While, among the ones who survive, 30% will be handicapped or will be suffering through a neurological disorder and may not have a way to undo all that.

 The startling figures were revealed by Meshram during a public awareness program titled ‘Brain attack (Stroke)’. The program was conducted at Scientific Hall, Laxminagar, on the occasion of World Brain day, organized by Indian Academy of Neurology in collaboration with Nagpur Neuro Society and Orange City Cultural Foundation.
 
 Meshram said, “Stroke is closely associated with old age. There is a change in trend where over 20% of stroke patients are people not older than 40. Surprisingly, in 90% cases the cause of stroke is something avoidable.”
 
 He said, “Obesity and Hypertension are generally associated with patients who suffer stroke. Both of these factors can be avoided by bringing simple change in lifestyle.”
 
 Apart from Meshram, neurologist Dr Dinesh Kabra, physiotherapist Dr Sheetal Mundhada and psychiatrist Dr Sudhir Bhave addressed the audience of about 400 people on the occasion. An award-winner Hollywood film on Brain Attack was also screened during the programme. Followed by that, Director Dr Jabbar Patel and Former dean of Film and Television Institute of India Samar Nakhate interacted with the audience.
 
 Kabra talked about the signs which relatives can pick up if the person may be experiencing stroke in near future. He said, “If the relative have slightest doubt watching the person, they can ask the person to laugh, the lips might appear tilted. Ask the person to lift their hand, the person might feel lack of strength in his/her hands, eventually the hands may shiver. The person while speaking might be talking blur or might even speak bizarre things.”
 
 Physiotherapist Mundhada said, “There are various myths related to stroke. In my 30 years of experience, I have observed that most of my patient’s relatives believe applying Pigeon’s blood over the affected body organs will heal it. Relatives also believe if massaging or holding salt in the palm might be helpful. Such things don’t help.”
 
 While Bhave talked about how the stroke patient should work on his attitude. He said, “Being positive in that phase and accepting limitations can make the patient’s life much easier as well as speed-up the healing process.”
 
 
