NEW DELHI: Had the Special Cell sleuths missed nabbing Satyawan Sehrawat alias   at the Singhu border on Thursday morning, Delhi could have seen another gruesome death. After being taken in by police, the gangster confessed that he was on his way to the city to eliminate  , wife of his friend-turned-foe  , who he had gunned down in April.

 Sonu wanted to eliminate Rajrani not only due to a long-running family feud, but also because she was a witness in a 2006 murder case. That year, the gangster had intercepted Monu and Rajrani in Punjabi Bagh and opened fire. While the couple evaded death, the driver was killed and Sonu was charged with murder.
 
 According to police, Sonu said that he was to meet associate Vijay and conduct a recon of Rajrani’s house. He had already arranged for weapons and was carrying a pistol of foreign make that could load 15 bullets at a time. Cops found 13 bullets in the magazine, showing he had fired two shots at the intercepting police team. He also had another pistol in the car with four bullets in them. The i20 car he was travelling in at the time of his arrest belonged to his aide Rajesh Rajje, who is in jail.
 
 After killing the woman, Sonu told the interrogation team led by Sanjeev Yadav, DCP (Special Cell), that he planned to collect extortion money from a few cable operators and issue fresh threats to two others. When contacted for a comment, Yadav said, “The investigation is at an initial stage. We are verifying his claims.”
 
 Sonu, however, confirmed to the police that the weapons used in the murder of Monu Dariyapur were supplied by gangster Manjeet Mahal. The cops plan to question Mahal, who is in Tihar jail, about this. Yadav said investigators are trying to recover the weapons used in the Monu shooting and raids are on in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana. 
 
 The cops are probing into Sonu’s criminal acts in order to charge him under the stringent MCOCA. The criterion for a MCOCA case requires two charge-sheets against the gangster, apart from his running an organised syndicate. The cops have discovered a recent case lodged against him at Rani Bagh police station for an extortion bid. Sonu is estimated to be making up to Rs 1 crore in extortion and sharing the loot with jailed associates like Mahal and his brother, Anil, who is also in Tihar, sources said.
 
 
