KOLKATA: The body of  , who died of brain haemorrhage in New York where he was pursuing his masters at the New York University, was flown to Kolkata early on Monday morning and cremated at the  .

 "Debarpan passed away on Saturday but his parents in Kolkata were informed only on Sunday when all the arrangements were made to fly back his body to Kolkata. His parents were already very shocked at Debarpan’s sudden hospitalisation due to brain haemorrhage," said Kaushik Munshi, Debarpan’s maternal uncle.
 
 A pall of gloom had descended on the 13 Sukeas Street home of Debarpan on Monday morning. His mother Tinku was inconsolable while his father Debashish was stoic silence. After the cremation, a puja was organised at home.
 
 "The relatives have started coming in from Sunday night itself. Everybody is shocked at the sudden passing away of Debarpan," said Munshi.
 
 Debarpan had left for New York in September last year to pursue his Masters. He studied in Hindu School and is an alumnus of Netaji Subhash Engineering College. After completing his studies he worked for Intel,   and TCS. Last year he quit his job and decided to go to New Yok University to pursue his masters.
 
 "His mother wanted him to get married but he wanted to go abroad for further studies. His parents supported his decision. He was in regular touch with his mother. Even throughout last week he spoke to his mother everyday but did not complain of any uneasiness. The news of his illness came as a shock," said  , Debarpan’s maternal aunt.
 
 Sushma Swaraj, minister for external affairs, in a series of tweets had assured all help to Debarpan’s parents after some of his friends tweeted to the minister. Debarpan’s uncle Kaushik Mantri said that the family did faced some minor issues in obtaining a no objection certificate to transport the body back to Kolkata.
 
 "I contacted the personal assistant of   ji. He assured us that we will not face any problems in flying down Debarpan’s body back. We did not face any problem after that," said Munshi. 
 
