BHUBANESWAR: It was supposed to be a heated exchange between the lawyers in a crowded courtroom, and it was. After all, present in the mix was   MP  , alleged to have conspired with   and duped thousands of investors in a chit fund scam. 

 But none expected Bandyopadhyay to speak up. He sought the permission of the special chief judicial magistrate ( ) to speak and when granted, quoted Mahatma Gandhi as he presented his argument. 
 
 "I was called up by the CBI in November last year to appear before them. As I was busy with official work, I sought some time. I appeared before them on Tuesday. I was shocked to face some unsubstantiated and irrelevant questions from the CBI," the 64-year-old Bandyopadhyay, a four-time Lok Sabha member, said.
 
 Bandyopadhyay, chairman of the railway standing committee and TMC leader in Lok Sabha, said the CBI made him sit idle for four hours in their office. 
 
 "Out of the six hours in detention, I was asked only around six questions for two hours. I replied their questions with documentary evidence. I categorically told the CBI that I had no link with the scam. I never promoted the firm, nor did I make foreign trips with its money," he told the court. 
 
 "I clearly told I visited several foreign countries on official tours, but those trips were never sponsored by Rose Valley. It pained me when CBI asked me the questions without any documentary evidence," he told the court. 
 
 Quoting Gandhi, Bandyopadhyay said innocent persons should not be punished. "Ninety-nine guilty persons may be allowed to go scot free, but a single innocent person should not be punished. I am innocent. I appeal to the court to give me justice. It will be a black day if I do not get justice."
 
 Bandyopadhyay said he was ready to cooperate with the probe agency. "The CBI made false allegations that I was non-cooperative. I am a responsible politician and a known face in the country. My intention was not to mislead anyone. I never tried to run away," the TMC leader said. 
 
 During his seven-minute submission to the judge, he, however, refrained from criticising the BJP government at the Centre. 
 
 
