Amaravati: In an order issued on Sunday the AP government gave 11   officers and two   officers new postings. 

 Manmohan Singh, special chief secretary of the animal husbandry as well as diary development and fisheries department, has been transferred to land endowments and disaster management and revenue department in place of JS Venkateswara Prasad who has been transferred to Singh’s department.
 
 K Praveen Kumar, principal secretary of rain shadow areas development, has been transferred and posted as commissioner of minorities welfare and ex-officio principal secretary to minorities welfare department.
 
 B Udaya Lakshmi, commissioner of intermediate education and secretary, board of intermediate education, posted at backward classes welfare department, in the existing vacancy. She is also given full additional charge as the commissioner, intermediate education and secretary, board of intermediate education. K Sunitha, secretary of finance department is transferred to women and child welfare department in place of U Aparna. G Vani Mohan has been posted as commissioner, archaeology and museums. I Samuel Anand Kumar is posted as special commissioner of marketing. Sagili Shan Mohan who is now sub-collector of Kukkanoor and project officer of ITDA-SR Puram has been posted as additional commissioner of Capital Area Development Authority (CRDA).
 
 Budithi Rajasekhar, commissioner, civil supplies, ex-officio principal secretary to government, consumer affairs, food & civil supplies is kept in full additional charge of the post of principal secretary to government real time governance department.
 
 KS Jawahar Reddy, principal secretary, panchayat raj department, also kept in full additional charge of the post of special chief secretary to rural development department. Anoop Singh has been posted as special secretary to the planning department.
 
 SS Sridhar has been posted as special secretary to panchayat raj development department. KVV Satyanarayana is posted as special secretary to finance department.
 
 
