NEW DELHI: One Army soldier and a nine-year-old girl were killed on Monday as Pakistani troops shelled areas along the   ( ) in Kashmir, even as India highlighted that all ceasefire violations thus far have been initiated by the Pakistani army.

 In this latest violation, Naik Muddasar Ahmed from Jammu and Kashmir's Tral dstrict lost his life in Pakistani firing in the Rajouri sector.
 
 This   occurred even as the directors general of military operations (DGMO) from both countries spoke on Monday at the request of the Pakistani army. 
 
 At the meeting,   alleged that the   is targeting its troops which recently resulted in the death of four of its soldiers in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.
  
 The Army, though, set the record straight, saying all ceasefire violations have been initiated by the Pakistani army and added that there is an "increasing trend of infiltration of terrorists along the LoC, with active support of the  's forward posts."
 
 Responding further to Pakistan's allegation, the Indian DGMO highlighted that when ceasefire violations are initiated by the Pakistani army, the Indian Army "reserved the right to retaliate appropriately".
 
  The Indian Army "is sincere in maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LoC", said its DGMO.
 
 The Pakistan army on Monday again violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Poonch's Balakote and Rajouri's Manjakote and Bhimber Gali sector, reported ANI.
 
 The Indian Army is strongly retaliating to these constant violations.
 
 In June alone, there have been 23 ceasefire violations by Pakistan.
 
 On July 12, two soldiers were killed after Pakistan violated the ceasefire in Kupwara sector of Jammu and Kashmir. On July 9, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked and indiscriminate firing of small arms, automatics and mortars in J&K's Poonch sector along the LoC. 
 
 On June 29, two Indian Army jawans were injured when the Pakistani troops initiated firing along the LOC in Poonch. And on June 26, the Pakistani Army fired small arms and shelled mortars along the LoC in the Bhimbher Gali sector of Rajouri.
 
 
 
 
 
