BATHINDA: Agriculture implement manufacturers in the state have been hit hard as Punjab government has   of new combine harvesters following the directions from NGT, which asked northern states to take measures against burning of   in fields.

 The sale of combine harvesters has come to a grinding halt after the state agriculture and transport departments in January 2017 directed the combine manufacturers to add ‘straw management system’ (SMS) to the harvesters to cut the stubble into small pieces which may not be burnt.
 
 With that, nearly 500 combine harvesters are lying with various manufacturers despite the fact that the harvest season is about to start in a few days. The combine manufacturers on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to allow them to sell their machines till May 31. Combines harvesters are manufactured mainly at Handiaya near Barnala, Nabha, Malerkotla, Bhadson and Moga in Punjab.
 
 One combine harvester was worth nearly Rs 18 lakh and adding the   system would raise the cost by another Rs 1-1.25 lakh and also decrease the efficiency of the machines, claimed the manufacturers. The manufacturers said the combine harvesters worth Rs 90-95 crore were dumped with 100 manufactures in Punjab.
 
 All India Combine Manufacturers Association general secretary Amar Singh said, “A meeting was called by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, and state agriculture and transport departments on February 7 where we were directed to fit SMS to the machines. We told the authorities that the design of the combine was approved by Northern Region Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute, Hisar. The changes in the combine harvesters again will have to be approved by the institute. We also gave our confirmation to add SMS to the machines after the wheat harvest season ends on May 31. The SMS will decrease the efficiency of the combine harvesters and lead to more fuel consumption.”
 
 Balkar Singh, marketing head of a Handiaya-based agricultural implements manufacturing firm, said the authorities did not give them any time and stopped issuing temporary registration numbers without which the machines could not be taken on the roads. “The banks stopped approving loans and thus the machines are lying with us. It has led to nearly 30% losses in the business because of that coupled with the lean patch due to demonetisation of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes,” he said.
 
 State transport commissioner Tanu Kashyap said, “The orders were issued to stop registration of combine harvesters that don’t have an SMS device, but the decision is under review.”
 
 Punjab farm department director Balwinder Singh Sidhu said, “The government is taking up the matter and soon a decision will be taken to resolve the issue.”
 
