CHENNAI: As any conservationist will tell you, the sparrow, a wild bird that was once at home in  , has to be protected. As a step towards ensuring the bird is not completely lost Nasik-based Nature Forever Society, began a three-day 'Great  ' across the country to provide an estimate of the bird's population. 

 Data on species is crucial to conservation, says  , founder-president of the society, which is involved in creating awareness about protecting sparrows for a few years now. "There is no data available on sparrow populations in the country. Without the data efforts for conservation of the species will not yield results. The society began the count on Saturday," he said. "The idea is to count sparrows to help in their conservation, including distribution data and year-to-year changes."
 
 The sparrow count is to list not just sparrows, but also all other bird species seen at a particular location over a period of 15 minutes or more. Then the recorded data about birds has to be uploaded in the eBird platform. This can be repeated as often as is possible at any time during the three days of the count, he said. In 2002, sparrows were included in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species in the UK and since 2010, March 20 has been adopted as World Sparrow Day. Dilawar says hundreds of people have contributed to the sparrow count. "The aim of the count is to document the population and distribution of 24 different species of sparrows found across the world. While everyone has heard about house sparrows, only a few know that we have five species of sparrows - the Sind, Spanish, Russet and Eurasian tree sparrow," he said.
 
 In Chennai, where the sparrow population has steadily declined, many conservationists are working to bring back sparrows to residential areas. Numbers depleted mainly due to change in housing design. Independent houses earlier provided space for nests of these feathered friends of ours; their numbers dipped with the rise in apartment complexes.
 
 In Besant Nagar,   regularly sets up nest boxes in houses where residents agree to provide feed and water to the little birds. Due to her efforts, house sparrow numbers have increased considerably, especially along the Elliot's Beach stretch. 
 
