Puducherry: Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research ( ), which established a centre for multidisciplinary robot-assisted minimal access surgery at a cost of Rs 32.67 crore, successfully performed its maiden  . A team of doctors from the institute, guided by expert robotic urologist and consultant urological surgeon N Ragavan, performed two cases of robotic pyeloplasty, a complex surgery to clear blocks in the ureter (the tube connecting the kidney and the urinary bladder) on Thursday.

 “Each surgical procedure lasted about two and a half hours. The patients have made rapid recovery,” said Jipmer director S C Parija.
 
 Explaining the procedure, Parija said the surgeon sits in a surgical console like a pilot in a cockpit and operates the four arms of the surgical robot to perform the surgery inside the abdomen using minute instruments that pass through holes that measure roughly 1cm.
 
 “One arm of the robot controls a camera and the other three manipulate the instruments. The surgeon observes the entire procedure through a high definition three dimensional vision system. The surgeon gets a highly magnified three dimensional stereoscopic view through the robotic camera,” Parija said.
 
 The robotic system translates the surgeon’s movements into more precise micro-movements of the instruments. The jointed-wrist design of the robot exceeds the natural range of movement of the human hand and refines the surgeon’s movements. These features make the surgical dissection and suturing more precise and help the surgeons to perform complex surgeries with great precision through keyhole incisions, said Parija while outlining the advantages of robotic surgery.
 
 Robotic surgical system facilitates performing many minimally invasive surgical procedures with precision resulting in less blood loss, lower postoperative pain, faster recovery and minimal scars. “It is a substantial advancement over cumbersome and tedious laparoscopic surgery that requires intensive training,” he said.
 
 Jipmer had procured the latest surgical robot system at a cost of Rs 28.8 crore from a United States-based firm.
 
 
