It was a full house at Shilpa Kala Vedika when   presented her dance ballet   along with her troupe on Sunday. Padmaja played the Kakatiya warrior queen Rudhramadevi in the ballet, which swayed away from the traditional Kuchipudi and incorporated the forgotten bhangimas of yore apart from elements of  ,  , Kanduka nrutyam,   and  .
“I have tried to revive the dance form that existed 1,400 years ago in Kakatiya dynasty and hence the name Kakatiyam. The essence and history of Telangana is imbibed in it,” says Padmaja, who had been working on Kakatiyam for the last three years. “Dr Pappu Venugopala Rao who translated Jayasenapati’s   in English gifted me the book. It filled me with the urge to revive the forgotten dance form which reflect the essence of Telangana. I spent six months researching on the subject; I studied the sculptures of the Thousand Pillar Temple, Ramappa Temple, Warrangal Fort and around 50 other temples with a team of archaeologists.” 
 Talking about what makes Kakatiyam unique, Padmaja says, “There is little of nrittya and more of nritta in it. Abhinaya and bhava which are essential in nrittya are absent in nritta. The salient concepts discussed in the book such as Perini, Bhramari,  , Kolattam and Lasyangamu were incorporated into the ballet.” 
 Perini, revived by Nataraja Ramakrishna a few years ago is a vigorous dance, danced to drum beats. Bhramari is a whirling dance. Kandukanrutyam is a ‘chendaata dance’, where the dancers use a ball/prop. Kolattam is a Telangana folk dance with sticks, similar to dandia while Lasyangalu or lasya tandavam which was showcased, is an elegant blend of Parvati’s lasya and Shiva’s tandava. “In my ballet, I tried to stay true to most of these dance forms, while keeping in mind the ease of executing. For instance, there are 13 types of bhramari. I showcased all, except siro bhramari and hastha bhramari that were too difficult to execute. I also added some karanas I picked up from the wall sculptures,” explains Padmaja.
 
 
