DEHRADUN: Residents of Mori block, comprising 92 villages of Purola constituency in Uttarkashi, among Uttarakhand’s remotest seats, have come up with an ingenious way to decide their candidates. On the lines of US elections, they went through a two-month exercise where a 26-member core committee picked a candidate from a shortlist of 15.

 After interviews and reviews of aspirants’ backgrounds, Durgeshwar Lal, 32, was declared the people’s candidate from Purola.
 
 Soon after, residents of 42 villages from Purola block backed Lal, making him a formidable force. The constituency has three blocks — Mori, Naugaon and Purola. Mori residents said their   and BJP MLAs had failed them. The constituency has dozens of villages that don’t have roads, access to hospitals, decent schools. Mobile connectivity is poor.
 
 While BJP’s Malchand won this reserved (SC) seat in 2002 and 2012, the Congress’s Rajesh Juwantha represented it in 2007. Mori residents allege they both worked only for themselves.
 
 So, this time, heads of 92 Mori villages formed a 26-member panel to fi nd a “non-controversial” candidate. Rajendra Singh Rawat, a resident of Thalli village said, “Over 16 years since the state was formed, conditions here haven’t changed. People are forgotten after elections. This must change.”
 
 Others in the shortlist were then made to pledge in front of local deities that they’d support Lal.
 
 Durgeshwar Lal has a clean image with no political links. He works in Delhi but has been associated with social welfare here. The core committee unanimously picked him,” said Rawat.
 
 Durgeshwar Lal filed his nomination papers as an Independent. His rallies have been generating response.
 
 He’s pitted against BJP’s Malchand, the Congress’s Rajkumar and the BSP’S Ram Lal. “I work in Delhi as a senior marketing manager with a private fi rm. I’ve remained connected to my roots at Mori,” said Durgeshwar Lal of Reksa village. “People have high expectations from me. If elected, I’ll ensure this area’s problems are solved.”
 
 Lal has Rs 50,000 cash in hand and an equal amount in his bank. He doesn’t own a car or land. “I’m assuring people I’ll try my best to get hospitals and colleges built in Purola, besides ensuring roads and mobile connectivity,” he said. Voters of Purola and Mori blocks make up over two-thirds of the 67,000-plus electorate here.
 
 
