MUMBAI: Just 12 hours after Bollywood producer-director   lodged a complaint about receiving repeated calls for ransom, the city crime branch's anti-extortion cell arrested a jobless 24-year-old man from Lucknow for the crime on Thursday.

 The accused, Sandeep Sahu, posed as underworld gangster   and repeatedly threatened to kill Bhatt's wife Soni Razdan and their actor daughter   if the veteran filmmaker failed to pay up Rs 50 lakh. In one of the text messages, Sahu had asked Bhatt to deposit the sum in a bank account with a Lucknow address through wire transfer. It gave cops their big lead who then took help from UP's special task force to track him down. The police team will bring Sahu to Mumbai on Friday on a transit remand. Sahu had planned the of fence to repay Rs 6 lakh he had borrowed from his relatives who had been pressurizing him to return the sum. He had taken the loan to set up a shoe shop in UP but was forced to shut it down on incurring losses.
 
 He came to Mumbai in the second half of 2016 with the hope of bagging roles in Hindi films but that dream did not materialize either.
 
 “Sahu said he came up with the plan when his relatives began to harass him for money upon his return to Lucknow three months ago, after he failed to land a job in the film industry . He thought of targeting some big film director. After getting hold of Bhatt's contact details, he impersonated gangster Babloo Srivastava, who was once underworld don Dawood's aide and is currently lodged in jail,“ said an investigating officer.
 
 Bhatt received the first threat call on February 26, which he ignored. He initially thought it was a prank, but the caller made a few more calls and then texted and sent WhatsApp messages telling him not to take his threats lightly . One of the texts read: “If you fail to do so, I will fire several rounds of bullets into your daughter Alia.“ In the complaint, Bhatt said, “I ignored the first call. Later as he kept calling me repeatedly , I switched off my mobile phone.So he sent a series of text messages demanding the ransom amount and also threatened to kill my daughter.“
 
 A Juhu police officer said, “Bhatt received at least four to five calls and five text messages demanding the ransom amount. The accused also threatened to kill his daughter and wife if he approached cops.“ Based on the complaint filed on February 27, Mumbai crime branch got in touch with the UP STF. The case was registered around 8pm on Wednesday with Juhu police.
 
 Joint commissioner of police (crime)   formed a team comprising additional commissioner of police K M M Prasanna, DCP Vinaykumar Rathod, anti-extortion cell senior inspector Vinayak Vast, assistant inspectors Arvind Pawar and Santosh Natkar, and constables Subhash Choudhari, Amol Todkar, Salunke and Vibhute.
 
 The team tracked down Sahu's location and with UP STF's help arrested him in Lucknow. “Sahu said he planned to earn fast money to clear his debt. He lived in Andheri (West) before returning to his hometown in Lucknow,“ said investigators. When TOI contacted him, Bhatt asked the reporter to get in touch with the police for details. On Thurday he tweeted @MaheshNBhatt: “A bolt from the blue in the form of an extortion call & threat to my family was nipped in the bud by the MH & UP police in tandem. Gratitude!“ Sahu has been booked under Section 387 of IPC for causing a person to fear death or grievous hurt, in order to commit the crime of extortion.
 
