NOIDA: The fresh guidelines issued by the government for   enrolment has put the entire process in a limbo in  . Many enrolment agencies, hired by the ‘registrars’ for undertaking demographic and biometric data collection, have shut down after the government asked them to shift their operations to premises of government offices.

 The authority which issues the Aadhaar number is UIDAI ( ), a government agency. The UIDAI has made some banks as its ‘registrars’ for the purpose of enrolling people for the UID number. These banks have further partnered with third-party agencies for the job.
 
 According to local operators in Noida, the IDs of at least 60% operators at these agencies are shut since July 1. The applicants are often sent back saying that the server would become functional only after a few days.
 
 On June 20, the UIDAI had issued a direction saying that the agencies would have to shift to either government or municipal premises by August 31. 
 
 “My ID has been blocked since July 1. Whenever I ask my company when it would be unblocked so that I can start enrolling people, they evade the question. However, I was asked to fill certain forms or update details like mobile number, etc. There are rumours that the government wants only public sector agenices to do the enrolment process and withdraw the same from private agencies,” said an operator who worked at an Aadhaar card centre in Sector 26.
 
 While earlier there were nearly 50 such centres in Noida alone, the number has now come down to 31.
 
 However, the agencies said that there is no such direction from the government on this account.
 
 “The move follows a Supreme Court observation showing concern on the security of personal data. Following this, some agencies have been blacklisted while others have backed out on their own from the enrolment process as they felt that they could not abide by the stricter norms. This will help weed out those operators who were indulging in data leakage, overcharging, etc,” said a senior manager of Karvy Computershare Private Limited, one of the agencies authorised to enroll citizens for Aadhaar.
 
 While upholding the government’s decision to link Aadhaar card to PAN card, the Supreme Court on June 9 also asked the government to formulate a scheme to prevent leakage of personal details, a concern raised by civil society from time to time.
 
 Another agency operator told TOI that they have already stopped operations of their Aadhaar card centre in Noida and have shifted to primary schools where they have been directed to hold camps for schoolchildren.
 
 “We have started enrolment camps in Chotpur, Behlolpur, Mamura etc. The other centres have been shut as we cannot operate there as per the terms of the government. We will operate from our head office in Sector 63 while our camps are being held at primary schools in villages,” Sayeed Asim Ali, project manager, Make India Smart Private Limited said. 
 
 
