DEHRADUN:  , member of   and crusader has accused education minister Mantri Prasad Naithani for conniving to open a liquor factor in   of Devprayag where people were allegedly deceived into parting with their land for mineral factory initially. He also dragged the state government for ignoring the religious significance of Devprayag while issuing a government order in this regard, ignoring the fact that just few months before, high court Nainital gave directions to prohibit sale and consumption of liquor in the religiously significant cities, Haridwar, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.
 
 “It was last year, Naithani, impressed upon the people of Dadwa village, which comes under his constituency, to give their land for acquisition to open a mineral factory in the village . People too readily agreed and gave more than four hectare and the process is still continuing in the hope that the factory would give employment to the local people,” he said adding that people were taken aback when government order was issued in October last year to open a   instead. “People of Dadwa and surrounding villages convened a maha panchayat and passed the resolution to protest against this move vehemently. That time, Naithani too committed through lip service that he would not allow the liquor factory in the village.”
 
 He said, it was quite recently, the chief minister too gave statement to the media persons reiterating his stance of establishing the liquor factory village. He said, people are quite angry over Naithani’s inertia to take concrete action in this matter.
  
 Village Pradhan Sohan Singh Panwar said that it was ironical that the government is thinking of setting up a liquor factory in religious place like Devprayag which the government has been stressing on developing on the lines of other four dhams.
 
  “In our view the state government is offending both high court and Supreme Court also. High court has already given its order to prohibit sale and consumption of liquor in other Char Dham towns along with Haridwar, while Supreme Court has ordered to remove liquor shops from the highway and, this factory is not much far away from the highway either in this village. Not only this, the women in the hill regions have been agitating against opening liquor outlets and factories in the villages for long,” he said.
 
 He said, they would continue to protest against Naithani and the state government on this move.
 
