BHATINDA: Though the   has announced the polling date, neither incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal nor the Congress have announced candidates from high-profile assembly constituencies of Lambi and Jalalabad, represented in state assembly by Punjab chief minister   and his son deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. On the other hand,   (AAP) has announced its candidates for both constituencies.

 SAD has so far declared names of 89 candidates, out of 94 it’s going to contest in alliance with BJP. The saffron party is going to fight on 23 seats of the remaining 117 in the state. Lambi and Jalalabad are among the only five seats that Akalis have not put up its nominees at.
 
 The Congress has declared 77 candidates and is yet to decide on remaining 40. AAP has announced candidates on 107 seats and fielded Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann from Jalalabad and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh from Lambi. Bhagwant has been campaigning in Jalalabad for over a month now.
 
 “We are waiting both SAD and the Congress to announce their candidates. We expect a tough competition this time due to AAP concentrating on the constituency that is presumed to be Akali Dal stronghold,” said a Lambi resident Darshan Singh.
 
 Badal has represented Lambi in the last four elections. He won consecutively in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012 from here. Sukhbir has successfully contested two elections from Jalalabad constituency in 2009 byelection and 2012.
 
 Political analysts said SAD’s Ferozepur MP Sher Singh Ghubaya, who is reportedly annoyed with his party, had made the calculations complicated and Akali Dal was looking at ways to avoid the possible political damage due to that. Ghubaya’s son   and brother   had joined the Congress on December 21.
 
 When contacted, Mann told TOI, “It is pitiable that both Badals, who control SAD as the ‘son and dad’ party, are so fearful that they are not coming forward and announcing their candidature from these traditional seats. We are eagerly waiting for the announcement so that we could deliver them crushing defeat in their strongholds.”
 
 SAD spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “There is no second thought on the names of Badal and Sukhbir on contesting from Lambi and Jalalabad. The ticket of party president is announced in the end to give him time to visit other constituencies. He would concentrate at his own seat towards the end.”
 
 A senior Congress leader on the condition of anonymity said the party was watching the development and would announce its candidates for both constituencies after going through certain factors.
 
