PATNA: JD(U) led by chief minister   on Monday expressed solidarity with RJD chief Lalu Prasad for the first time after the CBI raids on his premises on Friday. The CBI has also named Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi and their son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the FIR lodged in an alleged corruption case.
 
  Former JD(U) president  , who will represent the party at the opposition parties’ meeting called by Congress on Tuesday in Delhi, said the CBI action against Lalu’s family was an attempt to jeopardize the opposition’s efforts for a nationwide alliance against BJP and RJD chief was being victimized by the   government at the Centre. He also said the JD(U)-RJD alliance was intact.
  
  “The action (by CBI, ED and   department) on Lalu family is to hinder the move for a nationwide alliance of opposition parties, but they would not succeed. Both JD(U) and RJD are holding their meetings in Bihar to decide the future course of action,” Sharad said in Delhi.
  
  Sources said the main agenda of the opposition parties meeting on Tuesday has been fixed as per the recent call by CM Nitish for “alternative narratives” rather than “reactionary politics” against BJP. The Delhi meeting is likely to discuss farmers’ suicide, recent incidents of mob lynching and growing unemployment issues in the country besides the opposition nominee for the Vice-President’s post.
  
  Though Congress vice-president   was keen to meet Nitish, the Bihar CM has decided to stay in Patna and meet his party legislators and district presidents on Tuesday itself. He is sending Sharad as his emissary at the meeting.
  
  “Sharad ji will participate in the meeting of opposition parties on Tuesday,” JD(U)’s secretary general K C Tyagi told TOI.
  
  After breaking ranks with a 17-member bloc of the opposition parties by supporting NDA’s presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind, JD(U) had said it was a one-off decision. After senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad’s criticism and a war of words on his support to Kovind, Nitish on July 2 had termed Congress as the “weakest link” in the opposition.
  
  Azad, later on, said Nitish was with Congress and the party expected his support to the opposition nominee for the Vice- President’s post.
