NEW DELHI:   in Bawana has got a new contraption in the otherwise minimally furnished dispensary—a sanitary napkin dispenser. One just has to insert a Rs 5 coin into the vending machine and pop comes out a napkin. 

 The machine, sponsored by ONGC and set up by  , an NGO, is among the first at a Delhi University college in a rural area. It costs Rs 25,000, and has 200 pads in the stock and another 36 on the dispensing wheel. 
 
 While the cost of refills would have to be borne by the college, the machine itself is a step towards making female hygiene accessible to women on the fringes of the capital. 
 
 Neha Manvi, a third-year student completing her bachelors in social work in the college, travels daily from Bahadurgarh in Haryana, which takes her a little over an hour. Sanitary emergencies in the college mean a class-to-class search for a spare napkin, or worse, a 500-metre walk to the nearest medical store outside the college. “There too we have to buy a packet when the need is just for one,” she said. 
 
 The dispenser has brought relief to Manvi and others in her class. 
 
 Most girls in the college used to carry a pad or two in the bag. But at times, they might need to use up these. “Going out to the medical store is not feasible in such situations because your clothes are stained and it gets uncomfortable to walk that far. We appreciate this effort by the college because it makes life much easier,” said S Eeshwarna, another final-year student. 
 
 The college has also planned a series of workshops on women’s hygiene, especially for those who come from the nearby slums. 
 
 “We want to start a conversation on the subject because it is still a taboo for a lot of girls. Bad hygiene can also lead to cervical cancer, and we want our students to be aware of their own bodies,” said Mamta Sharma, principal of the college. “Only yesterday we had a workshop, and I was happily surprised to see so many girls come forward and talk about their issues and experiences,” she added.
 
 Sharma plans to take the movement to the neighbouring villages and slums with the help of NSS. “We have adopted a part of Bawana village and plan to put up one such machine in a prominent and accessible place,” he said. 
 
