KOCHI: The city has never witnessed an oil spill off its coast and the authorities are of the view that they have taken sufficient precautions while transferring crude, diesel, petrol, naphtha and furnace oil.

 “There is always an element of risk. Accidents can happen anytime.   may occur from ships either accidentally or due to illegal operational discharges. Oil spills may also be caused by accidental discharges from petroleum terminals and facilities and the offshore petroleum exploration and production industry," said a senior official of  . There are also operational issues like navigational hazards, the weather and shipping density .
 
 He said that CPT follows a standard procedure prescribed by the international safety guide for oil tankers and terminals (ISGOTT). This guide has recommendations for tanker and terminal personnel on the safe carriage and handling of crude oil and petroleum products on tankers and at terminals.
 
 Tankers carrying crude oil are berthed at the offshore single point mooring (SPM) facility. An SPM is a floating buoy in the sea connected with a pipeline that enables large crude carriers to discharge their cargo without coming to the port jetty. “This minimises the risk of oil spill near the coast. However, tankers carrying diesel, petrol, and naphtha and furnace oil enter the port," said the official. As per the national oil spill disaster contingency plan, every port facility and oil installation should conduct mock drills and exercises once in three months. Once in every six months there should be an area or regional exercise and once a year a national level pollution response exercise and mobilisation of stakeholder resources have to be conducted.
 
 The Indian   is designated as the co-ordinating authority for combating oil spills and undertaking oil spill prevention and control in Indian waters.
 
 “The Coast Guard is responsible if the oil spill happens in the seas and oceans. In case of Kochi, if an oil spill i reported in the shipping channel then the CPT has to under take tier one response. They are supposed to have equipment like river booms to contain oil spill. The Coast Guard is neither mandated nor equipped to handle oil spill in internal waters. However, if there is a need the Coast Guard would chip in to assist CPT with available resources," said Commander Sridhar Warrier, the Indian Navy PRO When oil spill is reported in seas the Coast Guard bring in ocean booms, barges for mopping up the spill, and other equipment and response vessels. The CPT's fire services and marine staff will be given for support.
 
 “The oil companies too will cooperate with the Coast Guard and CPT for containing oil spill. We also associate with these organisations for conducting mock drills," said spokesperson for BPCL Kochi Refinery.
 
