CHENNAI: For long, the lack of radiologists in rural state-run hospitals has led to long queues, referrals to  , and even needless fatalities. But analysis by the health department shows the problem isn’t a shortage of doctors, but a poor distribution of them.

 With more than 50 scan centres, the state on an average does over 2,500 scans a day, but the number of scans done post 3pm, when duty hours for government doctors end, slips to 0-30%. In some centres, despite the demand, the number of scans done even during the day is abysmal. So, when the health department upgrades MRIs, CTs and other high-end scans this year, it will partner with technology companies instead of employing more radiologists. “Teleradiology seems like the easiest solution to the problem,” said   Medical Services Corporation MD P Umanath.
 
 Unlike many other specialities, radiologists don’t need to see patients physically. So, scans taken by technicians will be uploaded on the cloud when a radiologist isn’t available locally. 
 
 Duty doctors will flag emergencies to help doctors identify priorities from the list of scans. Government radiologists from across the state will be able to access the scans on the cloud for interpretation. Doctors from other centres will be paid for the reports they upload either through the insurance or from the state’s kitty.
 
 The corporation, which is in charge of purchase and maintenance of all medical equipment for the state hospitals, has called for bids for setting up teleradiology services in all government hospitals. The corporation will accept bids till August 1 and officials are hoping to start work by mid-August. 
 
 Parts of the state, especially cities like Chennai and Coimbatore, have lots of doctors but many rural areas, and less populous cities, experience a  . “This directly affects the quality of healthcare, but it may be impossible for us to alter this distribution due to various factors including the comforts of living in cities.
 
 Also, in many medical colleges, we post more radiologists so we can have PG seats,” said health minister C  . “The technology embrace is planned to ensure that all scan reports are available within one hour. In case of emergencies, the reports will be available earlier than that,” he added.
 
 The corporation is hoping that its low-cost diagnostic services will also benefit patients seeking care at private hospitals. The government charges Rs 500 for MRI and Rs 3000 for  
 
