NEW DELHI: The attention of political circles in Delhi and Bihar is focussed on a meeting of JD(U) legislators and organisation scheduled for Tuesday with Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar likely to break his silence on corruption cases dogging his ally and RJD boss Lalu Prasad and his family . Tensions have been running high in the alliance since CBI registered an FIR against Lalu, his wife Rabri Devi and son Tejashwi Yadav who is deputy CM in the Bihar government. Opposition BJP has mounted pressure on Kumar to sack Tejashwi and the CM's comments can have a bearing on the alliance with RJD and Congress.

 With RJD on Monday categorically ruling out Te jashwi Yadav's resignation, the ball is in Kumar's court.The CM could outline a strong line upholding probity in public life and signal his views on the controversy kicked up by the CBI case that relates to manipulation of railway hotel contracts and a land deal in Patna when Lalu was railway minister in the UPA government. JD(U) national general secretary Sanjay Jha told TOI, “There can be no compromise on principles the party represents and its image in public.The chief minister's views on issues of financial probity are well known. He has stood for transparency and accountability in governance.“
 
 The rising friction between JD(U) and RJD could also cast a shadow over the meeting of opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday.Though JD(U) is likely to be represented, the CBI case as well as recent allegations about transfer of properties to Lalu's kin threatens to weaken opposition unity already hit by Kumar's support to NDA presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 The BJP state chief Nityanand Rai meanwhile said the party could offer support to Nitish Kumar from the outside.“The final decision of course will be that of the central leadership,“ said Rai. He has offered such support earlier, but the timing of the remarks ahead of the JD(U) meet is significant.
 
 Though RJD leaders chose to downplay differences with Kumar and claimed that Lalu had spoken to the CM, the party’s position that their is no case against Tejashwi makes it clear that the deputy CM is not quitting just yet. JD(U) leaders feel that without Tejashwi stepping down, a middle ground will prove elusive. 
 
 The alliance may not, however, snap overnight. If Kumar spells out his stance clearly, the differences will widen and further developments in either the CBI case or enforcement directorate probe into shell companies and properties acquired by Lalu’s daughter Misha Bharti and her husband Shailesh could provide a further trigger. 
 
 JD(U) sources, in fact, feel that Tejashwi’s continuance in the ministry is becoming increasingly untenable. In the light in which the current situation is developing, the alliance might remain in turmoil if RJD doesn’t respond to signals from Kumar who had removed three ministers in the past after cases were registered against them. Jitan Ram Manjhi, Ramdhar Singh and RN Singh had been removed. Manjhi has now attacked Kumar alleging that action against him was taken as he was a Dalit but the Bihar chief minister did not have the gumption to act against Lalu Prasad’s sons. 
 
 “Message to the RJD is loud and clear that Nitishji can’t run the government if people facing corruption allegations are there in the ministry,” said a senior JD(U) functionary as he claimed that RJD should have tried a way out but the party rallies behind the Lalu Prasad family and they have refused to accept removal of Tejashwi and Tej Pratap. 
 
 The JD(U) camp is unhappy at RJD as the latter has not been able to answer questions raised by enforcement agencies about the properties of the Lalu Prasad family. “Prasad and his family should have countered the allegations legally and technically. But there has been only political barbs and a strong plea backed by legal papers is missing so far,” a JD(U) leader said. 
 
 JD(U) sources said RJD had an option to agree to removal of Tejashwi until a probe was completed and one of the senior leaders like Abdul Bari Siddiqui should have been promoted in rank.
 
