Traditionally,   has all been about maintaining a clean diet while diligently training at the gym. But if you’re a diehard foodie who loves all things carbs, every once in a while, it’s fair game to indulge in a cheat meal, after a strenuous exercise session. Not many know that a   crust   with healthy toppings can actually be a good post-workout snack. Consumption of the right amount of carbohydrates and proteins after a gym session can speed muscle recovery and help your body refuel. You need to eat your pizza within two hours of finishing a   to stimulate muscle synthesis and repair. That’s why fitness experts have come out with the ‘eat a whole pizza’ post exercising trend. Many gyms globally are also offering free pizzas to their members!

 Luckily, to justify it, you needn’t run a marathon or undergo an extreme fitness regime. You just need to exercise right. Dr Amrapali Patil, weight management expert, shares,“The pizza workout is designed is such a way that it torches all extra calories. This exercise burns anywhere from 1,200 to 1,500 calories per session (one has to factor in one’s weight to determine the exact amount of calories burnt). But the workout requires super stamina and isn’t for the fainthearted.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A slice of pizza provides 36 gms of carbohydrates and 12 gms of protein, so the workout has to do enough justice to do away with all the extra lard. It’s better to opt for a thin crust option (whole wheat or pita instead of refined white flour) with healthy toppings such as grilled chicken breast, mushrooms, onions, tomatoes, capsicums, olives. Avoid fatty and unhealthy toppings like pepperoni, which has 12 gms of fat per ounce and cheese, butter, extra sauces etc.
 
 
 This workout demands a fantastic stamina. A person who is into regular fitness-related activities should ideally try it. Says Dr Patil, “The workout is strenuous and can cause intense fatigue and tiredness if one is not adequately prepared from the nutrition and hydration point of view. It can also cause dizziness due to the rapid sets and lead to post-workout muscle tears if one has not stretched enough before starting out. Drink enough amount of water to stay hydrated, both pre and post the workout.” Also, while one can justify a pizza workout swearing by all the nutrients that the snack might provide — calcium, magnesium, proteins, iron — at the end of the day, a cheat meal is a cheat meal. So it’s an indulgence to try once in a while!
 
 
