TRICHY:   (Tamil Nadu and Puduchery) has said that caste atrocity was behind the murder of a 22-year-old dalit youth at   near Mannachanallur on July 8. 

 The commission led by director   met the parents of   alias Kathiresan, the autorickshaw driver who was beaten to death, at Thiruppaigneeli a week after the incident. The crime was allegedly committed by a gang including V Thangarasu, 57 and his two sons T Suresh, 37 and T Baskar, 30 of the same village in the wee hours. 
 
 “Our inquiry with his parents showed that the gang had beaten him to death citing his live-in relationship with a woman belonging to the other caste. Even though the damaging of the water pipelines was said to be the trigger for the murder, there was also a grudge against him for living with a girl belonging to another caste in the same village,” Mathiazhagan told TOI. 
 
 After the inquiry, the commission met the deputy superintendent of police and sought urgent steps to arrest the gang involved in the murder. Kathir was found murdered with his face partially mutilated at the coconut farm on Pulivalam road. On suspicion that he was behind the frequent damage of the pipeline on their farm, the gang including the trio went to his house and asked him to come with them to the police station on July 8. They dragged him out of the house, took him to the farm and beat him to death, police said. Thangarasu and his sons were arrested after a case was registered against them. 
 
 The commission has demanded proper compensation such as employment to an eligible person in his family, cultivable land and pension. The immediate victim compensation of Rs 4,12,500 was released by the state government to the parents of Kathir because the woman Nandini who belonged to another caste had not entered into legal wedlock with him. 
 
 “The marriage between them was not properly solemnised even though they were living together in a house after she was deserted by her first husband. So, she has not become the legal heir of Kathiresan,” said director Mathiyazhagan.
 
