When   made history by winning the State Award for Best Actor this year, the first person he thanked was his director, Rajeev Ravi, for casting him in the role of Ganga in Kammatipaadam. Indeed, it is not often that a ‘non-glamourous’ actor is given a role as important as the hero, much less a mainstream movie being made about such characters.   talks to us about his views on the matter. 

 
 
 I applaud it. There was a doubt in many minds that only a hero can be given the Best Actor award, not a character actor. But Vinayakan has been given the Best Actor award, nothing less. Often, even at the national level, only glamourised people are given such top awards. Our awards in Malayalam were on those lines in the recent years. But now the jury is taking bold decisions and giving awards for experimental films, like in the 80s. I specially applaud the award given to director Vidhu. Such awards are meant for encouraging filmmakers like her.
 
 
 
 
 
  Actually very few films come out about people from such sections of society. It’s imprinted in the minds of the viewers as well that the main characters in films should be mostly upper class and upper caste. To bring about a change, we should start changing the narratives we are fed on from school onwards. The problem is with popular perspective. And to take a film like Kammatipaadam to people wasn’t easy. The general public don’t watch offbeat films. But a film’s completion is when the common man watches it, not just the intellectuals and artists, I believe. If they don’t accept it, there is no point in making a film.
 
  However, now is a great phase for Malayalam cinema. Youngsters like Dileesh Pothan are doing good cinema. There is a fine balance of films; for every Pulimurugan, there is a Maheshinte Prathikaram.
 
 
 
 
 I’m lucky in that I’m someone who has an alternate profession, as a cinematographer. So I’m not much bothered about the outcome of a film. I just do my kind of cinema. I would like people to accept them. If they don’t I will feel sad but it won’t stop me from doing the films I want to do. I will never do a safe film.
 
 I have known Vinayakan since college, and we grew up in the same neighbourhood, the real life Kammatipaadam. He knew such a project was coming. We had been discussing this for long so it was no big surprise for him.
 
 
 
 
 Filmmaking is basically observation. My understanding is that a filmmaker should practice observation, not filmmaking. Where I grew up, I was always connected with the people around me. The characters in Kammatipaadam are all people I grew up seeing. You can live avoiding such sections of society. But they are also humans, living around us.
 
 
