AURANGABAD: A day after a truck carrying   tried to run over the   staffers who intercepted the heavy vehicle, the senior revenue authorities are planning to religiously carry out joint action along with the police department against the  .

 The incident has once again brought to fore the level of problems faced by the revenue staffers while trying to bring a check on the sand mafias.
 
 The incident took place within a month of district collector Nidhi Pande holding a joint meeting and issuing directives to the police and revenue officials to tighten the noose around the neck of sand mafias ruling the roads across the district. On Friday, the revenue department seized as many as eight trucks carrying illicit sand.
 
 The truck with registration number MH-21-X-3404 carrying illegally-procured sand was spotted by the flying squad on Saturday. When they tried to intercept it, the driver of the vehicle attempted to run over circle officer Abhay Sabde, Keshav Dakle and talathis Yogesh Pandit and Hasan Siddiqui.
 
 The revenue team led by Aurangabad sub-divisional officer  , who were soon joined by Satara area police team, chased the heavy vehicle for 20kms before catching it on   road. The suspect driver and the cleaner fleed from the spot after abandoning the vehicle.
 
 On inspection it was found that the accused driver unloaded the truck before abandoning it. Taking serious cognizance of the incident, the city police apart from registering a case for using criminal force to deter a government official from performing his official duty have also slapped him with sections of attempt to murder.
 
 Hadgal told TOI, “Along with the police force, we conduct joint actions frequently. At times due to the information received at a short notice, our squads rush without any police backup, exposing them to threats of sand mafias.”
 
 The officer said that following the incident, the revenue department is planning to increase the frequency of the drives carried out jointly against the sand mafias.
 
 He said, “Police is the only department that is on-duty round the clock. Roping them in each and every raid and drive is not possible, but we are seriously considering the plans to increase such drives.”
 
 Another revenue officer on the conditions of anonymity said, “The alleged proximity of the sand mafias with the police, gives them courage to directly take on the revenue department officials. There have been incidents where in information of surprise raids was leaked out, making us suspicious of our counterparts in police.” 
 
