LUCKNOW: Kaam nahi, karnaame bolte hain,“ PM  's counter-offensive against UP chief minister  's high-voltage campaign of “Kaam bolta hai“, worked wonders for the saffron outfit in the UP polls.

 The SP's road ahead now appears difficult; among its primary challenges are keeping the clan war in the Yadav family from re-erupting and addressing the resentment among senior members who have been defeated.
 
 The result can be seen as a verdict on the SP government, which was mired in controversies involving corruption, lawlessness and nepotism, and shows that the people were not taken in by the SP's attempt to hard-sell Akhilesh as a clean and development-oriented leader.
 
 The size of the BJP's victory demonstrates that the ground realities highlighted by it hurt the young CM: poor law and order, a free run to the `bhu' (land) mafias and preferential recruitment.UP's voters reposed faith in Modi's promise to end the “karobaar of bahubalis“ when BJP came to power.
 
 “The results show that the UP CM's good image was diluted by controversies related to land grabbing, nepotism in government recruitment and the impression of lawlessness that prevailed for a large part of his tenure. The party failed to convince voters,“ said a political analyst. It seems the SP's “thuggish“ image affected the party , and Akhilesh's laudable initiatives, such as the `ambulance sewa' and an emergency crime helpline, came too late for any meaningful impact.
 
 The SP narrative, like the one put forth by its Gorakhpur district chief, Prahlad Yadav, that “SaPa ne goondo ko kinara kar liya hai. Sab ab jail mein sarh rahe hain (SP has thrown anti-social ele ments into jail)“, failed to convince people.
 
 Even younger voters seem to have chosen Mod over the “UP ke ladke“ as Modi's aggressive pitch against the   government's al leged discrimination in recruitment processes res onated among them.
 
 The SP tried to counter BJP's promise to set up “anti-Romeo squads near colleges to ensure the safety of girls but  's reply that the BJP promise was an attempt to go after the freedom women enjoy in a college or university environment, and that the squads would become “anti Romeo-Juliet squads“ that harass couples, went unheeded. And BJP managed to cash in on the insecurity among young women due to poor law and order.
 
 The big and immediate challenge SP faces is the nomination of the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly .Apart from that, party insiders said the huge defeat may even revive the intrafamily struggle.
 
