Amravati: If there is one corporator who has been constantly winning his seat ever since the   Municipal Corporation held its first   in 1992, it is Vilas Mahadeorao Ingole. Seeking his sixth consecutive term, this former mayor and standing committee chief, who has been an excellent kabaddi player of his times and also head of Vidarbha Kabaddi Association, is confident again. He first won as   candidate, then as an Independent. His next two terms were on   candidature before he returned to Congress in 2012. A party unto himself, he wields so much influence over his Jawahar Gate-Budhwara prabhag that his defeat is utterly unthinkable for the voters, who trust him like anything. ToI speaks to him.

 Q. You are seeking the sixth term. How do you look at it?
 
 People of all caste, creed are strongly with me. Neither they nor I have let down each other hitherto. Developmental works I have done in the prabhag are more than any other prabhag of the civic body. My prabhag is replete with very old religious places and I have got them all renovated, concretized all roads, ensured adequate water supply and gave jobs to youths from all communities.
 
 Q. What major projects do you wish to undertake if you win?
 
 I wish to build theatres and competitive exam guidance centres laced with libraries in different parts of the prabhag. I also want to set up computer training institutes in Muslim areas. My prabhag is an ideal example of Hindu-Muslim unity. It is largely inhabited by sportspersons who look at me as their own man and support me. I have already opened gyms for them and want to open more. Green Gym is my concept which AMC has implemented in all prabhags.
 
 Q. AMC has always been dry of funds. You have been there for 25 years. Why, do you think, is this perennial fund crunch.
 
 Grants worth crores under different heads of AMC budget have not been released by the successive governments despite persuasion. If these are released, AMC will become number one municipal corporation in Vidarbha, financially. As the expenditure on establishment is more, government is not allowing AMC to recruit new staff. So, it is the collective responsibility of all parties to strive for strengthening AMC’s financial status. Local MLA needs to pay more attention towards this. I personally will pursue this issue.
 
 Q. It is alleged that a Golden Gang that gobbled up funds with fishy transactions existed in AMC during Congress-NCP rule.
 
 Ask this question to Chetan Pawar (NCP corporator), not me. I was never involved in those activities. Even when I was the chairman of Standing Committee, not a single case of corruption was alleged. It is true that being the President of AMC Karmachari Va Adhikari Sanghatana for last 20 years, I keep control over employees and officers. My role in the House has always been in the interest of people. I have never hurt anybody nor discriminated on caste grounds, which is why people support me so overwhelmingly.
 
 Q. What, according to you, are the major issues before the city?
 
 City’s traffic and parking need to be urgently improved. AMC needs to have its new administrative building. Garbage and drainage issues need to be addressed expeditiously. Things are in the pipeline. They need to be given shape. 
 
 Q. Do you think that Congress-NCP will retain its power in AMC? 
 
 The split between BJP and Shiv Sena will benefit Congress. But the picture will become clear only after the results.
 
 
