Chennai: Matrimony.com, which recently re-filed for an IPO worth Rs 500 crore with SEBI on May 8, is betting big on matchmaking and its newly-introduced marriage services that have raked in a revenue of Rs 292 crore and recorded a 20% growth in its enterprise revenue. Speaking to TOI, Murugavel Janakiraman, founder, speaks about the growth areas in their bouquet of services. Excerpts:

 What made you feel you are IPO-ready?
 
 We are a 17-year-old company and one of the very few consumer internet companies that are profitable – with a 43% profit. The time is ripe for going public and we will also be able to give a good exit to our current investors Mayfield, Bessemer and JPMorgan Asset Management. Our revenues are also at Rs 292.93 crore, compared to Rs 255.43 crore during the last fiscal. Besides, we are a clear market leader with the next listed company in the line being Jeevan Sathi, which recorded revenue of Rs 14.6 crore in FY 16-17.
 
 How promising do the newer facilities like marriage services look?
 
 We launched the services less than a year ago and we have registered close to 500 marriage halls, 100 photographers and related services. Although matchmaking services contribute to Rs 280 crore of the total revenue, marriage services is a fast-growing segment.
 
 Are there any changes in the way people perceive marriage?
 
 There have been few changes in customer behaviour. Data from the National Council of Applied Economic Research show that 95% of the marriages still happen within the community, which has led to 3.2 million profiles being added last year. However, the filtering is better with the introduction of our intelligent algorithm MIMA to keep best matches on the top. Taking historical preferences and data into account, the algorithm automatically weighs some matches more than others.
 
 With security being a major concern, how often do you have to beef up your cybersecurity and protect sensitive information?
 
 All information except the contact number is public and the phone numbers are encrypted. So far, there haves been no threats of the information has been compromised.
 
 
 
