Mangaluru: “If anyone can do it, we can also do it; if no one can do it, then we must do it.” This was the motto of  , for whom success followed as he dared and acted on his intuitions. 

 The son of Udupi was born into a family of modest means. Reading under the dim light of a kerosene lamp, Rao’s rise to the top post of Isro is in itself a formidable achievement, like the way he pioneered India’s satellite programme.
 
 Born at Adamaru near Padubidri, 25km from Udupi, to Lakshminarayana Acharya and Krishnaveni Amma, he schooled at Adamaru and Christian High School, Udupi.
 
 Rao’s father was a master cook and this income was barely enough to meet the needs of the family. Acharya sold his house at Moodanidambur and settled at Korangrapady in Udupi distict, about 3-4km apart. Rao reached Ballari when a catering assignment took Acharya to North Karnataka, and completed his college education. From there, the world opened up for the young man.
 
 Rao had once, during an interaction with students in Udupi, rued the electronic media hijacking the prime objective of India’s satellite programme to telecast astrological advice. “What’s happened to them? The objective of India’s space programme is to facilitate education and help medical technology reach every person in the country,” he had said.
 
 Rao was of the opinion that the next big breakthrough could come in the field of cosmology. “We still don’t know much about the Sun. We know that heat flows from hot to cold and never in the reverse order. Then how is it that 6,000 degrees become 2million degrees? I hope we’ll put a satellite in position 1.5 million km from Earth and study it,” he had said.
 
 Rao had visited Udupi thrice in the last decade. His last visit was to Poornaprajna College for an interaction with students and a felicitation.
 
 LAUNCH EXCITEMENT
 
 There are many happy moments. But of course the first satellite is like the first child. The first launch (Aryabhata) was a historic moment in my life from Kapustin Yar base. It was launched, but nobody knew what was happening. We waited for 40 minutes to get information. That was really an exciting moment.
 
 U R Rao, on his happiest moment
 
 
