DEHRADUN: In a relief to Doonites and tourists visiting here from Delhi, the New-Delhi Dehradun Shatabdi is likely to operate from Dehradun   as per its original schedule from Tuesday, ending a 36-day-long hiatus since the operation of many trains had been shifted to Haridwar for the   at  
 
  All those trains — whose operations were cancelled from Dehradun and shifted to Haridwar on April 17 — were to be resumed to their original schedule from May 23 from Dehradun, but it might take a few more days since the construction work is still underway.
  
  Railway officials told TOI that they were trying to ensure, if not all, some premier trains such as Shatabdi started operating as per its original schedule from Dehradun railway station from Tuesday.
  
  Pramod Kumar, divisional railway manager (DRM), Moradabad division, under whose jurisdiction the Dehradun railway station falls, told TOI: “The work should be completed well within time, but for safety reasons, the time-table of Dehradun-bound trains would be normalised after a few-days; may be by May 25 or 26. However, we are ensuring that Shatabdi starts operating from Dehradun as per its original schedule.”
  
  “Initially, the work was going on at its normal pace, but was intensified in the past 10 days. Railway team and labourers are working in tandem 24x7 to complete the pending work at the earliest,” added the DRM.
  
  Railway authorities said the construction work was required to ensure cleanliness at one of the main platforms. When TOI team visited the Dehradun railway station on Sunday, the work was going on in full-swing. Labourers told this reporter that they had been working day and night for the past 10 days to meet the deadline.
  “Over 90% of work is completed, while the rest of works should be over by May 22. Cement needs some time to set. Besides, there are safety precautions that need to be followed, which might delay trains’ operation for a few days, but by the end of the next week, all trains are likely to resume from here,” said a supervisor at the railway station.
  
  During this period, 16 Dehradun-bound trains are being operated from Haridwar, while other 22 trains are still operating from Dehradun.
  
  Travellers having a reservation in those 16 trains have to board their trains from Haridwar railway station. Similarly, those trains also terminate in Haridwar, causing inconvenience to Dehradun people who have to travel nearly 45 km by road to board a train.
