RANCHI: The kin of the   killed in an avalanche that had struck   of Jammu & Kashmir last week have protested the compensation amount offered by the  . However, sources said a proposal for enhancing the   has been pending before the government for years. 

 The Sainik Kalyan Nirdeshalay (SKN) had sent a proposal to the state government for increasing the compensation amount from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 15 lakh in 2011. Sources in the SKN said that the officers had sent a reminder to the government recently. 
 
 SKN director, Brigadier BG Pathak said that apart from the proposal to increase the amount of compensation the board has also recommended reservation in government jobs for the dependants of the soldiers. He said that since the government cannot exceed the 50% reservation limit the board has requested for reservation within the existing limit.
 
 Officials said that the government makes a budgetary provision for the amount fixed for compensation. The amount is paid following the orders of the deputy commissioner. While the army has different categories of compensation for soldiers killed on the borders, the state government gives uniform compensation to all soldiers who die on duty..
 
 However, there is no consistency in the payment of compensation. After the death of the soldiers some of the dependants get Rs 2 lakh as compensation while others get Rs 10 lakh. Sources said the compensation depends on the announcements made by chief ministers and the ministers on the spot.
 
 The SKN has received letters from the dependants requesting uniformity in the amount of compensation. In the latest case the family members of the soldiers killed in Batalik sector of Jammu & Kashmir have asked the state government to increase the compensation being paid to them. While chief minister Raghubar Das had announced a Rs 2 lakh as compensation - and then an additional sum of Rs 3 lakh to each family - the dependants demanded that government should provide employment to dependants besides facilitating quality education for their children.
 
 
