PATIALA: The re-employed faculty members have decided to move the   against the orders of Punjabi University, Patiala, to relieve them by February 28. The teachers’ body,   Reemployed Professors Association (PURPA) will soon file a petition in the court contesting what they are calling arm-twisting by the state government.

 The varsity had On Monday issued an order to let go more than 70 professors and associate professors as their rehiring after retirement had led to the state government releasing grant to the institution. The university was to be given Rs 50 crore by the state government to overcome the deep financial crisis it was facing. The state government, however, withheld an amount of Rs 13 crore of the total financial dole for “adhering to instructions issued in September 2016, regarding hiring retired teachers”.
 
 PURPA contended that the state government was trying to arm-twist the university authorities. “It is nothing less than trespassing on the autonomy of the university,” the association said. The teachers claimed that they had already got in touch with senior lawyers at Chandigarh and would be filing a petition against the arbitrary orders, which the university had been ‘forced’ to issue by the state finance department.
 
 PURPA said they had been re-appointed in accordance with the national policy drafted by the University Grants Commission (UGC), which was duly approved and adopted by all the universities, including the Punjabi University.
 
 They said the government was trying to dictate terms to the university in its day-to-day functioning, which had lowered the sanctity and dignity of the institution. The association also deplored the ‘wrongful and erroneous presentation’ of facts related to the salary being paid to them claiming that their annual salary bills were not more than Rs 5 crore, which was only a small part of the university budget.
 
 They claimed that the financial crisis faced had been created by the ‘massive’ reduction in the grants given to the university. The other faculty and non-teaching staff members had recently protested against the university for not paying their salaries for January.
 
 Meanwhile, there is panic amongst the PhD and MPhil scholars who are doing their research work under the rehired teachers.
 
 
