Networking during our college days is done for purely socializing purposes. However, with the passage of time, there is the rebellious awakening of the entrepreneur in us. This when we realize that networking is essential to climb the success ladder as well. If it is done strategically, networking can greatly help young entrepreneurs. Here are 5 networking secrets every young entrepreneur should know. 

 
 
 
 Many of us network rather vaguely. A chance meeting with a stranger might take him to our friend list. It is important to understand that merely increasing the number of people in our digital circle is not enough. We need to scrutinize on the kind of people we are interacting with and ensure that we are associating with the right ones. The end goal of networking should be to build strong connections with like-minded people who can help us grow.
 
 
 
 Being in touch with ex alumni and co-workers can yield positive results for your career. When you are looking for a job after leaving an old company, these contacts can help you get into the right places. Since they know that you are a credible source, they can recommend you into the key positions as well. 
 
 
 
 It actually pays to keep in touch with your network. Being responsive to calls and mails, and willing to help out others in times of a crisis is a feather added to your networking cap. It builds the trust factor in you and people become more open and willing to work with you. Hence it is important to network proactively. 
 
 
 
 We all have the habit of carrying a stack of business cards which we are ever willing to give out to people we interact with in a meeting. But do you know that collecting business cards will do you more good that giving them out to people? It is very essential to collect the business cards of people you meet. Effective networking involves stocking up on the business cards of the people you meet and making notes of how you can connect with them. 
 
 
 It is natural of people to enjoy hanging out with people they like. However, when it comes to networking, the trick is to connect with people who can help you grow and this means you have to venture out beyond this self-created zone of comfort. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
