GAYA: Kalchakra or the wheel of time, according to  , has got three dimensions – the ‘outer’ wheel of time, the ‘inner’ wheel of time and the ‘other’ wheel of time.

 The ‘outer wheel’ is the external world of the environment, and it is also called the procession of the external solar and lunar days. The ‘inner wheel’ is the human body, that is inner self, or earth surface. The inner channels, elements, and movements of the winds are set forth as the inner wheels of time. The third or the ‘other wheel’ establishes the linkage between good deeds and result of such deeds. Spiritual guidance plays a very important role in capturing the ‘other wheel of time’ and tailor the same to common good and happiness.
 
 While nothing much can be done about the outer and inner wheels of time, the ‘other’ wheel of time or the third dimension of Kalchakra can be controlled through rigorous training of the body and the mind. Acquisitions of feelings like selflessness, renunciation, compassion and altruism hold the key to self-realisation and infusion of Buddha traits in ordinary mortals of bone and flesh.
 
 It is for this reason that spiritual leader Dalai Lama   of the soul to make it in sync with Buddhist philosophy and traditions. As per details made available by the event organisers, Dalai Lama has so far conducted 33 Kalchakras over a span of 62 years.
 
 The first Kalchakra was held in Lhasa (Tibet) in May 1954. Besides different parts of India, such rituals have also been conducted in the US, Spain, Mongolia, Australia, Austria and Canada. The last Kalchakra was held in Leh (Ladakh) in July 2014.
 
 The 34th Kalchakra is being held in Bodh Gaya. This is for the fifth time that the rituals are being conducted in Bodh Gaya. The previous Kalchakras were held in Bodh Gaya in 1974, 1985, 2003 and 2012. Sources said this may be the last such event in Bodh Gaya. The rituals are rigorous in nature and entail fatigue and exhaustion. Only the Dalai Lama is eligible to perform the rituals and the spiritual leader, now in his eighties, had to abandon the prayer in 2002 in Bodh Gaya for health reasons.
 
