BENGALURU: The   has called the diary released by the   a “well-knit“ conspiracy by the Prime Minister's Office ( ) to defame the party and sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into it.

 “They (BJP) are in power. All agencies including CBI, Enforcement Directorate and income-tax department are under them. But why are they not straightaway taking action against us and instead indulging in making allegations? I dare them to order a CBI probe and get us all arrested,“   general secretary   told reporters after emerging from a marathon coordination committee meeting, purportedly to discuss Diarygate, in Bengaluru on Sunday.
 
 Singh also accused some Union ministers and state BJP leaders of being a part of the conspiracy by using central agencies to unsettle the four-year-old Congress government in Karnataka, in an election year. “If the BJP wants to believe their diary theory, they should answer why Narendra Modi did not resign as Gujarat CM when the Birla and Sahara diaries came to light,“ he said, alleging that the income-tax department had, under pressure from the PMO, played an “active role“ in the creation of a diary. AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh dubbed the diary “fake'' and used for disseminating false information to the media. 
 
 He said there is no point in anyone resigning since Congress MLC K Govindraj, who is also parliamentary secretary to chief minister Siddaramaiah, has already denied having any knowledge of the diary and said it was not his handwriting. 
 
 “In March 2016, Govindraj was raided by the income-tax department and some documents and diary entries were seized. Why did they take 11 months to leak the diary? It clearly suggests that they were under some pressure and it's a theory cooked up in the context of elections that will come up in Karnataka in 2018,'' he added. 
 
 Taking a jibe at Union textiles minister Smriti Irani, who has demanded a probe into the matter at an election rally in UP, Singh said she must first come clean in the fake degree case filed against her before making such comments. 
 
 Siddaramaiah said Diarygate was a conspiracy by BJP national leaders to target the Congress government in Karnataka. “The BJP is totally frustrated, they are losing in Uttar Pradesh so they are using all weapons to win the Karnataka elections. We will not take it lying down and give a fitting reply,'' he added.
 
