KOLKATA: Visva-Bharati VC Swapan Kumar Dutta received a unique request from Bollywood star Priyanka Chopra’s mother Madhu — extend help to research on a bilingual film on ‘Rabindranath Tagore’s biopic on his first love Annapurna Turkhud’. University authorities have sought details of the script from Chopra, along with a list of places where the makers are likely to film in  , before they decide to help. 

 The Bengali-Marathi film, tentatively titled ‘Nalini’, will be helmed by director Ujjwal Chatterjee. Dutta said: “We have received the letter from Madhu Chopra. We have asked for the details of the script and it will be given to a committee. It is important to see if the script has adhered to the historical facts.” However, he insisted that the university isn’t against the idea of a film being made on this subject. “Earlier on, we had received requests for making films on Tagore’s life. This is the first time we have received a request on this subject. We are not closed to the idea,” he added.
 
 Though it isn’t mandatory that Visva-Bharati’s permission is sought before making a film on Tagore, Dutta said: “If someone works independently, it is his or her responsibility to ensure factual accuracy of the content. However if someone approaches us in writing for help, we have to be very careful.   is everyone’s wealth and no one’s property. We are all stakeholders.”
 
 “Since the producer and director of ‘Nalini’ are responsible people, I’m hoping they will handle the subject sensitively,” he said.
 
 Asked what he feels about the line ‘Rabindranath Tagore’s biopic on his first love…’, Dutta said it would be improper for him to make a sweeping statement on this. 
 
 Chatterjee is expecting to send the script by the end of this month. “It has been registered in Film Writers Association in Mumbai,” the director said. Sagarika Chatterjee, who penned the story, said, “We referred to books by William Radice, Krishna Kripalini, Hari Narke, Rathindranath Tagore and  . In our research, we have found that Tagore and Annapurna were attracted to each other.”
 
 Asked if Visva-Bharati didn’t approve of the storyline, the director said: “I will show a platonic relationship. I promise not to do anything to disrespect Tagore. However, I will also retain the facts in my film.”
 
