RAJKOT: When   and family land in Mandvi on Thursday , they will be making history. It was exactly 150 years ago that his grandfather   set sail from this ancient coastal town to migrate to Muscat and went on to establish his business empire -the  . Seventy eight year old Kanaksi began the journey to trace his ancestor's sea route in a luxurious yacht on January 9.

 “I have been longing to undertake a sea voyage to Mandvi. Recently , we did a trip from Dubai to Muscat in 30 hours and that was a lot of fun. That is when the idea of taking Mandvi voyage clicked and I knew I just had to do it,“ said  .
 
 Kanaksi is the first ethnic Indian to be conferred with the prestigious title of `Sheikh of the Indian Merchant Community' in Oman.
 
 The entourage departed from Muscat at 10 am on January 9 on the 55-feet long yacht `Leila.' Kanaksi is accompanied by his wife Kalpana, younger son Nailesh, cousins Anil Khimji, Mahesh Latwala and nephew Ashish Sampat, along with two crew members. At an average speed of nine knots, the distance of 610 nautical miles was covered in three days.
 
 “When I got married, I came to Muscat via Karachi. I have travelled on steam boats before and an overnight sail is the maximum I have done. This has been an amazing experience,“ said Kalpana.
 
 For Anil Khimji, it has been over 45 years since he last travelled by sea from India to Oman. “When we were growing up, this was the only mode of travel to and for from India,“ he reminisces. “I vividly remember we had to sleep on the deck and it took anything from four to five days under difficult conditions where water and food were restricted. This was a trip down the memory lane but so much more enjoyable and comfortable,“ he added.
 
 MC Jose, CEO of Khimji Ramdas Projects and Logistics, said, “The yacht is built in France and has a desalination facility for fresh water too.It was captained by an expert navigator, regular contact was maintained throughout the voyage through Thuraya phone. The entire trip was completed under the careful watch of the Indian Navy , Oman Navy and  ,“ said The group's business is spread across projects and logistics, consumer care, lifestyle and infrastructure.
 
 The family members are keen to make this an annual voyage as a tribute to their ancestors.
 
