MUMBAI: On Sunday, more than  ,000 runners will line up at the starting point of the   Marathon, the country’s biggest road run which is in its fourteenth edition. Those who will take to the streets include Bollywood stars, elite athletes, corporate leaders, children and just about everyone to run or to cheer. 

 The number of participants at this year’s run has gone up by over 2,000 as compared to 2016. The increase in the number of serious participants is indicative of the city’s growing interest in running. With 20,000 more participants this year as against 2016, the Dream Run segment too has seen an increase in number of people going for it joining.
 
 Another high for this year’s marathon has come in terms of the prize money—$3,84,000—and funds raised—Rs 30 crore. The Mumbai Marathon has now turned out to be one of the biggest platforms for philanthropy in the country. 
 
 The race categories and routes have been kept largely unchanged this year too. The route for half and full marathons includes city landmarks like Marine Drive, Chowpatty and the racecourse, among others. Besides those running the  , thousands of Mumbaikars are expected to turn up on the route to cheer and applaud them. While the Bollywood stars and some high-profile runners will grace the event, citizens would want to look out for 104-year-old Dagadu Bhamre, a Malegaon resident, who will make his marathon debut this year at the Dream Run. Bhamre will be accompanied by his 63-year-old son-in-law, Subhash Amrutkar (Wani).
 
 Organizers too are putting their best foot forward with arrangements. Provisions include drinking water, cool sponge station, chemical loos, recovery zones and energy drinks booths to help marathoners keep the momentum. There will be a team of 500 doctors, 12 medical stations and 11 ambulances along the route. The marathoners can seek help from 32 pace-setters—16 each for full and half marathons—to finish the race in stipulated time. The pacesetters can be identified by the flags they will be carrying. 
 
 The police have put in place a host of traffic and parking restrictions (see graphic) during the course of the race. Though roads along the routes will remain inaccessible to vehicular traffic up to 1pm, free access will be given to ambulances carrying patients, fire brigade vehicles and vehicles of essential services. 
 
 
