Kochi: Public resentment against   is forcing many of them to seek jobs with  . As more commuters are showing unwillingness to hire autorickshaws, these drivers have pinned their hopes on the   industry for a livelihood.

 M A Mahinkutty, who used to drive autos for 10 years, moved to an online taxi platform two months ago in search of a better job and opportunity. “I have a 15-year-old daughter, whose education depends on my income. Ever since I moved to online taxi, I have been able to earn over Rs 2,000 on most days,” he said. 
 
 Mahinkutty said during his last months as an auto driver, he used to earn less than Rs 1,000 on a good day. Along with better wages, now they don’t need to argue with passengers over the fare. 
 
 In the recent past, there have been continuous claims that auto drivers have been demanding more money from passengers than what is shown in the meter. “Asking people to pay extra is an odd ordeal. I am glad that it can be avoided now,” added Mahinkutty.
 
 M B Semanthabadran, general secretary of Ernakulam district auto drivers’ association, (CITU) confirmed the trend. He said, “People moving to online platforms are natural. We have plans to create an online platform to compete with them.”
 
 An official from an online taxi platform said that they expect more people to join the industry. He added that their aim was to increase the number of drivers to meet the company’s target and to reduce waiting time for customers and minimize the distance travelled by taxi between rides. 
 
 However, not all auto drivers who moved to the online taxi platforms share the same enthusiasm. G Das, who was an auto driver for eight years and moved to an online taxi platform a year ago, said: “The first two months are great because of the incentives. After that you stop earning the same amount of money. It is very difficult to make ends meet and I make a little over Rs 1,000 on most days. It is becoming impossible to maintain expenses and car loan EMI.”
 
 Navas Ponnani, joint secretary of the online taxi drivers’ union (OTDU), said, “The online platforms continue to take more and more drivers, but there are not enough customers for all of us. Therefore, most are unable to meet our targets.”
 
 
