NAGPUR: Pandit Raja Kale, known for rendering both old and new Hindustani classical music, and his daughter and disciple Amruta Kale performed at SCZCC’s first   of the year on Sunday morning.

 Raja Kale is an Indian vocalist, composer, and scholar of Indian classical, semi-classical, and devotional music. Despite the chilly winter morning, several music aficionados turned up to witness the magical partnership between father and daughter. Kale is the senior most disciple of legendary vocalist   of Agra, Jaipur and Gwalior gharanas.
 
 Kale is also known as a torch bearer of ‘Abhisheki gayaki’ and is proficient in semi-classical forms like thumri, tappa, light music, sugam sangeet and ghazals. He has performed live on several notable occasions, and on broadcast media, including TV and radio in India.
 
 Raja and Amruta started their power packed performance with raag Bhairav, in which they sang mesmerizing songs like ‘Fulwari phul’ and ‘Meher ki nazar kijiye’. Their voice was at once eclectic and focused on the performance. This was followed by a song in raag Lalat, ‘Aaye param purush krupal’. Amruta matched up to her father and guru’s tunes, adding melodious touches with her voice.
 
 “Jo riyaaz karega woh raaj karega,” said Raja Kale, inviting blessings for daughter Amruta’s musical journey. Amruta then sang solo in raag Todi, ‘Piya bina deu pran, gaaiye begun gun gaan’. Her performance received encouraging applause from the audience.
 
 Bhakti rachna was next in line in the playlist, and the Kales sang a delightful rendition of ‘Ek sur chara char hoyo’. They ended their powerful concert with an abhang dedicated to Sant Namdev ‘Utha Panduranga’.
 
 NK Vyas, a private employee who has been attending Brahmanaad regularly, said, “One can’t be bored in such programmes unlike the songs liked nowadays by youngsters. What I like about Kale’s music is that it is not commercial. Rather, it is traditionally rooted in our sanskriti.”
 
 QUOTES
 
 I learnt classical music years back but I keep listening and attending such programmes till date. Whenever I find time, I come for Bramhanaad. I loved Raja Kale’s aalap and than
 
 Toral Chanchani | homemaker
 
 The serene atmosphere created by such a powerful performance has positive effect on our minds. This format is also being copied in Pune and Mumbai. I’m grateful to SCZCC for bringing great artistes to the city
 
 Parag Zade | engineer
 
 The cultural activities done by SCZCC are commendable. We don’t miss a single Bramhanaad event as singers of international repute come and perform here. I’m an avid listener of good music, which brings me here each time.
 
 Vitthal Vyas | businessman
 
 
