Panaji:   are turning away from the historic   fort atop a quiet hill in Ilhas, as the archives and archaeology department has finally secured the fort after more than a decade of its abandonment to undesirable activities.

 The fort walls were sprayed with graffiti and obscenities, and the barracks littered with garbage. After its restoration in 2011 through a state-funded project costing approximately Rs 70 lakh, the 500-year-old fort had become an attraction for locals and tourists. 
 
 Vandalism near heritage sites in Goa has been a sore point for heritage lovers. Perched atop the St Estevam hill and lying in blissful isolation, its ramparts were soon invaded by vandals while it was at its completion stage.
 
 “Now we have kept a monument attendant at the site due to complaints of vandalism by some visitors,” said director, department of archives and archaeology (DAA), Blossom Medeira.
 
 The isolated location has been abused by some visitors. Heritage lovers have complained about broken bottles, packets of some addictive substances and other litter lying around. Couples are seen displaying their affection publicly in the barracks, forcing embarrassed visitors to stay away.
 
 DAA recently cleaned up the muck and carried out other repairs. The gates of the fort will now remain open from 9.30am to 5.30pm. 
 
 “Now, everything is under control,” says  , assistant archaeologist, DAA.
 
 Heritage lovers were hoping for its adaptive re-use after the crumbling structure got a new lease of life. At the other end of River Mandovi, Reis Magos fort has been converted into a tourist and cultural attraction. “Heritage assets like these can crumble to dust if neglected,” a heritage activist said.
 
 The possibility of linking the St Estevam fort to a heritage tourism circuit, which comprises places such as Old Goa, appears bright. “Heritage tourism has a lot of potential, but tourists should be responsible and locals must respect the sanctity of the monuments,” Sabnis said
 
 The islanders are apprehensive about crimes occurring at St Estevam fort at night. 
 
 Yogesh Nagvenkar, from   (HLG), voiced the same concern and said, “The police should randomly patrol the area to discourage misuse of the place at night,” he said.
 
