 I have always loved food, always. At the age 15, I weighed 75 kgs but it never really affected me as I was loved and pampered by all. However, at the age of 17, I was mocked by a group of my colony boys, one of whom I secretly liked. That's when I lost 17 kgs in 2 months by controlling my diet (and walking). I managed to maintain that for quite a long time and that was also the time when I realised my love for fitness and yoga. I started gymming, used to attend yoga classes and be active in general. When I conceived, I went up to 89 kgs. I tried diet plans almost after an year and came down to 74 but went back to eating more and again went back to 83. I then started working out regularly but still my food habits didn't show me the results I was working hard for. I feel so frustrated sometimes when I eat so much and I regret it the next day too but when I am eating it, it feels like there is no tomorrow. Portion control is my biggest problem. I weigh 88 kilos today and it is impacting my health. I want to stop living and loving food so much! Is there any psychological basis to this fondness/obsession for food? Please help me. - 
 
 
  
  The mouth is the first source of pleasure when we were infants. Milk was our first object of pleasure which gave us satisfaction and a feeling of being full. As we grew older, solid food was substituted with milk and feeling of fullness was now replaced by not only the type of food but also had to appeal to our taste buds. The feeling of fullness led to a feeling of fulfillment. This now became attached to the place where we are, the ambience and the company we kept. So food, is now a representative of many things in your mind. Maybe the first time you had a crush on someone, you felt he could have reciprocated if you were thinner, more slimmer or in some way like the girl walking next to him. So, you started the exercise routine and even lost weight. But remember, when you lose weight for anyone else except yourself, it won't last. This is because it's to gain someone's attention and love and when that does not come your way, there you go losing your motivation and then maybe after a few more rejections it's like ,"No one really cares, so chuck it!" This is the most dangerous bend the mind can take. It's now a downhill task to lose weight, all because you have lost hope of getting any attention from the opposite sex.
  
  In your case, you have been focusing more on weight gain and loss as a measure of your level of confidence, respect and admiration. This also gets you away from exploring any other avenues that could make you happier and contented with yourself. Just because you are a few kilos heavy does it make you any less attractive, intelligent or popular?
  
  Let me give you a few tips to lose weight and retain your confidence so that the   can be maintained.
  
  1) Seventy five percent of people, who attempt to shrink their waistlines, keep regaining lost weight. This is called weight cycling. So, relaxing exercises are a must to start off the regime. Make a sensible plan which is spread over 3-6 months rather than doing any crash course in weight loss.
  
  2) Commitment is a must to joining either a yoga or fitness class immediately. The same way you are committed to food, stay committed to yoga and fitness. So your mind does not have to think of food, because nothing is being stopped, only one more commitment is being added to your daily routine. Click some of your daily selfies and appreciate how good you look. Take a self - motivated trip.
  
  3) A good bedtime routine can help in your slim down efforts. No night snacking should be encouraged. Punctuality and discipline to maintain your healthy sleep time may get you to eat healthy. Eventually it can be extended to other activities. So other hobbies like trekking, cycling, aerobics etc can be taken up. This way your thoughts will be off 'Food' and on to ' Fun'
  
  4) Stop eating food with anything processed - cheese, sauce, bread, colas and chips. Replace this with healthy food stuff and the craving for the unhealthy will reduce in time.
  
  5) Avoid the scale for a month. Don't be like the women who keep standing on the weighing machine everyday and make a joke out of themselves by ridiculing their efforts.
  
  6) The FIRST portion is the ONLY portion to be eaten. Make it your religion.
  
  7) You are of value and that cannot be measured by the portion of food your eat or the weight you possess. Every morning, prepare a plan for stretching your mind more than your muscles. Begin to bend your interests more than your knees and search for interesting stimuli rather than fixing your gaze on the weighing scale numbers.
  
  Your life line is, "I am FIT" and gear yourself for the goal.
  
  
 
  
  
 
