MUMBAI: Nine years after a man was killed in a   at his building in Ghaziabad, the country’s apex consumer body has ordered the company responsible for its maintenance and the builder to pay a   of Rs 50 lakh to his family. While the builder, M/s Parasvnath Developers Ltd, has been directed to pay Rs 20 lakh, the maintenance company, Basundhara Properties Pvt Ltd, has been ordered to pay the remaining amount of Rs 30 lakh.   Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission exonerated the elevator company saying it had no part to play in the mishap.

 The victim,   S, fell into the shaft after he entered the door to the lift on the third floor. The complaint was submitted by his father C Sukumaran, and mother before the commission in 2009. 
 
 His parents said that he resided on the sixth floor of the building, Parsvanath Majestic Floors. They said that on the night of July 16, 2008, Sajan called for the lift. Realising there was a power cut, he decided to take the stairs. By the time he reached the third floor, the power supply resumed and the lift door on the third floor of the building was open. Sajan stepped inside assuming that the lift would be in place but fell through the shaft and sustained serious injuries. He was taken to the hospital where he died. In its reply, the builder denied negligence and alleged that lift maintenance was under the charge of Basundhara Properties Pvt Ltd. 
 
 The maintenance company denied its complicity and blamed the mishap on the victim’s negligence.
 
 The commission, however, relied on the information that the landing door of the lift, through which the victim had walked, could only be opened manually with a key which was handed over to the maintenance company. 
 
 Questioning why the door could have been open at the time of tragedy, the commission reasoned that considering the power failure it could have been opened to rescue someone trapped inside. 
 
 The commission said that since the company had given custody of the key to an unauthorised person who ended up leaving it open after rescuing the trapped person, it was responsible for contributory negligence.
 
 With respect to the builder, the commission said that the lifts should have been provided with back-up power. “Providing lifts in a multi-storied residential building, without even minimum power back up, in my opinion, is certainly a negligent act and a defect or deficiency in the services rendered by the builder... Had power back-up for the operation of the lifts been provided, this incident would not have happened since the lift car would have been on the landing floor and the deceased would not have been stuck on account of power failure,” the commission said.
 
