JALANDHAR: Rights group   (SFJ) has written to the   government in Canada to place a blanket ban on entry of Punjab Police officers into the country “for committing gross human rights violations during 1990s”. This comes after the Canadian government’s refusal of entry to former CRPF Inspector General Tejinder Singh Dhillon on the ground that Indian government engages in “terrorism, systematic or gross human rights violations, or genocide.” 

 SFJ has quoted Human Rights Watch 2007 report “Protecting the Killers: A Policy of Impunity in Punjab”, to justify its point that “the reports by the human rights NGOs provide ample support for a finding of inadmissibility under Immigration and Refugee Refugee Protection Act”. 
 
 In a May 23 communiqué to ministers of Trudeau government, SFJ states, "We are deeply concerned that allowing the officers of Punjab Police to freely enter and remain in Canada despite their involvement in acts of police criminality will only enhance the perception of police impunity shared among survivors of the violence."
 
 Citing sections 35 and 36 of the IPRA of Canada, the SFJ letter concludes that the Punjab Police officers are inadmissible because they committed torture, murder, assault and unlawfully causing bodily harm. SFJ says that under section 33 of the IRPA, the standard of proof for finding inadmissibility is “reasonable grounds to believe” that the persons have engaged in terrorism, systematic or gross human rights violations or genocide, a war crime or crimes against humanity.
 
 The letter addressed to Ralph Goodale, minister of public safety and emergency preparedness, Ahmed Hussen, minister of immigration, refugees and citizenship, Chrystia Freeland, minister of foreign Affairs quotes the HRW stating, "Indian security forces arbitrarily detained, tortured, executed, and disappeared tens of thousands of Sikhs in counterinsurgency operations. In the early 1990s, Director General of Police K P S Gill expanded upon a system of rewards and incentives for police to capture and kill militants, leading to an increase in disappearances and extra judicial executions of civilians and militants alike. The United States government described the Punjab police practice of faked encounter killings in 1993.”
 
 SFJ legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who signed the letter from SFJ, said, “We will hold Punjab Police officers accountable for their role in torture and extra judicial killing of Sikhs if they are found on Canadian soil.”
 
 
