NEW DELHI: Age counts. Three lakh youth clubs have undergone a re-registration process for the past year bringing down their number drastically to just around 1.5 lakh after a weeding out process eliminated members above 29 years of age. This was revealed by minister of state (independent charge),   on Wednesday. 

 Speaking about the drastic cut in the number of such clubs, Goel, who heads the youth affairs & sports ministry, said, "Before the re-registration process, there were around 80 lakh members in the 3 lakh clubs. After we insisted that the definition of youth be enforced, the number has come down to 1.5 lakh clubs." Youth, as internationally defined, are between 15 years to 29 years.
 
 Goel however, chose to play down the cut in numbers of the clubs which come under the   project, saying it has given the government an opportunity to add more members and clubs to the list. The re-registration has enabled the government to have a clearer idea of the number of such clubs, with the list even linking Aadhaar numbers of members, enabling better administration. "A large number of such clubs are in the rural and tribal areas," added Goel.
 
 Goal was speaking at an event to announce the national youth awards, whose structure has been changed by increasing the number of recipients and throwing open nominations to everyone by making the process online.
 
 "The number of awards in the voluntary organisation category has now been increased from just 1 to 10," said the minister. 
 
 Earlier, only one award was given under the Voluntary Organisation category, to those groups working with the youth for national development and social service.
 
 It is also for the first time that the nominations for the national youth awards would be received and processed online, on the lines of the Padma Awards, and on a pan-India basis. Earlier, the nominations were received only through state/UT governments with the restriction that they should nominate only five names for individuals and two nominations in voluntary organisations category.
 
 "The final selection will be made by the eight-member  , headed by the secretary, department of youth affairs and prominent and eminent personalities," added Goel.
 
 A new logo for the national youth awards has also been released.
 
 
