MUMBAI:   February 14 is a time when all the world celebrates a lover. Window displays cannot get enough of   while roses, chocolate and cake come for a premium.

 Amid the annual festivity, some young couples have decided to put a lifelong seal on their relationship by getting married this day.
 
 Couples who marry for love do not focus too much on the mahurat, they like the idea of tying the knot on Valentine's Day. But it helps that this year the date is partially favourable by the almanac.
 
 Former classmates at Shardashram, Dadar,   and   will tie the knot at   in Wadala. "It is not as if we are childhood sweethearts. But we happened to meet recently and we felt we had much in common, starting from the fact that both of us are engineers. One meeting led to another, and we decided to get married," the ever smiling Viraj says.
 
 February 14 just "happened" to them. "We wanted to get married earlier but could not find hall bookings to coincide with our chosen mahurat. This date simply fell in place," the groom says.
 
 Caterers, seamsters and mehndi artistes are also busy at Valentine's Day. Indu Rathod and Anita Kataria of Sankalp Mehndi will attend to the wedding of US-based Aditi Shukla with Benjamin van der Jagt in Powai.
 
 "We will draw a large heart on her palm that will contain figures of the bride and groom, alongside a palanquin, shehnai, kalash and swastik. The groom's name will be woven into the design and he will have to try and spot it as the age-old practice dictates," says the artiste Anita.
 
 Bride Aditi says, "Ben and I met in Columbus, Ohio, where we work. Both of us are bad at remembering dates so it's nice to be married on Valentine's Day. We are not likely to forget our wedding anniversary."
 
 Sukkur Hall in Wadala will host the guests who attend Ankush Gupta's wedding to fashion designer Priya Jain. "Our engagement is on February 14 while the wedding is scheduled the next day. The theme incorporates a lot of red roses. The cake will be shaped like a red heart as well. Ours is a love marriage so we were very excited when the ceremonies were scheduled on Valentine's Day," says Ankush.
 
 Invariably, each season throws up its share of naysayers who scowl at Western fads like Valentine's Day. Dentist Jenisha Doshi will marry I-T engineer Rikin Jain at Nirmala Hall in Kandivli. Jenisha's father Harshad Doshi said, "We simply chose this day for the wedding because our maharaj (priest) declared that it is an auspicious mahurat. We are purists who have no need for adopted customs of other cultures. We believe money is a curse so naturally there is no question of hearts and balloons in the decoration. It is a spartan traditional ceremony."
 
