LUCKNOW: As many as seven of  's 11 districts voting on Wednesday have more than 30%  . Here, SP and BSP's aggressive minority outreach will be put to test. In these parts, the BJP is up against   and will bank on a split in  .

 Muslims have always dominated Rohilkhand and several of the 67 seats voting in Phase 2 have more than 50% minority population -Rampur, Moradabad, Bijnor and Amroha. In 2012, when Muslims voted en masse for SP , the party won 35 of the 67 seats. The BJP took just 10, the BSP 11. Now, if SP has to win Lucknow, it must consolidate its position among the Muslims.
 
 This phase will put to test the popularity of Muslim ministers of SP . Big guns Azam Khan, Iqbal Mamood, Mehboob Ali, Riyaz Ahmad and Kamal Akhtar are all in the fray on Wednesday . So is Imran Masood -infamous for his rabid remarks against Narendra Modi during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls campaigning. He contests from Nakur in Saharanpur.
 
 From Congress, former Union minister and twotime MP Jitin Prasada is contesting assembly polls for the first time -from his home seat Tilhar in Shahjahanpur while the party's sitting MLA, Mawiya Ali, is fighting on an SP ticket from Deoband.
 
 With a high concentration of Muslims, BJP banks on Hindus getting polarised.It fielded Shuchi Chaudhary , wife of an RSS worker serv ing time for allegedly triggering a communal flare-up last year, from Bijnor. Also, this phase is a litmus test for a large number of turncoats -many of them sitting MLAs.
 
 Both BSP and SP have claimed the support of Muslim clerics and the ulema to tell the community they're best placed to defeat BJP .
 
 For BJP , this region is the most difficult to win.
 
 It faces distraught workers of small and unorganised trade, and Muslims united against it. With thousands of people from weaker sections in the zari, furniture and flute-making industries struggling to make ends meet on one side and better off farmers on the other, Rohilkhand is a picture of con trasts. Demonetisation has hit the region. If many in the unorganised sector are out of work, farmers too are hit, for they're not finding buyers for their produce.“The marriage season is at its peak, still we have no orders,“ laments Suresh Agarwal, owner of a cane-furni ture shop. He recalls how he had to hire additional workers to cope with the flood of orders the previous season.Badaun district presents a relatively better picture, being the region's largest milk producer. In Bareilly , Pilibhit, Saharanpur, Lakhimpur and Shahjahanpur, the green revolution has over decades changed socio-economic conditions.
 
 Many Lakhimpur and Shahjahanpur Sikhs have family in the US and Canada.Farmhouses in this terai belt have the best of gadgets and cars. More than two-third of 120 sugar mills are in these parts. With the highest production of sugarcane and paddy , they too qualify as rice bowl and sugar belt.
 
 But the condition of those in zari work and makers of kajal haven't improved in 40-50 years and they remain daily-wage earners. This is why Rohilkhand's unorganised sector workers are worst hit by demonetisation.
 
 For the SP , the challenge is to defend its citadel. The party is allied with the Congress which won three seats here in the previous assembly polls.
 
 The prestige of Dharmendra Yadav, SP MP from Badaun and  's cousin is at stake. Like in many places, the ruling party faces resistance from rebels.
 
 Captain Arjun Singh is a case in point. He was well placed in the US and a professional pilot. Akhilesh got him to join his party . But Singh was denied a ticket allegedly because his father Naresh Pratap Singh is a Mulayam loyalist. Arjun is in the fray from Dataganj as an independent, challenging the SPCongress alliance.
 
