NAGPUR: It was music for connoisseurs as flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar took the stage at Deshpande hall for   Cultural festival that opened on Thursday.

  Flanked by two percussionists, the veteran tabla player   and young pakhawaj player Omkar Dalvi, Pt Majumdar selected a lesser performed raga Gorakh Kalyan for his performance this evening. Different from his peers for the unique style of raga presentation in which he seamlessly blends Dhrupad gayaki with laykaari, the renowned flautist, who learnt his craft from Pt Vijay Raghav Rao, gave a scintillating flute recital that was soaked in by the discerning audience.
 
 Known for his forays in Hindi film industry where he has collaborated with composers like RD Burman and his presence at Spicmacay demonstrations, Pt Majumdar remained much of the purist with the alaap and had Omkar Dalvi play out the Dhrupad ang on pakhawaj. He followed this performance with a bandish from his album Heart to Heart which he had cut with tabla maestro Ustad   20 years back. 
 
 Pt Ramdas Palsule on tabla accompanied with both Teen taal and Rupak taal. Next was an old bandish by Balwantrai Bhatt, Khelan chali sundari. Giving the stage to the two percussionists, he encouraged an engaging jugalbandi between the artists who showed their mastery.
 
 A dhun in which Pt Majumdar displayed his expertise of short measured perfect notes followed the jugalbandi. The notes from the flute together with tabla and pakhawaj created divine music for listeners. Having learnt classical vocal also, the flute maestro recited a poem ‘Tu kaun hai mera koi nahi’. 
 
 Picking up the flute once again he gave a rendition in raag Shahana Bahar and also sang the bandish ‘Ritu basant sakhi mohman bhavat’ and also presented a chez in the same raga. Introducing the audience to his rich repertoire, Pt Majumdar also played a Marathi song ‘tinhi sancha’ which he said was the favourite of Balasaheb Thackeray.
 
  He paid tribute to RD Burman with the composition ‘saat baar bole bansi’ from his private album Dil Padosi Hai. The performance concluded with a piece in raga Pahadi.
 
 The second day of the festival will have two vocal performances by Dhrupad singer   and Hindustani Classical vocalist Pt Ulhas Kashalkar. The performances will be at Deshpande hall from 6 pm.
 
