NEW DELHI: BJP’s main challenge in Tripura, where the party is working to take on the 20-year-old Manik Sarkar-led Left government in next year’s assembly elections, is the “clean and efficient image” of the chief minister who will be seeking a fifth term in 2018. 

 Hence, BJP’s main campaign efforts, building up for some months now, have been directed towards “tarnishing” Sarkar’s image, which continues to be CPM’s main plank. “To break the myth about Sarkar’s goodwill as a clean leader and able administrator, BJP is questioning his simple and frugal lifestyle and also the state’s performance which has been good but only in the books,” said  , BJP’s incharge of Tripura. 
 
 Hitting out at Sarkar’s personal image for instance, Deodhar has been saying in public meetings that the CM has an “expensive treadmill” at his home and wears “fancy shoes” even as he is seen clad in ordinary ‘dhotikurta’. BJP has also been talking about how the CM takes a chopper to move around, but never uses the same chopper “to rescue people hit by natural calamities or other emergencies”. In fact, after such regular personal attacks on Sarkar, Deodhar was slapped with a defamation case last month for trying to malign the CM at a public rally in Bishalgarh in April.
 
 Upbeat on ousting the Left regime in Tripura, Deodhar told TOI, “Sarkar’s image is already on the decline in the state, but he must be unmasked at the national level.” For the purpose, BJP has come out with booklet in Hindi, which the party plans to launch in English soon, to break the myth about Sarkar’s “good administration”. It is titled “Illusion and Reality:  , the Red Face of Anarchy”. The party is “happy” at the Prasar Bharti goof-up on Independence Day when Doordarshan refused to broadcast Sarkar’s speech, which created a row at the national level, say BJP insiders. 
 
 BJP is also working on the sizeable tribal population in the state — where a sensitive divide between tribals and non-tribals (Bengalis) has always played its part in politics — by essentially saying that the Left regime has done little for the tribals. Muslims account for nearly 6% of the population in the state. In talks with the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), which has been raising demands for a separate state, BJP is hoping for an alliance to come through. 
 
 While it cannot fan a demand for a separate state, BJP has been trying to convince IPFT that it would ensure greater powers for the Autonomous District Administration, so that central funds can directly reach them, instead of routing it through the state government for the development of the tribal-dominated areas. 
 
 “Since it would be suicidal for IPFT to go it alone in the polls, BJP is offering a helping hand for a tie-up to oust the ruling party,” said a party manager. The Centre has also promised land to 1.25 lakh landless people and assured them of passing a bill in the coming winter session of Parliament to amend the 6th Schedule of the Constitution that deals with mechanisms to govern autonomous areas for tribals.
 
