The 12th century reforms which saw the birth of the Lingayat sect was aimed at anti-Sanskritisation and tried to reach out to the common man through the Bhakti cult.Social reforms allowed conversion of people from the lower strata of society to the Lingayat sect; the reforms were considered a great equalizer.
The period between 1920 and 1956 saw the political mobilization of Lingayats. With North Karnataka getting involved in the unification of Kannada-speaking areas into Karnataka, the non-Brahmins also joined the movement. It is said that Sir Siddappa Kambali, a prominent Lingayat leader, complained to Mahatma Gandhi during the latter's visit to Belagavi that Brahmins were not allowing others to join the movement. Gandhi replied that he had come to mobilize people for the freedom movement and such issues should be settled locally .
 
 The national movement was looking to bring all Kannada-speaking people together with the help of the trilingual -Kannada, English and Hindi -policy. Post-reorganisation of states, Chitradurga district played a major role, with S Nijalingappa, Kadidal Manjappa and others dominating the political scenario. In south Karnataka, where the Vokkaligas dominated, it was   who became a powerful leader.
 
 During this time, there were reports of people in south Karnataka opposing the unification of Kannada-speaking areas into Karnataka because they feared that power would go to the Lingayats.That possibility was strong since the Lingayats had the numerical strength as well as land holdings. Compared with south Karnataka, the districts in north Karnataka were large and hence there would be more constituencies which in turn would ensure that the number of legislators from north Karnataka would be more. History tells us that of the 11 chief ministers from north Karnataka, seven were Lingayats.
 
 The people of south Karnataka were apprehensive that the party successful in electing maximum number of legislators from north Karnataka in general and   in particular would hold the reins of the state.With Lingayats dominating the numbers, they were naturally a deciding factor.
 
 It is important to note that three factors helped Lingayats dominate Karnataka politics ­ private educational institutions, support from religious mutts and their religious identity. The influence of mutts in the political mobilization of people in favour of Lingayats is a major factor which has helped in the consolidation of the community . With the government not bothering to invest in educational institutions in north Karnataka, the onus of providing education had fallen on the private sector. The Lingayat mutts came forward to meet the challenge and established educational institutions. The KLE Society , for example, is a major investor. This has also helped the political consolidation of Lingayats.
 
 In Karnataka, the Lingayats faced mainly three challenges ­ backwardness in education (they felt they were deprived of education by the Brahmins), economic backwardness (the challenge from Vokkaligas who had huge landholdings) and the numerical strength of the OBCs. The third challenge, however, was not much of a worry as the 12th century reforms had allowed conversions from the lower strata to the Lingayat sect and some OBCSCSTs were running as subsidiaries of Lingayats.
 
 The Lingayats started consolidating their position once they came to power. Power was tilted in favour of Lingayats or minorities till H D   became chief minister. Congress was in the hands of Lingayats with the minorities supporting it till 1983. The arrival of Gowda as the chief minister saw the resurrection of Vokkaligas.
 
 The later years saw three major developments. BJP had started taking shape, RSS had the backing of Lingayats.JD(S) remained a predominantly Vokkaliga-based party .And the OBCSCSTs continued to support Congress.
 
 Meanwhile, the efforts by Devaraj Urs to break the dominance of Lingayats by introducing land reforms and anti-pover ty programmes and thereby reducing their economic power did not meet with expected success. Urs tried to empower the working class by feeding them and making them independent of the landlords. However, his plan to weaken the Lingayats politically did not yield the expected results.
 
 Now, chief minister Siddaramaiah is trying to follow Urs' model by launching schemes to appease the Ahinda and by offering freebies to the economically weaker sections. The demand for according `separate religion' status to Lingayats has cropped up for the second time after the Nanjangud byelection. The Lingayats are claiming that the sect has all the prerequisites to be tagged as a religion. A similar demand had cropped up during the 1990s but it subsided.
 
