PATNA:   on Tuesday called upon all non-BJP parties across north India to sink their petty differences and come together to form a Bihar-like Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) at national level to dethrone the incumbent Narendra Modi government in the 2019 general election.

 Speaking on the first day of a three-day training camp for RJD workers at Rajgir, about 110km south of Patna, Lalu said if all secular and non-BJP forces in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha come together, PM Modi would have to pack up from New Delhi.
 
 “Look, I had very serious differences with Nitish Kumar on some issues before the 2015 Bihar elections. But to stop the BJP’s victory chariot, we sank our differences and forged a grand alliance. We also took Congress in our alliance and effectively stopped the BJP in Bihar elections,” Lalu said.
 
 The RJD chief said he already had “positive talks” with leaders like Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and   supremo Mayawati to forge an alliance. “I will soon forge a grand alliance with the consent of such leaders,” he said.
 
 Hours after inaugurating the training camp, Lalu also announced a big meeting of all opposition parties at Patna’s   in August. “Prominent leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav and Naveen Patnaik and many others will attend the meeting,” RJD chief said.
 
 Lalu also said communal forces like the RSS and BJP were trying to vitiate the social harmony by raking up issues like cow slaughter, ‘kabristan’ and ‘shamshan’.
 
 Calling upon the RJD workers to be like Lalu Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav and RJD’s state chief Ramchandra Purbe to protect the country from communal forces, he said, “You all have to take a strong stand to stop the communal forces from spreading their base.”
 
 Taking a swipe at PM Modi, Lalu said, “Modi claims he has a 56-inch chest, but Pakistan is repeatedly killing our soldiers and mutilating their bodies. Where has your 56-Inch chest gone now.”
 
 Bihar’s deputy CM Tejaswi Prasad Yadav, RJD’s Rajya Sabha member and Lalu’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti, Bihar finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, cooperative minister Alok Mehta, culture and youth minister Shiv Chandra Ram, state RJD chief   and former MP Jagdanand also addressed the inaugural function. The camp will conclude on April 4 with RJD’s national executive committee meet.
 
 
