AURANGABAD: A   has acquitted all four accused in kidnapping and   that the prosecution has failed to prove their role beyond doubt. The deceased man was allegedly kidnapped and murdered before being buried in the bed of Kham River passing behind the  . 

 The murder took place on October 9, 2014.
 
 Majaz Dilbar Khan (37), who was an auto-rickshaw driver by profession, was allegedly murdered on October 9, 2014 suspecting him to be a police informer.
 
 Three days later, four accused identified as Shoeb Salim Shaikh (25) of Kaziwada, Majid Ali Shaikh (22) of Kat Kat Gate area, Amjad Asad Shaikh (25) and Babla alias Wajed Asad Shaikh, both brothers and residents of   were arrested.
 
 Police said that at the time of incident, Amjad, was out on a conditional bail in a murder case.
 
 During the course of investigation, the police had successfully extracted confessions out of the accused, and based on it they had also dug out the body of the deceased from the river bed and managed to find witnesses supporting the last seen theory.
 
 Lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar, who represented three of the four accused in the case, contested that the police cooked up the story that the man was kidnapped and later murdered after suspecting him to be a police informer as they could not detect the case. The fourth accused in the case was represented by lawyer SG Ladda.
 
 The police though have claimed that the accused for the first time confessed of burying the body of the deceased in the river bed at 11 am on October 11, 2014 but the record shows that the police had informed the family a day earlier, contested Ghanekar.
 
 While pronouncing the judgement, additional sessions judge SS Gosavi ruled that the prosecution has failed to produce any eye-witness to the murder case, which is purely based on circumstantial evidence.
 
 The judge also ruled that the court has found disparity in the statements of the witnesses produced before the court and they do not draw a parallel with circumstantial evidence on record.
 
 The evidence produced before the court cannot be completely relied upon and the prosecution through its investigation has failed to complete the chain of evidence. The evidences produced by the prosecution are not sufficient to hold the accused as guilty. The additional sessions judge then pronounced that due to insufficient reliable evidence against the arrested accused and also due to disparity in the key statements of the witnesses, the accused are eligible of being acquitted of the charges.
 
