GURUGRAM:   is likely to take over   over the next month, a move that is likely to spell relief for residents who had had a troublesome summer.

 Sources told TOI that even though MCG was still in the process of taking over the area, officials are mulling over taking control of the area’s   distribution system on a priority basis, keeping in mind the gravity of the situation. 
 
 “Residents approached the commissioner with complaints regarding water supply in Sushant Lok-1. After failing in their attempts at getting a response on the matter from the developer, we have been discussing taking over water supply of the area within the next two weeks,” said a source.
 
 Sushant Lok-1 has been facing acute water shortage all through this summer because of deteriorating water supply infrastructure, coupled with power supply being severed to pumps for non-payment of bills. The water supply has especially affected particular blocks within the township.
 
 There is an outstanding amount of Rs 50 lakh, which has to be paid to the discom. Residents agreed to pay a third of the amount, with the builder Ansal API Limited asked to bear the rest. Several communications were sent to the developer on this by MCG, without any response. “After several reminders, officials are planning to add the outstanding amount to the bill for infrastructure deficiencies which will have to be borne by the developer as part of the MCG takeover. The discom has been informed of the decision,” said the source.
 
 To start with, the corporation will take over the distribution of water, and simultaneously start work on development of infrastructure — pipelines and pumps — which are in a bad state. MCG officials said the matter is still being processed. “The developer has some dues to clear. Once this is done, we’ll take this forward,” said a senior MCG official. Meanwhile, water shortage continues to trouble residents.
 
 “I moved here in 2014. The water supply situation has only gotten worse ever since. Every third day, I spend Rs 800 on a tanker. Supply is sparse, and when it arrives, it lasts only for 5-15 minutes. MCG has assured us that it will take over the water distribution. Let’s hope it happens fast,” said Deepak Mahtani, a resident.
 
