JALANDHAR:  , who was arrested in 2012 by the   police commissionerate on charges of creating and funding terrorist modules at the behest of terrorist organizations, and former Akali Dal Panch Pardhani president  , who was later included in the case as a conspirator, were acquitted by a local court as police failed to prove their case.

 The court of additional sessions judge Preeti Sahni acquitted Bittu and Azad. They had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Arms Act for trying to wage a war against the government. Azad originally hailed from Durrhe village near Jalandhar and had settled in UK in 1965.
 
 It was the first case after the end of militancy in Punjab in which the state police had claimed to have exposed a link between terror funding and   (a sobriquet for the Sikh armymen who had deserted their barracks to protest against Operation Bluestar).
 
 Azad was arrested in September 2012 and police had claimed that he was linked to former Akali Dal Panch Pardhani (ADPP) president Bittu. Police had also claimed that Azad had close relations with banned terrorist organization Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) led by Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) led by Ranjit Singh Neeta, Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) led by Jagtar Singh Tara and Parpinder Singh of Scotland and others.
 
 While both were tried under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 121 (waging war against the Indian government) and 121-A (punishment for waging war against the Indian government) of the IPC and the the UAPA, 1967, Azad was also booked under the Arms Act as police had claimed that a pistol and 15 cartridges had also been recovered from his possession. 
 
 Defence counsel Jaspal Singh Manjhpur said independent witnesses had turned hostile while there were technical flaws in the mandatory approval required for the trial under the UAPA. He added that the defence had also pointed out serious flaws in the recovery of the weapon.
 
 Police had claimed that Azad was funding Dharmi Faujis for terrorist activities. It also accused Azad of financing terror modules, Dharmi Faujis and kin of dead terrorists to reunite them for subversive activities.
 
 
