CHANDIGARH: With the change of guard in neighbouring Punjab, hectic lobbying is on in   too as All India Congress Committee is mulling to reorganize the party that is marred by factionalism in the state.

 Sources in AICC said that the reorganization was being planned as part of an exercise for the general elections as well as assembly elections scheduled for 2019.
 
 In new organizational structure, ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda,   and AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala are expected to get major roles in the state, sources claimed. Hooda could be give the organization responsibility while Bishnoi could be asked to head the Congress legislative party (CLP) in the state, it was expected.
 
 At present, former MP Ashok Tanwar, who is believed to be close to AICC vice-president Rahul Gandhi, is heading the state unit, while former minister Kiran Choudhary is CLP leader. Tanwar along with former Union minister Selja are to be given higher responsibilities in AICC, party sources indicated.
 
 The Congress high command has been forced to do take up this the exercise after the tussle between the Tanwar and Hooda groups spilled on the roads of the national capital. During Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Delhi last year, the supporters of the two leaders had clashed, and Tanwar was injured in the melee. This lead to a police case being filed against Hooda’s supporters and Tanwar and former minister Ajay Singh Yadav becoming vocal against the former CM.
 
 “As per established practice, the party will follow the Jat and non-Jat combination for Haryana. If Party president if Jat than CLP position will go to a non-Jat. But first party will decide on state leadership and following this the meeting of MLAs will be called for the purpose of CLP leadership,” said a senior Congress leader. If all goes well, the exercise would be over within one month, he added.
 
 Hooda and Tanwar were unavailable for comments. However, Tanwar during his media interaction last week had denied any moves of change in guard in the state.
 
 Bishnois meet Sonia
 
 Kuldeep Bishnoi and his wife   on Wednesday met Congress chief   in New Delhi. Sources close to Kuldeep said that the couple had visited her to know well being of the party president. They spent over 50 minutes with Sonia Gandhi.
 
