GURUGRAM: The delay in roll-out of a   system, coupled with a  , which prompted several employers to withdraw their cab services, is taking a toll on the city’s office commuters.

 With Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line already functioning beyond capacity, most office-goers are forced to drive or take  , burning a hole in their pockets. “For my travel from Palam Vihar to office on Barakhamba Road, I take a cab till Dwarka, then   and finally an auto, every day. Not only would a   improve connectivity, but also help me save Rs 400 every day,” said Rahil Chaterjee, who works with an NGO.
 
 There are others like him who spend more than they wish, due to the lack of a public transport system. Every day, 7-8 lakh people ride Yellow Line Metro, while around 40,000 avail Rapid Metro. “I commute between DLF 2 and Huda City Centre. I try to take Metro some days, but due to the rush, I end up with a cab. If only there were a direct bus, things would have been better,” said Mona Kushwaha, a finance professional in the healthcare sector.
 
 The troubles of office commuters were aggravated after the diesel ban, as many big MNCs stopped offering commute services, or restricted it to odd hours, and/or for women. A senior HR official of a major international bank with headquarters in Europe, said, “During the first week of the diesel ban, office attendance fell. The company is looking at it as a business risk.” He added that with the likelihood of steps such as diesel   being repeated quite high — hampering businesses as a result — the company stopped the commute service altogether, except for women in odd hours. “The idea was to take cars off the road and bring down pollution, but it’s leading to more cars on road,” said another senior official of the bank.
 
 Another major investment bank from Australia has also withdrawn its pick and drop facility for employees. Other companies, which had withdrawn cab services some years ago, include E Value Serve and NTT Data. In fact, NTT uses the money saved from the pick and drop facility to incentivise employees to use public transport. Other big Indian employers are working with local bike taxi player Baxi for pocket friendly commute. 
 
 MCG sources said approval for a city bus service has arrived from Chandigarh a couple of days ago, though it can’t take off before GMDA takes over. “The bus project is being processed. We can’t comment on the launch date,” said V Umashankar, officer on special duty for GMDA and MCG commissioner. 
 
 
