KOCHI: The unbearable   heat has made swimming a much sought after summer camp activity with children queuing up at various sporting clubs in the city. 

 Interest in swimming has touched an all-time high this summer. "We have received lot of entries. The first batch has seen around 600 students participating in the camp for swimming lessons alone," said Fr. Josh Kanjuparambil, director at the   and in-charge of the summer camp.
 
 "In the initial registration itself, there is easily a 10-15% increase in the number of entries for swimming classes," he said. 
 
 Saji Valassery, a swimming coach who has been training kids without remuneration for the past eight years, said a large number of children turned up for swimming classes this summer.
 
 "Over 300 kids have already signed up for the first batch. I'll be taking in one more batch this year owing to the rush. Last year, around 320 students learned swimming," Saji said.
 
 The sudden love for swimming could be because it is an activity that can be undertaken despite the heat, swimming trainers said.
 
 "Other sport activities could cause dehydration if effective precautions are not taken, and the parents are very much concerned about the kids being in the sun for too long. Swimming classes which builds stamina without being out in the sun have thus become a favourite activity for both kids and the parents," said Suresh Babu, a swimming trainer in the city.
 
 While sports and athletics remain one of the most preferred activity when it comes to summer camps, innovative courses like magic, robotics, barbeque cooking and traditional musical instrument classes are also gaining popularity.
 
 According to Fr. Josh, the entries for summer camps have doubled over the past three years and the courses too have also increased accordingly. "Apart from outdoor sports like football, cricket, badminton we are offering 21 programs this year, which includes offbeat courses like beautician, kalaripayattu and traditional instruments like Chenda," Father Josh said.
 
 However, owing to the soaring temperature, the timings of outdoor activities have been adjusted to avoid children being exposed to sun from 11 to 4 in the morning.
 
 The summer coaching camp, organized by Regional Sports Centre, has also introduced several new courses this year which include handwriting improvement.
 
 "This year there are 32 programmes offered by the   of which 27 are sports oriented. The rest are related to arts and crafts, culture and personality development," said RSC secretary S A S Navaz.
 
