HYDERABAD: It’s been over four months since the demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes forced people to move on to digital transactions, but one section of people who saw no change in the way they handle money are workers in small and mid-size industrial units.

 Unlike small-time traders and even some roadside vendors, digital money holds no meaning for an estimated 15-20% of the industrial labour in the city. Around 30% of workers have bank accounts after industry owners opened it for them, but they remain reluctant to go cashless. Most of them haven’t used their accounts even once.
 
 “Most of my workers have bank accounts, up from 30% prior to demonetisation to 90% now. But most of them insist on cash payments as they need to see a currency note at the end of the day. They don’t believe it when we say that the money will be transferred to their account,” said Meela Jayadev, managing director of  , which manufactures PVC pipes.
 
 He, however, is sympathetic to the cash demand. “On the other hand, they need cash to make small purchases. They shop from small kirana shops and cannot frequent banks every time to withdraw money,” he added. 
 
 Workers narrate a similar tale. “I don’t have time to run about in banks to withdraw money. Cashless transactions sounds fancy, but is of little use to me,” said Shankar Kosgi, a labourer.
 
 For another daily-wager, Rajeshwar Hamali, who works in a paper manufacturing unit, the digital economy may as well be in a foreign country. “I don’t have a bank account and I don’t need it. While there was cash crunch for a while, our factory owner took care of us. We are past the problem now,” he said.
 
 Industry experts believe that it was the quick re-monetisation that prevented digital transactions from seeping all the way to the ground level. “Small industries like fabrication units have remained untouched despite many apps of banks, Paytm, BHIM etc. coming in. Industries will take time to adopt such options. Also, after the initial cash crunch, money circulation increased, thereby reducing the urgency for small industries to adopt a cashless system,” said Ravindra Modi, president of Federation of Telangana and   and Industry (FTAPCCI).
 
