Cleared/Anil (736)

 Coimbatore: Vinodh*, a 17-year-old from the city who joined Anna University for engineering in August 2015, had to sleep on the hostel verandah the entire first semester and the first half of his second semester. The reason: his extremely loud  . Not a single boy was willing to share a room with him because of this issue.
 
 During one of his weekend visits to the city a year ago, he visited an ENT specialist, who diagnosed him with a Saw Palate. The student, who had developed inferiority complex because of this issue, almost instantly agreed to have a surgery to correct his situation. It’s not an isolated case. The number of youngsters willing to go under the knife to stop snoring is on the rise. 
 
 Snoring usually occurs when the flow of air through mouth and nose is physically obstructed. This can happen due to an obstruction in the nasal airways like a deviated septum or nasal polyps; the throat and tongue muscles being too relaxed and collapsing during deep sleep; the throat tissue being too bulky due to tonsils or the soft palate; and the dangling tissue in the back of the mouth being too long.
 
 Snoring, doctors said, was initially detected more in obese or overweight patients, but now seen in lean people too. “This is mainly due to anatomical obstructions in the airways, which have to be removed,” said consultant (pulmonology, sleep disorders and interventional pulmonology) at Sri Ramakrishna Hospitals, Dr N Loganathan Dr Loganathan.
 
 Expressing a similar view, sleep surgeon at PSG Hospitals, Dr R Anand Anand said, “Overweight patients can just exercise more and reduce weight as it will go a long way in helping their breathing issues.”
 
 Obesity due to overeating and sedentary lifestyle can cause snoring, agreed Dr R Muthukumar, professor of ENT, Madras Medical College. “We come across many newly-married couples on the brink of divorce due to the snoring problem. Though we do make patients undergo a polysomnography, which testes their nasal activity, brain activity, hypertension, oxygen supply and all the vitals, it will be best if some lifestyle changes are tried out first. Regular exercising and proper diet are a must. Only when they don’t work and in cases of anatomical reaction, should an invasive method be considered,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that the number of youngsters eager to undergo invasive procedures was high, Dr N Ramakrishnan, senior consultant (sleep medicine), Apollo Hospitals, said they often didn’t want to try lifestyle changes like exercising and losing weight. “They prefer surgery, because it is a quick fix. Snoring issues in youngsters are often due to anatomical issues. During a study we recently published, we found many lean people were also suffering from snoring. We Indians may be susceptible to it because of our facial structure,” Ramakrishnan, also director of Nithra Institute of Sleep Sciences, said. 
 
 “We suggest surgery only for people below 50 years where carrying around the continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine, which blows air with continuous pressure down one’s throat, is strenuous and affects one’s quality of life,” Dr R Anand said. 
 
 Snoring, doctors said, has over the years become more of a social problem for college students, newly-weds and young working professionals whose job demand frequent travel. “Most snoring patients are brought by their bed partners -- either their spouses or roommates,” Dr N Loganathan said.
 
 “A few months ago, a newly-married girl brought her husband to us on the fifth day of their marriage, claiming that she couldn’t sleep at all due to his loud snoring problem. She even told that she had been even contemplating divorce,” Dr Anand said. “However, we managed a surgery two days later and they returned home happy,” he added.
 
 Sleep surgeons concurred that there was a spike in the number of youngsters coming in for surgery to solve snoring problems. “Around five years ago, there was hardly a case in a month but today at least one to two cases go under the knife a month,” Dr Anand said.
 
 With advanced treatment, doctors pointed out, invasive procedures have become easier now. “We have a lot of advanced techniques such as radio frequency, coblation techniques and endoscopies, which take hardly five to 90 minutes maximum,” consultant (ENT) surgeon of Vikram ENT Hospital, Dr Anjana Vishwanathan said. “While some cases can be handled as outpatient procedures, others take a day’s stay in the hospital,” she added. (*Name changed)
 
 
