Chennai: Almost two decades into being, cloud and virtualisation software giant VMware is going all out with bridging the gender gap at its offices. In a bid to reduce isolation among women, the company is actively working on establishing a diverse and inclusive work environment. Niranjan Thirumale, VP, VMware & MD of VMware India R&D talks to TOI about why the company is dedicated to bringing in more women and how they are making their offices more diverse. Excerpts:

 Why is bridging the gender gap important to VMware? What is the gender ratio at VMware? 
 
 We are not doing for the feel-good factor. It is a strategic business imperative to reduce the gender gap. Having more women at work offers better business outcome and innovation. 
 
 What is important to note is that our initiatives on gender diversity are not led by the HR teams alone. It is business led. All folks at the leadership level have responsibilities in bridging this gap. 
 
 Today, women represent 23% of the global workforce at VMware. We are not entirely happy with how we are. But there is good news. 
 
 We commissioned a third party to do a study on gender pay parity. They looked at various roles, calibrated it with experience levels and compared pay. The conclusion of the study was that women earn 99% of what men earn at VMware.
 
 How can one make the workplace more diverse?
 
 Everything lies in how you set the culture at the workplace. There is a subconscious bias and systems at companies are trying to break this down. Women need a lot more hand-holding and mentoring and the number of role models for them is limited. 
 
 We have a program that offers purposeful one-on-one mentoring with leadership across the board.
 
  We have a program where we make a call for mentees and mentors and it is a serious task. One has to justify why they want to be a mentee/mentor and agree to invest a few hours every month. 
 
 As a mentor, I have 2 meetings every month to listen to their issues and guide them. 
 
 The most common concerns that are raised are on automation and how one can sustain for the next 10-15 years. Women also want to know how to build the right network and be visible at work.
 
 
