NASHIK: The lack of public transport services by the   (MSRTC) and high autorickshaw rates are forcing citizens to opt for their own vehicles.

 This trend is more than evident in the number of vehicle registrations with the   (RTO).
 
 The RTO recorded 90,905 vehicles registered between April 2016 and February 2017. Of this, 81,017 are privately-owned vehicles like motorcycles, scooters and cars. This translates to a total of 89%.
 
 The percentage was the same in the April 2015 to March 2016 when the personal vehicle bracket stood at a total of 97,873 being cars, scooters and motorcycles. The total vehicles registered at the RTO the same year was 1,09,802.
 
 Citizens have complained that as the city continues to develop, the MSRTC is not keeping up with the needs of bus passengers. With new localities springing up, people choosing to take an ST bus have to walk for at least a kilometre or two to reach the bus stand. This also entails a 45-minute waiting period for buses in certain pockets.
 
 Aditya Gaidhani, a student from Nashik Road’s Samangaon area, said, “Personal vehicles are useful to go to vegetable markets or nearby places. But, if I have to travel from one part of the city to another, Nashik Road to Ashwin Nagar on the Ambad side for example, the best option is a city bus. You many never get a direct bus on time as the ST department decides the slots. Commuters have to take a bus from Nashik Road to CBS and another one from CBS to Ambad side to reach Ashwin Nagar. This is a tedious affair and so the best option is to take your own vehicle rather than opting for the city bus.”
 
 Citizens also claim that buses and autorickshaws ply on the city’s main roads, while there is no service in the interior and remote areas. If someone from the city’s interior aeas manages to find an autorickshaw, the driver often charges exorbitant rates.
 
 Rakesh Gupta, a resident of the Pipleline road along the Gangapur Road area, admitted to such an experience recently. “A few days ago, I travelled to Shirdi. The autorickshaw fare from my residence to Mumbai Naka, which is hardly 7km was Rs 100. For the ST fare from Mumbai Naka to Shirdi I paid Rs 108. The distance between Mumbai Naka and Shirdi is around 100km. We have to pay the price as there is no proper ST service in the city.”
 
