CHANDIGARH: An   (ASI) of   has been dismissed from service for   from two persons by threatening to slap   against them. The dismissed ASI,  , was heading the anti-narcotics cell of Ferozepur police. He is on the run, and is facing accusations of extorting Rs 8.7 lakh from two families in different cases.

 In both the cases, the ASI allegedly picked up two youths on March 30 and let them off on April 3. It has been alleged that he took Rs 4.7 lakh from the family of Khachar Wala village native Gurpal Singh for releasing his son, Lovepreet Singh, and Rs 4 lakh from the family of Rana Singh, of Dulla Singh Wala village, for releasing his nephew Jaswinder Singh.
 
 Police said the ASI had picked up Lovepreet while he was playing volleyball at Khachar Wala village and Jaswinder while he was going to his village, Dulla Singh Wala, on motorcycle the same day. Bathinda zone inspector general of police (IGP) M S Chhina on Wednesday confirmed that the services of ASI Hardev had been terminated after an internal probe found him guilty.
 
 A case of wrongful confinement and under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Hardev on April 23. Another case under same charges was registered against him on Tuesday, after a new complaint. IGP Chhina told TOI, “Farmer Gurpal Singh met me on April 23. He narrated how ASI Hardev picked up his son on March 30 and demanded Rs 5 lakh for not booking him under the NDPS Act. He arranged Rs 4.7 lakh by mortgaging jewellery, a piece of land and borrowing from his relatives to pay money to ASI Harvdev. Similarly, he demanded money from Rana Singh. He, too, mortgaged jewellery and took loans from relatives to pay an illegal gratification of Rs 4 lakh to save his nephew. Jaswinder, whose father Balbir Singh died a few years ago, was going on a motorcycle when the ASI took him to the anti-narcotics cell and accused him of selling heroin.”
 
 The IGP said the accused cop was on the run and police were making efforts to arrest him.
 
 
