Ghaziabad/Noida: The   is staring at a   loss of over Rs 80 crore in the financial year 2017-18 owing to closure of 106 liquor outlets in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts. 

 These shops were shut down on April 1 after closure notices were issued to them by the excise department on the basis of an order of the   that prohibited liquor shops of any kind within 500m radius of national and state highways.
 
 The order has affected 47 outlets in GB Nagar including one restro bar in Sector 63 of Noida adjoining NH-24. In neighbouring Ghaziabad, a total of 59 shops have been affected even though a survey by district-level officials did not identify any bar or restro bar within the limits.
 
 “The restro bar in Noida has shut down on its own 15 days ago, almost immediately after our department issued the closure orders. From among those outlets that have been closed in the district, 25 have been allowed to relocate following fulfillment of necessary norms. However, the department will incur a revenue loss of over Rs 40 in the current financial year owing to the closures,” district excise officer, GB Nagar, Kuldeep Yadav told TOI.
 
 The excise department had raked up a total of Rs 638 crore in the district in the financial year 2016-17. In Ghaziabad, the excise department is facing a revenue loss of over Rs 40 crore although 30 shops affected by the order have already been provided alternative locations. The targeted revenue generation in Ghaziabad has been pegged at Rs 890 crore in the financial year 2017-18.
 
 The maximum number of liquor outlets affected by the order in NCR were located along NH-24 and NH-91. Those located within 500 meters along SH-57 in Ghaziabad and SH-100 in GB Nagar have also been closed.
 
 A large number of liquor shops located along NH-58 in Ghaziabad have escaped the axe as the stretch of the highway between UP Gate and Meerut Road T-point had been denotified by the   (NHAI) in December 2016.
 
 Residents said the closure, which is aimed at curbing drunken driving, is practically untenable if checking is not conducted on the roads by police. 
 
 “Drivers addicted to alcohol will invariably go beyond 500 meters of highways to fetch their drinks. It is rare to see cops checking drunken drivers on highways in NCR with alcohol-testing meters and kits. The onus lies on drivers and enforcement agencies like the traffic department. Unless steps are taken to ensure that exemplary punishment is given for drunken driving, drivers will continue to give the rules a miss,” Ghaziabad-based social activist Alok Kumar told TOI.
 
