NAGPUR: Plans to have a wildlife crime forensics lab to perform DNA analysis at the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL) at Nagpur has been shelved.

 “The plan has been put off as the expenditure required for the setting up the testing facilities was much higher than the expenses towards testing the samples,” said senior RFSL officials.
 
 Currently, though the RFSL at   tests wildlife samples, the facility is for analysis of toxicological and ballistic samples only. Hence, the forest department has to send wildlife samples from the region to either   (WII) in Dehradun, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology ( ), Hyderabad, Botanical Society of India (BSI) or Zoological Society of India (ZSI), Lucknow.
 
 “The national labs are already loaded with work and hence it takes months for receiving reports from these labs. It is quite time-consuming which affects not only investigations but also court cases,” said wildlife officials.
 
 The issue of setting up a wildlife analysis lab had also figured in a joint meeting of forest department and   (WCCB) at   on September 15 last. Officials from customs, police, and regional forensic lab among others also attended the meeting.
 
 After a request by state's principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) office to set up a wildlife DNA forensics lab at Nagpur, Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories, Mumbai, was positive.
 
 Earlier, a similar proposal was forwarded to the state government for wildlife DNA analysis lab at Maharashtra Animal Husbandry & Fisheries Sciences (MAFSU)-run Nagpur Veterinary College, Seminary Hills.
 
 However, as the research lab was to cost between Rs20-25 crore, the government sought its feasibility by seeking details of wildlife samples sent by the forest department to other labs in last three years and cost thereon. As there were not many samples whose analysis cost was not over Rs3 lakh, state was not keen to set up lab at veterinary college.
 
 “As the data could not substantiate the proposal, the finance department asked to work out the proposal with regional lab at Nagpur. This was the last development in the proposal,” said wildlife spokesperson and divisional forest officer (DFO) GK Vashishtha.
 
 “Though we have requisite infrastructure and expertise and have no problem in starting wildlife DNA lab here, the cost towards additional staff and primer sequences needed as part of technology transfer from CCMB is too high as compared to samples,” said RFSL officials.
 
