As the political uncertainty in the state takes a toll on governance, agricultural sector is getting badly hit. 

 Farmers have had a bad Kuruvai season and there is no sign of getting a decent Samba too. Last year, when former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was in power, the government announced a special package of `64.3 crore by the middle of August itself to help farmers take up direct sowing in the delta districts during the Samba season. The reason cited then was that Kuruvai was given a miss and the storage level in Mettur reservoir was precarious. A similar situation prevails now and it is already the third week of September, but there is no sign of any special initiative from the government to provide relief to the drought-hit farmers. "The EPS government, which is battling a crisis, is still undecided on a special package. It is not bothered about release of water from Mettur either," said an official. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is yet to hold a review meeting to assess the situation, he said.
 
 The south west monsoon, which is likely to retreat in the coming days, has been surplus till now. The rainfall received since June, according to the meteorological department, is 44% more than the normal. But the storage level in Mettur reservoir, the lifeline of Cauvery delta, is precariously low. Even release of water from Karnataka reservoirs in recent weeks did not help much. As per statistics put out by the public works department, Mettur has only 39.34tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water as on Thursday as against a total capacity of 93.47tmcft. Half the storage is not enough to sustain the long term crop in about nine lakh acres — the expected coverage under Samba this year. The yield was less than 50% last year due to poor monsoon and erratic release of Mettur water.
 
 Though the government released water from Mettur on September 20 last year, there was not enough water to save the crops and the dam was prematurely closed on November 11. The government also had a tough time in managing the drinking water crisis in the state. The state kept repeatedly pleading before Karnataka and also moved the apex court for drinking water.
 
 The scope of raising Samba this year depends purely on the northeast monsoon. "We are in a similar situation like last year. We neither have Cauvery nor groundwater. It is not advisable to go in for Samba without water being released into Cauvery. Let the government build up enough storage till the onset of the northeast monsoon," said Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association general secretary S Ranganathan. Due to the indiscriminate drawing of groundwater for Kuruvai, the TDS level has gone up in groundwater in the delta. Still,   took place in 2.75 lakh acres and pulses in 0.68 lakh acres during the kuruvai season, said another official.
 
 The state received only 43.43tmcft water from Karnataka as against Cauvery tribunal’s award of 134tmcft for the first four months of the season this year. Inflow has also dipped. But   has not raised its concerns yet. Karnataka’s four reservoirs across Cauvery received 125tmcft during the season. Farmers recall the "flip flop" of the TN counsel in the Supreme Court recently that state would agree to the contentious Mekedatu dam across river Cauvery. The opposition flayed and the chief minister, who holds PWD portfolio, had to come out with a clarification that his government’s stand remained unchanged. "The government neither talks about poor receipt of water from Karnataka nor does it hold consultative meeting with farmers on Samba," Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Association president S Dhanapalan said.
 
 Experts say water saving technologies have to be mainstreamed to save the agricultural sector. "Micro-irrigation should be promoted," said MSSRF Ecotechnology Programme director R Rengalakshmi. Tamil Nadu Agriculture University vice-chancellor K Ramasamy exhorted farmers to opt for modified crop variety of CR 1009 Sub-I (submergence-tolerance gene) and drought/flood resistant varieties like 130-day duration TKM 13, besides ADT 43 and 49. "While we suggest alternative crops, farmers prefer paddy due to availability of minimum support price from government and machineries that come with subsidy," he added.
 
