KOCHI: The high court has upheld an order issued by   (ASC) stipulating that no entrance examination conducted by non-governmental agencies will be valid for MBA admissions. 

 A division bench of the court upheld the order issued by ASC on June 7, 2016 that said no entrance examination conducted by non-governmental agencies shall be accepted for MBA admissions except KMAT (Kerala) conducted by the universities in Kerala under the supervision of ASC, CAT conducted by  , and CMAT conducted by AICTE. The order had said that score of MAT conducted by   shall not be accepted after May 2016.
 
 The division bench was considering a petition filed by Divya Shaji and Swathy O of Pathanamthitta, MBA students of Believers Church Carmel Engineering College at Ranny in Pathanamthitta. After appearing in a test and interview conducted at the college, the petitioners had obtained admissions under NRI quota in July 2016. They had also appeared for the Management Aptitude Test (MAT) conducted by All India Management Association (AIMA) in September 2016.
 
 When the college sought approval of the admissions from ASC, it had declined to grant approval for 10 students, including the petitioners. The petitioners' counsel argued that they belong to NRI category, who are not required to clear any eligibility test for getting admissions.
 
 In the judgment, the court pointed out that the admissions were given to the petitioners even before they appeared for MAT. The admissions were also against the proceedings issued by the ASC but the college had not chosen to challenge those proceedings. However, the correctness of ASC's proceedings was considered by the high court in another case and it was upheld, the court said.
 
 Regarding NRI quota, the court said if the version of the petitioners that no merit rating is required for them is accepted, it will be totally alien to the scheme of professional education and the mandate given by the   through different rulings, holding that there shall be no compromise with merit. Further, the court pointed out that NRI candidates are also required to give the National Entrance Eligibility Test (NEET) in respect of medical admissions as per a recent Supreme Court order.
 
