AGRA: The   (AMC) has decided to deposit funds for various smart city projects in the city under one bank account. A credit of Rs 1,000 crore will be made to the account for several development works. The decision was taken at a recently held meeting for setting up of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV).
 
 The SPV named ‘Smart City Agra Limited’ will be responsible for approval, planning and release of funds as well as to implement, manage, operate, monitor and evaluate the smart city project works.
  
 According to AMC officials, banks wishing to have the account will have to submit a proposal. The money deposited will have an increased rate of interest and the bank should also give a commitment of contributing towards development works.
  
 Chief finance officer of AMC, Hariram Gupta, said, “Banks have been asked to submit proposals only after considering two conditions. First is an increased rate of interest and secondly, they should contribute towards development of the city.”
  
 Agra was placed under the ambitious smart city development scheme on September 20 last year and the civic body has a makeover plan worth Rs 2,212 crore. Of the many projects, retrofitting of 2,250 acres of land, establishment of a waste management system,   (ITMS), better public transportation facilities and a technologically advanced city surveillance system are in the pipeline. According to AMC’s smart city proposal, 78% of the total funds will be utilized for area-based development (ABD) under which retrofitting of 2,250 acres of selected areas around the  , Agra Fort, Jama Masjid and parts of the old city will be done.
  
 Apart from ABD, Rs 224.2 crore will be spent on improvement of water and sewer system, Rs 2.23 crore on betterment of sanitation and hygiene and Rs 114 crore on modern housing facilities and beautification of parks. AMC officials also said that of the Rs 2,212 crore, the central and state governments will provide around Rs 500 crore each. Rest of the money will be made available through various public-private partnerships.
