KOCHI:  's order making consultation with the high court mandatory in the matter of appointment of government pleaders is an affront to the powers of the government, says former law minister and advocate M  . 

 "Appointment of government pleaders is the prerogative of the government. The Supreme Court can   but the power to select or appoint them always vests with the government. Anything beyond that is an affront to the powers of the government, regardless of the political party in power. The order needs to be reviewed. We should be able to ensure the competency of government pleaders and there is nothing wrong in the court providing guidelines for such purpose. The court interfering in the matter of selecting government pleaders is not proper constitutionally," Vijayakumar said.
 
 The former law minister, however, said that efforts must be made to ensure competency of the lawyers being appointed. "Governments making appointments only on the basis of political connections is not acceptable. Governments being open to review in such matters would be good for the profession and for the government too. One reason for the failure of the government in many cases is the lack of competency of government pleaders," he said.
 
 T Asaf Ali, former director general of prosecution, pointed out that the SC order may be difficult to implement due to the lack of uniformity in rules prevailing in each state.
 
 "The order regarding the Punjab and Haryana model is regarding the rules existing there. As per the rules in Kerala, the state government can appoint. Advocate general will give a list and the government pleaders are appointed on its basis. Therefore, there cannot be an order that is binding across India. Wherever the state government has legislative powers, they have the power to make rules under executive powers," he said. 
 
 Further, the relationship between a government and its lawyer is a client-lawyer relationship. As long as the client does not want to change his lawyer, the lawyer can remain, the former DGP added.
 
 However, the Supreme Court's judgment found favour with former additional advocate general K A Jaleel. The judgment will result in ensuring competency among government lawyers as the high court usually doesn't interfere with the list of lawyers submitted by the government for appointment as government pleaders. The approval is automatic and it is very rare for the high court to interfere, he said.
 
