AGRA: A 20-member Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team, including Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) personnel, arrived in Mathura on Wednesday to begin investigations into the Mathura's Jawahar Bagh violence that claimed 29 lives on June 2 last year.
 
  The Allahabad High Court had ordered a   into the violence while disposing a bunch PILs on March 2. The CBI team arrived at Jawahar Bagh, which prior to June 2 was under illegal occupation of cult leader Ram Vriksha Yadav and his followers for two years, and examined the spot from where police breached the boundary wall to make an entry into the park before the violence broke out.
  
  Though the local police had entered the park after breaking the wall with a JCB with the intention to convince the illegal occupants to vacate the park, they were attacked leading to the death of superintendent of police Mukul Diwedi and station officer  . The police were forced to retaliate, and the violence that ensued claimed 29 lives and left over 100 injured.
  
  According to sources, the CBI team also questioned local officials from the police and the administration to get   of the events that led to the violence.
  
  CBI had registered an FIR on the basis of a case lodged by Mathura police into the incident last month. CBI named seven persons in the FIR on various charges, including murder, attempt to murder, rioting and attacking policemen on duty.
  
  It may be recalled that the UP government had granted permission to Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena (SBSS) cult leader Ram Vriksha Yadav and his supporters to hold a demonstration inside Jawahar Bagh for two days in January 2014. But the group occupied the sprawling public park for over two years. The squatters were evicted amid the violence following a  .
  
  A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including explosives, were recovered from the huts erected inside the park during the illegal occupation. Delhi-based BJP leader and Supreme Court lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay and Mathura-resident   had moved the court demanding a CBI inquiry.
  
  The court has given CBI two months' time to submit a sealed report to the court. The government had ordered a one-man judicial commission to probe into the matter, which was disbanded after the high court ordered the  
