PUNE: The   has granted an   till February 16 to former world billiards champion Michael J Ferreira and two others in a case registered on January 3 by an investor here related to the   multi-level marketing cheating case.

 QNet — formerly known as GoldQuest and QuestNet — is under investigation for a multi-crore rupees multi-level e-marketing activity operated in a pyramid structure. The firm would attract investors against promises of handsome returns but failed to deliver on its promises, prompting cases across the country. 
 
 In May last year, Justice Mrudula Bhatkar of the high court had rejected the anticipatory bail pleas of Ferriera and four others in another QNet case lodged with the Oshiwara police in Mumbai in 2013. The Supreme Court, too, rejected their special leave petitions in September last year against the high court’s order and asked them to surrender within a week.
 
 Ferreira and two of his associates, Malcolm N Desai and Srinivasa Rao Vanka, who are since in custody of Mumbai police’s economic offences wing, directly moved the high court for anticipatory bail in connection with the Pune case. This was after a Pune magisterial court issued a warrant for transfer of their custody to the Pune police for the case lodged by Sangvi resident Mahesh Uttamrao Mane.
 
 On January 17, a division bench of the high court, while rejecting Ferreira and his aides’ petition for investigation by one and the same agency, had directed them to move the single-judge bench dealing with anticipatory bail pleas. As such, their pleas related to the Pune case came up before Justice Bhatkar.
 
 The applicants/accused argued that they cannot be charged twice if the prosecution case in the Pune matter is similar to the one registered in Mumbai in 2013 and, as such, a continuous offence. That, there were no allegations against them and the Pune complainant’s case was that he paid money to QNet in August last year — after their anticipatory bail pleas were rejected by the high court and the they were not continuing with their business in the name of QNet or its subsidiary Vihaan.
 
 The prosecution opposed the pleas, arguing that the applicants/accused were very much involved in the net-marketing activities of QNet or Vihaan even after May last year and that the accounts were opened at different places by QNet or Vihaan and huge amounts were deposited.
 
 Justice Bhatkar observed in her order, “This court has rejected the anticipatory bail pleas of these applicants/accused and it is held that a big scam is running at national and international-level where many citizens were duped. However, if this (Pune case) is to be treated as an independent case, then the investigating officer ought to bring on record the nexus between the applicants/accused and the money invested by the complainant. Considering the submissions and facts of the case, interim pre-arrest bail is granted to the applicants till February 16 on certain terms and conditions.” 
 
 The matter is slated for next hearing on February 16. 
 
 
