PATNA:   (WRD) principal secretary Arun Kumar Singh on Thursday said experts and delegates participating in the two-day international conference on ‘Incessant Ganga’ or unencumbered flow of water through the river, would throw insights on the imbalances caused in the river’s natural eco system by human interventions, including by the Farakka barrage and now the proposed barrages across the river as part of the inland waterways.

 “For the international conference, the Farakka barrage is not the only issue to be discussed. It is also not just about sedimentation or siltation in the riverbed and its flood plains,” WRD principal secretary Singh said. “The experts would look into all aspects of human interventions, including Farakka barrage (and now even the proposed barrage for inland waterways) which have brought the river to its present situation,” he added.
 
 The conference would begin at a premier hotel here from February 25. Singh said as many as 70 research papers from experts were received by Water and   (WALMI), a subsidiary wing of the WRD that is hosting the conference. CM Nitish Kumar and WRD minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh would be actively engaged with the conference. 
 
 Of the 70 papers, around 50 have been shortlisted for presentation at the four technical sessions. The prominent participants would be Prof Murli Dhar Singh from WALMI and senior engineers of the department, including engineer-in-chief (planning and monitoring) Indu Bhushan Kumar. The papers would also be presented by experts from Bangladesh, Germany, Netherlands and Nepal, as well as from the states through which the river Ganga passes and others concerned. 
 
 Among the environmentalists and water experts who would give their understanding and insights on the situation facing the Ganga, its flora and fauna and human beings who depend on the eco system of the river include environmentalist and   awardee Chandi Prasad Bhattaji, Magsaysay award winner water conservationist Rajendra Singh, campaigner against water pollution Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, environmentalist and water expert Vandana Shiva, Jayanta Bandopadhyaya and eminent economist Bharat Jhunjhunwala.
 
 
