PILIBHIT: Superintendent of police Dev   has contrived a new system for criminal database management (CDM), which will assist police in identifying and nabbing criminals in shorter spans of time.
 
  The system is based on collection and exchange of crucial information about criminals, who are taken into custody on the basis of suspicion, or arrested by police, or lodged in jails, or released from jails on bail orders.
  
  Under this system, the district police will now maintain detailed digital record of both convicted and undertrial criminals, for which duties have been assigned up to police beat level.
  
  An effective coordination with district jail as well as DCRBs (district crime record bureau) of neighbouring districts will also be ensured for the success of system.
  
  Giving details to TOI, the SP said that CDM had specifically been devised to make constant monitoring of criminals, which inevitably needed comprehensive information about them such as their particulars and criminal history, modus operendi adopted in crimes, types of crimes in which they remained involved, areas of their penetration and their criminal network, etc.
  
  Although   carries out duty to compile criminals’ record, in the absence of any systematic method of collecting the needed information for their retrieval, a gap between police trap and criminals was persisting, while the new system would eliminate this gap and would enable cops chase criminals with support of important information.
  
  He said the system would function at three stages, and at a time, starting with 408 police beats in the district where in-charge officers of beats would fill up criminal information forms on regular basis, and would send the forms to DCRB after getting duly verified by their respective station house officers (SHOs). The DCRB would maintain separate folder of each criminal for storing individual crime data, he said.
  
  At police station level, the detailed information of arrested and suspicious criminals would be complied for their exchange with DCRB while the in-charge officers designated to carry out jail duty would maintain effective coordination with district jail to collect data of criminals lodged in and released from jail, he said.
  
  These police personnel would also compile information about the visitors of criminals in jail and would store their videos as well as criminals’ identification marks at the time of their release from jail, Ranjan said.
  
  The police personnel deployed on jail posts had been linked with a whatsapp group for prompt exchange of criminal data that also included the SP, ASP, COs and the SHOs as group members, he said.
  
  Ranjan said that a separate whatsapp group of DCRBs of   and its neighbouring districts namely Kheri, Bareilly and   had also been created for inter-district exchange of criminal information. “This would help nabbing those criminals who live in one district but commit crime in other”, Ranjan added.
  
  Apart from this, the DCRB was being developed as encyclopedia of criminals, he said.
