CHENNAI: Until recently, doctors who took care of families in their neighbourhood, made occasional house calls and listened to tales of joy or woe were common in the city. Many such doctors are now working with corporatised clinics or have joined large corporate hospitals.

 This, a group of doctors believes, has pushed up cost and triggered unethical practices such as needless scans and surgeries. Sometimes, it even tempts doctors to take kickbacks from scan centres or accept favours from pharmaceutical companies. On January 21, a meeting convened by Citizens and Doctors Forum for Ethical Healthcare in India at IIT-M will make plans to set up sustainable clinics with   contribu tions. "By next month, we plan to start one in Kasturba Nagar, Adyar. Some 15 years ago, we had more than half a dozen doctors who worked from single room clinics. Now we just have two such clinics. They are forever overcrowded. People prefer such clinics because they are affordable," said forum convenor L N Rajaraman.
 
 A doctor in a neighbourhood clinic makes patients feel secure, a feeling often lacking in a world of specialists and super specialists, said orthopaedic surgeon Dr   of  , one of the forum's key members. "If a patient with a headache goes to a neurologist there are chances he will undergo a brain scan and several other tests before he is diagnosed with a dental cavity.
 
 One of our primary jobs is to refer patients to the right doctor and ensure the treatment they receive is necessary, "he said.
 
 The forum will talk to civic groups, volunteers, philanthropists."We are encouraging young doctors, undergrads and postgrads to join us.We are even considering giving them partnerships to encourage them. But the residents of that area will have to decide what suits them best. They can pay the doctor a salary or only consultant fee. But these doctors will record and maintain the case histories of the families that patronise the clinic," said Dr Chowdary .
 
 One of the most common problems residents face is in getting a physician to come home and declare death of a loved one. "For this, doctors and patients should have a good relationship," he said.
 
 The forum expects support from other doctors' bodies. The Indian Radiological and   (IRIA) passed a resolution saying radiologists in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry would stop all unethical incentives, interpretation charges, cuts and commissions paid to physicians from December 1, 2016.
 
 "If that really happens our clinics will network with them," said Rajaraman.
 
