LUCKNOW: As   contemplates   consuming power above a set limit, the   sector may be at an advantage. Presently, the commission adopts a ‘telescopic’   structure wherein more power consumption invites higher charges. As in the case of all consumers, electricity tariff for industries too increases from Rs 7 per unit to Rs 7.60 per unit when usage increases. Under the proposed changes in the tariff structure, expected to be introduced in the next couple of months, a unit consuming power more than a certain quantum would see tariff rates coming down.

  chairman, Desh Deepak Verma said the move would not only stop industries from moving out of the state but also help attract higher investment and encourage operating units to go in for expansion. 
 
 The commission also plans to provide 20% rebate on tariff to industrial units which operate between 10pm and 6 am. So far, the provision was applicable only to steel industries. “The commission is in talks with various stakeholders for extending rebate to all kinds of industrial units,” he said. 
 
 The electricity regulatory also plans to waive off the system loading charges levied on industries. The charge is applicable at the rate of Rs 1,000 per KVA/Hr. Big industrial units, with a load often in the range of 100 to 500 KVA/Hr, thereby attracting system loading charges ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Verma said though charges are applicable only one time, it often acts as a deterrent for industries seeking entry into UP. 
 
 Power tariff for industries in UP is among the highest, ranging from Rs 7 to Rs 7.60 per unit. In comparison, industrial power tariff in Gujarat and Maharashtra ranges from Rs 4.5 to Rs 6 per unit. 
 
 UPERC records also show industries account for 22.02% of the total consumption in UP. In comparison, industries in Gujarat consume 51.95% of the total electricity supplied in the state grid. Verma said less consumption by industries creates imbalance in the over usage pattern. “Power consumption in domestic and agriculture varies within a day. Boosting industries can, therefore, bring in some stability to the overall consumption pattern,” he said.
 
 
