Mysuru: Cases of traffic volations have gone up in recent days in Mysuru. Residents including many senior citizens have appealed to the city traffic police to extend the monitoring system.

 Citizens expressed their concern about the traffic system during the grievances meet conducted by the Mysuru city traffic police at Krishnaraja sub-division traffic police station here on Saturday.
 
 Chamarajpuram resident Sudesh pointed out the poor signal system and parking confusion on city’s main streets including JLB Road. “This issues should be resolved under priority,” he said.
 
 Vinod Kumar from Kuvempunagar highlighted that children below 18 years are driving two wheelers and are ignoring traffic signals. “Unfortunately, they have no respect for the traffic cops or the rules. I had seen few motorists abuse traffic home guards and even traffic police officials,” he said. He suggested the police to install CCTV cameras to check traffic violations and convey the same to the parents of such culprits, he said.
 
 Similarly, many of them opined to install CCTV cameras on ring road and service roads as there have been highest traffic violations and accidents.
 
 City cab driver Nagaraj complained about rash driving on Nanjangud Highway and demanded to install barricades to curb speeding vehicles. He pointed that bus stops near junctions are causing traffic jams and the need to relocate the bus shelters, he said.
 
 KR traffic sub division assistant commissioner of police (ACP) K N Madaiah addressed the public queries. Around 8.10 lakh registered vehicles and additionally, 2 lakh vehicles regularly enter the city from outside. While roads have not been widened in many parts, it is disturbing the easy flow of vehicles.
 
 “Many youngsters are violating traffic rules. We have also approached the academic institutions but it did not help much. Parents should guide their children and ask them to follow the traffic rules as it is best way to avoid road accidents,” he said.
 
 The department has planned to install signal lights function based on sensor of the vehicle density. We have also sent proposals for 100 CCTVs to be installed on the outskirts of the city, he added.
 
 He said the police have registered 4,309 signal jump and 7,385 triple riding cases in 2016. Around 100 fatal accidents were reported and 614 non-fatal accidents were registered. He expressed that necessity of another traffic police station in Kuvempunagar to manage the traffic. KR traffic jurisdiction is huge and it is unable to manage with less staff, he claimed.
 
 KR sub-division traffic inspector SP Nagegowda and staff attended the event. All five traffic police stations conducted the grievances meet.
 
 
