BENGALURU: A   for a ransom of Rs 1.5 crore was   in north Bengaluru on Tuesday. Police   in this regard.

 G Vimala is unhurt but in shock, a senior police officer said, adding they recovered a Maruti Swift Dzire and Bajaj Avenger used by the kidnappers. Krishna Chennaiah, 33, of Mutyalanagara, M Vijayakumar alias Viji, 35, and Srinivas Ankaiah, 35, allegedly plotted the abduction after seeing the lavish lifestyle led by Vimala's family.
 
 A police source said Krishna is Vimala's neighbour in Mutyalanagara, near Yeshwantpur. Vimala's two sons are in the  , and her daughter is a software engineer in the US. After abducting Vimala around 1pm Tuesday, the accused called her elder son, G Shivkumar, and placed a demand for Rs 1.5 crore in ransom.
 
 The drama began a bit earlier - around 11.30 am when only Vimala and Shivkumar were at home. The younger son, G Sundar, had gone out on work. Shivkumar received a call on his mobile, saying he had won a lottery . A month ago, Shivkumar had purchased a Royal Enfield-500cc Bullet, and the caller said the lucky dip was from the same purchase. 
 
 The caller asked Shivku mar to drop in at a courier shop near   to collect the lottery prize. “When I reached the courier office, I found that it was a prank call. I returned home and found that my mother was not in. I thought she was visiting a relative, as she often does, and I waited outside as the house was locked,“ Shivkumar said.
 
 Around 2.30pm, Shivkumar got a call from a mobile number; the man at the other end said they had kidnapped his mother for ransom.
 
 “Wait for the call, we will call you by evening. Don't dare approach the police, or you will see your mother's body ,“ he said, and disconnected.
 
 Shivkumar called his younger brother Sundar and the siblings decided to lodge a police complaint. “Shivkumar arrived at the station around 6.30pm and narrated the incident. We registered a complaint, and DCP Labhuram for med a 35-member team with four inspectors and technical experts,“ an investigating officer said.
 
 Police scoured CCTV camera footage from various locations in and around the complainants' house. A white Maruti Swift Dzire moving around suspiciously in the area drew the investigators' attention.
 
 Meanwhile, police found that the mobile phone number used to call Shivkumar belonged to a person called Krishna Chennaiah, and the postpaid SIM card was purchased in Hoskote. By then, the abductor had called Shivkumar again and placed a demand for Rs 1.5 crore in ransom to free Vimala, and said the delivery time and place would be intimated later.
 
 DCP Labhuram divided his team into four groups and rushed one team to Hoskote, while the three other teams fanned out in and around Whitefield, Hebbal and Yelahanka. The tower location of the kidnappers' mobile phone had shown these places.
 
 “By night, we discovered that the caller was Krishna, the victim's neighbour. Shivkumar identified his photo, which we sourced from the database of the mobile phone service provider,“ Labhuram said.
 
 Technical experts in one of the police teams moving around Hebbal were able to trace the location of the mobile phone to a one-bedroom house in a building in V Nagenahalli, about 200metres from Hebbal police station. A police team rushed to the building and found the Swift Dzire parked in front.
 
 A policeman in plainclothes knocked on the door of the house, calling out Krishna's name. “The other team members were hiding behind the compound wall. When the door opened, police stormed in. We detained the three men and rescued Vimala, who was tied to a chair in the bedroom,“ police said.
 
 The kidnappers had snatched the woman's gold chain and bangles. Investigations revealed that the trio, after calling Shivkumar and misleading him about the lottery, had arrived at Vimala's doorstep by 12.30pm, saying they were police officials.
 
 “A woman claiming to be your daughter-in-law attempted suicide and is battling for life. Please come with us to give a statement,“ they told Vimala.
 
 A panicky Vimala quickly got into their car. After driving some distance on Outer Ring Road, the trio threatened Vimala with a knife and blindfolded her, before taking her to Vijaykumar's house in Hebbal, from where she was rescued.
 
