BENGALURU: Commonwealth gold medallist in wrestling,  , on Friday said that winning the Olympic Gold for India was her top priority at the moment. She pointed out there was an entire lifetime ahead for her to get married. 

  Babita is in the city to inaugurate a two-day yoga and self-defence workshop for women, being organized by Akshar Yoga and Chikkaballapur MLA Dr Sudhakar K. Babita and her sister   will unveil the workshop on Saturday. "Our society is changing slowly. Back home, girls used to sit wearing a ghunghat. But now, there's a space for them too," Babita said. 
 
  Babita said her father,   and Olympic silver medallist   were her two greatest sources of inspiration. "While we were growing up, our father ensured we were never treated any differently from boys. The struggles Sushil endured, and his journey to winning a medal at the 2008 Olympics are a source of inspiration to everyone," she added. 
 
  "But for our father, we wouldn't have been able to reach anywhere in life. The fame, and love that we have received from people around the world, we owe it all to our father," she said. 
 
  On the difficulties she faced, breaking into a male-dominated sport, Babita said, "Our parents faced more hardship than we did. They had to listen to the taunts from people in our village. But that did not stop us from entering the field. Not many had a father like ours." 
 
 T he workshop, being conducted at Palace Grounds, will witness the participation of more than 4,000 women. "From time immemorial, yoga and marital arts have gone hand-in-hand. But the idea behind this event is to inspire women to stand up to male domination, and make a difference by setting strong examples," said founder of Akshar Yoga, Akshar. 
 
  "Self-defence is the right of every woman. Fear is something that will always be within us. But if we are confident, nothing is impossible. Women need to remember that," Babita said. 
 
 "Babita and Geeta are symbols of womanhood in our society. We want to give women a holistic view of empowerment," Sudhakar said.
 
