COIMBATORE: A 25-year-old man, his mother and two of his friends were on Monday arrested for murdering his father and also trying to destroy the evidence by burning the body near Madheswaran Temple at Karamadai here a few days ago. The police have collected samples of bone from the charred body for the DNA test.

 The arrested were identified as D Anuradha, 42, her son D Sathya alias Sathyanarayanan, 25, of Ramnagar at Thimmampalayam on the outskirts of the city, K Siddharth, 25, of Thottipalayam and R Ajith, 23, of Kuttaiyur near Karamadai.
 
 Anuradha, the police said, was a medical transcriptionist by profession. Her husband,  , 45, a native of Dindigul district, was in Dubai for five years where he was employed with a tyre retreading company. He left the job and settled in Thimmampalayam near Karamadai, where he constructed a new house, with his family.
 
 Their son Sathyanarayanan, meanwhile, started a tyre retreading business in Karamadai with an initial investment of Rs 10.5 lakh, which was loaned from a private bank. Dhamodaran used to assist his son in the business.
 
 Dhamodaran was a drunkard and used to harass his wife and son often. As the business was lossmaking, Anuradha requested her husband to sell the newly-constructed house to repay the loan amount. Dhamodaran, however, refused saying he had invested all his earnings to build the house.
 
 Anuradha and her son, along with his friends Siddharth, a graphic designer, and Ajith, a collection agent of a private truck company, then hatched a conspiracy to   Dhamodaran. When Dhamodaran went to bed on April 3, Sathyanarayanan and Siddharth assaulted him with a crow bar and an iron rod, killing him on the spot. They wrapped the body using a bed sheet and tied it with wire with a plan to dump it in an isolated place.
 
 On April 4 around 1.30am, they took the body in a goods autorickshaw to an isolated place near Madheswaran temple at Karamadai, doused it with petrol and set it on fire.
 
 At around 11am on that day, some local residents found the charred remains of the body and alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and sent the mortal remains for postmortem. Autopsy revealed that it was man.
 
 “The family members hadn’t lodged any man missing complaint. We collected CCTV footage from a commercial establishment and it showed a goods autorickshaw carrying a bundle under suspicious circumstances. We noticed an advertisement sticker on the auto and launched a search for the vehicle in and around Karamadai. We traced the auto to the deceased’s house and it belonged to Sathyanarayanan,” said Karamadai police inspector D Kannan.
 
 During the interrogation, Sathyanarayanan confessed to the crime. The police registered a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offense or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC and arrested the four on Monday. 
 
