The vice-chancellor of   , Sanjay Deshmukh, is on his way out for the fiasco over the declaration of results of the 477 examinations. If Deshmukh does not quit on his own, provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act will be invoked for his dismissal, said a high-ranking bureaucrat.

 Deshmukh called on governor   Rao on Sunday and said he should be allowed to resume duties as early as possible. However, Raj Bhavan rejected his plea.
 
 The bureaucrat said Rao heard Deshmukh's contention, but asked him to quit as early as possible. Deshmukh's brief interaction was followed by Rao's meeting with chief minister   and higher and technical education minister Vinod Tawde to review the state of affairs at Mumbai University. “We expect Deshmukh to resign in a day or two. If he fails to submit his resignation, due process of law will be followed for his dismissal,“ he said.
 
 Alarmed by complaints from several students on the prolonged delay in result declaration, Rao had stepped in. “Results were delayed indefinitely .More shocking was the fact that the V-C never briefed the governor on the mess in the university. Under the Act, it is binding on the V-C to ensure that results are declared within 45 days of the exams,“ the bureaucract said.
 
 While Deshmukh was asked to proceed on leave, Shivaji University vice-chancellor   was entrusted the additional charge of Mumbai University . Ever since the charge was given to Shinde, Rao has been personally monitoring the situation in Mumbai University . “Our top priority was to declare the results of all exams in a time-bound period so that students' future is not affected. Owing to the casual approach of the administration, the university's prestige has been lost,'' the bureaucrat said. On Sunday , Rao had reviewed the situation in MU in the presence of Fadnavis, Tawde and additional chief secretary  . “The governor has asked MU to declare results kept in reserve as early as possible and also complete the revaluation of 46,806 papers in a time-bound period,'' he said.
 
