LUCKNOW: Amid the ongoing and increasingly intensifying buzz around the shutdown of   and  , TOI finds out that the municipal corporation has not licensed even one street vendor out of the estimated 25,000 in the city.

 All fast food barrows, vegetable and fruit sellers, pan shops, tea stalls and fish suppliers run brisk businesses without the mandatory vending certificate.
 
 According to the Street Vending Act of 2014, vendors should be accommodated in a designated vending zone. Besides, a town vending committee should be constituted which will be responsible for conducting a survey of all vendors every five years. It is also necessary for all   above 14 years of age to have a certificate of vending.
 
 The Bill received the assent of Parliament and the President of India in March 2014 and the Act came into force on May 1, 2014.
 
 However, according to Gokul Prasad, the vice president of National Association of Street Food Vendors of India (NASVI), vendors in Lucknow have been making efforts to obtain a licence for several years but in vain. In 2015, a group of vendors from Lucknow along with Prasad, had filed a PIL seeking help from the high court.
 
 “There are more than 1 lakh street vendors associated with NASVI in Lucknow but not even one has a licence,” claimed Gokul, adding, “The vending committee formed by LMC has several anomalies. The rules say 40% members of the committee should be street vendors, but that is not the case. All vendors should be registered after conducting a survey but only 1% of us have been registered till yet.”
 
 Vikas Shukla, another fast-food vendor who has been making efforts to get a certificate for two years, said, “License has not been issued so that vendors are forced to function illegally, making them prone to bribery and extortion under local police and municipal authorities, besides harassment, heavy fines and sudden evictions. The worst part is that people from our community are hardly educated to talk about their rights.”
 
 Scared of the ongoing crackdown, Mukesh, a fish seller, said, “There is a constant fear among us that our trade will also suffer. Just like meat shop owners’, our livelihood will also get affected and that too, because of LMC’s fault.” 
 
  said the rules have not been implemented in the state because the state government has to amend the guidelines of the Act and the previous government was too lethargic to do it. 
 
 “We can only provide vending certificates when the law is enforced, since it has not been done yet, no licence has been granted,” said PK Srivastava, additional municipal commissioner.
 
 Fastfood vendors | Around 10,000 | Because none of them is licensed, there is no check on arrangements made to keep food clean and fresh or whether utensils used are hygienic. Poorly stored food could lead to several gastroenterological diseases including diarrhea and food poisoning. 
 
 Vegetable and fruit vendors | 7,000 | They are the cause of most of the encroachment in the city. This leads to frequent traffic jams and congestions. Most vendors do not even have dustbins to dispose rotten vegetables and fruits or their waste, resulting in littering all around.
 
 Pan shops/tea stalls | 5,000 | Most pan shops flout the guidelines of the Supreme Court which has ruled that no tobacco item should be sold within 100 meters from the boundary of any school or educational institute. Tea stalls, meanwhile, are a major reason behind polluting the environment as they disposable glasses and wrappers of edible items are scattered around them.
 
 Fish sellers | 3,000 | There are five major fish markets in the city but there is no arrangement for disposal of remains in any of them. This results in hazardous pollution to the surroundings. Besides, as fish is cut into pieces in the open, it is an eyesore for many passers-by. 
 
