Herbal Tradition Of Dawasaz Kept Alive By Technology
Ilyas Khan, 70, walks into a bus tling Gulzar Houz shop in Old City with a long list of herbs.
 The storekeeper feeds the list into a computer and within min utes Khan, a hakim, walks out with packs of rare jadi butis.
 
 Welcome to Dawasaz -Hyderabad's 70-odd traditional herbal stores that have fast caught up with modern technology, in-house research and innovation. Long before Baba Ramdev set up his Patanjali chain of stores, Hyderabad's Dawasaz herbal pharmacies had left their own footprint in the world of natural medicine.
 
 As the city's herbal tradition continues with vigour, and a blend of traditional values and modern technology , almost every Dawasaz (Urdu for druggist) store has computerised data on herbs with barcodes for easy identification and dispensing.
 
 They have also come out with modern packing and newer formulations with exotic fruits to attract customers in developed countries.
 
 Apart from raw herbs, about 200 formulations are manufactured in Dawasaz stores dotting Old City. They have a combined turnover of about Rs 250 crore, and many products are exported to Europe, Africa, US, and West Asian countries.
 
 Hyderabad has about 300 hakeems catering to about 8,000 patients who visit various Unani clinics and hospitals in the city .
 
 Modern technology has, in a way, come as a major boon to the present generation manning Dawasaz stores.Many of them are not familiar with traditional herbs, that number in the thousands. Digitisation of the herbal database has made things easier for youngsters managing family businesses. Many practitioners of Unani, Ayurveda, Siddha, homoeopathy and naturopathy from different parts of south India depend on these stores.
 
 “It's not a badam-pista business,“ says   of Munnalal Dawasaz, which was set up in 1844, explaining how difficult it is to identify plant species, know their medicinal properties, and prepare herbal combinations to treat various ailments.
 
 “We import certain herbs from countries such as Nepal and Iran.Every soil has its own specialty, which adds to the medicinal properties of various herbs. We do not compromise on the ingredients. We even stop production if we do not get the right herb,“ says Akash.
 
 Dawasaz stores offer everything healthy, traditional, herbal and natural. The unique herbs and formulations vie with modern medicine in efficacy, affordability and cure. They, of course, come with the advantage of having “no side effects“.
 
 They cater to a range of health problems. From fighting hairfall and improving skin tone to controlling blood sugar, enhancing bowel movements and curing liver ailments, Dawasaz has it all. They also sell formulations that promise to fight infertility and ageing.
 
 But a fast dwindling forest cover, coupled with the migration of labour from villages, has hit the industry .
 
 “Collecting herbs is a major challenge. There is severe shortage of manpower. Many herbs are becoming rare.The Union ministry of Ayush should provide proper guidance for product research and enhancement,“ says Rohit Gupta of  , which was set up in 1903.
 
 An increase in the cost of raw herbs has also affected the industry and dented profits. “There has been a manifold increase in the cost of ingredients. But we do not compromise on quality. No doubt, profit margins have come down. We use herbs that are sourced from nature,“ says  , managing partner,  , established in 1920. The odds notwithstanding, Hyderabad's precursors to `Patanjali' stores continue to cater to the needs of lakhs of patients through safe and efficacious natural drugs.
 
