INDORE: The two-day South Asian Speakers’ Summit concluded on Sunday with the adoption of Indore Declaration, resolving to strengthen regional cooperation and resources to eliminate poverty, gender inequality and tackle the twin challenges of climate change and natural disasters.

 The Speakers hoped that the region would have met the sustainable development goals when they meet next in Sri Lanka next year. During the summit, it was emphasized that with high economic growth in the region, there is a new burst of energy among partners but it is important to make the process more inclusive and broad-based. National strategies and regional approach are crucial as expectations are very high, the Speakers agreed.
 
 Parliamentarians of the South Asian region mentioned that the spirit of sustainable development goals (SDG) is in “perfect harmony with the cultural and social philosophy of the region” but, it came out clearly in the summit that if South Asia does not deliver on SDGs, it will affect global success on these issues.
 
 Poverty continues to be a scourge for the region, Lok Sabha Speaker   rued. “The South Asia region, with 1.7 billion people, is the most densely populated in the world. With less than 4% surface area, it is home to about 25% per cent of world’s population. People are still living in extreme poverty which poses a major challenge for policymakers. South Asian countries share the collective responsibility to find solutions to this,” she said at the concluding session. Achieving SDGs will address poverty, and most of the problems that are holding back peace and prosperity in these countries, she felt. 
 
 At the summit, delegates agreed that increased use of technology will reduce cost of implementation of SDGs. The lowering of solar energy prices in India is a case in point. The Aadhar-linked electronic payment system by nearly 1 billion people wowed the delegates from other countries. They believe that scaling up and sharing these experiences over the next 10 years can bring about significant change in the region.
 
 It was mentioned that the reverse flow from developing countries to developed countries came up in form of illicit financial flows. Nearly $90 billion is lost in dodging tax authorities, the speakers noted.
 
 In the context of South Asia, it was pointed out that the loan component in Official Development Assistance (ODA) composition has multiplied manifold and ODA plays a very limited role, anyway. The delivery of $100 billion by developed countries, which was committed at the Paris Agreement, seems to be far from being fulfilled. Developed countries are not contributing to the global target of 0.7% Gross National Income for ODA, they said. It was suggested in the summit that South Asian partner countries should collectively articulate focused messages at global forums. The region could explore ‘blended financing’ in the range of $2.5 to $3.5 trillion and the strengths of triangular development cooperation.
 
 The summit also emphasized the importance of regional connectivity and trade facilitation. Although South Asia has 25% of the global population, its share of global GDP is a meagre 3%. It has only 1.9% of the global exports pie and 1.7% in FDI, observed the speakers.
 
 In the presentation, cost of non-cooperation was also highlighted.
 
 An Inter-Parliamentary Union ‘toolkit’ was launched at the summit. It is intended to assist parliaments to assess ‘how fit for purpose’ they are in helping implementation of SDGs in their country. It will also show the means and processes required to move forward on SDGs.
 
 Gender equality was one of the priority issues. Delegates agreed that changing mindset is more important than ‘power-sharing’ when it comes to gender mainstreaming. Symbolic measures may have significance but gender equality cannot be accomplished without change of societal approach and attitude, they noted, pointing out that empowering a woman has a massive impact as it influences the next generations.
 
 On climate change, there was a call for each country to reassess its policies and plug the gaps. The South Asian region is particularly prone to natural disasters, making cooperation among countries all the more important. Disaster risk reduction is directly linked to development, the delegates said, adding that regional risk mapping and resilient institutional framework to tackle disasters are crucial.
 
 Lok Sabha deputy speaker   explained the vulnerability of the South Asia region and need for better strategies for disaster management. In this context, the New Delhi declaration was adopted at the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction. The Bangladesh government discussed measures taken for minimising the impact of disasters and suggested that engaging communities is a key strategy. Nearly 18 million people are getting solar energy which means around 11 per cent population is getting access to solar energy, the summit was informed.
 
 
