KOCHI: At a time when   (CCRC) authorities are all set to begin surgical sessions at the centre, the health department is planning to depute two of the surgeons to Ernakulam  . Given the fact that there are only a few surgeons in CCRC where the operation is limited to just the outpatient wing (OP), the plan to depute surgeons will delay the starting of surgery sessions at the centre. 

 As of now, there are only four to five doctors at the CCRC. The CCRC authorities already held talks with officials of Government Medical College, Ernakulam for providing adequate help for starting the surgery. The CCRC doesn't have an operation theatre and post-operative care unit to conduct surgeries. One of the operation theatres of the medical college would be allotted to the CCRC for conducting surgeries. One of the rooms attached to the CCRC also would be given for arranging postoperative care unit.
 
 As per the information secured from health department, Dr Neetha, gynaec oncologist and Dr  , surgical oncologist, have given applications for going to Ernakulam general hospital on deputation basis. "The officials with health department are processing their request. An order in their favour is expected in a day or two," a source said.
 
 At the same time, authorities with the CCRC said that the deputation wouldn't affect the plan to start surgery. "They would be going to the general hospital for one or two days a week. They can be called back when we starts the surgery. Now, we have to complete the arrangements for starting the surgery. Till then, the doctors can offer their services to the patients at the General Hospital," said Dr  , superintendent, CCRC.
 
 Meanwhile, the government has agreed to consider the request of the CCRC authorities to include the patients at the Centre also under the cover of health insurance schemes like Karunya. "It is very sad that the patients in our centre are not eligible for the schemes like Karunya. Patients here are ineligible for the benefits under the scheme due to the absence of inpatient (IP) department in CCRC. But, the health department officials have agreed to consider our request favorably," Balagopal said.
 
 The number of patients come seeking treatment at the centre is growing steadily. As of now, an average of 15 patients seeks treatment at the cancer centre a day.
 
 Though, it was expected that the state government would be offer funds for running the CCRC during its transition to a full-fledged Centre, the government didn't allot any funds in the budget for the interim period. In the budget, it has been announced that the funds for CCRC would be allocated from   (KIIFB). But the funds would be for constructing new buildings and purchasing equipment. It can't be used for arranging facilities and meeting running cost during the transition period.
 
