The Bhat household in Coimbatore is on cloud nine for the last one week. On January 4, when the   announced the list of scientific and technical award winners for the year, two Indians were part of the list. While Parag Havaldar was chosen for the facial-performance-capture-technology at Sony Pictures Imageworks;   Bhat made it to the list for ILM's facial-performance-capture-solving system. Kiran will share the   for Scientific and Technical Achievements in the field of   with Michael Koperwas, Brian Cantwell and Paige Warner. 

 K Srinivas Bhat, father of Kiran shared his excitement with CT, saying 'It is a proud moment for us. Kiran is the eighth Indian to have made it to the list of Oscar winners. When we received the news in the wee hours of January 5, we just couldn't believe it. Though the Academy had announced the list on January 4, I guess Kiran knew about it much earlier. Kiran has been quite humble about it.'
 
 Forty-one-year-old Kiran, who addressed through video-conferencing, added, 'I'm really happy and excited about the award. I worked on a technology called the facial-performance-capture-solving system, which involves capturing the expression of someone's face and using it as a character. We used the technology in The Avengers for Hulk's character to capture the expressions of Mark Ruffalo. In Star Wars: Rogue One, the late Peter Cushing's portions were recreated by Guy Henry. We captured his expressions and converted them into digital form. The technology involves huge investment and is owned by some of the biggest studios in  . But, with time, the technology will become more accessible to all.' This technology has been used in films like The Avengers, Star Wars: Episode VII: A Force Awakens, Warcraft, Pirates Of The Caribbean and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
 
 The Bhats moved to Coimbatore in 1986 from Trivandrum and have been residing in there since then. Kiran completed his schooling in Coimbatore and pursued a dual degree in electrical and mechanical engineering at BITS, Pilani. He later did his doctorate in robotics at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh and specialised in artificial intelligence. He joined the American motion picture visual effects company, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) and was the principal investigator of the research and development team there, until he co-founded a company called loom.ai that involves a new technology platform that brings virtual communication to life.
 
 'Right from his childhood, Kiran was focused on the technical aspect of things. It was only natural that he pursued robotics for his higher studies,' says Srinivas. 
 
 The Bhats are all set to leave to the United States soon, where Kiran is settled with his wife and two daughters. 'It was a happy coincidence. We had planned to visit Kiran later this month. Now, we are planning to stay back in the United States till the Oscars,' adds Srinivas. Kiran will receive the award on February 11 at Beverly Hills, California. Interestingly, it was only last year that yet another Coimbatorean, Cottalango Leon, had won an Oscar for technical achievements.
 
