Sunil Pandey leads many lives. By day , he's the vice principal of a city boys' school. Come evening, the 46-yearold dons a traffic warden's uniform and manages traffic on the Exide crossing. And he's been doing this at least twice a week since 1998.In fact, that's the norm for the 98 traffic wardens registered with the Kolkata Traffic Police. Whatever their profession may be, they need to volunteer for traffic management at least two hours, twice a week.
So, the next time you are stuck in a jam and come across a khaki-clad cop managing traffic, look closely . If he has stripes instead of stars on the uniform's epaulettes, be sure he's a traffic warden. And he may well be a lawyer, doctor, entrepreneur, industrialist, chartered accountant, engineer or a teacher in a school or college. That's because every warden is a successful professional, who offers voluntary services to help Kolkata Traffic Police in crisis. And the wardens have been doing this for decades.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The traffic wardens' unit was established by the state government as an auxiliary wing of the Kolkata Traffic Police in 1975 under sub-section 4 of Section 20A of the Calcutta Police Act 1866 and sub-section 4 of Section 14A of the Calcutta Suburban Police Act 1866, 1975.
 
 According to DC traffic V  , any professional can apply for the service. “For that one needs to fill up the application form and submit it with all credentials. We select from professionals like lawyers, doctors, engineers, corporate executives and businessmen. Women wardens were inducted in 1995. Together, they are an integral part of the Kolkata Traffic Police force,“ he said.
 
 At present there are 98 traffic wardens in the city , including four women. They report to the DC traffic and work in close coordination with chief traffic warden and deputy chief traffic warden. The chief and the deputy head a team of senior wardens and wardens.
 
 
 
 To become a traffic warden, one needs to be a graduate aged between 25 and 50. Apart from the minimum two hours of services as a volunteer twice a week, they may even need to work round the clock during special occasions like Durga Puja to ensure smooth flow of traffic.
 
 “However, unlike police officers, we cannot fine traffic offenders. We either advise them to follow the rules or hand them over to police. But all of us enjoy the job and put our hearts into it,“ said Pandey , who teaches commerce and looks after the sports department at the National High School for Boys and is a resident of Motilal Nehru Road.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Traffic wardens have another important task. They visit different schools and institutions and teach children about traffic signals and traffic etiquette. “In fact, I personally love to undergo trainings at the Kolkata Traffic Police Training School at regular intervals. These training sessions are quite interesting,“ said AK Choudhury , one of the senior-most traffic wardens in the city . The 53-yearold cardiologist became a traffic warden in 1995.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Besides helping traffic sergeants and constables on the roads, most wardens also volunteer during natural calamities. In 2001, a team of traffic wardens went to   to help the Bhuj earthquake victims. For 13 days, they went door-to-door, distributing relief among victims.
 Moreover, the traffic warden unit has been participating in the city's Republic Day parade since 1997 and has won several trophies.
 “We pay for our uniform, transportation, everything, all for the love of khaki, Kolkata and above all, humanity . Actually , it was my childhood dream was to become an IPS officer and now I am partly living that dream as a traffic warden,“ said   resident Amrita Chaturvedi. The chief financial officer of Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad, Amrita is one the four women traffic wardens in the city. She joined the force in 2000 and is currently posted at the Shyambazar fivepoint crossing.
 
 
 
 
 According to Pandey , the Kolkata Traffic Police will start a recruitment drive for new wardens soon to have a stronger force ahead of Durga Puja. “We need around 20-25 more wardens.Altogether, there have been 23 batches since 1975; this will be the 24th,“ he added.
 
 — Arpit Basu
 
 
