KANPUR:   (SP) MP   on Sunday slammed his cousin and former minister   for his back-to-back statements demanding his nephew and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav to take 'moral responsibility' for the the party’s defeat in assembly elections and step down and make netaji ( ) the party president.

 "The party's general body at a meeting had unanimously elected Akhilesh as its national president. Now, even if he wants, he cannot hand over the post to anyone," said Ram Gopal while addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters in Etawah on Sunday. 
 
 None listened to Akhilesh when he became the national president, and was given the party's responsibility prior to the assembly elections, he further said. 
 
 Now why Shivpal was creating a fuss and raising issue of making Netaji as the party's national president, he said adding that it seems that Shivpal has not read the party's constitution and doesn’t even know about functioning of the party. 
 
 "Elections for the post of party's national and state presidentship will take place after membership campaign is over. If Shivpal wants to become the party's president or wants to hold any other post, then he should first renew his membership and work hard in the ongoing membership drive of the party. Even, I am here in Etawah to take the party's primary membership, but it seems, he is least interested in all this and has only been misguiding netaji and hellbent on damaging the partys prospects," Ram Gopal alleged.
 
 Speaking on recent killing of 26 CRPF jawans in   in Chhattisgarh, Ram Gopal said Naxalism, which is even more grave than terrorism, remains the biggest internal security challenge, and it is imperative to control it.
 
 "I have been raising the issue in parliament for the last few years that Naxalism remains the biggest internal security challenge our country is facing", he said. Army is not the solution to tackle Naxalism, the government should come up with proper strategy to combat the menace by gaining confidence of the local people and taking up more welfare related activities like building infrastructure in Naxal affected areas and generating employment, he added.
 
 Attacking   over triple talaq, Ram Gopal said, "BJP is expert in raking up non-meaningful issues and in levelling allegations on others". Sources, meanwhile, said that Ram Gopal and Akhilesh Yadav had a closed door meeting in Safai which lasted for near about 40 minutes.
 
 
