NAGPUR: The bhoomipuja of Symbiosis International University’s off-campus centre here has turned out to be an election gimmick only. Three months since the ground breaking ceremony, the project is yet to get a nod from the state government.

 A senior Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) official told TOI, the approval from the state’s urban development department was awaited. “NMC sent the proposal in December 2016 and is pending as on date. No query has been raised by the government in relation to the proposal,” he said.
 
 Bhoomipuja of the project was performed on January 5. Union minister for road transport and highways  , who brought the project to the city, was present along with chief minister  .
 
 The NMC issued letter of intent and gave in-principle possession of 75 acres land worth around Rs 180 crore to Symbiosis for bhoomipuja.
 
 TOI had, on January 7, highlighted in-principle possession of land and bhoomipuja was violation of the norms. NMC had leased out the land to Symbiosis at a nominal rate. As per rules, NMC is supposed to recover value of the land as per ready reckoner for lease purpose. If NMC wishes to allot the land at a nominal rate, the civic body has to seek approval from the government. Without the government’s nod, NMC cannot give possession of the land or permission for bhoomipuja, which is a ceremony performed to begin construction activities.
 
 The code of conduct for municipal elections came into effect on January 11. Eyeing the elections, the process and bhoomipuja was done in a hurry. Accordingly, all leaders from  , including  , highlighted the project during election campaign. Symbiosis was talk of the election in East Nagpur as it is proposed at Wathoda.
 
 Symbiosis says it has continued its process to execute the project. Principal director of Symbiosis Society Vidya Yerawdekar said process to appoint architect was underway. “We got letter of intent from NMC. We will be signing an agreement with NMC soon. We have planned a beautiful campus in Nagpur on the lines of Pune campus, so we require a good architect for which all India competition has been undertaken. Construction work is likely to begin post-monsoon. We hope to begin management institute in 2018 if everything goes as per our plans,” she said.
 
