A letter by  , to be auctioned in a week, reveals the pleasure Austen experienced after reading a gothic novel. It is as near to a parody as it can be. 

  Dated 29-30 October 1812, the letter is addressed to her niece, Anna Lefroy about “Lady Maclairn, the Victim of Villany”, a novel by  , both had read. The letter is written as a note to the author, which says “Miss Jane Austen begs her best thanks may be conveyed to Mrs Hunter of Norwich.”
 
  The expected sale of three such articles of correspondence between Austen and her niece is £162,000 set to go on auction by Austen’s family on 11 July 2017. It has started a round of speculation from readers. “Although the content was known,” Gabriel Heaton, Sotheby’s specialist in books and manuscripts, said, “the letter itself has not been seen by scholars and it is very exciting to have it become available”. 
 
  In the parody, Austen is ridiculing Hunter’s melodramatic style and clichés by heavily praising them. The heroine’s relentless tears, the dismal setting and repetitions of plot and character were ruthlessly mocked. She vocalizes her emotion by saying “tears have flowed over each sweet sketch” and the reader is aware it is tears of laughter.
 
  The letter gives insight into Austen’s engagement with contemporary writers after 
 had been published for a year and 
  adorned her publisher’s desk. Contrary to 
  image, the letter sheds light that Austin wasn’t as averse of the genre because she read it even after completing her parody. “She is talking to a friend and showing how she is enjoying trash, which is how a lot of people saw the novel at the time, not just gothic novels,” Heaton said. “Jane was a great defender of the artistic integrity of the novel, but not necessarily all novels.”
 
  Janet Todd, editor of Austen’s complete works for  , said, “Austen hugely enjoyed ridiculing other women writers and their improbable, sentimental and gothic plots.” Todd added, “She knew well her own literary powers – and probably learned a good deal of what not to do by reading the interminable romances and effusions of contemporary authors.” 
 
 
