Nagpur: With Navratri commencing on September 21, the countdown to nine nights of dancing and   has begun. Gearing for the occasion are many dance enthusiasts who are flocking to various academies in the city to brush up their dancing skills.

 Catching the moment ahead of others is Chetan Dashmukhe of G Next Dance and Fitness, whose classes commenced from Sept 1. “Many of those learning with me say that a fortnight is too less a time so this year I decided to start early and give them an advantage of five more days,” Dashmukhe says.
 
 What is being taught this season goes way beyond the regular folk form that garba is. It is being mashed up with lots of western and contemporary styles. “People join these classes also for fitness and to lose weight. So they do not like to repeat the same five steps five hundred times. They want more vigorous movements,” explains Dashmukhe who has also introduced a component of cardio and physical   style exercises in the dance steps.
 
 Terming the likes of Falguni Pathak, who once ruled dandiya and garba gatherings as passé, Pooja Rathi who coaches only women says that western beats are being mixed with traditional ones even at places where there is live orchestra. “It’s not just the younger set, middle-aged women too want to dance at a faster pace. The dandiya mix and other such beat based music is a rage now during this season,” adds Rathi.
 
 Saying that many of his regular students are also now compelling him to teach salsa steps, Kunal Vaidya who was among the first to start garba classes says, “Youngsters are watching all this on YouTube where salsa garba is trending. This year I too am teaching it. But the first 10 days I will stick to traditional garba though I have devised two new fast-paced steps Poptiyu and Kachchi for youngsters.”
 
 Dividing his batches into two groups, one advance comprising of expert dancers and other for beginners, is Anirudha Manapure of Maggot Dance Academy. “90% of the people prefer the basic steps like chichora, teen taali and raas. It’s those taking part in competitions who want something innovative,” he says and adds, “We have these groups of college students and friends who especially train for events at Ramdaspeth or Chitnavis Park where competitions are held.”
 
 Believing in keeping it short but intensive is choreographer Vrushank Raghatate who will be holding a seven day class at Khamla. He is mixing the folk form with steps from Russian and Irish  . “There are many variations of power moves and tricks that I pack into my modules and I also plan to have rigorous sessions on last two days.” 
 
 All set to hone her skills at one such class is software engineer Rinku Jethwani. “I join a class every year as that’s the only way to keep up with the trends. Arriving at a garba pandal without any training can be disastrous,” she says. 
 
 
