PATNA:   and officers will get 14%   following the implementation of the state pay fitment committee’s report which was submitted to CM   on Monday. 

 Sources said the report is likely to be put up before the state cabinet at its next meeting for its approval. Nitish has already said in the state assembly on February 28 that the state employees would get benefits of the Seventh Pay Commission’s recommendations with effect from January 1 this year.
 
 Former state chief secretary G S Kang, who headed the three- member  , submitted its final report to Nitish at his 1, Aney Marg residence at 4pm. “The state government employees will get an increment of 14% in their salaries, similar to the benefit given to central government employees as recommended by the Seventh Pay Commission,” Kang later told TOI.
 
 As for benefits to state government’s pensioners, Kang said though the fitment committee did not make any separate recommendation for pensioners, the benefits given to central government pensioners as per the recommendation of the Seventh Pay Commission would accrue to the state government’s pensioners as well.
 
 The state pay fitment commission has also not made any specific recommendation on the revision of House Rent Allowance (HRA) for state employees apparently because a decision regarding the HRA for central government employees is yet to be taken.
 
 Though the Seventh Pay Commission was implemented for central government employees from January 1, decisions on benefits to pensioners and revision in HRA are pending. 
 
 Kang said most of the Seventh Pay Commission’s recommendations have been adhered to in the fitment committee’s report. The fitment committee has also attempted rationalisation of payscales in certain categories. 
 
 The state government’s 4.5 lakh serving employees and 3.5 lakh pensioners are likely to be benefited from the pay revision. 
 
 The state government in its budget for 2017-18 has provided for Rs 78,818.46 crore (Rs 6,541.51 crore more than the last fiscal) for establishment and committed expenditure, which include payment of salaries, pension and office establishment expenses, among others. The committed expenditure on the salaries and allowances of the state government employees for 2016-17 was Rs 18,328.59 crore.
 
 
