Safe and responsible sex isn’t a taboo in the city anymore. With Valentine’s Day round the corner, medical shops of Indore are witnessing an all-time high in the sales of condoms. And   aren’t shying away from practising  , albeit, responsibly. “Be it heading to the chemist shop confidently to buy   or consulting a sexologist on safe sex, Indore’s youngsters are not only waking up to their sexual needs but also their responsibilities,” feels Dr Rekha Arya, a clinical psychologist and sex behaviour expert. 
 
 
 
 
 Youngsters are breaking the social stigma attached to buying condoms. Shedding inhibitions, they are now more upfront in practising safe sex. And why not? It is always better to be cautious than to sway in a weak moment. Rajat Raka, a city-based chemist, informs, “Almost 8-10 young people come to our shop daily to buy condoms. In fact, the sale of condoms in the week ahead of the Valentine’s Day has also gone up. Even girls are comfortable in going to a store for fetching condoms and  .” Though there is no doubt about the comfort level of youngsters in buying contraceptives, how much do the shopkeepers do, to not make a big deal out of it, is what we asked. “We have instructed our staff to make the youngsters feel comfortable, especially girls, when they come to buy contraceptives. It is very natural.” Shubham Bansal, another city-based chemist agrees, “The young customers are all up for experimenting with flavours and types of condoms.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr Shrikant Reddy informs, “Youngsters feel that safe sex is only using condoms and other precautions but that is not a fit definition of safe sex. Having proper knowledge of the health hazards that might follow as a repercussion of unsafe sex is what the youth needs to be aware of. Teenagers and youngsters these days are mostly inspired by the pornographic content which is actually an exaggerated sexual material. In order to imitate what they learn from pornography, they might end up hurting themselves.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Dr Rekha Arya, sex behaviour expert who has been handling sex   cases, shares, “Though certain schools in the city have been calling me to conduct workshops on sex education, the awareness is yet to pick up. I feel sex education should become compulsory as part of the syllabus and there should be a clear communication between the teacher and students on sex education. Children should be aware about the natural and hormonal changes that their body and mind goes through. That only can be achieved through clear communication. If children aren’t given proper sex education at the right time which is ideally when the child is 14-16 years the consequences cannot be very good. If teenagers indulge in such activities at the wrong time without proper knowledge then the unfavourable circumstances can lead to shame, guilt turning into anxiety and depression.”
 
 
 
 
 
 A clear communication between parents and their kids is of paramount importance. Dr Shrikant Reddy shares, “The parents think unka baccha 18 saal mein bhi baccha hi hai. Whereas, 14-15 is the right age when the children should be counselled on sex. If the parents are hesitant and unable to speak freely to their kids then they voluntarily should send the kids to the counsellors. Parents should also keep a check on the friend circle and monitor online content. Love and affection of a parent can make the kids open up. 
 Generally the youngsters (mostly boys even on behalf of girls) come for counselling once something has gone wrong or if they have questions related to HIV and other health hazards. However, sex education is something which should be imparted before youngsters indulge in such activities.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parth Bhadoria, 25, a media professional who is also preparing for administrative exams shares, “Today’s generation is completely comfortable and easy about using precautions. Going to a crowded medical store and asking for a condom is no longer a taboo for the youngsters, at least not for me! Protection is a must to prevent STDs and injuries while having sex. Condoms are also hygienic and helps one enjoy intimacy. I always keep a condom handy in my wallet and advice all my friends to do the same.”
 
 
 Pratha Tiwari, 24, an MBA advertising and public relation student, shares, “Carrying a condom or keeping a check on protection isn’t just a man’s responsibility. When the act is between two people, both should be equally responsible to ensure protection. A condom is always for our good, and it is as necessary as a sanitary napkin. Contraceptive pills should be avoided since they lead to mood swings, emotional and hormonal misbalance, if used frequently. Tablets even lead to irregular periods. Even for hygiene reasons I strongly support having safe sex.”
 
 
 Naman Gupta, 25 a young businessman, shares, “The cover of a story book never changes the climax of the story, it keeps it safe and only enhances the curiosity of reading it. Similarly, I always use condoms to keep my sex life safe. Also one should know the person well before having sex. Pleasure is good but if it comes with a sense of responsibility, the better. In a world where dating has become just a right swipe away on various dating apps, keeping a tab on having sex with strangers or random people should be a practice that is carried out responsibly.” 
 
