CHENNAI: A violinist employed as an assistant professor in   Foundation has approached the Madras high court for an interim stay over a disciplinary chargesheet issued to him. The court had ordered a status quo in September this year on the matter. 

 The case pertains to one MV Sreenivas alias V  , who works at the   (RDFCA) of the Kalakshetra Foundation, which administers the internationally-renowned fine arts institute situated in Chennai.
 
 Sreenivas objected to the foundation questioning his integrity and has said that the chargesheet was issued with a 'malafide' intent. Kalakshetra Foundation director   did not respond when asked for a comment.
 
 The development comes at a time when a section of artists on the board of Kalakshetra and inside the school of arts have expressed their displeasure over the administration of the institute.
 
 The chargesheet, dated June 23, 2016, a copy of which is with TOI, has charged Sreenivas with six main charges. Some of them include a complaint received from a student in January 2014 that Sreenivas was unpunctual and another one in in December 2014 about 'discourteous comments made by him against another artist.' His integrity has been questioned on these counts. 
 
 The confidential yearly appraisal reports of Sreenivas for 2013-14 and 2014-15, during which the above allegations were made, show that he was given excellent remarks for integrity and professional conduct. These documents were obtained by Sreenivas through RTI petitions.
 
 The main bone of contention for the chargesheet, according to Sreenivas, is an altercation with the Foundation authorities over a change-of-name procedure. He had changed his name from Srinivasan in 2015, which was published in the government gazette. The Foundation was also duly informed, he stated in his petition to the court. However, the authorities demanded that the declaration should be given on a stamp paper, despite government rules not mandating such a procedure. This has led to stalling of his children education allowance for the past few months.
 
 This altercation was the third charge levelled against him in the chargesheet, where the Foundation says that he 'failed to maintain devotion to duty and exhibited conduct unbecoming of an employee of Kalakshetra.' 
 
 
