NEW DELHI: Principals and some parent associations on Friday welcomed the high court’s move to allow unaided private schools to invite applications on basis of their own criteria plus the neighbourhood norm brought in by the government.

 Though schools will now have to include new criteria like alumni, parents' education, staff ward, etc, in admission forms, principals are not worried. “Yes, it’s a hassle for   because all changes are happening in the middle of the admission process, but it’s a welcome step for schools as it appears to make the process more flexible," said Minakshi Kushwaha,   of Birla Vidya Niketan, Pushp Vihar. She said her school would not have to alter the form because "we had kept it very open from the beginning”. 
 
 However, printing problems might surface for schools that still haven't taken the admission process online. Ashok Pandey, principal of Alchon International School and chairman of National Progressive Schools Committee, suggested that these schools attach an advisory with new forms. He added that parents need not panic because the forms would only be scrutinised after the next hearing on January 19. 
 
 S K Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Private Unaided Schools, one of the key petitioners, said DOE would have to announce the new directions before schools could start giving out new forms. However, director of education Saumya Gupta said: “Several times, the language of speaking and the written language differ. We won't release a new schedule, but will have to see the document before releasing a notification on Monday." 
 
 Some parent associations too lauded the interim verdict. "I think it is in favour of students who live far away. I also believe that schools should be fair and not introduce criteria that would hassle parents,” said Virendra Singh, president of Jagrook Parent Association. 
 
 A few parents, however, are fretting at the “additional burden”. Vipin Jain, whose daughter is seeking admission, said: “The parent should write one form and fill out the criteria of schools. The government should then allot schools based on their preferences." 
 
 
