Colva: The Aam Admi Party (AAP) which failed to open its account in the February 4 polls is set for an image makeover. 

 “With outside volunteers assisting us in   to build up the party, opposition parties got an opportunity to term us a Delhi party so we have decided to go in for an image makeover,” said Elvis Gomes, AAP’s chief ministerial candidate. 
 
 At a brainstorming meeting of party candidates, conveners, coordinators on Tuesday evening, some issues were identified that need to be corrected so that no wrong signals go out.
 
 He told TOI that it was resolved to add local flavour to campaigning henceforth. Many candidates felt that one aspect that worked against them was volunteers from outside the state campaigning for the party. It resulted in negative voting in some places as the ‘high’ for AAP turned ‘low’ in the last lap of the campaign. “Until a month ago, the AAP was on an upswing but suddenly things went against the party in the last leg which was difficult to fathom. The silent vote appeared to be in our favour but we were mistaken,” said a volunteer.
 
 AAP not only failed to open its account but worse still was the fact that of 39 seats the party had contested 38 seats forfeited their deposits with the exception of Benaulim constituency where their candidate came second even though the winning margin was over 5,000.
 
 Such a poor showing has many aspiring candidates worried about their future in politics with the party, sources said. An AAP candidate, on the condition of anonymity, said that almost all AAP’s candidates lost their deposits in a crucial election wherein voters were fed up with the ruling BJP as well as the Congress due to their constant inner bickering. 
 
 Conceding defeat at the counting centre, Gomes aptly put it, “We brought AAP’s philosophy before the people of Goa. We tried to place our views, philosophy and what we stand for before the Goans. But it did not work.”
 
 Gomes promised to continue to work at the grassroots level to strengthen the party base and try its luck at the panchayat elections in May this year but so far nothing seems to be happening at ground zero as most of the candidates are back at work.
 
 If one goes by election results in nine constituencies of Pernem, Bicholim, Saligao, Sakhali, Poriem, Valpoi, Priol, Mormugao, and Canacona, AAP candidates polled less than 500 votes each. 
 
 In 10 constituencies of Mandrem, Tivim, Porvorim, St Andre, Mayem, Ponda, Shiroda, Madkai, Vasco, Sanguem, party candidates attracted less than 1,000 each. AAP candidates in 10 constituencies of Siolim, Calangute, Panaji, Taleigao, St Cruz, Dabolim, Fatorda, Margao, Navelim, Quepem received above 1,000 votes each.
 
 
