Mumbai: Almost five years after the launch of the revolutionary   stents in India, Union health authorities on Monday issued a medical   cautioning patients and doctors and asking them to report any problems.

 A note posted on the website of Central Drugs Standard Control Organization ( ) cited “safety concerns” as the reason. “Based on three years’ clinical data analysis from ABSORB II (trial), it has been observed that there is an over-elevated rate of major adverse cardiac events, specifically, myocardial infarction and scaffold thrombosis,” it said. Myocardial infarction is another term for heart attacks. The trial had compared bio-resorbable stents with drug-eluting stents, which are the most widely used cardiac devices.
 
 A senior CDSCO official, though, clarified to TOI that “this isn’t a ban or restriction on use, it is merely a cautionary exercise”.
 
 He said the note followed an European Union decision earlier this month to stop open sale of these stents and only allow its “restrictive sale” through trial registries at certain institutions. EU will monitor the stents till a review in 2018. “After the manufacturer Abbott brought the EU decision to our notice, we decided to inform our doctors, distributors and patients about these concerns,” said the official, adding that the US hasn’t placed any restriction so far.
 
 The bio-resorbable stents were considered a path-breaking invention by MNC Abbott as these dissolve around three years after implantation, leaving no foreign metal like the drug-eluting stents, which are tiny scaffolding-like devices to clear blockages in arteries. While 5.6 lakh drug-eluting stents were used in India in 2015, the bio-resorbable ones account for a mere fraction. Abbott officials acknowledged that bio-resorbable stents comprise 1% of their overall   portfolio in India.
 
 These stents were not only expensive at Rs 1.9 lakh a piece—until the capping exercise pegged them at almost Rs 30,000—but doctors need special training to deploy these. “If a doctor uses very high pressure to deploy these stents, they will crack,” said a public hospital doctor.
 
 Delhi-based cardiologist Dr Ashok Seth, who has used a maximum number of bio-resorbable stents in India, said the implantation technique and choice of patients (with arteries that aren’t small and narrow) are of prime importance. “We have over 99% success because we choose patients carefully,” he said, adding that the results of a large ongoing study would be available in a few years. “The randomized studies done when the stent was introduced in 2012-2013 demonstrated a higher incidence of clotting if implanted in small vessels (of less than 2.5mm) and if proper implantation technique was not used,” he said.
 
 An Abbott spokesperson said the company notified the DCGI last week that post-marketing registries are being initiated in Europe to monitor the dissolvable stent’s implantation technique. “The stent continues to be commercially available in Europe through the registries,” the spokesperson added.
 
 Dr Prafulla Kerkar, who heads the KEM Hospital’s cardiology department, said, “The advisory note shouldn’t be a cause for alarm for patients. The fact that the government has not taken any further action underlines this. It only means that doctors have to continue the blood thinners for longer and look at their patients more carefully.”
 
 ‘SAFETY CONCERNS’
 
 Bio-resorbable stents were introduced in India in Mumbai in Decmeber 2012 by Abbott
 
 They were considered path-breaking as they dissolve in about three years, leaving no foreign metal behind
 
 From April 1, EU allowed only restrictive sale of such stents till a review in 2018
 
 Indian CDSCO has cited elevated rate of ‘adverse cardiac events’
 
 
