New Delhi:   functionary Atishi Marlena and MLAs, Sarita Singh and Alka Lamba, will meet the Delhi   chief on Tuesday to complain against rape threats issued to DU student   Kaur. Last week, Kaur spoke out against   in connection with the violence at   College.

 On Monday, in response to MoS (home) Kiran Rijiju’s tweet on Kaur’s post wherein he said: “Who’s polluting this young girl’s mind? A strong arm force prevents a war. India never attacked anyone but a weak India was always invaded,” Marlena asked: “Who is polluting the minds of ABVP workers who go around beating people...who issue death and rape threats to women on social media?”
 
 Calling ABVP the goon brigade of BJP, AAP has asked what action has been taken by police against those ABVP members who allegedly indulged in violence at Ramjas College last week. Marlena said that Delhi Police, which has travelled to even Gujarat to arrest an AAP MLA, had failed to take action against a single ABVP member despite proof of violence against them. 
 
 “Kaur, who spoke out against ABVP’s violence, is being explicitly threatened with rape but what has Delhi Police done about it. This is not about specific threats. Women are being threatened online with death and rape all the time and many of those issuing these threats are people being followed by senior BJP members, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” added Marlena. 
 
 Singh, AAP MLA from Rohtas Nagar, said BJP was trying to capture Indian universities through ABVP’s “gundagardi”. “DU and JNU have united over several issues in the past year. What has happened over the past two years that there is no space for dissent, that difference of opinion is tackled through violence,” she asked. 
 
 The party accused Delhi Police of playing to the tune of the Centre, harassing those who spoke out against BJP and its allies and not taking action against those genuinely guilty of perpetuating violence. Chandni Chowk MLA Alka Lamba spoke about journalists who were threatened and heckled by some people at Patiala House court last year and mentioned BJP MLA O P Sharma who was caught on camera beating up people outside the court. 
 
 “What action has been taken against these people? BJP has made it a habit of lodging cases against those whom it targets and while they are harassed by the police, no action is ever taken against the real culprits,” she said.
 
