Panaji: The double decker hop-on-hop-off bus service may have not been launched by Goa   Development Corporation ( ), but that has not stopped authorities from utilizing the buses. City residents on Thursday were amused to find that the double decker bus was being used by the department of fire services to trim tree branches.

 GTDC has procured four buses—two double decker and two single deck buses — and is likely to launch them by the end of the month. Aside from delays in getting the requisite permissions from the transport department, the buses have also run into low-hanging branches and wires strung across the road.
 
 “An order was issued to the concerned departments to trim the branches, which are one of the safety concerns for passengers touring in the double- decker buses. Based on the order issued, the respective departments had begun trimming of the branches today on the bus route between Paryatan Bhavan and Bhagwan Mahaveer Garden, Panaji,” GTDC general manager Gavin Dias said.
 
 Apart from the branches, several low-hanging electric wires and cables, which were already attended to by the electricity department,   broadband company and the local cable TV operators, have also been moved to higher levels ensuring safety of passengers and buses, GTDC officials said. The work was undertaken by the forest department, Corporation of the City of Panaji, police traffic cell, mamlatdar office and fire and emergency services.
 
 “This is also a part of the pre-monsoon measures undertaken under disaster management by the concerned departments,” Dias said.
 
 Citizens watching the officials and firemen using the bus to trim branches wondered whether it was an exercise of folly as the falling branches could have damaged the bus.
 
 “We had to deploy the bus to judge the height of the branches. It would have been pointless to ask the Fire Brigade to cut the branches and to then find that the job had not been done,” Manoj Kumar Daniel of Pune-based transport company Prasanna Purple said.
 
 The buses are owned by Prasanna Purple and have been taken on contract by GTDC. Prasanna Purple will continue to operate the buses on the Ribandar, Miramar and Dona Paula route.
 
 GTDC and Prasanna Purple have received the permit to operate the double decker buses in the capital and a call on the formal launch will be taken in the coming days, officials said.
 
 
