NAGPUR: There are 81 women corporators in the newly elected 151-member   (NMC). The figure is six more than the last time. Though this augurs well for women empowerment, it also raises serious doubts about their capabilities as many of them were in the fray “because their husbands could not contest due to reservations”.

 Not only are several of them first-timers, many who TOI spoke to across parties do not have the faintest idea of what is expected out of them and what their contribution should be. 
 
 Calls to at least eight women corporators were answered by their husbands, some of who wanted to speak on behalf of their wives. The lack of confidence in the women becomes obvious as these numbers were mentioned on their affidavits filed with the election body.
 
 Many fumbled with the answers, their level of awareness seemed abysmally low. When asked about their agendas, many were totally at sea of what improvements their wards need. “I will identify the problems faced by people and use all the funds for solving them,” – a vague answer came from a BSP’s woman corporator, a Std IX pass-out, from North Nagpur.
 
 Another newly elected corporator of the same party put her phone on the loudspeaker and her husband could be heard prompting answers to TOI’s queries. One of the corporator’s son insisted that he would speak on behalf of his mother. 
 
 In another instance, the husband of a   corporator (SSC passed) from East Nagpur picked up her phone and demanded that the questions should be directed to him. “First you tell me your queries so that I can tell her the background and prepare her,” he said. The husband has been a senior party member since many years. 
 
 There are many who contested simply out of compulsion as seats were reserved for women. “My husband is associated with Congress since many years and had contested last time. But since this time the reservation was for women, the party asked me to stand in elections,” admitted a young corporator from a ward in North Nagpur.
 
 Those who won as a panel are at the mercy of stronger and more experienced members. “My other panel members are very senior. I am sure they will help me out as this is my first time,” said a BJP corporator.
 
 In stark contrast to them, there are some fresh faces who are rearing to go. At 61, BJP’s   from ward 1 is one the oldest corporators. A retired vice-principal, Mathrani feels her strong experience and leadership skills will make her an efficient corporator. “I have identified the basic problems of my ward and know what people want. My prime focus will be on problems related to cleanliness, hygiene and water supply,” she said. 
 
 Senior party leaders accepted that being first-timers, many female corporators are inexperienced. “Former corporators of the party will train them on different aspects like house proceedings, problem-solving, conducting public meetings and others. Most of their husbands are office-bearers of the party and will guide them,” said general secretary of BSP Uttam Shevde.
 
 While there is a fear about accessibility of corporators, BJP city chief   in a meeting held on Saturday evening directed the corporators to open centres in every prabhag where people can directly meet the corporators and share their problems.
 
