Jaisalmer: Barmer administration on Friday handed over 11,418 bighas (4,567 acre) of land to HPCL for refinery at Pachpadra and a lease deed agreement and registration was signed by district collector SP Shiv Prasad Nakate on behalf of the state government and HPCL executive director Shekhar Gayakwad. There is a possibility of PM Modi coming to Pachpadra in October for laying the foundation stone of the refinery.

 HPCL and state government will jointly set up the refinery. After four years, once again activities have started in regard to refinery and people are quite excited.
 
 District collector Shiv Prasad Nakate said on Friday that the government and HPCL signed a lease deed agreement and registration for the refinery at Pachpadra and 11,418 bighas of land was allotted to the company and in Pachpadara office. “Lease deed agreement and registration was signed with HPCL executive director Shekhar Gayakwad and I signed on behalf of the state government,” he said.
 
 He said a meeting was organized for refinery establishment in Pachpadra in which all officers of district were present. Directions were given to all departments to coordinate with HPCL and fulfil every requirement. Water, power and roads will be provided along with boundary wall that will be made worth Rs 50 crore. Tenders have been floated. Approach road of 2km will be made. Along with this to build the refinery, 50 million gallons per day water will be required, at present water through pipeline from Nagana will be brought here, later drinking water will be arranged through Nachna-Phalsoon project.
 
 The collector said after refinery comes into existence, around 28MGD water will be required for which separate pipeline from Nachna will be laid. Along with this order has been given to acquire 105 hectares of land at Nachna for making a reservoir. A separate grid sub-station will be made for the refinery.
 
 On the other hand, HPCL spoke to BSNL for the telecommunication connection. Confirming this, Jaisalmer Barmer telecom officer R C Vyas said on the request of HPCL, he had gone with the team to see the spot for providing telephone connection. He has assured HPCL that they will provide the telecom facility as per their need on priority. He said HPCL has applied for 4mbps line for which they have deposited the amount.
 
 
