JAIPUR: Agitating medical teachers called off their   late on Thursday evening. At around 11.30 PM, they headed to health minister Kalicharan Sarf’s house to announce their decision.

 A four-hour-long meeting was held before Rajasthan Medical College Teachers Association took the decision. “The government has fulfilled our demands. Now, we are going to announce our decision of calling off the strike,” RMCTA secretary Dr   said.
 
 Dr Agarwal said that the government has changed the orders, which were issued on March 7. 
 
 “We were protesting against the order as it was giving lateral entry to medical officers into teaching. But, now the government has issued directions that the new order will not be implemented in the existing seven government medical colleges. But, it will be implemented on the new medical colleges coming up in different districts.”
 
 RMCTA senior vice-president Dr   said, “A society will be formed which will be engaged in recruitment of teaching faculties in the new government medical colleges. In new medical colleges, the medical officers can apply and through the process, they will get appointment as per their qualification and experience, this is what the government has assured us.” 
 
 Earlier, all medical teachers in seven government medical colleges started sending their resignation from their post protesting against government’s decision on giving “lateral entry to medical officers in teaching’ on Thursday.
 
 The protest triggered from Jaipur’s   medical college having its ripple effect in all medical colleges of the state.
 
 Earlier in the day, RMCTA office bearers met health minister   twice. The minister assured them that the orders will not be implemented. But, the agitating doctor had decided not to call off until they do not receive it in written. 
 
 Late in the evening, they received it in written and called off the strike.
 
 The medical teachers had protested against the government decision alleging that the government is giving ‘lateral entry to medical officers into teaching’. 
 
 They are protesting against it. Even SMS medical college principal and superintendent had resigned from their posts on Wednesday.
 
 On March 7, the medical education department issued an order mentioning that they have given administration approval for principal specialist to get the post of professor, senior specialist as associate professor and junior specialist as assistant professor.
 
 The posts of principal specialist, senior specialist and junior specialist come under health department but they have the postings in medical colleges. 
 
 However, the RMCTA officials said that the   (MCI) norms say that a doctor can become a professor (anatomy) only after he competes four years as reader/ associate professor in a recognised medical college. RMCTA officials said that they have become professor by getting timely promotions. But, in the government orders, a doctor on the post of principal specialist in medical college can get the post of professor directly.
 
 
