KERI:  , a recipient of the President’s national award as ‘Best Teacher’, who is working with traditional knowledge-holders from  , presented traditional knowledge associated with traditional medicine used for treating Herpes (Sarpin) and manufacturing of traditional drinks of Cazuchi and   at a national dialogue held in Shimla, Himachal Pradesh.

 Herpes caused by Herpes Simplex Virus shows presence of red and itchy rash, mainly on the back, chest, scalp and face causing pain in abdomen, headache, dry cough and fever.
 
 Healthcare practioner, Margarida da Costa, 62, of Curtorim has been giving traditional medicines for curing herpes for around 45 years by using the ‘rozonn’ plant (memecylon umbellatum). 
 
 Since, there is no definite cure for herpes disease, those affected visit Costa at Curtorim for treatment and have reported being cured.
 
 Fernandes also explained the process of distillation of cashew feni and distillation of coconut feni which has already received geographical indication with the government classifying it as heritage spirit of Goa.
 
 At the national conclave of Biodiversity Management Committees, Radhika Sawant, sarpanch of Penha de Franca, shared her experience on access benefits, the working of the biodiversity management committee and how they documented the varied ecosystems in their panchayat jurisdiction.
 
 Ramona Almeida, a member of the Velim biodiversity management committee, explained the process of documenting flora and fauna and traditional knowledge associated with the bio-resources of the area.
 
 Experts from government and non-governmental organisations along with members from different state biodiversity boards were participated. 
 
 Member secretary of Goa state biodiversity board   while, speaking to TOI, said, “Goans are following many traditions along with traditional medicinal practices in their day-to-day life. The Goan team of experts received good response. We want to continue the process of benefit-sharing between the custodian of biological resource and knowledge holders.”
 
 The state co-ordinator of GSBB Vidhya Gaude said, “By strengthening the work of Biodiversity Management Committees, we have already initiated work of documenting traditional knowledge and access and benefit sharing for sustainable use of biological resources.”
 
 
