NEW DELHI:   and former cabinet minister Kapil Mishra’s attack on   saw AAP legislators and senior party functionaries rush to Twitter to counter the allegations and drum up support for the chief minister.

 Interestingly, the most vociferous support came from senior AAP functionary   who was last week seen questioning Kejriwal’s style of functioning, the party’s stand on EVMs and concern over decisions being taken “behind closed doors”.
 
 The first signs of unrest in AAP started emerging after Vishwas released a video on nationalism where he was seen cautioning the AAP government given the fact that the party had won the polls on the anti-corruption plank. He said if the party does not speak up against corruption by its own people then the public will question AAP too.
 
 On Sunday, after Mishra made the allegations, Vishwas met Kejriwal at his residence and told mediapersons: “I am hurt and sad at the development. We can have disagreements and be angry with each other, but I have a firm belief that Arvind Kejriwal can never take bribe and even his worst enemy will not think that he can be involved corrupt practices.”
 
 Vishwas said, “Kejriwal has said a hundred times that if   becomes corrupt, we should throw him out. He also said that if he was found involved in corrupt practices, then we should all come together and throw him out.”
 
 “Within the party, we talk about anything from nationalism to discrepancies in ticket distribution and where we went wrong in our political agenda. But going out and making allegations without any basis is wrong. It is wrong to create such a sensation. Be it Kapil or Amanatullah, they should follow the party procedure and decisions will be taken by PAC,” Vishwas added.
 
 Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti was also seen actively rallying support for Kejriwal. He tweeted, “Jitna mein janta hoon, Arvind ji kuch bhi ho saktey hain lekin bhrashtachar sey inka gehra bair hai. Inkey puraney saathi bhi is baat ko dankey ki chot pey kehtey hain (As far as I know, whatever Arvind may be, he has deep enmity with corruption. Even his old co-workers say this with conviction).”
 
 Bharti added that because of Mishra’s “baseless allegations”, Kejriwal’s “old, new, upset and angry co-workers have come together to support him on one platform.” He further tweeted: “BJP, by the way Kapil had some time back called BJP an ISI agent. Get that investigated too.”
 
