Whether it’s your anniversary, an attempt to make up to your partner for forgetting their birthday or trying to seek forgiveness for some stupid faux pas, posting a picture documenting your relationship on social media will get the job done. Because in this age, nothing validates your relationship better than a visual proof that’s up for the world to see. But, you cannot just put up any or everything. For example, if you post a picture where your health freak girlfriend’s thigh gap is zero, well, you may not even know what a thigh gap is but you will soon know what ass-whooping is. So, to keep in sync with your kind of relationship, and also gain some brownie points from your better half, we have curated the best of celebrity couple Instagrams that you can take cue from. Don’t worry, we will decode each one for you, for easy reference.

 
 
  
 
 Here’s Victoria Beckham looking at David Beckham the way we all look at him. 
 
 That you know, there might be many out there who would be fortunate to feature in this picture in your place but you are the lucky one. And you are comfortable and happy in that knowledge. Because you get to look at, or be looked at, in that way, even when the cameras are not running.
 
  The classic couple, who do not need to pull off any antic to attract attention. Attraction, attention, class… you’ve had it all in the eons that you have been together.
 
 
  
  
 Here’s Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth lazing around in the goofiest of clothes, with their dog.
 
 That you are crazy comfortable in each other’s company and have invested in joint holdings — the pet — which means you are committed to a future together.
 
  The couple who are always social-perfect. Because the world is well aware of your designer clothes and exciting social life, thanks to the million check-ins and posts your put up, but they have no clue about what goes on with you two inside your four walls.
 
 
  
  
 
 Here’s a picture that Blake Lively posted of herself and husband Ryan Reynolds checking out his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
 
  That you couldn’t be more proud of your partner’s achievement and modesty can go take a trip around the world while you show it off like there’s no tomorrow. It also signifies that you, as well as your partner, believe it to be an achievement that’s as much yours as it is theirs. Because, you guys are a team.
 
  The couple who are a team as much in the outside world as they are in the home front.
 
 
 
  
 
 Here’s Kim Kardashian sneakily taking a picture of Kanye West, who is driving, but more importantly, smiling.
 
  That you have got your eyes on him/her. That the world will probably never get to see the facets of him/her that you see everyday. That you adore the fact that he/she is so much more with you that what meets the eye. 
 
 For the partner who has caught their bae on film, doing something totally uncharacteristic. Like Kanye smiling here.
 
 
  
  
 
 Here’s Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik being the most elastic couple of all time.
 
 That your bae is sexy, and you cannot have enough of showing her off. This picture shows that you’re a cool and confident partner, who is proud of what you have.
 
  The adventurous couple, who could not care less about the world judging them.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Here’s a picture Chrissy Teigen posted of John Legend chilling in a pool, cradling their baby, and captioned it ‘<3’.
 
  That you have entered the family phase and are owning it. Life is not about yourself anymore and you are more than happy to share everything that used to be just about you. This kind of picture signifies peace, that only comes when you have faced the fire in a relationship, together.
 
  The couple, who have just become parents. Because, it’s an ode to your partner, who is not just a partner anymore, but also a mum or a dad.
 
 
  
  
 
 Here’s an unreal picture of Jenna Dewan that husband Channing Tatum posted, without any caption, probably because he agreed with us that it needed none.
 
  That you can not take your eyes off her. It says that even with no make-up and messy hair, your girl still is the angel you always hoped for. And that you appreciate her beauty, that you cannot define in words.
 
  The boyfriend, who has pissed his girlfriend off, by being exceptionally stupid — because he said that she was looking a little fat in that dress.
 
  
 
  
 
 Here are Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka confusing their followers in a picture that makes no sense. Just to give you a little context, this is not a brilliant in-motion capture. This is just a genius picture, where the flying birds, the bench and the woman being mauled by the birds are part of a street art piece by Banksy.
 
 That you get him/her. You get the weirdo, the numbnut and the joker that he/she is, and you absolutely revel in their ability to make you laugh, while also making the world laugh. It signifies that you have your own little secrets, which you will probably never reveal to the world, but will, once in a while, give the world a sneak-peek off, just to make them jealous of what you two have.
 
 The couple who have an amazing sense of humour and whose posts rarely make sense to anybody apart from their partner.
 
 
 
