Madurai: The Sri Lankan government amending its Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act tightening rules against trawl fishing on Sri Lankan waters has put Tamil Nadu fishermen in a spot. The amendment will enable the island nation to penalise fishermen indulging in trawling with an imprisonment of two years and Rs 50,000 fine. Rameswaram fishermen have announced an   and threatened to immolate themselves on July 14 condemning the new act. 

 Ever since the civil war broke out in  , the row over fishing between Sri Lankan and Indian fishermen had worsened resulting in shootings, detention and apprehension of boats and fishing gear. At last count, there were 70 fishermen and 146 fishing crafts of Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry in Sri Lankan custody. 
 
 In these circumstances, an amendment on Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment) Act was passed in Sri Lankan parliament on July 6 banning trawling, especially bottom trawling, on Sri Lankan waters. The law, applicable to all Sri Lankan nationals, aims to eliminate the use of trawling in the country’s waters. 
 
 However, it has turned out to be a threat to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry fishermen fishing in their “traditional waters”, something which has been a bone of contention between the fishermen of both countries. 
 
 B Jesuraja, fishermen leader at Rameswaram, said that such exorbitant fine and prison sentence will cripple the fishing industry along the coast. “There is no running ground for our fishermen and we have been fishing in Palk Strait for ages. We have no other go than immolate ourselves”, he said. 
 
 The fishers are also worried that the amendment will invite a fine of Rs 2 crore to Rs 20 crores on any foreign fishing vessel trespassing on Sri Lankan waters. Sri Lankan fishermen however said that such an act was in the offing but is yet to be presented in the parliament. 
 
 The present amendment was a result of a long struggle of smallscale fishermen associations in the country against bottom trawling practised by affluent fishermen of the Island nation. 
 
 “It is intriguing to see the amendment pertaining to Sri Lankan fishermen and waters creating so much of anxiety among Indian fishermen. It is clear that they have been fishing in our waters”, stated Mohammed Alam, fishermen leader at Mannar, Sri Lanka. 
 
 True to his opinion, Indian fishermen are not always held in Palk waters between India and Sri Lanka but in Trincomalee area, the north eastern side of Sri Lanka, too. Besides, Indian fishers have been asking for a time frame to phase out trawl fishing since 2010 but no solid measures had been taken to quit the practice. Sri Lankan fishers have been presenting these facts during the bilateral talks, even during the last talks in November 2016. 
 
 Fishermen activist U Arulanandam of Alliance for Innocent Fishermen opined that the amendment though targeting Sri Lankan fishers may become a real threat to Indian fishermen trespassing on Lankan waters. Earlier they have been prosecuted under provisions of Passport Act and use of illegal fishing practices inviting the penalty of short prison term and confiscation of crafts and fishing gear. The amendment has given more teeth to the country’s fisheries act, he said. 
 
 Retired Colonel R Hariharan, former Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) Intelligence Corps chief, stated that 1,500 to 2,000 fishing trawlers on a fishing trip foraging into Sri Lankan waters had driven them to the wall and there was lot of pressure from Tamil fishermen there towards their government. “Our Tamil Nadu political leaders should visit Northern Sri Lanka and have a dialogue with Tamil politicians there to resolve the issue. With a destructive trawl fishing, our fishermen are destroying the livelihood of Tamil fishermen in Sri Lanka who have come back to fishing after the civil war. It is time our fishermen move towards deep sea fishing and stop trawling”, he said. 
 
 State finance minister D Jayakumar, who is also holding fisheries portfolio, said that the state government reiterated its stand that the waters are traditional fishing grounds of Tamil Nadu fishermen. 
 
 “We are against ceding Katchatheevu island to Sri Lanka and demand retrieving it. Such amendment by Sri Lankan government is not acceptable. We will take up the issue with the Union government”, he said. 
 
 
