PATNA/NEW DELHI:   resigned as Bihar chief minister on Wednesday after splitting with   over corruption charges against the latter’s son but will regain the post in less than 24 hours, this time with BJP’s support.

 The saffron party came to the JD(U) boss’s assistance as part of a script which he and Prime Minister   had prepared well in advance.
 
 West Bengal governor  , who is holding charge of the state, had been stationed in Patna to facilitate Nitish’s swearing-in as CM for the fifth time.
 
 BJP’s parliamentary board, which happened to be in session around the same time to finalise nominees for the Rajya Sabha polls, came in handy and promptly endorsed the decision to support steps to “avoid mid-term polls in Bihar”.
 
 BJP will join a Nitish-led government, reviving the coalition which worked successfully until 2013 when they split over the JD(U) leader’s resistance to BJP projecting Modi as its PM candidate for the 2014 polls. This marks a big realignment of forces before the 2019 contest and comes as a psychological boost for BJP. 
 
 It can create complications for the   and others in the opposition who were already groping for ways to counter BJP’s growing dominance, and can strengthen the effort to reinforce the “secular” alliance by bringing in new players like SP and BSP. 
 
 Modi, said to be behind the rapprochement, led the reception for Nitish by hailing him for his stand against corruption.
 
 Modi’s praise for Nitish was seen as an indication of BJP’s gameplan to turn the 2019 polls into a referendum on corruption. Nitish warmly reciprocated.
 
 “I thank the honourable PM from the bottom of my heart for his reaction following my decision,” he tweeted, marking the beginning of a new phase in equations between the two leaders who sparred bitterly in the lead-up to the 2014 battle despite having a whole lot in common — from their OBC background and tough posture against corruption to their reputation as good administrators who are not deterred by details.
 
 Their fight was one of the defining themes of the 2014 polls and it escalated when the PM led a determined BJP bid to oust Nitish as CM in the 2015 state polls. The latter managed to thwart the challenge by casting the latest round as a “Bihari versus outsider (Bihari banam bahari)” contest.
 
 Though even a week is a long time in politics and the tensions between them had begun to thaw, few would have expected matters between the two to come a full circle in the manner they did on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 Ties between Nitish and Lalu, which got strained over the CM’s insistence that the RJD boss’s son and deputy CM   came clean on corruption charges against him, snapped on Wednesday when Lalu got the entire RJD flock to en-dorse his stand that Tejashwi, his putative successor, need not heed Nitish’s demand for a rejoinder to each specific charge of corruption.
 
 The CBI and   have accused Tejashwi of acquiring assets worth several crores despite having no known source of income.
 
 Lalu’s rebuff turned out to be the catalyst for dramatic developments to unfold at a dizzying pace. JD(U) promptly backed the CM who announced his resignation, playing the victim card and taking the moral high ground. “Though I never asked for anyone’s resignation, it would have been better if things had been clarified (by RJD). That would have helped me. 
 
 However, I did not receive any reply or clarification. Under this condition, I had no other option left. I have always worked for Bihar’s cause, but I will not support a wrong cause for the sake of stability. I had to take a stand and I did. A person like me cannot function in circumstances like these,” Nitish said.
 
 “I have always functioned in accordance with my values and when things went against them, I have left. The government I was leading claimed to be committed towards Bihar’s development.
 
 But when I realised that I cannot pursue the welfare of the state with the same commitment, I felt that rather than asking anyone else to resign, I should resign myself. I have submitted my resignation to the governor and he has accepted it,” he added.
 
