BENGALURU: The Congress  , which was expected to get a boost in the run up to the polls, will now have little to fill your plate.

 Now, as part of the scheme, all that the beneficiaries will get will be seven kilos of carbohydrate (rice) and a kilo of protein (tur dal).
 
 The food and civil supplies department has decided not to supply ragi, a staple in south  , and provide wheat only on demand for people of north Karnataka. It has also decided to stop distributing palm oil, sugar and salt.
 
 During the scheme's launch in 2013, chief minister   had announced 30kg of rice per Below Poverty Line (BPL) family. Over the last four years, demand for variety , spike in black-marketing of rice and efforts to capture people's imagination drove the government to reinvent the scheme.
 
 In 2015-16, the government began publicizing that it'd add 2kg of ragiwheatjowar, based on regional staples, and cut down on the quantity of rice being supplied. It also promised a kilo of salt and sugar with a litre of palm oil.Beneficiaries of the scheme were getting all of these till early this year. However, now these add-ons have all been scrapped. Just a kilo of tur dal has been added to seven kilos of rice for every BPL card-holder.
 
 Food and civil supplies department officials claimed the government stopped lifting jo whar or ragi as there was no “demand“ for them.
 
 Confirming that the government has decided to scrap ragi and jowar, minister U T Khader said: “We have stopped supplying ragi and jowar to BPL families. We have also stopped providing some of the other items due to factors such as low price and non-availability of central government subsidy .“ The only other foodgrain which is available under Anna Bhagya is wheat, which, the minister said, is being provided on demand only in north Karnataka districts.
 
 So, has this move helped the government save money?
 Khader says though the state government might have saved on these add-ons, it'll have to bear the cost of increased quantity of rice (from 5 to 7kg), apart from the cost incurred on Anila Bhagya, a new scheme to provide free LPG connections and gas stoves to BPL families.
 
