PUNE: The State  , in a bid to crack down on  , has decided not to grant clearances to any new   in Pune district. 

 This decision places a roadblock in the way of an earlier proposal for 24 new quarries, which the committee has opposed. This is also a major relief to residents of the proposed sites —  , Bhavadi, Perene and Lonikand.
 
 Several cases of stone quarries not complying with norms have been reported. Also, the residents had already filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal about stone-crushing units causing major inconveniences. The hearing in this matter is ongoing. In the light of these developments, the   decided not to increase the number of stone quarries in these areas. 
 
 There are 500 stone-crushing units and around 600 quarries spread across the district, supplying rubble to various construction projects. 
 
 As per the rules, every quarry leaseholder should take all possible precautions to protect the environment, wild life habitat, flora and fauna of that area, and minimize pollution. 
 
 “Most of the quarries are not following rules,” said T C Benjamin, SEAC chairperson. “The particulate matter in the air was very high because of the high pollution levels [causing serious health hazards to the residents],” he added. 
 
 Through the petition, the residents requested for closure of these units to prevent any further damage to air, land and agriculture in the vicinity. They also demanded strict action against non-compliant operators. 
 
 “The conveyor belts used in stone-crushing units were supposed to be covered, but were not, letting off dust into the air, causing gross air pollution. Also, most of these places also don’t sprinkle water to contain the dust,” added Benjamin, who was of the opinion that all quarrying in Wagholi, which is a part of the city, should cease. . 
 
 “Keeping this in mind, we decided that we should not clear any more quarries,” Benjamin added.
 
 For their part, district administration have stated that, with help from PMRDA, they would first ready maps of every unit with the help of the satellite maps, and then comply with the SEAC’s directives. “Once we examine all these units, we can make the required amendments and then apply to the district environment committee,” said the district mining officer.
 
 Last year, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board acted on repeated complaints of air pollution and decided to shut down 106 stone-crushing plants. A few units were given to restart only after they started complying with rules. The MPCB’s decision on the rest is pending. 
 
