NOIDA: Two more policemen have been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty in the mysterious death of 22-year-old Manipur-based student, Pravish Chanam, in Noida on September 9. Earlier, two sub-inspectors and one constable were suspended and the SHO of Knowledge Park police station sent to Police Lines.

 Pravish went missing after he attended a concert on September 8 and was found dead the next day.
 
 The family members of the youth met SSP Noida on Friday and submitted a four-page application demanding a fair investigation into his mysterious death.
 
 Ravikanta Chanam, Pravish’s older brother, said there were several lapses in the police response and investigation. “Knowledge Park station personnel did not make any effort to search the missing person while the   in-charge failed to publish information and establish the identity when the body was found. The postmortem report stated the death was due to ‘shock and haemorrhage due to head injury’, which means the death was unnatural but the police did not initiate any further investigation,” he said.
 
 Ravikanta also said there was gross negligence on the part of district hospital. The family said the body was cremated on September 13. “The family members and friends had reached district hospital on that day to enquire about the matter. But the hospital authorities did not even inform us that the body was cremated,” he said. 
 
 The family members demanded a thorough investigation into the matter by a competent authority. “We want to know the chain of events that led to his death. We also demand appropriate and timely action against the culprits,” he said.
 
 SSP Love Kumar has assured them of swift investigation. 
 
 On Friday, two more officers — Shripal Babu, a clerk at Sector 20 police station and constable Dharmendra Kumar at Nithari Chowki — were suspended for dereliction of duty. Prabhat Dixit, PRO  , said these officers had received information about the body but did not inform control room or the   (DCRB). Due to this, the Knowledge Park police could not receive information and the body remained unidentified.
 
 Meanwhile, members of Northeast Forum For International Solidarity (NEFIS) on Friday held a protest outside the SSP Noida office demanding justice.
 
 
