PATNA: Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) is conducting a study on four-laning of Danapur-Digha-Ashok Rajpath Road in order to make it congestion-free. Senior BRPNNL officials claimed that several stretches of this road would also be elevated. 

 "The study is being conducted to explore various aspects of the proposed four-laning works, including land acquisition and cost estimates. It is in the preliminary stage at present," said Ranjan Kumar, managing director of BRPNNL.
 
 Sources claimed chief minister   had suggested to develop an elevated road on Danapur-Digha-Ashok Rajpath during a review of the draft of detailed project report (DPR) for development of Patna as a 'smart city'in a meeting held under his chairmanship on March 8. The work for conducting study for the proposed road was later handed over to road construction department, which has in turn assigned the work to its executing agency BRPNNL.
 
 One of the busiest thoroughfares, the stretch of the road from   to Ashok Rajpath is around 25km and it is quite narrow at several places, leading to frequent snarls. Sources claimed that elevated roads are proposed to be constructed at places where there would be issues in land acquisition. 
 
 Sources claimed the proposed four-lane road would also act as a feeder to Lok Nayak Ganga Path, commonly known as Ganga driveway. The Ganga driveway is a 23.5km-long expressway along the banks of the Ganga in Patna, which has its southern tip at Digha. 
 
 Ganga Path, a dream project of Nitish, is already delayed as not more than 10% of the work has been completed on the project, which had an initial deadline of October next year. The deadline has, however, now been extended to 2019-end.
 
 Besides, the   road would provide connectivity to the Digha-AIIMS elevated highway as well. Senior officials in Bihar   Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL) said around 80% of the work has been completed in the elevated highway project. 
 
 "The two major stretches of the road left to be constructed include a rail overbridge at Khagaul and another small bridge over Rupaspur road overbridge," said a senior official in BSRDCL.
 
