New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal challenged BJP national president Amit Shah to a debate on the performance of the BJP-ruled states in the context of his party’s governance in Delhi. In his first campaign meeting for the municipal polls on Friday, Kejriwal slammed the BJP-led municipal corporations for “corruption” and said they had turned the capital into one massive garbage dump.

 Kejriwal began his 35-minute speech in Sant Nagar, a low-income settlement in Burari, by reminding the crowd that at a recent rally at Ramlila Maidan, Shah had claimed Kejriwal and Aam Aadmi Party had done no work in Delhi in its two years in power. “I challenge Amit Shah to a debate on the work done by BJP in the states it rules and by AAP in Delhi,” said Kejriwal.
 
 To drive home his point to the BJP national president, Kejriwal toted out some figures. “In Delhi, anyone consuming up to 400 units of power pays a bill of Rs 1,379,” he said. “In Gujarat, the charge for consuming the same amount of power is Rs 2,700. In Mumbai, it is Rs 4,000, while in Karnataka, the bill come to Rs 2,700.”
 
 Kejriwal cautioned the people that “the power and water tariffs will increase if either BJP or the Congress comes to power in the civic bodies”. He claimed that both BJP and Congress had “hatched a conspiracy” to snatch the departments of power and water from the AAP government, though this would not be possible if AAP was victorious in the corporation polls.
 
  “Two days ago, a senior BJP leader met me and confided that a big conspiracy was being hatched. He told me that if either Congress or BJP comes to power in the civic bodies, they will increase the power and water rates in Delhi,” he alleged.
 
 To jeers from the partisan crowd, Kejriwal continued, “When I asked how this could be possible, the BJP leader told me that the centre planned to take the power and water departments from the Delhi government’s purview and give them to the corporations.”
 
 The CM then criticised BJP for its decade-long stay in power in the municipal corporations. “I challenge anyone to come forward and tell me about one good work that BJP has done in 10 years. In fact, BJP has converted the capital into one big garbage dump,” Kejriwal said. The AAP leader promised that if his party won the civic body polls, it would clean up the city in a single year while effecting a financial turnaround for the corporations.
 
 By holding the first public meeting in Burari, Kejriwal not only seemed to be appealing to his party’s core support base, but also to a significant Purvanchali vote bank. In an emotional speech, he conjured up aspirational images for enthusiastic broom-wielding supporters of lifts and swimming pools in schools, free medicines for the poor in hospitals and free healthcare for every locality through the Mohalla Clinic project.
 
 The CM reminded the voters that his government had paved the way for a steep increase in minimum wages for labourers and added that the current subsidies on power and water would continue. Kejriwal reiterated that property tax on residential properties would be suspended if AAP assumed power in the civic bodies.
 
