Mumbai: The government has allowed   to withdraw its premium drug-eluting cardiac stent   from the domestic market, even as it invoked a public interest clause ordering the company to ensure its availability for a year, after issuance of a public notice. The company had applied to drug price regulator   ( ) seeking withdrawal from the market, due to commercial unviability, following capping of prices earlier this year. 

 This comes soon after Abbott received nod to withdraw its brand of bioresorbable   from India, over global safety concerns.
 
 In the latest case, the NPPA said in a notice that the department of pharmaceuticals has not accepted its request to exercise regulatory powers to restrict withdrawal of cardiac stents from the market. It is “left with no option but to allow formal withdrawal as per the provisions of Para 21(2) of DPCO, 2013”.
 
 The NPPA said that it found the import cost of Alpine brand less than the ceiling price, and as adequate margins were there, so the reason of unviability of sales in India was not understandable. It was also found that these brands have a sizeable market share and its withdrawal would create sudden shortage of stents which would not be in the interest of public health.
 
 The Abbott request for discontinuation of Xience Alpine stent was considered on September 19. The company is yet to issue a notice announcing the withdrawal. 
 
 Abbott had sought to withdraw the Alpine stent, citing that selling the product was unviable here after the maximum prices of all drug-eluting stents were capped at around Rs 29,600 in February this year. 
 
 A company spokesperson told TOI, “The ceiling price that has been set unfortunately makes it an unsustainable business to continue to provide Alpine, given our cost of manufacture and other associated costs. We support patient access and will continue to make our Xience stents available — which are the gold standard — and account for the vast majority of Abbott stents used every year in India. According to the government’s requirements, Alpine will continue to remain available for the stipulated time period. There is no shortage of other Xience coronary stent products, the gold standard in stent technology.” 
 
 The sales of these premium cardiac is a low single-digit. In the Xience family, besides Alpine, the company also sells Xience V, Xience Xpedition and Xience Prime. 
 
 Recently, the NPPA decided to allow immediate withdrawal of Abbott’s bioresorbable Absorb and Absorb GT1 brands of coronary stents by relaxing the mandatory period of six months in public interest. This was done keeping in mind the safety concerns raised by drug regulators in US, Europe and Australia, and also in India. In a meeting held on September 19, the NPPA noted the fact that the safety ‘concerns’ was the prime reason behind low commercial global sales of these brands.
 
 
