NOIDA: Members of   - the youth wing of Lions club - along with Socio-economic Empowerment Foundation of India (SEFI) celebrated mother’s day with 45 children at   (which provides education to children of economically weaker section) in Indira market, sector 27 on Sunday by way of drawing and essay competition organised for the students of the centre.

 While the mothers of some of these children enjoyed playing musical chairs and dancing to various Bollywood songs along with their children on the occasion, the children wrote interesting essays and drew on the topics of 'mother' and 'family'.
 
 “We celebrated mother’s day at Roshini centre for underprivileged children of the city where we tried to bring happy moments for these children and shared the spirit of love and care on the occasion,” said Aditya Srivastava district president Leo Club Noida.
 
 While mothers of these children took to musical chairs and danced to Bollywood numbers, the children took to artwork and writing essays on subjects such as ‘mother’ and ‘family’ given by the Leo members. “Kids up to the age of 8 years were challenged to draw on the topic ‘family’, and those aged 8-14 were asked to write an essay on the topic ‘mother’. There were 20-25 kids in each category. Though their drawing and writing skills were rudimentary, their confidence was something we all could learn from. They wrote and drew with enthusiasm and eagerly took their prizes,” said Srivastava.
 
 Roshini is a centre for education to help children of economically weaker section after school hours. About 40-45 children learn skill sets in basic education, drawing and language etc. at the centre which aims to promote literacy and education among deprived children and educate them on the importance of health, hygiene and civic sense so as to bring them to the mainstream of society.
 
 While SEFI was represented by Rashid Khan, Ahmed and Nakul, Leo club had members Shivani Pandey,   and Dr Nimesh Kumar present on the occasion.
 
 Noida Leo Club is a part of Lions Clubs International.
 
