NOIDA: It's that time of the year when   raises   demanding quarterly cleaning of nalas and drains, waste disposal and management, need for increased fogging, encroachment evictions, stray dog menace, maintenance of green belts and DND flyway and more. For this, the RWA federation has sought time with CEO Deepak Agarwal and newly elected MLA Pankaj Singh jointly sometime next week.

 According to RWA federation, an earlier meeting with CEO Deepak Agarwal held on Feb 22 last month at his office was instrumental in addressing these issues with actions planned on the same. However, despite a month since that meeting, federation members claim many issues still remain unaddressed or not mentioned in the minutes of that meeting.
 
 These include work relating to sterilization of stray dogs to be handled by Noida authority in place of SPCA as per decision of the meeting with district magistrate Nagendra Prasad Singh on Feb 2. "The work on dog sterilisation needs to be pursued on priority basis because of the alarming problem," said A N Dhawan, secretary general Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA). 
 
 Further, FONRWA members pleaded that since Noida is a notified township, appropriate civic bye-laws need to be framed whereby timely eviction of encroachments should be given priority. "We reiterate that apart from encroachments on vacant plots, far more serious encroachments on the roads need to be addressed urgently," said Dhawan.
 
 On cleaning of nalas and storm water drains, RWA umbrella body maintained that they be cleaned on quarterly basis, instead of existing annual practice with directions to clean large nalas before the onset of monsoon.
 
 As regards disposal and treatment of municipal waste, the federation maintained that segregation of waste and collection of segregated solid waste from all households have not yet been indicated. 
 
 Apart from this, the   demanded prior communication of a schedule on fogging in residential sectors, PE (Health) to provide details of safai karamcharis to RWAs and to allow RWAs to maintain parks/green belts of their sectors at half the amount sanctioned by authority from that of Horticulture department and maintenance of DND flyway. 
 
