COIMBATORE: Unhappy with the lack of trains and also timing of the recently-introduced train on Podanur-Pollachi track, members of   and a few consumer clubs on Tuesday staged a protest by lining up as many as five   in front of Podanur Junction. They said in the absence of trains, bullock carts could use the newly-opened broad gauge track.

 The farmers pointed out that at least seven trains, including three express trains, used to run on the route before it was closed for gauge conversion work nine years ago. “There was a train at 6am. Many farmers used to take vegetables to Coimbatore from the Oddanchathiram Vegetable Market in Dindigul every morning and return in the 6pm train after the sales,” said the treasurer of the farmers’ association,  .
 
 “Many farmers from Pollachi and Kinathukidavu also used to take the 6am train to Coimbatore to sell their produce. It was more comfortable for them to carry large quantities of vegetables in train rather than in bus,” he said.
 
 Though the railways introduced a train to Pollachi on the route on Saturday, the service is limited to just one trip from Coimbatore. The train departs Coimbatore at 1.35pm and reaches Pollachi at 2.45pm. It then leaves Pollachi at 3.05pm and reaches Coimbatore at 4.15pm.
 
 “Blame it on the time schedule, the train won’t benefit students, professionals, farmers or devotees to Palani,” said the farmers’ association secretary, A Kandasamy.
 
 The protesters also expressed concerns over the safety of the track, which was laid by cutting large rocks and boulders, in the Myleripalayam stretch. “The rocks have developed cracks and there are large stones on both the sides. They may fall on the train due to the vibration while it passes through the stretch or during heavy winds and rain,” said Kandasamy. “There is also a stone quarry less than 100m away. Use of crushes there may also destabilise the rocks,” he added.
 
 Railways officials, meanwhile, said the train was introduced in afternoon as a stop gap arrangement before the railways board gives them a separate rake and coaches, and sanctions new timings. “It is likely to take around six months for the board to allot a separate train for this route. Once the train is allotted, we will revise the timings and also the service frequency,” said a Salem division official.
 
 Regarding the track safety, a senior construction engineer attached to the Salem division, told TOI that they “were planning to set up wire nets on both the sides of the track to protect it from any stone, boulder or rock pieces falling on it”.
 
 
