In less than three years, the man behind DJ wale babu has become the soul of every party. From Saturday Saturday to Baby ko bass pasand hai -nightclubs, weddings and bachelor parties across the country have been buzzing with his countless hits. And   truly lived up to his name when he performed to a full house at a city five-star hotel on Friday evening. As we caught up with Bollywood's favourite rapper post his high-voltage performance, which went on for over 90 minutes, he expressed his desire to work with `Bollywood's Badshah' and `Akshay paaji', spoke about his differences with   and experience of judging a reality show along with  , among other things. Besides, the new dad also explained why trips to home have increased lately

 
 
 
 
 Life hasn't changed much but yes trips to home have increased and I feel I've become more responsible.
 
 
 
 Whenever I get a chance to do anything for the baby , I do it. Be it sitting by her side or changing nappies. But as of now, she is closer to her mother and I think it will take her some time to understand my presence around her.
 
 
 
 When she came to the house for the first time, everyone told me that she looks like me. Her nose, lips, eyes -everything has a resemblance to me.
 
 
 
 This is my first-ever reality show and I'm totally enjoying it. With a brilliant panel of judges, (Karan Johar, Shekhar Ravjiani, Shalmali Kholgade) who are also very fun loving, we have a blast on the sets.
 
 
 
 The experience with KJo is mindblowing. He is spontaneous and 10 times more humorous than what we see on television. The best part is each of his jokes ends up making a lot of sense. This is sheer brilliance than just humour. If he doesn't like you he would say that on your face -that's what makes him Karan Johar.
 
 
 
 
 No. I think everything has a time and this is my time. I have met so many people on the show and a lot of them are already working with many of us. That's what I call `timing'.
 
 
 
 I had my share of struggle in life, which I enjoyed. My mother always had faith in me, even though initially my parents weren't supportive enough. So, I often get a flashback but all the memories are sweet and I cherish them.
 
 
 
 Everyone wants a hit. People invest huge amount of money and I think it's my job to give them what they want, while staying true to my art. I have a fear to get stereotyped as someone who recreates. But that's okay , I am sure I will soon prove all of them all wrong and will reveal other aspects of my art in my upcoming album.
 
 
 
 My equation with Karan Johar's production house has been very special. I have given them some back to back hits like Kar gayi chull, Kala chashma, The breakup song and The humma song. So, by now even they've got this faith and belief in my work and respect my way of creation and mixing.
 
 
 
 
 I think the difference between his behaviour and mine shows how different the upbringing is. I have been raised in such a way that I cannot badmouth others. I know he is my senior and I show all my respect towards him. But whatever bad he says about me shows how he has been raised.
 
 
 
 Raftaar is quite close to me and my family , probably, because we experienced simi lar circumstances when we started our careers. He is like a brother. We had actually asked him not to upload the baby's Ab toh picture online but he was like ` ho gaya bhai upload'.
 
 Raftaar is also doing amazing.Dhaakad song is something that I always wanted to do but I am really happy that he has done it. I hold him very high not only as an artiste but also a human being.
 
 
 
 I am really sorry for that but that is the way I am. I totally understand the term female fan following from a star's perspective, but people who love you, will continue loving you no matter what. Since I feel I'm not pho togenic enough, I post pictures of my wife and family . I cannot deny that whatever I am today it's all because of my fans and I value them more than my love.
 
 
 
 Meri biwi ko meri aukaat pata hai and she has complete faith in me. She does get insecure at times but that is healthy . What is love without jealousy? And that is why we put in more effort and keep the relationship fresh and going.
 
 
 
 I want to do bigger performances here and in front of huge crowds. The beauty about Kolkatans is, if they really like you, they will love you khul ke, doesn't matter who you are, where have you come from.
 
 
 
 I would like to become an actor myself (laughs). Jokes apart, I want to work for the Bollywood's Badshah, Shah Rukh sir and, of course, for Akshay paaji. He ( ) and I keep meeting, discuss songs and work, so we hope to collaborate really soon.
 
 
 
 Tamma tamma has released on Saturday and again it's Alia and Varun with whom I had my first hit, Saturday Saturday. I'm also in talks with other directors for entire albums and not just the mixing or rapping part. I'm planning some romantic and sad songs too. And I am doing the music for   and Jacqueline Fernandez's upcoming film, Reload.
 
 
