NEW DELHI: China witnessed a 116% spike in lipstick sales this year during the important shopping season of the Spring Festival,   reported.

 This beat last year's already whopping 92 percent growth from last year.
 
 "An overwhelming 56 percent of the buyers were born in the 1990s, followed by 30 percent born in the 1980s, and the top three provinces making the purchases are Guangdong, Zhejiang and Jiangsu", China Daily said citing a report by Aliyun, DTCJ and CBNData.
 
 This could signify what many economists call ' .' The phrase refers to a phenomenon where in the face of slowing growth and even a recession, people cut back on luxury items but increase the purchase of smaller items - like lipsticks - whose sales actually go up during a downturn.
 
 "Certain affordable treats, wine, chocolate, cheaper cosmetics, underwear - these sorts of items tend to do well during periods where overall spending is under pressure," said Jon Copestake, chief retail and consumer goods analyst at the  , to the South China Morning Post last year.
 
 In fact, even make-up and cosmetic sales in general see a rise with 'the lipstick effect' and that's happening in China, too.
 
 "Chinese men also have started paying more attention to their appearance, especially those from   province, who top the male buyers for makeup," the Chinese newspaper said.
 
 In fact, a column in Forbes two days ago said that Chinese consumption grew in absolute terms in 2016 but fell as a percentage of gross domestic product.
 
 "Last year, government expenditures, not consumer spending, were the driver of growth. The prospects for a consumption-led economy are now not particularly bright," wrote a columnist for Forbes.
 
 Given that smog in many Chinese cities rivals that of Delhi's, it came as no surprise that the sale of air cleaners also exploded this year, with a year-on-year growth of 256 percent. Not surprisingly, Beijing saw the highest rise in air cleaner purchases, four times that of Sichuan, which came in second.
 
 'Smart' products in general, like smart watches, smart cameras, smart wristbands and even virtual reality helmets and glasses, are being bought by rural families, as their sales increased by 30 percent in such areas, China Daily said.
 
 
 
 
