SALEM: Two employees of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) were electrocuted while conducting maintenance work at the   on Saturday.

 The deceased were identified as K Balakrishnan, 45, of Ambedkar Colony in Adhikaripatti and M Murugan, 40, of   near Udaiyapatti. They were among a group of seven engaged in maintenance work, sources said. “A power shutdown was put in place at the Udaiyapatti   from 9am to 4pm for the work. A total of seven people, including the duo, were engaged in maintenance at the   Industrial Estate. Balakrishnan and Murugan climbed atop a transformer while the others, including foremen Muthusamy, Saravanan and, wiremen Ramasamy, Selvaraj and Chandrasekar were standing beneath it. After suffering electric shock, Balakrishnan and Murugan were dangling from the transformer. The co-workers stopped a truck, climbed on it and retrieved the duo,” a Tangedco official said,
 
 Though they were rushed to a private hospital in Ammapet, doctors declared them as brought dead. The bodies were later taken to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for post-mortem.
 
 “Balakrishnan and Murugan were trying to fix an earth rod on the transformer. They had disconnected power to the area for conducting the work. However, they suffered electric shock when they attempted to connect the earth rod on the wire,” the official added.
 
 Balakrishnan was a maintenance staff at Tangedco while Murugan was a helper. Both were working with Tangedco for more than 20 years. Balakrishnan was given a permanent post in Tangedco seven years ago and Murugan was working on contract.
 
 Meanwhile, Ammapet police launched an investigation on a complaint filed by Tangedco officials. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accident happened due to power feedback from an unit at the industrial estate. “Somebody had turned on a generator without turning off the main switch. As a result, power returned to the transformer,” a police officer told TOI. Police are trying to identify the unit.
 
 Balakrishnan is survived by his wife Rajeshwari, son Dheenadhayalan, an Electrical and Electronic Engineering (E.E.E.) graduate and daughter Lavanya, a third year E.E.E. student. Murugan is survived by his wife Kavitha, daughter Devika and son Gokul.
 
 
