Pune: The break-up between the BJP and   has come as a big relief to the ruling NCP leader Ajit Pawar, strengthening his position on taking a call on secret pre-poll alliance with either of the parties to defeat the other.

 Two days after the Shiv Sena executive chief,  , announced to snap ties with the alliance partner, city BJP leaders are putting their heads together to bewilder Sena with help of the NCP.
 
 The BJP and Sena share a common vote bank in mid-city pockets of Pune. The BJP leaders are keen to maintain their strongholds and keep Sena at bay with help of the NCP.
 
 Senior BJP leaders admitted that the party might look for ‘seat adjustments’ with the NCP in the mid-city area and try to work out a formula where NCP eats into the Shiv Sena’s votes. In return, the BJP can help the NCP in outer parts of the city by fielding weak candidates, where the NCP has chances of winning. Senior BJP leaders stressed the party was more keen to defeat the Sena than locking horns with the NCP.
 
 “We want to make it a fight between the NCP and the BJP and keep Shiv Sena out of the contest. The Sena and BJP share same vote base. Hence, Sena is our first target. The NCP was never strong in mid-city areas and so that party has nothing to lose there. In this case, we can look for some secret seat adjustments,” admitted a BJP insider.
 
 One of the NCP leaders did not rule out a ‘new Pune pattern’ after the  , wherein the NCP and BJP might join hands to keep the Congress and Sena out of power. The first ‘Pune Pattern’ was created in 2007 when the NCP had tied up with the   to form a ruling alliance in the civic body to keep Congress away from the power. After two-and-a-half years, the alliance fell apart just before the Assembly elections in 2009.
 
 The city Congress leaders are confused with new political developments. A major chunk of the city Congress leaders does not want an alliance with the NCP, but the party’s city unit chief, Ramesh Bagwe, is keen to join hands with Pawar’s party.
 
 Politicians are not ready to spell their stand in the open, though. The BJP’s city unit chief,  , said his party would not need any support in any form from any party and would come to power on its own.
 
 NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade said the party chief   had made it clear that the NCP would not have any pre- or post-electoral arrangement with the BJP or Shiv Sena.
 
