Lucknow: High court’s order for effective measures against vector-borne diseases last year nothwithstanding, LMC is not even lifting   from its   in many localities on a regular basis. The filth rotting after monsoon rains has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes.

 In a reality check, TOI found that trash in huge quantities is lying at most of the dumping grounds. Ideally, dumping grounds are meant to be spots where garbage from all nearby areas is collected and then taken away by lifting vehicles on a daily basis to the solid waste management plant.
 
 Instead,   said, garbage lifting vehicles come once in several days to take away the trash. As a result, trash continues to pile up on these dumping grounds. “Being treated more than collection spots, these dumping grounds are a source of diseases. Rotting trash, once its wet because of rains, emits an unbearable stench. Water accummulation also leads to mosquito breeding. My house is close to a dumping ground and we cannot open windows and doors in the evenings,” said Manisha Yadav, a resident of Thakurganj.
 
 Residents in most of the areas complained that lifting vehicles do not come for days. “While garbage gets collected at the dumping ground in Lawrence Terrace everyday, lifting vehicles don’t come that often. As a result, so much garbage is accumulated after a few days that it starts spilling onto the road and then strays scatter it all the more,” said Ambika Gupta, a resident of the area. On Hardoi Road alone, starting from Koneshwar intersection to Balaganj Chauraha, there are four dumping grounds on the main road that are constantly filled with garbage. 
 
 The situation is no different even near LMC’s own building in Lalbagh. The dumping ground on the main road near Janpath market is filled with trash on most days. Suresh Agarwal, a shopkeeper next to the dumping ground, said, “The lifting vehicle comes once a week. On the rest of the days, this place is a mess. Collecting trash from places and dumping it on the road is anyway not an effective way to handle it.” Rakesh Agarwal, the managing director of Ecogreen, the agency managing solid waste in the city, said, “We try to clean all the dumping grounds once a day but our actual target is to remove all open dumps from the city. Portable compactors have been installed at several places and they are planned for 30 more spots so within two months, all the open dumps will be removed from the roadsides.”
 
 
