Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday said it has not yet given a clean chit to other officials of   in the Rs 1,300-crore loan default case. The   was opposing a bail plea by nine accused in the case — five retired IDBI Bank officials and four   (KFA) executives — whose judicial custody a special court extended till February 20.

 CBI prosecutor Bharat Badami said the   granted in October and November 2009 followed a meeting between  , founder of the defunct KFA, which received the loan, and bank’s former chairman   who approved it at “rocket speed”, flouting norms and against the bank’s interest, “with no security”. “Agarwal violated rules to sanction the loan of Rs 750 crore hastily,” said Badami. He read out witness statements to show that “KFA was not entitled to a rupee” as its ratings did not merit it. “What happened on the intervening night of the meeting was a conspiracy between Mallya and Agarwal, a public servant…The company (KFA) had come to losses of thousands of crores, yet the bank sanctions huge loans… Mallya is no ordinary man,” said Badami.
 
 He pointed out how the “application was made in the morning and approved the same evening…IDBI officers virtually complied with what Mallya wanted. They bowed before him. A common man has to visit a bank at least a dozen times when he applies for a loan with genuine documents.”
 
 Badami said, “Further probe is in progress, even against charge-sheeted accused and release on bail would result in influencing of witness, one of whom still works with the bank.”
 
 The CBI had on January 23 arrested nine accused and submitted a chargesheet, which said that Mallya diverted part of the loan for his “personal” use. They arrested accused ex-IDBI Bank chairman Yogesh Agarwal, the bank’s ex-deputy managing directors O V Bundellu and B K Batra, two other former officials, S K V Srinivasan and R S Sridhar, apart from the airline’s CFO A Raghunathan and executives, Shailesh Borkar, A C Shah and Amit Nadkarni. All of them were produced before the CBI court judge H S Mahajan as their initial custody was till Tuesday.
 
 Badami said Batra, former deputy MD of IDBI Bank, a public servant, had 58 bank accounts. “Batra was not an ordinary man. He was a public servant. We still have to probe his accounts whether they were in his name or that of his family or benami and the need for so many accounts,” said Badami. He also said that the loan amounts were “diverted internally to be parked later abroad in the UK and Mauritius where LRs have been issued.” He also pointed out a list of bank officials who travelled on Mallya’s personal jet.
 
 Badami cited Supreme Court judgments to say that economic offences were a “grave offence” which affected the national interest and had cautioned against grant of bail in such cases. 
 
 But rebutting the CBI submissions, Amit Desai counsel for the accused KFA employees, said the case at hand was different since the chargesheet itself does not make out a case of any personal gratification by any accused. Desai said that the SC had said, “If chargesheet is filed, then balance is in favour of accused in such cases of economic offence.” Desai also said, “What the CBI is essentially doing is putting the banking industry on trial here.” He said the accused were “ordinary people” and “junior level officers” whose continued custody was not required in the case. 
 
 The chargesheet said “Rs 263 crore was diverted by KFA for purposes other than those for which loans were sanctioned” including lease rentals, engineering expenses, airport authorities and ground handling. Desai said they were used to pay staff salaries, tax deducted at source, IDBI loan interest and service fee, other banks’ loan instalments, which are “critical needs’’ and “cannot be considered to involve any criminality”. “The money did not go into the pockets of any of the accused. Can contractual obligation involve criminality?” he asked. The judge said he would hear rebuttal of advocates Aabad Ponda counsel for Batra and other defence lawyers briefly on Wednesday.
 
 
