MUMBAI: A sessions court on Tuesday convicted a 44-year-old man for the double murder of his wife and a colleague who attempted to save her, when he attacked her at their home over suspicions that she was having an affair with another of his co-workers in 2013. The wife,  's (30) suspected paramour   (30), who was also present on the scene, survived with injuries and was the key witness in the trial against accused Shyam Inchal.

 The court will decide the quantum of sentence on Thursday. Inchal was found guilty of murder and voluntarily cau sing hurt. While the maximum sentence is death, the minimum is life imprisonment. Inchal, the murder victim   (40) and eyewitness Ghonge were working in the marketing department of a Wadala-based club. The incident took place on January 7, 2013.
 
 Ghonge told court that in the afternoon that day, he received a call from Inchal asking him why he'd called his wife. Inchal also stated he had not shared her number with any colleague. The accused had allegedly seen Ghonge's missed call on her phone. Inchal then asked Ghonge to come alone to his house at Saki Naka. Suspecting something amiss, Ghonge went there along with Rane.
 
 Inchal met the duo at a bus stop near the house and again enquired with Ghonge about having his wife's number.
 
 Ghonge told him it was Seema who gave him the number. Inchal then asked them to come to his house. Ghonge had been there many ti mes before. He then took Inchal and Rane in his car and reached the house at 6.30pm.
 
 Ghonge stated Seema was serving her children food when they reached. Inchal asked the kids to go out after their meals. Ghonge alleged Inchal then confronted his wife and slapped her. When Rane and he tried to intervene, In chal told them to sit down and took his wife to the kitchen. Ghonge said he initially heard them arguing, but after sometime the victim began to scream. He alleged when Rane and he ran into the kitchen, they saw Inchal stabbing Seema. Ghonge said when they tried to overpower the accused, he stabbed Rane in the stomach and chest. He alleged that as Rane and Seema collapsed, Ghonge tried to reason with Inchal. But he too was assaulted. It was only after his pleading that Inchal calmed down and opened the door.
 
 Ghonge said he ran to the police station and informed the cops. While he rushed to the hospital, Inchal was arrested.Inchal's defence denied the incident.
 
