NAVI MUMBAI:   Paresh Nakhwa (37) was booked for rash and negligent driving causing injury to a biker on March 1, when he has actually been away in Sweden for three months for a course.

 Paresh landed in trouble as his Mahindra XUV 500 was driven by a youth, employed to wash vehicles in his housing society. Pawan, in his mid-20s, who hails from Bihar and resides in the Gaothan area in Sector 5, Sanpada, washed vehicles parked in the housing society and those parked on the road.
 
 Paresh’s brother, Moreshwar, who resides in Uran said, “As per daily routine, on March 1, my father gave the vehicle keys to the youth at 9.30am; he returned them at 11.30am. The next day, Nerul police came to our house and told us that a biker was injured in an accident involving my brother’s vehicle near Agri Koli Bhavan junction on Palm Beach Road. It was found that the mishap occurred when the youth had taken the key for washing the vehicle. Since he is absconding, police have told us to trace him and produce him to prove that he was the culprit.”
 
 Moreshwar said, “My brother will return from Sweden on March 18 and he will then have to give his statement to the police. It is really surprising that the police has not made any effort to trace the youth, even after providing his photograph, despite knowing that my brother is abroad for three months and the youth is the culprit.”
 
 Moreshwar added, “The biker who sustained minor injuries is reportedly an office-bearer of a political party from Chembur. Hence, it seems police are taking prompt action under political pressure, without verifying the facts. Police have been claiming that we are responsible for the offence as we handed over the vehicle keys to the youth.”
 
 Senior inspector Ashok Rajput said, “If family members of the accused owner claim that someone else was driving the vehicle when the accident occurred, we will have to verify their claim. Prima facie, as the injured biker did not see the driver who sped away from the spot, technically, we registered an FIR against the owner of the vehicle, whose registration number was provided by the complainant.”
 
