NAGPUR: In what could be termed as a big setback to  , automobile giant   which is opening its first ever engineering college in Wardha, wouldn’t be seeking affiliation from it. Instead, it would be seeking affiliation from the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technical University (BATU), based in Lonere in Raigad district. 

 To be named as Bajaj Institute of Technology (BIT), the institute would commence admissions from this academic session, after getting clearance from AICTE, which is expected by April end. Shiksha Mandal, the NGO under which Bajaj Group runs its education institutions in the region, had already applied to   (DTE) to include BIT’s name in the centralized admission process (CAP).
 
 “We want our college to be the best and at par with top ones in country. For that, we need to have best of the curriculum which fulfils today’s industries’ needs. We came to the opinion that BATU, which is established with special purpose for enhancing quality of engineering education and research, is best suited to our aspirations,” said Sanjay  , president of Shiksha Mandal.
 
 The mandal currently runs seven colleges in Wardha and Nagpur, of which six are government aided. The group’s colleges are known for providing quality education at affordable cost with over 10,000 students and 250 teachers on rolls. TOI, on April 9, 2010, had first reported about automobile bellwether’s plans to open such a college in Vidarbha, quoting Bhargava.
 
 Bhargava told TOI that soon the government would be announcing its plans to start single engineering university on the lines of Maharashtra University of Health Science (MUHS) in  , to which all colleges offering health science courses were affiliated. “The government has already announced BATU’s name and all colleges would need to be attached with it. Therefore, we decided to take its affiliation now, so that we wouldn’t face troubles in future,” he said, adding that fees would be kept affordable for the students, keeping in view group’s philosophy.
 
 BIT would offer 240 seats across four branches — Mechanical, civil, electrical and electronics. “It would be coming up at a land adjacent to the GS College on Arvi Road in Wardha. Against requirement of just 10 acres, we’ve provided 31 acres for the colleges, considering the future expansion plans. Even our main administrative building is almost ready. We’ve received over 500 applications for the teachers’ posts, which we’ve kept on hold till we get apex body’s approval,” Bhargava said. 
 
 Interestingly, all of group’s colleges are affiliated to NU, three among them — two GS colleges and JB Science — have already applied for autonomy. The JB Science and GS colleges in Wardha have figured among top 150 institutions of the country in recently released rankings of ‘National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)’ issued by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD).
 
