NEW DELHI: Soon after Yogi Aditynath was chosen the Uttar Pradesh CM, Congress member Veerappa Moily called it the “biggest assault“ on secularism, a remark promptly dismissed by  , which said the MP stood for development, “as reflected in his election to the Lok Sabha five times".

 “Maybe, BJP or RSS would like to endorse their cause of Hinduism. India is not Hinduism. Hinduism is not India... Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) is the very foundation of our secular society," Moily said. 
 
 Congress' official reaction though was a bit cautious with party spokesman Randeep Surjewala saying, “Congress will continue to act as watchdog of people's interests and play a constructive role in progress of UP." Maintaining that the prerogative of choosing a CM rested with the ruling party, he said, “The excessive delay in arriving at a decision as also the compulsion to create two posts of deputy CMs reflects a bitter conflict to share spoils of power despite overwhelming majority of over 300 MLAs."
 
 BJP stood firmly behind the Yogi. Party spokesman Siddharth Nath Singh said, “That image (of a saffron icon) may be with media but he has been elected again and again. He stands for development and that is the agenda we have got.“
 
 Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, the lone Muslim minister in the Modi government, defended the choice, saying Adityanath would work for the party's agenda of “inclusive growth“.
 
  MP   reacted cautiously to Adityanath's elevation. “We will wait and watch for six months.“
 
 “We hope he will change his thinking and desist from creating a divide between Hindus and Muslims. If he does, we will go among the people and oppose him,“ he said.
 
 CPM's Brinda Karat termed Adityanath's election a part of “RSS agenda“. She said, “It is clearly the RSS agenda and UP is the new experimental field for it. Since it is the victory of RSS (in UP elections), it has chosen the CM.This gentleman has a criminal record.Several charges like rioting and more serious offences exist against him in various courts in UP ... Then why this rhetoric of ending criminalisation?“ National Conference member  , tweeted, “Can spokespersons of BJP now put to rest their oft repeated assertion that RSS is only a social organisation?“ JD(U) spokesperson Harivansh said Yogi was “the natural choice and fit into the politics that BJP follows“.
 
