VISAKHAPATNAM: Hypertension during   is the main cause of maternal deaths in the state, followed by anaemia, revealed data collected by the King George Hospital ( ) from various government hospitals across  .

 About 30% deaths assessed till June this year could be traced to hypertension during pregnancy and other associated complications. A maternal and infant lifeline centre began operating from the gynaecology department of KGH since December last year to assess the cause of  . The centre has since January been collecting the case sheets related to deaths from almost all the government hospitals including district and area hospitals.
 
 Dr T  , professor of Gynaecology at KGH, said, “Maternal and infant mortality have been a cause of concern in the state as well as in the country. We opened the centre as wanted to delve into the cause of deaths of pregnant women.”
 
 Once the centre receives the daily case sheet of dead patients from various hospitals, it analyses them within 48 hours and sends the report to the state health directorate.
 
 “Since most of the critical cases from rural areas are admitted to government hospitals, majority of the case sheets are from state-run hospitals,” Padmavathi said.
 
 Pregnant women with hypertension are more prone to obesity, diabetes, cardiac arrest, convulsions, haemorrhage and renal failure. More such complications arise during the last trimester. Anaemia is another cause killing many women, be it in rural or urban areas. When anaemia is coupled with diabetes, hypertension, jaundice, heart disease, then chances of mortality during pregnancy escalates.
 
 Apart from these two reasons, post-partum haemorrhage and multi-parity (mothers who have borne more number of children), especially in tribal women, are causes of death. The size of the fetus increases with repetitive pregnancies. Ruptures and bleeding in the abdomen are common in such cases. They become more complex as the women usually stay in remote villages from where getting transport on time is almost impossible. Therefore, they are brought to the government hospitals often at the ninth hour, the doctor said.
 
 The gynaecologist suggests training of ANMs so that they screen pregnant women for diabetes and hypertension every month and take precautions to control anaemia with iron tablets and nutritious diet.
 
 
