Step into most pubs or restobars and you can see   kids having a good time over a drink. Though the legal age for consuming liquor in Bengaluru is 21, many high school-going children are often spotted frequenting such places. BT did a random check on some pubs to find out whether kids were asked for IDs or if they were refused liquor for being underage. Here’s what we found...

 
 
 We chose pubs that are frequented by high school and college-goers. Our team of two, consisting of a teenager, visited the following places:
 
 
 
 Termed as one of the most happening pubs among college-goers, we visited this pub on a weekday. Though the establishment had a notice stating ‘Liquor won’t be served to guests below 21 years of age’, we were not asked for any ID. Once seated, we ordered a cocktail. Again, we weren’t asked for any ID and consuming alcohol here seemed no problem, irrespective of age, as we noticed several underage kids being served liquor
 
 
 
 We visited another popular pub on Day 2. Once again, we were not asked to show an ID, nor did we have any problem ordering liquor, in spite of the same notice holding good here as well. On striking a conversation with fellow patrons, we realized that some of them were as young as high-schoolers and yet were seen chugging down beer
 
 
 
 Though this place had a mix of working professionals as well as college-goers, it wasn’t hard to spot underage kids here again. Meanwhile, we ordered for a cocktail and, as usual, no one asked us for our ID or what our age was
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Once we realized that these pubs do indeed serve liquor to underage kids, we contacted the above mentioned establishments for their side of the story. A representative from Pub No 1, who didn’t wish to be named, said that they always checked the IDs of all their patrons. “We always check for the IDs. If children below the permissible age do try and enter and order for drinks, we don’t entertain them and ask them to leave,” he said. When informed that Team BT had done random checks and had in fact managed to order alcohol without IDs, he said, “Sometimes we miss and are unable to check for identification.” When informed that we also found school-goers   liquor in their establishment, the representative maintained that it was impossible.
 
 We noticed that one’s looks had a huge part to play. Representative of Pub No 3 said, “We have a board outside that says liquor won’t be served to children below 21 years of age but to be honest we don’t check everybody’s ID card. However, if someone looks really young, then we do ask for their IDs.” Stating that they have a strict ‘no liquor for minors’ policy, he said that even if an adult, who has been accompanied by a minor, orders for a drink it will be served only to the adult.
 
 Though these places are visited by several underage kids, pubs maintain that they serve them only juices and mocktails and no liquor, which was contrary to what we found. “When any underage children come to our pub, we serve them only juices and food. If they order for liquor, we refuse,” said a representative of Pub No 1. On being asked why don’t they check for IDs, he said, “We always check for IDs, whether it is a weekend or a weekday.” On stressing that we had not been asked for any ID, he said, “To be honest, sometimes students also fake their IDs. In such a case, we won’t know.”
  
 
 
 We spoke to students between 14-20 years of age, who often visited pubs, to get their perspective. Most of them said that they go in groups and that makes it easier for them to enter such places. “No one practically asks for IDs, especially if you go in a group. Once inside, we ask our friends, who are older to us, to order for drinks,” said 18-year-old Suraj (name changed). “My friends, who are 14-year-olds also visit pubs with their mates and enjoy drinks,” says a 14-year-old, adding that now her friends have stopped drinking hard liquor and opt mostly for cocktails.
 
 
  
 But what about their parents, we ask. “My   know that I drink, so it’s okay for me to have a drink outside with my friends,” says Suraj. “I don’t specifically tell my parents when I drink but they know that I do and they’re fine with it,” says 20-year-old Sneha (name change). “I’ve never been refused entry or alcohol because of my age. The only places, that I’ve heard ask for IDs, are those that organize the late evening parties,” she adds.
 
 Does peer pressure come into picture? “In a way, yes. Since all my friends drank and I hung out with them, it was natural for me to drink as well", says 18-year-old Payal (name changed). “I started drinking when I was in my 10th grade. I began because my friends drank and it used to be ‘cool’. I hung out with people who would drink and so I took to drinking, but it wasn’t forced,” adds Sneha.
 
 
 
 “According to the Excise Act, liquor is not supposed to be served to people below 21 years of age,” said an official from the Excise Department, who wishes to remain anonymous. When he was informed that there were pubs that were serving liquor to underage patrons, the official simply said that they are not supposed to. When asked what efforts were undertaken by the   to curb underage alcohol consumption, he said, “Whenever we have received any complaints, we check and book the concerned people.”
 
 — Sanjana Sindhe
 
 
