PUNE: With 800 universities and just three   (IUC), Union minister of human resource and development   said there was a need to establish more such centres.

 "At present, we have 800 universities in the country whereas only three IUCs in material science, astrophysics and high energy have been established so far. IUC is the real treasure and we require more of them. We are growing, but all universities may not have all the good facilities. I have seen at   (IISc) that in their nano centre, people from over 64 universities come to study and research for six months or so. This is the goal of IUC and we are happy that IISc is able to achieve it," he added.
 
 Javadekar was speaking at   organised by   (UGC) at Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) on Sunday. UGC chairman Virander Singh Chauhan was also be present.
 
 The Shodh Shiksha Sameeksha programme highlighted the central role played by the IUCs, set up by the UGC, in enhancing research and teaching at Indian varsities in their corresponding fields of study.
 
 The event on Sunday started with eminent astrophysicist, founder and ex-director of IUCAA Jayant Narlikar, made a brief presentation on the inception of the IUC.
 
 The meeting highlighted IUCs and the consortium and their activities supporting and strengthening education and research in Indian universities to the present and potential future users from the university sector.
 
 Chauhan, in his address, announced the setting up of the latest IUC sometime in September. This centre at Banaras Hindu University will cater to teachers’ training.
 
 “While state and central universities are functioning, the role of private universities must also be identified clearly. If a roadmap is provided, there can be faster churning out of ideas and innovations,” Chauhan added.
 
 Swayam reaches 2.3 lakh students with courses
 
 Javadekar said the government has reached out to over 2.30 lakh students in the one and half months since the launch of Swayam. 
 
 Over 400 online and offline courses are part of the Swayam platform. Javadekar said the registrations were a big development for the country. Teachers are now given training through this platform, he added.
 
 Swayam is an indigenous information technology platform that facilitates hosting of all the courses taught in classrooms from standard IX till post-graduation to be accessed by anyone, anywhere at any time.
 
