NAGPUR: Land grab victims of corporator   were left baffled by the behaviour of the police who failed to note down their complaint and, instead, went by his assurances to “sort out the matter” by May 9. Gwalbanshi excused himself saying he is busy due to a wedding in his family.

 Gwalbanshi, who had grabbed the land located at Khwaja Garib Nawaz (KGN) in Borgaon, made the assurance in the presence of assistant commissioner of police   at the latter’s office on Tuesday. The corporator did not respond to TOI’s calls or text messages.
 
 “All the parties brought documents. There was confusion as the ownership was being claimed over the same plots but which had different numbers. Hence, I have given Gwalbanshi some time so that he can verify it from Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) office,” Waghchoure told TOI. 
 
 Strangely, the ACP he did not the communicate this to the aggrieved parties who were also upset that he had brought them face to face with Gwalbanshi. 
 
 “A couple of days back Waghchoure asked us to bring the plot papers and come to KGN Society, assuring us that we would get our land back,” said one of the victims. 
 
 The ACP did not turn up but someone asked the victims to come   There they were surprised to meet Gwalbanshi who was trying to convince other similar complainants to “settle the matter out of court”. 
 
 “Waghchoure didn’t even go through my papers and, shockingly, asked us to discuss the issue with Gwalbanshi in his office,” said Tarun Kumar Bose who has two plots in KGN both of which have been allegedly grabbed by the corporator. As it is a  , he is fighting the case in the court since the last four years.
 
 Bose got no assurance that he would get his land back even though “I produced the original documents”. “Why wait till May 9 when we have all the documents,” he asked. 
 
 Bose has now written to the chief minister and commissioner of police for justice. He has also expressed doubts over the unclear directives and uncertainty regarding the special investigation team (SIT) looking into complaints against the Gwalbanshi family.
 
 Anita Bansod, another victim at KGN, had constructed the foundation on her plot after buying it in 2001. But, in 2004, Gwalbanshi laid his claim on the plot. He dumped some construction material and laid barbed wire around the land. 
 
 “My husband Sanjay approached Nitish while he was campaigning for the recent civic elections and asked him to return the plot but he abused him and asked not to discuss the issue publicly, asking him to come to his house,” said Bansod. When Sanjay went to his house, he was thrown out by Gwalbanshi’s father Gangaprasad. 
 
 The victims are afraid of Gwalbanshi who they feel may use political influence to not return their plots.
 
