CHENNAI: All vaccines under the   will be made mandatory for   in   from the next  ,   said.

 All private and public schools will have to submit annual vaccine records to the directorate of public health.“We will ask school heads to ensure students are vaccinated. Children who have not taken vaccines will be asked to quit since they can be dangerous to other children. Our aim is to ensure universal coverage,“ he said.
 
 The government will use provisions of the Madras Public Health, Act, 1939, to make vaccination mandatory , offici als said. Students' vaccination records will be a part of the annual inspection programme where food and water safety, ventilation, and toilets are checked. A dedicated team of 770 doctors and an equal number of nurses also work for the programme.“These doctors will vaccinate children who have missed the schedule,“ said director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy .
 
 The state will now include measles-rubella vaccine in the routine immunisation schedule. In February , the government mulled making measles-rubella vaccine mandatory for children below 15 years when parents offered resistance. However, with support from doctors' bodies, school education department and parent-teachers associations, more than 1.6 crore children were vaccinated. The state will now include measles-rubella vaccine in the routine immunisation schedule.
 
 Since 2008, there has been a dip in the number of children taking vaccines in the state. In April that year, three children died after getting measles vaccine and the health department stopped vaccination at their doorstep and said it would be done only in PHCs or hospitals in the presence of a doctor. By 2010, the policy was reversed and health nurses were asked to administer the vaccine in the villages. Yet, almost every survey has shown a drop in the number of children vaccinated.Three years ago, TN was embarrassed when a district level health survey of the Centre showed the number of children who got full vaccination dipped from 81.8% in 2007-08 to 56.2% in 2012-13 and those who did not receive any vaccine rose from 0.1% to 1.8%.
 
 Last year, the National Family Health Survey showed the number of children with full vaccination had climbed to 73.3% in 2015-16. But state health department officials aren't happy . “One of the most important reasons for the dip in vaccinations is the false messages propagated by the anti-vaccine lobby . We have been able to consistently reduce incidence of vaccine preventable illness. If we don't tighten strings now we may face the embarrassment faced by Kerala,“ said Dr Kolandaisamy .
 
