THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The proposal for   (IDO) has fixed the minimum width of roads to be widened in future at 12 metres, a shift from the   -2031, which had put 8m as minimum width. A major network of roads has been proposed at widths ranging between 12 and 18 metres. A total of 34 roads has been proposed to be widened at 12m, which mainly touches upon inner roads connecting central wards of the city. Pulimoodu-Vanchiyoor, Enchakkal-Airport junction, Kumarapuram-Murinjapalam, Ambalamukku-Pippinmoodu are a few stretches which have been proposed to be widened in 12m. 

 Unlike the draft master plan-2031, which had envisaged a broader classification of   as inner ring road, first intermediate ring road, second intermediate ring road, outer ring road, radial roads, other connection roads and other roads, the IDO proposal enlists a general set of roads with specific widths. 
 
 It also calls for regulations on either side of roads which have been included in the proposal for widening. As per the proposal, the roads will be widened at equivalent distance on either side from the centre of existing roads. Even while saying this, it further adds that responsible officials shall be free to make changes in the alignment of road.
 
 One major shift from the draft proposal is the absence of road networks that establish connectivity to rural suburb towns lying close to the city. If the draft master plan-2031 proposed a road network connecting city wards to places like Nedumangadu, Malayinkeezhu road, Attingal, Mangattukadavu bridge, the IDO proposal makes slight revisions in the network, mostly restricting connectivity to very few rural towns adjacent to corporation border. Officials said that the list would be added with details garnered from land utilization map. 
 
 The proposal mainly focuses on enhancing connectivity among junctions like Spencer junction, Edapazhanji, Vazhayila. Kachani, model school junction and the like. Roads measuring 16 metres have been proposed connecting junctions to inner roads. 
 
