NAGPUR: CBSE Class XII students seemed happy and relaxed after their   exam on Saturday. None of the questions were out of  . No twists and turns made the paper easier than expected, they said.

 Chemistry lecturer   said, “The question paper was really simple and average students can score easily. Reading the paper vigilantly must have played a vital role in smartly interpreting the paper. Both organic and inorganic portions were solvable.   were a not a tough nut to crack. They required direct application of formulas. The entire paper was on expected lines and based on textbook.”
 
 “Finding the intermediate of reactions, which carried 4 marks, must have causes slight trouble for some. Children have the tendency to exaggerate while writing down answers, so they must have felt that the paper was lengthy,” he added.
 
 Student Netal Marothiya said, “Overall, the paper was very easy. Although the questions were not from the exercise, I was well versed with the textbook. Questions were asked from interior parts of the lessons, so I could crack them. Numericals were slightly tough for me because I don’t like math work.”
 
 She said, “Referring to previous question papers helped me a lot. I was thorough with the paper format and could attempt the questions in the pre-planned way. Most questions were based on the same concepts of previous paper sets. I made it a point to stick to what I’ve learnt already and revise it instead learning something new so as to retain the data in mind.”
 
 Mahek Arora said, “Maximum questions which appeared were the ones on which my teacher had emphasized. I am expecting full marks in numericals as they were a cakewalk. The reasoning questions were the easiest and I was familiar with the whole paper.”
 
 “All the reactions, concepts and formulas were jumbled in my head before the paper which caused nervousness. But when I gave it a first reading, I calmed down. This composed state of mind allowed me to recall and reproduce my answers efficiently,” she added.
 
 Rashi Singh said that she found the paper lengthy but managed to race against time. She said, “I was well acquainted with the questions but satisfactorily writing the answers consumed a lot of time. Many numericals were picked up from previous question sets and their values were changed. The paper didn’t pose many challenges.”
 
 Analysis
 
 Paper toughness: Medium
 
 Questions relevance: Straightforward
 
 Paper length: Proper
 
 
