ÄNAND:   including Gujarat chief minister  , union agriculture minister   and minister of state for agriculture   on Tuesday took digs at Congress vice-president   during a function to confer   organised by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) in milk city Anand.

 Gandhi has started a three-days roadshow in Gujarat from Monday.
 
 In fact, both Rupala and Rupani compared Gandhi and opposition Congress with a bunch of bats – the small, nocturnal flying mammals who cannot appreciate the existence of sun.
 
 "These ‘chamachidiyas’ (bats) don’t even know that there exists a sun which spreads light in the world. My comments have nothing to do with opposition. But since they have not travelled this path (of development), they will not even know the hurdles that one comes across,” he said.
 
 Making a direct reference to Gandhi’s visit to Gujarat, Rupani said that since yesterday the “shehzada” of Congress is questioning the benefits of ‘Digital India’ initiative of   to villages and villagers.
 
 "He is not capable of understanding benefits of such an initiative. It is thanks to such initiatives that just today, in this function we have launched an automatic milk collection system software and a genotyping chip for the benefit of farmers,” he said.
 
 Talking to media persons after the function, Rupani continued his verbal attacks on Gandhi and opposition Congress.
 
 "It is natural that Congress which does not have any poll issue to rake up in Gujarat is doing loose talks. But I want to ask Gandhi why was the work on Narmada dam delayed for seven years. Whose government was being remote-controlled from 10 Janpath? Lakhs of cusecs of water got wasted because the permission for construction of dam was not given on time,” he said.
 
 "You only talked about Jawaharlal Nehru. Why wasn’t Sardar Patel given his due? Why did he face injustice? Why wasn’t he made Prime Minister?” he said.
 
 You are talking about three years of Narendra Modi government, first give us account of ten years of UPA government which was full of scams,” he said. 
 
