Jaipur: Higher the post, more the responsibility. This is how Supreme Court Justice   reacted to a question regarding the recent controversy over the jailing of former Kolkata High Court judge Justice C S Karnan.

 All are equal before law and contempt of court cannot be permitted by a judge, lawyer or common man, he said.
 
 He was speaking at the   here on Friday.
 
 He also called upon the bar council to act against the indiscipline of lawyers and restore the dignity of legal profession. He said a few corrupt lawyers and inaction by the bar council have brought a bad name to the noble legal profession. “The bar council had failed to instill discipline among lawyers,” he said.
 
 Justice Mishra said it was neither good for the legal profession nor the court to initiate contempt proceedings against errant lawyers. The bar council had the onerous duty of throwing out some of the rotten eggs, he said, while calling for overhauling the legal system to deliver speedy justice to people. Otherwise, he warned the rule of law would give way to muscle power.
 
 He has also called upon the bar council to fix an upper limit on fees charged by lawyers. “There should be an upper ceiling on fees charged by lawyers as they charge hefty amounts per appearance these days and in some cases for remaining silent,” he said.
 
 In the age of globalization, the responsibility of the judiciary and legal profession has increased manifold. They should be vigilant as countries could be made colonies in this age without firing a bullet when they enter into bilateral and multilateral agreements without proper legal framework. He said the legal system had to think globally and act locally.
 
 The duty of the lawyer is to help the court arrive at the right decision. Justice Mishra also condemned the practice of the lawyers seeking frequent adjournments. When lawyers sense that things are not going in their favour, they seek adjournments. This is one of the main reasons for the delay in the adjudication of justice, he said. The high courts and Supreme Court are flooded with petty cases as the lawyers have turned into money-making machines.
 
 “The legal system will be effective only if here is a system to protect the honest and expose the corrupt,” he said.
 
 Rajasthan Chief Justice Pradeep Nandrajog also spoke on the occasion.
 
