UDUPI: Zilla panchayat members unanimously asked about action taken to curb the sand mafia in the city at the general body meeting on Wednesday. 

 They condemned the attack on deputy commissioner  , assistant commissioner Shilpa Nag and other government employees during the raid of an illegal sand extraction unit at Kandlur. Janardhan Tonse said, “The district has the revenue, mines and geology and police handle to tackle the sand mafia and all these departments failed. As a result, the DC and team organised the raid on a certain unit at midnight.”
 
 Additional SP Vishnu Vardhan said, “In all, 20 people were arrested in this case and of them, nine are migrant labourers and the rest are locals. The arrested were present on the spot during the attack and five persons were served externment orders. The DC and police are also working on invoking the Anti-Goonda Act against the arrested. The task force is meeting to take action to curb illegal sand mining. Police have formed two teams under DSP Kundapur and Udupi to tackle it. A flying squad has been set up with a head constable and ASI available 24 hours. Police will not work under any political pressure; we will arrest the owner of the unit too. Police is trying to get to the root of illegal sand mining.”
 
 Priyanka Mary Francis said, “The administration is taking all measures to simplify the process of sand availability in the district. As many as 29 loads of sand are available and stored at the   near Gandhi Maidan, Kundapur. A request will be forwarded to the mines and geology director to find new sand blocks and start the process in CRZ areas and in non-CRZ areas. The NITK will send a report on selected sand blocks, which will be sent to the government and soon sand will be available. At present though there is a shortage of sand in the district. The Mangaluru deputy commissioner has agreed to send sand on demand. The export of sand from the district has stopped and to control illegal export, three checkposts have been set up here." 
 
 She also said M-sand will be made available. Districts like Mysuru and Hassan are completely dependent on M-sand. 
 
 Members also demanded checkposts be set up to control inflow of ganja. Many students are found selling ganja near their schools and surrounding areas. They said arresting them will not work and finding the source will help. The   said there are two sophisticated patrol vehicle which monitor the highways. All necessary steps will be taken to control ganja in the district, he added.
 
 
