CHENNAI: Patients may cringe when told a catheter, wire or balloon going into their blood vessel or heart may have already been used on another patient, but many cardiologists say reused disposables don't necessarily cause harm.

 Reusing devices marked for one-time use isn't illegal, doctors say. “One reason is the state has little evidence of a safety problem,“   cardiac sciences director   said. “We have always reused expensive disposables because it the only way we can keep healthcare cost affordable. When equipment is reused, cost is divided. For instance, if the cost of a disposable is `90,000 and it is reused nine times we divide it equally between patients. That is how packages are designed,“ he said. Hospital administrators say manufacturers charge so much that they can't afford to use devices just once. Nor can they pass the cost along to patients as rates are fixed in ad vance by insurers in many cases. The state health insurance scheme, which has more than 600 hospitals, pays an average of `7,500 per angiogram involving X-rays to see if vessels restrict blood flow to the heart.
 
 Hospitals say disposables in bulk cost a minimum of `6,000. “If you use fresh disposables, you will be left with just `1,500 for the doctor, technician, a nurse and nursing assistant. No one comes at that price,“ HSB Consulting chief consultant   said. HSB advises hospitals.
 
 An angiogram in a private hospital costs between `12,000 and `20,000, depending on the room, he said. Heart treatment in India costs a tenth of that in the US.
 
 “If we do not judiciously reuse some of the equipment, we will be pushing the cost up severalfold. If the equipment is damaged or if the patient has some infection then disposables are thrown away,“   head of cardiology Dr   said. “Although labels on most equipment say they are not meant for reuse, many last longer,“ he said.
 
 Manufacturers make less money when such devices are cleaned, sterilised and reused. Until 2002, a medical col lege hospital in the city reused an `octopus', which holds the heart during a beating heart surgery , nearly nine times. When it broke, a smart bio-engineer fixed it. After this, the manufacturer resorted to making it less rigid. “It was more about economics than safety ,“ a senior cardiac surgeon said.
 
 Device manufactures say they would offer no guarantee that reused devices are safe and effective.
 
 “After one use, we consider them as medical waste,“ said a sales representative of Abbott, which manufactures devices such as cardiac stents.
 
