BHUBANESWAR: The   plans to present the three years report card of the   government with respect to   through banners and posters in the city in the run up to its national executive here on April 15 and 16 pitching its case for the assembly election in 2019. 

 The samples of its publicity materials released on Tuesday show the saffron party is all out to showcase how the Modi government has been extremely Odisha-friendly.
 
  From giving due importance to the unsung Paika revolt by the Centre to contributing lion's share to the Re-1-per-kg rice scheme in the state, the BJP is trying to hard sell Modi government's achievements to people in the state. The   government projects the Re-1-per-kg rice as one its most poor-friendly move, which is perceived key to its 2014 poll win.
 
 The BJP banners highlighting the Centre's recognition to Paika rebellion, the armed uprising against the British East India company in Khurda in 1817, is part of BJP's larger strategy to connect with Odisha. Modi is scheduled to felicitate kin of the 1817 uprising and other eminent Odia freedom fighters including Buxi Jagabandhu, Veer Surendra Sai, Chakhi Khuntia, Laxman Nayak and Nirmal Munda at Raj Bhawan on April 16. Finance minister Arun Jaitley, in his latest budget speech, had announced to commemorate the rebellion.
 
 The Paikas were the traditional land-owning militia of Odisha who also served as warriors. They revolted against the British after the later took over their rent-free land, 14 years after Odisha came under British rule in 1803.
 
 The BJP posters also highlight how central allocation to Odisha has gone up under Modi, Rs 52632 crore in 2017-18 around double of the allocation in 2014-15 of Rs 26869 crore, a significant counter to the Naveen Patnaik government's allegation of central allocation going down after the NDA II came to power. 
 
 The BJP highlights creation of 4,763 km national highway in last three years compared to 1358 km under UPA in 10 years, central assistance for opening five medical colleges, opening of IIM in Sambalpur and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research in Berhampur, among others.
 
 The posters have prominent pictures of Modi and BJP president Amit Shah. Some also have small pictures of state president Basanta Panda, legislature party leader KV Singhdeo, ministers Jual Oram and  . The BJP plans a motorcycle rally to welcome Shah on April 14 and human chain to greet Modi the day after.
 
 
