LUCKNOW: Two months after   went on protest following assault on medical professionals and other such incidents were reported closer home from   University, another case of alleged   was reported in the city. 

 The incident took place at Rani Laxmi Bai combined hospital, Rajajipuram, late Monday night when drunk attendants of a patient allegedly threatened and abused the staff.
 
 It was around 10pm when the guard on duty at the hospital asked male attendants of a patient admitted to the paediatric ward to stay out. As per hospital rules, no male attendant is allowed to stay with patient in paediatric and women’s wards.
 
 “When the guard asked the three male attendants to leave the ward, they said they will do so in 10 minutes. But they were drunk and when the sweeper in the ward reminded them of the 10pm rule, they began abuse,” said Dr  , emergency medical officer (EMO), who was on night duty. “When I intervened, they started threatening and hurling abuses at me too. They even called in 10-12 people to attack us,” he added. 
 
 As the scuffle turned ugly, authorities informed police through Dial 100, who reached the spot. “We informed police at the Talkatora police station around 11pm and they brought the situation under control,” said Dr R K Chowdhary, chief medical superintendent at RLB hospital. 
 
 After the incident, medical professionals at the hospital re-iterated their demand for adequate security at all hours including night to save them from such clashes. “Attendants misbehaving with hospital staff has become routine and two months back we wrote to the authorities to beef up the security but nothing was done,” added Dr Singh. 
 
 OTHER REPORTED ASSAULTS:
 
 April 3: Junior doctor at KGMU was allegedly assaulted by attendants of a patient. The doctor, the attendants and the university lodged separate FIRs
 
 Resident Doctor’s Association of KGMU alleged attendants were present in women’s section of the surgery ward where male visitors were present beyond permissible hours. The scuffle followed after attendants claimed negligence on part of the doctor. 
 
 KGMU formed a committee but no action was taken later. 
 
 April 12: Attendants of a patient from Musafir Khana (Amethi district) and junior doctors at surgery ward of KGMU claimed assault from each other’s side following a verbal duel. Doctors lodged an FIR and claimed attendants tried to use political power. Two junior doctors were suspended on preliminary inquiry by KGMU but were later reinstated when the attendant failed to appear before the committee for its statement thrice 
 
 
