Mumbai: For thousands of Mumbaikars living in apartments where maintenance has taken a hit as their housing societies have not been formed and are still unregistered, here is a ray of hope. 

 The state cooperatives department has allowed registration of housing societies of residential buildings which may not have received occupation certificates (OC); and commencement of construction and completion of construction certificates (CC) yet.
 
 To do this, residents will have to go to their civic or planning body concerned and get a certificate that says their building was ‘authorized’ and legal as per plan approved by town planners of that local governing body.
 
 A source in the cooperatives department said that there are over 1.2 lakh residential buildings across Mumbai Metropolitan Region, but only about 75,000 have registered housing societies.
 
 The department has also relaxed the criteria that mandates consent of 60% of flat- or shop-owners to form a society. Now, it will be enough to have signatures of 51% of the owners on the application to form a society. 
 
 According to the cooperatives commissioner’s circular, if a local civic body certifies that the building plan of a said apartment was sanctioned by it and the on-site inspection was conducted by its engineers during construction of the structure, then residents of such buildings can apply to the department to form a society and get it registered.
 
 As per earlier norms, CC and OC were mandatory for residents to form societies. “Now, the approved building plan certification by the civic or planning body concerned is enough for apartments to approach the housing society registrar and start proceedings to ensure upkeep of their premises,” said cooperatives commissioner Chandrakant Dalvi.
 
 Registration of co-operative housing societies is mandatory under the provisions of Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act 1960 and Rules 1961. According to Section 6 of the Act, the registrar (commissioner, co-operation) has powers to make changes or amendments as required in the registration norms. “All the above changes have been made by the commissioner in this legal capacity,” said Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association, which has over 30,000 societies as its members. Prabhu said the decision will help residents regulate maintenance to safeguard buildings and ensure better services.
 
 “It may be mentioned here that as per a verdict delivered by Bombay high court in 2013, a provision has been made that while registering co-operative housing societies, the society registration certificate should be issued only after ascertaining that the said building is not unauthorized,” a department circular stated. 
 
 “Some buildings had problems in getting OCs and CCs, and hence, registration of their societies was not possible. It came to the notice of this office that flat-owners were unable to carry maintenance of such buildings,” added Dalvi.
 
 
