He has a way of springing surprises. So while everyone is talking about  's adult web series, Maaya, which will premiere on January 27 on his newly-launched web channel, VB on the Web, Mirror has learnt about another upcoming web series, Untouchables. This one will go on the floors around March-April with the writer-filmmaker facing the camera.

 Vikram shies away from calling himself the leading man, insisting he's just a character actor playing a pivotal role in the courtroom-drama which revolves around a medical student, (Tara Alisha Berry) who's an escort to finance her education. And lands up facing a murder rap when her wealthy client is killed. Her dad, a chauffeur, pleads with his employer, a 48-yearold washed-up lawyer, to return to court one last time to save his daughter thereby justifying the tagline: The only one who can save her life is the one the world has given up for dead.
 
 Vikram who's grown up on BR Chopra's courtroom-dramas like Waqt, Ittefaq and  , has himself directed one, Kasoor. Untouchables stemmed from the desire to return to the genre and while writing it, Vikram felt he could play this character who's so much like him. 'Like me, he even suffers from fibromyalgia, a muscular ailment which makes one introverted and depressed because one is in constant pain,' he informs.
 
 He's faced the camera in the film   and for his televised series, Once Upon A Time With Vikram Bhatt (OUATWVB). And even though he sometimes forgets to say his lines, Vikram is confident of carrying off this role even if he doesn't see himself acting regularly.
 
 When shooting the last episode of Maaya the actor playing the lawyer just couldn't deliver so Vikram shrugged into his OUAT black suit and went to court. 'Necessity, they say, is the mother of invention, in this case it was the mother of discovery,' he smiles wryly.
 
 His films have some unabashed intimate scenes. Is he ready to romance on the camera? 'Oh my God no, that would be ridiculous!' he exclaims. 'I've had enough off screen romances and now I'm happy being socially and emotionally challenged, on and off camera.'
 
 He admits that as the years go by, he's growing more and more insular.'There are no more vices left -I don't drink or smoke and at a party, after a while, I am lost. I don't dance to the beat of that drum anymore,' he says.The title doesn't justify his state of mind but underlines the fact that both these characters are social outcasts. But isn't he taking a risk with an English title?
 Vikram points out that the digital platform liberates him from language barriers, the single screen-multiplex divide and censorship issues. There was a time when he consciously worked towards building himself into a   brand because that was the only genre which didn't need stars.Today, with money coming in from two-three cities and the multiplexes, it's time to rethink that strategy.
 
 'My present slate of six web series includes romance, thriller, erotica, period-drama, courtroom-drama but no horror. I'm not what I make. VB on the Web is like the Facebook stories I wrote for 200 straight days on anything and everything. I could even try a sci-fi, here,' exults the particle physics enthusiast, pointing out that these offerings are for young people who are hooked to  , Amazon and YouTube for streaming and downloading American TV shows because the desi ones only cater to the ladies and interiors. 'For them, Untouchables is a familiar word and hopefully a familiar world. For me, this digital world is a wonderland of exciting possibilities.Its party time of a different kind,' he signs off with a smile.
 
  
 
