72 hours ago, actress-filmmaker-activist   and Mumbai-based entrepreneur  , who tied the knot on January 2, 2010, recently announced that they had separated. "Subodh and I have decided to separate. Thankfully, it is very amicable. Our son is our foremost priority and as parents of a delightful and sensitive child we request that his and our privacy be respected. There's nothing to hide and there's nothing more to be said," Nandita said in her statement on January 2, 2017.

  
  
 When Mirror contacted the 46-year-old Award-winning actress, she said, "I am in the midst of fire-fighting for my 'Manto' film. Juggling motherhood with direction is hard enough. I have been open about my personal life, and, at the same time, very private. I hope people understand and respect that."
 
 The couple have two homes in Mumbai - Nandita will now live in their Bandra residence while Subodh will move into the Worli home. The 43-year-old-businessman, who is currently vacationing with his son in Spain, says that their six-year-old son, Vihaan, is free to stay wherever he wants but refuses to comment on the custody case because they aren't planning to file for divorce anytime soon. "He will always have two homes and he has no restrictions on where he wants to live," Subodh told Mirror, further reasoning, "Sometimes people just drift apart and separation is the best solution for both the individuals. It helps them blossom, as was the case for us."
 
 Subodh jokes that he may be 43 at the moment but feels as young as a 25-year-old at heart.
 
 In 2010, Nandita was pregnant with Vihaan, when the couple founded their own production house, they named it   after their soon-to-arrive firstborn, who they'd assumed would be a girl. Subodh, who has an MBA degree from the US' Kellogg Graduate School of Management, had been involved in various ventures before he decided to pursue his creative passions. After attending theatre workshops, Subodh decided to make his professional theatre debut with the 2012 play, 'Between the Lines', which was written and directed by Nandita, who also featured in it. The play marked her return to the stage after an eight-year hiatus. The couple also co-founded   -a digital platform for storytelling -around the same time.
 
 Will Chhoti and Cineplay continue to remain a partnership between the couple?
 
 "Absolutely!" exclaims Nandita, adding, "Cineplay is a great idea and I will continue to support it." Meanwhile, Subodh has no intentions of pursuing acting anymore and will explore other verticals related to filmmaking instead. Does he still believe in the institution of marriage? "I am an eternal optimist and believe in love and all that comes with it," he says, while Nandita chooses not to answer, saying, "It isn't fair to push me; these are difficult times and I would appreciate some sensitivity."
 
 Nandita's directorial debut, 'Firaaq', which revolved around the 2002 Gujarat riots, had won her the Special Jury Award at the 2010  . Now, the 46-year-old actress has buried herself into her second directorial, 'Manto', based on the life of Pakistani writer  , with   playing the protagonist and   stepping into the shoes of singer-actress Jaddan bai, mother of Nargis and maternal grandmother of  . The film goes on floors in the next three months. Speaking about her personal attachment to the project, Nandita had shared with Mirror (December 19), "What drew me to 'Manto' was his free spirit and courage to stand up against orthodoxy of all kinds. He wrote with a rare sensitivity and empathy for his characters. I realised that it felt like I was reading about my father, an artist. I feel 'Manto' is most relevant to our time."
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
