BATHINDA:The royal house of Faridkot finds itself at the centre of another row, this time over the cremation of the nephew of the last ruler of Faridkot.
The  , nephew of  , is dogged by uncertainty due to the “disputed“ cremation site. Brar passed away on Sunday .
 
 His cremation was planned at the abandoned   (royal cenotaphs) of the Faridkot state on Tuesday , as per tradition. The designated site is in the possession of a  , who claims that Maharaja Pahara Singh had handed it over to his ancestors nearly two centuries ago. Dass, who is the vice-president of Youth Akali Dal, claims his family has been taking care of the place for years. He maintains that the ownership of the Samadhan has not been settled as yet and the court has disallowed cremation at the disputed site.
 
 Mahrawal Khewa Ji Trust, the custodian of the buildings of the erstwhile Faridkot state, too claims ownership of the Shahi Samadhan. The trust functionaries point out that the cremation of all Faridkot royals has been done at the Shahi Samadhan, with the last rites of rulers Pahara Singh, Barjinder Singh, Balbir Singh and Harinder Singh Brar being performed here. The case pertaining to the properties of the erst while Faridkot state worth Rs 20,000 crore is pending in court. After the Chandigarh district court had decided the case in favour of the two daughters of Harinder Singh in 2013, an appeal was filed in the sessions court at Chandigarh.
 
 Mahrawal Khewa Ji Trust chief executive officer (CEO) Lalit Mohan said, “As per custom, Bharat Inder will be cremated at the Shahi Samadhan on Tuesday . Workers have already been sent to Faridkot to clean the place.“ He said nobody had any right over the historical place as all rulers or family members were cre mated there.
 
 Historian Subash Parihar has mentioned about Shahi Samadhan and its historical significance in his book `Faridkot Sikh State.' Dass told TOI, “Nobody has contacted us for the cremation. We will not allow it.The funeral should be held at the cremation grounds of Faridkot.“
 
