VARANASI: Striking junior resident doctors of Sir Sunder Lal (SSL) hospital, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) called off their strike following a talk with the university authorities on Wednesday night, two days after they had called strike demanding more security on the campus. They had also demanded action against students involved in creating ruckus inside labour room of hospital, on Monday night.

 The strike was announced on the night of March 27 after a group of   misbehaved with doctors on-duty in gyane ward and labour room. The students allegedly had a scuffle with resident doctors over treatment of kin of one of the students. While residents resorted to an indefinite strike, agitating students staged demonstration and sit-in outside VC lodge and central office.
 
 A meeting was convened earlier on Wednesday afternoon by hospital authorities to resolve the issue but it failed to reach any conclusion. However, another meeting was convened in the presence of Institute of Medical Sciences director VK Shukla in the evening following which the residents decided to call off their strike at 10 pm.
 
 In its letter addressed to the IMS director, the agitating residents apologized for the inconvenience caused due to strike and expressed their gratitude for acknowledging their grievances. 
 
 “We have called off our strike as our nine-point demands have been met by the hospital administration. These include installation of biometric system on hospital premises, students to be attended on their health diary only after being referred from health centre, not more than two attendants with one patient in hospital premises, CISF services to be provided, number of guards at sensitive areas to be increased, consultant on call to attend staff and students during emergency, round-the-clock patrolling by cops every three hours, reinforcement of police at hospital and 24x7 canteen,” shared one of the junior residents, on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Meanwhile, students staging sit-in outside central office since Tuesday continued their demonstration in support of their demand pertaining to expulsion of a resident doctor who had allegedly slapped a BHU students during the scuffle.
 
 BHU vice-chancellor, GC Tripathi, in the meantime, has constituted a five-member committee under the chairmanship of director of Institute of Management Studies Rajkumar to probe the matter and present its report within five days.
 
