HYDERABAD: Taken back by the  's ( ) decision to offer just 2 TMC feet water in response to its request for 29 TMC ft, the Telangana government has decided to complain to Union water resources minister   against 'partisan attitude' of the board.

 A decision on when to complain is to be decided by chief minister  . Top sources in the government disclosed to STOI that in a day or two, the chief minister will make a statement on the series of decisions taken by the board against the interests of Telangana and seek the intervention of the Centre.
 
 “As per the sharing formula, Telangana should get 299 TMC ft from river Krishna. Till now, we have utilised only 75.91 TMC ft and AP 184.09 TMC ft.We requested the board to allot the remaining 29 TMC ft to Telangana but it did not agree. We brought the matter to the notice of the chief minister as the board is not willing to give more than 2 TMC water to Telangana,“ irrigation special chief secretary Shailendra Kumar Joshi told STOI.
 
 The state is particularly upset that the board refused to include the Pattiseema water utilised by Andhra Pradesh as part of the latter's share. “The board refused to calculate the benefit accrued to AP due to diversion of water from Pattiseema and limit the water sharing to Srisailam and Nagajunasagar reservoirs. All this goes against the interests of Telangana,“ the sources said.
 
 The trouble erupted when KRMB calculated that 27 TMC as the available water in the two reservoirs and deducted 4 TMC for evaporation losses.With this, only 23 TMC water was made available and even in that, the board refused to allot sufficient water to Telangana state. “Even as several towns in Telangana are reeling under severe drinking water crisis, the board has offered only 2 TMC feet. Whereas the Telangana has to take care the Hyderabad drinking water needs for which the indent was pegged at 5 TMC feet during February , March and April months,“ the official said. “There is no hope of getting water from upstream till July and August. How would Telangana manage with the meagre supplies from Nagarjunasagar?“ pointed a senior official. The state government is preparing a detailed note on actual water consumption by both states in the last two years and wants the intervention of the Centre to restore the rightful share of Telangana. The TRS already in touch with other political parties to garner support to its plaint against KRMB and sources disclosed that except the TDP, all other parties have agreed to support the government move.
 
