PUNE: At the street-shoppers' haven, driving on the wrong side of the road as well as wrong parking have become a common phenomenon, with little or no check by traffic officials. 

 Right from the point when one enters   from the Kondhwa-end until  , the stretch is a designated one-way area with a view to regulate traffic. However, haphazardly parked vehicles, motorists' blatant disregard for traffic signals and vehicles on the wrong side of the road frequently cause chaos.
 
 Atharva Bhagwat, a working professional, stated that wrong-side driving is among the main traffic problems in the area. "There are quite a few lanes that connect to MG Road. In a bid to access these lanes, many motorists travel in the wrong direction. They spring up from the lanes and speed on the wrong side of the road, which increases the chances of a mishap. Such behaviour eventually leads to traffic jams or other problems," Bhagwat said.
 
 Adarsh Navle, who owns a stationary shop along the road, also holds similar views. "There are two major problems that need to be addressed the encroachments along footpaths that completely block the sidewalks and the two-wheeler riders travelling on the wrong side of the road and riding on the pavements. This has even caused accidents on a number of occassions. The cops presence can be seen along the road but then there is no improvement. How can the two wheelers even think of driving on walking pavements? This is strictly illegal," Navle pointed out. 
 
 A two-wheeler with two youngsters including a female was seen moving from the wrong side.
 
 When quizzed, they said, "I just have to go some meters to reach a restaurant where our friends are waiting. So we thought about driving like this. It is a Sunday and hence the number of vehicles is less too. Generally we don't break traffic rules. However, we are sorry," they said and moved on along the wrong side.
 
 People said that wrong parking and not obeying to traffic signals was another problem.
 
 "There are dedicated spaces all along the road in which the vehicles can be parked. However with the road crowded always, many park wrongly. The four wheelers are a major problem. The owners have got their drivers waiting in the car while they are out. The cars are parked haphazardly at different points causing a lot of problems. While taking out their cars from the parking spaces, they don't care about the moving traffic too. Also, many don't have the patience to wait for the signal to turn green. The cops are stationed but they find it hard to catch them as the bikes mainly are moving at top speeds,"  , another shopkeeper in the area said.
 
 A traffic police personnel posted at a signal claimed that they were good in their jobs.
 
 "M G Road is a busy place and sees heavy traffic. In the past few days, we have caught many people indulging in wrong side driving or flouting other traffic rules. While I cannot give a number, many have and are being caught and fined. However, it is difficult to keep a tab at all times," he said.
 
