JAISALMER: Where there’s a will, there’s a way. Khemaram, the judo coach of Govt Senior Secondary School at  , in Barmer district, is a living example of this adage. His determination to teach judo to his students has helped the school win many awards. The coach has trained his students so well that no school in the state has been able to defeat his students in judo.

 Khemaram, has been training students for last 22 years. Result: The students of this school have won gold medals at state and national level. Now Barmer district collector   has come forward to help the students go to the next level – international. He said, “There is plenty of hidden sports talent in the district, which can give Barmer an identity and set an example in sports. To bring this to the fore we are building several sports stadiums under MGNREGA.
 
 Though the school’s name is Government Senior Secondary School (Sutharon ka Tala) but it is identified by judo. The school for last 22 years has remained unbeaten in state school games. Judo was introduced here for the first time in 1994 and that year itself the school emerged as a winner in the sport. Since then there has been no looking back. So far, 172 children have participated at state and national levels. At state level these children have won 59 gold, 29 silver and 32 bronze medals. Fifty-nine children have played at national level and have won 2 silver and 6 bronze medals. The students practise judo every day for 3 hours. Many who live even six kms away come for practice.
 
 Coach Khemaram said when he came here there was no environment for sports. He found out that the students were attracted towards judo and so he decided to teach them judo.
 
 Children do not have to be forced to practise, they do it on their own. This time six girls of the school are going to Telangana to take part in national school games. Khemaram said the reason for success is hard work and dedication of the children. Khemaram too has been a student of this school. He is a wrestler and missed winning a medal in 1986 at national level. In1992 he became physical trainer and came back to the school to teach judo.
 
 Khemaram said now the situation is such that a girl from almost every seventh house in the area has won a medal in judo. Anita, Meena, Shanti and Bhanwari will be going to Telangana this month to take part in national school games. At least 84 girls and 45 boys have won medals in 22 years.
 
 Barmer Judo Association president   said Khemaram has been working hard for last 22 years. The result of his hard work shows when students win medals at state level championship.
 
 
