KOLKATA: The Travel & Tourism Fair (TTF) has been drawing a lot of crowd ahead of the   which will have an early start this year.

 Tourist seeking stays during the   have been thronging Netaji Indoor Stadium here, where TTIF is serving as a platform for the huge travel market in Eastern India, since 1989, as the oldest and one of the biggest travel trade shows in the country.
 
 TTF Kolkata is being held from 7 – 9th July, 2017 with a full-house show at the Netaji Indoor Stadium and Khudiram Anushilan Kendra. It will showcase 400 sellers from 28 states and 13 countries. The show has grown 10% in terms of number of participants and revenue, compared to last year.
 
 TTF Kolkata is one of the busiest travel trade shows in the country. Thousands of travel trade members visit the show in the first one and a half days reserved for the trade. Equally huge number of most avid travellers throng the show in the remaining one and a half days of the show, on the weekend. TTF Kolkata has maintained a steady growth, signalling positive sentiments in the travel trade, despite the headwinds due to demonetization and uncertainties of the GST regime from July 1, 2017.
 
 Ranked as the third wealthiest city in India (after Mumbai and Delhi), Kolkata has a unique tradition of taking domestic and outbound trips in large numbers especially during the puja holidays.
 
 24 States are participating in the TTF Kolkata, with their official pavilions. The biggest state pavilions include West Bengal as the Host State; Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh as Partner States. Kerala, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Andaman & Nicobar, Delhi and Jharkhand are participating as Feature States. There are also large number of participants from Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh 
 
 6 foreign countries have set up pavilions in TTF Kolkata, at the level of their National Tourism Organisations. SRI LANKA Tourism is participating for the first time, with a huge pavilion, with more than a dozen of hotels and operators from the country. Other foreign countries participating at the level of their National Tourism Organisations include BANGLADESH, CHINA, MACAO, NEPAL and THAILAND. Additionally, private sector participants from BHUTAN, CANADA, JAPAN, MYANMAR, UAE and USA have added feathers to the TTF this year. 
 
 With consistent support from the tourism departments of the host state West Bengal as well as various other states, Tourism Ministry of Government of India, National Tourist Offices of several countries, thousands of private exhibitors and trade associations, TTF Kolkata continues to be one of the biggest platforms providing opportunities for the buyers and sellers from across the country to showcase their latest offerings and build long term business ties.
 
 “TTF Kolkata is India’s oldest and one of the busiest travel trade shows in India. With the increasing importance of Outbound and Inbound potential in the East and Southeast Asia, it serves as a strategically important gateway for the industry. That is the reason it is a full-house show every year since last 27 years - a legacy that we are proud of,” remarked Mr Sanjiv Agarwal, Chairman and CEO of the organisers Fairfest Media Ltd.
 
 Shri Goutam Deb, Hon’ble Minister, Tourism Department of the host state Government of West Bengal said, “Government of West Bengal welcome all participants in TTF-India’s leading and pioneering travel mart. I am happy to note that this initiative originated in Kolkata 27 years back. West Bengal Tourism has been closely associated with and participates in it in a big way in TTF Kolkata and at many locations over the years. With tourism being a priority sector for this Government, I am looking forward to TTF Kolkata, which I hope will have the presence of many national and international tourism stakeholders. This will surely help in promoting tourism in the region.” 
 
