GOA: Goan Hindus mark their New Year on Chaitra Pratipada, known as   or Sansar Padwa, a day included in one of the three-and-a-half most auspicious days in the Hindu calendar.

 So propitious is the day that one need not look for a muhurta (an auspicious time) to commence any new work; any time is fine. 
 
 The day marks the commencement of the spring season in Goa and the neem tree holds special significance in the celebrations.
 
 Neem, Azadirachta indica, is an evergreen tree that is considered sacred by Indians. The roots of these beliefs possibly lie in the fact that the tree has 130 different active biological compounds that afford incredible medical benefits. In fact, it is known as a ‘one tree pharmacy’.
 
 The leaves of the tree are bitter to taste, but, traditionally, people have been preparing various delicacies from these leaves on Gudi Padwa. In many houses, a paste of the leaves is mixed with coriander seeds, jaggery and tamarind, and consumed immediately after one takes a bath.
 
 Shubhalata Kalangutkar from Borde, Bicholim, says, “As per tradition, we always believe in welcoming happiness by eating a bitter item. On the day of Gudi Padwa, we start our day by eating a specially prepared neem leaf chutney that is believed to purify the blood and strengthen the body’s immune system.”
 
 Devaki Rajesh Naik from Margao tells STOI, “In order to prepare the chutney, we make a paste of these leaves with ajwain (carom), cumin, tamarind and salt using a grinding stone. Both, the young and old members of the family eat this preparation.”
 
 As India is a predominantly agrarian society, Gudi Padwa marks the end of Rabi, or the autumn harvest period. Since   also have insecticidal properties, they were traditionally used to protecting food grains.
 
 Swati Nawathe from Vathadev, Sarvan, says, “In our family, we grind neem leaves with grated dried coconut, mix it with water and consume the bitter decoction. Only then do we relish various sweet dishes made to mark the occasion.”
 
 Among its many benefits, the leaves of the neem tree have great potential in the treatment of various ailments. A paste of the leaves with turmeric powder is applied to itching soles and cracks in the heels. Neem oil is both, an insecticide and pesticide. However, it is always better to consult an ayurvedic doctor when consuming a concentrated extract of neem leaves.
 
