PATNA: The Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport of Patna may soon live up to its billing, to a great extent, as an international airport with the Union cabinet chaired by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday approving a land transfer proposal for expansion of the airport to handle 30 lakh passengers per annum.   The proposal pertains to transfer of Airports Authority of India (AAI)’s 11.35 acre of land in Patna’s Aneesabad to the Bihar government in lieu of 13 acres of land near the airport. The land near the airport will be used for construction of a world-class two-storey terminal building and development of other facilities.    The state government has already okayed the transfer of its land to the AAI.    The new terminal building will have the arrival area on the ground floor and departure lounge on the first floor. It will also have provision for operating six aerobridges for fliers to board flights from the first floor.    “The Union cabinet’s nod was essential to commence work. We have begun the bidding process for selection of project management consultant, but the actual construction is likely to commence from July,” airport director R S Lahauria told TOI.    Though the need for airport terminal expansion was being felt for over a decade, talks for the same gathered steam from April last year when Union civil aviation officials, including secretary R N Choubey, held a meeting with state chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh at the airport. CM Nitish Kumar gave his approval in July last year.    The first block of the new building is proposed to be developed over the existing location of state hangar which will be demolished after developing three hangars at the Bihar Flying Club nearby, including two for the state government and one for the flying club.    After passenger operations are shifted to the first block, the existing terminal building will be razed to make way for the remaining portions of the new terminal building.    A meeting of airport users consultative committee is also slated to be held at the airport on Wednesday in this regard.    According to Lahauria, meanwhile, a proposal was also sent recently to the state government, requesting it to make available the land on the airport’s eastern side (towards the Chitkohra ROB) for extension of the runway. Against the length of 2,286m, only 1,954m remains available for flights take-offs because of location constraints.