PATNA: Teachers in the state capital have welcomed the National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) decision to review the content of all its textbooks for which a draft with necessary changes is being prepared by the expert committees of the   ( ). The teachers are also happy for having been invited to give feedback on the proposed changes. 

 An NCERT official told this newspaper on Wednesday over phone from Delhi that the present textbooks were created in 2007 and a few changes were made in 2012 in political science book only. “Now, we plan to make changes. Once the draft of the updated topics is prepared by the experts, NCERT will take feedback and suggestions from teachers and academics. The review is necessary in order to make the long-pending updates. It will take up to one year time to make changes in the textbooks,” he said. 
 
 Several city schoolteachers shared their views on the review of the textbooks.
 
 English teacher at Loyola High School, Suryakant Akela, said English should be more practical and enhance the personality of the students. “Students will not learn anything by memorizing prose, dramas and poems. They are concerned only about getting marks and not learning anything. Verbal and non-verbal communication on how to prepare for interviews and personality development should be added to the Language portion,” he said.
 
 Important historical events and leaders of   should be given more importance in history textbooks, said Vinita Sharma, a history teacher at DAV School, BSEB Colony. “Champaran Satyagrah, Yakshini and Veer Kunwar Singh should be dealt more precisely. The state marked the 100th anniversary of the discovery of Yakshini sculptor. But most of the students don’t know how it was found at Didarganj in October 1917,” she said.
 
 Abha Choudhary, a chemistry teacher at Notre Dame Academy, said, “Most of the topics and sub-topics in Class XI and XII are not explained, especially in physical chemistry. This is one of the reasons why teachers and students prefer other publishers’ books. Over 25% questions asked in competitive examinations are not summarized in textbooks and, at times, students fail to understand NCERT books.”
 
 “To understand the basic concepts in mathematics, NCERT books help a lot, but for practice, reference books are more helpful. Even some questions in NCERT books are solved incorrectly. The solutions were not given stepwise and in most questions, they skip crucial steps which lead to confusion among kids. There is need to update the textbooks with these things in mind,” said Sanjay Kumar, a mathematics teacher at Delhi Public School.
 
 
