IMPHAL: The RSS's move to involve the titular 'king' of Manipur,  , in Prime Minister  's poll campaign has paid off, with BJP doing exceedingly well in the Imphal valley - a traditional Congress stronghold. 

 In a symbolic move, Modi promised to protect the state's territorial integrity in the presence of the 'king' during his rally here on February 25. He also created history by becoming the first Prime Minister to share a dais with the 'king' since Manipur became a part of the   in 1949. In deference to Sanajaoba, Modi even addressed him 'Maharajah Leishemba Sanajaoba'.
 
 Notably, rebel outfits here, which have always opposed Manipur's merger with the country, want the state to be given the status of a 'sovereign' state.
 
 The RSS has been trying to rope in Sanajaoba to boost BJP's poll chances for more than a year now. Many believe Modi's assertion that the Naga framework agreement did not contain anything that could harm Manipur's boundary gained more credence because the king was present on the dais when he made the claim.
 
 The RSS and BJP had reason to worry as  ' fear of ceding territory to the Nagas is a deep-rooted one. "Many people were convinced by Modi's promise and this helped dilute Congress's attack," a political expert said, adding that love for the royal family ran deep in the state.
 
 The recorded history of the   dates back to 33AD. It is one of the oldest princely states in southeast Asia. The Vaishnavite Meiteis, in particular, are fiercely protective about their territory.
 
 Sanajaoba's appearance at Modi's rally also raised quite a few eyebrows as many felt the titular king should remain above politics. "This is a bad precedent. He should not have shared the dais with Modi at an election rally," a member of the royal clan had said.
 
 Keeping in mind his traditional dissociation from politics, however, the 'king' did not appeal for votes for BJP, but urged Modi to clarify the party's stand on Manipur's territorial integrity. He told the rally that the boundary of the state - home to various communities and ethnic groups - should not be affected at any cost, and not even an inch of her land be sacrificed.
 
 
