COIMBATORE: Nearly two decades after the serial blasts that claimed 58 lives in the city, three accused in the case are still absconding. Various investigation agencies are still clueless about the trio's whereabouts even as the city would mark the anniversary of the blasts on Tuesday. 

 On February 14, 1998, around 3.50pm, serial bombs exploded in the posh RS Puram area and various parts of the city. The blasts claimed lives of 58 people and over 250 suffered severe injuries. One of the bombs went off before the arrival of BJP leader   for a poll campaign at RS Puram.
 
 The case was handed over to the crime branch-CID (special investigation division) and the police arrested 168 people including Al-Umma founder S A Basha. A special court of bomb blast cases had acquitted eight people including Kerala-based   (PDP) leader   and released 102 people in August 2007. More than 30 people were sentenced to life imprisonment by the court and the accused went for an appeal before the apex court, where the case is still pending. 
 
 But the crime branch-CID (SID) police could not arrest the three absconding accused for the last 19 years. Their whereabouts are also not known. The three accused are Sadiq alias Tailor Raja alias Valantha Raja, Mujibur Rahman alias Mujibur and NP Noohu alias Rasheed alias Mankavu Rasheed. 
 
 Tailor Raja, son of Abdul Majeeth, a native of Bilal Colony at South Ukkadam, was the hardcore Al-Umma cadre. He played a key role in the serial bomb blasts. He was doing tailoring and embroidering work before involving in the serial bomb blasts. He was involved in a murder case in Nagore in 1996. He faced two more murder cases at Race Course police station in Coimbatore city and Karimedu police station in Madurai in 1996-97.
 
 In 1997, Tailor Raja along with his associates of Al-Umma came in motorcycles to Madurai from Coimbatore and carried a fatwa for murdering Jayaprakash, assistant jailor of the Madurai central prison. He had rented a house at Vallal Nagar where bombs were made and stored in 1998. Police said he had distributed bombs to few members of Al-Umma from February 12, 13 and 14 in 1998.
 
 Mujibur Rahman, son of AM Basha, hailed from Oppnakkara Street. He was a school dropout and played a key role in planting bombs in February 1998. According to police sources, he was the state spokesperson of Al-Umma and he mobilized activists in Coimbatore. He was also a TADA accused along with Al-Umma founder. 
 
 On January 15, 1998, he had attended the meeting at Al-Umma office in Coimbatore. He arranged push carts to plant bombs and he was also present on February 14, 1998 when the suicide squad was deputed at the BJP meeting venue at RS Puram.
 
 Noohu, son of NP Ali from   in Kozhikode, is also still absconding. Various police agencies, crime branch-CID (SID), special intelligence unit (SIU), special intelligence section (SIC) and intelligence section (IS) have been trying to gather information about the three absconding accused.
 
