PUNE: Build a toilet and win a trip to Singapore.

 The   (ZP) innovative model to encourage   has caught the fancy of other  .
 
 The   as well as other districts of the state have already planned preliminary discussions with authorities in Osmanabad in an effort to move from punitive to positive action.
 
 Local bodies are to achieve the open defecation-free target by October 2 as set by the state government. To help the process, the Osmanabad ZP has floated a unique lottery competition that offers villagers, who build a toilet at home, a trip to Singapore.
 
 Besides Osmanabad, Nashik and other districts are looking at a similar model. Officials said that villagers, who have never been abroad and may have never used a toilet, are readying to take up the task so that they can participate in the lottery.
 
 The drought prone Osmanabad ZP decided to come up with this model since it did not want to introduce a punitive action. ZP chief executive officer Anand Rayete told TOI that the winner of the competition would be chosen through a draw of lots for talukas that complete the construction before the deadline.
 
 Officials said there are eight talukas in Osmananbad and, with only one taluka declared free from open defecation, 1.41 lakh toilets have to be constructed until October. Since authorities wanted people to take up construction on a war footing, instead of introducing a punitive action they decided to give out a reward.
 
 ZP officials have tied up with Singapore tourism for the competition. Seven individuals will be selected for the tour through a draw of lots for the seven talukas. The ZP will sponsor the entire trip with an allocation of Rs10 lakh. The remaining funds will be generated through corporate social responsibility (CSR) activity.
 
 The ZP aims to construct nearly 800 toilets by October 2 and make the district free from open defecation, said Rayate. On the Singapore trip the officials said that the scheme’s aim is to create healthy competition.
 
 Singapore was selected as a trip to the Lion City would be an eye opener. Officials said that the five-day trip will be booked through Singapore Tourism and will be fully sponsored. Besides villagers, the ZP has also proposed to send officials, who motivate the villagers. The same has been discussed with the Nashik ZP and officials there are also contemplating a similar initiative.
 
 Officials from the rural sanitation department stated that this was an innovative model. The Osmanabad model can be replicated if there are enough funds available with the ZP. As part of the model, officials first aim to achieve 25% of the target by April-end, followed by another target by August and, finally, complete freedom from open defecation by October.
 
