Big V-neck is back and lower, the better. But it’s just one nip-slip away from wardrobe malfunction. Here’s how to bare right…

 There seems to be a celebrity cleavage competition going on. Recently, our most successful western export   took the 'golden' in Golden Globes literally by donning the shiny shade in a   gown. Back home, Hollywood hopeful   put the X in 'xXx' by following suit in a Naeem Khan. Even as the jury is out on who wore it best, many Indian celebrities have taken a leaf out of Kim Kardashian West’s stylebook by wearing the daring neckline. If new mommy   wore it post-baby bump in a sedate avatar, wunderkind Alia Bhatt styled her sternum in a golden blazer. And obviously our self-proclaimed fashion icon Sonam Kapoor had to show how it’s done in a near-naked Yanina Couture gown. 
 
 
 
 Celebrity stylist and fashion designer   calls it “the” big trend for the red carpet – national or international. ''The plunging neckline is all about being sexy and sensual,'' she says and adds, ''However, one walks on a thin line with it as it could either swing towards a memorable look or towards vulgarity depending upon quite a few factors.'' Now the style is spilling over (ahem!) to everyday fashion too. Fashion and lifestyle blogger   says, ''You can even wear a top or bodysuit with a plunging neckline along with jeans.'' 
 Amiin advises: ''If you are planning to wear a daring neckline you need three things – confidence, body type and, of course, double-sided tape.'' In fact, there are numerous tutorials on how to boob tape it, up a la Kardashian, available online for pointers. 
 
 
 
 Amiin is all for wearing it casually. ''Just use a deep neck body suit or lace ups and pair with denims. This look has the potential to go from a day look into a night look,'' she says. Bodysuits also work best as they keep the neckline pulled down and it doesn’t get a chance to loosen up from anywhere and lead to a wardrobe malfunction. Redhu says that the best way to rock this look would be to accessorise it with a black choker, deep red lips, black booties, huge silver earrings and a bohemian cover-up, ''because we are in India and the men don’t know how to control themselves here''. Point taken.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The plunging look works best on women with a more modest chest like Kangana Ranaut’s. Rock a low cut for a day occasion by opting for a blazer minus 
 the shirt.
 
 
 
 Don’t clutter or hide your neckline under some statement necklace like Priyanka Chopra. Best is to go for a choker or statement earrings so that the neckline gets the attention it deserves.
 
 
 
 Keep the makeup dewy or nude with just a hint of colour on the lips. A wet look with open hair like Alia Bhatt’s, or hair tied up in a bun, works best.
 
 
 
 A plunging neckline is a statement in itself. Go with minimal accessories, maybe just a pair of elegant earrings and rings. But wear it with confidence and don’t fumble like Deepika Padukone.
 
 
 
 Contour your chest to take the entire look to its full potential – like Kareena Kapoor. A plunging neckline is pointless if you have a pasty chest. If you have bumps or acne, cover it up with makeup. It will make the photos come out million times better.
 
 
 
 A near nude look like Sonam Kapoor’s requires a sound knowledge of boob tape and pasties.
 
