BENGALURU: Doctors at a private hospital in the city said that when Karthik (name changed), a Mysuru resident, visited their organisation claiming to be a below poverty line (BPL) card holder to avail of free treatment, he arrived there in an SUV. They also recalled two other cases, wherein patients who opted for free treatment came to the hospital in cars.

 Such cases are not limited to a single medical institution. Many   in the city point out that, under the government schemes, they have provided free treatment to individuals who wore diamond rings, but claimed to be BPL card holders. Private healthcare institutes in the city observed that a majority of the patients who benefit from these government schemes are not genuine BPL card holders. In fact, private hospitals the piling dues that the government is unable to clear largely to the misuse of BPL cards. 
 
 Dr BS Ajaikumar, a member of the advisory board of the Federation of Healthcare Associations (FHA), said that when the Vajpayee Arogya Shree programme started, it aimed at offering world class healthcare service to 20-25% of patients who fell under the BPL category. “However, after eight years, we notice that the system is being abused. Even people from the middle class are using these services by getting BPL cards. BPL card holders constitute nearly 80% of the patients that private hospitals receive in Mysuru and Kalaburagi. The initial estimate was 20-25%. The government loses money as a result,” Ajaikumar said.
 
 He added, “We gave the government sufficient advance notice, telling them we would stop offering our services owing to non-payment. It has been eight years since the schemes were launched, but the funds have not been adjusted to inflation. How can private enterprises fulfil their commitment to patients if the charges they are paid are eight years’ old? Sometimes, good deeds have unintended consequences. This is a clear example.”
 
 SAST schemes
 
 
 
 The scheme, which comes under Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) scheme, was launched in 2009 to provide BPL families access to quality medical care for treatment of serious illnesses through an empanelled network of super specialty health care hospitals. The scheme was initially launched in six districts under the Kalaburagi division, and was later extended to seven districts under the Belagavi division. Now, it has been extended to the 17 districts under Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions, thereby covering the entire state. As many as 402 tertiary procedures are covered under the scheme. 
 
 
 
 Jyothi Sanjeevani Scheme was launched in 2014 to provide all state government employees and their dependent family members, quality tertiary health care for the treatment of catastrophic illnesses. The facilities included that were offered included hospitalization, surgery, and therapy. The scheme covers tertiary treatment of seven broad specialties.
 
 
 
 Rajiv Arogya Bhagya Scheme was launched in 2013 to provide all APL card holders willing to make co-payment, quality tertiary health care for treatment of catastrophic illnesses involving hospitalization, surgery and other therapies through an identified network of super specialty hospitals. The scheme covers tertiary treatment of seven broad categories.
 
 Sources: Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST)
 
