 was an anxious man a day before India's limited-overs squad for the series against England was to be announced. He had all the reason to be, having done everything to make a strong case for his selection: a season-high 56 wickets in 10 Ranji Trophy matches with four five-wicket and two ten-wicket hauls to propel   into the semi-finals for the first time since 2004-05. In doing so, Nadeem became only the second bowler after Hyderabad's Kanwaljit Singh to top 50 wickets in a season twice, apart from scoring valuable runs down the order.

 With speculation rife that the BCCI selection committee would likely rest R Ashwin and   following five Tests with England, and with Axar Patel and Jayant Yadav out with injuries, it appeared that Nadeem's long-cherished dream to represent India was about to become a reality. Instead, the selectors included Ashwin and Jadeja, retained Amit Mishra and recalled Haryana's Yuzvendra Chahal in the ODI and T20I squads, thus leaving no place for Nadeem. 
  
 The 27-year-old had previously stated that having played for India A, he was confident that a national call-up would come soon and that he should not get restless over it. For someone who has been around the domestic circuit since the age of 15 and seen his peers make the big league, that wait can get taxing. But not for Nadeem, who believes that his string of impressive performances in domestic cricket will only help build a base for him to one day make the national team. 
  
 "I was hopeful of a call but that doesn't mean it's the end of my world. I still relish playing for Jharkhand and India A. There have been instances in the past where I thought I was in the fray for selection but I'd like to believe this was the closest I got," Nadeem tells TOI Sports. "Anyway, I've always said that it's written so it'll happen if and when it has to happen. That doesn't take my focus away from my performance. I can only hope to continue doing well and with it, hopefully the dream of playing for India will one day be fulfilled."
  
 Nadeem's bowling has witnessed a rapid rise. He credits some of it to the mentorship of former India captain  , who worked closely with the Jharkhand unit throughout the Ranji Trophy. The other bits, as Nadeem puts it, come from the fact that over the years he has become the linchpin of the team. Jharkhand lost their captain and lead pace bowler   early in the season, but in his absence the team didn't need to look beyond their servant of well over a decade.
 
 "I've been playing for 10-12 years now and as a senior bowler, the team expects me to pick up wickets," Nadeem says. "It is important to live up to those expectations and since if we play as a team for a prize as big as the Ranji Trophy, as a leading bowler I have to set an example. It is the same responsibility that allows me to focus better and hence the performance is coming along well.
  
 Like any cricketer, Nadeem values Dhoni's inputs and admits his involvement has helped Jharkhand to an unimaginable extent. "When you've got India's best captain besides you, needless to say it makes a world of difference. Throughout the season whatever ideas he had, he would share it with us and help us plan our move session-by-session. If you've followed Jharkhand's progress this year, you'd see that we have won matches in sessions. His tactics might be unique but always productive," he says.
  
 "In our first game of the season against Maharashtra we were playing on a green track. I opened the bowling and thought it would be better to flight the ball. But the opposition scored freely off me and were rotating the strike. 
  then advised me to bowl a bit flatter and with some pace. That helped me contain runs and I picked up the wicket of Swapnil Gugale in the second innings. I picked up confidence from that spell and it helped me throughout the season."
  
 Nadeem is one of the few players to not switch an IPL franchise even once since his maiden season with Delhi Daredevils in 2011. Between 2012 and 2014, he played 35 matches and took 25 wickets, and even though his numbers dried up in the previous two seasons, Nadeem acknowledged its role in having a bearing on his domestic performances.
  
 "When you're playing alongside and against big names, the room for error is extremely marginal. Especially bowling, one bad ball and you can get tonked which can then change the entire complexion of the game. That helped me put more discipline to my bowling and I improved my line and length," he reveals. "From there when I moved to play domestic circuit, the difference was evident.
  
 It is the same discipline that has played a prime role in taking Jharkhand to the final four. The same confidence is reflecting on the entire unit. In the 2012-13 season, Jharkhand were relegated to Group C, and factors such as inconsistency, inexperience and poor team selection had marred their campaign. So what has been different this year?
  
 "Over the years, Jharkhand has produced really nice individual players and performances but we couldn't quite come together as a team. The batting needs to back the bowling and vice-versa and it was the synchronization between that we couldn't quite get right the previous years," Nadeem says. "This season we have improved on that. Everyone knows their roles and the injection of young blood has come to fore. Ishank (Jaggi) and Ishan (Kishan) have some 1600 runs together and the result is out there."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 And if these aren't enough testaments to Jharkhand's rise, add to it the fact that this was the first season where teams played on neutral venues and Nadeem's team excelled. They beat Maharashtra by six wickets in their first match in Delhi, drew with powerhouse Karnataka in Greater Noida, defeated Rajasthan in Vadodara, inflicted innings defeats on Saurashtra and Odisha, and beat Haryana in the quarter-final. For Nadeem personally, this has been a season against which his performances will be measured.
  
 "I think adaptability is the key to playing away from home. When you're playing at home, you obviously know the conditions better. You've played on those surfaces before and you have an idea as to how it'll play," he says. "It's totally opposite when we're playing on neutral venues because only when you've once bowled a bit on unfamiliar conditions will you understand what is required; and you need to quickly understand what pace and what length to bowl at. Especially for a spinner; understanding how much to grip and turn the ball, the importance of variations.
  
 "I just stuck to my basics. The momentum that I had gathered last season, I just wanted to take it further. Last year we played five of eight matches away, so that experience also prepared me well."
  
 Nadeem could have almost been deprived of pleasures such as spinning the ball off the rough and using his stock variation, the arm-ball, had it not been for his coach Imtiaz Hussain's inputs during his school days. Idolising Wasim Akram, Nadeem wanted to be a left-arm fast bowler and according to his classmates he used to be a terror with the leather ball, generating decent pace for a 12-year-old. But lacking the physical built for a fast bowler, Hussain insisted that a young Nadeem spin the ball.
  
 Nadeem was also aided by his elder brother Arshad, a top-order batsman who went on to play Ranji Under-14 and 19 before giving up cricket. Nadeem's father thought it was risky for both his sons to take up cricket as a career, and hence Arshad let Nadeem follow his pursuit of becoming a cricketer and practiced medical instead.
  
 "My bowling started becoming effective because of Arshad, who was a damn good batsman. I also picked up some of his batting traits too … or so I'd like to believe," he says with a laugh. "Cricket is evolving and recently, tailenders have also started springing surprises. I think the speed at which the game is changing, a bowler cannot afford to just be a bowler. It always helps to get those crucial 20-30 runs at the lower order. This season I've made some vital contributions with the bat. I've had a few century partnerships lower down the order."
  
 While coming so close to selection can be seen as a victory in itself, Nadeem is aware that the road to becoming the fourth player from Jharkhand - after Dhoni, Aaron and Saurabh Tiwary - to play for India will demand more from him, even if it means bettering his haul of 56 wickets in a season (for good measure, he took 51 last season). His wait might have stretched longer than expected but Nadeem, rest assured, instills belief that he'll find his way up the ranks soon.
 
