KOLKATA: After actor   was remanded to   till July 10, actor   has voiced his concerns. Insisting that he too wants to know the truth, the actor said he has full faith that justice will be done.

 Speaking about Vikram, the actor said, “I have known him for quite a number of years. It pains me to see how his image is being strategically maligned in public. Vikram is innocent until proven guilty and I fail to understand why we are having a trial by media before court verdict is out. Law will take its own course. But before that happens, why are so many baseless rumours being spread about him? Is it by accident or by design that a group is consistently spreading this rumour? I don’t know but I guess, time will give all the answers.”
 
 On being asked what rumours is he talking about, Ankush said that it is unfair to spread rumours about Vikram being “intoxicated”. “All he said at the press conference is that he wasn’t intoxicated. The dictionary meaning of intoxicated is ‘(of alcoholic drink or a drug) cause (someone) to lose control of their faculties or behaviour’. Anyone who attends a party will know that there are people who hold a glass and may or may not sip a drink or two. Are they intoxicated? Are they inebriated? No. All Vikram said at the press conference is that he wasn’t intoxicated. He didn’t say anything about social drinking. Then what makes people feel that Vikram was fully drunk during the time of accident and that he was not at all in a state to drive properly? I know that Vikram had a habit of being barefeet while driving. He just felt comfortable that way. That has always been the case. Why should one ever link this habit of his with the reason for his accident?” the actor wondered.
 
 To elaborate his argument, Ankush said, “Had that been the case then Vikram-Sonika’s friends could have stopped them from leaving the party. I would have expected their rehab-returned friend to do so. I am told that this friend had initially quoted that Vikram was absolutely fine when he had left the party with Sonika to drop her home. So sure was he that Vikram would drive home safely that he didn’t even bother to find out what happened to her. If my friend was going back home with a tipsy person, I would ensure that she reaches home and messages me. If I don’t do that it means I am absolutely sure that they will reach home safely. That, I am guessing, is the reason why he slept peacefully till noon the next morning and didn’t bother to attend the multiple calls to him,” he said.
 
 As for Sonika, Ankush said, “What I have known about her from others, Sonika came across as a matured, intelligent and independent girl. She chose to return home with Vikram that night. This proves her faith on Vikram. No intelligent girl will willingly choose and allow a fully drunk person to drive her home after midnight. I feel her friends should not question her intelligence by spreading rumours about Vikram’s ‘intoxication’,” he added.
 
 In defence of his friend, Ankush said the video showing Vikram with a glass in his hand doesn’t prove much. “We attend parties regularly. I am a teetotaller. Yet, sometimes, I will be seen with a glass in my hand at parties. Does that prove I am intoxicated? Well, it doesn’t. And if it does, I must say that 90% of party-hoppers with glass in their hands should be branded as ‘intoxicated’. Since we don’t do that, I fail to realise why Vikram is being subjected to such scrutiny. Even having a bottle in his car with alcohol traces also doesn’t prove anything. How does one know who put the bottle in the car and when that was done? How does one know who took sips from it? How does one know if the sips were taken on the day of the fatal accident? Too many questions are floating all around. I am really keen that they get answered as early as possible,” he said.
 
 Stories about Vikram and Sonika fighting in the car has also upset Ankush. “I just have a small request to people spreading this rumour. Was there was CCTV camera inside the car? Can someone please come forward and answer how on earth did anyone know that they were fighting or exchanging pleasantries in the car? I somehow feel that a lot of information is being purposely spread to tarnish  . Let us all wait for the court’s verdict. If he is guilty, Vikram ought to be punished. After all, we have lost a lady. We can continue arguing on social media but fact is that Sonika is no more. Nothing will get her back. Of course, we deserve to know the truth. Let’s all patiently wait for the truth to come out. Before that happens, it is irresponsible to pass such judgments against anyone.”
 
