VIJAYAWADA: It's raining Everesters from Andhra Pradesh. Ever since the expedition to the world's highest peak began in early May, 14 youths have scaled the Everest. Yet another batch of Intermediate students scripted history on Monday when they conquered the peak. 

 The two boys and two girls who achieved this extraordinary feat are Sandhya Bhai Vadithe, Hari Prasad Ganugapenta, Sundar Raju Repalle and Rani Boddu. The students' expedition was fully sponsored by the AP government. According to reports, the entire ascent was completed in a record period of 30 days. After starting from the base camp, the four took a night's rest at their advanced camp which was at a height of 8,300 ft. During the final climb the wind velocity was around 70 kmph and the temperature plummeted to -40 degree Celsius. Between 5.30 am and 6.30 am (Beijing time), the four students completed their climb.
 
 This is the third summit where underprivileged students from AP were trained free of cost to scale the Everest. While the first batch scaled Mt Everest on May 12, the second batch summitted on May 16. It may be recalled that 124 students were initially selected for 'Mission Everest-2017, AP Youth On Top Of The World' programme. After rounds of training and grading only three batches of students received the nod for the final climb. The AP climbers were led by expedition leader Shekhar Babu, who himself comes from a humble background. His father is a tractor driver.
 
 "This summit is special because of the girls. Considering their background, this accomplishment is truly extraordinary," special commissioner of youth services Komal Kishore told TOI. Necessary training and provision of required amenities were taken care of by the AP youth services. 
 
 "After we came up with the mission Everest programme other people from different states approached me for helping them in their dreams of scaling Everest. We supported them in the capacities we could. Many of them were part of the group which scaled   on Monday," Kishore added.
 
  from the AP youth services could not complete the summit. She was sent back to the base camp because of medical reasons. As of now, Raji  , a housewife from   district who joined the group as a private entity, climbed up to 8,700 ft. She returned due to extreme weather. Officials said she may try again depending on weather conditions on Tuesday.
 
