'It was 
  
  and already, a long queue had formed before this private school at Bypass road, the venue of Dance India Dance’s audition in Doon. This year, the show makers had issued strict instructions, preventing participants from queuing up from the night before, which has been a practice in the past.

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The auditions, which started finally at 
  had dance enthusiasts not only from the city but across the country coming and taking part. Take the case of Gaurav Tandon, a participant from Delhi. He was not only auditioning from Doon and plans to take part in the Delhi auditions, he have already done so from Ranchi and Patna. "I want to make sure that I get selected for the show this year, so I am auditioning from multiple cities," says Gaurav.
 There were hundreds of other participants at the auditions. While for some, it was a platform to get showcase their talent and earn some name, for others it was a chance to learn from the who’s who of the industry.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Shubham Negi and Deepak Thapa from Rishikesh, who had also participated in India’s Got Talent (IGT) and reached the quarter finals this year, are looking forward to this reality show too.
 Deepak said, "We want to get selected here not just because we are passionate about dance but also because if we become successful, we will make the journey of many aspiring dancers from Rishikesh easy. They can give our example and they won’t have to fight with their families like us to pursue dancing."
 Shubham added, "Dancers are often not respected and people still think that dance can’t be taken up as a career. But I saw my friends’ and family’s perspective change when we went to IGT. It was then that I realized that these reality shows don’t just provide dancers a platform but they also help us earn respect in the society."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Seema, 23, from Doon said, "I have been learning   dance since the past five years but have been pursuing it only as a hobby. But as I kept following reality shows on TV and saw the performances of participants and established dancers, I started getting motivated to take dance up more seriously. My biggest inspiration is Raghav Juyal. It is amazing to see a person from Doon make it big in the industry through a dance reality show and I am excited that I am participating in the same show now myself."
 
 
 
 For 20-year-old Shromona from Bhiwadi, Haryana, it took some effort before she managed to convince her parents to allow her to participate in the reality show. Shromona said, "Girls in   are not really encouraged to pursue singing and dancing professionally. Even for today’s auditions, I had to come with my dance teacher and my friend’s parents. My parents were not agreeing to allow me to participate in the show." She added, "But in Doon, however, I saw people really love and respect their dancers. I hope to make it through the auditions and become a successful dancer one day."
 
 
  
  
 
 
