Battling with excess weight and life-threatening allergies, Samta Deepak was determined that she would not succumb to her weaknesses. Instead she chose to fight against adversities for a healthy life. Here’s her inspirational   which will motivate many to stay fit and healthy.
 
 
  Samta Deepak
 
 
 37 years (Mom of 2 kids)
 
 
  80 Kgs (After second pregnancy) 
 
 
  15 kgs (Post pregnancy, second C-section)
 
 
  I have severe life threatening egg and honey allergies. Cross contamination, touching bakery products, inhaling something like a bread, fruits that have been placed near eggs could lead me to emergency and near death experience. So when I had this allergic reaction 11 months back (6th time in a year), my doctor said if this happens again we won’t be able to save you. The side effect was worse. I couldn’t lift my kids and it was tough to breastfeed my daughter. but then God guided me not to get disheartened. I was determined that I will not give up. I spent almost five hours a day on the Internet on studying how allergies can be cured? I didn’t want to give up. I was already into Bootcamps, marathons, tough mudder races. The time allergic attack last happened, my daughter was 10 months old and son was 5 and half years. I came across a wonderful friend Pratichi who told me about SQUATS ( fitness, diet, training group). In the past, I had deep dived into exercise and   and followed all kinds of diet plans but I was not able to understand what is right and what is wrong. Nothing seemed to work. But this time I didn’t feel like I was on a diet. Now it has become my lifestyle.
 
 
  
 
  1 scoop of whey protein post workout, 100 gms of spinach or sauteed vegetables. 50 gms of paneer or cheese, 10 ml ghee or coconut oil and a cup of Bullet proof coffee.
 
 
  150 gms of green and leafy vegetables, 50 gm paneer/tofu/soya. 5ml ghee and yoghurt
 
 
  Handful of strawberries, almonds, yoghurt/almond milk
 
 
 
  150 gms of greens, 50 gm paneer, and 10ml ghee
 
  Paneer 75g, ghee/butter/coconut oil-10ml, rice with a bowl of Daal
 
 
  Gulab Jamun, chole bhature, South Indian cuisines, dark chocolates
 
 
  I wake up at 4:00 am and attend Bootcamp, HIIT, Weight strengthening 5 days a week, running/yoga/cycling- 1 day and sunday is rest day. 
 
  I attend Sant Nirankari congregation every Sunday, and I believe we are spiritual beings. I love philanthropy. 
 
 
 I started my own food blog after my allergies became serious. I love gluten free pizza for low carb and ketogenic diet and ketogenic low-carb broccoli soup.
 
 
  We are so obsessed with low fat, low calorie, no ghee, no butter kind of foods. And I was also one of them. We have been cursing and degrading saturated fat for the past 20 years. But understanding the body and its need scientifically helped me a lot. Being vegetarian and allergic to eggs, I used to think lentils are sufficient for protein intake, which was not the case. I understood the macro calculations and the difference between body fat percentage and muscles mass percentage. Sometimes, I indulged in high cardio exercises, which helped in   but I later learnt losing only muscle mass is not a healthy way. Adding strength exercises was a big twist in this journey.
 
 
 I lost my best friend Renu to cancer on Feb 7, 2017, who was physically fit and strong but she could not eat for last 21 months via mouth as she had mouth cancer but never complained. She used to motivate me to never give up as she herself was a warrior. I feel our bodies are gifts from God- by being fit and healthy, we are also better able to carry out our God-given vocation on earth. Count your blessings. Get up and change your lifestyle. New day new life new hopes new dreams. I will not give up. My husband, my best friend Deepak is my greatest motivator. Every morning you have two choices: continue to sleep with your dreams, or wake up and chase them.
 
 
  The scale can only give you a numerical reflection of your relationship with gravity. That’s it. It cannot measure beauty, talent, purpose, life force, possibility, strength or love. No matter how you feel, get up, dress up, show up and never give up!!!
  
 
