NEW DELHI: The   will hear an application on Friday on a child’s behalf seeking recall of the apex court’s September 12 order relaxing a November 2016 ban and permitting sale of   in Delhi to exhaust old stock of nearly 50 lakh kg of fireworks.

 The application, moved on behalf of Arjun Gopal and two other children through advocate Pooja Dhar, said the court had banned sale of firecrackers in Delhi by an order on November 11 last year immediately after Diwali. But a bench headed by Justice Madan B Lokur on September 12 modified the earlier order by a larger bench. “Although further entry of fireworks into Delhi was prohibited, this court granted liberty to the permanent licensees to exhaust existing stock, about 50,00,000 kg of fireworks,” the applicant said.
 
 One of the reasons for questioning relaxation of the complete ban on firecrackers was that Justice Lokur, as additional solicitor general in September 1998, had acted as amicus curiae before the Delhi High Court in a case relating to ban on firecrackers.
 
 The applicant said, “The amicus curiae had filed his report dated September 14, 1998 which specifically records the submissions of ministry of environment and forests and the Central Pollution Control Board which recommended instant ban on flying fireworks (including rockets), joined crackers and crackers commonly known as atom bombs and maroons. This (fact) has been suppressed by all parties who were in know of the events, which has therefore (resulted in the court granting permission) for sale of all sorts of fireworks.”
 
 The applicant said he had dug out documents filed by CPCB before the Delhi HC in 1998 and alleged that the stand taken by the CPCB 20 years ago before the HC was “at shocking variance” with the stand it took before the SC. “All the entities are guilty of suppressing relevant information in the proceedings before the SC and failed to disclose it to the apex court,” the application said.
 
 Before the HC, “all authorities were unanimous in their view that crackers should only be burst in designated places. In fact, minutes of the meeting held in the office of the lieutenant governor clearly stipulate that it cannot be burst on the road, but in open spaces/parks”, Gopal’s counsel said.
 
 The application said Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and CPCB had carried out elaborate measurement of air pollution level on Diwali day in 1997 and told the HC that particulate matter content in atmosphere more than doubled during Diwali day compared to the previous day.
 
 The petitioners said, “Obviously, pollution levels going up during Diwali is not a recent phenomenon or a one-off situation but has been occurring over many years. In fact, over the period, pollution levels have only become worse. This being the case, there was no reason to modify the interim order of November 11 last year.”
 
 
