NAGPUR: For a patient on ventilator,   (ABG) test is something on which his life may depend on. Being in   (ICU), the doctor is expected to spontaneously perform the test based on manual calculations. 

 The same task has now become ‘wrist-ready’ as paediatrician Dr Satish Deopujari has developed an app through which doctors can now perform the test on their ‘iWatch’ more precisely in just a few minutes.
 
 The iWatch-based ABG app was inaugurated by Sagar Meghe, treasurer of   (DMIMS), Sawangi, in the city on Sunday. The programme was organized by Child Hospital and Research Institute, Nagpur, in association with DMIMS, and Paediatric Intensive Care Chapter, Nagpur. Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (Karad) dean Dr Vedprakash Mishra, Dr Deopujari, paediatrician Dr Vishram Buche were also present on the dais.
 
 ABG test checks how well the lungs are able to move oxygen into blood and remove carbon dioxide. In 2016, the ABG app was developed for cell phones (both Android and Apple-based), but realizing the value of time and ease of use for a doctor, the app was made iWatch accessible. Dr Deopujari said, “When the patient is on ventilator, ABG has to be performed at the time and place of patient care. What we have developed is a ‘point of care technology’.”
 
 He said, “Right on the watch screen one can find the icon, we feed the report in it and in a single tap get the result. Based on the conclusion we take decisions.”
 
 Another mobile-based app called Neonatal Resuscitation India (NRI) was also launched at the ceremony followed by a workshop based on utilization of the app. NRI, developed in collaboration with   (NNFI), can be used by doctors to take right decisions while giving resuscitation. The app is based on the algorithm formed using international guidelines on neonatal resuscitation.
 
 NNFI past secretary Dr Sunil Mendiratta said, “Out of new born 100 babies, 10 of them may not cry. It’s a matter of concern and that’s when this app comes into picture. It will guide the doctor right there. It’s a boon for junior doctors while for a senior doctor it can help them take precise decisions.”
 
 Apart from Dr Deopujari and Dr Mendiratta, Dr Ajay Gambhir, Dr Anand Bhutada and Dr Kaustubh Trikande were also part of the team that developed the app. Dr Bhutada said, “A US-based company ‘Roundglass Blossom’ has developed the software. NNFI donated Rs1 lakh, while majority of the services provided by different entities have been given free of cost. ”
 
