PUNE: The   on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to the principal and management of a school, four days after the driver of one of its buses was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a   in the vehicle.

 The show-cause notice was issued after the Regional Transport Office (RTO) collected a copy of the FIR registered against the driver from the Kondhwa police station on Sunday. It sought explanation as to why the registration certificate and road permit issued to the institution should not be suspended or cancelled after the incident.
 
 Confirming the development, deputy RTO Sanjay Raut told TOI on Tuesday, “The show-cause notice has demanded a reply from the management as to why the driver’s licence should not be suspended and the badge given to him cancelled.”
 
 The RTO has given three days to the school management to reply to the notice, said Raut.
 
 The school principal told TOI, “We have not received the show-cause notice from the RTO yet. We have obtained necessary permission from them for running the buses. We shall reply to the notice after we receive it.”
 
 Another RTO official said after the school replied to the notice, necessary action would be initiated against the institution’s authorities in the coming week.
 
 The school bus driver had allegedly sexually assaulted the girl after classes between January 21 and January 23. Initially, her parents had reported the sexual abuse to the school in Kondhwa and demanded action against the driver.
 
 The parents later registered a complaint against the driver under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act with the Kondhwa police on Friday night. He was arrested the same day.
 
 Vehicle seized
 
 Sub-inspector Swati More produced the driver before the special court on Tuesday and sought extension of his police custody remand for conducting detailed investigation.
 
 The court granted More’s plea and extended the police remand of the driver till February 10.
 
 More said the police had seized the school bus on Tuesday after its driver confessed to his involvement in the crime. The bus was not seized earlier for enabling the school authorities to make alternative arrangements for ferrying students.
 
