PATNA: Altogether 11,793 constables recruited in   police on January 18 last year have been performing duty without proper training. This is one of the main reasons behind their rude behaviour with common man and poor policing in their respective areas of posting.

 These constables, 4217 girls and 7576 boys, joined their 215-day training at 34 centres in the state on January 18 last year. They were supposed to receive certificates after completing their training. But, they are yet to get the certificate of a trained constable even after more than 500 days; the reason being that they were deployed on duty without completing the training, sources said.
 
 “According to rules, a recruit is to undergo 215 days of continuous training to become a constable. During training, the new recruits are taught about Indian Penal Code, Evidence Act, police manual and behaviour, Naxalite problem, human rights, security and traffic rules,” said a source. 
 
 When contacted, DG (training) K S Dwivedi confirmed that training could not be completed at many centres as the trainees were deployed on law and order duty. “I don’t have the actual figure now, but yes,   and some places have poor training situation,” he said and added that their training would be completed by this year-end.
 
 “There is no use of training if it is not finished within a time frame. Recruits keep forgetting whatever is taught when there’s a gap in training,” said a senior police officer, adding that it ultimately affects the entire police force in the long run. It was for the first time that the training department has provided study material for the trainees.
 
 Worried over the deployment of new recruits on law & order duty without training, a senior IPS officer said, “It can prove disastrous as they don’t know how to behave in a tense situation.” He said these recruits are like showpieces when used for policing. “In past, it has been seen that trainees deployed for maintaining law and order made the situation worse,” he added.
 
 Another police officer said the trainees behave rudely and arrogantly with people as they are yet to learn proper policing. Such incidents in Patna were reported recently when mindless use of baton by these trainee constables on the roads resulted in injuries to the common man. Most of the time, these untrained constables are not able to manage even traffic and it results into long jams. 
 
