New Delhi: In what seems to be yet another   between the AAP government and the bureaucracy, the former has hinted at a   against   CEO Keshav Chandra for alleged financial irregularities. The Delhi assembly’s committee on public undertaking has already forwarded a complaint against him to the committee on privileges. 

 A government source said that the   committees had been asking for papers related to 14 projects under two major STPs of DJB, indicating there was an irregularity of over Rs 700 crore in these. “We are looking into whether in-principle and work order approvals were given by the board. An inquiry is likely to be initiated into this matter,” he said.
 
 DJB officials, however, said that this was another means of harassment as the two STPs were being monitored by NGT, which had gone into details of their tenders. They have thrown their weight behind Chandra. The DJB employees have also written to the Delhi assembly speaker speaker, asking for action against the chairman of the committee for “insulting and humiliating” the staff of the water utility.
 
 On Friday, the committee on public undertaking, headed by   Vishesh Ravi, met the CEO and senior members of DJB to discuss release of funds for pending works. DJB sources said that when they reached, the committee members asked everyone except the CEO to leave the MLA lounge where the meeting was to take place. 
 
 “It was highly unusual since we have attended meetings of this committee earlier as well. All of us went out and in a few minutes, we heard shouting and screaming. In a short while, the CEO came out and we left. The MLAs tried browbeating the CEO in what appears to be a planned move. After insulting him, they have now forwarded a complaint against him to the assembly’s privileges committee,” said an official. “All employees of DJB are behind the CEO and demand an apology from the MLAs for the way he was insulted.” 
 
 Sources within the committee alleged that Chandra had misbehaved with MLAs and had not been cooperating with the committees on public expenditure and estimates.
 
  “Despite repeated reminders, Chandra has not shared any document with the committees. On Friday, he was being asked why he has not released funds for various projects that are pending. Engineers have been saying that they have no money to work with while Chandra has been claiming that funds have been released to ensure that he would not intimidate them, the committee sent the engineers out and spoke to the CEO separately. He refused to give straight answers and the committee has complained against him to the privileges committee,” said a source.
 
 This is not the first time that the AAP-led government has come in conflict with the bureaucracy. 
 
 In Chandra’s case, sources say that the new water minister is not satisfied with him after the former asked for a report on water shortage in the city and claimed to have received a “wishy-washy” response.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Chandra could not be reached for his comments.
 
 
