THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After sparking a controversy by dubbing the UDF's victory in   as 'victory of minority communalism', devaswom minister   triggered another row on Thursday by alleging that Congress workers, in several places in the state, were supporting the RSS in its mission to turn temples into weapons training centres.

 While replying to discussions on demand for grants in the assembly on Thursday , the minister urged the Congress to look at instances when its workers were providing assistance for the Sangh outfit to conduct weapons training at temples.
 
 The remark caused a furore in the assembly with the opposition launching a strong protest and forcing the minister to withdraw his statement.
 
 Immediately after Surendran's remark, Congress member V T Balram said the minister's statement without any substantiating evidence, amounted to defaming the Congress. “On my query, whether the government was aware of any such instances, the chief minister had already replied in negative.Now, the devaswom minister has made a contradictory statement to make a defamatory allegation,“ he said.
 
 Though the speaker assured that he will examine the matter, the minister chose to withdraw his statement after opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala too came down heavily on him for making false allegations. Surendran, however, went on to hit out at Congress leader and   (TDB) president  .He accused Gopalakrishnan of polarizing people on communal lines and inspiring other Congress workers to adopt a similar stand. Adding to an earlier comment made by P C   against the TDB president's 'communal remarks', the minister said Gopalakrishnan's speeches were not in agreement with the Congress' ideologies.
 
 “The TDB is steeped in corruption. Besides, the government cannot accept the TDB's unilateral decisions on several matters, including the change of name of   temple and the decisions to construct a new temple in Ponnambalamedu and to appoint the TDB secretary as the commissioner,“ he pointed out.
 
 The minister added that necessary legislations will be introduced to rectify the anomalies and different styles of functioning of 1,400 temples under the Malabar Devaswom Board.
 
