PATIALA: The   ( ) have issued a second show cause notice to a private hospital and two other doctors of   and Hospital (DMCH) in an alleged case of  . A copy of the letter dated July 25 is with The Times of India.

 Four doctors from the city have been asked to send their medical registration details, after TOI highlighted the case of medical negligence. City residents have sent a complaint of medical negligence to PMC, and PMC has asked for the registration number and certificates of the doctors, along with a clarification related to the treatment and death of the newborn. Along with this, complete records related to the treatment of patient Pulkit Kapoor and her baby has been asked.
 
 PMC president Dr AS Sekhon said: “We are just following the procedure. Before taking any legal action, a show cause notice is sent thrice. This the second time the PMC is sending the notice, and if they don’t reply, then the last and third notice will be sent as per the rules. If they still don’t reply, the case will be transferred to the disciplinary committee, and they will decide the punishment or what legal action has to be taken.” PMC has sent a letter to four doctors who were treating the patient in question — gynaecologist, paediatrician, anesthesiologist, and other paediatricians from DMCH who treated the newborn after being referred.
 
 While complainant Karan Kapoor (father of the newborn) has alleged that the private hospital in Civil Lines had shown negligence due to which his child died, they did not check the patient while she was in labour, and did not provide an equipped ambulance with oxygen to transfer the baby from their hospital to DMCH.
 
 Karan said: “After 20-25 minutes, our baby was referred to DMCH, and they wasted nearly 40-45 minutes in arranging an ambulance from different hospitals. Finally, when the baby’s health got more critical, they shifted him in their own car without oxygen, which is the main cause of death. How can a newborn be sent without oxygen? Even when the baby was born, they inserted an ET tube (endotracheal tube) in his mouth, which was blocked. In the report given by DMCH, it clearly stated that the ET tube was blocked, and baby was hypoxic (very low oxygen level) — nearly 38-40%, which should be 80-100%. 
 
