NAGPUR:   (MFD) has designated   ( ) as the nodal agency to establish coordinated efforts for   in the state.

 “This will go a long way in enhancing   and establish synchronized works at state level. It will also bring uniformity,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) and wildlife spokesperson GK Vashishtha.
 
 Bird ringing forms a crucial aspect of studying birds by helping scientists understand details like the routes birds take to fly, their migration patterns and nesting sites. BNHS has been ringing birds since 1926 in various parts of the country.
 
 Vashishtha said BNHS had long been asking to be named as nodal agency. “Though researchers will be allowed to conduct scientific studies on ringing, BNHS too will have details on these birds,” he added.
 
 BNHS would be the lead agency to coordinate bird ringing and migration studies and will provide assistance to NGOs and educational institutions to undertake such studies. It shall draft the protocol for bird ringing and all the proposed bird ringing projects shall be scrutinized by it for further clearance by the authorities concerned.
 
 Deepak Apte, director of BNHS, said, “It will assist the forest department in developing strategies for recording and managing migratory species.” He added such coordinated work would allow BNHS to compile data in a systematic manner and share it with forest department in usable format. “Also, BNHS aims to develop national flyway maps. We believe we are best suited to do this as we have data about bird migration collected over 70 years,” said Apte.
 
 BNHS has ringed over a million birds at different places in the Indian subcontinent, with the initiation of bird ringing study in India in 1959 funded by the World Health Organization (WHO). It has also carried out numerous long-term projects like avifauna project and bird migration project focusing on movement of population structure of the Indian avifauna and migration pattern of Indian birds and making its data bank respectively.
 
 Vashishtha said all these studies were undertaken with continuous support and cooperation from the state forest departments. BNHS was picked owing to its vast experience in bird ringing and training volunteers for these studies, he said.
 
