CHANDIGARH: The proposal to get an   status for   University of Technology is not an overnight thought. It dates to 1960, when the then Punjab government was keen on converting this institution to an IIT. 

 The first proposal for this was sent by the Punjab government to the Centre in 1966. At that time, the then governor of Punjab, Ujjal Singh, confirmed the decision of converting PEC into IIT in his budget speech that year.
 
 After the first proposal was submitted to the Fovernment of India to get the IIT status for PEC, the proposal was accepted in-principle. It was proposed to convert PEC into IIT or an institute of national importance in the third year of the third five-year plan, provided the Punjab government provides financial assistance. However, the Punjab government approved that they would continue to finance the institute after the conversion to IIT in 1964, the decision was deferred to be taken to the fourth five year plan. 
 
 Another meeting was held between a delegation of   Teachers Service Association ( ) and G K Chandiramani, the then additional secretary to the Centre, on July 28, 1966. However, with the reorganization of Punjab, the matter was not followed up. 
 
 It was after a gap of 30 years that the matter to upgrade PEC into an IIT was revived in 1996, by the then home secretary Anuradha Gupta. Following her advice, the principal of PEC submitted a note for the upgrading to a   (NIT). 
 
 Since the Centre decided to upgrade technical institutions, the PEC authorities and UT administration officials were called for a meeting for upgrading PEC on April 17, 2001. In 2003, the Union ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) notified PEC as a deemed to be university and its name was changed from Punjab Engineering College to PEC University of Technology. 
 
 The matter of upgrading PEC was again revived in 2013, when a meeting was held in the office of R S Gujral, state exchequer, Government of India, to discuss the matter. It was in this meeting that top officials of the UT administration and MHRD asked PEC to draft and submit a proposal for upgrading it to an IIT or NIT. Following this, the proposal was sent to the secretary, MHRD, on May 9, 2014.
 
