LUCKNOW: With instructions coming from the Centre to implement   of all housing projects, Uttar Pradesh Housing and Development Board (UPHDB) has announced to issue online tenders for projects less than Rs 1 crore too. Earlier, the board used to issue online tenders for only projects whose cost was above Rs 1 crore but in order to implement Centre’s instructions and bring transparency into the tender process, the board announced to do it for projects less than Rs 1 crore.

 Even though the system is officially launched from May this year, UPHDB formally announced it on the occasion of 242nd meeting of board. Another big decision in compliance with Centre’s orders was to allow Rs 400 as special pay in salaries of all junior engineers. The board approved it too claiming that it will make a big difference to the salaries of junior engineers holding diploma in engineering.
 
 The meeting was chaired by principal secretary of housing and urban planning department of Up government, Mukesh Singhal who instructed the UPHDB officials to launch a special drive for a week to resolve all pending property related disputes and grievances of people. He emphasised on complying with the deadline of government’s integrated grievance redressal system (IGRS) and resolving people’s complaints on priority.
 
 The board has also announced constructing the first ever township in   after witnessing a huge demand for houses there due to urbanisation. The   has already developed such townships in tier III cities like Sitapur, Hardoi, Raebareli, Sultanpur etc and on the same patterns, it has proposed to build a township in Lakhimpur Kheri on 128 hectare land. This will be the first township of the city providing all sorts of housing units like flats, commercial spaces, plots, independent houses to all income groups of people.
 
 The   approved the proposal on Thursday and forwarded it to the state government for approval. Officials said the cost of acquiring land would be about Rs 1000 crore and the project’s construction would begin by next year.
 
