PUNE: The city’s rule   those very rules, at least according to   awareness drive. 

 The volunteers said that they saw several police officers blatantly flouting rules while driving during a   awareness drive conducted by the Pune office of California-based Viavi Solutions under the Agriculture College Flyover on Ganeshkhind Road on Monday.
 
 Volunteer   said, “Several police officers were riding motorbikes without helmets. How can the police expect common people to follow rules when they defy the norms themselves? Policemen not following the very rules that they have sworn to enforce on citizens is a major cause for concern.”
 
 Other volunteers said that a policewoman who was riding a two-wheeler without wearing a helmet laughed the matter off when she was asked to wear the protective gear.
 
 Eight teams of more than 90 volunteers from the IT firm stood in the middle of the road, on the zebra crossing, every time the signal turned red and displayed placards and posters on various road safety measures from 9am till 5pm on Monday.
 
 Zulekha Nellari, a representative of the company, said the on-duty police officers, however, try hard to make sure citizens follow the rules. In fact, they also thanked the company for taking up this initiative, Nellari said.
 
 “The lack of awareness and blatant flouting of road safety rules by citizens prompted us to undertake this campaign. Throughout the day, we observed numerous two- and three-wheeler drivers, including police officers, riding without helmets or seat-belts, on the wrong side of the road, overtaking other vehicles dangerously and even crossing the road illegally,”  , another team member, said.
 
 “We spoke to several rule flouters and requested them to follow safety rules. We also rewarded those who adhered to rules with small gifts,” Ahire said.
 
 The organization plans to follow up Monday’s campaign with several more in other parts of the city. 
 
 “The public response was excellent. Many realised their mistake and pledged to wear helmets and seat-belts. We want to keep inspiring citizens,” Nelluri said.
 
