MYSURU: The death of a  , a local bird, and its quick burial at  , a haven for migratory birds, shocked citizens as Mysuru recently reported cases of avian influenza. A week ago, seven free-ranging and migratory birds were found dead in  . 

  After test reports confirmed that the birds had died of avian influenza H5N8, the authorities shut dow n the facility for a month after taking bio-security measures. The authorities are passing the buck with regard to the recent incident, saying they're not aware of it or it doesn't come under their purview. Soon after the bird was found dead in the northern part of the lake area in the morning, two workers opened a pit on the dried lake bed and buried it. Photojournalists captured the burial on camera. The workers may not have been aware of the influenza reported in Mysuru or the authorities concerned are not monitoring the health of birds at the lake. The lake is located on the   campus. Its executive engineer Kishore Chandra told TOI that he is not aware of the incident but will look into it. Forest and civic officials said the lake area doesn't come under their purview. Deputy commissioner D Randeep said he would check with varsity authorities and ask them to exhume the carcass to confirm the cause of death. 
 
  DCF Karikalan said they're keeping a watch on birds at Lingambhudi Lake, which is managed by the forest department. 
 
  2 deer die at Mysuru Zoo: Two Brow Antler Deer died due to infighting at the Mysuru Zoo late on Sunday. Zoo executive director K Kamala said they died due to injuries sustained in fighting. 
 
 
 
 At a time when avian influenza is causing global concern , the death of a bird near a Mysuru lake needs thorough investigation.What's more alarming is the way the authorities handled the issue. The alacrity they showed in burying the bird before confirming the cause of death is unfortunate. In a district which has reported bird flu cases in the recent past, unnatural bird deaths should be closely monitored.Every year, a large number of migratory birds flock to the Kukkarahalli Lake. The lapse of the officials concerned could have serious repercussions. Passing the buck won't help in any way; prevention is always better than cure.
 
 
 
