NASHIK: The traffic signal at   — between   — has become notorious for its errant motorists and inaction of the   against them.

 On any given point, one gets to see a number of motorists jumping the traffic signal as if it does not exist. Currently, due to the rush at Dwarka junction, many motorists from the city who are proceeding towards   prefer taking the road passing through Mumbai Naka and Pournima Signal.
 
 Similarly, motorists from Nashik Road also prefer taking the same route while proceeding towards the city. As a result, the rush on this stretch is huge throughout the day.
 
 Meanwhile, the rush of vehicles on the Pakhal Road from Wadala Naka to Wadalagaon is also huge all throughout the day, due to which the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) set up a road signal around three to four years ago.
 
 Jyoti Tayade, a teacher who uses this road on a daily basis, said, “It is ridiculous to see how some motorists simply ignore the signal and drive through the junction as if the there was no signal. In fact, there are many people who do the same thing. Motorists, who want to halt at the signal till they get a green light, are abused by motorists from behind.”
 
 Another resident from Nashik Road, Ravi Godse said “once in a while the police need to arrive at the signal and slap heavy penalty on all those who do not follow the traffic rules. Autorickshaw drivers, car drivers, bikers have little respect for the law, especially at the said signal for reasons unknown.”
 
 Many citizens said roads around the junctions were too narrow, with many shops around them leaving very less space for motorists to move freely. “Police should be deployed at the signal throughout the day and till late evening to ensure that there is no traffic violation,” they said.
 
 Meanwhile, ACP Jayant Bajbale of the traffic branch said the very reason for putting up the signal is to remove the need of police personnel at junctions. If everyone starts following the signal, there is no reason for traffic cops.
 
 
