JALANDHAR: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) may have got   poet   arrested for maliciously hurting religious sentiments of Sikhs through his latest poem ‘Mein Te Nanak,’ former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s adviser on national affairs and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) general secretary Harcharan Bains has good things to say for the theme of his poem. However, Bains has asked Gagg to revise the poem leaving “no scope for his opponents to exploit.”

 Taking a nuanced view of the poet and his work, Bains said the poem rather raised a few relevant and disturbing questions on “our society” and use of derogatory adjectives seemed to be “a literary ploy” to underline how Guru Nanak’s followers had defied his teachings and rendered his Gurbani irrelevant. 
 
 “As an honest observer, I must confess that Surjit Gagg’s poem on   Dev ji raises quite a few relevant and disturbing questions...,” Bains wrote on his Facebook wall.
 
 “But I hope that as an honest poet, Gagg and his admirers will admit that he could have exercised greater poetic sensitivity and linguistic dignity in conveying the same message with greater impact. He has needlessly invited a controversy which will divert attention from the true merits of his poem,” he said.
 
 “The poem highlights the courageous idealism of the great guru. The problem lies in his taking literary symbolism to weird extremes. By calling Guru Nanak as his friend and brother, Gagg declares his loyalty to the Guru’s teachings. But in sheer poetic anger, he resorts to a symbolism which will be very hard to explain to most of the devout followers of Nanak Sahib. As a lover of poetry, I can only wish that Gagg will revise his poem , without sacrificing its theme , but changing the allegedly offensive expressions with words that leave no scope for his opponents to exploit,” Bains said.
 
 On the issue of sacrilege, Bains quoted a verse from Gurbani with interpretation, “Even if the entire human race were to get together to describe him (God), none would be able to either enhance or lower his greatness.”
 
 Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha president Sarabjit Singh, general secretary Sushil Dosanjh and vice-president Joga Singh demanded Gagg’s release, saying that attack on the freedom of expression could not be tolerated but have expressed strong dissent with his language also. Taraksheel Society also demanded his release.
 
 Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha led by A K Maleri and Professor Jagmohan Singh also flayed Gagg’s arrest and demanded his release.
 
