NEW DELHI: Twelve franchises battled it out for India's finest poker players at the first ever auction of   held here on Saturday.

 For the maiden season, the franchises followed the Snake Draft process that allowed team owners to take turns in selecting players. The process was divided into three rounds. The first for the PRO DRAFT, second for the LIVE DRAFT and the third for the ONLINE DRAFT. 
 
 In each round, the owners picked a number from 1-12 from a bowl. This number determined the order in which the team selected the players. The first pick was from the teams PRE DEFINED region (North, South, and East, West) and the order started from 1-12. The second pick was from any region and the order started as 12-1. The second and third round followed the same process. 
 
 Speaking at the event Gaurav Mohan, owner of Goan Nuts, one of the teams of the PSL 2017, said, "We at   have been working tirelessly to create a team that will be unstoppable and can't wait to finally get down to business. It's time to bluff and hustle."
  
 The captain and mentor of the team is Dhaval Mudgal, one of the most consistent performers at the Asia Circuit. He has been a part of the Poker industry for a long time in various roles - as Chief Editor of Card player India, tournament organiser and player and has now become the captain of Goan Nuts team. Speaking about the league Mudgal said, "The team is very excited as they are competing with some of the best players around."
 
 A total of 133 Poker players went under the hammer for the 12 teams in the first-of-a-kind auction. The team owners cautiously and sensibly ensured they had competitive squads going into the competition. Each team picked up six players at the auction (2 pro qualifiers+ 2 live qualifiers + 2 online qualifiers) to complete their team of 9 players which included 1 mentor, 2 PRO players and 2 wild card entries.
 
 The name of the qualifiers are Vivek Rughani, Tarun Goyal, Avinash Tauro, Siddharth Kaira, Raman Jauhar and Pranay Chawla. The Wild Card entries included Thomas Ward from New Zealand and Bryan Huang from Singapore. 
 
 The much anticipated season of the Poker Sports League (PSL) will kick off on May 22 with a two-day boot camp on May 22 and 23 followed by the finale of the league at the Deltin Casino Royale, Goa from May 24-28.
 
 The 12 teams will consist of a total of 108 players who will play for the prize money of INR 3.36 crore and one of the teams will be crowned as the Best Poker Team in India.
 
 
