HYDERABAD: The year was 1937. Hyderabad by then had emerged as a major centre of poultry and dairy units in the British India. Ghee produced in Hyderabad was quite popular and it was in high demand in other parts of the Nizam dominion. Ghee was linked to wealth and guests were treated with delicious dishes prepared in ghee. In fact, the Nizam VII, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, had supplied free food and curries made in ghee to the Hyderabadis affected by the Great Musi Deluge of 1908. Such was the importance ghee had played in Hyderabadi cuisine those days.But there was no quality control and unscrupulous elements made money by adulterating cow or buffalo ghee with Vanaspati or hydrogenated oils.

 But researchers from  , which was established only two decades ago, and their counterparts in the   (predecessor of the modern day Indian   Technology-IICT) had decided that enough was enough. They collected ghee samples from various dairies and farms in Hyderabad and conducted spectroscopy tests to find out if they were adulterated. The result shocked the Nizam government and soon there were raids.
 
 The research study by OOU and Industrial Research Laboratory coincided with the silver jubilee celebrations of the coronation of Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan. The results of the spectroscopy of ghee were presented at the 24th session of the Indian Science   during January 2-8, 1937. Hyderabad, which was ahead of many cities in British India in science, technology , medicine and education, had the know-how to conduct spectroscopy tests to find adulteration of oils.
 
 Unscrupulous elements, however, were not aware of the fact that   researchers were capable of detecting adulteration. OU and IRL team compri sing SR Bhate, Habib Hasan, and NN Inuganti published their findings revealing that “53 per cent of ghee samples were adulterated to the extent of 80 per cent and a little over 10 per cent of the samples were adulterated to the extent of 60 per cent“. They said only 27 per cent of the ghee samples were pure. The revelation during the silver jubilee year in the presence of Indian senior scientists sent the government into a tizzy. A study of the proceedings of the ISC-24 reveals that the researchers had conducted `absorption spectra' of the samples. They made `characteristic graphs' to arrive at the adulteration level.
 
 Not only the OU researchers detected adulteration of ghee, but also made certain modifications in the methods of examination of ghee samples to differentiate between pure and adulterated samples by visual observation and simple tests. Osmania University thus saved the day for the Nizam in his 25th year of rule.
 
