KOLHAPUR: The civic administration has said that is mandatory for medical officers of primary health centres (PHCs) of the   to visit the areas from where   cases have been reported. 

 The cases of dengue are on the rise in the city and the KMC’s health department has decided to closely monitor the situation. Last month one person from Sadar Bazaar died of dengue. So far this year, 23 cases of dengue have been found and most of the cases were reported in the past two to three weeks. 
 
 Ramesh Jadhav, acting medical officer for the vector borne disease control programme, said, “Medical officers have to visit the areas, not their juniors. The daily reporting must be done to the district office of the vector borne disease control programme. Blood samples should be collected and suspects from neighbouring families should be surveyed. The rules have been made strict so that no case of dengue left unreported. Also, the medical officers have to co-ordinate daily with the pesticide department to spray pesticide in the area and keep the records.”
 
 The   has begun daily surveying of the areas where suspected dengue cases are being found. Details such as the number of high fever patients, number of containers/vessels contaminated with the vector, blood samples taken, results of blood samples, and personal information of the suspect individuals have to be submitted everyday to the programme office. 
 
 “Most of the patients get admitted to private hospitals and get unreported to the civic body. We have asked the private hospitals to notify the patients or else face hefty fines. Recently two cases of swine flu have been reported and the patients are stable,” Jadhav said.
 
 On Tuesday, the KMC issued an advisory to the citizens and also distributed handbills in various areas. It has asked the people to keep vessels clean and covered. The medical officers have found that in most of the places, the dengue causing mosquitoes bred in containers with water stored for many days. 
 
 =======
 To rein in the virus
 
 Medical officers of PHCs must visit areas from where dengue cases have been reported 
 
 So far this year, 23 cases of dengue have been found 
 
 Daily reporting must be done to the district office of the vector borne disease control programme 
 
 Blood samples should be collected and suspects from neighbouring families should be surveyed
 
 Medical officers should co-ordinate with the pesticide department to spray pesticide in the area 
 
 Details such as the number of patients, results of blood samples have to be submitted everyday to the programme office 
 
 Private hospitals must notify the patients or else face hefty fines
 
