PUNE: If the authorities in Jalgaon have their way , a teacher of a class of 60 students could well have his or her salary cut if more than three students remain absent on any particular day.
A strange notification by the   (ZP)   says that teachers are likely to face a pay cut if more than 5% students in a class remain absent.The notification was issued on February 4 to all schools, block development officers, education officials as well as extension officers, warning that they would be held responsible for poor attendance.
 
 While the department has not explained the quantum of the salary cut, the notification has understandably caused extreme resentment among teachers in the state.
 
 Teachers in the district said that while the administration was launching several educational initiatives, the impact of these was adversely affecting them. ZP school teacher   from the district said, “Teachers can do very little when it comes to the migrant population, an issue that we have talked about with the administration. We cannot stop parents from migrating. Rather than wanting to cut our salaries, the administration should address the migration problem,“ he said.
 
 Another teacher,  , said many people migrate from Jalgaon district to neighbouring Madhya Pradesh for four or five months in search of work and enrol their children in schools there during that period. “Maharashtra follows the unified district information system (UDISE) which has all data regarding schools and students that is submitted every year. But MP does not follow this system. Hence, students who move out of Maharashtra cannot be tracked. It's unfortunate that the administration wants teachers to take the responsibility for low attendance in classes,“ he said.
 
 Jalgaon ZP CEO   told TOI, “We have only floated ideas and invited opinions from teachers and educationists. A decision will be taken only if everyone is convinced. We will also have to take the approval of the state government.“
 
 Pandey claimed the ZP has taken a lot of efforts to reduce absenteeism in schools.“Pictures are taken of daily attendance and uploaded on mobile apps. Besides, we have been analysing data on why students stay away from school and have taken measures to improve attendance.We also conduct meetings in the district with various stakeholders to create awareness regarding regular attendance in schools,“ he said. Pandey said that while the percentage of out-ofschool children in Jalgaon was 28% last year, it has been brought down to 8-10% this year. “We aim to bring it down to 5% per day ,“ he added.
 
