NASHIK: At least 700 liquor shops, bars and permit rooms within 500 metres from the state and national highways passing through the district will have to shut operations from Saturday. 

 The   on Friday refused to revisit its order banning liquor vends within 500 metres of national and state highways from April 1 and ruled that this would also bar hotels and restaurants on highways from serving liquor. 
 
 Immediately after the Supreme Court order, the Maharashtra government issued a circular stating that all types of licences, including liquor shops, bars and permit rooms within 500 metres from the state and national highways, will not be renewed from April 1. 
 
 The government also directed the excise department officials to strictly follow the Supreme Court judgment delivered on Friday. 
 
 There are around 1,100 liquor shops, permit rooms and bars in Nashik district. Of these, 60-70% are located within 500 metres from highways.
 
 A senior excise department official said, “We will not   of the liquor shops, bars and the permit rooms located within 500 metres from the state and national highways from April 1. They will have to close down their operations from Saturday.”
 
 Sanjay Patil, president, Nashik Liquor Merchants’ Association, said, “Around 70% of liquor shops, bars and permit rooms in the district will be affected . It will also take time to shift the shops elsewhere.” 
 
 In its December 15 order that kept in mind the large number of deaths on highways due to   and the easy availability of alcohol, the SC had ordered that no liquor vend could operate within 500 metres of NHs and SHs. 
 
 It had also said these vends could not be visible from the highways or put up hoardings advertising their proximity to the highways. 
 
 Nearly 75 liquor vendors from across the country had petitioned the SC for relaxation of the   on the ground that it would cause enormous revenue loss to states as well as hit their business while causing difficulty for commoners to get alcohol. 
 
 
