CHENNAI: Before   screened ‘Panjali’, a documentary dealing with the issue of land encroachment, at   recently, the audience wondered what it had to do with a character from the Mahabharata. It turned out that the documentary deconstructed characters from the epic, including Karna, Duryodhana and Draupadi, who appeared in a new avatar to fight encroachment of a hill.   used folk art forms like therukoothu and instruments like the parai (a traditional drum popular in the state) to convey his perspective on the issue through his 32-minute-long documentary.

 In the film, a multinational company plans to demolish a rock hill in a remote village of Tamil Nadu and plays 'petty' tricks to canvass support from the villagers. A boy who grew up near the hill, which is also the abode of the village god, commits suicide when he hears that the village head had given consent for destroying the hill. The niece of the village head, who happens to be the boy’s friend, then joins the fight against the intervention of outsiders.
 
 “It’s our duty to protect our land. I have used the epic and folk arts like therukoothu to convey a powerful message, and located it within the present context. It was challenging, but I enjoyed the shooting,” said Divakaran, who studied at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune.
 
 The shooting was done in Chengattur, a remote village in Madurantakam. “I wanted to express my view using traditional methods. The idea was to create awareness among people about their land in their own language. Multinational companies have destroyed many Indian villages. We should not allow this to happen. I am planning to screen my documentary across the state so that it reaches more people,” he said.
 
 Divakaran’s brilliant use of the parai in the documentary evokes a sense of belonging towards one’s ancestral property. “The rock hill evoked a sense of identity in the life of every villager. It was part of their daily existence. When the village head decided to destroy it, some went against him. I wanted to warn people about the danger they face,” said Divakaran, who is planning to screen his documentary in Chengattur during Pongal. 
 
 
