GURUGRAM: A city court has refused to release the   of former Haryana minister  , who is facing trial in a case related to the fake voter list scam.

 Kataria has been charged under sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468 and 471 (forgery) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC for allegedly using forged and fake documents to prepare bogus voter lists to win the 2009 assembly election. His passport was impounded by police last year after an FIR was registered at Sector 5 police station.
 
 Out on bail, Kataria filed an application before civil judge (junior division)   on May 19, requesting him to release his passport. In his application, the former minister claimed that his son Nitish had completed his bachelors in law (LLB) from   in Rohtak and that he wanted to take his son abroad for admission to a university for higher studies. 
 
 Hearing the plea, the court then sought replies from police and the state government on the application submitted by the former minister.
 
 In its reply, police requested the court to not release Kataria’s passport. During investigation, it was found that Kataria’s son Nitish had not cleared his bachelor’s degree, and is accused of cheating during exams. “Nitish, who has not cleared his bachelor’s degree, is not eligible for higher studies,” stated the police report.
 
 Taking note of the police report, the court on Tuesday rejected the application and pulled up the former minister for misleading the court.
 
 Kataria could not be contacted for comment. 
 
 As an independent candidate, Kataria had won the Gurgaon seat in the 2009 assembly elections by a thin margin of 2,138 votes. He then lent support to the   Hooda-led Congress government and secured a ministerial berth.
 
 However, his rivals soon filed a suit in court, seeking an examination of the voter list of his constituency. On investigation, a large number of fake names were found on the list, some of whome were relatives of the former minister. The names of his relatives figured in the voter lists of more than three localities.
 
 Apart from Kataria, his relatives, a domestic help, and a few block-level and food and supply department officials are also accused in the case. 
 
 
