NEW DELHI: The festive season and winter break may be over but chronic vacationers need not despair. This year has several  , on an average one every month, which can enable quick getaways for the wanderlust-bitten. 

  Travel companies are stitching up special itineraries around these weekends and Indians are gearing up to kick the demonetisation blues. What's more, all domestic and some leading foreign airlines are running special discount sales and that is nudging people to utilise the god-sent long weekends. 
 
  "There are 12 extended weekends (in 2017). While national holidays like Diwali, Gandhi Jayanti and Christmas fell on a Sunday in 2016, this year promises to be a great one due to the weekend starting or ending with a bank holiday," said Vishal Suri, MD of SOTC Travel which has worked out special "weekend holiday offers". 
 
 
  
 
 In addition to Indian destinations, no-visa destinations or those that offer visa-on-arrival to Indians will also be preferred by Indian travellers," said Suri. 
 
 With the first of this year’s long weekends approaching, tour companies are out to woo travellers. Karan Anand of Cox & Kings said: “This year many are taking Friday, January 27, off and turning their weekend into a four-day vacation. We are experiencing 25% rise in enquiries for this weekend. Around 60% of the travellers are planning a domestic holiday while the rest of them are interested in short-haul international destinations.”
 
 Travel companies say among the favoured destinations for the long R-Day weekend are Auli, Coorg, Vizag with Araku Valley, Pondicherry and Kaziranga National Park. For short-haul overseas vacations, the choicest destinations are Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong-Macau and Thailand.
 
 “Indian domestic travel market is evolving where people freeze their holiday plans months in advance even for short weekend trips. This year, people are favouring air travel over road journeys as it gives them more time to spend at the destination. Recently, some airlines have also announced sale wherein people travelling after January 15 get discount on their tickets. This has helped to reinforce the air travel trend even further,” said Anand.
 
 Airlines are relieved at the long weekends as their business slackens in the lean travel periods of January 15 to mid-April and then from July to September. Almost all Indian carriers are running discount schemes currently.
 
 A Make My Trip official said international airlines like Qatar, Emirates, Etihad, British Airways and Malaysian are offering discounts of up to Rs 10,000 per ticket. 
 
