Amritsar: A day before filing his nomination papers for Gurdaspur Lok Sabha byelection, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has challenged all his major political opponents for an open debate on the issue of performance of the his party’s government in the state.

 While snubbing the political leaders denouncing the Congress government in Punjab, Jakhar, who is a close confidant of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, told TOI on Thursday, “Let there be an open debate between me, BJP president Vijay Sampla, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and AAP Punjab convener Bhagwant Maan on the issues of the state, especially development.”
 
 He said those criticizing the state government were actually hiding their own shortcomings. Stating that the opposition appeared to be in a hurry to evaluate the performance of the Congress government, Jakhar said, “ Nobody puts you through a test in six-months time. Even schools also conduct annual examinations. However, I am sure that the Congress government in Punjab has set an exemplary track record in the past six months.” 
 
 About reports of discontentment among the Congress leadership from Majha for ignoring them by party high command, Jakhar said “Every body has the right to express their views. I believe that the biggest strength of our party (or you may call it weakness) is that we have too many capable, competent and winning candidates, who have worked at booth level and have direct connect with the workers.”
 
 “We don’t go by the strength or weakness of the opponent. We will go by our own agenda, our own track record and policies. The opposition candidate doesn’t make any difference. While every party would try to put their best candidate forward, the Congress is complacent. We will take up unemployment, farmers distress and border area issues. Some of these issues are particular to the border belt,” he said.
 
 4 candidates file papers
 
 Four candidates filed their nomination papers for the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha byelection slated for October 11. Major General Suresh Khajuria (retired) of the AAP filed his nomination while his wife Tripta Kumari filed as the covering candidate. Rajinder Singh and Santosh Kumari also filed their nomination papers on the tickets of Hindustan Shakti Sena and Megh Disham Party, respectively. Earlier on September 19, independent candidate Pardeep Kumar had also filed his papers. Friday is the last date for filing of papers.
 
 
