PUDUCHERRY: Twenty-six students, including four from Karaikal region, who were administered with the measles and rubella vaccine during the mass vaccination campaign in Puducherry, complained of uneasiness and were admitted at government hospitals in the two regions. 

 Twenty-two students from Puducherry were discharged after treatment while four students in Karaikal have been kept under observation.
 
 Director (health and family welfare services) K V Raman while speaking to reporters in the presence of National rural health mission director  , deputy director (public health)   and deputy director (immunization) Murugan on February 7 said the mass vaccination campaign, which kickstarted on February 6, will conclude on February 28. The campaign aims to cover 3.1 lakh children aged between nine months and 15 years in the Union territory.
 
 Raman said the students experienced simple shock due to the pain caused by the needle prick. "We have procured special needles for the mass vaccination campaign. These needles are small and similar to insulin needles. These needles cause minimal pain when compared to the needles supplied by the  ," he said. 
 
 The health department has so far covered more than 60,000 students in the first two days in the Union territory including 49,500 in Puducherry and 8,442 in Karaikal 1,304 in Mahe and 2,179 in Yanam. "Less than 0.1% of the students complained of uneasiness," he said.
 
 He attempted to allay fears pointing out that the   (WHO) and the Union health and family welfare ministry had certified that the vaccines are "safe". He said a few private schools did not create adequate awareness among the students about the importance of the vaccination drive.
 
 Raman while maintaining that the vaccine manufactured by   is completely safe for vaccination, said the vaccine has been under the routine immunisation programme in Puducherry since 2005.
 
 Raman directed the medical officers and health staff members to enlighten the importance of vaccination to dispel misconceptions about the vaccine that have been propagated in the social media.
 
 "Each child should have a MR vaccination card and the targeted children should be vaccinated during the campaign irrespective of previous vaccination received in routine immunisation," he said.
 
 He appealed to people to cooperate with the government in eradicating measles and control congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) by 2020. 
 
 
