India hit back at UN High Commissioner for Human Rights   on Tuesday , a day after he criticised the government on alleged human rights violations vis-a-vis Rohingyas, murder of journalists and cow vigilantism.

 India's envoy to the UN Rajeev Chander said, “There appears to be inadequate appreciation of the freedoms and rights that are guaranteed and practised daily in a vibrant democracy that has been built under challenging conditions. Tendentious judgments made on the basis of selective and even inaccurate reports do not further the understanding of human rights in any society .“
 
 This is not the first time India has had a run-in with Al Hussein. In 2016, he slammed India for denying his team access to visit Jammu & Kashmir. The Pakistani government allowed them access, so his wrath was reserved for India. “I believe an independent, impartial and international mission is now needed crucially and that it should be given free and complete access to establish an objective assessment of the claims made by the two sides,“ he had said.
 
 Earlier this year, India's universal periodic review (UPR) became a battleground, with New Delhi being pilloried for everything from LGBT rights to Hindu nationalism, J&K, NGO financing etc. This prompted the then Indian envoy Ajit Kumar to take a more aggressive stand. He accused   of being “silent“ on Pakistan's sponsorship of terror.“The central problem in Jammu & Kashmir is crossborder terrorism, and hence, we are a little surprised that the high commissioner was silent regarding Pakistan that uses terrorism as an instrument of state policy ,“ Kumar had said.
 
 On Tuesday , Rajeev Chander accused the   chief of ignorance and said, “It is also surprising that individual incidents are being extrapolated to suggest a broader societal situation.India is proud of its independent judiciary , freedom of press, vibrant civil society and respect for rule of law and human rights. A more informed view would have not only recognised this but also noted, for example, that the Prime Minister himself publicly condemned violence in the name of cow protection.“
 
 Chander pointed out that Al Hussein had continued to fail to address the central issue of terrorism in J&K. “Assessments of human rights should not be a matter of political convenience,“ he said.
 
 On Monday, referring to the  , Al Hussein had said, “The minister of state for home affairs has reportedly said that because India is not a signatory to the  , the country can dispense with international law on the matter, together with basic human compassion.“
 
