GREATER NOIDA: A 35-year-old   was shot at by some men, whose identity is not known, at a marketplace in  ,  , on Wednesday evening. 

 Shailesh Kumar, a resident of ATS Paradiso Aldeco in Sector Chi 4, took a bullet in his neck and is critical now, the police said on Thursday.
 
 The police said what triggered the attack was not clear while ruling out loot as a possible reason behind the murder attempt. Family members refused to talk to the media.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed that Shailesh had gone for shopping to the Kasna market on Wednesday evening. Some unidentified men fired at him soon after he came out of Honey Money Top, a grocery store, around 8.30pm and was trying to keep his bags inside his Maruti Ciaz. 
 
 Rahul Malik, a B Tech student at  , who was passing by, was the first one to spot Shailesh lying in a pool of blood, barely 50 metres from the shop. 
 
 “I was going to a friend’s place at   when I found him lying on the road. He was unconscious with blood oozing out of his neck. His brown car was parked near him,” Rahul said. With the help of some local people, Rahul put Shailesh in his car and drove him to Yatharth hospitals, Greater Noida, where doctors referred him to the hospital chain’s Noida centre for better care. 
 
 “He was critical as the bullet was stuck in the neck. Thus, he was referred to Yatharth hospitals, Noida, where doctors performed a surgery and removed the bullet. The patient is currently admitted to ICU,” said Gul Mohammad, spokesperson for Yatharth hospitals.
 
 The police are yet to find any vital lead in the incident. Avnish Dixit, SHO Kasna police station, said the incident took place in a market place yet no eyewitness had come forward. Also, there was only one CCTV camera installed near the spot, but it failed to capture the firing. Further, the goods he had bought and the car were intact at the spot, ruling out loot as a possible reason behind the attack.
 
 “Family members have lodged a complaint, but have not named any person as suspect. We have begun investigation and hope to arrest the culprits soon,” Dixit said.
 
