NAGPUR: A day after claiming anomalies in evaluation,   (English) third semester students on Saturday said that only one or none has passed in at least two subjects in top city colleges. They also alleged that one of the colleges where students are from Hindi or Marathi background have recorded unexpectedly high scores. They have based their claim after personally visiting these colleges to garner support.

 However, Controller of Examinations   trashed the claims citing exam data of 23% pass percentage. But, the students countered this saying the ‘20th Century Amercian Literature’ is an optional subject and even if all failed in it the result would still be 23%. “Students can opt for European Fiction or African American Literature if they don’t want to offer ‘20th Century Amercian Literature’. At one college, we found no student offered the latter,” students said.
 
 “Around 25 students had visited the exam section on Saturday with a request to conduct revaluation of the paper. But, we were told to bring at least 50% representation,” the students said.
 
 Khaty confirmed that the students had approached him but he told them that there’s no provision as per rules to revaluate the papers on the basis of a handful of complaints. 
 
 In 2012, the   had decided to consider re-evaluation only if 50% or more results were affected. “They can opt for individual re-evaluation of papers and we would ensure that the results are declared early. But, it is not possible for the university to do mass revaluation,” Khaty said.
 
 On Friday, TOI had reported that the students cried foul after they failed in ‘20th Century Amercian Literature’. Many of them were baffled to find that they had failed since they had done pretty well in other subjects. 
 
 An associate professor of English said it was disturbing to discover that so many students couldn’t clear the subject as it was not really a difficult one. “As far as my students are concerned, they appeared pretty comfortable with the paper. It does have two pretty tough texts, Howl and Daughters. But nothing unmanageable,” she said.
 
