NEW DELHI:   MPs and senior leaders will each spend a day in a   constituency between April 6 and 14, to educate its cadre about a host of issues ranging from the achievements of the   government in the last three years, to the highlights and benefits of the Goods and Services Tax, the gains of forming a National Commission for Socially and Educationally Backward Class (NCSEBC) and the Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) app.
 
  The party’s central office bearers have been engaged in chalking out the itinerary of the MPs and senior leaders for this week. The party has identified 120 Lok Sabha seats that it had lost in 2014 general elections but feels it can improve its electoral prospects in these constituencies in the long run.
  
  Senior party leaders and ministers are being sent to these seats. The BJP MPs from the two Houses of Parliament will spend a day in any one constituency assigned to them by the party. The dates chosen for this exercise too has a context. While April 6 is the foundation day of the BJP, April 14 is the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B RAmbedkar.
  
  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not be part of this plan while External Affairs Minister   has been kept out due to health reasons. BJP chief Amit Shah will be in Hyderabad, Home Minister   will spend a day in Kolkata South, Textile Minister   in Kolkata North and Amethi, Finance Minister   in Bangalore Rural, Roads Minister   in Nizamabad, Water Resources Minister Uma Bharti in Howrah, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in Hooghly, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar in Mehboobnagar, Health Minister J P Nadda in Trissur, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Guna, Power Minister Piyush Goyal in Rohtak and Minister of State for External Affairs Gen (retd.) V K Singh in Rae Bareli.
  
  BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav (Madhepura), Ram Madhav (Karimganj), Kailash Vijayvargiya (Silchar) and Anil Jain (Ferozabad) are some of the office bearers being deployed. The BJP MPs and senior leaders will interact with groups of party booth workers in the constituency concerned. Shakti Kendra Sammellans will be held in every seat where the party workers will be informed about the achievements of the Modi government, how GST will help the people and the usefulness of the  ," a senior party leader said.
  
  Each Shakti Kendra of BJP comprises party booth workers from 10 booths in a Lok Sabha seat. Each MP will hold a press conference and a meeting with the intelligentsia of the area as well. The purpose behind this exercise is to educate the cadre and ask them to further propagate the party ideology and achievements to the masses.
  
  The idea behind propagating the BHIM app is also to reach out to the Dalit voters. The name of the app has been chosen keeping this section of the electorate in mind.
  
