In Lucknow recently for a two-day trip, filmmaker   made the most of his visit. The 'Highway' director not only visited his favourite eating joints in that city, Tundey kababi and Netram kachori-wala in Aminabad, he also shopped for chikan clothes in Chowk. "I went to Tundey and Netram both and managed to eat at both places. I’ve also got some kebabs packed to take back home. These are places that I never miss going to whenever I am in Lucknow," said Imtiaz when we met him at Humsafar, an NGO for women victims of domestic violence.

  
  Imtiaz served Chowk’s famous jalebis and khasta- aaloo to the lady drivers as well (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui
 
 
  Ali visited the NGO to meet the lady   drivers he had met last year, when he was invited as a guest to a function organized to felicitate these women and gift them an e-rickshaw each. The lady rickshaw drivers, happy and excited to meet the 'Jab We Met' director, were completely floored when Ali laid out a plate full of khasta-aloo and jalebi for each of them and offered it to them. "Itne bade director sahib hamein plate laga ke de rahe hain, aisa maine kabhi nahin socha tha," said Lalita, one of the lady drivers with whom Imtiaz later went for a joyride. 
 
  Another one offered to take Imtiaz on a tour of the city in her rickshaw on his next visit to Lucknow. "Ab bas main chahti hoon ki agli baar aap Lucknow aayein toh hum aapko Lucknow ghumayen," said an elated Pushpa. On being asked by Ali about her life, Pushpa proudly said, "Main bahut khush hoon, apne bachchon ko ab khud padha rahi hoon. Ab main life mein aur aage jaana chahti hoon." Having gone around town in a cab this time, Imtiaz was kicked about the idea of going around the city in an e-rickshaw driven by one of these lady drivers, whom he was happy to know now number more than a dozen. 
 
  He promised the ladies he'd travel in their e-rickshaws on his next visit to Lucknow and said, "Abki main aaunga toh aapke saath hi Lucknow ghoomunga."
 
  
  Imtiaz showing a selfie to the ladies which he’d clicked with them (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui
 
 
  Ali got several selfies clicked with the women and later told us, "I have immense respect for all these women. When I'd come last year and seen them, they were these scared, shy women and so unsure of themselves. And today when I see them, I am surprised. Last time, there was this show they had done in which each one of them had enacted and narrated their own life story. That was very impressive because it was in the nukkad natak style and when all of them were enacting it, I was deeply moved. They are so inspiring. When you know about them and know what they have gone through and emerged stronger and more confident through it all, that makes you feel strong. Jisko aap achhe se, nazdeek se dekhte ho, toh uske liye aur strong feeling aati hai. I'm so happy that they’ve all come to meet me today because they all work. They have taken out time from their work just to meet me and that is indeed a very humbling experience. I am so happy to see them now, they look so happy and that’s because they are financially independent. That happiness of prosperity is evident on their faces."
 
  
  
 
  Ask Imtiaz if the story of any one of these women inspires him to make a film, and he says, "I don’t want to sound boring in anything that I do. I think that is against the concept of the entertainment that I have to be a part of or I’d like to be a part of. But the point is, I think it is also disservice if you have a movie that is about people in grief etc, that sounds really boring. I myself wouldn’t go to watch a movie like that. And there's a general positivity in the outlook of women. I have that personally because of my values in life or just the women that have been around me when I was a child. I think that might be finding its way into the films that I make. So in a way, I want to celebrate women and not highlight their misery."
 
  
  
 
  Celebrate women? "Yes of course! Women are smarter than men, I’ll say that. It’s always easier to communicate with them because somehow, they are also less guarded. So it’s always easier for me to talk to them – rather, I’d say it’s more fun. Maybe that’s a male thing, you know. It’s always more entertaining and fun to be with women. It’s just a different feeling when you’re with men. So in a woman, I see so many dimensions that I am inadvertently attracted towards that character and I am tempted to celebrate that smartness and that openness. It comes out of my interest. It’s my interest in women that makes me shape their characters well in my movies," he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Imtiaz enjoying the khasta-aloo and jalebi he got from Chowk (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui
 
 
  Does he plan to make a film in UP, what with the state winning the National Award for the Most Film Friendly State and with so many filmmakers coming to shoot here? "I have heard of the UP film policy, though I don’t know much about it. But I guess they have some kind of rebate that they give to filmmakers because back in Mumbai, there were some filmmakers who were talking about it and thinking of making a film in UP. The prospects are quite good where shooting in UP is concerned. I’m thinking of coming here to shoot. I was going around Lucknow and I am kind of opening my eyes towards UP and also towards what Lucknow has to offer. My trips here have been so short that I really have not understood anything, honestly. I have only heard about it (Lucknow) and would like to see more of it before I think of setting a story here. I like to be familiar with a place before I set a movie there so that I can get the feel and nuance of the place right, so that my story and the characters fit in perfectly and don’t seem out of place. So Lucknow can’t be ignored, I feel. There’s so much ‘story’ about Lucknow. Life is short, but I’d like to get into it at some point and shoot a film here," said Imtiaz. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
