COIMBATORE: A life term convict who has been suffering from Systemic Lupus Erythmatosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease, was shifted to the   and Hospital (CMCH) from a   here on Saturday night. 

 He was being treated at the private hospital since 2012 and the prison authorities paid more than Rs 8 lakh as hospital bills. But the treatment cost is said to have touched Rs 30 lakh and finally the Madras high court ordered that he be transferred to the CMCH.
 
 The convict prisoner I Abu Dhahir, 34, who was a member of the banned Al-Umma outfit, was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for involvement in the 1998 serial   in Coimbatore city. He completed the sentences in prison. Meanwhile, he was sentenced to life term by a Madurai court in 2003 for murdering assistant jailor   in Madurai in August 29, 1997.
 
 According to police, the SLE disease affected Abu Dhahir’s heart and both kidneys. He was surviving on dialysis.   was being treated in the CMCH and was getting treatment from a private hospital. Later, his health condition improved and he was shifted to the Coimbatore Central Prison. His condition became critical and he was immediately shifted to the CMCH from the prison hospital on November 24, 2011. 
 
 Abu Dhahir’s relatives approached the Madras high court, seeking treatment for him in a private hospital. The state government appealed against the petition and a high level committee headed by the collector and a team of doctors examined Abu Dhahir’s health status and submitted a detailed report to the state government in June 2012. 
 
 After both kidneys failed, Abu Dhahir’s health condition worsened and the CMCH doctors recommended treatment in a specialised centre for kidney transplant. He was has been in a private hospital in the city since 2012 and his health condition improved. The prison authorities paid Rs 8 lakhs for the treatment and the hospital claimed that the treatment cost has touched Rs 30 lakh. 
 
 Meanwhile, the private hospital approached the Madras high court and the court passed an interim order directing the prison department authorities to shift Abu Dhahir to the CMCH from the prison hospital on Monday. Following the court order, he was shifted to CMCH by the prison authorities with the help of city police and he was admitted in the IMC ward of the CMCH. 
 
 The court also directed the private hospital management to submit the pending bill details to the court.
 
