At the stalls near this popular sweets shop in Sadar, each cup of tea comes with some local wisdom.

 “I think the alliance between Congress and   will not benefit the parties. This time,   will form government in the state,“ says a middle-aged man sipping tea on a windy evening.
 
 Though his comment seems to upset many at the tea stall, nobody intervenes before he says “Akhilesh Yadav has paid attention on infrastructural development but work needs to be done in the education and employment sectors. Besides, no work has been done in villages. We still have to leave our families back home and migrate to a metropolitan city in search of a good job.“
 
 Soon, a young man joins the discussion. “I think Akhilesh should be given another chance so that this time he can prove his political proficiency in these sectors,“ he says, adding, “When he could start the Metro in less than five years and develop the river front, he sure can multiply employment prospects.“
 
 “But what about the crime rate in the state?“ in terrupts a college student.
 
 “I think crime rate was at an equal level during BJP's reign too,“ comes a strong voice.
 
 Two people have just joined the conversation. “Law and order was best during BSP's rule. But Behenji doesn't deserve a chance because of her ruthless attitude,“ says one of them.
 
 Soon the discussion heats up, with anxious voters joining in, jostling for space. There is no space on the benches any more and many people are standing, clutching their cups of tea. Everyone has some opinion on who will be the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Will Rita   be able to emerge victorious from Cantt on a BJP ticket?
 
 Will the alliance between Samajwadi Party and Congress give a second innings to Congress? Will BJP be able to successfully play its Modi card again?
 Questions resonate and the answers come from within the group.
 
 While a lot of people voice their support for the young CM of the state, there are many who back BJP. “Be it the bold step of demonetization or allying with other nations, Modi is a pro at politics, I believe in him and will vote for the party irrespective of the candidate,“ says another participant.
 
