Traditionally, a woman is expected to move from her parents’ home to her husband’s house. But the dynamic city is witnessing a change when it comes to the living arrangement of young,  . Many of them are now choosing to move out of their parents’ house and move into their own space for a number of reasons, the biggest being the need for freedom.

 
 
  (29),   (33) and   (23) all lived away from their   when they were studying. Having gotten used to a certain way of life, things didn’t quite feel the same when they moved back in with their parents. They shared a good relationship with their folks, but sought their own living space. “Going back to your parents’ house after having tasted freedom, you assume that things would have changed. But when I went back home after having lived in a PG, it was back to square one. They always questioned where I was going and what I was doing. I understand that we are answerable to someone at the end of the day, but I prefer to be answerable to myself. My job has no set timings. I like going to events and didn’t want to restrict myself just because I had a curfew. I did have to fight to move out, but my parents and I were civil about it,” says Elizabeth.
 
  
  
 
 
 When it comes to women  , safety becomes a big concern. “The city is not as safe as you would assume. There have been times when I have had to be a little more cautious because I am alone. I have two cats, and am thinking about getting a dog as there is a question mark when it comes to safety,” says Swetha. But Elizabeth feels that all it takes is awareness. “I am not afraid of going back home at night; security has never been an issue with me. Obviously, when you look for a house, you look for a locality that is safe. And you ensure that the doors are locked all the time,” she says.
 
 
 
 Moving out means taking care of all your expenses. This can mean cutting down on certain luxuries. Elizabeth had to wait six months to be able to afford WiFi. Lisha has a budget and chooses to spend money on rent and electricity, instead of on shopping and in restaurants. “I prioritize my spending. When you live by yourself, the need to socialize changes — earlier, I would want to go out and spend time with friends at a café/bar, but after getting my own space, I invite people home instead. The main intention is to catch up, which you can do at home,” she says.
 
  
  
 
 
 While Elizabeth thought that breaking away from her folks would result in a strained relationship, the opposite turned out to be true. “At the end of a busy day, when you go back home, you are strained and irritated, and don’t bother asking how others at home are doing. But now, because I’m not around, my parents and I make it a point to meet,” she says. Lisha adds, “It’s helped my relationship with my parents. Now, we talk about more important things, and don’t bicker about mundane issues like bathroom schedules. This has made our bond firmer.”
 
  
  
 
 
 After losing her father and grandparents at an early age,   (30) chose to live by herself instead of moving in with her mother and siblings. She’s been living by herself since she was 17, but it’s been a bumpy ride for her. “Staying alone is not easy. With freedom comes many responsibilities, and if you don’t know how to tame your freedom, then there can be issues. Some of my friends use me as an example to move out of their parents’ homes, but I discourage them. They have loving parents, but want to get out in the name of freedom. If you can’t handle being alone, then the negatives of living by yourself tend to outweigh the positives,” Rupa says, adding, “Paying bills, cooking and doing your laundry makes you an organized person, but if you are responsible, you can do all that while living with your parents.”
 
