PUDUCHERRY: Union minister of state (health and family welfare) Faggan Singh Kulaste will inaugurate a   at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) in   and healthcare institutions in South Asia and South East Asian countries during the foundation day celebrations of Jipmer on Thursday in the institute.

 Jipmer and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec), an international organization comprising South Asia and South East Asian countries, established the telemedicine facility to bridge the gap in healthcare services among member countries which include Bangladesh, India, Myanmar,  , Thailand, Bhutan and Nepal.
 
 The network assumed significance as some healthcare issues are specific to Bimstec countries with a 1.5 billion population constituting roughly 22% of the global population. Disparities exist when it comes to access and quality of healthcare facilities between the urban and rural regions in these countries. Moreover, member countries face an acute shortage of trained specialists in peripheral regions. 
 
 Hence, Jipmer launched the initiative to utilize telemedicine services and bridge the gap in healthcare access between urban and rural regions in these countries, said Jipmer director S C Parija. The Union external affairs ministry approved the concept note for the telemedicine network, named the ‘Jipmer Bimstec’ telemedicine network (JBTN), prepared by Parija and telemedicine team. The Union health and family welfare ministry also approved the network, which is supported by the National Knowledge Network. 
 
 Bimstec is an important aspect of the the Union government’s ‘Act East’ policy envisioned by prime minister Narender Modi.
 
 High commissioner of Bangladesh to India Syed  , deputy high commissioner of Sri Lanka in Southern India Vadivel Krishnamoorthy, representatives from Bimstec countries, Jipmer president   and medical superintendent J Balachander will participate in function. 
 
