GURUGRAM: Sister  , a social worker who ran  , an  , for nearly two decades before it was shut down earlier this year, has been booked on charges of illegally handing over two children for adoption, and for “cruel treatment” of inmates at the orphanage.

 Police said the case was registered after two teenaged girls, who were shifted from Ujjwal Niketan to another shelter home, testified in front of a magistrate. Ujjwal Niketan was shut down after successive raids by the child welfare committee (CWC) last November and this February. Baretto was accused on two counts by the CWC — “poor living conditions” at Ujjwal Niketan and breaking adoption laws in handing over two girls, aged 5 and 7, to a couple from Mangalore in 2016.
 
 She was also accused of promoting Christianity because the Mangaloreans were a Christian couple but the children they adopted were Hindus. The couple returned the children to the CWC this February. Yet, just four years ago, in 2013, Baretto won an award from the district administration for her work in the field of child care and rehabilitating orphaned kids.
 
 The teenaged girls, on whose complaint Baretto has been booked, were brought up by the  . They moved to Aarushi, another care home, from the Sector 4 orphanage after it was shut down. Police spokesperson Ravinder Singh said the magistrate received a complaint from the girls — aged 17 and 13 — who testified that the management of Ujjwal Niketan had been harassing them. The girls are also believed to have said they were made to do menial work during their stay at the home. They also told police they were moved to Goa and Delhi.
 
 The investigation against Baretto and the orphanage started after allegations that she had handed over two children to the Mangalore couple without consulting the CWC. Baretto had told TOI in March she had only facilitated the adoption. She had dismissed the allegations against her as fabricated and said she was being targeted by the CWC.
 
 After the CWC’s charges, additional deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh set up a probe team headed by the secretary of the District Legal Services Authority.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Singh said on Thursday the team had found some irregularities pertaining to illegally housing the two girls in the orphanage, and not maintaining records. He said in light of these findings, it was recommended that the shelter should not continue its operations and a communication had also been sent to the women and child development ministry for the facility to be deregistered.
 
 Singh, however, denied any knowledge of the girls being made to do menial work at the orphanage, as the police claimed. Baretto could not be contacted on Thursday for a comment.
 
 The case has been registered under sections 75 (punishment for cruelty to a child) and 80 (punitive measures for adoption without following prescribed procedures) of the Juvenile Justice Act on Wednesday at Sector 9A police station.
 
 Ujjwal Niketan was started in 1994 with 14 kids in a New Colony house and shifted to its current address in 2000. It had 22 children when it was shut down. Baretto, a Mangalorean who used to teach slum kids in Delhi, around Gol Dak Khana, before moving to Gurugram, had told TOI in March, “I have been running this shelter for over 20 years and this what I get in return for doing good. It has all come as a shock.” She had also said the girls she had brought up had told her they were desperate to come back and were distressed at having been shifted.
 
