LA PAZ: They slip it through your door. It's a tiny little note on the heavy hotel carpeting which reads - first in Spanish and then the guest language English - that both, the city downtown and the access to the airport, will be closed for the day because of the 'DAKAR event'. "We recommend that you take your forecasts when you leave the hotel," adds the pithy bulletin.

 The idea of forecasts is a funny thing in the current context of La Paz. Nestled in the Altiplano of the Andes, the world's highest capital city, a mix of Ladakh and Shimla ­ at 3,600m above sea level ­ is gloomy one moment, sunny and bright the next, a typical subtropical highland southern hemisphere summer. The winters are dry and the summers are cold and wet, the temperatures hovering around 15 degrees Celsius. You go to bed to the sound of gently falling rain and wake up to it. In between, the sun breaks through as and when it catches its fancy, which is rare. So no one in   seems to bother about forecasts. Life goes on, rain or shine.
 
 It's not as uncomplicated though in the higher and colder reaches of Oruro. For, in the steppe-like conditions of Oruro, south-west of La Paz, the cold and rain has been unrelenting. Almost as if a siege that found itself running into bad weather, as reports were last coming in on Friday, Special Stage 5 of the Dakar was terminated at the 292 km mark because of bad weather in Bolivia. Many of the support staff and accredited media were heard heading for the 'warmer' confines of La Paz, finding friends for last-minute accommodation and a warm meal. Bad weather has marked the   leg of this year's Dakar ­ the icy rain and cold in sharp contrast to the sweltering heat that the participants encountered in the opening leg of Paraguay. The crucial fifth stage of the   running from Tupiza to Oruro, a run of 692 km, of which the timed section of 447 km would have tested the riders with varying terrain and tricky navigational challenges. The sudden change in elements and the stern examination it is asking of the participants instantly marks out the Dakar as the toughest race in the world.
 
 The Hero MotoSports Team Rally riders,   and  , showed ample amount of grit and skills. Rodrigues, starting the stage at 17th place, completed the abridged stage in 2 hour 48 minutes and 36 seconds. It put him in 11th place in the day's classification and 11th place in the overall provisional general standings. "Today's stage was very difficult because of the rain on the real fast tracks on the piste that made it very slippery," said Rodrigues Santosh finished the stage with a time of 3 hour 42 minutes and 37 seconds that pushed him up to 62nd in the day's standing and placing him in 70th place in the overall. 
 
 Earlier, there was no let up for the riders in the 416-km fourth competitive stage that ran from San Salvador Jujuy to Tupiza in Bolivia. Rodrigues displayed exemplary sportsmanship when he stopped twice to call in the medical evacuation helicopter to the rescue of two riders who had crashed. Though it affected his rhythm, the Portuguese rider ended in 32nd place for the day and 18th in the provisional overall. After a forgettable third stage, Santosh had his task cut out. The one-hour time penalty for missing a waypoint had put him way back down the starting order. Santosh completed the timed special in 6 hours 41 minutes 43 seconds that put him in 71st place, a recovery of 33 places over his starting position of 104.
 
