AURANGABAD: Thousands of Marathwada passengers commuting to Nashik and Mumbai have a reason to cheer as the South Central Railway (SCR) will shortly start a new train between Nanded and the state capital via Aurangabad.

 The train will start as a special train on an experimental basis and will be converted into a regular train based on the feedback.
 
 A K Sinha, divisional railway manager (DRM) for the SCR, Nanded division, said that although Nanded division manages other   with the state capital as destination and passing through Marathwada cities, the new Mumbai-bound train will be the first to be maintained by this division. 
 
 The Central Railway (CR) authorities, which were earlier reluctant to start the new to train to Mumbai from Nanded division owing to certain saturation issues on railway tracks, have given a go-ahead for running the additional train as issues have resolved following the necessary follow-up, he told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 The train will run as a weekly express on an experimental basis and may be operated on a weekly basis based on the response from the passengers. With a minimum of 12 coaches, the last stop will either be   (LTT) or   railway station in Mumbai. 
 
 “Modalities regarding functioning of train such as timing and stoppages will be worked out shortly. The train will most probably end at LTT considering saturation issues,” Sinha said, adding that necessary details would be made public in the next few weeks. 
 
 The new third pit-line commissioned at Nanded, last year, is believed to have enabled the Nanded division to run Express trains to Mumbai. Considered to have a great impact on junction’s ability of handling trains, pit-line is basically a facility for carrying out inspection and routine maintenance work of carriage parts of trains. 
 
 Railway officials said that the new train is expected to reduce the passenger load from the existing trains reaching Mumbai via Aurangabad and Nashik. 
 
 Railway activist Rajkumar Somani said that the new train to Mumbai via Aurangbad was a long-pending demand. “The Tapovan Express and   witnesses heavy rush every day. It is a very common sight to see that the passengers cannot occupy their reserved seats due to the crowd. Even senior citizens and women having small children avoid these trains due to heavy rush,” he said.
 
 “Somani said new train should depart from Aurangabad at either noon or by 8 pm. The time-table should be designed in keeping with timing of existing trains,” he said. 
 
 Vikas Harpalkar, who frequently travels between Aurangabad and Mumbai, said that the new train would be a great relief to passengers. “Let us hope that the train gets pressed into operation soon,” he said. 
 
