VISAKHAPATNAM: The tourism and cultural fest   is being held from February 3-5 on RK Beach. Organised by the AP Tourism department and supported by Vuda and GVMC, several   are slated to be held during the event.

 This year, thrust has been given on adventure and water sports off RK Beach to popularise these sports in Vizag. The main attractions include speed boat, jet ski, quad biking, bungee jumping, all-terrain vehicles, and paragliding (depending on the weather and wind conditions).
 
 “Interest in these sports and adventure activities is growing among the public, specially the youth and children. Visakhapatnam district is also endowed with hills, seas and beaches, making it feasible for adventure sports such as paragliding, scuba diving, bungee jumping and so on. In Araku alone, there are three sites suitable for paragliding while open water scuba diving courses are held near Thotlakonda,” said Balaram Naidu, coordinator for water sports in Visakha Utsav and director of Live in Adventures.
 
 Meanwhile, for Visakha Utsav, several activities have been lined up across the 2 km stretch on the beach front. Quad biking has been arranged for visitors to race across the sands. Beach volleyball and kite festival has also been arranged along the sea shore. LED kites would light up the sky in the evenings. In the amusement area, various amusement items such as giant wheels, merry-go-round, break dance, are in place as one finds in traditional fairs. Besides, food courts and stalls have been put up where cuisine from different parts of the country will be available.
 
 A stage or vedika has been set up for cultural programmes including performances by Baba Sehgal, Swetha Pandit, comedy skits, music concert by Tollywood singers and music director  . At a separate arena opposite Hotel Novotel, Jatara showcasing tribal and traditional folk dances from various districts of AP as well as from neighbouring states would be held. Visitors can also witness the colourful tribal and folk art here.
 
 The show will kickstart with a grand carnival in the form of a huge procession from YMCA to NTR statue, where around 20,000 people from different backgrounds including students, dancers from several dance school, police band and tribals would take part.
 
 The main attractions include speed boat, jet ski, quad biking, bungee jumping, all-terrain vehicles, and paragliding (depending on the weather and wind conditions)
 
