NEW DELHI:   raised the matter of unification of the three   in Parliament on Wednesday. He claimed the city was suffering after the   of the erstwhile MCD as the revenue share was not uniformly divided among the civic bodies.

 “The erstwhile Congress government had trifurcated MCD, which resulted in a financial mess. East Delhi is suffering because of the trifurcation as it gets a small portion of the total revenue share. It needs more funds as a large number of unauthorised colonies and slums come under its jurisdiction. Due to the financial crisis, the civic body is unable to pay workers on time, leading to frequent strikes,” Girri told TOI. “Unification of the corporations is the only solution.”
 
 In the Lok Sabha, Girri highlighted the problem of multiplicity of authorities in the city. “Waterlogging is a serious problem. While corporations are responsible for small drains, government has to clean the bigger ones. Since the latter is unable to clean the big drains, the smaller ones get choked,” added Girri. 
 
 The trifurcation of MCD that took place in 2012 had made north and east corporations financially weaker than their southern counterpart due to uneven distribution of assets. Both north and east civic bodies have been struggling to release salaries to their employees for the past two years. There have been multiple strikes by the sanitation staff during this period.
 
 According to civic officials, while unification is necessary, there is also a need to implement the recommendations of the  . “Before the trifurcation happened, nobody could anticipate that the situation would turn so worse. There is a need to increase revenue generation and implement the fourth DFC’s report to strengthen the financial condition of both the corporations,” said a senior official from the east corporation.
 
 Experts claim that at the time trifurcation, the Delhi government should have provided financial assistance to the east civic body as it was the weakest among the three. “In east Delhi, there are hardly any A-category colonies. Even for advertisements, charges are different for east and south Delhi. The Delhi government should have given some financial aid to the east corporation at the initial stage,” said Rakesh Mehta, former MCD commissioner. “While implementation of fourth DFC report is a must, fifth finance commission should have been constituted by now.” 
 
 Councillors from AAP don’t seem to be happy about the idea of unification. Ramesh Matiala, leader of the opposition in the south corporation, said, “Unification is not the answer for the current problem. It’s a complete failure of BJP. Despite winning the civic polls this year, it has done nothing in the past three months for the people.”
 
 
