JAIPUR: After common man now a senior   with a rank of additional chief secretary (ACS) with the state government became   of a  . A conman posing as a banker from the Secretariat-situated State   and Jaipur (SBBJ) branch made multiple calls for a week, sought details of Mohanty's debit card and siphoned off nearly Rs 2.73 lakh from his account. 

 The officer on Monday lodged an FIR at Ashok Nagar police station and police said they have identified the accused. This happened despite the fact that Jaipur police had arrested almost 11 persons last fortnight who were running such gangs. Police have been appealing to the public not to share information related to debit and credit cards.
 
 According to the police, Mohanty got the first call on March 23 and the final call came on April 1. During this period, he did not initially realize that his money was being siphoned off.
 
 "The caller did not make a vague call. He was specific and stated that he was calling from the Secretariat-situated branch of SBBJ. The officer was told that his card was to be blocked and he would be issued a new card. He was asked to share the ATM card number which is on the front and CVV number which is on the back of the debit card. Mohanty, considering it to be a genuine call, shared the details," said a senior police officer of Ashok Nagar police station on Tuesday.
 
 Police said that Mohanty had no idea that he was being cheated as the caller made at least five other calls and always asked these details and the one-time password (OTP) coming on his mobile.
 
 When contacted, Mohanty, said, "They made multiple calls to me over phone. I have sought help of police by registering an FIR and given them details of my saving account."
 
 Police said that preliminary investigation and technical surveillance suggested that the caller is from Jamtara district of Jharkhand. 
 
 "We have been busting gangs from Jharkhand involved in this act. Hopefully, we will get a clear picture and nail down the culprit," a senior official said.
 
 When contacted, Vikas Pathak, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said, "Our team is on the job. We have got some concrete clues on the whereabouts of the accused. Our men are trying to work it out soon."
 
 According to sources, a team was already rushed to Jamtara by the Jaipur police commissionerate. "The recent arrests were fruitful in taking us closer to solve this case as well," said an official.
 
 Police said that the conmen these days ask the victims to share number on the front of the ATM card and CVV number. 
 
 "These details are required for online shopping. First they do the shopping by using details of somebody else's debit and credit card and then they ask the company to cancel their order. After cancellation they give other saving bank address and IFSC code to get the money credited. They also have people who lend them their accounts for illegal transfers," a senior official of crime branch said.
 
 It may be recalled that the crime branch had maintained that Rajasthan has been a soft target for these conmen as in 2016 people of all 33 districts in the state became victims of this kind of fraud.
 
 
