PUNE: The city escaped the   on Thursday with the maximum   by two degrees but   in the air made the  

 At 37.3°C, Pune should have felt much cooler. But the humidity levels on Thursday morning peaked to 69%, almost 6% above normal level. The normal morning humidity is 63%.
 
 Power shutdown for maintenance added to the discomfort factor but the rising humidity made the situation worse.
 
 No wonder then that a private weather forecasting agency pegged Pune’s ‘real feel’ or apparent temperature at 43°C as it seemed hotter than it really was. High levels of humidity in the air coupled with high temperatures made for a very oppressive day.
 
 On Thursday evening, the humidity touched 44%, against a normal of 41%.
 
 An India Meteorological Department official said, “Thursday morning was cloudy. Cloudy skies play a significant role in pushing up humidity levels. The current period is that of transition from the hot weather season to monsoon, which starts in June. Transition periods are often characterised by hot and sultry conditions.”
 
 Another Met department official told TOI that the westerly component in the winds blowing over the region had increased. 
 
 “A couple of days ago, winds coming into the city were more northerly in nature, which had pushed the city’s temperature up to 40°C. Northerly winds blow from the land regions and are hot and dry in nature. However, now the winds are more westerly and are coming from the Arabian Sea. These winds are bringing in quite a bit of moisture with them, which is pushing down the temperature but increasing the humidity in the air,” the official said.
 
 Mercury dipped by two degrees in Lohegaon also on Thursday, where day temperature stood at 38°C.
 
 Day temperatures in Vidarbha, however, continued to peak with Chandrapur, Brahmpuri, Akola, Buldhana and Yavatmal currently recording the highest temperature in the state.
 
 Chandrapur’s temperature on Thursday was 47°C and was the highest recorded temperature in the state.
 
 Maximum temperatures were appreciably above normal — 3.1°C to 5°C — at a few locations over Vidharbha and at isolated places in  
 
 At noon on Thursday, temperatures of more than 40°C were recorded at most places over Vidarbha, several places over Marathwada as well as at a few places over Madhya Maharashtra.
 
 In the face of the increasing temperatures across the region, the India Meteorological Department has once again sounded a heat wave alert in isolated stations around Vidarbha on May 26. The temperatures might soar above normal.
 
