CHENNAI: A Dubai-based NRI’s big ticket land-buying spree in the National Capital Region (NCR), Faridabad and Palwal districts of Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu has caught the attention of Enforcement Directorate ( ) which has registered money laundering cases against him and has also impounded his passport. A lookout circular (LOC) too had been issued against the person identified as Cheruvathur Chakkutty Thampi (C C Thampi) of Pazhanji in Trichur district of Kerala.

 However, the man has now won two rounds of litigations in the Madras high court against the ED. While a single judge ordered release of his impounded passport, a division bench has directed the ED to return the passport and revoked the lookout circular. 
 
 Referring to Thampi’s cooperation to investigation of cases, the bench said he should be allowed to travel out of India and that in case the ED required his presence for inquiry it should give him a notice, at least three weeks in advance.
 
 According to the ED, Holiday City Centre Pvt Ltd was acquiring huge tracts of agriculture lands, and the only source of fund was a loan from its   director, Thampi. 
 
 As on March 31, 2013, the loan amount provided by Thampi was Rs 40.87 crore which was subsequently converted as his equity investment resulting into the transfer of 99% shareholding of the company to him. The ED initiated the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) proceedings against him.
 
 Based on the lookout circular opened against him, officials of the Bureau of Immigration detained him at Chennai airport on December 22, 2016. The ED recorded his statements under Section 37 of FEMA, 1999 read with Section 131 of Income Tax Act, 1961. 
 
 He offered to submit the details of assets, properties and bank account details in respect of companies owned or partially owned by him in India and abroad and details of bank accounts and properties in his name and his wife’s name within 10 days. 
 
 His passport bearing No Z3313067 issued from Dubai on November 26, 2015 was impounded for 90 days. Further summons for his personal appearance before the ED on December 26, 2016 for interrogation and submission of required documents was also issued. However, he sought adjournment for a month due to the demise of his sister. Considering his prayer, appearance was adjourned to January 16, 2017.
 
 It was in the meantime that Thampi moved the high court for suspending the LOC issued against him, seeking permission to allow his counsel and auditor during the interrogation and releasing his passport 
 
 He appeared before the ED on January 15 and 23 and gave statements that neither he nor any of his company, which had purchased agricultural lands in NCR, Haryana and Kerala, had made any application to concerned department for change in land use. 
 
 He neither informed RBI nor his company sought any permission for converting the unsecured loan into equity. He sold agricultural lands and earned profit. The entire fund for purchasing the land was sourced from his NRE accounts. He undertook to furnish details of his bank accounts in or outside India, details of assets and bank accounts of his companies in India and details of bank accounts of his overseas companies on next date of hearing.
 
 However, on January 24, Justice B Rajendran allowed Thampi’s writ petition and quashed ED’s orders impounding his passport. The judge further directed the ED to handover the passport to him after withdrawing the lookout circular.
 
 The present appeals were filed by the ED, which said investigation process was at a crucial stage and Thampi was yet to handover certain documents. If the passport is handed over to him now and look out circular is withdrawn at this juncture, as directed by the single judge, Thampi would definitely flee from the clutches of law and would tamper with records and evidence, ultimately jeopardising the investigation process.
 
 A division bench of Nooti Rama Mohana Rao and Justice S M Subramaniam, however, did not find merit in ED’s apprehensions, and said: “We examined the conduct of the writ petitioner (Thampi). We are prima facie satisfied that he is appearing before the ED whenever he is summoned, except on a couple of occasions because of serious ailment of his close family member who ultimately died later on.”
 
 “We direct the Union home ministry to return his passport latest before February 11 noon to enable him to move out of this country by using the passport. However, he shall furnish an undertaking to appear before the ED, provided he is given a minimum of three weeks’ duration prior to the notice so that he can organise his affairs, his trip and also furnish an undertaking before registrar (judicial) of this court that he would abide by the requirements to attend whenever he is called upon to do so by the ED. The lookout circular shall also stand withdrawn latest by noon of February 11, 2017,” the court said.
 
 
