After getting into trouble for using Indian bowler Jasprit Bum rah's no-ball picture from the ICC Champions Trophy final against Pakistan in a campaign to raise public awareness about road safety , the   has taken a more interactive route and is inviting citizens to share slogans revolving around `Don't Drink and Drive' theme on Twitter. The best slogans will be featured in the Jaipur Traffic Police's next campaign. One can share the slogans on   by using #SafeJaipur tag, along with their name and contact details. This was posted on the Twitter handles of the Jaipur Traffic Police and   recently . 

 Rahul Vashisth, ACP East, Jaipur Traffic Police, told us, “We are asking citizens to share creative slogans on `Don't Drink and Drive' to sensitize people on the issue. This is to raise awareness about the seriousness and dangers of drunk driving.While we have a team which handles social media and comes up with original and eye-catching slogans, this time we thought of engaging the Jaipur public in our campaign of curbing drunk driving. You never know, we might get some really interesting slogans that even we couldn't think of. We have already got some nice slogans that we might use. Such campaigns can only become effective if we have active participation from the citizens.“
 
 He added, “We haven't decided the prizes for the winners. But we would definitely be giving some prize and a certificate to the ones whose slogans we select.“ Rahul also informed that this is for the first time that the Jaipur Police has invited citizens to coin slogans for them via social media. “We have held competitions in schools and colleges in the past. Since the world is on social media today, this time we thought of using this platform to invite people to write slogans for us,“ he said. 
 
 Some of the slogans that people have come up with are, “See Peg Think Cab #JaipurPolice“ While the other tweeted, “You can hand over your keys or your life. Make the right choice. #SafeJaipur“ One of the users shared, “We know many drunk drivers. They are all dead“. He also tweeted, “Please check for plagiarism before you chose the winner.“ Some have tweeted more than one slogan.
 
 
 
