NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s guarantee of 8% return for senior citizens will not force you to opt for a new savings scheme as banks will offer the benefit on your existing fixed deposits.

 Sources said that the finance ministry is working out the details in consultation with the banks so that it can offer subsidy to top up FDs of senior citizens.   said that assured return would be offered on deposits of up to Rs 7.5 lakh for 10 years.
 
 Currently, SBI offers maximum term of 10 years on its FDs, which fetches 7%. Maximum return of 7.5% is offered on deposits of 211 days to one year. Sources said that the finance ministry will offer subsidy equivalent to one percentage point to, say, SBI’s 10-year FD, which currently offers 7% return annually.
 
 “The government will offer a reasonable amount of subsidy. It is not possible to offer assistance if a bank claims that the cost is 4%,” said a source, adding that the benefit will be available to FDs in public as well as private sector banks. Currently, the government’s senior citizen savings scheme offers 8.6% return and it will be a competing product. For long, senior citizens have been wary of rate cuts as it eats into their income as a large number of them have parked their entire savings into FDs.
 
 Bankers, however, were upbeat about the announcement. “We do not have a formal pension scheme and senior citizens rely a lot on fixed deposits for post retirement income. So, it makes sense to have such a scheme for senior citizens. We are waiting for the fine print to see how this will work and what impact it will have on deposits,” said Axis Bank MD & chief executive  .
 
 SBI chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya said the bank would unveil the schemes based on the PM’s announcement. Sources indicated that it could be early next week. “The PM’s package is quite comprehensive as it covers MSMEs, housing, pregnant women and senior citizens. It will provide a boost to the economy,” ICICI Bank MD &CEO   said.
 
 
