In a bid to harness   of the state, the   (HPTDC) has decided to launch two new packages, which is a first for the hill state. The corporation will conduct the first   in the second week of April, with HPTDC Deluxe buses covering the area from  . The tour will include areas like Matyana, Shilaroo, Kandyali up to Kotgarh. HPTDC managing director, Dinesh Malhotra said the tour will cost Rs 1,000 per person from Shimla, including transportation, welcome drinks, lunch, tea and snacks at HPTDC hotels enroute.

 The second one night two day package will include stay at Hotel Hatu, Narkanda with bed tea, breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner.The charge will be Rs 3,500 per person and the tour will proceed to Kotgarh the next morning, offering a glorious view of apple blossoms from Tani-Jubbar and Kotgarh.
 
 Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) vice-chairman and Kotgarh resident Prakash Thakur says taking tourists to the   and the rest of the state would boost tourism in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 According to Thakur, in Napa Valley of California, people visit wineries and grape orchards and Australia is also big on agro-tourism. In the late 80s, he said, when he was the “pradhan“ of Kotgarh panchayat, then speaker of the state assembly Vidya Stokes and then tourism minister Sat Ma hajan tried to introduce the concept of apple home stay but no one came forward.
 
 As tourism minister, he said, Sat Mahajan visited Japan where he had witnessed the Cherry Blos som. “It is good that finally Himachal Pradesh is going to harness the potential of apple blossom to boost its tourism potential,“ he said. Although the for mal tour packages have been introduced only now, seeds of apple tourism were sown over a century ago, when US citizen turned Indian citizen Samuel Evans Stokes imported the Red Delicious variety of apple from   to his Barobagh orchard at Thanedar in Kotgarh area of Shimla district.
 
 The simple business strategy changed the economy of the hill state and paved the way for today's apple orchard tourism. During his visit to the US in 1915, Satyanand Stokes learnt about the new apple variety, Red Delicious, patented by the Stark Brothers nursery in Louisiana. In 1916, Stokes, who made Kotgarh his home and also participated in the Indian freedom struggle, planted a few sap lings of Red Delicious in his Barobargh orchard. The first apple crop was sold in 1926. Located at a distance of 82 kms from Shimla, Kotgarh area is known as the apple heartland of Himachal Pradesh today . It was the cradle of Himachal's apple revolution. Rows of apple laden trees on undulating terrain are a visual delight.
 
