KOLKATA: You can’t identify the names, but can take a guess of a cross-voting, if any, from the votes, which   gets from Bengal lawmakers after the results are declared on Thursday.

 Kumar’s getting anything below the 82428 tally will vindicate state BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s claim of cross-voting in Bengal.
 
 The number has been derived from calculations-based weightage given to votes of MPs and MLAs from West Bengal — 708 for each MP (Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha) and 151 for each MLA. The opposition’s going for Meira Kumar makes the number crunching simple. Bengal has 56 MPs — 40 in Lok Sabha and 16 in Rajya Sabha — belonging to  , CPM and Congress. They have a total strength of 39648 votes. 
 
 Trinamool MP Tapas Pal — now in custody — could not vote on medical grounds, which takes away 708 votes from the total strength. The tally thus comes down to 38940 votes. The state has 288 MLAs from Trinamool, Congress and Left with a total 43488 votes, taking up the total tally to 82428 votes.
 
 Trinamool Congress leaders are not very sure of achieving this number because the party didn’t approach two MPs — K D Singh and Kunal Ghosh. There was no party whip in the presidential polls either. Kumar may lose 1416 votes (708x2) if these two MPs chose NDA candidate Ramnath Kovind, vindicating Ghosh’s claim.
 
 But if you thought that some Narada-tainted MPs may cross floor because they are under pressure, think again. Trinamool chief   has sealed the option. Well ahead of the presidential polls, party MPs got a message on July 1 asking them to come and vote in Kolkata instead of the usual practice — MPs vote in Delhi and MLAs in Kolkata. “We were asked to fill in the form for voting sent by the Election Commission, specifying Kolkata as the voting place and submit them to Kalighat,” a senior Trinamool MP said. 
 
 Later, party MP   was assigned to take all the filled-in forms and submit them to the EC. Two Trinamool MPs — Sugato Bose and Dev — were allowed to cast their votes in Delhi other than K D Singh.
 
 This is not all. “Prior to the voting, we were asked to assemble at the CM’s chamber for a meeting before queuing up for voting in the West Bengal Assembly hall. The CM stood close to us and there was hardly any scope to do something otherwise,” the Trinamool MP said.
 
 For others, namely Congress and Left, there was hardly any reason to go against Meira Kumar. Even suspended CPM MP Ritabrata Banerjee is likely to vote for Kumar. But who did K D Singh and Kunal Ghosh vote for? The answer to this will become all too apparent from the voting tally of each of the candidates — Ramnath Kovind and Meira Kumar. 
 
 
