LUCKNOW: A day after TOI highlighted how a school affiliated to   in Fatehpur was making biblical values must for its students, the school issued a clarification to parents which stated that the school focuses on moral values—love, forgiveness, affection, care, not telling lies, respecting elders—mentioned in the Bible. 

 The district magistrate has asked the district inspector of schools (DIOS) to probe the incident. The school, 200 km from Lucknow, came up with a religious diktat for its 1,500 students, from class KG to VIII. 
 
 The clarification note (a copy of which is with the TOI) issued by The   in Nasirpur, Fatehpur, reads, “The school has, from time to time, and through seminars and letters meant for parents, stressed on imbibing these moral values which are written in the Bible. These ‘principles’ only focus on values and do not talk about religion.” 
 
 According to the diktat, students were asked to read the Bible and their parents were required to sign a declaration of agreement with the rules and regulations of this Christian school, where their child will be taught ‘biblical values’. The declaration further asked parents to agree to the school and the management’s belief that ‘biblical values are very necessary for the growth and holistic development of children’. 
 
 The declaration, in both Hindi and English, is part of the data form 2017-18, and stated, “By applying to this school, we understand biblical values will be taught to our child and we are in full agreement to it.”
 
 According to principal V Federick Paul, parents who had already signed the declaration hold the right to withdraw.
 
 “Fresh forms will be issued to such parents. Those (parents) who do not wish to put their signatures under the declaration can do so at the bottom of the first page, which comprises students’ data,” Paul said. 
 
 Run by the Truth Mission Trust, the school is a co-educational English medium one started by Paul 13 years ago. Paul is also the founder of the Trust. 
 
 
