VASCO: A major power failure held up a high-profile I-League clash between Churchill Brothers and Mohun Bagan for 39 minutes at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco, ironically in the presence of power minister Milind Naik, who was seated in the stands. The match was being telecast live on television.

 Churchill Brothers had done well to fight back from a goal deficit to take a 2-1 lead in the second session when   went off in the 80th minute. It seemed like a regular failure as Tilak Maidan is no stranger to such occurrences but when darkness continued to engulf the stadium for half an hour, the hosts panicked. 
 
 Three minutes later, there was a glimmer of hope; the floodlights on the western tower were switched on but the generator could not take the load for the second tower. Mohun Bagan, facing defeat for the first time, refused to continue due to insufficient lights but were left with no choice as the hosts managed to restore lights to its full capacity. By then, officially, there was a 39 minute delay. Another 21 minutes and the match would have been abandoned by the referee.
 
 “In such instances, the match is automatically suspended for 30 minutes to allow conditions to improve sufficiently to restart the match, unless the referee decides that the match can be restarted earlier. At the discretion of the referee, another suspension of a maximum of 30 minutes shall be allowed if in his opinion this extra period of suspension will allow the match to be resumed,” match commissioner J Ravi Shankar told TOI, referring to Article 8(a) of the I-League regulations.
 
 On field decision of the referee is considered final. “The generator could not take the entire load. We had to wait a while for the generator to cool down and then start all over again,” said general coordinator  .
 
 Interestingly, Churchill Brothers were involved in another power failure at Tilak Maidan – for approximately 10 minutes – and ended up on the winning side against Salgaocar FC, a result that helped them stave off relegation in 2014.
 
 “We have had such instances before. I remember a game in Shillong when it was held up for 40 minutes three years ago. I will mention this (power) failure in my report to the All India   Federation (AIFF),” said the match commissioner. Meanwhile, Mohun Bagan goalkeeper Debjit Majumder was involved in an ugly verbal spat with travelling Bagan fans, including one female, after he took offence to a Facebook post. Security personnel had to be called to separate the warring factions after the match.
 
