KOLKATA: It usually starts with a missed call. When the call is returned by a young woman, the caller compliments her to initiate a conversation. There is a second call after a gap with a proposition from the caller — he asks the woman to marry him or provide her a job. If she agrees, a date is set for her to meet the caller at Mandirbazar. Amidst all this, the woman barely knows that she is walking in trafficking racket.

 South 24 Parganas police and Shakti Vahini Shakti Vahini — an NGO working against trafficking — explain how the mobile phones have become lethal weapons in the hands of traffickers, who are mostly between the age of 20-24 — allegedly “capable of attracting young women”.
 
 In many cases, the traffickers are helped by the employees of mobile recharge shops. In areas like Canning, Mathurapur and Mandirbazar, young people generally use pre-paid numbers and visit small shops to get their mobiles recharged. It is here that the traffickers start shadowing girls. Once the girls leave the shop, the traffickers pay the staffers Rs 500 to RS 1,000 per number and call the girls with promises of jobs or marriage. If the woman agrees, these youths lure them to Howrah or Sealdah stations and put them on Delhi-bound trains. These middlemen pocket around Rs 22,000-25,000 per girl. The girls are sold at Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh in Delhi and Agra.
 
 “We recently arrested two persons, Farah Ali Gayen alias Rakesh Haldar and Faraq Sk (20), from Mathurapur and rescued six girls after questioning Gayen. He collected the numbers of his victims from recharge shops in south Bishnupur and Mandirbazar,” said a police officer.
 
 One of the founding members of Shakti Vahini, Rishikant, said both the accused claimed one phone call was enough to “convince” the girls. “They said the extent of a woman’s poverty and good looks mattered. The victims were first put up at guest houses at Park Circus and Entally. The next day, they were put on the Kalka Mail and taken to hideouts in Delhi’s GB Road and east Delhi, where they were raped and sold to brothels in Howrah and Faridabad,” said Rishikant.
 
 Cops said, of the 12 traffickers nabbed this month, most were recharge shop employees. “We are visiting schools and panchayats to educate girls about the perils of missed calls. Schools have been asked to teach girls not to answer calls from unknown numbers. We are working with the legal department and   to ensure recharge shops don’t pass on the numbers to unknown people,” said an officer of district police headquarters at Alipore. 
 
 
