GURGAON: Close to 600   of   have approached the Haryana  , asking it to intervene on their behalf, after they were sent on ‘long leave’. A meeting was held between company representatives, the affected workers and labour officials on Wednesday.

 At its plant in Sector 37 near Hero Honda Chowk, the company produces two-wheelers, including motorcycles and scooters. Following a “dip in sales”, it sent 582 contractual workers on ‘long leave’ in December. 
 
 Incidentally, at the time, the company had described this as routine annual practice. The workers, who had been hired through a third-party vendor, alleged it was an after-effect of demonetisation.
 
 Sources told TOI the company’s management stated at Wednesday’s meeting there has been a 30% decline in their sales in December. 
 
 “The workers approached us in December-end to complain the company was downsizing due to demonetisation. We’re looking for a middle path and are examining Hero’s policies to see if the workers can be reinstated, or at least receive a better compensation package,” said  , additional labour commissioner.
 
 Sources revealed only 100 of the 582 workers have collected their full and final severance package so far. The remainder want the labour department to help them get their jobs back. “So many of our peers are unemployed. The cash crunch is pinching us. There are no jobs in the market. Where will we go? We’re unable to feed our families,” said a worker on condition of anonymity. 
 
 “I’ve been working here for five years. All this while, I’ve nurtured hopes one day, I’ll be hired as a permanent employee. Instead, I’ve now lost the contractual job. They say they’ll call us back, but who knows when that will happen,” said another affected worker.
 
 The labour department has asked Hero officials to prepare a plan to reinstate or compensate the workers. The company will also have to share details of production and sales, which they claim has led to the downsizing. 
 
 The company, when contacted by TOI, refused to comment on the issue.
 
 
