KANPUR: On the occasion of  , majority of the people of the city took to media like  , Whatsapp,   and   to express their  . They celebrated the day not only with their mothers but with all women who had made a difference in their life like mother, wife, sister and with all other people who made their lives great--no matter if they are moms or not. 

  Throughout the day, people were busy writing poems, songs and exchanging wishes on the special day. Many of them even posted their selfies with their mothers. People wrote special messages on Facebook, and also shared their pictures with mothers by writing emotional messages.
 
 "I posted all pictures of my mother on facebook and twitter. I also wrote a poem, telling how a mother struggles throughout her life to bring up her children", said Ankita Sharma, a social media user.
 
  Many interesting messages were shared and re-shared by the people. They wrote about the importance of mother in life and urged their peers to love and respect their mothers every day. 
 
  A social media user Shubham Gupta uploaded a song for his mother which was written and sung by him only. He got thousands of likes on it. Shubham informed that he had composed the song with the help of his two close friends. "It was a special moment for me and for my mother. She got tears in her eyes when I played that song for her. I also uploaded it on social media and it was liked by many friends and others, he added.
 
  The recently added feature of updating photo status for 24 hours on chatting messenger Whatsapp was also used by the social media buzz on the occasion. They posted pictures of their mothers at this platform also.
 
  Also, the all time favourite gift items like cards and flower bouquets also flooded the markets on the occasion.
 
  From specially designed mama's cups to flower baskets for mummy, from attractive apparels to fancy footwear, from musical cards to colourful jewellery, the gift item shops were having everything to show the love and emotion for mothers. Apart from these regular gifts shops, personalized coffee mugs, T-shirts and pillow covers were also exchanged.
 
 
