NAGPUR: “Teachers of the bygone era at   and Hospital (GMCH) had always inculcated a feeling of selfless service in their pupils as well as fellow beings. 

 “Today’s teachers need to follow the same principles and work for the institution with utmost commitment as students always knowingly or unknowingly imitate them,” said Dr Prakash Wakode, joint director,   (DMER) on Saturday.
 
 Dr Wakode was speaking at a function organized by   to dedicate two ‘digital podiums’, the first of its kind, by the alumni to their alma mater. The two podium costing Rs 10 lakh are equipped with state-of-the-art technology for modern teaching. 
 
 They have provisions of use for various electronic gadgets, including the facility to online search a subject and present it to students. Dr Wakode is also an GMCH alumnus.
 
 Dr Wakode stressed the need for a concerted team work for raising the standard of the college at par with institutes of excellence. He suggested that GMCH was an institution big enough to have an autonomous status. 
 
 He hinted that being an autonomous institution would mean higher salaries and permanent jobs for teachers which indirectly meant much better status of the college. He also indicated that the present and former GMCH teachers should strive to seek autonomous status for the college.
 
 Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, chancellor, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Karad and a GMCH alumnus, said that all former students should work for the uplift of the college as the ‘alma’ could never be bigger than the mater.
 
 The two podiums were donated to surgery department in memory of former teacher Dr Vikram Marwah and the anatomy department in memory Dr DK Kadasne, former anatomy teacher. One podium has been procured by Rs1 lakh donations from five former teachers and the other has been bought from smaller donations by the alumni.
 
 Padma Shri Dr Ashok Gupta, a renowned plastic surgeon and a GMCH alumnus, Dr Vibhawari Dani, former GMCH dean and secretary of the association, Dr ML Gandhe, GMCH dean Dr A Niswade, Dr Praful Kulkarni, Dr Avinash Rode, Meena Mishra, Dr  , Dr   (Dr Marwah’s daughter) and Dr Ravi and Dr Sunil Kadasne (Dr Kadasne’s sons) were present on the occasion. 
 
 Association treasurer and OSD of SSH Dr Manish Shirigiriwar proposed a vote of thanks. Earlier, a three-day training on handling the podium was rendered to the teachers.
 
