KARWAR/COLVA/MARGAO: Six picnickers from   were feared washed away on Sunday when flash floods caused water levels to rise at the Nagarmadi falls in Chendya village, around 8km from  . Two bodies were recovered, while four are feared drowned in the flash floods caused by the recent spell of rain.

 Bodies of 21-year-old Francila Pires and 29-year-old Fiona Pacheco, both from Raia, were recovered. Those missing have been identified as Renuka (23) from Raia, Marcelina Estibeiro (38) from Curtorim, Sameer Gaude (32) from Keri-Ponda and Siddu Chari (22) from Vasco.
 
 Superintendent of police (Uttara Kannada) Vinayak Patil said as only two bodies have been recovered, others are considered as missing. The families of all the six persons have filed complaints with Karwar rural police.
 
 The search operations at the Nagarmadi falls to locate the missing persons was stopped on Sunday night and will resume on Monday morning.
 
 Nine different groups, mostly from Goa, were picnicking at the base of the falls when the flash floods hit.
 
 All six, in different groups, reached the falls at around 9.30am on Sunday. At 11.30am, Karwar region received heavy rain and within minutes, the water level in the pool below the falls rose to about 10 feet. Those who were swimming under the falls were caught by surprise and could not come out of the water.
 
 Witnesses said some of them were sitting on the boulders around the water body. The increase in water levels was so sudden and the flow so violent that picnickers got washed away and the water pressure caused them to be slammed against the boulders. The two bodies were found entangled in shrubbery.
 
 Sources said the six were part of two or more groups of nearly 40 people from Goa.
 
 Curtorim MLA Alex Reginald Lourenco, who rushed to the site, told TOI, “Search operations will resume on Monday morning. Two bodies that were recovered have been moved to Civil Hospital, Karwar. After postmortem, they will be handed over to their families. The relatives of the deceased have already reached the hospital.”
 
 On Sunday morning, as the news of the drowning spread, people living around the forest area rushed to the spot. A massive search operation was launched to rescue the missing persons, but heavy downpour hindered the efforts.
 
 Nagaramadi is seasonal waterfalls in Karwar taluka, which is about 8km away from Karwar. The place has become a picnic spot and many visitors from Goa go there during holidays.
 
 In September 2016, Nix Fernandes, 16, from Panaji had drowned at Nagaramadi falls. In August 2016, a group of tourists from Goa had been rescued by fire personnel when they were caught in the forest after a stream they had crossed started overflowing.
 
 Even after these incidents, tourists go picnicking there without informing the authorities, sources said. Police authorities have requested tourists to maintain utmost care while venturing into the forest to reach Nagaramadi.
 
