'Don’t sell stupidity in the name of content!' – actor   opened a Pandora’s box recently, when he posted his views about a TV show on social media. It's an unprecedented move for a television actor to go public with his criticism of a show, considering the fraternity, in the past, often argued that they are showing what the audience wants. The post further states: "For the love of god and for the reason we all got in this industry plz dont sell me stupidity in the name of content which gives trp because honestly on one is watching this." The television industry, however, argue that such regressive shows rake in the TRPS. We spoke to celebs across the industry about their views on the regressive content on television and asked them, if they truly mirrored the society today... 

 
 
 
 
 It is important to credit the small screen for what we have achieved today in life, but the fact remains that shows are turning outright regressive. In order to win the ratings game, the makers are making shows on concepts which are completely unheard of. People might argue that they are catering to smaller towns and villages in India, but if you keep showing such regressive content, how will they learn and educate themselves? This has affected the popularity of TV; people are moving to other foreign channels and shows for entertainment. I also feel that we can’t sell stupidity, we need to be part of shows that we can be proud of.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I'd hate to generalise everything on Indian television as good or bad. I'd like to think that we are going through a phase of transition, where the attempt is to move towards finite content, get more grip on the script and quality of a product. Besides, television consumption is struggling with falling TRPs on the whole. In an environment like this, there are producers and channels trying different things to stand out and find an audience. I'm glad Karan Wahi came out and called the bluff. It takes courage for an actor to express his opinion. It is also heartening to see that we have a generation of actors who are willing to give the industry the respect it deserves, but not be subservient to it just because it gives us our bread and butter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I agree that people are making regressive shows. People have tried to experiment, but it fails to get the numbers. Besides, regressive shows are made because people love watching that. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The content on television is mediocre. We are forgetting that we also have a social responsibility to put sensible content out there, which makes people think. If someone is willing to take a risk, people should stand by them. Content on TV is regressive for many reasons and that should be addressed. Drama is incorporated in every show as we are told audiences like that. There are so many things in the shows that we don’t agree with, but we have to do it. Audiences need to reject such regressive content. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Most of the show on TV are regressive today. Few projects are conceived with a progressive thought. Being an actor, I would like to say that the power lies with the people. ‘Vote and remote’ are the two powers that they have; they should use it and stop endorsing such shows. Strangely, even when the show is dubbed regressive, people are still watching it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Actors, who want to do quality television, have no where to go. It’s better to sit at home than be part of such shows. The main target of any show has become TRPs. We talk so much about women empowerment, but we can’t even see a glimpse of it in our shows. Most shows start off as family dramas, and then it suddenly turns supernatural.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shows are becoming more regressive. The state of television has sadly gone from bad to worse. If we continue to make shows on such regressive plots, than this will reflect in society as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 A lot of shows on television are showing the same regressive stuff in the name of women empowerment. I don't watch a single TV show. It challenges my sensibilities as well, but I work in those same shows because that is what I am offered as an actor. And that is what brings in the TRPs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It's true that most content on TV is regressive, but there are still some makers who are doing their best in creating intelligent content, which adds up to making a nation progressive. It is saddening for creative people to see how TRP-driven our industry is, this often leads to a compromise in content. As a creative business, creativity has to be complimented with business. On the other hand, with digital content gaining viewership and makers becoming confident in creating what they want to without worrying about TRP, I see a good space ahead for some amazing content to reach us.
 
 
 
  I feel shows are surely regressive but there is certain audiences which are watching it. But at the same time lot of audiences have stopped watching tv and have shifted to other alternate online and other entertainment options. Content needs to appeal to the sensibility levels of audiences as audiences are far more intelligent as they are exposed to wide variety of content. Makers should make more progressive shows as audiences do imitate what is shown on TV. TV watching has reduced considerably that’s why overall trp’s are also less
 
 
 
 
 
 Television is a great tool for motivation, but the themes of our shows today have women fighting with other women, children falling in love with adults... What are we trying to sell to the youth and generation? 
 
 
 
 
 
 The content ranges from good to pathetic on various channels today. Maybe the channels are catering to the kind of response they get from various regions of this country? Or may be the contents reflect the existing mindset of this country, I can't say!
 
 
 
 
 
 I don't understand why our society has become so regressive? The themes on the show today are definitely not progressive! Have we completely run out of good and decent content to show on TV?
 
 
 
