NEW DELHI: Coalition partners in Bihar, JD(U) and  , on Friday diverged sharply at the all-party meeting on the the use of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in elections, with the former swearing by the device and saying it has boosted democratisation and helped with empowerment of the underprivileged and the latter arguing that a return to paper ballot should be considered if it was necessary for maintaining the credibility of the poll process.

 Rajya Sabha member R C P Singh, a close associate of Bihar CM  , and JD(U) general secretary   reposed the party’s faith in the machines, and opposed the sudden advocacy for a switch back to paper ballot even as they welcomed proposed measures to enhance the credibility of the process.
 
 JD(U)’s representatives argued that earlier, the socially vulnerable and economically underprivileged could not get to exercise their franchise because their booths would be captured by the elite. 
 
 “People in certain parts of   district had to wait until the 2015 polls to cast their vote,” Jha said, adding that elections in Bihar used to get over by 10 am because booths would be looted by the powerful. EVMs had helped make elections real for backwards and Dalits, they argued.
 
 Capture of booths by the powerful in Bihar predates Lalu's hegemony by decades but the reference to rampant denial of franchise to the poor was seen as an allusion to the rough ways of RJD.
 
 This was reinforced when JD (U)’s Singh referred to an alleged attempt to rig elections in Bihar under RJD. “In the 1999   elections, 2 lakh fake ballot papers were unauthorisedly printed in two Lok Sabha constituencies,” a source present at the all-party meeting quoted Singh as saying.
 
 Singh’s remarks set off speculation whether he was echoing the allegations of attempt to rig polls in the two constituencies -- Barh and Nalanda -- Nitish Kumar contested in 1999. RJD, led by Lalu Prasad and  , then sworn rivals of JD(U), held the reins of power at the time.
 
 The RJD, meanwhile, favoured going back to paper ballot for future elections. The party’s representative Manoj Jha said the   should be concerned about transparency of elections rather than whether they were conducted by machines or by any other device.
 
 “They are the custodian of free and fair polls and not that of a machine. Machine is only a medium but the ultimate aim is impartial voting,” he said.
 
 Referring to anti-EVM protests after the results in UP, Punjab and municipal polls in Delhi, Jha said, “If there are allegations about manipulation of the machines, as was demonstrated in Delhi Vidhan Sabha recently, then there must be a debate over reverting to ballots. Democracy should be run by trust and confidence of the people and not by singing paeans to a machine.”
 
