CHENNAI: Smart travel covers new ground. After Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai commuters discovered the ease of tap-and-go cards for road and rail commute, it will next be the turn of commuters in Bengaluru, Kochi and Hyderabad to use similar travel cards that enable micro payments. Instant payments in seconds is the motto driving contactless cards, which uses near-field communication (NFC) technology. While even swiping a card at a PoS machine takes time for authentication, entering PIN, printing slip etc, NFC cards offer a swift payment option that banks, fintech players and industry bodies like the National Payments Corporation of India are looking at.  With dual functionality (a combination of pre-paid and debit/credit card), commuters can use the combo card for access before boarding a train or bus. These cards can also be topped-up via mobile, net banking, ATMs or at metro stations. Currently, the Telengana Road State Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is looking at such pre-paid cards to enable micro payments for bus tickets between Rs 5-35. Payment for services such as visits to historical sites, malls and purchase of movie tickets is also being envisioned with the card.  In Bengaluru, BMTC has partnered with NPCI and Axis Bank for a similar roll-out shortly. “In the first phase, we are looking at issuance of 10,000 cards. We later plan to expand the coverage. If the scheme goes through, we aim at launching such cards in 120 cities across India,” said A P Hota, CEO, NPCI, in an earlier interview with TOI. At State Bank of India, a tap-and-go travel card is getting launched in Hyderabad after successful launches in Chennai and Mumbai.  “We are looking at four other metros for launching our unique co-branded, combo cards. There is also an option of auto-reload, where is the balance falls below a certain threshold then there will be an automatic top-up from the linked bank account. This will greatly help commuters, who don’t have to stand in long lines at the metro stations, if they use our technology,” said Vijay Jasuja, CEO, SBI Card.  Chennai-based Yeldi Softcom has been signed up for Chennai Metro and with 25,000 cards printed and 1,000 cards for the launch, the startup is ready to operate in 13 metro stations in the city. “The card offers a dual benefit. One can have a hassle free experience while travelling in the metro. The same card can be used for shopping,” said Ra Arujunamurthy, founder, Yeldi Softcom.  After bagging Chennai, the startup is in talks with Delhi metro and is looking at Bengaluru too. Users can download the Yeldi app and place an order for the NFC card. Some stations will have kiosks as well to sell these cards.  These cards also carry with them reward points, so commuters are incentivised to use them. SBI for instance offers 10X reward points on dining, grocery, departmental and movie spends.  It also has a bonus of 2,000 reward points on spends higher than Rs 2,000 for the first 60 days and a 2.5% fuel surcharge waiver across all petrol pumps. There will also be a reversal of annual fee on spends of above Rs 1 lakh. The Yeldi Folk’s Chennai metro card offers a 100% cashback for the first 1000 users.