BENGALURU: In Totagalu area of Jangamakote village in Chikkaballapura district, travelling after dusk is mostly forbidden for women and girls. Men also avoid stepping out of their home unless it’s absolutely necessary. Reason: The area doesn’t have a single streetlight. As crimes on streets were rampant, residents began thinking twice before stepping out. And that’s when children decided to get things fixed. The route they took was simple:  .

 “We have been living in the dark for years. Unlit streets are not just dangerous for women, but also lead to accidents and inconvenience senior citizens. It was difficult for me to contact the civic body till I participated in Makkala Gram Sabha, pointed out the inconvenience due to lack of streetlights and requested the panchayat to fix the problem soon,” said Naveen, 13, a class 7 student of Government Higher Primary School.
 
 Bhoomika 14, studying in class 8 in the   at Hettappanahatti, Tumakuru district, cycles 4km to and from school daily. Residents of six villages in the area share her plight. They have to either walk or cycle or use a private motorbike, that’s only if they can afford one. The area has no public transport and nobody cared till Bhoomika raised the issue at the Makkala Gram Sabha and demanded that KSRTC buses be deployed. 
 
 “While there’s so much clamour in cities over use of public transport to reduce pollution, some villages don’t even have a single KSRTC bus. Residents have to walk for kilometres even for basic necessities. Now that I have pleaded with the panchayat to get KSRTC buses for our village, we are hoping it’ll be done soon,” she says.
 
 Naveen and Bhoomika are among 2,257 children who have participated in 12 Makkala Gram Sabhas in the last two months in Chikkaballapura and Tumakuru. The sabhas were conducted by the Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness (CMCA), a non-profit organization, which has been working towards involving children in governance for six years now. The sabhas covered Jangamakote, Rathnasandra, Sheebi Agrahara, Sheebi, Kallambella, Kora, Magodu, Chinnenahalli, Ankasandra, Taruru, Talagunda and Boopasandra gram panchayats (GPs).
 
 Children, their parents, anganwadi workers, supervisors from department of women and child development, auxiliary nurse midwives, teachers, police officers, school development and monitoring committee members, local NGO representatives and jurisdictional GP members are compulsorily required to be present at the sabhas. Children could raise any issue that affects their lives. Officials and panchayat members take note of the same and initiate action. 
 
 “Makkala Gram Sabhas give kids a first-hand experience in identifying issues and getting the government to solve them. Children also learn to be confident and feel empowered. This is one of the best ways for youngsters to experience the nuances of democracy. This is why we put our best efforts to facilitate as many Makkala Grama Sabhas as possible,” said Marulappa PR, regional head of   at CMCA.
 
 FINDING A FIX
 
 For the last few years, students in my school have been suffering every rainy season. A few spells of rain and the roofs of our classrooms begin to leak. Most of us don’t have an extra set of uniform and end up falling sick and missing classes. This year, I have asked the government to repair our classrooms so that our studies are not affected
 
 Ashok | Class 8 student, Government High School, Hettappanahatti, Tumakuru
 
 WHEN COPS TOOK ACTION
 
 At the recent Makkala Gram Sabha, children informed government representatives that their school had been vandalized by miscreants after school hours. Soon after, police took action and all criminal activities have stopped, enabling us to run the school peacefully 
 
 Headmaster at Government High School, Jangamakote, Chikkaballapura
 
 HOW IT ALL BEGAN 
 
 As per a renewed Karnataka government notification on October 28, 2016, every GP is supposed to conduct Makkala Gram Sabha in November. The first notification, however, was issued in 2006 under the ministry of rural development and panchayat raj, following which CMCA has played a major role in organizing these sabhas since 2011.
 
 “The government has decided to observe November 13 to 30 as Child Rights Fortnight and directed all GPs to hold Makkaa Gram Sabhas for a day during this period. GPs play a pivotal role in protection of child rights and allowing them to participate in civic issues for their own growth. In Makkala Gram Sabhas, it’s necessary to discuss problems faced by children and the plans for their development,” added Marulappa.
 
 TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION
 
 · Provision for nutritious food for children 
 
 · Organizing educational and recreational activities for kids to develop scientific temperament
 
 · Enrolling children in 3-6 age group in anganwadis and schools and ensure educational development
 
 · Spreading awareness about bonded labour; engaging children in agricultural activities and other sectors
 
 · Taking up special measures for protection and development of girl child
 
 · Focussing on issues related to children, schools and villages, as raised by kids
 
