JAISALEMER: Efforts for conserving the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), which is on the  , are bearing encouraging results. On Wednesday, an   was found at   at   (DNP) in Jaisalmer. This is the first GIB egg found in this breeding season. Illegal cultivation in DNP has been banned so that godawans face no disturbance during breeding season. 

 Last month too, 17 godawans were sighted in the new enclosures made at Ramdeora near Pokhran field firing range. "Today, one egg was seen in Ramdevra enclosure. Strict security arrangements have been made at DNP and Ramdeora area," DNP deputy conservator of forest Anoop K R said. "Special predator-proof enclosures have been made at Sudasari, Ramdeora and other areas of DNP. We are closely monitoring the enclosures to detect more egg/chicks. These improved enclosures were made by fixing chainlink fence one metre below the ground using cement concrete." Anoop added.
 
 Many activities have been undertaken under Project Bustard and Rajasthan Forestry and Biodiversity Project between 2013 and 2016 for the conservation of GIBs. 
 
 Around 60 enclosures have been made at DNP and satellite areas to provide protection to the breeding grounds of GIB and water guzzlers have been constructed at different places for birds and other wildlife. 
 
 Security has been tightened in the enclosures to ensure complete security to the chick and mother.
 
 Special directions have been given to the forest personnel deployed there. 
 
 "Looking to monsoon, there has been information about illegal farming in DNP. Patrolling has been increased and villagers have been barred from any kind of farming in DNP area. Action has been taken against few farmers for illegal farming," Anoop said.
 
 DNP official sources said that these days, female godawans are not seen in Sudasari and Ramdevra areas which clearly indicates that they are sitting on their eggs. 
 
 In the entire DNP area, human movement and interference has been banned as 15-16 female godawans could be sitting on their eggs.
 
 
