CHENNAI: Given the need to expand Chennai airport, the Tamil Nadu government has okayed acquisition of 50.2 acres of land at Kolapakkam for   Expansion Scheme recently. The move could pave way for more acquisition to realise the long-pending demands of the aviation sector.

 The transport department, the nodal agency, has notified its intention in August to acquire patta lands at Kolapakkam village in   district to set up hangars and fuel farms. In June, 30.57 acres were notified at Manapakkam village in   taluk.
 
 “Plan of these plots are at the office of the special tahsildar (land acquisition), Chennai Airport Expansion Scheme, Sriperumbudur and owners of the plots shall inspect them,” said a senior government official.
 
 To set the ball rolling, the notification has been made under Section 3 of Tamil Nadu Acquisition of land for Industrial Purpose Act, 1997. The plots fall in Sriperumbudur taluk and a separate wing for acquisition, led by a district revenue officer, is working to procure a government order to compensate eligible land owners listed in the August 18 notification. As many as 97 survey numbers have been identified for acquisition at Kolapakkam after officials from   dropped in at the secretariat and held discussions emphasising the significance of the project, sources said. At Manapakkam, 44 survey numbers have been earmarked.
 
 The origin of the expansion scheme dates back to 2007 when the state government gave administrative sanction for 1069.99 acres. Based on an AAI report later, 852.88 acres were de-notified in 2014. Only 130.12 acres were handed over to better the aviation infrastructure years ago.
 
 “It will take at least six months to complete the process of acquisition and award compensation. The plots will be surveyed finally before being handed over to the AAI,” a revenue official from Sriperumbudur taluk said.
 
 Plots have been recognised at Kolapakkam, Manapakkam, Pallavaram Cantonment,  ,   and Cowl Bazaar. The bureaucracy has cleared the legal hurdles in acquiring land, vacating a stay on 15 acres early this year. “The AAI is eyeing 184 acres and the state will hand it over one after another in parcels. The plots are spread across various areas. Kancheepuram collector will award the compensation to the owners,” another official said.
 
