BELAGAVI:   have been subjected to confusion and are in a dilemma due to the   in the admission process under the Right to Education Act (RTE) with three postponements since the scheduled date.

 In all, 2,549 seats have been declared for LKG admissions under RTE in Belagavi and 2,000 seats in Chikkodi educational district. But the number of seats for class 1 has not yet been announced.
 
 The department of public instructions usually starts the process of receiving RTE applications in January every year. This year, the department had fixed January 15 to start the process. It was then postponed to January 20 and later to January 26. The process to receive applications has not started and left parents shocked.
 
 A help desk has been set up in every Block Education Officer’s office for RTE admissions. As per government instructions, BEOs have installed a help desk with internet connectivity, , scanner and printer and has also deputed a data entry operator. But as no software has been provided, these help desks are useless. The help desk at the BEO office in   has been visited by at least 200 parents since January 20 and they’ve garnered details. But even the staff are confused about the timeline for admission.
 
 There are two months left for the end of this academic year and less than a month left to begin the admission process in all private schools. This delay puts pressure on parents and compels them to get admission for their children by paying huge donations. 
 
 “The government should start the   immediately,” said social activist  .
 
 The government has made registration of Aadhaar cards of students and parents and recording their thumb impressions mandatory while applying online for RTE admission to bring transparency in the process. It has provided the required software but technical errors have surfaced and delaying the process, said Chikkodi DDPI Gajanan Mannikeri.
 
 Santosh Hanchinmani, a resident of Vadgao in Ward No. 12, said, “I want to apply for an LKG seat under the RTE Act for my son. I’ve been to the BEO’s office at least five times since January. I’ve also put my contact details in their register but officials suggest I keep visiting twice a week because they’re not certain when the process will begin.”
 
 
