Jaipur: The illegal parking of buses and trucks in residential areas and on footpaths has become a new headache for the city’s residents and motorists.

 For the residents of Barkat Nagar, illegal parking is a never-ending nightmare. The congested lanes here are encroached upon by school buses, tractors and trailers.
 
 “The illegally parked transport vehicles, including buses are parked here in around midnight. Sometimes, our main gate is blocked due to these transport vehicles,” said Abhimanyu Soni, a resident of Barkat Nagar.
 
 Similarly, in areas near Ambedkar Nagar, the residents complaint of trucks being parked on their streets. “There are some construction material shops near our area. They park their trucks in our colony due to which there is a   congestion,” said Gautam Sharma, a resident of the area.
 
 Not just residential areas, in fact, the city’s public roads, footpaths and even parks have been encroached upon by these heavy vehicles. A walk around JLN Marg, Bajaj Nagar and Gopalpura speak volume about how traffic norms are being openly flouted by drivers in the city.
 
 Hari Kishan Gurjar, a driver at a private tour company, said that private buses are parked near secluded areas and streets in midnight as these companies don’t have any places to park.
 
 However, Haider Ali Zaidi, deputy commissioner police (Traffic), said, “Over 1,000 offenders were booked last year. The traffic police has launched a drive to nabbed to these offenders, many of these people have been book under illegal parking norm,” Zaidi said, adding, that development of alternative parking spaces is a need of the hour.
 
 “The problem is that we don’t have designated parking spaces in our city, we have been carrying out night patrolling in these areas to get catch offenders, but people don’t have places to park their cars,” Zaidi said.
 
 Police are also levying hefty penalties on trucks and buses. “We are working to get the city rid of gridlocks. People call us to complaint about the illegal parking and we take stringent action,” he added.
 
 
