Indore: Increase in cash withdrawal limit from banks and a complete removal of any kind of restrictions on money withdrawal from March 13, has brought cheers among small industrial units in   and labour trade unions.

 Daily payment to contract labourers and monthly wage distribution to migrant workers engaged with factories through contractors and middlemen were severely hit post demonetisation due to liquidity crunch and withdrawal restrictions.
 
 Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan president Gautam Kothari said, “Increased withdrawal limit will benefit labourers and contractors. Indirectly industries will also heave a sigh of relief. They were facing a lot of trouble in disbursing payment to contract workers.”
 
 Industrialists said that most of the workers attached to the factories are migrants and they accept payment in cash on a weekly or monthly basis.
 
 Reserve Bank of India has increased the withdrawal limit to Rs 50,000 per week from February 20 for savings account holders. 
 
 The limits on cash withdrawals from savings bank accounts will be withdrawn completely from March 13, the RBI notification said. 
 
 Industrialists said that situation is improving gradually and coming back to normalcy due to availability of cash in the system. 
 
 Kailash Agrawal, an industrialists said, “Increase in withdrawal limit is good but banks should be in a position to give required amount to industrialists when needed. Enhanced limit is unlikely to work until banks even at small places get capable of disbursing required money.” 
 
 Industrialists said that post November 8, most of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) shifted to cashless business unlike large companies, who were already dealing in digital transactions even before demonetisation.
 
 Small companies were majorly hit by demonetisation after they failed to carry day to day operations, purchase of materials and wage payment. 
 
 Some of the industrialists said that many industrial units have opened accounts for their workers since November. 
 
 Deepak Verma, an industrialist said, “I think the increase in withdrawal limit is more than sufficient. After demonetisation, industries are converting digital and have started dealing online even for small payments unlike earlier.”
 
 As of now, there is no limit on current account and there is a cap of Rs 50,000 for farmers a week and Rs 2.5 lakh for marriage purpose.
 
 
