NEW DELHI: The office of lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has conveyed to   Rajiv Mehrishi in a letter that the department-related standing committees (DRSCs) of the Delhi assembly have been given unconstitutional   which must be withdrawn. A message to this effect has been sent to the Delhi assembly, says the letter.

 The letter, written by the principal secretary of the LG to Mehrishi on September 15, refers to an earlier letter from the LG dated July 17, 2017 with regard to “the amendments in the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi for constitution of department-related standing committees”. In this letter, Baijal had said that DRSCs were enjoying “extra-jurisdictional” powers in an attempt to “control and pressurize officers”. It added that “the goal (of the DRSCs) appears to be to misuse the authority of the legislative assembly to malign the image of officers and to implicate them in breach of privileges of the committees and contempt of the House”.
 
 In July, the home ministry and LG had sought an opinion on the functioning of these DRSCs. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain had then said that these committees should be dismantled as they were trying to “usurp” executive or judicial functioning by violating the separation of powers laid down in Constitution.
 
 The DRSCs have been monitoring matters like desilting of drains and looking into possible scams in various departments. Senior officers have been called to depose before the committees. Government sources said the committees are an effective tool to address issues arising out of a “policy paralysis” brought about through the Centre’s efforts to create hurdles in the functioning of the AAP government.
 
 In his July letter to Mehrishi, Baijal had said that “departments of services, vigilance, UTCS, DSSSB, home, land and building, which are performing functions related to ‘Reserved Subjects’ have also been included within the purview of DRSCs” which is in violation of the provisions of Article 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution of India”.
 
 The letter stated that the amendments gave powers to the DRSCs which were not enjoyed even by the DRSCs of the Lok Sabha. These include Rule 244B(a) which empower the committees to “examine and report what measures or reforms consistent with the policy approved by the assembly might be effected” and Rule 244B(e) which allow the committees to “take up matters of public importance concerning the respective departments for scrutiny, inquiry, investigation and make reports thereon”.
 
 The letter added that rules that apply to the Lok Sabha DRSCs which have not been included for the Delhi Assembly DRSCs include Rule 331E of the Parliament DRSC according to which the “standing committees shall not consider matters of day-to-day administration of the concerned ministry/department” and Rule 331N according to which the “report of the standing committees shall have persuasive value and shall be treated as considered advice given by the committees”.
 
 In August, the assembly referred a complaint against BJP MLA Vijender Gupta to the privileges committee for having called DRSCs “unconstitutional”. Defending the committees in light of the ASG’s opinion and Gupta’s allegations, deputy CM Manish Sisodia had said even as a part of the executive, he had no objection to the functioning of the committees though ministers could be summoned by them.
 
 AAP MLA from GK Saurabh Bharadwaj, who is heading two assembly committees, said during a Facebook live in August that the committees were seeking answers from both bureaucracy and government to make them accountable. “The opposition should be happy that we are taking our own party members to task,” he had said.
 
