LUCKNOW: A split in the   may have got saved at the last minute as party patriarch   seems to have stopped short of announcing his decision to float a new outfit at a special press briefing here on Monday. Party sources said the event was progressing as scheduled but at the last moment Mulayam decided not to read that part of the press brief which talked about his decision to break away from SP and form a new party. Instead, he chose to attack the ruling   at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh for its “faulty policies“.The party founder had called a press conference on Monday amid reports that he would announce a formal split and part ways with son Akhilesh, the party's national president. The press conference began with Mulayam lambasting the central and the state governments.Once through with his address, Mulayam was about to take questions from reporters when Sharda Pratap Shukla, a loyalist sitting beside him on the dais, showed him a page he had forgotten to read. Mulayam, however, shoved it aside, saying: “Baad mein padhenge (Will read it later)." He then started taking questions from the media where he clarified that he had no plans to form a separate party “as of now“.

 Sources said the paper Mulayam ignored to read was actually the announcement about him floating a new party. Later, a printed sheet of paper, purportedly the one that Mulayam did not read, began doing the rounds on social media.The paper read: “Despite being humiliated unprovoked for the past one year, I tried to bring the party together, yet I was not invited to the party's state convention because of which I am feeling insulted."
 
 The second paragraph of the page read: “Keeping in mind the sentiments of the party workers from across the country , I have decided to form a separate party to take a separate political path along with other like-minded leaders of the same ideology...“ The press conference was still underway when SP chief   tweeted: “Netaji Zindabad ... Samajwadi Party Zindabad (Long live Netaji, SP) The press conference was held at the office of the  , situated barely 100 meters away from the party headquarters in Lucknow. The pandal where Mulayam addressed the media was also draped in white instead of party colours red and green.
 
