BIJNOR: The district   on Sunday seized nearly 26,000  , estimated to be worth Rs 8 crore, from  , which was being sent by Bilai sugar mill to   by allegedly defying set norms.
 
  According to sugarcane department officials, sugar mill owners need to pay 95% of the farmers’ dues before selling 5,000 quintal or above produce, whereas Bilai sugar mill owners have paid just 44% of the stipulated payment. “However, the sugar mill has a due amount of Rs 80 crore on it, and a couple of days back the administration had filed a case against the mill authorities for not paying dues in time,” they said.
  
  Moreover, officials said, the mill did not seek permission from the department before sending sugar sacks to West Bengal.
  
  Divulging details, sugarcane development committee secretary Omprakash Singh said, “A few days back, the cane department had confiscated sugar at Bilai mill under joint custody of the administration and the mill authorities, and also asked them not to sell sugar without administration’s permission.”
  
  “As per norms, mill authorities need have to pay 95% of the farmers’ dues for selling 5,000 quintal or above sugar. However, defying the norms, the mill sent 52,000 sacks of confiscated sugar in 200 trucks to the railway station. However, sugarcane officers, along with farmers, thwarted their intention and confiscated sugar sacks.”
  
    (BKU) district secretary Digambar Singh said, “Bilai sugar mill has not paid due amounts owing to which farmers are facing financial crunch. They are unable to deposit school fee of their children and meet their daily expanses. The administration had assured us that the mill could not sell sugar till the dues are not cleared. If mill sells it, the owners will have to pay dues from the amount they receive from the buyers. On Sunday, it came to fore that the mill was selling sugar without paying dues. We will launch a stir against it.”
  
  Meanwhile, another BKU leader Rakesh Tiket also reached the station and spoke to cane officers in this regard, whereas farmers staged a dharna. However, after getting an assurance from cane officers, the farmers called off their dharna. However, Tiket threatened that all dues should be paid soon, otherwise they would launch a statewide agitation.
  
  District cane officer O P Singh told TOI, “We have talked to the mill owners in this regard. It is true that they were selling sugar without any prior permission from the administration. The sugar sacks were being loaded in 42 bogies, which were confiscated. However, when the mill authorities gave us written assurance that they would pay farmers’ dues after selling the sugar, we allowed them to sell it.”
