PUNE: Around 15,000 employees of about 899 permit rooms and bar-cum restaurants along highways in the district have headed home because they have been sent on forced leave after liquor became a history in those establishments from April 1.

 Rough estimates of the   and   (PRAHA) revealed this on Wednesday. A source said the number of employees leaving for their villages accounted for 40% of the total employees in such restaurants. Close to 400 permit rooms and bars have shut shop in the city, the source added.
 
 Ganesh Shetty, president, PRAHA, told TOI that close to 10,000 to 15,000 workers — mostly waiters and utility staff members — had returned to their villages for the time-being because they could not afford to live in the city without work after the ban. “Though they are currently being paid their salary, the expenses in the city are more than that in villages and they do not wish to over-spend. They have, therefore, gone back home with their families,” said Shetty.
 
 He added that the average salary of these servers was between Rs10,000 and Rs14,000 per month.
 
 The director of a leading mall said some employees in the resto-bars in the facility had been sent on “forced leave” after the liquor ban. “Close to 40% of such waiters were recently sent on forced leave because there was no other way to tide over this situation. The survival of a lot of these workers is at stake after the highway liquor ban,” he said.
 
 Roopraj Shetty, vice-president, PRAHA, and the owner of six restaurants-cum-bars in Pune said close to 60% of 550 employees in his restaurants had left for their villages. “These waiters had nothing to do after the ban, so they left. Without liquor, the food component in these restaurants has taken a hit too, so waiters have little to do. In addition, most restaurants-cum-bars in the city are now shut, which has adversely affected the employees,” he said.
 
 Sanjeev Patil, the owner of   in  , said, “Out of a strength of 75 people in my resort, as many as 32 have gone on leave or have quit after the ban. Most of these waiters served liquor.”
 
 Another liquor distributor in the city said he had lost 50% of business after the ban. “This means I shall have to reduce my manpower to keep running my business. If nothing changes by April 30, I shall have to give at least 40% of my employees the pink slip,” he said.
 
 A city restaurateur claimed that the apex court could not pass such a ruling and that the highway liquor ban was a legislative decision which should have been taken after a bill to the effect was passed. “The highway liquor ban will cause revenues loss of crores apart from affecting the livelihoods of a million, which is against the ethos of a liberal nation,” he said.
 
