GANDHINAGAR: In the last five years, since 2012, the dreaded   virus has on an average claimed at least five lives every 11 days in the state. The maximum deaths were reported in the year 2015, when 517 people lost their lives to the disease. Alarmingly, in 2017, the state has already reported at least nine deaths -- six in Rajkot and three in Ahmedabad -- most of them in the summer, reportedly not the peak season for the virus. 

  In reply to the question of   from Dariapur, Gyasuddin Shaikh, the state government has admitted in the assembly that since 2012, in Gujarat, 854 people have lost their lives because of swine flu.
 
 The reply tabled in the assembly states that in total 8,834 people tested positive for swine flu from 2012 to 2016, which roughly comes to nearly five patients being hospitalized with swine flu daily in the state during that period. The figures show that Ahmedabad district, and especially Ahmedabad city, were the worst-affected in the state. The city recorded 2,832 cases in five years, and 155 deaths in the same period, which was the highest in the state for any city.
 
 The four cities, Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara, put together, account for more than 50% of the cases registered in the state, and the situation was the same with regard to deaths.Swine flu was at its deadliest in 2015, especially in Gujarat and Rajasthan. 
 
 According to officials, Gujarat was the worst-affected followed by Rajasthan. The two neighbouring states had accounted for nearly 40% of the total deaths in the country. 
 
 Between January and March 2015, in just three months, 1,947 deaths were reported in India, out of which 417 were reported in Gujarat followed by 403 deaths in Rajasthan. The government in 2015 had even called off all its functions following the swine flu outbreak. J P Gupta, commissioner of health, said, “2015 was the worst in terms of swine flu in the state. More cases came in from Kutch and Saurashtra than other regions. However, the state faithfully reported all deaths even if the person had other co-morbidities.” Gupta said that because the government had reported the true picture, it was able to control large scale spread of the disease. The commissioner further said that this year, too, despite the high temperatures, swine flu cases were being reported. “These cases were reported in persons who were low on immunity,” said Gupta.
 
 Times View
 
 Swine flu virus has started targeting people round the year in the state, resulting in high morbidity and mortality. In such circumstances, the government needs to step up measures to create awareness about the disease, its prevention and cure so that not only the common man but even the doctors suspect and diagnose the disease early to prevent deaths. For proper diagnosis and treatment, swine flu testing must be decentralized and select laboratories be allowed to test the H1N1 virus.
 
 
