NEW DELHI: More than six months after ex-Arunachal CM   committed suicide, leaving behind a 60-page signed note, the   decided to hear on Thursday a complaint by his widow   seeking a   into his charge of bribery against politicians and judges.

 A bench of Justices Adarsh K Goel and U U Lalit is scheduled to hear Dangwimsai’s complaint to Chief Justice of India J S Khehar alleging that the   police had brushed under the carpet serious allegations of corruption against important politicians and SC judges. She had demanded an impartial probe into the allegations levelled in the suicide note, either by the CBI or the National Investigation Agency.
 
 In a bold decision, Khehar ordered the registry to convert her complaint into a writ petition and list it for hearing in the open court before a bench headed by Justice Goel despite being aware that the suicide note naming a few judges had been doing rounds of social media and news portals, giving rise to the possibility of unverified charges being repeated during the court hearing.
 
 On July 13 last year, an SC bench of Justices Khehar, Dipak Misra, Madan B Lokur, P C Ghose and N V Ramana had delivered a 328-page judgment that unprecedentedly resurrected a state government that had been dismissed through the imposition of central rule.
 
 In November 2015, led by Pul, 21 Congress MLAs had rebelled against then CM Nabam Tuki. The fast-paced political developments led to the imposition of central rule on January 24, 2016. Less than a month later, on February 19, then governor Jyoti Prasad Rajkhowa swore in Pul as CM. But on July 13, the SC judgment pulled his government down and ordered the restoration of Tuki’s government.
 
 The judgment, however, did not help Tuki wrest the CM post and the Congress government returned under the leadership of Pema Khandu, who, within a span of four months, changed his government’s political affiliation twice to end up with BJP.
 
 In a media briefing, Pul’s wife had said: “We want a central investigation agency — the CBI or NIA — to investigate the case. Every politician and judge named in the letter should be brought into the limelight and action taken against them for demanding bribe.”
 
 Pul belonged to the Kaman Mishmi tribe and hailed from Walla village in the eastern Arunachal district of Anjaw. He became an MLA for the first time in 1995.
 
