GURUGRAM: A case has been registered against a real estate company, following direction of a city court, for taking money from an investor for a   in a commercial tower and later selling the same to another buyer.

 Sadar police station registered a case against   Technology Parks Development Private Limited, which has its registered office in  , its directors Umashankar Halwasiya, Sanjay Khuranna and managing director Mukund Halwasiya, under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy). The FIR was registered on September 7, and a copy of it submitted before court on September 9.
 
 Earlier, in August, while hearing a case filed by Suresh Kumar of JDS Estate Private Limited, first class judicial magistrate Prashant Rana had directed police to file an FIR against the company and its directors, and to submit a copy of it before the court.
 
 Advocate Vishal Gupta said complainant Suresh Kumar had purchased a 1,500 sq ft unit (unit number 101A) on the first floor of Welldone Tech Park on Sohna road in 2008, after paying Rs 45 lakh. “As per the memorandum of understanding, the   had to pay assured return of Rs 60 per unit to the buyer, and then lease out the space,” said Gupta, adding that Kumar started getting assured return from 2009.
 
 In 2010, the developer contacted Kumar and told him they had   his unit (number 101A) by mistake. “They said conveyance deed has been signed, so nothing much can be done, and offered me unit number 401A instead,” said Kumar, adding he accepted the proposal fearing he would lose all his investment. He said despite his repeated request, the developer avoided to execute the conveyance deed of the property.
 
 In 2015, when Kumar was out of the country, he again got a call from the developer’s office, this time for payment of property tax. “I sent my driver to the developer’s office to make the payment and get a receipt,” said Kumar, adding he checked the receipt on his return to India and found the tax was paid for unit 212A and not 401A.
 
 Unable to get any satisfactory reply from the developer, he started investigating on his own. “I came to know that all the units, 101A (first allotted to me), unit 401A and unit 212A, were sold to different persons way back in 2010. None of the units were in my name,” said Kumar.
 
 Failing to get any response to his accusation from the developer, Kumar filed a complaint with the economic offence wing of Gurgaon police in April 2016. “EOW in its report confirmed units were sold to different persons by keeping me in the dark. But no action was taken against developer,” said Kumar, adding that is when he approached the court.
 
 Kumar filed a case before city court in August 2017. Taking cognisance of the issue, the court directed police to file an FIR. “Finally, a criminal case was filed against the accused. I hope they will soon face punishment for their crime,” said Kumar.
 
 Despite all efforts, TOI was unable to reach Welldone Technology Parks Development Pvt Ltd for their official version.
 
 
