PUNE: Stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act ( ) were   on Sunday for a series of   after they were released on bail last year. 

 Nilesh Saste of Kalewadi and Suraj Kamble alias Subba from Yerawada befriended each other in the  . 
 
 They ran individual gangs and were arrested for different criminal activities. Kamble and Saste were involved in eight and two robbery cases, respectively. 
 
 After they were released on bail in 2016, they came together and committed two chain snatchings on NIBM Road in Kondhwa after threatening a woman and a businessman with a knife. Kamble was the gang leader, while Saste was its member. 
 
 Police zeroed in on Saste again on December 5 after tracing his vehicle number. Kamble was arrested from Panvel on December 21 and a gold chain, two rings and a bike were recovered from him. They are in judicial custody at the Yerawada central prison since their arrest.
 
 Kamble and Saste are criminals on record in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Kamble studied up to Standard V, while Saste is an illiterate. They started committing chain snatching in Kondhwa assuming that they would not come under the police scanner after they were released from the Yerawada central prison.
 
 After investigations revealed that the duo were members of an organized crime syndicate, senior inspector Satish Govekar of the Kondhwa police initiated a proposal for prosecuting them under MCOCA. 
 
 The proposal said the robbers had threatened their victims with a sharp knife and created a reign of terror among the public. The money generated from the crime was used for fun and merrymaking. 
 
 Additional commissioner of police   (north region) accorded sanction to prosecute the duo under Section 3 (punishment for organized crime) of MCOCA.
 
 The investigating officer will seek custody of the robbers from the jail for collecting evidence on organized crime after the civic elections. 
 
 The police said as many as 17 cases were registered under MCOCA in 2015 and 127 persons were arrested. 
 
 Last year, a total of 10 cases were registered and 68 people were arrested.
 
