CHENNAI: Around 14 years after the sensational ‘encounter’ killing of   in Chennai, the Madras high court on Tuesday said the case should have been handed over to the   or an independent investigating agency.

 Blaming itself for having delayed the verdict on two petitions including one filed by Pannaiyar’s wife V Radhika Selvi, who later became an MP and also the Union minister of state for home, a division bench said: “At this length of time, after 14 years of the occurrence, if any such investigation is ordered, it would not serve any purpose as many of the witnesses would have either died or would have forgotten the facts.”
 
 Venkatesa Pannaiyar was gunned down by the then deputy commissioner of police, Central Crime Branch, in Chennai, S S Krishnamoorthy, who was leading a team of police personnel. Though police claimed that the DCP had to open fire because the team had been fired at by Venkatesa Pannaiyar, it was denied by Radhika Selva who pointed out that several witnesses had told the Justice A Raman inquiry commission that Pannaiyar had been unarmed and that a revolver ‘recovered’ from the spot had not been in working condition. Worse, the case was investigated by an inspector-level officer.
 
 Citing these serious discrepancies, the present bench said: “We find every justification in the request of the petitioners for transferring the case to the CBI or to some other agency, since the investigation of the case was done by an inspector of police who was subordinate to the deputy commissioner of police who shot Venkatesa Pannaiyar dead…It is crystal clear the investigation should have been entrusted to any other agency like the CBI, or at least to CB-CID of Tamil Nadu, so as to unearth the truth and instill confidence in the system in the minds of people. Unfortunately, it was not done by the government on its own.”
 
 It has not been explained why it was not considered that investigation should have been entrusted to at least an officer above the rank of deputy commissioner of police, not under the control of the commissioner of police, Chennai city, the bench wondered. “It is also not explained to the court why the officer who is far below in hierarchy to S S Krishnamoorthy, deputy commissioner of police, was allowed to investigate the case.”
 
 The bench then asked itself: “Now, the question is, at this length of time, whether it would subserve the cause of justice in transferring the case to CBI. We are pained to say that it would not.”
 
 Rejecting the prosecution argument that the case should not be handed over to another agency merely because chargesheet in the case had already been filed, and the trial was in progress, the bench said such arguments deserved rejection.
 
 As for Radhika Selvi’s submission that the judicial inquiry ordered by the government was an eyewash, the judges said they would not want to express any opinion on the inquiry which was instituted 13 years ago. The Justice Raman committee report on the   is yet to be tabled in the Tamil Nadu assembly.
 
 The prosecutor, however, informed the court that steps would be taken to table the report in the assembly and necessary action would be taken thereafter.
 
 
