Times News Network 

 Chandigarh: With the gates of the   closed for over one hour because of the   Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) gate  , students who had come to get their queries addressed were stranded.
 
 “As we were holding a gate meeting, we were told it would be conducted either before or after work hours. As soon as we concluded the meeting and were about to resume work, the gates were closed. The registrar said there was a miscommunication. The vice-chancellor told us that they should be informed about such meetings beforehand,” said PUSA president Deepak Kaushik.
 
 The gates were closed at 10:28am and opened at 11:54am.“PU administration does not allow rallies, dharna or gate meetings during working hours. Gates were closed for employees who were absent from their place of work. The association president met the vice-chancellor and assured compliance of PU rules. The matter was resolved amicably,” said PU registrar Col G S Chadha (retd).
 
 With the gates closed and   raising slogans against the university registrar, students who had come from across Punjab had to wait outside the administrative block for 1.5 hours. 
 
 “I took a day off from work to get MA Economics results. But I have been standing here for more than one hour now. Differences of the University staff should not become a hurdle for students,” said Nisha Sharma, who came from Moga.
 
 Rajmeet Kaur, another student who came to collect her DMC from Bhatinda said she had been waiting for more than 45 minutes and had other works lined up. The form sale counter was also closed since non-teaching staff members were outside the admin block protesting against the registrar’s decision of locking the gates. There was a long queue outside the counter with new students waiting to get hostel forms. 
 
 “When we came here at around 10:30am, I came to know the counter was closed due to the staff protest. They should do such things but not during work hours,” said Shivani, who has taken admission in the BSc course. 
 
 
