NAGPUR: A   lodged a complaint against her philandering husband Nishant Makde at   police station earlier this month. Now, another woman, who too claims to have been married to Nishant, is contemplating a complaint against him for luring her into a relationship and marrying her despite being married earlier.

 Sunanda (name changed) claims her parents were forced to cough up around Rs5.25 lakh by Makde and his family to set up a business when they got married May 2014. However, in March 2015, an unknown woman revealed that Makde had married her too. The other woman said Nishant had married her in December 2014. This was a shock for Sunanda. Initially, she refused to believe the other woman, but then decided to fight for justice when she learnt that Nishant had relations with three other women too.
 
 Sunanda mentioned in her FIR, a copy of which is in TOI’s possession, the information relayed to her by the other woman regarding Makde. She also narrated the manner in which her in-laws too harassed her. Apart from Makde, his father Nilay too has been booked in the   of Indian Penal Code by Rana Pratap Nagar police for subjecting Sunanda to cruelty at her in-laws’ place.
 
 It has come to fore that the other woman, who had informed Sunanda about her husband’s cheating, is a student of a reputed government medical college and hospital. Police sources also claimed that a probe revealed that a doctor from a well-known private hospital at Dhantoli, and another student of hotel management too were close to Nishant. Senior officers have expressed surprise how Nishant, who claimed to be a software engineer, managed to hoodwink educated women and make them fall into his trap, without verifying his background.
 
 DCP, Zone-I, Deepali Masirkar, after learning about Sunanda’s plight, ensured assistance from the police station and prompt registration of offence against Makde. “Prima facie, the accused in the case of 498A IPC seems to have targeted various other woman too without disclosing his marital status and other details. We are trying to consider all options to ensure that the culprit cannot take shelter under legal provisions after victimizing so many women,” she said.
 
 Masirkar also met the student of the government medical college and another woman to gather evidence against Nishant.
 
