LUCKNOW: Whether he wins or loses, there’s one thing going for   in these elections that would be the envy of all his opponents — the surging, enthusiastic crowds at his public meetings.

 This is more than evident at the very first stop of his daylong campaign trail in the districts of east UP. As the chopper hovers over the venue in Tulsipur assembly segment in Balrampur district on Thursday morning, the crowd roars in anticipation. The CM steps out, leaving behind his favourite set of headphones and mobile on the seat, and thousands of eager men and women break through the barricades to get a closer view.
 
 The young chief minister heads straight to the restless mass of supporters, shakes hands with some of them and triggers a stampede of sorts for a selfie with “Akhilesh bhaiyya”. Across the venue, spirited supporters are perched on roofs of buildings and water tanks. Some girls have climbed on trees to get a glimpse of “bhaiyya”.
 
 Akhilesh is scheduled to address seven public meetings through the day. So he bypasses the formalities of receiving bouquets and felicitations from district leaders. Climbing on the stage, he takes the mike away from the announcer and starts speaking.
 
 “Ganga maa ki kasam kha ke batayen PM sahib, humne Varanasi mein 24 ghanta bijli di ki nahi (Please swear by the Ganga Mr PM and say whether I’ve given 24-hour power supply to Varanasi or not),” he says, continuing his one-on-one word battle with Narendra Modi.
 
 “I talk about laptops and smartphones, but the prime minister raises shamshan-kabristan (cremation ground–graveyard) and pushes the nation towards communalism and religious frenzy,” he continues. “They should be ashamed of the way they have even communalised nature — water and electricity.”
 
 The speech lasts 40-45 minutes and then the chief minister hurriedly boards the chopper and then heads out to the next stop. The list for the day is long — Pachperwa and Utraula in Balrampur, Katra Bazaar, Karnalganj and Tarabganj in Gonda, and Rudauli in Faizabad.
 
 Having already addressed more than 110 rallies in the past 45 days, Akhilesh knows his role is cut out. There’s no Mulayam Singh Yadav, Shivpal Yadav or Mohammed Azam Khan to share the burden.
 
 “I have not rested even for a day since I hit the campaign trail,” he tells TOI as he flies to the next destination.
 
 Akhilesh’s campaign acknowledges that he is a lone warrior, fighting the battle outside as well as within the party. “You know this is my election. Even if your candidate, MLA or minister has failed to complete some developmental work, please vote for me and my name. If I become chief minister only then will your MLA be a minister,” he reminds the swelling crowd.
 
 Having stepped out of his father’s shadow, Akhilesh knows too well that SP’s trump card now is his charisma, unblemished image and lack of anti-incumbency. In almost every meeting, he pitches his pro-development image and the fact that his plans and programmes are for all — irrespective of caste, creed and community.
 
 “I have distributed pension to 55 lakh women, nearly 20 lakh laptops, what have you done, Mr Prime Minister? We have heard lots of mann ki baat. Now the time has come to do some ‘kaam ki baat’,” he says, repeating the lines he has said at countless other rallies.
 
 As the sun sets in the background, Akhilesh addresses the last rally for the day at Rudauli in Faizabad. The day’s toil hasn’t blunted the CM’s speech.
 
 “Humne ‘ka’ se kabootar padha hai, na ki Congress (we were taught the Hindi letter ‘ka’ stands for kabootar). For you it may stand for Kasab, but for us pigeon stands for peace and harmony,” he says.
 
 “And mind it, on March 11, when the UP assembly elections results would be declared, you will be shocked,” he adds.
 
 Through the day, Congress workers or leaders have been conspicuously absent at the rallies. Congress flags are few and far between. Akhilesh talks about his alliance with the Congress but doesn’t dwell on it.
 
 In Muslim-dominated constituencies such as Karnalganj in Gonda, Akhilesh takes care not to address Mayawati as “bua”. “Beware of phuphi (Urdu for aunt) as she has joined hands with the BJP thrice in the past and she may do it again”. The phuphi taunt instantly draws applause.
 
 After one public meeting, Akhilesh is held up because the chopper is being refuelled. He walks calmly into the crowd and asks a boy, “Apne mobile se koi gana sunao hume (Play a song for me from your mobile)”. Instantly, the phone churns out one of SP’s campaign songs: ‘Baby ko bass pasand hai, UP ko ye saath pasand hai.’ Apparently, this is Akhilesh’s way of de-stressing.
 
 Returning to Lucknow after the hectic day, Akhilesh tries to remain energetic despite having skipped lunch. He talks to co-passengers about the roads and bridges he had built during his tenure, hardly betraying the inner turmoil of a man who has risked all in a high-stakes gamble that will make or mar his future.
 
