PATNA: The actual construction of piers (pillars) on the six-lane Kachchi Dargah-Bidupur bridge over the Ganga is expected to commence from March 10.

 The ADB entered into an agreement with the government of India on November 15 last year for extending a loan of USD 500 million (Rs 3,000 crore) for the ambitious bridge project in Bihar.
 
 “Work will soon begin on a new piece of infrastructure that will help fill the urgent need for bridge connections in Bihar. The new Ganga bridge, supported by ADB, will be built 10km downstream and east of the capital   and is likely to be India’s longest river bridge with a length of almost 10km,” said a blog on the ADB website by Saleha Waseem, operations communications specialist of South Asia regional department in the ADB.
 
 CM Nitish Kumar commissioned the construction work of the bridge in presence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his sons Tej Pratap Yadav and   on January 31 last year.
 
 The state government in September last year decided to acquire 312.77 acres of land by invoking “urgency” clause under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. This clause allows bypassing time-consuming processes such as social impact assessment and public hearing, if the project in question involves either national security, national calamities, sovereignty of state or any other emergency.
 
 As for the current status of the bridge project, Bihar State Road Development Corporation’s CGM Vijay Shanker said a JV of the Daewoo Engineering and Construction Company and the L&T India has been appointed to execute the project. A link road has almost been constructed on the Patna side for mobilisation of equipment. “We hope to commence the work on the well-foundation for the bridge’s first pier by March 10,” he said.
 
 The suspension bridge over the Ganga would be 9.76 km long with approach road of 13km. Estimated to cost Rs 4,988.4 crore, including the Rs 3,000crore ADB loan, the project is slated to be completed by February 2019.
 
 “The bridge will allow better traffic distribution on the international and regional trade corridors connecting the eastern, northern and north-eastern states of India with Nepal. It is expected to reduce traffic bottlenecks. This will be a boon for transit exporters in both countries,” reads Saleha’s blog.
 
