Gurgaon: Six years after the ruling by Delhi high court, chiding RWAs as ‘selfish giants’ — referring to a short story by Oscar Wilde — and rebuking them for preventing children from enjoying themselves, ‘selfish’ elders are back in the news. This time, it’s in Gurgaon, for preventing kids from playing in parks and playgrounds. Instead of RWAs, the objections are coming from some residents.

 The issue has always been a contentions one. In 2011, the Delhi high court, while hearing a petition by Rajinder Nagar RWA pleading children should not be allowed to play in local public parks, had ruled that “no one can prohibit children from using a park as a playground”. 
 
 This time, TOI has received reports from various blocks in   that some residents are objecting to children playing in parks. Aggrieved children told TOI the “hegemony” of a few residents of South City was unwarranted. “Whenever we to go to play cricket or any other ball game in the park, some residents create a ruckus over one pretext or another, and force us to leave our games midway,” said Ranvijay Singh, a Class XII student who lives in South City 1.
 
 Ranvijay said on Saturday, some residents prevented them from cycling in the neighbourhood park. “They told us they pay for the park. But so do our parents,” he said. “This was the third confrontation in the past month. They don’t let us play cricket, football or volleyball. When we tried reasoning with them, they shouted us down stating we were ruining the park.”
 
 Anubhav Ehlawat, another young boy who lives Block C, South City 1, said, “There are two parks near our home. We used to play in the bigger one. For several months, some residents living close by have been confronting and heckling us. Society members then reached an agreement that the smaller park would be left aside for the elders to stroll. We stopped going there. But they aren’t honouring the agreement. To prevent us from playing in the parks, they got truckloads of earth to level the entire ground, leaving huge piles of mud.”
 
 Anubhav said they don’t have any place to play now. “We’re forced to play on the streets. There is a similar issue in Block A as well. Not all residents object. It’s just 2-3 of them who live close to the park. There was a lull all this month as we had board exams. Now that our exams are over and we want to play again, the issue has cropped up again.”
 
 Regarding residents’ complaints that their window planes get smashed by stray balls from the  , Ranvijay said residents could easily place a net around the playgrounds. “But they won’t do it. They would rather place barricades and barbed wires,” he said, bristling with fury.
 
 When TOI spoke to one of the ‘selfish giants’, she said. “RWA’s have failed to maintain this park, so we have for it to pay out of our own pockets. Why should we let anybody ruin it? Besides, we just want to stop the kids from playing ball games.”
 
 Simran Dixit, another resident of Block A, told TOI the issue had assumed serious proportions. “Earlier, children used to play during the evening, after coming back from schools. Nowadays, there are some playing in the park any time of the day. That’s why my husband just decided to clear the rubble on a vacant plot nearby. We pooled money to get the debris cleared and built basketball courts on it, for the children to play there,” she said.
 
 M K Sharma of the South City 1 RWA questioned the wisdom of allowing youngsters to play in the park. “How can they be allowed? What if they hit the kids, elderly people and women while playing football or cricket in the parks?”
 
 But youngsters believe the argument doesn’t hold. “It was already decided upon that of the two parks in our area, we could use the bigger one to play, while the elderly could stroll in the smaller one. All their concern seems to come out when teenagers want to play ball,” Anubhav said.
 
 An MCG spokesperson said individuals weren’t entitled to bar entry of anybody in public parks. “However, if there is a private park, owned, developed and maintained by residents of private societies or condominiums, they may have their own guidelines.”
 
 
