Ariyalur: The national commission for scheduled caste (NCSC) has directed the Ariyalur district collector and superintendent of police to thoroughly inquire the death of S Anitha, the dalit girl from Kuzhumur village in the district who committed suicide after failing to secure an MBBS admission owing to poor NEET score. The commission also instructed the inquiry committee to table the report within 15 days. 

 Speaking to reporters after visiting the family members of the girl here on Saturday, of NCSC vice-chairman L Murugan said that the family members of Anitha said that the girl committed suicide as she could not get MBBS seat owing to poor performance in NEET. However, the commission has taken the case suo motu on the basis of various complaints stating that the girl had taken the extreme step owing to mental pressure, he said.
 
 “Though Anitha got a seat for pursuing studies in veterinary and agriculture, she committed suicide for being unable to secure an MBBS seat owing to poor marks in NEET. But some complaints we received said that she took the extreme step owing to some mental pressure mounted on her. Based on the complaints, the commission has taken the case up suo motu,” he said.
 
 The district collector and superintendent of police will be head of the panel formed by the commission. They would conduct inquiries and would submit their findings within 15 days, Murugan said. 
 
 “The commission has nominated district collector G Laxmi Priya and superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar to probe the incident and have been asked to submit their report within 15 days,” he added.
 
 He also said that the commission would recommend the government to sanction Rs 25 lakh as solatium to the family members of Anitha, he further said. 
 
 The commission members also met the residents of the village and enquired about the incident along with the district collector, superintendent of police and Aadi Dravidar welfare department director Mathiazhagan and two investigating officers.
 
 
