SURAT: Despite being the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre, Surat is being ignored by the customs department of   when it comes to providing   (PCCCC) at Surat Hira Bourse, the lone   (IDC) of diamonds, gemstones and jewellery that is operated by Diamond and Gems Development Corporation (DGDC). 

 At present, SHB has the status of cargo transfer manifest (CTM), which takes around four days for imported diamonds to be delivered to traders, unlike the same day dispatch facility at PCCCC under precious cargo transfer manifest (PCTM) operated by Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) at   (BKC) in Mumbai. 
 
 Sources said over Rs1.25 lakh worth of diamonds are imported and exported per annum. Over Rs40,000 crore worth of export and import from the   is handled by SHB. Most of the clients of SHB are importers. 
 
 Recently, diamonds worth Rs30 crore belonging to a couple of diamond exporting companies in the city were held up by the customs department on the grounds that SHB has not complied with electronic data interchange (EDI) system and non-payment of bank guarantee (BG). SHB has been allowed to export the goods through the manual system till February 20. 
 
 Official sources said the goods were held up for more than three days by the customs department and they were finally released after SHB put up a strong case. 
 
 “The customs department does not ask for bank guarantee if the goods are exported through PCCCC under PCTM run by BDB in Mumbai. When it comes to Surat, SHB is forced to pay bank guarantee of Rs100 crore for export of diamonds of equivalent value. Diamonds are precious cargo and their value is in crores. Thus SHB cannot provide bank guarantee every time,” an official said.
 
 Aniruddha Lidbide, diamond analyst, said, “Surat is ignored on all fronts, be it international airport, domestic connectivity or providing better facilities for import and export of diamonds. If all the facilities are provided at Surat, then there can be manifold increase in export and import from the industry and traders and manufacturers need not depend on Mumbai.”
 
