Kolkata: Three of the seven Bengal towns that voted for new municipalities on Sunday witnessed widespread violence, with the Left Front, Congress and   demanding cancellation of   in these three municipalities, even withdrawing their candidates in Raiganj and Domkal.

 Trinamool chief and Ben-gal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will call on Congress president   in Delhi on Tuesday, reportedly to find common ground on a united non-BJP candidate for the presidential polls, but the Delhi entente has evidently failed to end the bitter rivalry at the ground level.
 
  Violence was reported from all the three plains towns that went to vote — Pujali in the south (South 24-Parganas), Domkal in the middle ( ) and Raiganj in the north (North Dinajpur) — though the four Hills towns that voted for new   agencies (Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik) were peaceful.
 
 State Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury petitioned PM Narendra Modi against alleged rigging of local polls. He wrote to Modi and home minister  . The state election commission refused to either confirm or deny reports of large-scale violence. The ele-ctions were fair and peaceful, maintained TMC.
 
 Marauding bike-borne miscreants, bombs, broken EVMs and panicked voters remained the recurring sights all through the day in Pujali, Domkal and Raiganj. Election officials cowered in fear and fled polling booths at some places and cops, responding to reports of violence, themselves became targets as bombs and stones became the favoured weapons to intimidate opposition workers. The Congress-CPM combine tried to match the Trinamool firepower in Domkal but, at both Raiganj and Pujali, it was an unequal battle.
 
 Congress set off the candidate-withdrawal process in Raiganj and was followed by the LF and BJP. The same was repeated in Domkal. 
 
 State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury even shot off a letter to his party chairperson on Sunday evening, saying, “It is important to rope in support of all political parties to oppose a BJP-RSS nominee at the national level (for the Presidential polls). At the same time it is neccesary to emphasise our abiding committment to transparency and democracy. Under your leadership and guidance, Congress workers in the state will continue to fight for democracy and secularism and oppose both TMC and BJP in the state.”
 
 In Kolkata, Left Front and Congress supporters resorted to a road-block and sit-in-demonstration in front of the election commission’s office, claiming the poll body had failed to conduct free and fair elections. State election commissioner A K Singh’s refusal to accept their deputation also prompted Congress to lodge an FIR against him at the Shakespeare Sarani police station. Congress also indicated they were exploring legal options against the state commission.
 
 “We want the elections to be countermanded as the ruling party has unleashed terror at all the places where elections are being held,” CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said. Chowdhury demanded countermanding of the elections alleging booth-capturing by Trinamool supporters. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha also demanded that the elections be countermanded and fresh polls be declared. “The commission should cancel today’s elections and fresh polls should be held with central forces in charge of security,” said Sinha, formerly the state BJP chief.
 
 
