Bathinda: Despite the state government taking a tough stance against  , the orders to not set the crop residue on fire are being openly defied in Punjab countryside. According to the government data, wheat was sown in nearly 35 lakh hectares in Punjab.

 Farmers are undeterred by penal actions like registration of FIRs and imposition of fines. Some farm organization have already cautioned the state government to withdraw the cases and fines imposed on farmers for burning straw. They would start collectively burning it from May 10, the farmers’ associationeffiggue9-is have said and demanded compensation of Rs 2,000 per acre and eight hour of power supply to farm sector every day to make them prepare the fields for fresh sowing without burning straw.
 
 In all this the environment is getting polluted and farmers seem least bothered about it, said an official.
 
 “Farmers on Sunday collectively burnt straw at villages Dhaula, Pakhoke, Badra in Barnala district, Aklia, Bhainibagha in Mansa district. We are preparing to burn effigy in many more villages if the state government not met our demands”, said farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugraham general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri, while openly defying the state orders.
 
 The state pollution control board, agriculture department and the districts are keeping watch over burning of straw through remote sensing. Nearly 200 farmers have been fined in various districts till May 3. On Thursday (May 4), seven farmers were fined Rs 17,500 for burning straw in Muktsar district. The state government has fixed fine of Rs. 2500 for burning straw in field yup to 2 acres, Rs. 5000 for field up to 5 acres and Rs. 15,000 fine for burning straw in over 5 acres. The majority of the fines till now have been imposed are respectively Rs. 25000 and 5000, said a state government official.
 
 “The Adesh institute of medical sciences and research (AIMSR) had in January 2016 carried out extensive study to document adverse health effects associated with stubble burning. The survey showed that nearly 85% people from all age groups suffered from one or the other health problems because of smoke”, said associate professor at AIMSR Vittul K Gupta.
 
 We too are against burning of straw but as we have no other option we are forced for it. The alternatives suggested by state agriculture department are costly affair and the cooperative sector is not much effective in villages which may make farmers to use the farm machinery on rent basis. If state is so serious, it should provide farm machinery at very cheap rates to village agriculture societies”, said another farm organisation BKU Ekta Dakonda vice president Manjit Singh Dhaner.
 
 Bathinda deputy commissioner Diprave Lakra said, “We are taking the burning of straw very seriously and fines are imposed after getting pictures through remote sensing but despite that farmers are burning it.”
 
 
