BENGALURU: A day after the budget, the state assembly failed to transact any business after the Speaker denied opposition BJP a chance to discuss the diary of alleged donations to Congress brass. The House was adjourned around 4pm on Thursday.

 Opposition leader   sought to move an adjournment motion to debate the diary, allegedly seized from Congress MLC K Govindraj during income tax raids last year. Rejecting the motion, Speaker   said the subject would be discussed later.
 
 Meanwhile, law minister TB Jayachandra raised a point of order, saying the subject was not meant to be spoken about in the assembly. Koliwad upheld it, and withdrew the permission granted for the discussion.
 
 This led to a dharna inside the well of the House, with BJP members claiming the rights of MLAs were being infringed upon. Shettar claimed the diary's entries put the government in a bad light, and the matter must be discussed in the interest of the public. CM Siddaramaiah dismissed the allegations, saying the contents cannot be of any consequence considering that the Supreme Court termed the Sahara-Birla diary, which pointed towards   allegedly receiving huge sums of money as Gujarat CM, “in consequential“.
 
 Siddaramaiah said if the opposition wants to discuss the entries of the Govindraj diary, a discussion should also be encouraged on the diary allegedly seized from BJP MLC Leher Singh's home, which contained entries on sever al BJP national leaders. The opposition retorted by saying they were willing to discuss the matter if the speaker allowed it. With the opposition in no mood to relent, the house was adjourned abruptly.
 
 Later, Shettar told media the government had exerted influence on Koliwad to withdraw the permission. He said the BJP intends to seek the resignation of the sitting Congress ministers named in the diary via abbreviations. “We have in possession the copy of a police complaint filed by Govindraj, which confirms a diary was found at his home. We want to ask the government what action has been initiated regarding the complaint,“ Shettar said.
 
 In the council
 
 In the legislative council, the Congress managed to thwart the BJP's attempts to move an adjournment motion on Diarygate. The BJP sought a CBI probe but home minister G Parameshwara requested the chairman not to accept the demand since it had already been discussed in the previous legislature session.
 
 “The BJP has no moral right to talk about corruption since many of its leaders, including a former CM, went to jail,“ said Siddaramaiah.
 
 Anticipating the BJP's reaction, Congress members displayed placards and newspaper cuttings about reports of the diary allegedly seized from Leher Singh, which contained information of Rs 391.5 crore allegedly paid to BJP leaders and others.
 
 Council chairman D H Shankarmurthy said a similar matter cannot be taken up in two different sessions of the legislature.
 
