After the Supreme Court upheld the death penalty for the   case accused, women who have spent a considerable amount of time in Delhi speak about Pune being a far safer city when compared to the capital

  Almost five years after the heinous Nirbhaya gang rape and murder incident in Delhi, the Supreme Court has upheld the death penalty for the four accused in the case. While the decision was welcomed by many, the situation in Delhi is far from better; a prime reason why many girls from the capital have decided to settle in other cities and never return. Pune has a lot of students and working professionals who have either grown up in the capital or spent a considerable amount of time there. And the unanimous sentiment among all of them is that Pune is a much better city in terms of   and   for women, than Delhi.
 
  “Being born and brought up in Delhi, I always thought of it as a safe city. It was only after I moved to Pune that I realised what safety actually meant. I never went out of the house after 10 pm when in Delhi, but here I work and even party till late. I can wear shorts or skirts without having to worry about safety issues. If you ask me whether I would want to move back to Delhi now, my answer would be no. I never want to move out of Pune,” says Heena Grover Menon, a PR professional who moved to Pune five years ago.
 
  Like Heena, there are plenty of Delhites who have made Pune their home. Ankoura Verma, a marketing and communications manager at a city-based hotel feels that Puneites are more respectful towards women when compared to people from the capital. “Having spent a lot of time in the capital, I can vouch for the fact that Pune is much safer than Delhi by all means. Here, I don't have to worry about returning home late. I have been out even past midnight and have never faced any kind of uncomfortable situation or eve teasing. Back in Delhi, my parents would be worried if I was out late. Puneites respect women and that's what sets Pune apart,” she shares.
 
  There are women who also find Puneites very helpful, something that people in Delhi lack. Neha Munot, an advertising professional who shifted to Pune after graduating from the Fore School of Management in Delhi, confesses on missing home during her initial days. But three years after settling in Pune, she has no plans of moving back to Delhi. “Pune, in every aspect, is a better city. I have gone out partying and returned home as late as 2 am without facing any issues. During my initial days in the city, I was very bad at navigating the roads but people here made sure to guide me properly . Asking for help in the capital is something I can't even think of. They will surely misguide you. Now, I am even convincing my parents to move to Pune,” she says.
 
  Chitra Shewade, who lived in Delhi for over a decade and is currently residing in Pune, says, “Delhi has a large number of migrants who are jobless, hence the rise in crime. On the contrary, Pune is cultured and far better than the capital.”
 
  Even for girls who have been to the capital for a short while, the experience hasn't been a good one. Snehal Waware, a Puneite who studied in Delhi, informs, “In Delhi, it was an unsaid rule that girls couldn't venture out after dark. We used to return to the campus latest by 8 pm and preferred to stay in a group even when it was not very late. In Pune, the feeling of safety comes from within. You are not worried about travelling late or using public transport.”
 
  Similar is the case with Vidula Sonagra, a city-based professional who has studied in Delhi. “The population in Delhi is very unevenly distributed. There are pockets where you will find lots of people. But, after a few kilometres suddenly there is no one around. This instils a sense of fear. However, that's not the case with Pune's and you can always call someone for help,” she says.
 
 
