GHAZIABAD: A 22-year-old BCom student, who worked part-time at a hospital, was shot on Tuesday evening at the reception desk by her neighbour, a 23-year-old man who had apparently been pursuing her for months but was rebuffed. The man, Bobby, then turned the gun on himself.

 Both died, the woman on the spot and Bobby hours later at a private hospital.
 
 Bobby had stormed into   in Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar, around 7pm and walked straight towards the reception desk to confront Jyoti Gautam. The student had taken up an evening front office job there.
 
 Jyoti’s colleague Priyanka told the police Bobby had started a conversation with Jyoti, which turned into an argument. He then suddenly pulled out a gun (a country-made weapon) and shot Jyoti in the chest, police said. 
 
 The woman collapsed to the ground. Before people around could react, Bobby had loaded another bullet in the gun and shot himself in the chest too.
 
 Police said Jyoti and Bobby lived in Vijay Nagar’s Sector 9. “Bobby was stalking her for several months and, a couple of days ago, she had rebuked him and that probably angered him,” a police officer said, quoting Priyanka.
 
 The officer said Jyoti, who was working as a receptionist at Life Line hospital for one and a half years, died at the spot while Bobby succumbed to the bullet injury at MMG hospital.
 
  “Both Jyoti and Bobby suffered single bullet injuries,” said Neeraj Kumar Singh, SHO, Vijay Nagar police station. “Initial investigation has revealed Bobby knew Jyoti as they were neighbours and was infatuated with her but Jyoti spurned his advances and they had an altercation days ago. Bobby, armed with a country-made pistol, came to the hospital and after engaging her in conversation shot her from point-blank range,” Singh said.
 
 Chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital J K Tyagi said, “Both were brought to the hospital around 8 pm. Jyoti was declared brought dead and Bobby died minutes later. Police said Bobby’s parents had passed away and he lived with his grandparents. Neither’s family could be reached.
 
