NAGPUR: Bringing its agenda of building toilets and shelters for underprivileged urban population and providing hygienic sanitation in rural areas of Vidarbha, Rajan Samuel, managing director of Habitat for Humanity, India, was in the city on Saturday to drum up support from the   sector.

  The NGO plans to take housing and sanitation to at least two lakh homes in the region over the next couple of years. 
 
 Samuel spoke to TOI ahead of his meeting at   (VIA).
 
 “We are here to tap the industries of the city and region to muster bridge funding and capital,” Samuel said. Elaborating upon his organization’s engagement with Nagpur and Vidarbha he informed that so far they have collaborated with a local NGO to build 1800 toilets in individual households in Nagpur and have made 1400 houses in different districts of Vidarbha including Amravati and Yavatmal. 
 
 “A twin pit toilet requires Rs 25,000 to build. Of the cost 50% is subsidized by the government but we get the funds only when the work is done. So there is a requirement for raising the other 50% and also the bridge capital for the amount invested by us on behalf of the government,” he said.
 
  “We want to conduct this   dialogue with the VIA to convince them that this funding has a better impact in terms of returns on investment. The corporates have to understand that they are creating an asset which is like a safety net for the poor,” he added. So far the corporates have been focusing only on education and health, he said.
 
  is looking to scale up its initiatives by having a footprint in all 11 districts of Vidarbha.
 
  “There are specific government schemes now which focus strongly on hygiene, housing and sanitation. The public, people, private partnership is the best module to develop these areas,” he says and adds, “We want five to ten corporates to come together and adopt one village for this work. We will take it up on a one family one village one district basis at a time.”
 
 Considering the current rate of migration from rural to urban areas, by 2030 one third of the total population will be living in cities. “Our focus is on activities which will help in reversing this trend for which we require an integrated and holistic approach,” Samuel says. 
 
 “We have devised a community driven Behaviour Change Communication programme for this purpose,” he adds.
 
