PATNA: CM   on Monday rejected the BJP’s demand to postpone the proposed world’s largest   formation in Bihar on January 21 in the wake of Saturday boat tragedy that claimed 24 lives in the state capital. 

 “The proposed human chain is a ‘purely social campaign’ to highlight prohibition and de-addiction. The programme is sponsored by the state government. It will be formed on its scheduled date on January 21 between 12.15pm and 1pm across the state and its total length will be more than 11,000km. The preparations for the human chain is being monitored at the level of chief secretary,” CM told reporters after his ‘Lok Samvad’ programme here.
 
 Responding to a query whether the proposed human chain is being deferred in the wake of the opposition’s demand, CM quipped that had the BJP postponed its programmes in Uttar Pradesh after the Kanpur Dehat train mishap. “They continued with their programmes in UP despite the fact that the Indore-Patna train had derailed in that very state. Though I had cancelled the release of first report card of the grand alliance government,” CM said. 
 
 He also said the preparations for the human chain was going on in full swing and the DMs and SPs of the respective districts had been made responsible for proper arrangements. Around two crore people would participate in the longest human chain that will become an example across the world.
 
 “We have appealed to all the people and political parties to join the human chain. The political parties which will join the human chain will receive a big ‘thanks’ from me. Proper guidelines have been issued to officials about how to monitor the entire event. No vehicle, except some exempted ones, will ply on the roads for around an hour during the human chain formation,” CM said.
 
 A state government official monitoring the preparations for the human chain on Monday said altogether three satellites, including one foreign and two of   (ISRO), four aircraft, two helicopters and 40 drones would be used to click images of the world's longest human chain stretching over 11,000km in support of prohibition. 
 
 
