Kolhapur: The state level authorities are going visit the district next week to study the impact of the goods and services tax ( ) on various stakeholders. 

 The central government has rolled out the new tax regime from July 1. Every day the helpline and e-mail service started by the GST unit of Kolhapur is getting 40 to 60 complaints and requests from traders, accountants and, most importantly, the consumers who are facing overcharging of many regularly used items. 
 
 Sachin Joshi, deputy commissioner of GST, said, “The state team will draw conclusions after observing the response of traders and other stakeholders to the new system. We are receiving 25 to 30 complaints and requests through the helpline and 8 to 10 mails demanding various notices and guidelines issued from time to time. Recently, we met 18 associations related to various trade activities and registered their concerns. Through helpline and emails we respond immediately to the complaints.”
 
 Both the traders and the consumers have registered their concerns to the department. The concerns of traders are usually related to the GST rates of various items and procedural enquiries regarding filling of the returns, while the concerns of the consumers are related to over-pricing and lack of awareness related to change in the rates. The tax authorities denied the misconception that traders may undervalue the goods sold in hope to lessen the tax.
 
 “The system is made in such a way that every component of the trade chain needs to maintain the invoices and provide details while filling returns. If a trader is reporting that the goods sold are less, then it will be scrutinised with the help of invoices issued by the manufacturers. Also, if an undervaluation is committed, then the trader will not get tax benefit through input tax credit. The tax base is increasing as more traders are applying for registration with GST network. We have deployed six registration officers to handle the applications,” said Joshi.
 
 The registration and issuing of provisional identity numbers have been completed for traders who have migrated from the earlier value added tax or excise system. The central government has given a deadline of three months to the tax authorities to scrutinise the documents and issue final GST numbers which will be compulsorily printed on the invoices.
 
 
