Nagpur: Illegal occupancy at Nagpur University lower hostel at Law College Square continues to dog the administration as fresher’s are forced to either stay outside the hostel or share the allotted rooms with ex-students. The university has been trying hard to get the hostels vacated since June without success. Now, again an ultimatum has been served to illegal occupants to vacate the rooms by this week. The students were permitted to stay beyond the annual deadline of June 30 on special request made to the vice chancellor. “April 30 or two days after the last annual exam is the deadline to vacate the hostel rooms. But, many students were preparing for competitive exams and needed to stay back in the city. Therefore, the university allowed them to stay till June 30 as a special case,” Students Welfare director Dilip Kawadkar told TOI. However, the students, most of whom were in their final year of postgraduate courses, LLB or BEd, refused to leave despite several warnings. NU officials said the NU hostel committee may not be able to do much even this time. “The problem has persisted for several years. The students who are illegally staying belong to backward categories as well as poor financial background. This makes it an emotional issue rather than an administrative problem calling to be dealt with an iron hand,” they said. The officials added that over the years, these students are following a set pattern as they found their seniors indulging in. “Many students take admission only to stay at the hostel. After completing one course, they opt for another. While one is a legal occupant, he brings in two or three of his friends or fellow villagers to stay there for free. At the same time, they are also working outside,” they said. But, Kawadkar said that this time the university is seriously taking up the issue. He said he has chalked out a plan to solve the problem but refused to divulge the details. “I was waiting for the vice chancellor to return on Sunday. On Monday, I would discuss my plan with him. I need his approval before going ahead with plan.” The NU’s failure to curb the menace can be gauged from the fact that despite the pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole’s warning last month to send police to evict illegal inmates hasn’t yielded any result. Following a massive protest in September, the VC SP Kane, too, had expressed concern saying the illegal occupants at lower hostel had become a law and order issue. Lower hostel Capacity | 190 double bedded rooms Allotment | 360 inmates are given admissions to hostel Damaged rooms | 10 Admission date | Start of academic year between June and July Deadline to vacate | June 30 or two days after last exam