Puducherry: The project to restore the lost beach in the   town limits has yielded fruitful results as stretches of   have emerged opposite the   and south of Seagulls’ restaurant.

 The project, launched in March, will conclude by March 2018, said former secretary and present advisor to the Union earth sciences ministry Shailesh Nayak. 
 
 Nayak was in Puducherry on Tuesday and Wednesday leading a team to review the progress of the pilot project in the country to restore the lost beach. The team included former director of the National centre for earth sciences M Baba and delegates from the National institute of ocean technology, Puducherry government officials and representatives of civil society. 
 
 The team inspected Ariyankuppam   mouth to review the progress of the dredging process and performance of the sand bypassing system. They took note of the problems encountered during dredging and bypassing sand and decided to evolve a course of action to clear the harbour mouth. They also reviewed the execution of allied activities as a part of beach nourishment project. The team after visiting the docks and sheds of the harbour were pleased by the natural regeneration of mangroves along the banks of   estuary. 
 
 They also visited the old port area, the discharge point of sand nourishment project behind Seagulls’ restaurant and noticed the formation of a sandy beach. They inspected the onshore submerged reef constructed opposite the chief secretariat. 
 
 “Former secretary and present advisor to Union earth sciences ministry (Nayak) is one of those instrumental in launching the beach restoration project. He was pleased to notice the positive changes along the coast and formation of sandy beaches on both ends of the 1.2km-stretch beach road in the town. The construction of onshore submerged reef will conclude by March next year,” said Aurofilio Schiavina of Pondicherry Citizen Action Network (PondyCAN).
 
 The project included construction of a 4m high equilateral triangular structure (onshore submerged reef) opposite the chief secretariat on the Beach Road. Each side of the structure measures 125m. While the base is along the coast, the tip projects into the sea. The structure has slowed down the movement of sand along the coastline towards the northern side leading to the formation of sandy beach. The port department dredged the sand accumulated in the harbour mouth and deposited it behind the Seagulls’ restaurant leading to the formation of sandy beach there. 
 
 Now, work is progressing in full swing to create a module by covering the seawall made of groynes with sand and planting dune vegetation so as to hold and stabilize the sand and wall. Puducherry government plans to launch additional nourishment of the beach next year to compensate the current year’s deficit. Similarly, the government proposes to extend the beach nourishment activities to the north covering the coastal villages in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 
