NAGPUR: Eager to expedite the growth of basketball in India, the National Basketball Association ( ) picked 21 young cagers for its maiden Academy, an elite basketball training centre in the country.

 Over 2,500 players took part in the three-month nationwide tryouts held in six cities. Experienced NBA coaches conducted these open tryouts and selected 45 best prospects for the three-day national final that concluded at the Jaypee Greens in Noida on Saturday.
 
 Country's first-ever NBA academy will take care of the overall development, besides basketball, of these 21 cagers — with three more to be included in a couple of months. With an aim to groom cagers at a young age the NBA in India will develop the talent to compete at the highest international levels.
 
 At 13, 6-foot-1 tall,   of Kolkata is the youngest player picked for the academy and will play alongside 17-year-olds Sejin Mathew and M Shanmugam of Kerala and Chennai respectively.
 
 NBA's first talent hunt program was the brainchild of NBA-India's managing director Yannick Colaco. "Our aim with this academy is to develop and grow basketball in India," Colaco told TOI.
 
 He added, "These selected players will now have a solid platform to prepare for the opportunity to move into the professional ranks." 
 
 Meanwhile, 15-year-old Delhi point guard   said, "I have never played at the district level, and despite that, I have been selected for NBA Academy India through NBA Jump. I feel very proud to be selected. I am here because of the contribution and efforts of my parents. Since I missed my Delhi trial, my parents brought me to Kolkata. And that is how I am here today."
 
 Similarly Uttrakhand's 6-foot-6 forward   is upbeat about his inclusion. "Being one of the finalists of NBA jump and getting selected for NBA academy is a very happy moment for me, and especially for my father. I have taken one step forward to be a champion and my dream is to play in the  . I am here because of the contribution of my father, who is an international basketball player. He is my coach and I practice with him 4-5 hours daily. My selection today is because of my father's training."
 
 NBA's 5th training center globally and first of its kind in the country will be fully funded by the NBA and will be launched in April. 
 
 The NBA India is also in the process of selecting coaches, scouts and consultants who will staff and instruct at the academy. They have plans to admit top women cagers to train there soon after the facility begins operation.
 
 
  Manoj Sisodiya, Virat Dhakad, Brijesh Tiwari (all MP), Mohammad Ali (Kolkata), Riyanshu Negi, Prashant Rawat (Uttrakhand), Amaan Sandhu, Vivek Chauhan, Jagshaanbir Singh (all Punjab), Sejin Mathew (Kerala), Achintya Krishna (Karnataka), Rajveer Bhati, Digvijay Shekhawat (both Rajasthan), M Shanmugam, Arvind Kumar (Chennai), Shaurya Kohli (Delhi), Robin Banerjee (UP), Preshit Pawar, Suraj Phathak, Parth Sharma (all Maharashtra) and Rishabh Jaiswal (Chattisgarh).
 
