KOLKATA:   may respond jointly to the   Health Regulatory Commission’s suggested rates for treatment, which they have perceived to be too low. The rates — around 40% lower than what private hospitals usually charge — have been suggested on the basis of the state government’s Swasthya Sathi scheme. The Association of Hospitals of India (AHEI) is set to meet early next week to draft a joint response. Earlier, every   had been asked to respond individually by July 31.

 “We are looking at a consensus among our members, including all the corporate hospitals of Kolkata. The rates suggested are too low for us to be able to sustain our establishments. Every hospital has still looked into the possibility of rationalizing their rates but still they can’t be reduced to the level suggested. Since we are faced with the same problem, it would be better to respond jointly rather than each of us sending our suggestions separately,” said PL Mehta, AHEI president.
 
 Most private hospitals said they would prefer a joint response. “With the deadline less than two weeks away, we must decide on a course of action now. There is no reason why we can’t agree since all of us find the rates too low to implement. Big corporate hospitals have a very high establishment cost and overhead expenditure. In order to sustain, we must charge more than, say, smaller units like nursing homes,” said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 Medica Superspecialty Hospital CEO Alok Roy agreed. “We have done a fair bit of back-end research but the rates are impractical. So, it would be better if we respond together as a forum. We must remember that these Swasthya Sathi rates are just a suggested guideline. We are free to seek a hike,” he said.
 
 As per the commission’s suggestion, a single chamber ICD implant should cost Rs 2,80,000 while a double implant shouldn’t exceed Rs 3,50,000. A gastrectomy has to be priced at Rs 1,50,000 while the ceiling for an acute coronary syndrome package shouldn’t cross Rs 1,05,000 with stent. “These rates are enough to bring the curtains down on any private hospital. We must negotiate for a healthy hike, but that has to be done judiciously. We can’t push the commission too much since private hospitals have been under fire for several months now,” said a senior hospital official.
 
 
