LUDHIANA: Is it possible for a human to survive to the age of 263 years? The voters' list prepared by the district administration of Ludhiana says yes. Ashwani Kumar of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, whose age has been written as 263 years, is among the 336 voters of the district who are mentioned as above 100 years old. However, many of them are not over 60.

 Ashwani Kumar said he was 40 years old and officials made a mistake while writing his age. “I had applied for a new voter card, but did not receive it,“ he added.
 
 Samrala resident   has also applied for a new voter card. According to the list, her age is 132 years, while she is 32 years old. Her husband Rajinder Kumar, a bank employee, said they had moved to a new house a year ago and applied for new voter cards. “We have not received the cards yet, but three days back there was a phone call from the DC office that they wanted to honour my wife for being the oldest voter,“ he added.
 
 Another resident of Sehjo Majra village in Machhi wara, Seeta Devi, is 114 years old in the voters' list, but her son Pappu Chaudhary said she was 45 years old.
 
 Khanna resident  , who has been marked as 108 years old in the list, is 52 years old. Her husband Kashmir Singh is fed up with the phone calls and has thrice informed the block-level officer. He said, “I have been receiving calls from the administration to honour her... they say she is one of the older voters. I told them about the error. Despite repeated calls to rectify the mistake, nothing has been done.“
 
 “My son is only 27 years old, but he has been mentioned as 117 years old in the list. The department should take action against the officers responsible,“ said Mejar Singh of New Amar Nagar, near ATI College, Gill Road.
 
 Khanna's Dalip Singh is alive and 109 years old in the list, but he had died in 2011.His son said he had submitted the death certificate and still they did not strike off his name.
 
 District election officer and DC Ravi Bhagat said there might be a software error and that he has deputed two officials to rectify the list, which would be done shortly.
 
