BENGALURU: A two-member team from the Centre for Incubation, Innovation, Research and Consultancy ( ) at   in south Bengaluru, which has received Rs 30 crore from  , has applied for patent for a product that can stop bleeding in less than 90 seconds.

 “On a battleground, let’s say a medic locates a wounded soldier soaked in blood. This hypothetical situation is exactly what we sought to deal with and provide a solution for,” says M S Santosh, who has developed the product along with Divakara M B.
 
 The product, a carboxyl-linked graphene sponge (DAPGS), has uses similar to Axiostat, a sponge patented by city-based Leo Sebastian Mavely of Axiom that has already been supplying to the Indian Army and a few other armed forces for three years now. TOI had first reported about Axiostat, which reportedly can stop bleeding in 3-4minutes, in October 2016.
 
 “I know of Axiostat, it uses chitosan, a naturally occurring polymer (found in shellfish) which stops profuse bleeding in a few minutes. But our product is different. One, we use graphene. And, more importantly, our product has medicinal amino acid and a biocompatible protein that has been extracted from a tree,” Santosh says.
 
 Claiming that this is the first time that a medical chemical (amino acid) is used in such a product, Santosh says the protein extracted from bongamia tree helps prevent infection, which other products don’t have.
 
 
 
 
 The unique feature of DAPGS, Santosh says, is not only that it inherits the remarkable liquid absorbability from the cross-linked graphene sponge, but also enhances the interfacial stimulating ability to blood cells.
 
 “Ours is a haemostasis material that cannot only absorb plasma rapidly, but also stimulate erythrocytes and platelets to change their regular form and structure at the interface, which largely affects the bio-functioning of the cell, thus promoting blood coagulation,” he says.
 
 The low-cost material like graphene and amino acid, which are easy to synthesise, make the product commercially viable. “There’s a lot more work happening at the lab, and we are expecting more funding from the mutt, which wants this centre to be on a par with global research labs,” he says.
 
 
