KOLKATA: So what it’s just for four months, the closure of   from February 1 will be a big blow to thousands of residents in south Kolkata and its fringes. For almost a decade, the   has been a “part of life” and acquired a  

 But why has the news of a mall’s temporary shutdown drawn such hysterical reactions? For countless Kolkatans — especially those who came of age in the post-1991 era — South City mall was the new town square: a place to shop, eat, watch movies, gather or just aimlessly meander.
 
 Shreyas Surya Dasgupta is distraught. Something that had become so intrinsic to his social life and which he had over the years grown to take for granted will be gone. For others like Gautam Banerjee, the life revolves around South City Mall. They don’t know what’s in store for them. “I bought an apartment in Kudghat because it is located close to South City. Not only is it convenient for us to shop but the presence of South City also lends the place a social status. Next four months will be difficult for us,” said Banerjee, a banker.
 
 “I am a little upset hearing the news. I am a regular and visit it almost every week and spend good quality time there. Now I am wondering what I will do over the next four months,” said Dasgupta, who stays at Loudon Street and works for a real estate firm.
 
 The news has triggered scrambled among mall regulars to recalibrate their socialising plans. “From movies to eating, from shopping to meeting people, South City Mall was a one point destination for all. Now that the mall will be shut for months, I will have to look for new places,” said Jyotsna Bagri, a resident of Prince Anwar Shah Road.
 
 “Before South City Mall, there was hardly any place to call a decent hangout zone in this pocket of the city. South City Mall filled up that vacuum. Soon it became a way of life,” said Richa Sharma, a homemaker in Jadavpur.
 
 On any given day, you can spot groups of children wandering down the aisles or playing on escalators. Teenagers and adults click selfies and group photos, raving about the convenience, the notion of security the mall provides, the leisure and, in the gruelling summers the soothing air-conditioning.
 
 The emergence of South City mall coincided with the boom along the southern fringes of Kolkata, a pocket where it draws its maximum patrons. As time passed, it started reflecting the broad trends in the neighbourhood, including a growing middle class with spending power and the rapid expansion of several areas in the suburb that were little known outside the region. 
 
 “There’s anything you want,” said Sandip Ghosh, a resident of Baghajatin. “There are shoes, medicines, groceries, cake, everything you want. If the mall is shut for so many months we will have to make alternate arrangements. But the problem is that so apart from South City everything is not available under one roof.”
 
 
