AURANGABAD: The municipal administration has proposed   between the range of 20 to 25% for  . 

 The proposal for the property tax hike submitted by the administration indicates a hike across various categories including residential, commercial and institutional. The proposal will be placed before the standing committee in a meeting scheduled on Friday. 
 
 In the proposal, the municipal authorities mentioned that tax rates could not be revised in the last fiscal. A senior officer who preferred not to be quoted said tax hike would help the municipal body raise funds and eventually enable it to create new facilities for residents. “The city has been selected under the Union government’s smart city scheme in which we have planned world class infrastructure and facilities for Aurangabad. But to create these facilities, we need additional funds,” he said. 
 
 The municipal administration has categorized total number of properties in the city into seven different heads- residential, non residential (like offices, hostels) commercial, educational institutions, government properties, mobile towers and industrial. 
 
 Hike of Rs 0.25 to Rs 2.75 per square metre for residential category property owners has been proposed considering the type of building construction. There are four different sub-heads have been created under the main head in which owners with reinforced cement concrete (RCC) rooftops may have to bear highest tax hike. 
 
 The authorities have proposed Rs 0.5 to Rs 5.5 per square metre for the non-residential category, Rs 2.5 to Rs Rs 7 per square meter for commercial properties and a similar hike for other types of properties. 
 
 In commercial category, the municipal administration has proposed to hike rates in the range of Rs2.50 per square metre to Rs 7 per square metre while in the industrial category, 20% to 25% hike has been proposed. Industrial sheds within the municipal limits, go-downs, and other similar places may see hike if the proposal is approved in the standing committee meeting on Friday. 
 
 This proposed hike has been criticised by residents and coporators alike, and the ruling alliance in the   ( ) had out rightly rejected a similar tax hike proposal in the previous fiscal. 
 
