NEW DELHI: The Union urban development ministry has asked Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to renovate three important commercial centres —  , Bhikaji Cama and   Market — in the city. The work is likely to start as soon as  , responsible for their upkeep, hands over the areas to the land-owning agency.

 The decision was taken recently after the South corporation submitted a proposal of Rs 92 crore (approx) for Nehru Place. 
 
 “The ministry has given in-principle approval for all three projects and DDA is in the process of obtaining the no-objection certificate from the corporation,” said J P Aggarwal, principal commissioner of land disposal and housing, DDA.
 
 As part of the renovation work, DDA will repair pavement, development piazzas, repair facade of buildings, fix and construct toilets, pathways for pedestrians etc. Sources said DDA would take help from the apex planning body, UTTIPEC, and the traffic police to solve the problems of parking and traffic congestion in these areas. 
 
 The work will start at Nehru Place, lying in a pathetic condition for years now. While the footfall has gone up due to Metro connectivity, the market’s condition has gone from bad to worse, said traders. “If designed properly, a lot of space can be used for public. But the market is full of problems—manholes are missing, lanes are dirty, the area is poorly lit at night,” said Rajinder, a trader. 
 
 The proposal to renovate Nehru Place has been under consideration for nearly nine months. Following a TOI report on May 12, 2016, about the pathetic condition of the country’s biggest computer goods market, the UD ministry had sought a report from DDA. A joint inspection was carried out by DDA and the corporation to assess the condition and it was found that some buildings need urgent repair, said DDA officials.
 
 However, the corporation’s plan was found to be expensive and given its financial condition, DDA was chosen to fund and carry out the project. 
 
 While the modality is being worked out, traders are facing more problems as, they claim, the corporation has stopped working in the area. 
 
 “Sanitation has become a serious problem as the corporation is not cleaning the area regularly. We don’t know whom to contact as the work is yet to be transferred to DDA,” said J K Gupta, chairman of Nehru Place Welfare Association.
 
 Once the Nehru Place work is finalised, DDA will start work at Bhikaji Cama and Basant Lok. Redevelopment of Basant Lok Market has also been under consideration for a long time and traders have been running from pillar to post to get the work done.
 
 DDA will take up other commercial centres once these three projects are over, said officials. 
 
 
