Chennai: While demonetisation has helped push up digital transaction numbers, e-commerce players say the bigger picture is also ‘growing aspirational purchases in the rural hinterland.’  From Palakkad, Dhrol, Kargil to Nainital, consumers from rural and lower-income groups are choosing to shop for mobiles, electronic goods, kitchen appliances and medicines at e-commerce platforms over regular stores. Data from NPCI shows e-commerce transactions using RuPay cards increased more than three-fold to Rs 10.53 billion in January 2017 from Rs 3.06 billion in October 2016. In terms of volume of transactions, also RuPay card usage doubled to 12.55 million in January from 6.22 million in October. The demographics of RuPay card users is different from that of other card networks such as Visa and MasterCard as RuPay is more focused on financial inclusion and supports many government initiatives. About 65-70% of more than 300 million RuPay customers are first-time card users from rural and lower-income segments. “Our top categories in rural consumption was mobiles, fashion and consumer electronics and appliances. During the festival season in 2016, we saw 65% of orders from tier-2, tier-3 and rural segments,” said a Flipkart executive. “We received an education in pincodes as we were delivering to places as far-flung as Likabali, Namsai in Arunachal Pradesh or Dhing, Doom Dooma in Assam. We’ve even made deliveries at army bastions like Kargil in Kashmir, Jogewala in Punjab and Theog in Himachal Pradesh,” said the Flipkart executive. Snapdeal said that this growth is being driven on the back of better logistics and expansion in supply chain spread. “We were very keen on expanding access and improving user experience in tier-3, tier-4 and rural markets. In the last 18 months, we have been heavily focusing on end- to-end logistics through Vulcan, where we've had path-breaking innovations in warehousing, transportation, last mile and reverses journeys. With the Vulcan we are able to now deliver to 70% of rural consumers within 2 days. We are also trying to widen the spread from our current deliveries at top 10 metros, 80 key cities and hundreds of satellite towns,” said a Snapdeal executive. The growth has also been in part due to higher adoption of RuPay cards by both public and private sector banks. NPCI has also tied-up with wallets like SBI Buddy, MobiKwik, CitrusPay, ItzCash and ensured the card’s acceptance on more than 10,000 e-commerce websites. While for some rural consumers make aspirational online purchases, for others RuPay seems to be paving the way for necessities like medicine. Online pharmacist Netmeds sees a large number of its clients from rural segments.  “We see the biggest chunk of our drug sales from lifestyle and chronic illnesses such as diabetes, cardiovascular issues. While the average age group of our customers is between 24-36, we assume they are buying it for their aged parents in remote locations,” said Pradeep Dadha, CEO, Netmeds, which has over 1 million registered users.  “We see 50% of our sales from our mobile app and 50% from our online platform. Buying online can be a great savings to people in remote locations, who might otherwise have to expend a great deal of time and energy if they were to purchase the same drugs in brick-n-motor pharmacies,” said Dadha.