BENGALURU: When David, 23, left Israel for a vacation in India, his itinerary largely comprised beaches on the country’s western coast— in Goa and Karnataka. Little did he know that, during his brief sojourn in the country, he would undergo a medical procedure that lasted 11 hours, while in transit. David endured a 442km journey from Manipal in Udupi to Bengaluru, strapped to the   (ECMO) machine, which is commonly known as a  .

 Following a two-week stay in Goa, David arrived in Gokarna, where his breathing became irregular and laboured. He was rushed to the   (KMC) in Manipal, Udupi, where he was admitted into the coronary care unit. The echocardiogram tests that were initially conducted indicated very low heart function — just 15% of the blood was being pumped out of the ventricles in each contraction, as opposed to the normal rate of 55 to 70%.
 
 Professor and head of cardiology department at KMC, Dr Tom Devasia said, “David’s blood-pumping rate was 40% below normal. But his coronary angiography report was normal, and he was treated for myocarditis (an inflammation of the myocardium, the middle layer of the heart). To enhance the pumping rate, he was put on   (IABP) support.”
 
 Doctors at KMC consulted experts at Manipal Hospital, Bengaluru, who suggested they transfer David to the city. A team of cardiologists from Bengaluru left for Manipal, with all the necessary equipment, on two ambulances. On reaching Manipal, the doctors immediately shifted David to the ambulance and started their journey to Bengaluru in the middle of the night. While he continued to remain on IABP support, David was put on ECMO throughout the journey.
 
 Chairman of cardiovascular and thoracic surgery at Manipal Hospital, Bengaluru, Dr Devananda NS said, “The journey was risky. Had ECMO failed, we would have had to put the patient on ventilator. Moreover, the position of the patient was changing constantly, which could have disturbed the flow of ECMO. But our efficient team of doctors, nurses, perfusionists and ambulance personnel, ensured the patient reached Bengaluru safely.”
 
 A biopsy of his heart muscles revealed that David was already suffering from an auto-immune skin disorder, which was affecting the functioning of his heart. David underwent treatment at Manipal Hospital for ten days. “He was put on immunoglobulin therapy to which he responded well. Six days after we started the treatment, his heart started functioning normally, without the assistance of external blood or blood products. He was subsequently taken out of ECMO. He did not require ventricular assist device, which provides temporary circulatory support. He flew back to Israel on December 30, in perfect health to greet the New Year,” added Dr Devananda.
 
 Expressing his gratitude to the doctors, David said, “I got a second life because of the efforts of the doctors. I will soon come back to India for a second vacation. The doctors treated me like a family member. Not once did I feel I was in a foreign country.”
 
