 The state government on Tuesday congratulated Prime Minister   for launching ‘Saubhagya’ scheme on the lines of ‘Har Ghar Bijli’ scheme launched by   CM   on November 15 last year.
 
  “The Centre’s Saubhagya scheme for household electrification is inspired by Nitish government’s Har Ghar Bijli scheme,” state energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said. The minister added the state government has allocated Rs 1,896 crore for providing electricity to over 98 lakh above poverty line (APL) families under Mukhya Mantri Vidyut Sambandh Yojna, commonly known as Har Ghar Bijli scheme.
  
  “Senior officials from 16 states and Union power secretary A K Bhalla had lauded Bihar government’s Har Ghar Bijli scheme during a national workshop on ‘Universal household electrification’, held in Patna on August 8 and 9. Bhalla had said the electrification model of Bihar is quite impressive and other states should follow it,” the minister added.
  
  Sources in energy department said of the targeted 39,073 villages in the state, 38,596 have already been electrified. “Altogether 12,883 houses have been provided meter- based electricity supply,” the minister said.
  
  He added the Bihar government would be benefitted by Centre’s Saubhagya scheme. “The beneficiaries under Har Ghar Bijli scheme are required to pay Rs 2,200 in 10 easy instalments. However, central government’s Saubhagya scheme envisages payment of power installation charges to every household in the ratio of 60 (Centre):40 (state). The scheme also stipulates that payment would be made in the ratio of 75 (Centre):25 (state) for those states which would achieve the desired targets on or before the set deadline. Bihar is most likely to take the additional incentive as we are all set to achieve 100% electrification by December-end,” Bijendra said.
  
  The power minister claimed the Centre may also adopt Bihar government’s zero- subsidy based tariff plan soon. The state energy department has introduced a zero- subsidy based power tariff structure from the ongoing fiscal, under which subsidy is provided separately to the consumers and mentioned in the electricity bills.
