JAIPUR: Anxiety and worry turned into celebration when the   was informed by   that their 13-year-old son, who was kidnapped a week ago, has been rescued from   and one kidnapper has been arrested. 

 With coordinated efforts and technical surveillance, Fatehpur police also managed to detain four persons. 
 
 Dhruv Poddar, son of a jeweller, was kidnapped from his house in Sikar’s Fatehpur town on last Monday morning. The kidnapping gang had demanded Rs 70 lakh as ransom from the family. 
 
 Police have arrested the kingpin of the gang who kidnapped the boy. He was identified as Sajjid Beig (35) from Bandra locality in Mumbai. “The accused is settled in Mumbai but some of his relatives live in Fatehpur,” said an officer. 
 
 “Since the kidnap of the boy, all the nearby police stations and their officers cooperated with us. Everyone was on the job of providing clues. We located the boy in Bandra locality late on Sunday evening. Our team was already camping in Mumbai. Finally, on Monday morning the boy was rescued and the accused was arrested,” said Vinit Kumar, superintendent of police, Sikar, on Monday. 
 
 The SP added that they have also detained four persons in this connection. 
 
 “Our team has left for Fatehpur with the accused and rescued boy. Things would be clear only after they reach Fatehpur,” the SP added. 
 
 As the news reached the family in the morning, everyone including the mother of the boy Parvati Poddar, his father Lalit Poddar and elder sister Varsha Poddar couldn’t contain their happiness. Many locals also visited them and they distributed sweets. 
 
 “I am thankful to the police administration. Hopefully, my son would arrive on Tuesday,” said Lalit Poddar, while talking to TOI over phone from Fatehpur. 
 
 According to the police, the gang had also made a ransom call and demanded Rs 70 lakh from the family. 
 
 It may be recalled that the teenager boy was kidnapped from his house on May 15 when a youth came to their house and gave a wedding card to Lalit’s wife Parvati. “He told Parvati that he wanted to invite other relatives residing in nearby localities in Fatehpur. Claiming that he didn’t know the directions to the relatives’ houses, he requested Parvati to send her son Dhruv with him. Sending a child with a stranger was a big mistake on his mother’s part,” said a senior police officer. 
 
