KOLKATA: The manager of a popular pub in south Kolkata has been looking up directories and online search services since Sunday to find out a rare gadget in the city –  . But till Monday, he found none.

 That is a reality the cops may have overlooked when they had asked all bar and nightclub owners in the city to get breathalysers — a device for estimating blood alcohol content (BAC) from a breath sample -- by the last weekend of the month and test their patrons leaving their premises to find if they are too drunk to drive.
 
 “I scanned several web search services with a combination of keywords but could not find a single dealer that sells breathalyser in the city. I found a few on sites like Amazon and e-bay but I am not sure if I would buy those without any first-hand knowledge,” said the manager, who had been entrusted the job by his owners.
 
 He was not the only one in the quest of the most sought-after gadget right now in the city. TOI has found there are only three retailers in the city who at some point of time had sold breathalysers. One of them has closed the shop, the other has shifted to another business and the only one left — a retailer from Kaikhali near Kolkata airport had sold one almost two years ago.
 
 “A police officer of   commissionerate had bought it from me to test the device. Since then, I have never even received a query. But if there is a demand, I know a few dealers in Delhi from whom I can get you a breathalyser,” said Partha Pratim Biswas, who has his healthcare services store at Ghosh Para Road.
 
 Biswas, however, added, since the products are only assembled in India, and are majorly imported, it would take at least two weeks for the consignment to arrive after placing an order.
 
 Another bar owner who had attended the meeting with the cops said the officers had said local police stations would help them in procuring the gadgets. But according to a bar owner on  , when he called the police station, they said they had no clue.
 
 In India, four variants of breathalysers are mostly imported and available whose price varies between Rs. 3500 and Rs. 30,000. The ones on the higher side comes with a printer attached to it that gives a print out of the blood alcohol level along with the other details of the user while the ones on the lower side only reads the BAC on a digital meter.
 
 According to sources, breathalysers used by policemen and found in India are imported from China and   and are assembled mostly in Delhi and Haryana. Kolkata doesn’t have any assembling or manufacturing unit. An officer at the equipment section at Lalbazar said, the cops float tenders while procuring the gadgets and on all occasions, the tenders mostly come from Delhi-based units. 
 
 
