Anusha Nag

 The sun can be fun as long as the temperature is bearable. With the rising temperature this  , it is not easy to survive the heat. These simple,   ideas will help to keep you  .
 
 Start by cutting off the lower part of two plastic bottles (500ml pet bottles are ideal), making it look like a flap. Then, make a few holes (about 5-6 in number and 1cm in diameter). Fix the bottles upside down to a table fan using a steel flexible wire. Fill the bottles with ice, switch on the fan and enjoy the cool breeze. Once the ice melts, just open the cap from the bottom, pour out the water, and refill with fresh ice.
 
 
  Make your own cooling spray by adding two tbsp of aloe gel, three tbsp of witch hazel and 3-4 drops of peppermint essential oil to water. Fill this in a spray bottle and use it on your face for a cooling effect.
 
 
  Use dark curtains (not black) in the house and leave them shut, specially in the afternoon. Neither heat nor light will penetrate these curtains, leaving the house cool.
 
 
 Having your own terrace garden works wonders in the summer. However, make sure to water the plants regularly, as this will reduce the temperature inside the house by 6-8degrees. Not only will it increase oxygen levels, but it also reduces air and sound pollution in the surroundings.
 
 
 The good old table fan and hand fans are like a blessing in disguise in the summer. A table fan at the corner of your table or any place of frequent use is helpful and does not consume as much space as an air conditioner does. Hand fans are affordable and easy to make — just fold a sheet of paper multiple times and spread it out in the shape of a   — and can be used anywhere.
 
 
 All you need is a tissue roll, 1tbsp aloe vera, 2tbsp each of almond oil and peppermint essential oil, a cup of water and a container. Place the tissue roll in the container. Mix all the liquids in a separate bowl and pour the liquid all over the tissue and close the container. Later, remove the cardboard piece which will remove the first tissue out. Continue using the wipes from the centre.
 
 ALSO
 
 
 
 Make your own sunscreen with coconut oil (1/3 cup), shea butter (1/3 cup), beeswax (half cup) and non-nanoparticle zinc oxide (2tbsp). Melt coconut oil, shea butter and beeswax in a double boiler and mix until smooth. Add zinc oxide and blend. Pour into a tin container and leave it to set.
 
 
 
