Nagpur: The   (NMC) is hoping to regain its lost glory for featuring in top ten cities in the nation as the central government started three-day Swachh Survekshan 2017 in the city under   on Tuesday.

 A team of three members including Prasad Yedkar, Pranav Patel and Umrish Gorsiya from the centre’s Quality Council of India reached the city on Tuesday. The members visited the NMC. One of the members started to collect data from the civic body while the other two commenced inspection of various parts of the city. The survey will be continued for two more days.
 
 Municipal commissioner   gave presentation on the NMC’s projects and workings under Swachh Bharat Mission to the team. Additional municipal commissioner  , deputy municipal commissioner Jayant Dandegaonkar, director of NGO Centre for Sustainable Development Leena Budhe, solid waste management expert Ragini Jain and others were present.
 
 Hardikar informed the team that the NMC made 39 of total 72 wards open-defecation free. He also gave details about waste to energy project, sewage treatment projects, utilization of treated sewage for power generation, asphalting of roads using plastic, door-to-door garbage collection, construction of individual and public toilets etc.
 
 The team has divided the city in four parts-- East, West, South and North-- for survey. It will select one of four areas given by the NMC for survey to be done in slum, residential, commercial area, railway station, bus station, dumping yard etc.
 
 The team is uploading NMC’s data, inspection report and pictures online using GPS-based mechanism. The survey comprises 2,000 marks that are divided into four categories.
 
 The survey is done in 500 cities with population of over 1 lakh. The centre had started Swachh Survekshan with launch of Swachh Bharat Mission in 2015.
 
 In the first year, survey was done in 476 cities in which the city stood at 256th place inviting criticism. In second year, the survey was restricted up to 73 cities in which city stood at 20th. The survey is for 500 cities and hence it is difficult for big cities like Nagpur, with population of over 25 lakh, to compete with small towns that have a population o just 1 lakh and above.
 
 Considering the data to be submitted by the team, the ministry of urban development will most probably release the rankings by February.
 
