 has made the transition from amateur to professional boxing quite easily. The 2008 Olympic bronze medallist is currently undefeated in his 8-match professional career and has also managed to win a regional title this early in his career. Now, Vijender has his sights set on the role of a mentor and says he will soon start a boxing academy in Gurgaon to nurture the future generation of champions.

  "Boxing has made me who I am today and given me all the fame and success in life. So I want to give back to boxing. I feel the best way in which I can contribute to the future of Indian boxing is by preparing the next generation of champions from the country," says Vijender. The boxer, who spends a lot of time training in the Millennium City, says he wants to start his first academy here and then see how to expand it to other cities. Talking about why he chose Gurgaon over his hometown Bhiwani, Vijender says, "Bhiwani already has good boxing facilities, but a city like Gurgaon needs it. It is an urban centre and close to Delhi, so it can benefit boxers from Haryana and other places too."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Even though his professional career keeps Vijender busy these days, the reigning WBO Asia Pacific Super Middleweight champion says that he will find time to personally monitor the training and progress of young boxers at his academy. He says, "There will be world-class coaches and trainers at the facility, who will ensure that the boxers we pick up have the prospect of winning medals at the Olympics and other international meets. I will try to personally interact with the trainees as much as possible." Although Vijender hasn't worked out the final modalities of the academy yet, it could be open for both boys and girls, now that female boxing is also a medal event at the Olympics.
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  This is not the first time that Vijender has spoken about his dream of opening a boxing school. In 2012, he had proposed a venture of opening boxing academies in four Indian cities – Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, and Kolkata. However, the plan did not work out in the end. In 2014, the Haryana government had approved land for a proposed boxing academy by Vijender in Sonepat district. "I have wanted to start a boxing school for quite some time, but now I feel the time is right." 
 
  Vijender says that he is in talks with the state and district authorities about land for the academy and if all goes according to plan, the academy should be operational by the end of this year. "A boxing academy doesn't need a lot of space, unlike outdoor sports. I am looking to build two rings of international standards, along with practice and sparring facilities, as well as a gym," he says.
 
 
