INDORE: The   (MPPWD-PIU) has finalised a proposal for a   at MY Hospital. However, the unit may not see the light of day as hospital authorities want the unit to be a part of the super-speciality hospital proposed instead of it being a standalone unit.

 Divisional commissioner Sanjay Dubey claimed that he has written to the state government to include the unit as part of the super-specialty hospital. “The unit will not be a standalone building but a part of the proposed super-specialty hospital to make it convenient for patients, doctors and medical staff,” Dubey told TOI.
 
 However, the   does not seem to have any information about the move. “We have not received any official communication. We finalised the contractors on technical grounds on Thursday for a separate cardiac unit,” said PWD executive engineer Anand Rane.
 
 The bids were invited after a nod was received from the state expenditure finance committee.
 
 The state government had in October last year given its approval to develop a Rs 33 crore cardiac unit above the trauma centre at MY Hospital.
 
 The proposal for the unit at the super-speciality hospital was mooted when the PWD was planning a separate cardiac unit. The central government agreed to bear 60 per cent of the expenses for the proposed Rs 200 crore super-specialty hospital to boost government health facilities in the city. The remaining 40 percent part, Rs 80 crore, was to be borne by the state government.
 
 “During our visit to Delhi on January 12, we had received directives to make cardiology, neurology, nephrology and gastroenterology units under one roof. Hence, we included the cardiac unit as part of the super-specialty hospital in a preliminary report,” said Dr Sumit Shukla, in-charge, report making committee.
 
 He added that the preliminary report was prepared to make all the major health facilities available for patients visiting the super-specialty hospital. The state government will make a decision in this regard before sending the final report to the central government for its approval.
 
 
