If you are in Mettupalayam, think thousand times before taking a sip to quench your thirst. According to a report by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board,   water, which is supplied to 1.5 lakh residents of Mettupalayam for potable purpose, is unfit for consumption. The report dated October 19, 2016, states the water is chemically not potable as the turbidity and iron values exceed permissible limits. Also, the water is bacteriologically unsafe due to the presence of faecal coliform, the source of which is human and animal excreta.

 The main sources of Bhavani river water contamination were found to be untreated water discharged to it by industrial units and the 28 canals carrying sewage water from the municipality.
 
 The river was free flowing until 2000. But in 2001, Erode unit of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) set up two barrages in the river, one at Samayapuram and another at Omapalayam to generate electricity. The projects, implemented at a cost of Rs150 crore, were aimed at generating 20MW power. But, they have been able to generate only 8MW power. RTI replies also revealed that the projects had not received several clearances and they weren’t feasible projects.
 
 “Despite several RTI applications, the TNEB has not yet said whether it had obtained no objection certificate from Tamil Nadu pollution control board for the project. Proof for other clearances has been given to us. Also, as per the government, if water drains into the agricultural land, the TNEB will have to pay Rs950 per sqft. The project is not at all feasible,” said the legal adviser of Save Bhavani Trust, advocate R Shanthamurthy.
 
 After the barrages were constructed, trust secretary M Su Mani said, water supply frequency had reduced to four days from alternate days. “Sewage water was seen stagnating in the river after the project launch,” he added.
 
 Pointing out that the state government had last year sanctioned a Rs91.7 crore underground drainage project, former chairman of Mettupalayam Municipality D Satheesh Kumar said after its implementation the water would be treated before letting into the river. Currently, 10 MLD water from Bhavani river is supplied to Mettupalayam while 6-8MLD sewage is discharged into the river. “It is best to open the barrages until the underground drainage project was set up,” he said.
 
 Residents of Mettupalayam said they had been contracting skin diseases for long. “We met nearly 18 young boys near Oonampalayam who had huge patches on their bodies. We took up the issue with the officials but in vain,” said Senthil Kumar, a resident.
 
 Other residents said the water as not fit for consumption at all. “We can’t stand by its odour. Apart from water-borne diseases, water stagnation also causes fevers and other diseases in the area,” said Suresh Kumar, another resident.
 
 Near Samayapuram, the United Bleachers Limited has been accused of discharging untreated water in the river. “Despite many protests and petitions, pollution control board officials have let them go scot free with warnings,” said M Su Mani, also a former employee of UBL.
 
 Other companies that discharge effluents in the river, include ITC paper mill and Saradha Teri towels. “The companies claim that only treated water was let out into the river. But despite TWAD report and photographic evidence, no action has been taken against them,” he added.
 
 
