NEW DELHI: While   on rivals might not be a new phenomenon in politics, the upcoming   in Delhi are keeping private detectives unusually busy what with stakes higher than ever. Politicians are increasingly wary of people appearing to be whipping up support for them but who, in reality, could be passing on secrets to others.

 Any information about a candidate distributing liquor, cash, cloth, or gifts to potential voters can act as a leverage for rivals in the battleground. Indeed, in 2012 civic polls, several politicians are learnt to have extensively used the services of private detectives. As Adarsh Kumar, whose   agency has deployed men in west Delhi to conduct “surveillance” on the behalf of a leading party’s functionary, said: “We are receiving a higher number of inquiry calls every day.” Kumar claimed to have extended his services to various “clients” in the 2012 Delhi civic polls as well as the recent municipal elections in Mumbai. 
 
 On contacting another detective agency in the guise of a politician, this reporter emerged with a rate chart on different packages. The cost of such political snooping could range from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh a week. For a certain fee, the executive promised to keep tabs on activities of the “subject”. “Provide us with the name and photograph of the person you want tailed,” said the executive, adding that they would hand over photographs and videos related to meetings of the subject every night. “We will try to get proof of cash, liquor, cloth or gifts being distributed by him/her,” he said.
 
 Sanjeev Deswal, president of Certified Private Detectives Association, however, said political snooping went far deeper. “Clients often demand sting operations. While some use these to expose their rivals during campaigning, others might use them to make money,” said Deswal, who runs Aider Detective agency. Detectives TOI spoke to said political functionaries were willing to pay hefty amounts for any dirt on their competitors. Sanjeev Kumar, an ex-policeman who runs Delhi Detective Services, said some agencies managed to obtain call detail records for their clients. “Papers of several CDRs were recovered last year when crime branch raided offices of some detective agencies,” said Deswal.
 
 Many Delhi-based agencies claimed they were hired by parties for snooping on rivals in Noida and other parts of UP and Punjab during polls. A politician, who did not want to be named, said many agencies had former CBI, IB and military intelligence officials on their rolls and used their connections to gather crucial information. 
 
 Varun Verma, who runs First Indian Detective Agency, said politicians preferred to keep their identity secret, for obvious reasons. The job was not so difficult, said some detectives. “Not every man in a rally or a public meeting can be identified. It is easy to mingle with the crowd and get information,” said one.
 
