LUCKNOW: With the announcement of state elections expected any time now, Prime Minister   boosted BJP’s UP campaign on Monday by attacking rivals and highlighting the saffron party’s development plank at a mammoth rally here. Modi, pleased with the size of his audience, hit out at BJP’s opponents. 

 “Whereas I am busy battling corruption and black money, other parties have chosen to target me rather than fight the menace,” Modi said, a tack which was reminiscent of the one used by late PM Indira Gandhi during her successful campaign for the 1971 Lok Sabha polls. “Main kahti hoon Garibi Hatao, woh kahte hain Indira hatao (while I am trying to eradicate poverty, they are obsessed with removing me” was Indira’s popular pitch. 
 
 Modi spared none of his rivals. He mocked Congress for struggling to launch Rahul Gandhi’s political career without success, although he did not take names. He, again without identifying anyone, made a scathing allegation that BSP is focused on managing its money in bank accounts. SP, quite predictably, came under attack for the fight in the ruling Yadav clan, who were accused by Modi of promoting their interests at the cost of people’s welfare. 
 
 Police sources said the turnout at the sprawling   ground was over six lakh- something which surpassed the size of other political throngs at the venue and underlined that BJP members had used every muscle for the success of the event. The biggest rally, estimated to be five-lakh strong, hosted at the venue so far had been the one addressed by BSP chief Mayawati in March 2010. Modi’s rally eclipsed the record: an achievement which underlined that organisers had gone for broke to put up the saffron spectacle. 
 
 The PM himself appeared impressed by the mega crowd, acknowledging that it was bigger than the turnouts he attracted during the 2014 Lok Sabha campaign which saw the party sweeping the state. “This is the biggest rally of my career. I am in politics for many years, I have never addressed a bigger rally,” the PM told a crowd that roared back in approval. 
 
 Contrary to speculation that he might announce sops in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Modi instead hit out at the opposition parties for criticising demonetisation. Modi said while these political parties are attacking him, he is fixated on removing corruption, referring to his demonetisation drive launched on November 8 that cancelled Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. The PM said if the BJP takes office in UP after 14 years, it would be return of development in the state.
 
