Indore: Amidst increasing incidents of crime against women, only seven women applied for arm license in 2016. A total of 357 gun licenses were issued during the year. An official data of license occupiers show a major difference. Less than 3 per cent women have obtained gun in comparison to men applicants in last three years. Though 2016 witnessed a rise in number of women getting gun license in comparison to 2015, where only 4 women were granted permission to keep gun, 2013 had recorded 13 women applicants getting the permission. The authority granted arm licenses to 947 men during this period. There is a timeframe of 60 days to complete two separate verifications by the police and sub divisional office (SDO) to decide that gun license should be issued to applicants or not. An official from the district administration said to have around 400 applications are pending verification. He added that out of these, only a few applicants are women. “In some cases, the process gets delayed as we need to ensure that correct report of criminal background verification, authenticity of the reasons are given by the applicants and other formalities related to gun license are carried out,” said a senior official wishing anonymity. In almost all the cases, the applicants have given self-defense as reason to obtain gun license, he added. “If we want women to mark their presence in every field, it’s necessary to make the women fearless. Teaching them techniques of self-defence will give them confidence,” Singh added. Official claim regarding woman safety Indore: The senior officials attributed proper law and order situation and prompt police action on crime against women as the reason for less number of women applicants for gun licences. “The women feel safe as the police and administration is maintaining law and order situation. Steps are being taken to ensure women safety at workplace and to reduce the cases of domestic violence,” a senior administrative officer claimed. However, a data received from Woman and Child Development Department (WCDD) revealed that as many as 490 cases of rape, 34 cases of gang rape, 57 cases of murder and offences against women including loot and abduction were registered in last three years questioning the claims by administration on women safety. “Women have every right to protect themselves from any possibility untoward situation. Possessing a gun gives confidence to women to deal with any circumstances without waiting for anyone to accompany her,” said Anamika Singh, management staff of The Emerald Heights International School. “I had a gun license for shooting purpose. I am going to apply for an individual license in coming days,” she added.