NAGPUR: The   zoo staff has threatened to strike work from April 13 to protest the indifference of   (PDKV) towards providing facilities for visitors and zoo animals.

 The 120-year-old zoo houses 300 animals and birds. For years together, it is grappling with issues like improper cages, meagre staff, poor upkeep of animals, no full-time veterinary doctor and medical facilities.
 
 According to sources, 40 people have been engaged for handling the zoo affairs but barring three employees all are working on temporary basis and not being paid even minimum wages. Recently, a lone full-time vet with the zoo, Abhijeet Motghare, was abruptly shifted to  .
 
 “The facilities for the visitors and animals are not proper. The cages are improper still we risk our lives to feed animals and caretaking. We are paid Rs2,700 per month, whereas as per the minimum wage rate of Rs300 per day, we should get at least Rs8,000 per month,” said temporary workers. 
 
 In a letter to the associate dean of the College of Agriculture, zoo in-charge Dr SS   has intimated that workers would launch strike from April 13, if labourers and wages are not increased.
 
 PDKV registrar   told TOI, “The strike notice is illegal. We will take action against officials if the zoo affairs are neglected. We are making better alternative staff arrangement in due course of time.”
 
 However, PDKV has been promising this for long. Even the   (CZA) has been critical of it for not complying with conditions while renewing recognition. The zoo’s recognition has been extended till December 2017.
 
 The zoo has not set up a full-fledged veterinary unit with all basic diagnostic facilities and related infrastructure. It has also failed to provide screening space between adjacent enclosures by planting vegetation.
 
 The zoo authority has granted PDKV 11 months to comply with various conditions. The PDKV has been criticized for no proper signage for visitors and has been asked to stop visitors from carrying plastic inside.
 
 As the zoo is understaffed, it is not maintaining records of keepers’ diary, vaccination schedule and animal history cards in proper format.
 
 THE DEMANDS
 
 * Workers paid Rs2,700 per month, but as per minimum wage rate of Rs300 per day, Rs8,000 per month need to be paid
 
 * Staff strength should be increased, appoint full-time veterinary doctor
 
 * Improve facilities for the visitors and zoo animals
 
