AGRA: A gangster of Aligarh area, Arman (who goes by his first name), was arrested by police when he accompanied former Samajwadi Party MLA Zamirullah Khan to the office of the senior superintendent of police ( ) on Monday.
 
  According to police officers, Khan, who joined BSP recently, had brought Arman, a resident of Roravar village, to the SSP to put in a ‘sifarish’ (recommendation) for the gangster, claiming that the latter had been framed in criminal cases. When the SSP checked Arman’s background, it was revealed that he had been booked under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. The officer then directed that Arman be immediately arrested and sent to jail.
  
  Talking to TOI, SSP Rajesh Pandey confirmed that Khan had visited his office to recommend Arman’s case and plead his innocence. Pandey said inquiries made by him revealed otherwise and he ordered the gangster’s arrest.
  
  Pandey said Arman had been booked under the cow slaughter act twice and under the Arms Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, too. He said Arman was in jail for the past three months and was released just a few days ago. Police were searching for him after the Gangsters Act was slapped on him.
  
  Khan, however, denied that he had approached SSP for pleading Arman’s case. “I had asked the SSP to make inquiries about him,” he said, accusing the police of bias. Khan said the charge of cow slaughter against Arman was “made up” on the basis of an informer’s report.
  
  The BSP leader alleged that now “innocent” people were being picked up by police and released only after they paid up Rs 25,000. “If they (accused) are not able to pay money, then they are booked under cow slaughter and NDPS Act,” Khan alleged.
  
  Khan also claimed that “Arman was only 16 years old and was sent to jail” by station officer of   three months ago in connection with various cases of cow slaughter and NDPS Act. He was presently out on bail and the police had imposed Gangster Act on him and raided his house on Saturday.
  
  However, according to police records, Arman is 22 years old.
  
  Recently, the   had issued a stern warning that those involved in cow slaughter and illegal transport of milch animals would be booked under the stringent National Security Act and Gangsters Act. A Government Order in this regard was passed during the previous   government in the state but was never strictly implemented.
  
  A person booked under the provisions of Gangsters Act becomes listed in police records. It entitles the police to keep track of those booked under the act and issue summons to them for attendance at the local police station for questioning even if no fresh case is lodged against them. The act permits the police to seek remand of an accused for a maximum of 60 days as compared to a maximum of 14 days under normal circumstances.
