TRICHY: These four children of Trichy could well be its role models of grit and determination. Rescued from   and rehabilitated, they have scored over 400 marks in the Class 10 board examination. With 448/500 marks, Santhosh scored the highest among the 23 students including 11 girls who wrote the examinations this year. 

 The   (NCLP) schools target children withdrawn from hazardous occupations and processes in the age group of 9-14 years with the objective of bringing them into the mainstream. At these special schools, they are provided bridge education, vocational training, nutrition, stipend and health care for a maximum period of three years before being merged into the formal educational system. 
 
 While Santhosh was rescued from a textile unit, Kanagavalli who secured 416 marks and Sowmiya who got 402 were house maids when they were picked up. Born to a weaver family, Santhosh dropped out from school at the age of 10. Bogged down by poverty on one side and weak eyesight on the other, Santhosh was forced to drop out from school.
 
 “I regret my decision as my son has now proved me wrong by his academic performance despite his weak eyesight,” says G Siva, Santhosh’s father. “He could not see the black board and we could not afford a special school. Hence we chose to keep him at home,” said Siva. He was later identified by members of NCLP and put in their school at Kodiyampalayam. Aspiring to become a doctor, Santhosh is thankful to his teachers at Sowdambika matriculation higher secondary school for helping him in his studies. 
 
 Similarly, S Sowmiya from Pallakadu near Manikandam dropped out of school after she was diagnosed with throat cancer at the age of 10. A teacher at child labour special school, P Chandrasekaran, identified her and took her to the school. Her family members were clueless about her treatment when she got timely attention and was taken to Chennai. Her gradual recovery is positively reflecting on her academic performance. “When I first met her four years ago she had lost her confidence to get back to school after developing health complications,” said Chandrasekaran. “But now her own family members are unable to believe that she has scored 402/500,” he said. 
 
 Project director of National Child Labour Project- CHEERS Pearline Selvakumar said that all the 23 students rescued by CHEERS and who wrote Class 10 board exams this year had passed the examination. Among these students, four secured above 80 per cent marks and 10 over 60 per cent. 
 
 
