RANCHI: Mithila’s traditional art form, the famed Madhubani painting, is all set to wow a group of special guests from beyond India’s shores. When the India-Australia cricket team arrives here on March 13 for a Test match, they will be greeted with the frames of Madhubani art created by Suman Dwivedi, a local artist. 

 Dwivedi is a trained artist in the Madhubani genre and has created 22 paintings for the willow wielders. The Test match is scheduled for March 16 at the   (JSCA) International Cricket Stadium, Dhurwa, and the artist feels it’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
 
 All her 22 paintings are on display at the Jharcraft emporium at  , where both teams will be staying till March 20. “I have been supplying   to Jharcraft for the past five years but when officials requested me to make 22 paintings on different themes for the players, I did not want to let go of the opportunity. I started working on the paintings three months back,” said the 50-year-old housewife. 
 
 Although she was hesitant to disclose the price of the paintings, she said with a smile, “They will be sold at affordable rates to the players.”
 
 Her eye-catching paintings depict themes like man and nature, the marriage of Ram and Sita, Lord Krishna with his gopis, deities, natural objects, plants, animals and also the famous Titli art using the Madhubani style to design tea coasters and wall hangings.
 
 Traditionally, fingers and twigs are used to make the paintings. But Dwivedi uses fabric colours and paint brush on paper cloth. “We don’t use natural colours like charcoal soot, turmeric powder and sandalwood powder any more to design the motifs. We use fabric paint, which gives an original look. But we don’t compromise on quality,” she said. 
 
 Virat Kohli and Steve Smith are her two favourite cricketers and she is looking forward to them appreciating her paintings once they arrive. “I want my paintings to travel outside India. Folk art is believed to be dying and so it should be given global recognition with the help of our visitors,” she said.
 
