NEW DELHI: “I came here to study, but life is more important,” declared 23-year-old John, an African studying for a degree in an institution in Greater Noida. He came to India because it is culturally rich and sensitive, but has realised things can become prickly. “People here think Africans are demons — like we are born with 10 fingers or something,” he said with feeling.

 After the recent racist attacks on Africans, John has half a mind to   home to Nigeria even if it means leaving midway through his  . “My family wants me to wait and see how the situation progresses. I have invested a lot of time and money to get here so I don’t want to rush back,” said the young  . “But if thing get out of hand, I will leave — and never come back.”
 
 John’s fellow Nigerian, Oge Nnadi, an MBA-student, can’t wait for his course to   so he can go home “and never return”. “The incidents of racial discrimination taking place in India are being shared across the world through social media,” he pointed out. “India is one of the most racist countries for Africans, and other students must know what they have to go through if they want to study in this country.”
 
 Nnadi has realised that racism in India is based on the colour of the skin. He said he has been taunted with a Hindi term that loosely translates to ‘black monkey’. The Nigerian has also seen that foreigners from South Africa who are white aren’t subjected to this discrimination, though blacks from even the United States aren’t spared. “What is this if not racism?” he remonstrated.
 
 A part of the racist anger against the blacks can be traced to the involvement of some people from African countries in the narcotics trade. These foreign students, justifiably, resent being bracketed with them. “Yes, there are elements of this sort, but how can you generalise it to include all of us?” asked Nnadi, adding, “We pay double what Indians do as fees to study in India.” Janet, a Ugandan student, drew attention to the fact that Indian students too are into drugs. “The people who bring drugs into the country sell them to Indians using their Indian friends as contacts. Yet it is the dark-skinned students who are taken to be drug dealers,” she rued.
 
 Abdulouye Brahim, senior advisor to the Association of   in India, described the colour-based hatred in India as the result of "lack of education” about African countries and their varied cultures. “Students must be taught about the African continent,” he advised. “They think of it as a country and have no ideas about its cultures or communities.” He felt that teaching foreign university students Hindi could help bridge the language gap.
 
 Language, in fact, say many African students, is one of the biggest tools of discrimination. Jane related how she found it difficult to follow the lectures delivered in Hindi. 
 
 “We cannot keep interrupting the lecturer for a translation, and in the end we get a 10-minute summary of a three-hour class,” she said. “This is segregation by means of language.”
 
 But beyond language, Jane also reported that few Indians wanted to share a seat with them in class and teammates on projects were loath to involve the Africans in the work. After having spent six years in India, Jane wants to go home as soon as her papers are sorted out. “I came here with a certain idea of India, but living here has never been easy,” she added.
 
 The racism they encounter in India is an unpleasant surprise for these students. Knowing of its vastness and its cultural and ethnic diversity, they often arrive thinking they will be easily accepted by India’s people. “In Nigeria alone, we have 180 ethnic groups and speak 300 languages,” said John, likening the situation back home with India. “But it is disheartening to see such a country as India consider us on our race only.” And giving a stinging refutal of the country’s philosophy of ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’, or the world is one family, the crestfallen student concluded, “I am a guest here, but people treat me like a parasite.”
 
 (Some names have been changed on request to protect the speaker’s identity)
 
 
