NEW DELHI: After a five-day gap,   are back in action and have in their sights the   play-offs with two games to play. The first of those is against the eliminated  , and Pune will be eager to finish them off to move to 18 points, thus putting them into the play-offs. Should they lose on Friday at the Feroz Shah Kotla, their final fixture with   will become a must-win. 

 Pune's superb resurgence in the second half of the tournament has marked them as potential winners, should their bowling and batting continue to flourish. Be it Ben Stokes' century, Jaydev Unadkat's hat-trick or Rahul Tripathi's stunning 93, the franchise has found lift from key players at critical junctures to move them into the top three of the leaderboard. If they can keep striking hard at opposing teams, the play-offs will become something to behold. 
 
 Daredevils moved to seventh on the points table with a narrow chase of 196 against Gujarat Lions on Wednesday, thus showing their fans what could have been with a bit more consistency. They can drag Pune down with them at their home ground, which is something KXIP would love dearly. 
 
 
 Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi
 
 
 May 12, 2017
 
 
 20:00 IST
 
 
 Showers forecast in the afternoon, with 30% humidity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barring any injuries, no changes foreseen. 
 
 
  1  , 2  , 3 Rishabh Pant (wk), 4 Shreyas Iyer, 5  , 6 Corey Anderson, 7 Carlos Braithwaite, Pat Cummins, 9  , 10 Mohammed Shami, 11   (capt)
 
 
 
 
 With Imran Tahir having left the country to go back to South Africa, it is likely that Adam Zampa returns. 
 
 
  1  , 2 Rahul Tripathi, 3 Steven Smith (capt), 4 Ben Stokes 5 MS Dhoni (wk), 6 Manoj Tiwary, 7 Daniel Christian, 8 Washington Sundar, 9 Shardul Thakur, 10 Jaydev Unadkat, 11 Adam Zampa
 
 
 
 
 - Shreyas Iyer's 96 versus Gujarat was his best score in T20s. 
 
 - Unadkat is the third-highest wicket-taker of the league, needing the fewest gamest (8) to get to 17 wickets. 
 
 
  RPS 2 - DD 1
 
 
 
 
 "We'd want to win both games, finish on a high. As a team, everything needs to come together." - Zaheer Khan
 
 "All of us have contributed. That's how we have won matches. We are trying to keep it simple." - Jaydev Unadkat
 
