(Cleared/ Gopa)

 Two fishermen on board a mechanised fishing boat sustained injuries in the sea off Chinna Erwadi coast in Ramanathapuram in the small hours of Friday when a group of country boat fishermen hurled petrol bombs at them. The attack in the sea was allegedly by those opposing fishing by mechanised boats which used illegal practices resulting in depletion of marine wealth thereby causing loss of livelihood for the country boat fishermen. The injured were taken to Mandapam primary health centre for treatment. 
 
 Devipattinam Marine police have registered a case in connection with the attack and are conducting an investigation. However, country boat fishermen from not only Ramanathapuram but also Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur launched an indefinite strike on Friday against the “illegal fishing” by mechanised boats. They have threatened to intensify the protest if higher officials from fisheries department did not pay heed to their sufferings. 
 
 The attack took place when four fishermen including Mohammed Abubucker, 30 and Nishar, 32, on a mechanised boat belonging to Syed Ibrahim were fishing on an island called ‘Appa Thivu’ off Chinna Erwadi coast. Unidentified men fishing on country boats hurled petrol bombs at the boat. Fishing nets on the boat were also gutted in the incident. 
 
 Country boat fishermen point out that the dispute between them and mechanised boat fishermen has been prevailing for decades. The rift was widening because the officials of the fisheries department turned a blind eye towards the blatant violations by the mechanised fishermen who were using banned fishing nets like gill nets and double nets. 
 
 “They deplete all the sea wealth using the banned fishing nets. The livelihood of the country boat fishermen has been immensely affected due to the illegal practice. When they trawl on the shallow waters, nothing is left for us. We have to return home empty handed,” says G Arul, president of country boat fishermen at Pamban.
 
 He further added that rules prohibited the mechanised boats from fishing three nautical miles off the shore to safeguard the livelihood of country boat fishermen. But they followed no rules. No stringent action was being taken by the fisheries officials for unknown reasons, he said. 
 
 “While there are 50,000 country boat fishermen in Ramanathapuram district, those using the mechanised boat are just around 5,000. Majority is deprived of their livelihood due to the violation by a few,” he said. 
 
 
