GHAZIABAD: Despite serving a life sentence for committing the murder of her own daughter Aarushi Talwar along with husband  ,   has managed to capture attention again by doing something not so usual in  . She has translated the upcoming book of journalist-turned-author   called ' ' from  .

 Talwar has also managed to pen down two poems about late daughter Aarushi Talwar, along with husband, Rajesh Talwar, while living and operating in the jail premises itself which have found place in the book. "Before choosing Nupur Talwar for translation, I was looking for inmates who could be proficient in English and had a firm hold on the language, but she seemed perfect," said Vartika Nanda, author. 
 
 When asked about choosing Nupur Talwar for translating the book, the author also confessed that since Talwar was integral to a sensational double murder case, she was popular with the media. "Plus, she comes from a good background and has her relatives abroad, hence her English was better," she said.
 
 Besides, Nanda added that she wanted the translator to relate to the pain and anguish illustrated in the book and hence wanted a person who had a first-hand experience with the same. "Nupur would sometimes cry and talk about her daughter and their lives together. She spoke about May 15, 2008 and what all they did as a family together, which was also the last time she saw Aarushi," added Nanda.
 
 Talwar managed to complete the translation in almost two months while living in a barrack that she was sharing with more than 50 other women and 13 children. "She was initially hesitant to accept my request, because she felt incapable of doing it, but after some persuasion she agreed," added Nanda.
 
 Talwar received a one-sided photostat of the Hindi manuscript and she used to write on the other side of the sheet in English. 
 
 Talwar gave the first draft of the final manuscript in Hindi in the last week of February, 2016 and she completed the translation by the end of April. According to the author, the convict initially found it really hard to manage the time devoted for the book, along with her other jail activities. "The time available for personal reasons is very limited in jail life, hence, she struggled a lot through her initial days," added author.
 
 As per a Dasna jail official, "She apparently became disciplined while working in the book. She also used to seek her husband's help at times too." The author would clarify particular Hindi words Talwar could not understand the next time she would visit the jail premises, which were usually on Sundays or other holidays. "All the five inmates, whose experiences and lives in jail are recorded in the book, were aware of the book's progression. Nupur was very much a part of the discussions surrounding the book," added Nanda. 
 
 However, an inmate who is related to a terrorist activity, was denied the use of a paper and a pen, according to a source, but Talwar was provided with an endless supply of the same. However, jail officials said that if the inmates ask for paper and a pen for a genuine reason like writing letters or anything concrete, "we give them pen and a paper". "The jail library is open from 7 am till 6 pm and whoever is willing to read can access the library after the jailer's permission," added the official.
 
 According to the author, the Talwar couple do not meet that often in the jail premises despite being married. However, Rajesh Talwar often suggests books to his wife Nupur Talwar to read from the jail library. "Nupur is a voracious reader. She reads compulsively. I have never seen her without a book. She says that she likes reading biographies and books help her deal with her depression," he says.
 
 The Talwars have apparently still not seen 'Talwars', the feature film made in their name. When the author asked them why, they replied, "Why should we see it? What difference will it make in our lives?"
 
 'Tinka Tinka Dasna' is the second book in the 'Tinka Tinka' series reflecting upon the imprisoned lives of five Dasna jail inmates namely Nupur Talwar, Rajesh Talwar, Surinder Kohli, Rajesh Jha and Ravinder Kumar. 
 
 Nupur Talwar has been given her due credit on the cover page of the book in white. "A police official once asked me why I am writing the name of a murder convict on my book cover? But I had no such reservations, because after talking to them I know them like no one else does," said Vartika Nanda.
 
