SHIMLA: For the first time in  ,   performed a prostate surgery at   and Hospital (IGMCH), Shimla. 

 S R Sharma, a 77-year-old prostate patient, from Rajgarh in Sirmaur district suffered from a heart attack around 20 years back and was on follow up in cardiology department of IGMCH. One year back, he had developed retention of urine and was seen in urology department, where he was diagnosed to have enlarged prostate gland, also known as benign enlargement of prostate (BEP). 
 
 He was put on catheter (thin tube inserted in the body for removing fluid) for retention of urine and was advised surgery after few months. Later, attempts to remove the catheter failed as he was not able to pass urine on his own. He was then sent to cardiology department for fitness required for surgery. 
 
 But, his echocardiography (ECG) done by Dr Rajeev Bhardwaj, Professor of cardiology, showed that his heart was weak due to severe left ventricular dysfunction (left chamber of heart loses its ability to relax normally which is risk for heart attacks). Considering a previous heart attack, there was no possibility of surgery. Moreover, he was on drugs for thinning of his blood which would have caused increased bleeding during surgery. 
 
 Dr Bhardwaj decided to treat his prostatic enlargement with catheter-based treatment. Prostate gland is supplied by right and left prostatic arteries, which arise from internal iliac arteries (located in the pelvic region). So, Dr Bhardwaj selectively hooked each internal iliac artery, going thorough opposite femoral artery (located in the thigh). Then, he injected poly venyl alcohol particles, through a microcatheter, in each prostatic artery to block blood supply to both, a procedure known prostatic artery embolization. It decreases the size of prostate over a period of three to four months.
 
 The patient was discharged the next day and his catheter was removed after four months. His ultrasound then showed reduction in the size of prostate.
 
 Dr Bhardwaj said this was first such case done in IGMCH and only a few doctors in the country have done this complicated procedure.
 
 
