NEW DELHI: 
   , whose 
  against Delhi chief minister   threw the   into turmoil on Sunday, said today that he will approach the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) and lodge an FIR tomorrow.

 Laying open a veritable can of worms, Mishra alleged that health minister   helped a relative of AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal settle a Rs 50 crore land deal for a farmhouse in Delhi's   area.
 
 "Satyendar Jain told me in a private conversation that he'd settled a Rs 50 crore land deal for a 7-acre farmhouse in Chhattarpur in favour of Kejriwal's brother-in-law's Bansal family. Being a PWD minister, he also fudged bills up to Rs 10 crore in the department to benefit Kejriwal's relative," he alleged.
 
 Mishra further said that he has sought an appointment with the CBI on Tuesday to register a complaint, and will ensure an FIR is filed in this regard.
 
 The AAP lawmaker stood by his decision not to quit the party and dismissed the charges that he was a BJP agent bent on disrupting the party. 
 
 "If there's any person in AAP who has consistently spoken against the BJP and Modi ji's policies actions, it is I. I will never join the BJP, I don't have any ties to any BJP leader... nor will I ever leave the AAP," Mishra declared.
 
 Mishra, who was sacked as minister on Saturday, reiterated his demand for a lie detector test on his allegations that he was an eyewitness to the Rs 2 crore exchanging hands between Kejriwal and Jain. He said that a lie detector test be conducted on all three.
 
 Earlier in the day, Mishra handed over documents to back his allegations that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had delayed the probe into 
  . 
 
 Mishra said he had shared all the evidence related to the tanker scam with the ACB. 
 
 "I told the officials how chief minister Arvind Kejriwal deliberately delayed the report and how public money was misused. I told them how Kejriwal along with his two men affected the tanker scam probe. The government also tried to shield   time and again. ACB will call me again for a detailed investigation," he told reporters after the meeting.
 
  chief MK Meena said that the bureau would record Mishra's statement and after that the law will take its own course. Meena also said that the sacked minister had yet to file a complaint on the alleged dubious transaction of Rs 2 crore between Kejriwal and Jain.
 
 Mishra's allegations prompted calls from the BJP and Congress for Kejriwal's ouster, but AAP stood solidly behind its leader, insisting there was no merit in the allegation.
 
 Hitting out at the AAP legislator over his allegations of corruption against Kejriwal, AAP leader Sanjay Singh said that a major conspiracy was being hatched against it by the BJP and that Mishra was speaking the saffron party's language.
 
 "A game of exploitation is being played against the AAP. The BJP is hatching a conspiracy against the AAP through Mishra," Singh charged.
 
 
 
 
 
