PUNE: The State Reserve Police Force ( ) has installed barricades to restrict traffic movement on Azadnagar road in Wanowrie since February 28. The move has met with strong opposition from the residents as it is causing severe inconvenience. 

 Around 5,000 residents live in the locality. Besides,  , Jhulelal temple, Kroot memorial school and other business establishments are also located in the area.
 
 The Wanowrie Residents Forum has appealed to the   (PMC), SRPF and traffic police to remove the barricades and widen the road to reduce traffic congestion.
 
 SRPF commandant Sarang Awad (Group II) claimed the road, constructed by PMC on 3,600sqft land, belongs to them and the barricades do not cause an inconvenience to the residents. 
 
 In a letter sent to the municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar and others on March 1, the resident forum’s secretary Maithili Manakawad has said, “The barricades, installed at the road entrance and at the end of Kroot memorial school’s boundary wall, was creating traffic congestion and affecting around 5,000 residents, students, visitors and devotees.”
 
 Further, Manakawad added, “We understand that the road belongs to the SRPF but the PMC needs to take urgent steps to acquire the land as blocking access to the main road leading to Azadnagar will jeopardise the entire commute.” Moreover, she pointed out that the road from Ruby Hall Clinic to Naren Hills is untarred and uneven and so can’t be considered a safe alternative.
 
 Meanwhile, Awad told TOI on Friday, “We have installed two barricades to ensure safety of the people. I have made correspondence with the PMC to get the land sanctioned from the state government for public utility purpose. The PMC has constructed an alternative road from Sun Grace school to Azadnagar for the convenience of the residents.”
 
 According to PMC corporator Prashant Jagtap, the PMC is considering the issue of granting suitable compensation to the SRPF after examining documents pertaining to the ownership of the land on which the civic body had constructed road several years ago. “PMC will send an official reply to the SRPF and the problem is expected to be resolved by next week,” Jagtap said.
 
 
