LUCKNOW: There is no letup in   on the   campus. On Monday, two groups of students clashed at Tagore library reading room, turning violent after a verbal spat. Before the proctor team reached the library, the students managed to escape from gate number 5. This was the eighth such incident on the campus in the past one month.

 University administration failed to take any action against the offenders and only four have been served   so far, out of which only two have elicited reply by students, saying they were no involved. Just two days before a mass communication student sustained a head injury after an alleged assault by a group of hostellers at university’s gate number 1 in which university failed to identify the hostellers.
 
 Earlier too, proctor board failed to identify and nab students involved in incidents of violence. During LU athletics meet, a group of LU hostellers allegedly set a makeshift tent afire on LU playground as they were angry over mismanagement during the meet. In another incident, a group of 50 students from the Acharya Narendra Dev hostel pelted stones at the house of the provost complaining shortage of food in the hostel. In both incidents, the university failed to identify students and take action against them. Every year, university passes budget for installing CCTV camera on campus but with no such devices to check rowdy elements, there was no footage was available to probe in all incidents. 
 
 Following an old dispute, two students groups entered into a fight at LU gate number 2 and besides the students a show cause notice was also issued to a resident of Habibullah hostel for fighting with a mess in charge. Two notices went to BCom students for allowing outsiders to reside in hostel but no further action was taken in any of the cases.
 
 An incident of arson was reported on the campus when a motorcycle of a student residing in Habibullah hostel and the car belonging to a professor was set afire but in both cases no action was taken.
 
 “University cannot take action against a student unless there is evidence. Action has been taken in the incident that took two days back and students were identified as those not of the university, so while no action could be taken, their entry has been barred from the campus,” said LU spokesperson N K Pandey. He added that administration will be checking identity cards and conduct drives in hostels and on the campus to counsel students.
 
 
