HYDERABAD: It appears to be all talk and no action. Soon after the Miyapur land scam surfaced in May this year, the Telangana government had vowed to tackle the corruption in the various departments on a war footing and announced that the changes for the better will be there for all to see in the coming months. However, four months down the line, the reality on the ground is that nothing has changed. Rather, according to sources, corruption in the registration and stamps department has only taken an alarming proportion.The reforms that were promised included putting an end to corruption that has been rampant in the name of audit expenses, and breaking the nexus between the sub-registrars and document writers. “The situation right now is that corruption in the name of audit expenses is flourishing and the nexus between sub-registrars and document writers has only got strengthened,“ said sources in the department.

 After the Miyapur land and other scams broke out, the state government gave an appearance of taking action. All the district registrars were asked to inspect their offices and randomly verify the records. Similarly, staff of the auditor general office were told to audit each and every document registered in the offices. The sources claimed that this exercise itself gave rise to further corruption with sub-registrars collecting amounts through document writers in the name of `audit-expenses' from those people who come for registrations. The amounts ranged from Rs 2,000 to Rs 10,000 depending upon the value of the land. “A broker collected Rs 2,000 for partition deed on behalf of the sub-registrar office in the name of audit-expenses (on their part, sub-registrar office staff claim they have to pay bribes to the audit staff) from me. I paid the amount fearing troubles from the staff and delay in the work," V Savitha, property owner and resident of   Colony, Saroornagar told TOI.
 
 Since many document writers have a role in irregularities in the sub-registrar offices, the state proposed to rein them in by re-introducing the licensing system. But the licensing system has not been introduced and document writers continue to act as brokers. “It is an open secret that many document writers act as brokers. If the licensing system is introduced and certain restrictions are imposed on them, corruption in the sub-registrar offices can be checked to a large extent,“ said S Chandrasekhar, member of India against Corruption Volunteers Association,  .
 
 According to him, even after the Miyapur episode, land listed in the prohibitory register continue to be transferred to private persons in areas like Kanaziguda village in Alwal mandal. Even some allege mutation fee being paid at the time of registration (to change na me of the property owner in   records) is being misused by some of the staffers, he said. “I had to pay mutation fee at the GHMC office again after I came to know that the mutation fee I paid was not transferred to the GHMC by the Marredpally sub-registrar's office," said B  , a resident of Namalgundu.
 
 There are many who insist that reforms have been initiated in the registration and stamps department. Telangana United Registration and Stamp Employees' Association president Gangapuram Sthita Pragna said the department has introduced reforms in the form of public data entry system where people can download documents without document writers and that if there are any corrections, they can be made at the office later at the time of registration. The state is updating land records village wise. He said apart from the AG's office audit, annual inspections are being carried out by district registrars.
 
 
