KOCHI: Giving a breather to the business fraternity in  , the state government has issued a draft notification declaring the area as a mixed use zone.

 Once the area is declared as a mixed use zone, around 700  , which would otherwise have to down their shutters, can continue business operations from   area.
 
 With the issuance of the draft notification, the   will have to organize a public hearing seeking different views on it. The local body should give advertisements in the newspapers and within 30 days, it will have to send a report to the state government on the basis of the hearing. If there are any major and valid suggestions, the government will incorporate them in the draft. Otherwise, the government will issue the final notification. “There are around 700 business establishments in the area. Had the government retained the area as residential zone, the business fraternity , along with 7,000-8,000 employees would have been forced to go to streets,“ a businessman in the area said.
 
 A few months ago, the town planning department had conducted a resurvey for exploring the possibilities of converting Panampilly Nagar into residen tial-cum-commercial zone. It also conducted an opinion poll among the residents on whether the area should be changed into a residential-cum-commercial zone or retain its residential zone status. Later, the town planning department sent the draft report to the government.
 
 As per the new Town and Country Planning Act introduced in 2016, the status of each area should be revised at least once in 10 years, but the status of Panampilly Nagar, which was declared as a residential area in 1969, had not been revised since then. The government revised the status of the zone using the provisions in the 2016 Act.
 
 Earlier, the high court had given time for the business establishments in the area to operate till March, 2017. Later, the court allowed the merchants to continue in the area until the state government makes a decision on their plea for re-notifying the status of the zone.
 
