As Noida goes to the polls today – along with 69 other assembly constituencies in West UP – one polling station in Greater Noida’s   is out to shed the 'boring and dull' image of polling booths. Three polling booths have been set up at   for voters in the nearby areas. The university was chosen by election commission officials to be the site of a model polling booth for the assembly elections. Since most of the registered voters at the station are college students, the university officials have set up a selfie station near the booth, to lure students by promising a social media-friendly election.

  Sharda University is the only polling station inside Knowledge Park, which is home to over 4,000 registered voters. As per election commission officials, a majority of these voters are students studying in the colleges here, apart from staff members in the institutions as well as residents from nearby areas like Tugalpur. Ajit Kumar, joint registrar at the university, tells us, "This is the first time there is a polling booth inside the university campus. Three halls in Block 4 of the university have been converted into three booths. To make voting attractive to students, we have set up a selfie station outside the booths, where students can come and proudly click selfies with the message of 'I voted!' in the background. It’s the age of social media and youngsters want to share everything, so we wanted to give them a chance to do that."
 
  
  
  The varsity officials have also installed ramps outside the booths to make them differently abled- friendly and provided a golf cart and ambulance for the voters. "Following the suggestion of EC officials and district administration, we have incorporated a number of facilities to make voting easy for all voters who come here. Apart from ramps for the differently abled, we will have 15 doctors from our hospital on call throughout the day for medical emergencies, and we will also open a crèche in the campus for women coming with young children," says Kumar.
 
 
