BENGALURU: The BBMP on Tuesday said 13 old markets, including those in Murphy Town, Austin Town, Akkipet and Balepet, will be demolished to make way for multi-level parking lots. A dedicated sum will be kept aside for the purpose in the upcoming civic budget.

 MK Gunashekar, chairman, standing committee for taxation and finance, BBMP, inspected Mutton Market in KR Market, Cubbonpet Market and   before making the announcement.
 
 “These markets are in a dilapidated condition and haven’t generated much revenue in the past two decades, as very few shops are occupied. Some shops have been locked for years. In one such market, a family has converted the shop into its home. Many shopowners have not paid rent to the civic agency,” he said.
 
 Gunashekar said vehicular traffic in these areas has increased manifold. Hence, the Palike’s decision to demolish them. “We get a monthly rent of Rs 99,812 from 182 shops in Mutton Market, Rs 19,720 from 59 shops in Cubbonpet and Rs 6,256 from Ballapur. Some shopowners are cheated by officials, who often don’t provide payment receipts to them,” he explained.
 
 The decision hasn’t gone down well with experts. Condemning the move, architect and heritage expert   said some of the markets in the list boast of a rich heritage, and need to be renovated instead of being razed.
 
 “Every urban study proves not all urban problems can be solved. There will always be shortcomings and we need to live with them by making adjustments. By building flyovers and parking lots, you can’t turn Bengaluru into (a) heaven. The holding capacity of these areas can’t be ignored. City planners should keep these basics in mind,” he said.
 
 Urban expert Naveen KS said the BBMP has in the past identified   for redevelopment. “Now, the civic agency is planning to demolish it. Some of these areas have narrow lanes and I don’t know how people access them if parking lots are built,” he said.
 
 On earlier occasions too, BBMP had come up with plans to demolish heritage markets like Johnson Market, but the proposals were dropped in the face of protests by civic activists and heritage experts.
 
 Gunashekar said the identified markets are irreparable and converting them into parking lots is a viable solution.
 
 END OF THE ROAD
 
 The following markets have been identified for demolition:
 
 Austin Town Market, Moore Road Market, Murphy Town Market, Darjipet Market, Ballapur Market on Avenue Road, Srirampura Market, Akkipet Market, Magadi Road Market, Balepet Chowk Market, SKR Mutton Market, Cubbonpet Market, Sirsi Circle Market and Chikkamavalli Market.
 
