SHIMLA: Holding of religious meets in government educational institutions will not be allowed in the state, Himachal Pradesh chief minister   said while interacting with media here on Tuesday. His remarks were in reference to the tension that erupted in his hometown of   after members of some outfits protested against an alleged Christian congregation in a school.

 Virbhadra said teachers who give permission for religious congregations in government schools could be sacked. He said functions like Republic Day and Independence Day could only be held in government schools. He added that the Rampur incident was blown out of proportion, as Himachal Pradesh was the first state in the country which passed a law against conversion, which would be imposed strictly.
 
 In Solan district, residents of over a dozen panchayats are up in arms against ‘baba’   for attacking a local woman at his temple near Sadhupul. He, too, was attacked by the villagers in retaliation. As the state government has transferred the entire staff of the local police station and some villagers have been arrested, the locals are now alleging that Amardev has the patronage of the government.   denied the allegations, saying some people were inciting the villagers.
 
 When asked about the return of rebel leaders and organizational elections of the party, he said those who wanted to come back were welcome. He said organizational elections would be conducted by the party high command, and having the desire to become a party president, and getting elected for the same are two different things. While addressing a public gathering at Arki in Solan district, he said recently, a meeting of BJP workers from almost 17 constituencies was held in Arki, but the gathering on Tuesday was far more, signalling the strength of people and their faith in the   leadership.
 
 He said though people of Arki had elected the BJP MLA from the area for the past 10 years or so, yet he has never discriminated in the field of development. “If it had been the chief minister of BJP, he would have never allotted a penny for the area having an opposition MLA,” he said. He hoped Congressmen of Arki will remain united to make the Congress candidate win the assembly elections. He said organization elections in Congress should also be free and fair, and everyone should fill membership forms, which would be available online too.
 
 Virbhadra said he would certainly write a book on how elections to organizations were held earlier. “Sitting in the PCC office and manoeuvring things doesn’t win an election. It is at the grassroot level, and people working at the village level who solidify organizations,” he said.
 
