PATNA: The alleged ‘soil purchase’ scam at   involving names of environment and forest minister   and other RJD leaders has sparked a fresh verbal duel between the   government and the opposition parties in Bihar. Senior BJP functionary   had made the allegations in this regard on Tuesday. 

 RJD’s Sursand (Sitamarhi) MLA Syed Abu Dojana, whose firm Meridian Construction (India) Ltd is said to be developing a mall near Saguna Mor from where the soil had been reportedly supplied to Patna zoo without floating any tenders, said on Wednesday he was not even aware about any MS Enterprises, the firm which allegedly supplied soil from the mall site to the zoo.
 
 “I have no idea about this MS Enterprises. We used the soil excavated from the mall site for earth-filling works at another project site of our company. We, in fact, buy soil for earth-filling works in our project,” Dojana said and added that he would file a defamation lawsuit against Sushil Modi (SuMo). Tej Pratap has also threatened to file a defamation lawsuit against the BJP leader.
 
 SuMo, who said on Wednesday he stood by his allegations, claimed that the soil excavated from the mall site for construction of its two basement floors was purchased by Patna zoo for Rs90 lakh without floating tenders. He also said the two acres of land on which the mall is coming up is owned by Delight Marketing Company Pvt Ltd and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his brother and minister Tej are on its board of directors.
 
 The former deputy CM on Wednesday demanded test of the soil used in Patna zoo for developing tracks and that at the mall site. “I stand by my allegations and assert that the soil being used in Patna zoo and that at the mall site are the same. Besides, the zoo administration only asked for quotation for this work as a formality and selected MS Enterprises, though they should have floated tenders for that. We demand an all-party probe into the matter,” he said. 
 
 Patna zoo director Nand Kishore said MS Enterprises was empanelled for soil supply works in December last year and only Rs19 lakh was paid for supplying soil to the zoo. 
 
 While BJP is demanding a probe, RJD chief Lalu Prasad said his family was ready for any kind of inquiry. Lalu said even the cow dung is sent from the official residence of his wife Rabri Devi at 10, Circular Road to Patna zoo for free.
 
 Leader of opposition in the legislative assembly Prem Kumar said CM Nitish Kumar should order a fair probe. “They (Lalu family) have a history of scams. It is definitely a matter of investigation whether the soil was actually needed at the zoo and whether due process was followed in its supply as public money is involved in the purchase,” Prem said.
 
 When contacted, finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui said he was not aware of the details in the matter.
 
