HYDERABAD: NRI IT professional  , whose techie wife,  , and six-year-old son,  , were found murdered in their flat in New Jersey, the US, has been questioned twice as a suspect by the local police. 

 Sasikala's family in Vijayawada has alleged Rao's involvement in the murder, and claimed he had affair with a colleague. Maple Shade police also questioned her and three other colleagues. Rao, who 'found the bodies' in their Maple Shade township flat on Thursday evening, has told the police he would like to go to India for the funeral of his wife and son. "Since it is a double homicide, it may take at least two or three days for the bodies to be handed over to be taken to India," said Mohan Nannapaneni, who heads the emergency assistance of Telugu Association of North America (TANA).
 
 Sources said Maple Shade police are, however, denying him access to the scene of crime - that is his house. The police have locked the apartment. And Rao's passport is in the house. Sources said that if Rao gets his passport and is allowed to leave the US, he might seek police protection in India. 
 
 Rao had told police that he discovered the double murder when he returned home from an after-office hours party. This was confirmed from his office. Three colleagues had dropped him at his house at   Apartments. When Rao was asked if the door was open or he used his key, Rao reportedly said he did not remember as he was talking on his mobile then. Rao said that as Anish did not respond when he called out to him, he went into the bedroom, where he found him lying dead on the cot. Sasikala's body was on the floor.
 
 Police have confiscated his mobile phone to look for any evidence that could link him to the murders. Rao, it is learnt, might be able to get another temporary mobile connection.
 
 Nannapaneni said Rao was disturbed over the reports linking him to the murders. "Rao told me he wants to go to India for the funeral. He has claimed innocence. It is for the police to investigate and come to a conclusion," Nannapaneni said. 
 
