JAIPUR: Farmers in the eastern Rajasthan got a shock on Thursday when mild to moderate showers accompanied with   were witnessed in the state. Since the farmers in the state are now eyeing wheat and mustard harvest, the sudden   and hailstorm was something unexpected. 

  were also witnessed in Jaipur that made the traffic chaotic.However, the rainfall helped mercury to take a dip.
 
 Attributing the rainfall and hailstorm to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that mild to moderate showers will continue in the state. “This has been a pattern in past two years.Hopefully , from Monday onwards, the clouds will vanish from the state,“ said an officer with the Jaipur Met office.
 
 Jaipurities woke up to the warmest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius, almost six degrees above the normal notch was recorded. It was followed by sultry and cloudy afternoon as a maximum temperature of 29.8 degrees Celsius accompanied with a humidity of 74% was recorded. Post afternoon, mild to moderate showers were witnessed at almost every part of the city . Waterlogging at the city's busiest roads including Tonk Road, JLN Marg and Kalwar Road affected the traffic which was chaotic after the sudden showers. There were reports that some parts in the outskirts of Jaipur also witnessed hailstorm. A rainfall of 4.1 mm was recorded in the Pink City .
 
 Farmers in Ajmer, Jhunjhunu, Alwar and Sikar were a worried lot as hailstorm and rainfall was witnessed in the evening. “If this continues it is again going to spoil the wheat and mustard crop. The grain in wheat crop gets spoiled with the moisture and water during this season,“ said Kanaram Chaudhary , a far mer from Dhodsar village of Sikar.
 
 Meanwhile, Sriganganagar remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 8.6 degrees Celsius was recorded. It was followed by Pilani where a minimum temperature of 13.9 degrees Celsius was recorded, Udaipur 14, Churu 15.4, Jaisalmer 15.5, Bikaner 18.4, Ajmer 18.8, Barmer 18.9 and a minimum temperature of 20.2 degrees Celsius was recorded in Jodhpur.
 
 In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said that mild showers will occur at many places in eastern Rajasthan while weather in other parts of the state would mainly be dry .
 
