HYDERABAD: Given the mammoth task involved in the construction of the Arts College building during 1934-39, the Nizam government had laid a special railway line to   campus to transport huge granite boulders and other construction material. It took about five years for the imposing structure to be ready. Perhaps, the Arts College building is the only structure on a university campus in India for which a new railway line was ever laid. 

 According to Prof H Venkateshwarlu of Osmania University, the railway line had extended up to the department of chemistry. "One can see the remnants of the railway tracks behind the building that houses the chemistry department. The structure is magnificent and speaks of the years of voluminous work and planning that went into its design and construction," he says.
 
 Prof Venkateshwarlu, who is overseeing the Osmania University centenary celebrations, told TOI that the university library is a treasure house of information. "It has a collection of rare photographs, memorabilia, books, theses copies, and royal orders," he adds. 
 
 Referring to the construction of the Arts College, city historian and research scholar Dr   says the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had utilised the two railway lines passing in the vicinity of the university. "Granite boulders mostly from Nalgonda district were brought through railway wagons. The Secunderabad-Vijayawada railway line came handy as it passes at a distance less than two kms from the campus. A loop line was laid between Tarnaka and the university. Another railway line - Secunderabad-Kacheguda - was also utilised for transport of material," Dr Safiullah said.
 
 Once the main university building was completed, the tracks from Tarnaka to chemistry department building were left unutilised. The growth of population and subsequent commercial activity in the Tarnaka, Lalapet and Habsiguda, took a heavy toll on the abandoned railway line. The granite hills in Nalgonda district provided the stones for the edifice, while the Shahabad stones from Gulbarga quarries paved the floor.
 
 The university shifting from Basheerbagh to its present campus in   in December 1939 stirred up commercial and residential activity in the vicinity. It also helped in the development of twin cities - Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Retail business went up and the area emerged as a major residential zone. The university gave a boost not only to educational standards of Hyderabad, but also to commercial and residential activity, recall old timers.
 
