KOLKATA: Last year, nine persons, including a 9-year-old boy from  , died of   at  . Though no official case of dengue is yet to be reported from the area to the corporation, residents are already in fear as mosquitoes have again started to surface in various places. A   has started to come in from Rajarhat area.

 Keeping in mind last year's experience, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is taking up a number of measures to prevent any outbreak of mosquito borne diseases in the areas. Last year, blocks such as BJ, GD, AD, AE, BL, IA Block, parts of Karunamoyee and some parts of Sukantanagar and Mahisbathan were worst-hit by dengue. The civic authorities are giving special attention to Rajarhat areas as there are open drains in several places a -a potential breeding ground of mosquitoes. Afew days ago, the civic authorities found mosquito larvae in stagnant water on the roof of a Salt Lake school. The school authorities cleaned up the spot immediately and have taken preventive measures.
 
 Corporation MMiC (health) Pranay Roy said: “We are appointing more workers to each ward. The process started on July 1. Inspections are going on in different places to check if water is accumulating in any place. The areas of concern are the housing estates where we are asking residents to keep the premises clean of stagnant of water where mosquito larvae could breed.“ Civic workers are also spraying larvicide in the manholes across Salt Lake.
 
 Residents of Salt Lake, however, wondered whether the civic body actions are enough.“The civic authorities are spraying larvicide. But the roads in many places are not getting cleaned up properly ,“ said Anamika Paira, a homeopath and resident of CE Block.
 
 “Road repairwork is on before the U-17 FIFA World Cup at Salt Lake stadium and the civic authorities should ensure the waste does not mix with stagnant water,“ said Bidhannagar Welfare Association secretary Kumar Shankar Sadhu.
 
 
 
 The zones bordering KMC areas again seem to be at the forefront of the dengue battle. Government agencies must draw lessons from what happened in these areas last year and work accordingly.
 
