DEHRADUN : There are no veterinarians in most   in Uttarakhand. Barring two reserves -- Corbett and Rajaji -- no other forest reserve in Uttarakhand has any veterinarian. In case of injury or sickness to any animal or rescue operations in human wildlife conflicts, the veterinarians from these two reserves or experts from   (WII) are rushed which takes lot of time and at times help gets so delayed that it is of no use.

 Forest minister, Harak Singh Rawat said, "There is severe shortage of wildlife veterinarians in the state forest department. We have just two, one in Corbett Tiger Reserve and another in Rajaji Tiger Reserve. So our top priority would be deployment of 10 veterinarians in various forest divisions."
 
 According to Aditi Sharma, veterinarian with Rajaji Tiger Reserve, "Humans and wildlife are coming in close contact with each other as villages are situated in buffer zones or outside the boundary of the forest areas and, animals too stray in the human habitation, so this increases the chances of transmission of diseases, which would pose another challenge for veterinarians in the coming times."
 
 Uttarakhand witnessed fatal fever of Scrub Typhus in Garhwal which claimed nine lives in the region in last few years. However no such cases in recent times have been reported.
 
 "There is one veterinarian for Nainital zoo and, another on deputation in   at Haridwar Forest Division. Now with Dehradun zoo, Haldwani Zoo and rescue centers opening across the state and more sterilization of monkeys being in the pipeline, we would need veterinarians for each of these institutions and tasks," said Sharma.
 
 WII is providing basic training to serving officials of   which include basic information about tranquilising, rescue and treatment of animals as well in this course of three months. Long ago, wildlife department of the state also facilitated training to vet of Animal Husbandry department of the state at WII. 
 
 Parag Nigam, WII scientist said, "Veterinarians of Animal Husbandary department who are trained for livestock do not show enthusiasm when WII provide training to them. The Veterinarian Council of India should extend course related to wild animals instead of a short theoretical course of 6 months in their own curriculum." He suggested that once trained then veterinarians should be adequately equipped with gadgets, given good allowance and deputed in a place of demand.
 
 He said, Smithsonian university and WII would start training course for veterinarians from protected forests and Indian zoos in the months of June.
 
