
Based on my personal experiences, I firmly believe it is necessary to take out time for things other than work. I actively take out time to pursue my passions and be with my family. This allows me to excel in my work and home.
 
 
 
 I go for some form of exercise every morning; be it a gym workout, swimming or equestrian sport. 
 
 
 
 Being able to help others gives me a great sense of satisfaction and happiness. It can be charities or helping out friends and family. I also feel the same way when I am learning something new or travelling to new cities, picking up a new skill or discussing an innovative idea with my team. 
 
 
 
 Risk-taking and micro-planning aren’t mutually exclusive. They can go very well together as traits in an individual. I am more of a micro-planner but risk-taking is also an inherent part of life. I think I will be always looking to increase my appetite for risk. 
 
 
 
 I try to meditate daily, though it doesn’t always happen. I find it useful in keeping myself centred. I also enjoy taking time to travel to centres of spirituality. Being physically present in such places always rekindles some kind of desire to progress spiritually in life. 
 
 
 
 Handling failure is something that I will always be working on. I feel that the outcome is a result of the effort put in. Any kind of success or failure only reflects the amount of work gone into the project. I also think that successes and failures inevitably have to be faced in life, but it’s very important to remain grounded and learn from your mistakes. I try to derive the major learnings from any kind of success or failure.
 
 
 
 This is tricky. During a crisis, it is most important to be level-headed and understand the core problem. The solution will present itself eventually. I try to get good counsel from my advisers or well-wishers too. A few times, I’ve found very inspiring solutions from the most unlikely of sources. 
 
 Save Tonight by Eagle Eye Cherry
 
  Maverick by Ricardo Semler
 
 Shawshank Redemption
 
 (Pragun Jindal Khaitan, Managing Director, Jindal Aluminium Limited)
 
