CHENNAI: Veda Nilayam's gates seldom open in the dead of the night. When VK Sasikala emerged from behind it a little after 1 am on Wednesday, she was composed, even smiling. It was the calm before the storm. 

 Put into a spot of bother by caretaker chief minister O Panneerselvam late on Tuesday, Sasikala trudged forward, stopped and turned towards the   cadre gathered outside former chief minister  's residence. And in a style reminiscent of Jayalalithaa, flashed the two-finger sign. Even after her appointment as the party general secretary on December 31, Sasikala had steered clear of addressing media.
 
 On the day she assumed charge of the party, she read out a speech and slipped away in Jayalalithaa's car. But Sasikala's appearance on Wednesday morning signified a shift in her attitude - that she was ready for the rough and tumble; that the fight had reached her gates and it was time to join in.
 
 It is unlikely that Sasikala is oblivious to the public mood that, if social media is an indication, is overwhelmingly against her. But she knew the MLAs were her strong cards for the moment - and she played them well. "All our MLAs are one family. I have no problems," was her first reaction the media.
 
 Then a reporter asked if she would expel   from the party. "Of course, I will," came the reply, looking the reporter in the eye. Sasikala's responses, though unrehearsed, had clarity. What OPS had done was betrayal, she said. And she was in no mood to let him take away her party.
 
 At the MLAs meet on Wednesday, she said she had "keenly observed" what had happened between Panneerselvam and M K Stalin at the state assembly. It may have been a lame excuse for many when she said she had noticed OPS exchanging smiles with Stalin, but she made it clear that in her hour of crisis, she would not lose sight of her enemy number one.
 
 After a day of fast-paced political manoeuvring, Sasikala had left such impression in many of her followers that they had started addressing her ' ' instead of ' ,' her earlier moniker that sought to cement her position as the inheritor of Jayalalithaa's legacy.
 
