MADURAI: In the absence of   for handling cardiac/ thoracic surgeries, creating of infrastructure or purchasing of modern equipment will only be a wasteful expenditure, state health secretary   told in his counter submitted to the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Thursday. 

  from Madurai filed a PIL seeking direction to the government to provide cath lab and heart lung machines to all the government medical college and district headquarters hospitals in the state. It came up for hearing before the division bench headed by justice  .
 
 The secretary said in his counter that the policy of the government is to establish a medical college in each district, to achieve which the state is taking all steps. The state has to provide health to all as a standard medical service duly considering the resources available. The state is taking all necessary steps to train experts in all specialities including speciality of cardio thoracic surgery, he said. 
 
 “Every year, the medical college hospitals in the state which has 22 such colleges produce 1,377 postgraduates with full training on the life-saving surgeries. This exercise is very carefully co-ordinated by the state to meet the current and upcoming needs. The state is taking all the possible steps in the production of the quality professionals as per the needs of the society. In the absence of faculty or experts for handling cardiac surgery/ thoracic surgery creating of infrastructure or purchasing of the modern equipment will only be a wasteful expenditure. 
 
 The health department is interested in the task of health to all by using the entrusted money in a justifiable projects/ manner. To do anything in a mechanical manner may only disrupt such balancing in the system. The petitioner’s prayer is not justifiable,” the secretary said. 
 
 The starting of cardio thoracic surgery department in the government medical college hospitals is the policy decision of the government according to the actual need of the patients. A sum of Rs 42.20 crore has been released for the procurement and supply of cath lab to the government medical institutions situated in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Trichy, Vellore and Chengalpattu, he said. 
 
 As there are no necessary facilities for starting of cardio thoracic surgery department which is a rare super speciality department in the district headquarters (DHQ) hospitals and as they provide only secondary care treatment, the establishment of elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) care has been proposed, the secretary said.
 
