NEW DELHI: The   dealt a huge blow to RJD chief   on Monday by reviving the quashed trial in the Deoghar treasury withdrawal case against him and ruling that he will have to face separate trials in the 30-year-old   cases.

 In what could provide political ammunition to the opponents of Prasad, who was convicted in one of the fodder scam cases and has, as a consequence, been debarred from contesting polls, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy said his conviction and five-year sentence for conspiracy in the Rs 37.7 crore fraudulent withdrawal from the Chaibasa treasury would not fetter the   from prosecuting him separately in other fodder scam cases.
 
 Every withdrawal constituted a distinct offence requiring separate trial, the apex court bench said.
 
 The setback coincides with a stream of information about hitherto undeclared assets of the Prasad clan, and can only weaken his hand in his dealings with friend-turned-rival-turned-ally,   chief minister  .
 
 The SC was remarkably harsh on Jharkhand high court’s Justice R RPrasad, who on November 14, 2014 had quashed the conspiracy charge against Prasad, ex-CM Jagannath Mishra and ex-bureaucrat Sajal Chakraborty. The SC ruling means Mishra and Chakraborty, too, will face multiple trials in fodder scam cases.
 
 Rectifying the HC’s “mistake”, the bench asked the trial court to complete trial against Prasad in nine months. Prasad’s main argument was that the fodder scam was part of one conspiracy and as he had already been convicted for conspiracy in the Chaibasa case, he could not be punished again for conspiracy in the Deoghar case as doing so would be violative of his fundamental right under Article 20 (2) of the Constitution, which bars punishing a person twice for the same offence.
 
 Rejecting this, the bench held that fraudulent withdrawals from different treasuries as part of the mega fodder scam marked distinct offences requiring separate trials. Accepting solicitor general Ranjit Kumar’s arguments, the bench said, “Though there was one general charge of conspiracy, which was allied in nature, the charge was qualified with the substantive charge of defalcation of a particular sum from a particular treasury in a particular time period.
 
 “The charge has to be taken in substance for the purpose of defalcation from a particular treasury in a particular financial year exceeding the allocation made for the purpose of animal husbandry on the basis of fake vouchers, fake supply orders etc. The sanctions made in the budget were separate for each and every year.
 
 “Each defalcation would constitute an independent offence. Thus, by no stretch it can be held to be in violation of Article 20 (2) of the Constitution or Section 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
 
 Separate trials in such cases are the very intendment of law. There is no room to raise such a grievance. Though evidence of general conspiracy has been adduced in cases which have been concluded, it may be common to all the cases but at the same time offences are different at different places, by different accused persons.”
 
 
