NEW DELHI: With a split looming over 
  , there are concerns in   about the efficacy of an alliance with the 
  faction, with which it is likely to tie up for the Uttar Pradesh elections.

 Congress strategists are worried about the fate of Samajwadi Party’s election symbol. They would prefer that Akhilesh gets the ‘cycle’, which the voters easily identify with.
 
 An alliance between Akhilesh Yadav and Congress is on the cards but all eyes are on Monday, when the   is likely to hear and decide the rival petitions staking claim to the ‘cycle’.
 
  
  is pressing for the symbol with which he founded SP, as is his son Akhilesh, who has raised a banner of revolt. The Yadav scion has secured an overwhelming support in SP’s legislature groups as well as the organization’s executive bodies — the principal criteria for allotment of an election symbol in case of a dispute in a political party.
 
 For Congress, it is of critical importance. Senior members argue that if the Akhilesh faction has to contest elections on a new symbol, it would be difficult to spread the message of its new identity to every nook and corner of the vast state. That the elections have been announced makes it serious. “If it had happened two months ago, there would have been time to sensitise voters about the symbol,” a senior member said.
 
 Congress would prefer the SP symbol to be “frozen” over the ‘cycle’ going to Mulayam Singh’s faction.
 
 The estimate is that the faction that gets the old identity would be able to generate support among SP’s core voters.
 
 While Congress believes that Akhilesh has cornered the bulk of the Samajwadi base with his promise of development politics, Mulayam can eat into his son’s base if he is able to go into the polls with ‘cycle’ as his mascot.
 
 Thus, the EC’s decision to “freeze” the ‘cycle’ and allot new identifiers to SP’s splinter groups would ensure that the Yadav patriarch does not have the advantage that can help him claw back among his domestic constituency, especially Yadavs and other OBCs, and Muslims.
 
 Congress is looking to ride on Akhilesh’s popularity and his captive base to emerge with respectability in the UP elections. Though badly marginalised in cowbelt politics, Congress’s symbolic strength lies in its positioning as the lead anti-BJP player on the national scene, thereby having the ability to woo the vast Muslim community. For the Akhilesh faction, a partnership with Congress would help in staving off the drift of minorities towards rival BSP.
 
