KOZHIKODE: The early setting in of drought conditions in the   spread across Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have triggered   of   to the   (WWS) ahead of time. This has raised the spectre of intensification of human-wildlife conflict in Wayanad, which is reeling under a severe monsoon deficit.

 The seasonal migration of animals to the WWS which used to start normally in February had commenced in the last week of December itself. This is linked to scarcity of water and fodder in the adjoining sanctuaries of Mudumalai , Bandipur and  .
 
 “We are currently witnessing heavy inward movement of wildlife to the WWS, which would take the population density in 344 sq km sanctuary to saturation level this summer. The surge in wildlife population coupled with drought conditions in summer is l ikely to further intensify the human-animal conflict in the forest fringe villages,“ said P Dhanesh Kumar, warden, WWS.
 
 WWS authorities are expecting the elephant population in the sanctuary, estimated to be around 720, to surge by another 30% this summer due to migration.“Compared to the grim water situation in Nagarahole and Bandipur, the WWS is better placed with 80% of the 167 water holes in the sanctuary having adequate water.We have taken a series to steps to ensure water availability including desilting of water bodies and construction of checkdams,“ Dhanesh Kumar added. There are chances of exacerbation of the human-wildlife conflict this year because of 68% monsoon deficit in Wayanad.WWS had received 965 wildlife compensation claims during 2015-16 and had provided Rs 76 lakh as compensation to the affected persons. The wildlife conflict had resulted in eight human injuries, seven instances of house damages and 871 instances of crop damage.
 
 He said that they have posted 100 additional forest watchers to monitor and mitigate human-wildlife conflicts and prevent forest fires in the summer. Environmentalists want the department to expedite the voluntary relocation of around 600 human settlements within the WWS as a long-term solution.
 
 “The migration of wildlife is a sign of the eco-system integrity of the WWS which should be preserved. Steps should be taken to prevent further fragmentation of the habitat and spread of invasive plant species,“ said Arul Badusha, field officer of   programme.
 
