BHOPAL:   on the ruling BJP government over escalating price of petrol and diesel in  , former chief minister and   shot a missive to the state finance minister Jayant Malaiya demanding a reduction in   (VAT) imposed on petroleum products.

 “I wish to draw your attention towards an important issue, which is directly related to the state’s economy. The VAT imposed on petrol and diesel in the state is the highest here compared to neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. This has resulted in a decline in the sale of petroleum products in the state. I request you to cut down VAT in the interest of the public”, read the letter by Gaur.
 
 The BJP veteran’s letter has given a fresh opportunity to the rival Congress, who had been raising the issue in the public to attack the ruling party ahead of assembly elections next year. Gaur said that petroleum products were excluded from the ambit of GST and states were given rights to decide on the VAT on petrol and diesel.
 
 Gaur said Madhya Pradesh has imposed 27% VAT on diesel and 31% VAT on petrol, which is the highest among all the neighbouring states. The state has also levied an extra tax of Rs 1.50 on diesel and Rs 4 on petrol. This has resulted into a steep fall in the sale of petroleum products in the state and people and traders residing on the border districts were purchasing petroleum products from the neighbouring states.
 
 “In MP, the sale of petroleum products has fallen by 60%, while other states have recorded an escalation of 3.67% to 9.3% in the sale of petroleum products. Petrol is cheaper by Rs 7 in Uttar Pradesh and sale has increased by 9.33% there. Similarly, petrol is cheaper by Rs 4 in neighbouring Maharashtra and the state has recorded an increase of 6.06% in the sale of petroleum products”, said Gaur.
 
 “The state government must consider slashing VAT on petroleum products in the interest of MP’s economy and public welfare”, Gaur said.
 
 Reacting to Gaur’s letter, Congress said that e BJP government ruled by Shivraj Singh Chouhan would face the consequences of imposing high taxes on petroleum products.
 
 “It is ironical that a senior BJP leader has drawn the attention of the party towards a public demand, while most of the public representatives are apathetic to the issue. It shows that BJP has ignored public welfare”, said Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra, adding that Congress would launch a state-wide agitation on price rise.
 
 BJP, on its part said there was no increase on taxes since the BJP came to power and all the allegations are baseless. “It was Congress who had imposed more tax during its regime. Those who are raising questions on taxes have no idea about the tax structure and revenue collection by the government”, reacted BJP state spokesperson Deepak Vijayavargiya without naming Gaur.
 
