CHANDIGARH: Punjabi NRIs have decided to play a more constructive role in the 2017 assembly polls rather than be seen as mere “moneybags“. A planeload of Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP)   supporters from Toronto will be landing at Delhi airport on a KLM chartered flight past Wednesday midnight, before heading to different parts of Punjab as part of  's “Chalo Punjab“ campaign.

 AAP supporters from other parts of the world like Cyprus too are coming. The party has been in touch with them through the “Chalo Punjab“ mobile application. Another large group of Punjabi NRIs will be arriving at Amritsar from UK this month.
 
 Where some have rescheduled their vacations to coincide with the campaign period, others have been involved in a telecalling drive to make people in their native villages aware of the AAP policies. Joban Randhawa, youth convener of AAP overseas, who is handling the “Chalo Punjab“ campaign told TOI, “As many as 35,000 Punjabi NRIs have registered themselves with the party, and expressed interest in coming here.“ Randhawa said, “This is unprecedented for any  . This flight has 180-odd NRIs on board. While the majority are from Toronto, some will be joining in from Amsterdam.“
 
 Surinder Mavi, 32, AAP convener of Toronto, was the one who thought of the chartered flight and arranged most of the tickets, even though the party also pooled in resources. “The response to the “Chalo Punjab campaign“ has been very encouraging and hundreds of people are anxiously waiting to join in,“ he said.
 
 The NRIs from   will be received by AAP's Delhi and Punjab leadership at Delhi's IGI airport.
 
 “Around 3,500 Punjabi NRIs have already arrived and hundreds more would be here in the coming days.
 
 They will be making vote ap peals for AAP in their native areas and touring other parts of the state,“ he said.
 
 People with good oratory skills will be spearheading the campaign. “There will be a total of six teams that will tour the state in the coming days,“ said Kamaljit Singh, a   from Canada, who will be flying to Punjab next week.
 
 The NRI cell of AAP has been running campaigns on social media with hashtags like “#AAP4NawaPunjab“ and “ChaloPunjab“ for sometime and NRIs who could not make it are posting videos of vote appeal on Twitter and WhatsApp.
 
 
 
 
 AAP leaders claim that most of the NRIs are keen on campaigning in Majitha where the party is locked in a key contest. “The NRIs want to raise the issue of drugs. That is why a large rally has been planned in Majitha on the last day of campaigning ­ February 2. It will be a show of strength of the party. Before that, a road show will also be organised there,“ said Randhawa.
 
