BENGALURU: It was supposed to be a concert for a good cause. But French DJ and music producer David Guetta’s show in the city, scheduled for Thursday night, was cancelled with just hours to go.

 The organisers said the concert was cancelled because “authorities” advised against it following the molestation nightmare on December 31.
 
 But police dismissed the claim and said elections to the local Agricultural Produce Market Committee were to be held the same day and the organisers had sought permission too late. The man behind hits like “Titanium” and “Dangerous” is set to perform in Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad.
 
 Guetta was to perform a charity concert in Bengaluru called #Guetta4Good, and over 10,000 people were to attend. On Thursday morning, a message on the Sunburn website said the concert at the Embassy International Riding School in Devanahalli was being cancelled for the time being.
 
 An official statement later released to the media quoted Sunburn CEO Karan Singh as saying, “Due to the present law and order situation in Bengaluru following the events that transpired around New Year’s Eve, the authorities have recommended against holding the  ... the authorities, understandably, are not prepared to take any chances. We hope to reschedule the concert... Other shows in Mumbai, New Delhi and Hyderabad are on as per schedule”.
 
 The statement by Sunburn went viral and the reason for the cancellation stumped Bengalureans as concerts featuring international artistes have been held without incident in India’s “concert city”.
 
 Bengaluru Rural police said they denied permission for the concert as elections to the local Agricultural Produce Market Committee were being held the same day and organisers had approached them for permission only two days before the event.
 
 Harindra Singh, chairman of Percept Live, the live entertainment division of Percept Ltd which owns Sunburn and other intellectual properties, said, “We approached the administration last week for permission to hold it at another venue.
 
 When permission was denied, we applied for permission to hold it at the new venue (Embassy International Riding School) on Monday... whatever was their reason for not giving us permission, we have got to take their ‘No’ to mean ‘No’.” Taking serious exception to the concert organiser’s tweet that permission was denied over law and order, IG (central range) Seemant Kumar Singh and Bengaluru Rural SP Amit Singh said the organisers were defaming Bengaluru Rural police for no reason. Later in the evening, the controversial statement was removed and another statement issued, admitting that permission from the police had been sought too late. It said, “The   concert-...stands cancelled because permission was denied... it has now been clarified that the primary reason for this is a date clash with APMC elections...due to which the police couldn’t deploy enough manpower.
 
 
