BARNALA: Punjab chief minister   was at pains to describe the loss of long-time political companion and friend-turned-foe former CM   at his memorial service on Sunday. Putting aside political differences, Badal attended the bhog ceremony of Barnala and described him a statesman-like politician. Barnala (91), who remained a Union minister and governor of four states, passed away on January 14 after a brief illness.Badal tried to come closer to the bereaved Barnala family and stopped short of announcing a memorial in his name. “Due to the code of conduct, I could not announce anything. But, if SAD retains power, we will plan amemorial as per the wishes of the family,“ he said, while paying tributes to the former Akali leader at the grain market of Barnala.

 Few months ago, Barnala family had joined the Congress.However, the former CM's memorial service turned into a virtual Akali show due to the presence of a large number of party leaders. No leader from the Congress was there to pay tributes to Barnala. Even senior AAP leaders did not attend the memorial service. AAP's Barnala constituency candidate, Meet Hayer, was the only one from the party to attend the event. All India   Punjab unit chief   was there to pay tributes to Barnala.
 
 On Friday, deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal had flown to Barnala to express grief with the former CM's family and had termed him like his father. Whi le paying tributes, the CM said he was the only one alive from among the old companions of Barnala. “I remember our long association. Barnala was a gentle politician who never lost his cool. I could never forget the long time spent in captivity at Panchmari in Madhya Pradesh during the Emergency. Though we were detained in separate areas in MP, we had a lot in common during captivity,“ he said.
 
 SAD secretary general and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa admitted to political differences with Barnala, but added he never used unparliamentary words for his adversaries, which made him different from politicians of today.
 
 Row over speeches before ardas
 
 Sehajdhari Sikh Party chief  , who was a close associate of Surjit Singh Barnala's family, left the venue of Surjit Singh Barnala's bhog ceremony. Ranu claimed politicians gave their speeches before arads, and that it was in violation of Sikh tenets
 
