MEERUT/LUCKNOW: As fresh rounds of violence continued in   on Wednesday, leaving one more dead and several injured, the Uttar Pradesh government suspended the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police. A total of 24 people have been arrested for Tuesday's violence while the district administration has directed telecom companies to suspend internet services in the trouble-torn region.

 CM Yogi Adityanath Yogi held two rounds of meeting with principal secretary (home) Arvind Kumar and director general of police (DGP) Sulkhan Singh to take stock of the situation in Saharanpur. Later, he issued an appeal asking people to “beware of provocative statements and not fall prey to incitement“. “Some people are trying to disturb peace and harmony in the state and strict action will be initiated against those behind the violence in Saharanpur,“ the CM said.
 
 The state government said it would provide Rs 15 lakh as compensation to the family of the man killed in on Tuesday. The injured will be given Rs 50,000 each. On Tuesday evening, shortly after reports of fresh violence came in, the state government directed a four-member team including home secretary Mani Prasad Mishra, ADG (law & order) Aditya Mishra, IG of UP STF Amitabh Yash, to rush to Saharanpur. The officials have been directed to stay put in Saharanpur till normalcy is restored.
 
  NP Singh and   Subhash Chandra Dubey were suspended on the basis of ADG Mishra's report which accused the two officers of negligence. Muzaffarnagar SSP Babloo Kumar has been moved to Saharanpur in the same capacity while Agra Development Authority vice-chairman Pramod Kumar Pandey has been sent to the restive district to take charge as the DM.
 
 This came even as Pradeep Chauhan, a 20-year-old Thakur youth, was shot by unidentified assailants in Saharanpur on Wednesday. He later died. Police, however, claimed that the Thakur youth's murder “could be a result of personal enmity.“ In another case, Nitin Kumar, 25, and Yashpal Singh, 55, were attacked while on their way to a brick kiln for work in   village of the district. Nitin Kumar, who was referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College in Meerut, said, “We were going to the brick kiln when more than two dozen men with their faces covered came out of the bushes and began attacking us with sharp edged weapons.“
 
