Having the same surname as the country’s most infamous flier is proving to be a bother for fellow MP  . The BJP MP from Latur claims that he has had to undergo extra scrutiny at airport, ever since Shiv   Ravindra Gaikwad’s aggressive behaviour aboard an Air India flight last week. The Sena MP has since been banned from flying by all domestic airlines. And this has posed some problems for his namesake.

 “At every check point, the airport security demanded multiple identity cards and questioned me at length,” claimed Sunil Gaikwad. This first happened on his trip from Delhi to Pune last Friday, a day after his fellow Parliamentarian assaulted an Air India official with a slipper. He said that the same treatment was meted out to him on his way back to Delhi on Monday. He is the only other Gaikwad in the Lok Sabha. “Is having the Gaikwad surname a crime now,” the MP exclaimed.
 
 He also appeared sympathetic towards the Shiv Sena MP. “Airlines should also behave properly with their customers. In fact, if you see the video footage of the incident, it is clear that it is the MP who is getting shoved and abused.” In a jibe at the party the MP belongs to, Gaikwad added, “Shiv Sena MPs have a tendency to boast, which is why he claimed to have beaten the airline staff 25 times with his chappal,” Sunil told Mirror.
 
 Other than their surname, both the MPs also share the boundary of their constituencies. While Sunil Gaikwad represents Latur,   is from Osmanabad. In fact 100 villages of Latur district fall under Osmanabad constituency.
 
 As the Modi government has taken a strong stand against Ravindra Gaikwad and is backing airlines to remain firm on the fly-ban, Sunil Gaikwad finds himself in a sticky situation as he can’t be seen as going against the party line.
 
 Yet, he did meet Minister of State for Civil Aviation Jayant Sinha to lodge a protest and claimed that he was thinking of other Gaikwads too.
 
 “If I am facing this kind of treatment despite being a parliamentarian, then what about the hundreds of other Gaikwads,” he remarked.
 
 
 
 The Shiv Sena on Thursday urged Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan to ask domestic airlines to withdraw the flying ban imposed on its MP Ravindra Gaikwad for the ongoing budget session. Gaikwad is also likely to meet the Speaker in a couple of days. “We requested the Speaker to instruct concerned authorities to withdraw the travel ban imposed on Gaikwad for the ongoing session,” said Rahul Shewale, party MP from South Central Mumbai.
 
