CHENNAI: A day after the   ended in violence, actor   on Tuesday said the protest was a symbol of larger discontent and the momentum must be sustained.

 The actor, who had tweeted that he had spoken to chief minister O Paneerselvam after violence had broken out, said he wanted the government to meet the protesters. “We can imagine that if MGR was the chief minister, he would have gone to the beach and joined the protesters,” he said. “And if they didn't allow him or raised slogans against him, MGR would have gone to lay down on the other side of the road near the DGP's office and said he is also joining their fast or agitation,” Haasan said at a press conference.
 
 Former Madras high court judge Justice Hari Paranthaman acted as a mediator to explain the process of lawmaking and convinced the protesters that adoption of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment), Act, 2017 was a “permanent solution“ and a victory for them, Haasan said.
 
 The actor expressed shock over the videos in which policemen could be seen indulging in arson. He said an explanation should provided and hoped that they were not real policemen in the videos.The actor, who has been vocal in his support for the students protest on jallikattu, said in a democracy nothing should be banned whether it is films, bulls or PeTA. Stating that animal welfare organisations were required in a society, Haasan urged for dialogue without anger.
 
 Haasan compared the pro-jallikattu demonstration to the anti-Hindi agitation of the 1960s in which he had participated without his parents' permission but applauded new age parents who came along with their children to the Marina.
 
 
 
 
  (PeTA) has responded to actor Kamal Haasan's tweet daring them to ban bull-riding rodeos in US. “PeTA go ban bull riding rodeos in Mr.Trump's U.S. You're not qualified to tackle our bulls,” the actor had tweeted on January 22. PeTA India's CEO Poorva Joshipura issued a statement on Tuesday saying that bullfighting was illegal in the US. “PeTA US has been working to stop animal abuse in the US since 1980, where bullfighting is illegal and cruel activities associated with the rodeo, which Haasan refers to, are also against law in many states.
 
