PATNA:   has prepared a blueprint to develop Pataliputra Junction as a model station under Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR). 

 According to Danapur DRM R K Jha, railways has decided to build a floor on the station where all required passenger amenities would be made available. An airconditioned waiting room, RPF post, electrical office, carriage and wagon office, linen supply room and rest rooms for loco pilots and guards will also be built on the first floor of the station building, he said.
 
 Jha said the project would cost Rs 16 crore. It includes beautification of the station premises and circulating area as well. Under the new plan, there would be coach indication display boards and sheds with additional benches to protect passengers in rainy and summer seasons. Railways intends to provide one more foot overbridge (FOB) connecting platform number 1, 2 and 3, he said.
 
 Besides, a concrete shed would be constructed at the main exit point of the station. A ramp has also to be built near the main entrance to facilitate passengers in carrying their luggage and goods easily. A boundary wall has also been planned around the station periphery to check trespassers, the DRM said.
 
 According to Jha, Pataliputra Junction is likely to take off major traffic load from Patna Junction after completion of its development plan by 2019. Though there are three tracks at Patliputra Junction, railways has the plan to make another exit point at the west end like Karbighaiya side of Patna Junction. A huge complex is being built on 21 acres of land at Jalalapur near Pataliputra Junction for maintenance of passenger train rakes, he said, adding that it would be ready by March 2019.
 
 Pataliputra Junction, which is providing direct connectivity to north Bihar stations as well as UP capital Lucknow, has received an overwhelming response from passengers, Jha said.
 
 According to sources, railways held several meetings with the district administration in the past to run state government buses on the pattern of ring service so that passengers could find it convenient to reach Pataliputra Junction from far-off places or reach their destinations after train journey safely. The district administration has assured railways of full cooperation to provide transport services directly from the station area to the outskirts of the state capital, sources said.
 
 
