MYSURU: Mysuru City Corporation officials have knocked the doors of the government seeking for police powers for civic employees to act tough   officials and giving false information about properties or ownership. 

 There is a provision under Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act 1976 wherein government may empower any corporation officer or servant or any class of corporation officers or servants to exercise the powers of police officer . In certain matters, civic employees can exercise police powers by detaining trouble mongers and then initiate legal proceedings against them within 24 hours.
 
 According to the act, if any person committing offence against any provisions of this act or any rule, bye-law or regulation made under it, and if anyone declines to give name and address, which the officer has reason to believe as false, such persons can be arrested. But the officials can’t detained such persons for more than 24 hours without the order of a magistrate. 
 
 In the wake of an alleged life threat issued to corporator P Prashanth by a traders group when he questioned the encroachment of a temple trust property in his ward, the corporator at a recent council meeting unanimously demanded the house to ensure protection to them. 
 
 Council members felt there was no safety for them, saying that this was not the first incident the corporator was facing threats from ‘hooligans.’ He also said that police did not come immediately to their rescue. Corporation officers are left helpless in such situation, he added. 
 
 Initially, Prashanth claimed that his complaint wasn’t entertained by police and it was treated as a non-cognizable offence. Though encroachers built a wall overnight to gobble up prime property, police failed to act immediately and even civic officials feared to take action against the traders. 
 
 The issue was discussed at length before   commissioner   who informed the house that there is a provision under Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act 1976 wherein government may empower any corporation officer or servant to exercise the powers of a police officer. Based on this, the house, chaired by Mayor  , okayed unanimously and now the issue is before the government. 
 
