As Kochi   is expected to begin com mercial operations within two months the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is in the process of speeding up civil works. The metro authority has set July 31 as the target to complete entire civil works along the Palarivattom-Maharaja's stretch.

 “Civil works at   and Lisie stations have made an excellent progress as 90% of it is over. At MG Road station, 80% work is done.Construction of exit and entry points at  's station will take considerable time and there could be some delay. Certain civil works at JLN stadium station will also take time,“ said the DMRC spokesperson.
 
 According to the Metro authority they have completed installing escalators and lifts in all stations in the second reach except at Maharaja's College. Cable laying works are progressing at four stations.
 
 “The platforms were ready before starting trial runs. Now we have to complete levelling and flooring works. The construction of stairways has also been done,“ said the spokesperson.
 
 The Metro authority said they have completed installation of indoor and outdoor hardware or physical components of signalling system. “Almost 80% of installing such equipment is over. Then we will have to link it with the software programme for incorporating the Palarivattom-Maharaja's college stretch with the communication-based train control system.The migration plan testing will be done after August 20,“ added the spokesperson.
 
 DMRC said the signal trial run will be held in mid-August and will be ready for inspection by commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) by August 31. Meanwhile, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) said that interior works including installation of ticket vending machines and other equipment will be undertaken after completing civil works.
 
 Regarding the development of parking spaces KMRL said they have about one acre of land available near Kaloor station. They plan to develop parking as well as commercial spaces on this land. KMRL also said that sufficient land was available at JLN stadium for developing parking spaces.
 
 “We have not made a final decision regarding parking spaces at Lisie, MG Road and Maharaja's stations. We are considering the option of joining hands with Kochi corporation to develop parking,“ the spokesperson said.
 
 The trial run along JLN stadium-Maharaja's college stretch started on Friday , and was scheduled to be completed by early hours of Sunday . KMRL said rolling stock and track test were done during the initial trials. A compatibility test was also done as part of the trial run along the stretch between JLN stadium and Palarivattom stations.
 
