Vadodara: The local crime branch (LCB), western railways busted a gang of thieves that used to steal valuables of passengers in running trains across the state. The cops arrested six persons from the city over last few days after the gang leader spilled the beans and revealed whereabouts of the other members. The investigating team also recovered stolen items worth Rs 7.91 lakh from the accused. 

 The police said that this gang was active in the state since last six months. “They used to operate carts at Delhi railway station but they were not earning much. So the accused decided to come to state and steal valuables from trains here as the passengers are well-off,” said Sharad Singhal, SP, western railways. 
 
 The accused used to buy passenger tickets and board general compartment of any train from Surat. They used to enter the sleeper class and even AC coaches and steal mobile phones and women’s purses. The gang first conducted recce in the coaches and then stole the valuables when the passengers slept off. Two of the gang members used to steal mobile phones, the other two stole purses and rest kept an eye around. 
 
 The police said that Raju Kushwah, who was arrested a fortnight ago, was the leader of the gang. The other accused identified as Ajaysinh Fogatiya; Pradeep Sindhi, both residents of Rajasthan; Javed Ali Sheikh, resident of Haryana; Deepak Jha and Aryan Malhotra, of Delhi used to steal items and hand it over to Raju. 
 
 “Raju used to then sell off the jewellery and mobile phones to shops or individuals. He used to distribute the cash among the members. The gang has admitted to have stolen nearly 80 mobile phones,” Singhal told TOI.
 
 The gang that used to stay in a rented house in Surat have committed nine offences at Vadodara railway station, seven offences at Surat, one offence at Nadiad, one at Ahmedabad and two at Bharuch. The cops have recovered 146 grams of gold jewellery, 75 grams of silver jewellery and 17 mobile phones. “We are yet to arrest four other gang members,” said SJ Rajput, police inspector, LCB, western railways. 
 
 
