When he first came to Bengaluru in 1919, poet and Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore was yet another dignitary in the city, attending events and giving lectures. By the time his last visit happened in 1928, Tagore's ties to the city had deepened and he chose to finish two of his masterpieces while living here.

 On the 156th birth anniversary of Tagore, city historians recall that it was here that he chose to finish his novel Shesher Kabita, which would later became a landmark piece of Bengali literature.
 
 Tagore's first visit was on January 11, 1919 as a chief guest at the All India Festival of Fine Arts held from January 12 to 18 by the celebrated Amateur Dramatic Association (ADA). The poet, who was on a tour of south India, arrived here by train from Madras a day earlier and stayed at the Balabrooie Guest House.The heritage structure was the official residence of Kantharaj Urs, the Diwan of Mysore.
 
 “Newspapers reported that Bengaluru was in festive mode awaiting the visit of R a bindranath Tagore. A large pandhal was erected on an open ground in front of the SLN High School near   and crowds gathered from the morning of January 12 to catch a glimpse of the poet who arrived around 6pm and inaugurated the event,“ says city historian and author Vemagal Somashekar. At the venue, Tagore gave his famous lecture, 'The message of the forest.' A centenary souvenir released by ADA describes the week-long event when Tagore was treated with much fanfare. He also visited Lalbagh and attended other events in the city and left for Mysuru by train on January 18. The Balabrooie Guest House still has a plaque stating that `Rabindranath Tagore stayed here in 1919'.
 
 Tagore returned to Bengaluru less than two months later, this time on the invitation of Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV, the ruler of Mysore. On the evening of March 9, Tagore gave a 90-minute lecture at the Mythic Society on  , on folk religions of India. The quarterly journal published by the Society describes the lecture as 'a gripping one for the esteemed attendees in cluding the Maharaja who later spoke at length praising the poet's knowledge on the subject'. The same night, Tagore left for Madras.
 
 Tagore returned to the city in September 1922 to deliver a lecture on `A vision of India's history.' June 1928 marked his final and longest visit to Bengaluru when he arrived from Madras after cancelling his trip to England due to ill health. He stayed at the residence of the then Mysore Univer sity vice-chancellor Brajendra Nath Seal.
 
 According to  , founderconvener of Tagore Cultural Centre in Ulsoor, his final visit was critical. “During his three-week stay in Bengaluru, Tagore penned   and also completed his famous novel Jogajog which he was working in instalments during his tours at the time,“ says the chemical engineer, who is also a Tagore researcher.
 
 
