HOWRAH/KOLKATA: A day after the attempt to   on a Kalighat businessman and his wife, one of the prime accused, Roshan Lal Bordoi, was found dead in a   on Sunday morning. The knife with which both  , the businessman, and his wife Sarala were attacked on Saturday, was also found in the bag Roshan was carrying. Another accused and aide of Roshan, who checked in the same room of the lodge, is absconding. While police are yet to confirm the motive behind the attack a day before, sources hinted at a recent tiff between Narendra and Roshan at the race course.

 Narendra, also known as Nandu, is a bookmaker at the race course. Bookies in the race course on Sunday said Roshan (40) was recently seen assisting Narendra at the race course. Police on Sunday did not rule out a tiff between Roshan and Narendra following which the former and his aide might have attacked the Kalighat resident and his wife. On Saturday, Roshan was spotted by his neighbours at his   apartment. Later at night, Roshan went to the Kalighat residence of Narendra — also his relative — and Sarala, took the duo to the terrace and stabbed them there before fleeing the spot. Roshan also had a textile retail business. 
 
 After leaving the Kalighat residence of Narendra, Roshan and his aide were looking for a place to hide and planning to leave the city. They reached Howrah around 10pm and started looking for a lodge. “They checked in at room No. 112 of Mahabir Lodge. They had told the lodge owner that they would check out in the morning around 6am. The security guard of the lodge saw his associate early in the morning around 3.45am. He went out to have tea and said he would come back soon. When he did not return till 7am, the lodge owner informed police. Cops opened the room locked from outside and found Roshan’s body on the bed. While there was no strangulation mark on him, injury marks, likely impact of Saturday night’s commotion, were found on his hands,” said a source.
 
 Seeing froth oozing out of his mouth, police suspected a death from poisoning. Later they recovered a bottle of poison from the room too. Viscera reports have also pointed at death from poisoning. “We got to know about his identity from the documents he was carrying. Later we got in touch with Kolkata Police to ascertain that he’s the same person who tried to murder the duo at Kalighat on Saturday night,” said D P Singh, commissioner (Howrah).
 
 
