BIJNOR: A host of problems stand in the way of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s commitment of providing 18 hours of   to   and   to urban parts. The 4,500km-long   are decades old and weary, and often burn due to overloading. Besides, incessant transformer faults due to excess load also cause long shutdowns in the district.
 
  Power corporation officials say that the new state government may have promised better supply, but work on improving the overall infrastructure hasn’t even started. According to them, 600-700 incidents of transformer burnings are reported every month from across the region.
  
  Even the power transmission centres are suffering from excess load. For instance, the Nehtaur power house, which has a capacity of 420 MVA (Mega Volt Ampere), is currently bearing 650 MVA load. This power house provides electricity to most parts of the district and officials have to frequently cut supply to manage overloading.
  
  There are over 60 substations in the district and about 20% of them are at least 30 years old and are also overloaded. When contacted, Ranjeet Singh, superintendent engineer, Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL), said, “It is right that Nehtaur power house is bearing excess load. Because of this, we have to cut supply for two-three hours extra. The Swahedi power house will be made operational from next month which will share load from Nehtaur centre. Besides, six other substations are also under construction in the district. The 4,500km-long old overhead wires will also be replaced gradually.”
  
  District president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Digambar Singh, said, “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that 18 hours of power will be supplied in rural area and 24 hours in district headquarters. But power authorities are not complying with his instructions. I had raised this issue in front of the district magistrate three days ago. Most of the wires in rural area are very old and weary. Transformers and power houses are overloaded. Even when electricity is supplied, farmers face the problem of low voltage and cannot operate tubewells. Currently, several areas are getting only 10 to 12 hours of supply each day.”
