It has been a few days since the 10%   in restaurants was made optional. While diners, tired of paying the multiple taxes and charges everytime they eat out, welcomed the move, restaurateurs were obviously not thrilled by it. However, when we visited Gurgaon's markets, most restaurateurs told us that very few customers are asking for the service charge to be waived off from their bill. They attribute it to the city’s sophisticated diners. Restaurants also say that they have so many great offers for diners that they don’t mind paying the 10% service charge. 

 
 
 Gurgaon restaurants say that the city's residents are "too sophisticated" to ask for the service charge to be waived off. Vijay, manager, Italiano in  , says, "In two days, we haven't had a single customer who asked us to remove the service charge from their bill. In Cyber Hub, people are not bothered about these things. In fact, they even tip the wait staff separately. I won’t say that customers are not aware of the new development. But if they are not mentioning it, that means they are cool with paying."
 
 
 
 Aman, operational manager,  , says, "We have many offers for customers. And it’s not just us, most outlets have happy hours, discounts, and special offers. Agar aap customer ko `500 ka profit doge toh woh kya `100 ka service charge hatane ko bolenge? However, we have put up a notice stating that we levy service tax."
 Another restaurant manager in Cyber Hub tells us, "We had just one customer who was not willing to pay the service charge. I told him that since he had already paid the bill, we couldn’t have returned the money. The service charge was around `200, so we offered him a dessert, which costs around Rs 300."
 Pradeep Chand, manager,   in Cyber Hub says, "It was not mandatory earlier, and it still isn't mandatory. We have mentioned it on our menu. Last year, we had a customer who refused to pay service charge, so we returned his money. Most of our guests are corporate employees and foreigners who care more about the service we provide, the quality of food and not the charges being levied. If it turns out ugly then NRAI will challenge it in the court, in fact we are already planning to, but here at Cyber Hub, our customers also give us equal respect."
 
 
 
 Nitin Kumar, manager,   says, "We don’t keep the service charge with us, we give it to the staff. If you don’t pay the tip, you pay the service charge. In other fields, they have incentives and bonuses for their employees, in the hospitality sector, service charge is the incentive, why deduct it?" A staff member at a fine-dining restaurant in Sector 29, adds, "The problem now is that a few customers will ask to deduct it, others will complain about the service just to waive off the service charge. Eventually, our manager will question us about the service offered to the client."
 
 
  
 
 Customers at different restaurants in Gurgaon are embarrassed to ask for it. Aditya Sinha, a senior administration manager at a firm, who lives in Sector 51, says, "The other day, I was tempted to ask the restaurant authorities to deduct my service charge, but I didn’t. I knew they would not deduct it easily and I didn’t want to create a scene, so I left without asking."
 Gurmeet Arora, head operations of an IT company, who lives in Sector 56, shares, "The restaurant staff stared down at me when I asked about the service charge. They directed me to their manager and I left the matter at that."
 
 
 
 Alex George, a Sector 49 resident who works in the HR department in an IT company, said, "I asked at two restaurants to deduct my service charge, and they agreed. However, they insisted that I should give them the details as to what exactly was wrong with their service. Why would I go to a restaurant that doesn’t have good food or satisfying service? I ended up paying the service charge."
 Vineet Khanna, a businessman who lives in Sushant Lok, said, “The manager of a restaurant asked me – 'Sir, didn’t you just mention that our food is always the best? If you liked the service, why are you refusing to pay for it? I paid and left."
 There are also a few places that are waiting for a formal notice to make service charge optional.
 
 
