At the press conference, a visibly traumatized   opened up about the aftermath of the fatal  . Excerpts: 

 Breaking into tears, the actor addressed those present at the do and said, "How many of you have had the misfortune of losing a friend who was the closest to you? To see her bleed from all over, to admit her to the emergency? If you have had that experience, you will know how painful it is.   was very very dear to me — amar khub kaachher chhilo. She was an important part of my life and losing her hasn't been easy on me too. I am aware that my pain today in incomparable to that of her parents but since the time I have realised what is happening outside, I have been feeling devastated. I don't have the desire to earn sympathy nor do I need it but I wholeheartedly wish she was here today, even if it was at the cost of me not living on this planet. If I had perished in the car crash, I wouldn't be regretting. I didn't step out of the hospital since that fateful night. The reason, only doctors will be able to tell you all. Yes, I was admitted later but those who were attending to me while I was undergoing stitches on my head, told me I should be admitted immediately. Honestly, at that point, I didn't even think of myself. Throughout, I wanted to be beside Sonika in whichever way I could. It was only after my family reached the hospital that I was convinced in admitting myself to seek treatment. And by that time, Sonika had passed away. She was not there for more than an hour. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Since the time I regained my senses, I have been wanting to talk but I wasn't allowed to. First, the doctors said, I am reeling under stress and shouldn't talk much. Amar naki kotha bola barun. Ami naki stress nite parbo na. Secondly, my family. My first duty was to surrender in court which I did. My second responsibility is to record a detailed statement in front of the police. Amidst this, I also have personal responsibility to attend to. I don't know how to face Sonika's family — I don't know what to tell them. But I want to stand in front of them once. 
 
 I know nothing will compensate the loss that her parents are facing today. I don't have the means to reduce their sorrow but if I can do anything at all for them, I'll do it. No matter what I say, I cannot reduce the pain of the loss that Sonika's parents feel today. It is a personal loss to me too, being one of the closest to her. The thought of living with the guilt is overpowering. And yes, it is selfish of me to think that way. Thus, I wish I wasn't here today. Whether I was at fault or not, the investigation will reveal but at the end of the day, since I was in the driver's seat, the car's responsibility was mine. I cannot explain where it hurts. I am not being able to compensate for the loss and the helplessness is overbearing. It was not speed that caused the accident. If it were, I would have owned up to it. But then again, what I say, proves nothing. The investigation is on and the truth will be revealed soon. The police will answer all the questions because they have access to documentations and evidences. Everyone deserves to know the truth and they will. Unfortunately, I am working on many projects. And I am not the only one working on them. Around 200 families are attached to those. Cheshta korbo jodi kaaj e phire jete pari so those families don't suffer because of me. Jodi phirte pari kaaj e, amay ektu support korben." 
 
 On being asked why he didn't call Sonika's parents soon after the accident, the actor said, "I didn't have a phone, neither mine, nor Sonika's. And I could remember only two numbers, my father's and a close friend's. I called them. Both of Sonika's phones were given to me much later. Mine was at  ." 
 
