NAGPUR: Students applying for   (JEE-Main) 2017 can heave a sigh relief, as the last date of   being extended till Jan 16. Fee can be paid for another 24 hours after that. The JEE unit informed that the extension is being given based on requests from candidates, parents and schools. The offline version of JEE will be held on April while the online tests will be held on April 8-9.

 From this year, students also have to submit their  , and JEE authorities have clarified about its use in a separate communique. “The use of Aadhaar for the applicants of JEE (Main) 2017 will result in accuracy of the applicants details. This will also help in ascertaining the applicants at the examination centres in a convenient and hassle free manner. Aadhaar obviates the need to produce multiple documents to prove one’s identity,” the note said.
 
 Applicants possessing Aadhaar have been asked to enter Aadhaar number, name, date of birth and gender in online application for JEE (Main) 2017 for the purpose of his/her identity and authentication. Applicants not yet enrolled for Aadhaar, are required to apply for Aadhaar in case he/she is entitled to obtain it. In order to facilitate such applications, the CBSE has specially set up facilitation centres in each city of examination for the purpose of  .
 
 The applicants can approach such facilitation centres, which will not charge any money from any applicant for Aadhaar enrolment. The list of the facilitation centres is available on www.jeemain.nic.in. Applicants who enrol for Aadhaar, but do not receive Aadhaar, have to enter 28 digit Aadhaar Enrolment ID printed on the Aadhar enrolment slip at the time of filling online application form.
 
 In case Aadhaar enrolment facility is not available at the facilitation centres, the applicants should submit a request for Aadhaar enrolment. The facilitation centre will issue a registration number to such applicants. This registration number should be entered by the applicants at the time of filling online application form.
 
 
