GANDHINAGAR: To meet its target of winning more than 150 of the 182 seats in the upcoming assembly elections, the state BJP government has suddenly expedited the long-pending work of giving land ownership title under the Forest Rights Act (FRA). The government instructed the state revenue, tribal development, forests and environment departments to improve co-ordination and complete the tall task of actually giving clear title of approved land to tribal people under FRA, in the next two months.

  At present, of 27 seats reserved for scheduled tribes (STs), the BJP has 10 seats and the Congress has 16 seats (one JDU). The BJP had earlier taken out an Adivasi Vikas Yatra, much ahead of the election. The BJP may see losses in the 40-odd patidar-dominated seats and 13 seats reserved for scheduled castes (SCs). The saffron party is hence pinning its hopes on making gains in ST-dominated seats to keep it at the 100 plus mark. In the 2014   elections, the BJP won all four ST seats so expects a clean sweep in assembly elections as well.
 
 At present, some 83,000 individual land allotment claims, about 4,600 group land allotment claims and around 800 other claims are pending for several years. The state government has given the concerned departments a target of giving title clearance in next two months to all the claimants.
 
 R C Meena, secretary of the tribal development department, said “According to the cabinet’s instructions, we are trying to give 7/12 land titles to all 83,000-odd claimants in the next two months. So far we have cleared around 47,000 claims while around 10,000 primary entries have been made. We expect to clear all claims in the next few months. All group and other claimants will be given land titles in the next two months in all districts.”
 
 The state BJP government has also taken up implementation of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act in 4,503 gram sabhas under 2,584 village panchayats in 50 predominantly tribal talukas in eight districts of the state during its Van and   earlier.
 
  gives tribal people living in forest areas various privileges, including minor forest produce and minor minerals. The income thus generated can be used to develop the region.
 
