An alumnus of   (HRC) and now a yoga advisor and teacher in the same college,   recently entered the  . His feat – performing 535 Surya Namaskars in one hour. The previous record was set by   from Bhiwani, Haryana, who completed 496 Surya Namaskars in an hour on International Yoga Day in 2016.

  Varun has now set his sights on the Guinness World Records and plans to perform Surya Namaskars 10,000 times in 100 hours. 
 
  
 Varun is elated after creating a new record and says that the feat wasn’t easy to achieve. "I have been practising for the last one year, doing yoga for six hours daily. It was not easy but now, it all seems worth it. My students are also very happy to know that I have created a new record. This will surely encourage them to take up yoga," he says, adding, "Times have changed. Pehle students ko lagta tha yoga sirf buddhe log karte hain, par aaj young students bhi seekhne aate hain, toh achha lagta hai."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Varun, who graduated from the college in 2010 with Sanskrit (Hons), says that he now plans to make it to the Guinness World Records. "This would be a one-of-its kind Guinness World Record. I have already started working on my training and I plan to make this record in November – I hope to perform a set of 12 Surya Namaskars 10,000 times in 100 hours. This will be the first time when someone will be attempt to set this record," he says. 
 
 
 Varun, who conducts yoga classes at HRC, adds that it is very important to have yoga sessions in all educational institutions. "I think all students should practise yoga for an hour daily. These days, students as young as those in class X or XII suffer from hypertension, especially before the Board exams. I have also seen that when exams approach, many students come to me and ask if there are Pranayamas which can help in reducing stress levels. I tell them that certain Pranayamas can not only calm your mind but can also improve concentration, and so I recommend these to my students," he says.
 
  
  
 
