GURUGRAM: Excel was a verb when the Kauravs and the Pandavs came to learn at the ashram of Guru  , on the outskirts of modern Delhi. Millennia later, that same soil has become home to Excel, the trademarked noun, and its siblings, Word, PowerPoint, and all of the other apps and services that software giant Microsoft is famous for.

 The Redmond-headquartered company set up its 90,000 sq ft Gurgaon office in 2014, around the time it acquired phone maker Nokia. As a tribute to the city’s name and long history, the office entrance is decorated with a representation of a banyan tree, symbolic of Dronacharya’s ashram.
 
 The artwork made from lights and cutouts covers a wall and the ceiling. Another similar tree is seen in the cafeteria. “We always give a lot of emphasis to local culture, and so we went and dug into the history of Gurgaon and found out that the place was earlier called  . Hence, we have done our rendition of Dronacharya’s banyan tree which is the heart of the office,” said  , Microsoft’s director, real estate & facilities, for APAC, India and Japan.
 
 Sanskrit shlokas on the walls at the reception amplify the traditional feel. One of these sums up the qualities of great people—courage in adversity, patience in prosperity, oratory in assembly, bravery in battle, steadfastness in fame, and attachment to knowledge.
 
 Modern materials and traditional effects blend without a crease. “We wanted the futuristic Microsoft and the rustic India to reflect in our office, and that is why we have brought together technology and local culture,” said Rathje.
 
 Hundreds of employees work out of the 10th floor office in Cybercity’s Epitome building. Most of the walls are painted in light shades and decorated with India-themed art. There are reproductions of famous artists like M F Hussain, and also pieces picked up from flea markets and scrap dealers.
 
 “We like to have artwork in our offices and have invested in art pieces from both seasoned and young artists from across India,” said Rathje.
 
 The Indian flavour also comes through in the lotus wall prints and old paintings from Rajasthan. Meeting and conference rooms are named after rivers and mountain ranges, such as Vindhya, Ganga and Beas. When it comes to the work area, ergonomics and employee comfort take precedence. The office space is divided into micro workspaces or neighbourhoods. The workspaces are kept open for a sense of togetherness and to make employees feel like a part of a relaxed, creative enterprise.
 
 “There is no fixed seating for anyone. One can sit where they want and there are all kinds of seating arrangements, including high, low, couches and desks,” said Rajthe.
 
 Long hours are quite common in software and marketing jobs, and when employees need a break, they have a choice of relaxation rooms equipped with massage chairs. The office also has indoor sports rooms and, of course, Xbox consoles.
 
 Microsoft officials said the Gurgaon office shows how the organisation has evolved over the years, integrating people, places and technology while reflecting its core values. 
 
 
