NEW DELHI: Nearly a week after it was 'advised' by regulator   to withdraw its Summer Surprise offer, Reliance   on Tuesday came up with yet another offer, giving a three-month complimentary plan to select highvalue users. Jio termed its new offering as a "regulatory compliant" plan.

 The ' ' offer promises three-month unlimited SMS, calling and data (1GB per day at 4G speed) to customers who have subscribed to its Prime plan (costing Rs 99 annually) and pay for Rs 309 plan. On the other hand, for those opting for Rs 509 plan, the daily high-speed data download limit will be 2GB.
 
 The new offer comes after the company had to pull the plug on the last scheme - Summer Surprise - after objections raised by Trai. While the regulator did not issue a statement regarding its decision, Jio had said then (last Thursday) that it had received an advisory by Trai to do so, and so it "accepts the decision".
 
  had on Monday complained against Jio to Trai, saying that the company was continuing to offer the Summer Surprise plan despite the withdrawal advice given by the regulator. 
 
 Jio has, however, refuted allegations raised by Vodafone and said it has withdrawn the offer from the market. "Jio Summer Surprise has been fully withdrawn, following the advice of Trai," the company said in its statement issued on Tuesday. "In order to smoothen the migration from free to paid services, Jio has implemented simple, affordable and regulatory compliant plans in customer interest."
 
 Jio officials did not specify the period for which the new offer will be made to the customers. Sunil Mittal, chairman of   that controls  , also had meetings with officials at Trai on Monday. 
 
 He is understood to have raised concerns regarding depleting revenues in the telecom industry, though there was no independent verification from the company.
 
 The company also opened up the new plan to nonPrime customers. "Considering the special benefits that are available to Prime members, customers who were unable to subscribe to Prime for any reason, can continue to do so by paying Rs 408 or Rs. 608 (Jio Prime + recharge price) to avail these benefits."
 
