BHUBANESWAR: Assembly speaker   on Friday resigned from his post, setting the tone for the much-hyped reshuffle in the council of ministers that chief minister   announced would happen very soon.

 Pujari, who was away in his constituency Sonepur, rushed here and submitted his resignation to deputy speaker   in the evening. 
 
 He refused to disclose the reason behind his sudden decision to quit or whether he was asked to resign, but celebration by his supporters back home indicated he could be inducted in the ministry. "I want to devote more time for the people of my constituency," he told the media when asked about his decision to quit from the speaker's post.
 
 Pujari's resignation is widely seen here as the countdown to Naveen's maiden exercise to rejig his three-year-old ministry in his fourth term in office.
 
 Among the names doing the rounds for a ministerial berth are Amar Satapathy, Ranendra Pratap Swain, Pujari, Ananta Das and  . Earlier in the day, after finishing yet another round of meeting with district functionaries at the BJD office here, Naveen said he would reshuffle his ministry very shortly. 
 
 "You will know that (reshuffle) very shortly," he said responding to queries if he planned to carry out the reshuffle in a day or two.
 
 Though no date has been announced yet for the reshuffle or the new ministers to take oath, talks are doing the rounds the chief minister could put things in place on Sunday before he leaves for New Delhi the next day to attend the meeting of Maoist-affected states. 
 
 Official sources said governor S C Jamir, who had gone to his native place, is expected to return to Bhubaneswar on Saturday. The parliamentary affairs department has already been asked to make necessary preparations for the swearing-in ceremony, sources pointed out.
 
 Amid all this, speculation is rife Naveen could drop nearly a dozen ministers including some of those embroiled in controversies like the chit fund scam.   insiders said two major factors - improvement in the quality of governance and strengthening the BJD to counter the growing influence of   - could play a decisive role in changing the faces in the ministry.
 
