Coimbatore:   University signed an MoU with Sri Krishna Sweets on Monday evening to organise free music classes for children between classes 1 and 9. The one-year programme will be for a batch of 50 students.

 “After successfully organising the programme ‘Chinnachiru Kuyilgal’ for seven years, we are entering into an MoU with Sri Krishna Sweets this year. This initiative is to train children in traditional music,” said the head of music department of the university Janaka Maya Devi.
 
 The programme has been designed to teach the nuances of singing to the children. The students will be selected based on a screening test. “We plan to choose 50 students, but if the demand is high we are open to taking up to 100 students,” said the chancellor of Avinashilingam University P R Krishna Kumar.
 
 So far, 700 students have been benefitted out of this programme. “The classes will be held between 3pm and 5pm at the university for 50 weeks. Towards the end of the programme, an examination will be held,” said the managing director of Sri Krishna Sweets M Krishnan. “Candidates with minimum 80% of attendance will be given a certificate. Also, based on recommendation of examiners, we will give ‘Bala Vani’ certificates to a maximum of five students,” he added.
 
 Students can apply for the programme on srikrishnasweets.net. The programme will be inaugurated on August 13, and the classes will commence from the following week.
 
 Avinashilingam University signed an MoU with Sri Krishna Sweets on Monday evening to organise free music classes for children between classes 1 and 9. The one-year-long programme will be rendered free for a batch of 50 students.
 
 “After successfully organising this programme called Chinnachiru Kuyilgal for seven years, we are entering into an MoU with Sri Krishna sweets this year. This initiative is to train children in traditional music,” said the head of music department Janaka Maya Devi.
 
 The programme has been designed in such a way that it will teach the nuances of signing to the children. The students will be selected based on a screening test. “We plan to choose 50 students, but if the demand is high we are open to taking up to 100 students,” said the chancellor of Avinashilingam University, P R Krishna Kumar.
 
 So far, 700 students have been benefitted out of this programme. “The classes will be held between 3 and 5pm at the Avinashilingam University for 50 weeks. Towards the end of the programme, an examination will be held,” said the managing director of Sri Krishna Sweets, M Krishnan. “Candidates with minimum 80% attendance will be given a certificate. Also, based on recommendation of the examiners, we will give ‘Bala Vani’ certificates to a maximum of five students,” he added.
 
 Interested students can apply for the programme on srikrishnasweets.net. The programme will be inaugurated on August 13, and the classes will commence from the following week.
 
 
