BHUBANESWAR: Wednesday's Maoist attack on a police van that killed eight constables in Koraput district gave a jolt to police that is busy fine-tuning security arrangements for smooth conduct of the ensuing panchayat elections across the state, mostly in Maoist-hit pockets.

 Police have reasons to worry as Maoists have been threatening people in different districts to shun elections. In view of the Maoist menace, the state government recently announced not to hold rural elections in the cut-off regions of Chitrakonda in   district. Police got jitters when the Maoists allegedly kidnapped five poll officers in Chitrakonda and released them with warnings to the government. Talks were also doing the round that the Maoists sabotage led to the recent derailment of   that killed 41 passengers. 
 
 "We are worried over the recent developments, involving Maoists. Wednesday's landmine blast aggravated our worry. It will be a testing time for us to ensure hassle-free elections in Maoist-hit districts," said a police officer in Koraput. 
 
 Though Left-wing extremism plagues at least 18 districts of the total 30 in Odisha, Koraput and Malkangiri districts continue to be the Mao-strongholds for decades. "We suspect the Maoists want to regain their strength after Odisha police and greyhounds of   gunned down 30 Maoists in Malkangiri on October 24 last year. This was the biggest casualty on our side in the past few years. Last year, Maoists killed two security personnel," the officer said.
 
 DGP K B Singh said adequate security arrangements will be made in Maoist-hit districts for the rural polls, which are scheduled to be held in five phases between February 13 and 21. "We are alert to the Left-wing extremism situations in some districts. Peaceful conduct of the elections will be our top priority. We will intensify anti-Maoist combing operations," Singh said. 
 
 Police are also on their toes following tours of different BJD MLAs and ministers to Maoist-hit districts for election campaigns. "Many ministers and MLAs have been assigned as partys poll observers in several Maoist-affected districts. Hours before the landmine blast on Wednesday," energy minister   passed with his convoy on the same route. Das has been camping in Koraput to oversee the poll preparations. 
 
 The development assumed significance in the backdrop of suspected sabotage by Maoists in Hirakhand Express derailment on Saturday that killed 41 passengers and cancellation of ensuing Panchayat elections in cut-off areas in Malkangiri.
 
