DHARAMSHALA: Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama’s visit to   despite China’s intervention will infuse a new confidence among Tibetan activists in exile in India. The Chinese government has no business in Arunachal Pradesh which is an integral part of India, Tibetans said. Dalai Lama himself had recently said that people from China mainland love him and it was only hardliners who are opposing him.

 Visit of 14th Dalai Lama to Arunachal Pradesh holds significance for Buddhists as Tawang was the birthplace of 6th Dalai Lama. This will be Dalai Lama’s first visit to Arunachal after a gap of eight years. Earlier, he had travelled to the north-eastern state in 1983, 1993, 2003 and 2009.
 
 Tenzin Tsundue, a prominent Tibetan writer and activist who had faced arrests many times opposing visit of Chinese leadership to India, said that China has no business in Tawang. He said in 1914 the   had clearly stated that Tawang is the integral part of India. He said that China has recently overthrown the 200 year old   rule and they have no idea for Tawang and has no business here at all.
 
 Another Tibetan freedom movement activist, Lobsang Wangyal said this 3s China’s usual rhetoric in trying to undermine India’s influence and Dalai Lama’s popularity. He said India as a rising power will show with right attitude that it can no longer be intimidated.
 
 Office of Dalai Lama in Dharamshala said that the spiritual laureate will begin talks from Guwahati in Assam from April 1 and in Arunachal Pradesh teachings are schedule in five places. Schedule released by the office states that on April 4 talks would be at Lumla, from April 5-7 at Tawang, on April 10 at Dirang, on April 11 at Bomdilla, on April 12 at Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh.
 
 While the Chinese government is opposed to Dalai Lama, latter had said that people from mainland China come to see him every week and they ask him not to forget them ever. Dalai Lama had made it clear that he has no issues and is ready to go back if the government there makes changes in its policies.
 
 “Everybody knows Chinese are authoritarian. But, only the hardliners treat me as trouble maker not the people from main land. They use to come to me every fifteen days” Dalai Lama had said.
 
