CHENNAI: Many Locals Who Are   Are Not Too Taken Up With Either Of The Two Factions
Thursday saw a surge of activity at RK Nagar, the battle ground for the rival AIADMK factions that are claiming the   and are seeking to prove that they are her worthy heir. But many locals who are loyal supporters of the party of Jayalalithaa and MGR were not too taken up with either of the two factions.
 
 On the last day of filing nominations, hundreds thronged the busy constituency. After paying tributes at the memorials of former CMs, Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, the OPS faction supporters drove to R K Nagar and went on a procession from Maharani Theatre to file the nomination.
 
 Flanked by seniors, Madhusudhanan, the local strongman, filed his papers at 11.15 am, minutes after the EC granted them their symbol and group name.“We are here to oppose the family rule in AIADMK. Only OPS can unearth the mystery behind Amma's death,“ the senior leader told TOI.
 
 The office of the returning officer on Thiruvottiyur High Road near Jeeva Park turned into a fortress, with policemen barricading the area against traffic. Partymen in their white dhoties thronged to express support for their candidate, although many were peeved over the denial of the original party name and symbol.
 
 Donning a 'hat', Dinakaran was confident that his faction would sweep the poll. “People of Tamil Nadu know how a conspiracy was hatched to freeze our two-leaves symbol. After my win in R K Nagar, I will secure the symbol with the support of 1.5 crore cadres,“ he said.
 
 Some loyal supporters of Jayalalithaa were open with their criticism of the two factions. “We want our twin leaves back, we want our Amma back.These factions are an embarrassment to Amma and all the work she put in,“ said Ganapathy, who runs an electrical supply store at Tondiarpet.
 
 Slogans in praise of Amma were raised in the streets of RK Nagar with many women cadres singing praises of the deceased former chief minister, while a smattering of them confessed to being OPS sympathisers. “The party has been taken over by outsiders,“ exclaimed a 65-year-old Shanti, who had come with her daughter and granddaughter to get a glimpse of the nominees.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP nominee Gangai Amaran said the BJP will easily sail through. Modi government's initiatives are the talk of the town in R K Nagar too, he said. The noted musician said R K Nagar suffers from lack of basic infrastructure. “People recognize me as their own and the lotus will bloom here,“ he told TOI. Earlier, BJP national secretary H Raja and OPS group exchanged pleasantries, much to the surprise of supporters.
 
 The last day of nominations saw some drama too, with  ,  , arriving at the same time as Dinakaran. She had to wait for another 30 minutes on the road and later in the complex, until Dinakaran, Sasikala's nephew, stepped out. “People will give a favourable verdict,“ she said after filing papers. This time, her husband, Madhavan, was not to be seen around her. Madhavan made headlines when he announced that he would float a political party and decide on contesting  .
 
