CHANDIGARH: Arrangement of more funds, larger public interest and unique character of Chandigarh as UT were the few of the reasons cited by administration to justify their move to change the nomenclature of state highways to major district roads. The administration filed its affidavit in   and Haryana high court and stated that it has never been its intention to bypass the orders of the  . 

 The administration stated that this move is in larger public interest. The administration justified their move by stating that notification dated October 21, 2015, issued by the engineering department, all major arterial roads, V-1, V-2 and V-3 roads except national highway number 21 (passing through Chandigarh) were declared as “state highways” and the development and maintenance of the same was entrusted to the administration. It was then done to arrange more funds for the development and maintenance of these roads. Therefore by classifying these roads as state highways, the responsibility for maintenance and development of these roads was shifted to the administration. The grants for laying down and improvement of state highways was being received from the “Central Road Fund”.
 
 Chandigarh has no concept of state highway as it is a UT. The affidavit reads, “A state highway is a highway that is not a national highway but a highway that connects two cities or towns or districts within a state. Since Chandigarh itself is a UT/single city therefore the very basic concept of a ‘state highway’ cannot be made applicable to it.”
 
 The administration stated the government would suffer huge financial losses and also that new vends have to be opened from April 1 onwards. It was stated in the affidavit that 99 vends are functional in Chandigarh and at total revenue in the current financial year is Rs 202.55 crore. Out of total 99 liquor vends in the city approximately 84 vends were on roads that had been classified as ‘state highways’.
 
 The matter has been adjourned for March 23.
 
