NEW DELHI: The strained relations between senior lawyer and MP   and Union finance minister   were once again on display, this time in  , on Tuesday. 

 Jethmalani, during question hour, made a remark on the senior minister’s reply on black money which led to a commotion in the House as ruling party MPs and even ministers stood up and demanded an apology. Chairman Hamid Ansari later expunged Jethmalani’s remarks.
 
 The remarks from the 94-year-old veteran lawyer came few days after the two senior lawyers came face to face when Jaitley was cross-examined by   in the court while defending Arvind Kejriwal in a defamation case filed by the finance minister against the Delhi CM.
 
 The day was marked of unruly behaviour by the lawmakers in the Upper House, with both chairman Ansari and deputy chairman P J Kurien having to repeatedly remind them that “it was unbecoming of all of them”.
 
 With ministers joining BJP members to aggressively rebut Jethmalani’s charge that the government had been misleading the country on black money, Ansari chided them repeatedly: “You are ministers. You can’t do it (standing up and protesting).” There was a long heated exchange between BJP and opposition members after this, leading a visibly angry Ansari to ask everyone to behave.
 
 Earlier, during the zero hour, Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa faced the ire of Kurien when he repeatedly tussled with a BJP member on the upkeep of the historic Jalianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar. 
 
 Shwait Malik (BJP) had, through a zero hour mention, sought to highlight the poor upkeep of the Jalianwala Bagh that had on April 13, 1919 witnessed one of the worst pre-Independence massacres at the hands of British forces. The Congress member blamed BJP, which in alliance with Akali Dal was in power in the state for 10 years and in power at the Centre for last three years, for the poor upkeep.
 
 “You are not obeying me. I cannot listen to you,” an angry Kurien said. “There is some rule, some decorum (to be maintained),” he said. 
 
 
