LUCKNOW: The implementation of the Centre’s ambitious ‘power for all’ scheme in UP is going to be a mammoth exercise. An internal assessment by the   (UPPCL) shows that the agency would have to electrify twice the number of households it has already done so far. And all has to be done by 2019 — the deadline set by the Union power ministry. Naturally, the state government will also have to double the power generation to wheel in 24-hour supply to each and every household.

 According to records, the UPPCL at present has around 1.8 crore registered consumers in both urban and rural areas. A survey by the corporation shows that another 1.8 crore households, essentially in rural areas, are yet to get ‘officially’ connected, though a large number them get power illegally, leading to high degree of line loss.
 
 This is not all. The present power availability in UP is around 14,000 MW which includes around 5,000 MW from UP-owned power plants, around 6,000 MW from the central quota and the rest by trading, energy exchange and bilateral arrangement. This, energy department officials said, will have to be almost doubled to ensure 24x7   once the new households are added to the UPPCL list of consumers.
 
 The smooth power distribution will also have to be supported by a robust transmission network to evacuate power from the existing generating units and those proposed to be set up. Sources said that the corporation is likely to put forth the place the overall scenario before the chief minister soon. Yogi has asked energy department officials to complete the formalities to become a signatory to the Centre’s power for all scheme by April 15.
 
 UPPCL MD Vishal Chauhan said the state government would coordinate with the Centre for a speedy electrification and power distribution system in the leftover areas.
 
 Soon after BJP stormed to power, the Centre had sent a team of officials from the central electricity authority to get an exhaustive data bank about the overall power scenario in the state and how to get the ‘power for all’ scheme implemented by 2019.
 
 
