Nashik: The gold market here has been witnessing a steady growth over the years, adding shine to the city’s economy. 

 Nashik Jewellers Association members said the annual turnover of the gold market was currently pegged at around Rs 6,500 crore. “It’s a 30% growth since the last three years. During this period, over 20 new outlets, including some of reputed brands, have come up in the city,” said a senior association member on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 The association said Nashik is placed after Mumbai and Pune across the state in terms of gold sale and ahead of cities such as Nagpur and Aurangabad.
 
 There are around 2,500 small and large jewellery shops across the district, including 1,000 shops in the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) limits. The   area here alone has close to 250 jewellery shops.
 
 According to some of the jewellers there is a section of customers who are on a buying spree of the yellow metals during festivals and auspicious days of the year. 
 
 “Moreover although many other avenues of investments have opened up, there is a section of investors who still feel that investing on gold is a good proposition as it will yield good returns in the long term,” argued a association member. 
 
 Some jewellers said several pilgrims visit Trimbakeshwar to perform rituals such as Narayan Nagbali. Priests charge in the range of Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 for Narayan Nagbali rituals. Most of the devotees from the well-off section offer good quantity of gold to the priests for the rituals. 
 
 “This particular ritual entails that the devotees offer gold to the idol. There are many wealthy devotees who buy good amount of gold from the city to offer to the idol. This is also one of the factors that is ensuring a thriving market for the yellow metal,” added a jeweller. 
 
 The association members, however, conceded that the gold business was badly affected for almost three months after demonetisation because of an inadequate cash flow from November to January. But gold business has now started showing positive signs for the past one month.
 
 Rajendra Odhekar, immediate past president of the Nashik Jewellers Association, told TOI, “After a setback because of the demonetisation, the gold business is becoming normal. The market has improved up to 80% in past three months. The cash flow has improved and it’s a major relief for the market.” 
 
 In a month, gold prices have declined by 2.58% in a month. The prices were recorded at Rs 29,050 for 10 gm on Thursday as against Rs 29,800 for the same amount on February 9. On November 8, the gold price was recorded at Rs 30,500 per 10 gm and it declined to Rs 28,800 per 10 gm on December 5 because of the demonetisation drive. 
 
 In the meantime, the city jewellers had good business on the auspicious occasion of Gurupushyamrut on Thursday. According to sources, the city jewellers recorded close to Rs 40 crore business on the occasion of Gurupushyamrut, which is considered an auspicious day for buying gold. 
 
 Pramod Kulthe, president of the   said, “This time, the response was not so good due to March end. Moreover, gold prices have declined by Rs 800 per 10 gm in the past month. This sends wrong message among consumers. They think gold prices will decline more. As a result, they buy gold on the auspicious occasion, but in low quantity.” 
 
 India's drive to bring transparency to bullion trading, along with the rise of branded gold jewellery, could help major retailers raise their share of the world’s second-biggest gold market to 40% by 2020, the   (WGC) had said.
 
 Many of India’s 400,000 jewellers had traditionally sold gold in cash transactions, with small retailers often skipping written documentation in an attempt to avoid paying taxes while people with wealth not recorded in accounting books preferred to buy without invoices or receipts.
 
 More than 70% of the country’s gold sales had been in cash till the demonetisation drive. In its report, the WGC had noted that the government’s move to charge lower duty on imports of dore — a semi-pure alloy made by miners — than on refined bullion had boosted refining capacity in India to 1,450 tonnes per annum.
 
 
