NEW DELHI: Holding a folder in her hands, Kavita Singh from Rohini waited patiently for her turn to submit her five-page long biodata at Delhi   chief Manoj Tiwari’s office on Wednesday. Singh, who claims to have been associated with the party since 2005 and has worked in various capacities at the mandal level, is seeking a ticket from Rohini 34 D.

 Like Singh, thousands of ticket aspirants have been thronging Tiwari’s official residence at North Avenue and Delhi BJP office on Pant Marg since Tuesday afternoon. The party’s decision to give a chance to fresh faces in the civic polls has given thousands of party workers hope.
 
 At Tiwari’s residence, some party workers came with their supporters and family members in tow. They were carrying sweets and fruit baskets in hope of getting a chance to meet the state unit chief. “I wanted to thank him for taking this step to promote young people but I couldn’t meet him,” said Ashish, a party worker from Mayur Vihar, who came with a box of sweets. 
 
 The road outside Delhi BJP headquarters was choked with cars. A large number of people who have applied are working at the mandal, lowest in the party hierarchy, or district level.
 
 Welcoming the decision, Ranjeet Singh, president of   of a district, said, “Finally, people working at the grassroot level will get a chance to contest municipal polls. It is our right to ask for a ticket and up to the party to give or not.” He was seeking a ticket from Dwarka.
 
 Ignoring the party’s pitch for fresh and young faces, Harpal Singh Tomar (60), who claims to be a former mandal president from Rohini, too turned up to argue his case. 
 
 “I have never contested an election. They need new people who can work. Age doesn’t matter,” he said.
 
 Till Wednesday evening, the party had received 8,487 biodatas for the 272 seats.
 
 Many are happy that sitting   will not get a chance. “It is we who work tirelessly at the ground level. But we never got a chance as councillors were repeated,” said Babli Nayak, who is seeking a ticket from Rohtas Nagar.
 
 She had come with her niece, Savita Nayak, who has been working with her for the past few months. 
 
 Savita (30), a former media professional, says that she had contested in 2012 on an NCP ticket from Kasabpura. She is now seeking a ticket from Ram Nagar.
 
 
