Nagpur: A day before the deadline for completing the Mumbai University (MU) exam work, Dhanwate National College (DNC) principal Baban Taywade on Sunday made a U-turn saying his institute was never entrusted with checking two lakh answersheets. Till Sunday evening, only around 3,000 answersheets could be processed as the work started on July 25, five days late from the schedule.

 The move was expected to bolster Nagpur University’s image (NU) across the state as it was preferred by MU over other varsities. But, it now seems to have backfired with Taywade’s U-turn and Vice chancellor SP Kane blaming the MU.
 
 Taywade had earlier told TOI that the valuers would need at least two weeks to evaluate all the two lakh commerce answersheets. On Sunday he said, “We are only providing the infrastructure. We weren’t given any fixed numbers. The system is slow as answersheets are being evaluated simultaneously at Nagpur and Mumbai online.”
 
 VC SP Kane defended the Nagpur University saying we are not at all at fault since the Mumbai University officials failed to optimally utilize the service offered to them.
 
 He also said that there was no fixed job but it was assumed that around 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh answer sheets would be done between July 21 and July 31. “We had given a list of 275 valuers. It was expected that at least 200 would be appointed and each would check 50 papers. By this estimate, 10,000 answer sheets would have got evaluated per day and 1 lakh or more in 10 days,” Kane said.
 
 The plans couldn’t be executed as a chain of problems slowed down the process. According to Kane, Mumbai University’s system was too slow, which led to only 1 answersheet being checked in 50 minutes.
 
 Both, Kane and Taywade said the evaluation would be done as much as possible but ruled out reaching the 2 lakh mark.
 
 Experts slammed the NU for making a mess by burdening itself with additional work.
 
 Academician Ved Prakash Mishra raised questions on the secrecy being maintained in the entire affair. 
 
 “Whether it is a task undertaken by the Nagpur University or SP Kane or Baban Taywade or the latter on behalf of Kane? Why have they not made the official validity of the task public? I am worried at the dispensation of the work. I am not sure if they are upholding the prescribed norms,” Mishra said.
 
 He added that there are several other unanswered questions. “Are the answer books being valued by eligible valuers. Who is ensuring that an English answersheets is being evaluated by an English valuer?,” he asked.
 
 Mishra said both the vice chancellors must answer these questions. “No public servant is entitled to play hide and seek,” he said.
 
 
