Ghaziabad: The inter-state border at   will look very different in the near future with the National Highways Authority of India ( ) rolling out a comprehensive decongestion plan as part of the widening of   to 14 lanes. 

 Central to that plan is a new flyover that will come up over UP Gate, as an extension of the existing Ghazipur flyover. This new flyover will end on the highway before the bridge over the Hindon canal in Indirapuram.
 
 The makeover of the UP Gate area has also factored in ramps for the elevated road to Raj Nagar Extension that the   Development Authority (GDA) is building. The elevated road is being built perpendicular to NH-24 as a single corridor with a median verge, along the Hindon canal in Indirapuram. But before it merges with the highway, the GDA has decided to bifurcate the road and build two ramps. One ramp will pass under the NH-24 bridge on the Hindon canal and marge with the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the highway. The other ramp — meant for traffic headed for Raj Nagar Extension and Kanawani — will terminate on the opposite side of NH-24, on the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway. 
 
 The integrated plan has been formulated by GDA and NHAI. The new 12-lane flyover that will be built on NH-24 is part of the first package of the widening project, which has already started and has a completion target of 910 days.
 
 NHAI (project director) in Ghaziabad RB Singh told TOI, “Construction work on the flyover will commence as soon as additional lanes on either sides of the highway are ready to use. This will allow us to devise a traffic plan so that vehicles are diverted through the new lanes leaving the stretch of NH-24 free for construction work. There is no separate budget for the flyover and its cost will be met from the sum allocated by the ministry of road transport and highways for the first section of the NH-24 widening project. The plan to merge the elevated road with NH-24 has been chalked out with GDA.”
 
 The GDA, meanwhile, is undertaking construction work at a rapid pace on the last leg of the 10.3km elevated road project. “The elevated road will help divert traffic by allowing signal-free rides both from and to Raj Nagar Extension. The six-lane elevated flyway is being built on 228 pillars. The road will be ready for use by the latter half of this year,” GDA executive engineer Chakresh Jain said.
 
 
