GURGAON: It's that time of the year when the cricket fraternity in India warms up for the   season. The buzz - encapsulating the optimism, hope and revitalized ambitions within the franchises - takes over. But   seems untouched by it all.

 Away from all the hype, Dravid was on Thursday quietly observing the young talent at the Delhi Daredevil academy next to the Delhi-Haryana border. A good eight days ahead of the Dardevils' first game of the season, Dravid is already looking for options which could compensate for the absence of JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock - their premier players. Plus, there is a question mark over  ' hamstring as well.
 
 Before he could get going with the Daredevils' first team, the strategies and combinations have gone for a toss. So, Dravid could be in for his first real challenge since he got into coaching or mentoring DD, India U-19 and India 'A' teams in July 2015.
 
 "It's hard when you miss players like JP and Quinney, especially when it happens just before the season. Had they been ruled out before the auctions, we could have looked for alternatives," Dravid said, his speech betraying concern. De Kock chose to play the third Test against New Zealand this week with an injured finger and Duminy opted out citing personal reasons.
 
 "We had built him (de Kock) up for this season to be what he has become now. But this is how life is and you cannot do much about it," he said, and that is how Dravid operates -methodical with an eye on the future.
 
 This is the point when he has the chance to test the work he has put in with the boys he has nurtured over the past 21 months in his capacity as the India U-19 and India 'A' coach. So there is hope and Dravid will assert that. This is an opportunity for the domestic talent to come to the fore. "We have a lot of these players from last year and hopefully they have grown. All these guys have played a full season of domestic cricket and that's why we kept a two-year horizon in mind, keeping the fact that they would come back as better players," he stated.
 
 Dravid dropped the names of  , Sanju Samson, Shreyas Iyer and Aditya Tare. But he mentioned   as a case study. "A guy like Rishabh Pant, he has played four-day matches, a T20 tournament and then the one-day tournament. We know he will not succeed every day but we have to let him play his game. Hopefully, he has learned."
 
 Handling a team which is thin on international experience, gives Kagiso Rabada, Carlos Brathwaite and Sam Billings crucial roles to play. "It's about giving them clarity as in what is their role in the team. What is expected of them, how we expect them to practice. It's more about creating the right environment in the IPL, simplifying things, getting your tactics right and balancing your squads," said, keeping it simple.
 
 Daredevils are yet to name the replacements for their ruled-out players. No guesses, they will be cracking their brains to find the suitable ones. But Dravid prefers to rely on hope. "I hope Carlos (Brathwaite) comes back an improved player. Billings had the experience of last year with us and I hope he feeds off it." Dravid's statement summed it all up. 
 
 
