AHMEDABAD: A team of state police’s CID (crime) arrested a key accused in a murder case of 2007. Investigators, however, said they are yet to unravel the full mystery of the case.

 Sameer Sangaliya alias Rahul, 19, was found dead on July 16, 2007 at an estate on the outskirts of Umargam (Umbergaon), a town on the   border in Valsad district. Subsequent police investigation in the case had a number of loose ends due to which the probe was conducted again by a DSP level officer after which 12 persons, including medical and police officials, were apprehended. However, the sessions judge asked for a re-investigation of the case by CID.
 
 Ashish Bhatia, ADGP, CID (crime) told media on Friday that a key accused in the case — Deepak Rathod alias Hero, 37, a resident of Yogeshwarnagar, Guptanagar, Vasna — was identified and arrested by the CID team in connection with the case. Police have got seven day remand for him.
 
 Investigators said the discovery was made by a special team formed on the direction of Gujarat high court to probe the murder. The team consists of J R Mothaliya, DIG (railways); P P Pirojiya, DSP; R M Patel, sub-inspector; and five constables.
 
 “The narco test of two accused,   and  , siblings and relatives of prime accused Vijay Agarwal, revealed the Hero’s name. It took us some time to identify the person and locate him. He was apprehended from his residence by the team. It is suspected that his name was not revealed so far by the accused because his investigation may throw some new light,” said an investigator.
 
 Sources said the murder took place after Sameer had an altercation with Vijay and his friend Deepak. The duo had then assaulted Sameer with an iron rod and killed him. They tried to present the case as one of a missing person but eventually Sameer’s body was found.
 
 The team has 70 points of investigation on which the probe is going on. “Several points under consideration have been examined and re-examined. It was only after a panel investigation that an iron bar, found on construction sites, was established as the murder weapon,” said an official.
 
 
