The adage ‘When the going gets tough, the tough get going’ has taken a new meaning in Hyderabad ’cos going from one place to another has gotten so much more tougher now. Yes, we are talking about the  . But as the adage suggests, the strong will continue, even if fuelled by  . From cab drivers asking their passengers to lock the doors to protect them from unruly mobs of strikers to people pretending to be in a private cab although they hailed one using the app, city folks are doing everything it takes to drive around the obstacles, literally! 

 
 
 It sure took Hyderabadis some time to deal with the shock of not having cabs to rely on, what with the protest kicking off on the most crucial day of the year — New Year’s Eve. Trouble started early on Saturday as people were forcefully stopped and thrown out of the cabs that were plying. Deeksha Shankar, who works for an advertising firm, recalls the horror she went through near Somajiguda: “A group of guys surrounded my ‘pool’ cab two minutes into my trip and forced the driver to end the trip. They threatened him, tried to take his car keys and the device, and took pictures of him and his vehicle. They said: ‘How can you run your cab when there’s a strike? It’s not allowed. We won’t allow it’. They continued to threaten the driver, so my pool match and I just got out and took autos.” since the strike has been called by external unions, the cab companies have been sending out reassuring messages promising that they will continue service and have been asking clients to be patient through the party weekend. And Hyderabadis on their part, are being more than cooperative with the cabbies.
 
 
 
 In an interesting turn of events, the whole ordeal of the strike seems to have helped strike a chord between hapless drivers and stranded passengers. Sharing her experience, Kirthi Abburi, a regular cab user, says, “When I booked a cab, the driver called me to tell me to step out on to the road only after he reaches there, so that no one notices. It all sounded so sneaky. Once I got in the cab, he told me ‘If someone stops us enroute please tell them that this is an office cab that you booked privately. This genius had it all worked out!” (laughs)
 “Lock your doors” is another caution that cabbies are throwing at their passengers. Shashi, a cab driver explains: “They (protesters) simply barge in and drag you out sometimes, so I tell my passengers that it’s better to be safe.” While they are protective about their passengers, sometimes ‘fake bookings’ are landing these poor cabbies in trouble. “Some of those who are on strike are booking cabs to lure the drivers who not participating in the strike. When we accept booking and land up at the location, they simply cancel the booking and threaten us. Most of these fake bookings come with the ‘cash payment option’. So now, I only accept bookings with card payment, because only legit customers choose online payments,” explains Shashi.
 
 
 While that cabbies are doing their bit, there are other problems that the commuters are trying to negotiate at their end — the endless wait to find a cab and then, the mind-boggling surge charges that they are forced to pay. Distances as short as a kilometre cost `150, as minimum fare is `50 and the surge is three times the original fare. Meanwhile, those travelling from Banjara Hills to Secunderabad have to cough up `600, as opposed to the usual average of around `150. 
 What’s more, you aren’t even assured a ride soon enough. Take for instance, Madhukar Allu who tried booking a cab from Banjara Hills but found a vehicle only in  . He then waited two hours only to deal with a hesitant driver. “Now this cab driver too was reluctant to travel a distance of 20 kms out of fear of those on strike. So once he accepted my booking I saved the number and cancelled the trip. I wasn’t charged a cancellation fee because the cab was still 15 minutes away. I spoke to the driver himself and fixed a fare both of us agreed upon. It was way lesser than the surcharge fare and we were safe from the strike as I could tell anyone that I booked a private cab and not via the app,” he says.
 
