WASHINGTON: The Belgian government announces a programme in Kolkata to adopt and raise poor Indian children in Belgium. Thousands of poverty-stricken Indians rush to the Belgian consulate to give up their children. Belgium cancels the programme.

 An Indian demagogue rallies the people and leads an armada of 800,000 impoverished Indians to France. Dithering French politicians and bureaucrats fight among themselves whether to repel the Indian ships or allow them in.
 
 The military is finally ordered to use force amid protests by left-wing radicals who want to welcome them, but it is too late. Indians swarm ashore. It is a signal for poor, coloured people everywhere to overrun Western civilisation.
 
 Chinese pour into Russia, the queen of England is forced to marry her son to a Pakistani woman, and black families invade the official mansion of the New York Mayor. Everywhere, the white folks are overrun or under siege. The one holdout is Switzerland, but it also capitulates in the end under international pressure, under threat of being declared a rogue state.
 
 Even when it was first published in 1973, Jean Raspail's “Camp of the Saints“, evoked revulsion in many quarters for its ugly characterisation of “shit-eating“ Indians, with many critics deploring its racist undertones. It was called “xenophobic and paranoid“, a “bilious tirade“.
 
 But the English translation of the dystopian French novel has been a sleeper hit among white supremacists and a cult favourite of the far right in the United States, gaining increasing following in recent years.
 
 Among its fans, it has now come to light, is Steve  , President  's strategic adviser, who is credited with influencing the views on immigration of a man who has twice married immigrants.
 
 A story first reported in The Huffington Post cites Bannon approvingly referring to “Camp of the Saints“ several times over the past two years.
 
 In fact, in one radio intervi ew, Bannon discusses the book with the now attorney general Jeff Sessions, as they talk about how immigration policies are hurting American job prospects. “It's been almost a Camp of the Saints-type invasion into Central and then Western and Northern Europe,“ Bannon says.
 
 In other interviews, Bannon talks about the invasion of a billion immigrants to the western world, worrying about its impact on not just the US and European economy but on the western way of life itself.
 
 The remarks, many of them published and broadcast on Breitbart and affiliated right-wing media sites, segue into a comment that is particularly worrying for Indians and Indian-Americans. In one conversation with Trump aired on Sirius radio, Bannon expresses concern at “two-thirds or three-quarters of the CEOs in Silicon Valley (being) from South Asia or from Asia.“
 
 When Trump demurs about the importance of retaining foreign talent in the US, Bannon responds, “A country is more than an economy . We're a civic society.“
 
 “Camp of the Saints“ itself has many passages that will be deeply offensive to many Indians -including describing a protagonist as a “turd-eater“ -and will make Katherine Mayo's Mother India read like a holy scripture. One of the milder descriptions is the rush to the Belgian consulate.
 
 “And so, there they were, thousands of wretched creatures, hoping, crowding against the consulate gates, like the piles of fruit a crafty merchant heaps on his stand, afraid it might spoil: the best ones up front, all shiny and tempting; the next best right behind, still in plain sight, and not too bad if you don't look too close; then the ones barely visible, the damaged ones, starting to rot, all wormy inside, or turned so you can't see the mold...Milling about, way back in the crowd, the women with the monsters, the horrors that no one would take off their hands.“
 
