MUMBAI: The 2,100 million litres of human waste dumped daily into the sea by the   has cost the beaches around the city the tourism industry.

 Tourism business at the beaches of Dahanu, Bordi, Alibaug and Harihareshwar, which flourished in the 1980s, has plummeted over the past two decades. Today, tourists flock further south, to the cleaner Ganpatipule, Tarkarli and beyond, say MTDC sources.
 
 MTDC has been forced to shut its resort at Bordi as tourists stopped visiting, complaining of turbid waters. Forest reservation is the other reason behind the closure.
 
 Similarly, water pollution has also seen fishing activities shift beyond 12-20 nautical miles, making fish stock more expensive for Mumbaikars. The levels of biological oxygen demand (BOD), the amount of dissolved oxygen needed by organisms to break down organic material in water, and total suspended solids (TSS), particles suspended in water which cannot pass thro ugh a filter, in the sea off the coast are five to 10 times higher than in developed countries. The coast is therefore highly polluted and turbid.
 
 The quality of seawater around Mumbai is worsening on all parameters because sewage discharge standards are deteriorating. Senior BMC officials said according to   regulations, Bandra and Colaba out falls release diluted sewage, after primary treatment, with 100 milligram per litre of water of BOD and100 TSS, against the maximum limit of 5 and10, respectively. “At Malad, the level is higher than 100 as untreated sewage goes directly into the sea. The BMC's projects to give tertiary treatment to sewage are stuck as the government of india is yet to finalize the draft standards of 10 BOD and 20 TSS for coastal cities and 5 and 10 for inland cities. The BMC's new sewage treatment plants will get 510 standard. Once the government finalizes the standards, work orders will be issued for new plants, which will eventually be ready within five years,“ the officials said.
 
 Citing turbidity of waters along Mumbai-Raigad and Thane coast, Science and Technology Park Institute, Pune, had suggested a beach site at Tondavali and   in Sindhudurg--almost 600km from Mumbai--for a fourth-generation undersea aquarium project called  .The institute said only those sites have transparent waters required for the project, besides quality corals and rich aquatic life.
 
 Experts at the institute say waste from the sewage gets settled along the beaches between Raigad and Dahanu because the sea surface is shallow and the water turns turbid easily in case of turbulence. Whereas down south, beyond  , the depth of the water helps in keeping the surface water clean, said experts. “The depth in the sea goes up as we go down south.“
 
 Asenior sewage treatment expert associated with BMC said the main problem was collecting all the sewage from open drains by streamlining sewers. “Once we direct the entire sewage of the city to treatment plants and ensure zero leakage till the sea or creeks, 90% of the job is done. Then, enhancing the treatment is a formality.“
 
