Deepika.Burli  Bengaluru: Pankaj Upadhyay (name changed), a city-based techie, was aghast when he found a stone instead of a smart phone in the packet sent to him by an e-tailer a year ago. Despite filing a case with the consumer court immediately, he is still awaiting a fair compensation. Increased pendency of cases has been delaying justice to many consumers like Pankaj. However, the first ever Online Consumer Mediation Centre (OCMC) set up by the Consumer Law and Practice at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, is giving hope to many such citizens. In the pilot phase, it is dealing with complaints pertaining to e-commerce sector. The aim is to improve consumers’ access to dispute resolutions, avoid burdening of consumer courts and improve consumer-business relationships. The centre ---a Rs 1-crore project funded by the ministry of Consumer Affairs---is headed by Prof Ashok R Patil, chair professor, Consumer Law and Practice. It was inaugurated in December 2016. According to a report, 74.9% of rural consumers are not aware about the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, as against 56.3% of urban consumers. “About 78% of respondents to the State of the Indian Consumer 2012 survey conducted by CUTS International rated the grievance redressal process as ‘difficult’. Major limitations cited by consumer dispute redressal forums are frequent adjournments sought by advocates or parties, lack of adequate administrative staff and educational status of complainants among others,” said Patil.  To facilitate speedy resolution of consumer conflicts, the centre has begun a two-year pilot programme with disputes filed against e-commerce companies. The centre runs with the motto – “Anytime Anywhere Dispute Resolution”. “India’s retail market is expected to double to US $1 trillion by 2020 from US $600 billion in 2015, driven by income growth, urbanization and attitudinal shifts. While the overall retail market is expected to grow at 12% per annum, modern trade would expand twice as fast at 20% per annum and traditional trade at 10% ,” said Patil. The Consumer Protection Bill, 2015 mentions about establishment of mediation cells across the country. “OCMC is developing technology and a third-party infrastructure that ensures confidentiality and privacy at every stage. A website is being designed to provide a user-friendly, transparent and secure online mediation process,” he said. Referring to cases already filed with the centre, Patil said the consumers are more informed and need quick justice. On the other hand, companies do not want to be challenged in courts mainly because of litigation costs. “An online platform for a quick settlement is seen favourable for both. It’s not easy to bring them to a settlement mainly because consumers sometimes are emotionally hurt and want some kind of sanctions imposed on e-commerce companies. But mediation is a facilitated settlement which would result in a win-win situation while relationships are preserved. Public can benefit both at pre-litigation and pendency stage. It is a completely voluntary process and consumers need not file a case before courts or forums prior to filing a complaint with OCMC,” Patil added. He said the ministry of Consumer Affairs has written to all e-commerce companies and industry associations in India directing them to participate in the settlement process at OCMC.  With the website having received over 45,000 hits from across the world, Prof Patil, who is also a member of the Central Consumer Protection Council, is hopeful that this new approach to consumer disputes will reach far and beyond in a few years. 