Can you imagine a   movie without songs? Well no one can!

  The Badshah of Bollywood, who initially felt there's no use of music in films, recently confessed that his "entire career" is made up of "good music and memorable songs."
 
  "I am from Delhi, with a theatre background. When I started my career, I didn't know the value of music. I felt that I don't need music in my movies. Back then, my mindset was like that. After twelve years, now I realize that my entire career is made up of good music and memorable songs. Every song which has featured me, either a romantic or a dance number, is very beautiful," he said, while addressing the media in a press conference here, for his upcoming film ' .'
 
  He added, "Then I understood that music holds a great importance in our country. In every nook and corner of our country, music plays pivotal role. Some days back I was telling Imtiaz (Ali) that a day will never come in our industry when there will be no song in our films."
 
  Khan, who was earlier in the day seen riding a tractor on the green fields of   in a promotional spree, also expressed his fondness for Punjabi beats and music.
 
  Further speaking about 'Jab Harry Met Sejal,' the 'Dilwale' actor said that the film is about a love story which says, ' to love and to not let go of your love'.
 
  "In today's generation, even I have two teenaged kids, I believe that we should taught two major things to our generation that; live your life according to your wish but never forget your roots, country's value and classical culture. And we have talked about these values in our movie; this movie is not about any message like 'Chak De! India' or 'Swades,' this movie is about a love story. The only message is to love and to not let go of your love," he said.
 
  The 51-year-old actor, further during the press con, expressed his condolences over the recent devastating attack on the Amaranth pilgrims, saying, "The attack on the pilgrims of the   is very condemnable and sad. And I have tweeted about the incident as well."
 
  Adding, "I believe where there is faith there is bravery. I believe that our faith in God and in religion is a result of immense courage. Terrorism or any kind of evil is nothing in front of our courage and belief."
 
  On the work front, SRK's 'Jab Harry Met Sejal,' directed by  , also stars  .
 
  This is the third collaboration of SRK and Anushka after 'Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi' and 'Jab Tak Hai Jaan.'
 
  'Jab Harry met Sejal' is all set to hit the theatres on August 4.
 
