MUMBAI: A   building condition survey report for J N   building in May 2017 rated it as one with only a “slight’’ degree of damage. The survey is being conducted on 250 buildings between   and CSMT along the underground Metro Line 3’s alignment. The heritage Petit Institute is one of them. The nearest distance from edge of the building to the edges of station boundary is about 2m, it said.

 So far, about 70% of these buildings have been surveyed, said an official. Some building owners were barring permission for the survey and it is still under progress. 
 
 A joint venture of L&T and  , which was awarded the contract to design and build the underground section from Cuffe Parade to CST had entrusted a subcontractor Encardio-rite   to carry out the survey of structures falling in the potential zone of influence of construction. It had visited the Petit building in Fort in February and March for the Hutatma Chowk station survey.
 
 The report classifies buildings in six categories ranging for varying ‘degree of damage’. It ranges from negligible–damage category ‘0’ to ‘very severe’ damage category ‘5’. Petit was graded as a fairly well-maintained building in category ‘2’. It described the building as having three ‘moderate non-structural cracks’ , 31 ‘minor cracks less than 3mm wide’ and negligible damage with 181 hairline cracks and general view. 
 
 The September 4 report by the Metro 3 general consultants of the fallen finial, however, suggested that the “ageing, wear and tear coupled with heavy stormy wind, swinging tree branch and torrential rain” may have caused the fall.
 
 Its ground plus mezzanine floor has IDFC bank and the first floor, the library and second floor the reading hall. There were no bore wells, but there was one underground water tank in the building. It has a Cantilever Balcony.
 
 It said ‘no architectural appearances were noticed in the building’ but the trustees said that its special architectural features with stain glass windows find no mention in the report.
 
 
