NEW DELHI: “Zara dekh ke udaao”. This was the government’s warning this   – not to people flying kites around airports, but to pilots flying in and out of them!

 The   (AAI) has issued a notice to airmen (Notam) for Ahmedabad airport warning pilots about the “kite flying in day and lighted kite flying in night in and around the airfield due to Uttarayan festival. Pilots to exercise caution during arrival and departure.” The Notam is valid from last Friday to Monday (Jan 16).
 
 While the Notam (A0074/17) is for Ahmedabad, airline pilots say they have to be on the lookout for kites while flying in and out of several airports in western India like Indore, Vadodara, Surat, Udaipur and even Mumbai this time of the year. 
 
 “Issuing such a warning to be on the lookout for kite flying around airports is meaningless, as there is precious little that a pilot can do,” said a senior pilot of commander rank.
 
 “Given the size of the kites and the speed of aircraft, how can a pilot avoid them? Local ground authorities must curb kite flying around airports instead of telling us to watch out,” he added.
 
 How much risk does a kite pose to an aircraft? 
 
 “If it is a small paper kite, then there is not much of an issue. But I have seen huge kites being flown with ropes, and if such an object gets caught in the engine, there can be damage to the equipment. It is similar to bird hits,” said another senior pilot of the rank of commander.
 
 “With the aircraft moving at high speed, the impact of a collision with a heavy bird or big kite can be significant,” added the airman who heads the operations of a big airline.
 
 “Issuing such Notams is just passing the buck so that in case,  , something goes wrong due to this, they can always say we warned in advance,” said a pilot.
 
 Airport operators, on their part, say they are quite helpless. 
 
 “Whether it is the issue of dumping garbage, or of flying kites near airports, we can only tell the local police and municipality to curb these activities. But we have had little luck on both these fronts,” said an airport operator on condition of anonymity.
 
 Airport operators in cities like Mumbai and Bhubaneswar have in the past sought police help to curb flying kites and helium balloons near airports. Kite flying peaks around   (celebrated as Uttarayan in Gujarat), Independence Day and Raksha Bandhan in several parts of India. “Sometimes we report to the air traffic control if a big kite, drone or helium balloon comes in our path so that other flights don’t face the same issue,” said a pilot.
 
 
