LUDHIANA: A day after the city police claimed to have solved the sensational killing of a 9-year-old boy in Dugri with the arrest of a teenager, the accused’s family and neighbours raised questions on cops’ theory. The headless body of victim  , cut into six pieces, was recovered from a vacant plot in the area on Wednesday.

 Countering the police version that the teenager had craving for raw human flesh and thus killed kid and chopped his body, family and other residents of the area claimed that he could not have committed such a heinous crime alone as it would have been nearly impossible for him to cut the body like this. 
 
 TOI team visited the crime spot, met with the families of the victim and accused both, along with nearby residents, on Saturday. Whereas the family of deceased is still clueless about the motive of crime, family of accused alleged that cops were not investigating the case properly.
 
 Raising suspicion over the role of a chicken stall owner, who is cousin of the deceased and runs a shop nearby, teenager’s family members claimed that he had asked the accused to bring Deepu to his residence and had even offered him Rs 20,000 for it.
 
 Speaking to TOI, elder brother of the accused, claimed, “Police forced my brother to confess to have committed the murder. He has given statement to the police that the chicken stall owner had asked him to bring Deepu. He has not killed him. But police has not arrested him yet.” Denying that the teenager had any craving to eat raw flesh, he added, “These are false allegations against my brother. He has never eaten raw flesh.”
 
 Elder sister of accused, took TOI team inside their one-room house and adjoining bathroom, where, according to police, the teenager chopped Deepu into pieces. One person alone can barely move freely inside the structure, she pointed out.
 
 A neighbour,  , said, “We all are in shock as it is hard for us to believe that the teenager can commit such a crime. We have seen that boy; he has never hit even a stray dog. We all strongly believe that he alone cannot do this.”
 
 Owner of the migrants’ quarters where Deepu’s family lives, Pardeep Singh said, “We have never seen Deepu going out of the quarter. He was always cheerful. I know accused too and it is hard to believe that he is a cannibal. He cannot be the mastermind of this crime.”
 
 Deepu’s mother, Sangeeta, was sitting quietly outside her room, with her two children Kajal, 1, and Rahul, 3. She said, “I am clueless why my boy has been killed. He did not ever go outside the compound. He would usually play around and take care of his young siblings.”
 
 “Deepu was watching television with his siblings. His food was in plate when he (accused) came and took him along. When I came back plate was on bed and television was on,” she said. 
 
 When contacted, additional DCP-II   said, “In first   footage, the chicken stall owner is seen going behind Deepu and the accused. But he was not seen in the CCTV footage installed near the crime spot. The case is not closed yet and we are still investigating. If needed we can detain and question the relative too.”
 
 “Already, we have three strong evidence against the teenager. We have CCTV footage in which accused is going with the victim and we have recovered the weapon that was buried inside accused’s house. We also have also recovered similar wheat sacks from the house in which he carried Deepu’s body,” Sharma added.
 
 
