
 
  I first sawShahdat Ali five minutes before I walked up to speak to him. He looked self-important enough, strutting around in his white kurta, saffron waistcoat and turned-around heavy wristwatch. “Dekh, kidher se chidiya udke ayi hain (Check out those birds that have flown in from somewhere),” he said aloud to a bunch of youngsters after he had given us a swivelling stare. The young men lolling about at the entrance of the  , once upon a time the Anglo-Islamia College, in   town didn’t give him, local BJP secretary – or us – much importance.
  
  Crossing a badminton court framed by fat pink roses, the overwhelmingly visible Muslim voters were lined up, disappearing into the ground floor classrooms and coming out again as if out of a dargah. Most of the women were in their finest black, not plain Jane burqas, but either dotted with sequins or black brocades. A group of young women, with only their excited eyes showing, came out. “Kamal pein button dabana,” (Press the button on the lotus) one of them said. Titters followed as if they had just come out of the nearby Brij UFO Digital Cinema discussing an SRK scene.
  
  Unlike them, Ali was a serious man. On asking him how things are panning out for his party in Muzaffarnagar, he takes on the neta pose – hands locked behind his kurta and looking down on the ground before speaking – and says, “BJP, hundred per cent. People understand that for development to come here, someone has to have a direct connection with the Modi government.” A couple of youngsters suddenly popped up beside him and one of them tells me, “Arey, he’s our bade bhai (big brother). Whatever he says, we’ll listen. But here, cycle [Samajwadi Party electoral symbol] is going to win!”
  
  Ali, moderately unruff led, explains how most Muslims in Muzaffarnagar will indeed vote for the  , leaving Mayawati’s BSP in the lurch. But could he explain why none of the major parties has selected a Muslim candidate in a town that has a 41.39% Muslim population going by the 2011 census? “That you will have to ask high command,” he says meaningfully. Ali then realises that I wasn’t only asking him about his party, so he adds, “Well, there hasn’t been anyone from the Muslim community who has stood out for this election.”
  
  One of the youngsters whizzes by again, laughing, “Not even you Shadat-bhai? Why, you should have been a candidate!” Our little chat over, Ali folds his fingers and says a very Ramand Sagar-infused, ‘Namashkar.’
  
  
 
  The skyline above the dusty ground outside the Islamia Degree College tells its own story. On the left are facades of open-bricked buildings, on top of each roof flags fluttering as if it is mandatory to flutter every election day. I spot two Congress flags near a multitude of   ones. A giant washed-out green spaceship of a water tank takes up a large part of the sky to the left of a green-and-white domed mosque with two minarets that hold two giant --and, as of now, silent – loudspeakers. Then suddenly, you catch left of the spaceship-watertank a rebellious voice: a deep blue BSP flag. To see an elephant flutter against Muzaffarnagar's sky blue sky is both a strange and wondrous sight.
  
  
 
  Dharampal Purbia and his platoon are tucking in dal and roti by the dozen at Bajrang Dhaba. They are being despatched for 'chunao duty' to Hardwar when Uttarakhand joins UP for one day on February 15 to play the polls. Purbia and his policemen are part of five platoons from Udaipur in Rajasthan. So it's no wonder that they are emptying out the dabha on the National Highway 58.
  
  A large man, he is impressive not only by the way his juniors treat him with cameraderie, but also by the way 'Commander- saab' manages to never wet his thick moustache each time he pushed in a sound bite of daaldrenched roti. His first election duty was during the 1984   elections, less than two months after  's assassination. “That time they were killing Sikhs,” he says, trying to make the simultaneous point that he wears enough poll duty battlescars as well as that today's 'communally-charged' elections aren't new or one political party's monopoly.
  
  I sense he wants to tell me more stories from 1984 as he offers me to join him and his boys for lunch. I politely decline. Polling stations in Hardwar, I am pretty sure, will see no foul play on Wednesday.
  
  
 
  Thwe corridors of the Chaudhury Chhaturam Mahavidal ay are alive with the sound of EVMs. Like some mythological bird, they fill up the polling booths one by one with their chirps. Outside sits RK Singh and  , in uniform, doing their special police duty bearing their light-sabrelooking batons with a friendly touch.
  
  
  
  
  Singh has been deputed from faraway Sultanpur, some 700 kms aw a y f r om Muzaffarnagar. “It’s been very peaceful . It ’s very nice,” says Singh, who was also here during the less-than-tranquil 2014 Lok Sabha elections that took place in the wake of the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar. Siddiqi, her hair smartly tied up in a tight bun, even smiles. She is from Baghpat, some two hours away. Both of them look, well, happy sitting under the crisp winter sun looking across a startingly clean, salmon pinkwalled school compound.
  
  Also bearing a smile, sitting inside an auto and looking into the distance, as if distance was not space but time, is the begumlike 95-yearold Vidyavati Sharma. Her regal , bony face is lined with decades of poll booth visits – “for the last 50 years” she tel ls me with that smile that spreads out from inside the auto. I tell her that, yes, I am a little older than her. Which may have come across as, yes, I am a little older for her, since she turns her smile into a full-throated laugh. Her son Amar Sharma appears, brother Jitendra and families in tow. “She’s been up since early morning waiting to go out and vote – haranguing all of us to leave as soon as the daily family puja got over,” he says with a laugh. As they all enter – mother, sons, daughters-in-law and their kids – and then putter away out of the school compound, I have only one thought: Vidyavati of Muzaffarnagar was once a very beautiful younger woman.
  
