AHMEDABAD: The   said that the   in 2007 gave   a free hand in admissions, setting fees and deciding on their own boards.

 During a debate on the   issue, minister of state for health Shankar Chaudhary claimed that the varsity got its permissions through unfair means. He said the university authorities ensured that the letter seeking the state’s NOC did not reach the state. When the state tried to bring it under its the ambit for fee regulation, the varsity authorities escaped it using their political clout in the UPA-led government. Sumandeep Vidyapith was given deemed university status in 2007.
 
 He said that the varsity had a free hand in admissions and fixing fees since 2007. The minister told the house that the varsity was involved in corrupt practices. 
 
 “The government, even if it wanted to, can’t take any action as the vidhyapith is a deemed university under the Centre and UGC Act. According to the norms, to be a deemed university, the institute had to be 15 years old, but in this case it was given permission in the special research category.”
 
 The minister replying to a debate drawing the attention of the government further said that the Union government led by Narendra Modi made it clear that deemed universities will need to join the state’s centralized admissions or the central admissions. He said: “We are also working out a mechanism where the government will ensure that the fees of the deemed university Sumandeep Vidyapith is fixed by the fee regulatory committee led by retired high court judge Akshay Mehta,” he said.
 
 The minister said there are three deemed universities in the state — Sumandeep, Parul University and Dharmsinh Desai University. The state government has control over Parul and DD University as these are state deemed universities, but Sumandeep is a Centre-notified university.Sumandeep has 150 MBBS seats and all of these were sold at a premium of Rs 3 crore, said Punja Vansh, the Congress MLA who moved the motion. Last year, Sumandeep conducted admissions through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. Vansh said the university was violating all norms and was granting admission without following the merit order. He alleged that the even the dental, nursing and physiotherapy seats were sold by the management.
 
