BENGALURU: City doctors recently proved their prowess in geriatric care after successfully operating on three elderly citizens, including a  , despite the risks involved.

 V N Srinivasan, 100, from Koramangala was admitted to St John’s Medical College Hospital last week after his heart showed signs of weakening. On an emergency basis, he was first treated with a temporary external pacemaker, but he became completely dependent on it. 
 
 That was when doctors opted for a pacemaker surgery. “Despite his advanced age, a pacemaker   was essential and lifesaving,” said Dr Kiron Varghese, professor and head of the department of cardiology. Pacemaker is a small device placed in the chest to help control irregular heart rhythm.
 
 The hospital claimed Srinivasan is the first male centenarian in   to have undergone a successful pacemaker surgery. “We hardly get centenarian patients. It’s a risk to operate on such patients as they feel restless and are fragile. Any minor complication can turn fatal in such cases and we have to be extra cautious to prevent complications,” Dr Varghese told TOI. 
 
 Srinivasan turned 100 on March 26. “He was discharged on Saturday and is recovering,” said   S, his daughter.
 
 
 
 
 Achan PVK, who will turn 100 this October, had not visited a doctor in the past two decades. But after a fall at home early this week, he sustained a hip-ball fracture and had no choice but undergo an operation. 
 
 The retired BHEL executive director had no second thoughts when doctors said he had to undergo a hip-replacement surgery if he didn’t want to be confined to bed. Achan was lucky that the surgery was performed within 48 hours of the fall, helping in faster recuperation and better mobility. He began taking small steps a day after the procedure. 
 
 “I am always active. It’s my habit to walk after having breakfast. Even on the day I fell, I managed to do all my work,” said Achan, president of the Indian Institute of Quality Assurance in Trichi.
 
 “With increasing life expectancy in India, more people live into their eighth or ninth decade. Hip-ball fractures do not heal naturally and patients mostly need surgery to get back on their feet. Though surgery is risky at this age, skipping it would make patients bedridden, leading to blood clots and bed sores,” said Dr Sunil Kini, senior consultant orthopedician at Manipal Hospitals, who operated on Achan.
 
 Achan requires physiotherapy sessions to recover fully, said   L, physical therapist, adding: “In four-five weeks, he should be able to walk independently.” 
 
 
 
 Imagine a life without being able to move your shoulders. That’s what 80-year-old Bhadramma, a resident of Thippasandra, had to face after she fell on June 30. She sustained multiple fractures in her right shoulder and was unable to move it due to swelling. 
 
 The surgery, which would have cost Rs 3 lakh in a private hospital, was done free of cost at the government-run Sir CV Raman Nagar general hospital in   on July 11. “There were multiple fractures, which couldn’t have been fixed without a shoulder-replacement surgery,” said Dr John Ebnezar, medical superintendent of the hospital. 
 
 A ball-shaped stainless steel artificial implant was fixed on her right shoulder. The patient, who has been discharged, is now able to move her shoulder, said doctors. 
 
