 was asked to deliver a poll anthem for the   in two days, but had no clue that the party would go with Manoj Tiwari's song instead. Kailash Kher sung the first Swachh Bharat anthem in 2014, performed at the two-year celebration bash of the Modi government last year, performed alongside Baba Ramdev at a Yoga Day event on Rajpath and lent his voice to BJP's UP election campaign. But probably for the first time, the singer hasn't hit quite the right note with the party, which is yet to officially release Kailash's song which was composed for the MCD polls. According to reports, the launch event of his song has been shelved as   chief   had also recorded and released a song for the party.

  Kailash says he was asked to urgently complete the song, and he did so last week. "Last week, we made this song as senior BJP members asked me to compose and sing this song for the polls. Maine do din raat-din ek karke kaam kiya us gaane pe as I wanted to complete it in time. We have given the song to the party, par shayad wahan ke kisi bade ne bhi gaana banaya hai. The song hasn’t been released yet and I am not thinking too much about it as it happens sometimes that you are asked to create something but that something never sees the light of the day," says Kailash, who is in Delhi to to receive his Padma Shri.
 
  
  
 
 
 "It happens with so many films, jo kisi ke liye banayi jaati hain, par woh kabhi release hi nahi ho pati," says Kailash. The singer says that he composed the song keeping in mind the slogan that was given to him – "Naye Chehre, Nayee Urja, Nayee Udaan, Dilli Mange Kamal Nishan."
 
 "I don't make songs just for entertainment, so when I created the song, my idea was to inspire and encourage people. The lyrics of my song are 'Badal raha hai desh, ab badlegi Dilli, bahut dagmagaai hai, ab sambhlegi Dilli. Naye chehre, nayi urja, nayi udaan ho, har har ghar ghar kamal nishaan ho, duniya mein Rajdhaani ki nayi pehchaan ho, Dilli ke haathon mein Dilli ki kamaan ho,'" says the singer, who later found out that the song may have a “soft launch and it might be introduced on social media." 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  He adds, "Hota hai kai baar, gaane nahi release ho paate. Abhi mujhe yehi pata chala hai ke shaayad gaane ko social media par release karein, though nothing has been communicated to me in this regard," says Kailash.
 
 
  
  
 
 
