INDORE: With the conclusion of Industry Institute Meet-2017 at Institute of Engineering and Technology,   on Thursday, the engineering students now become more confident about getting internships and placements in top corporate houses. During the two-day meet, students got an opportunity to interact with various representatives of reputed multi-national companies and got to know about their requirements and present trends.

 The last day of the meet saw interactive sessions and panel discussions. The first session was on “Core sector in India- challenges and opportunities” wherein representatives from Tata motors and   interacted with the students and solved their queries.
 
 The second half of the session was a lecture by representative from Cognizant Technologies. The session saw talks on updation in teaching curriculum for students and technology by the industry experts. 
 
 After this, selected students sat in a panel discussion on topic “Technology Innovations for Digital India” with expert faculty and coordinators of the meet. 
 
 “The entire meet has given us a lot of confidence and cleared our vision about getting placed in top brands. We also got to know about latest educational trends and internships with these corporate houses which was indeed very useful for us,” said Nikhil Sharma, a final year student from  . 
 
 “The discussions helped us to understand the real meaning of   and digitalization which most of the people relate to e-transactions only. But we got to know online training and internships are also examples of this and likewise we can innovate with our thoughts,” added Sharma. 
 
 On the concluding day, IET director Dr   said “We will be collaborating with industries for faculty and student training programmes in the near future. We are preparing a roadmap for the same. Students will get to do internship with various big brands in different sectors. Students and faculties will also get the opportunity to attend industrial meets and placement drives in bigger cities like Pune, Bengaluru, Hyderabad etc.”
 
 
