AHMEDABAD: The death of one great Indian bustard (GIB) has again raised concerns and   are now demanding that the overhead   be moved underground especially in parts of Kutch and around the Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary at Naliya.

 Wildlife experts have even written to chief minister Vijay Rupani asking him to order Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited (GETCO) lay underground cables in the Naliya and Lala areas. On failing to get a response from the CM, Corbett Foundation and IUCN expert group on the bustard member, Divyesh Gadhvi, has now written to PM   and the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, asking them to direct GETCO to lay underground cables instead.
 
 Bharat Jethwa, a researcher, says, “The Lala GIB sanctuary, which a breeding area for GIB has become enclosed in power lines. The government should take action to preserve this majestic bird. This is the time to shift these power cables or we will lose this critically endangered species.” Jethwa further said that the substation of GETCO is within the sanctuary. The government should shift this power station, even it means spending a few crores.
 
 Gadhvi adds, “Along with  , the president of Corbett Foundation, Kutch, we have written to the Prime Minister, asking him to direct the Gujarat government to go underground in areas inhabited by the GIB.”
 
 “In the letter we reminded the PM of how he as chief minister of Gujarat in 2012 ordered GETCO to go underground in areas where hundred of flamingos had died. Even in Dholka, Modi as CM ordered cables to be laid underground in the long-term interests of conservation. We have requested the PM to intervene and remove the GETCO power lines from the GIB’s habitat.”
 
 A senior officer, who asked not to be identified, said, “In December 2011, after the Khadir incident, the principal secretary for environment and forests, S K Nanda, had announced that all high-tension wires near the bird sanctuary would go underground. However, since then, except for Khadir and Dholka, there has been no other area where cables have been laid underground.”
 
 The minister for enironment and forests,  , said, “I will have to check the records before commenting on the issue.”
 
 
 
 
 Given the alarmingly dwindling numbers of the great Indian bustard (GIB) in Gujarat, the state forest department should mandate that all high tension cables within bird sanctuaries and their eco-sensitive zones be laid underground. This is the need of the hour to save the GIB, which is a critically endangered species in Gujarat, lest it go locally extinct.
 
