CHENNAI: Smile! You're about to be busted for cellphone robbery.

 Twenty-year-old Sunaiz Rehman, a BArch student from Royapettah, wasn't overly perturbed after two robbers made away with his cellphone on Sunday night.
 
 That was because chances were the robbers would give themselves away if they tried to use the device -it was armed with a   that automatically takes a photograph of a person who, with  , makes three   to  .
 
 Rehman got home, checked his email and there it was: A clear photograph of the robber who tried to use the phone. He took a printout of the picture and handed it over to the city police, helping them nab two  , both repeat offenders who snatched at least five mobile phones from their owners in the past week.
 
 Rehman, marvelling at the in-built McAfee security app, said he was walking through Balaji Nagar at 11pm when he recei ved a phone call. When he pulled out his cellphone to answer the call, two men on a motorcycle veered close to him, grabbed the device and sped away .
 
 When he got home less than 15 minutes later, he had received an email asking him whether his cellphone was in safe hands or if he had lost it. “There were two link options, so I clicked on `No, it was lost',“ Rehman said. “The app then displayed a photograph of the person who had unsuccessfully tried to unlock the phone minutes after the robbery and the location of the device at the time.“ Rehman lodged a complaint with the Royapettah police and, though he failed to note down the registration number of the robbers' motorcycle, handed over to the station officer the photograph and location details that he had received by email.
 
 The app continued to update Rehman on the phone's location whenever the culprits switched it on. It first calculated that the device was in coordinates that matched two places in the Triplicane area and then one in Parry's Corner. eputy commissioner of D police V Balakrishnan assigned sub-inspector Akilanraj and constable Sugumaran to track down the robbers based on the app's inputs.
 
 The policemen hurried to P M Dargah and caught the two men, Mohammad Abis, 19, of Dargah 5th Street, and Hussain Babu, 19, of Dargah 4th Street. They had by Monday afternoon sold the phone for Rs 4,000 to a man in Parry's Corner. They retrieved Rehman's phone and the other stolen devices. While questioning the two men at the police station, investigators found that the pair had robbed at least five cellphones from unsuspecting pedestrians in one week.
 
