 has spent approximately six hours on the field with the India Under-17   squad since joining the team but is convinced that the hosts will not be mere pushovers when the Fifa   kicks off in approximately seven months. The newly-appointed coach explains why he believes India will measure up to the challenge in this exclusive interview with TOI. Excerpts…
 
  
 
  I am very confident. I know the responsibility. Our life as coach is such that we have to be prepared for all eventualities. I know many people don’t believe in this project but this is not just about the (U-17) World Cup. This is about the future of this country. I believe I can make a small contribution and change the mentality of these players. India does not have a (successful) history in football but we must all remember that there are always chances in life. Even if there is a small percentage (for success), we must fight. That has always been my philosophy.
  
  
 
  impression?
  I need at least eight to ten weeks to say something definite but the first impression is that they have tremendous energy (in training). They are honest on the field, determined, willing to learn and ready to give everything to this project. It’s good to see them like this.
  
  
 
  No, no. Not for a national team. We would be short (on time) if the competition was only a month or two away. Seven months with the team which is always together is good enough to make an impact. We can travel to another country and play friendlies because these players are not involved with any clubs. If it was seven months with players available only on weekends, I would have complained. Not now.
  
  
 
  Everyone in India tells me, ‘coach, this is a big challenge. If you win a game, it will be good.’ People have this belief that there is a big difference between India and other national teams. I know a lot of great countries will participate; six from Europe with another 10 being left out. From South America, Argentina didn’t even qualify and Senegal didn’t make it from Africa. If I can reduce the gap between India and the rest of the world, it will be mission successful for me.
  
  
 
  I would like to win a game, possibly have four points that can help us qualify for the next stage but my focus is on improving these players. For now, there is no pressure; the pressure will be in October. If the players understand my philosophy, they have a big chance to take their game to the next level. There is only one certainty in life: death; for everything else, we have a fighting chance.
  
  
 
  We have a problem (training here). May is very hot and the monsoon starts in June. It’s difficult (to train) during the rains. We must go to places where we can train normally with good weather and have good teams to compete with. I want matches against strong teams. I don’t mind losing all matches now for a win in the World Cup opener. There are coaches who avoid difficult opponents but that will not give us a correct picture of our strength. I want to watch these players make mistakes and prepare them for the dangers ahead.
  
  
 
  I like to work with locals. It’s important for the local coaches to have contact with another philosophy of training. I have a fantastic assistant coach and perhaps after the first tour to Europe, we may need someone for specific areas. May be an analyst, who will play an important role.
