AURANGABAD: Winter made a comeback to the city on Saturday with   by almost   over the last 24-hours. 

 At 12 degrees celsius, the minimum   which was hovering well above normal range for the last few days, dipped 0.7 degree celsius below average mark, the   (IMD) data showed.
 
 As per IMD, the night temperature was well below normal in some parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha. 
 
 The met department has also predicted that cold conditions could last for the next few days.
 
 As per IMD, the mercury-level could drop further by one degree celsius in the next 24-hours and thereafter continue to hover around 12 degree celsius to 13 degree celsius for the next few days.
 
 Among other Marathwada cities, Parbhani reported minimum of 13.7 degrees celsius temperature while Nanded recorded 16 degrees celsius on Saturday.
 
 The maximum temperature in Aurangabad and some other parts of Marathwada could fluctuate between 31 degrees celsius and 32 degrees celsius for the next few days. Although, it will be within the normal range, IMD has said. 
 
 Even though parts of Marathwada had been witnessing cloudy conditions since the last 48-hours, the met department has denied the possibility of rain for both Aurangabad and the region. 
 
 While people thought that winter was on its last legconsidering minimum temperature was consistently hovering around 16 degrees celsius markthe return of cold conditions has surprised many.
 
 “It was almost like summer throughout this week and we thought that winter had come to an end. We had also started using fan at night due to the warmer conditions,” said Rupali Baviskar, a resident of Mayur Park.
 
 Yogesh Kulkarni, a teacher who conducts physical training classes in school during the morning hours, said that the return of winter has caught him off guard. “Assuming winter was nearly over, I had given all my protective clothes for laundry and dry-cleaning. I had to brave the unexpected morning chill on Saturday while going to the school,” he said.
 
 The city recorded 7.6 degree celsius on January 12, the lowest minimum temperature of the current winter season. 
 
