It’s a rocking reincarnation. At last! The mezzanine windowless restaurant of   has been through many an avatar… from the New York chef-driven ‘Pure’ to the past its prime, London’s ‘Maritime by San Lorenzo’. Now, fresh energy (kudos Parveen Chander) has been breathed into the once comatose space.   is the perfect venue to rock with a gorgeous powerhouse of energy and talent who’d been here thrice before. And loved it.

 
 
 Please see the photo. No, I did not catch the gorgeous young actor-producer wearing her lipstick. She’s about to eat the molecular lipstick. It’s a part of House of Nomad’s innovative cocktail, ‘Chanel No 6’, served with a delicious dramatic fragrant mist! The perfect drink for Tanishaa Mukerji, who has food and film in her genes. Brought up on Beluga caviar by her mom, superstar Tanuja, even her legendary actress and phenomenal cook grandmother Shobhana Samarth’s Kaleji Bheja was part of Tanishaa’s childhood. Entertainer Kishore Kumar’s sister, Tanishaa’s daadi cooked up sublime bhog for Durga Puja. Her discerning palate opinion was as forthcoming as her views on the music and drinks here.
 
 
 When we walked in, Despacito, the super-popular song throbbed the dramatically-lit space with its Island bar. Of the moment music and Bohemian chic design.
 
 
 
 It’s compact. It rocks to the tapas rhythm. The gastrobar menu does a skillful tightrope act between continents and the old and new, too. It has us crunching into plump crisp Golden Onion Rings with as much gusto as the Sheermal enrobed tasty, soft, Shammi Kebabs and the moist flavoursome Lamb Pie. Succulent Chicken Wings and plump with flavour sliders followed by the old world classic, deliciously addictive Baked Alaska. Chef Anirudhya Roy’s attention to detail shines through, be it the house-marinated plump olives or the Buttermilk Chicken and Sriracha Chilli Sandwich. Andrew Pearson’s innovative cocktails and choice of wines tango rhythmically with the food.
 
 
 
 Overcooked prawns under a blanket of butter and garlic. Hard and tasteless Paneer on skewers, Tartufo, doughy flatbread with lacklustre truffle. The Wedge Salad was put together in a slapdash fashion. Stodgy Sangria Trifle. Ditto for the Baked Chocolate Cookie Pudding with Bourbon ice cream.
 
 
 
 We welcome this high-energy gastrobar with low prices (average dish Rs 450). Compact global menu (some dishes need to be fine-tuned). Expansive list of wines and innovative cocktails. High wattage music, which pumps up into the wee hours of the night. Kudos, Taj Lands End for breathing in fresh energy into its staid five star environs. High time!
 
