PATNA: Close on the heels of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD)’s forecast of a severe summer in the coutry this year, international agencies have predicted less than normal rainfall in the monsoon months of July and August this year in eastern India. including Bihar.

 The two months are considered crucial for Kharif cultivation, especially plantation of paddy saplings. According to agri experts, at least 60-70% of Kharif cultivation in Bihar depends on monsoon rainfall.
 
 The only silver lining is the likelihood of more than normal rainfall in the month of June when southwest monsoon arrives in most parts of the country, starting from the Kerala coast.
 
  of the Centre for Environmental Sciences at Central University of South Bihar said El- Nino conditions were likely to resurface in the central Equatorial Pacific region, which might lead to irregular rainfall in the monsoon season. “El-Niño conditions are followed by drought conditions,” he said.
 
 El Niño, a Spanish word for ‘Christ Child’, is an abnormal warming of water in the   every three to five years. It can last up to 18 months.
 
 Partha Sarthi said the sea-surface temperature in the central Equatorial Pacific was showing a rising trend at present, which might eventually trigger El Nino conditions. 
 
 “Climate outlook and deterministic forecast using multi- models of different countries suggest that the western parts of India may receive normal rainfall during the monsoon season. The eastern parts, including the Gangetic plains of Bihar, UP and adjoining regions, may receive above normal rainfall in June and below normal in July and August,” said Partha Sarthi.
 
 El Nino weather phenomenon has been commonly associated with poor rainfall in   in the past. The year 2015 was an El Nino year when Bihar too had received 27% deficient rainfall.
 
 Earlier, the IMD in its long-range forecast suggested that the actual temperature in the month of March may be 0.8 degree C higher than the normal and 1.25 degree C above the respective normal in April across the country.
 
 THUNDERSTORM LIKELY TODAY
 
 Patna and many places in Bihar received thundershower with lightning on Friday. Thunderstorm is expected to intensify further across Bihar on Saturday and likely to neutralize by late Sunday evening. Many north Bihar districts, including Gopalganj, East Champaran and West Champaran witnessed hailstorm as well. Patna witnessed light rain with lightning in the evening. Weather experts said this is the first spell of Nor’Wester thundershower — sudden thunderstorm activities in summer season — in the region. Met officials attributed the turbulent weather conditions to multiple weather systems, including a western disturbance over Jammu and Kashmir, a cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh and a trough between Haryana and  . 
 
 
