If you think you’ll get to see heart-shaped red balloons flying in the air, handsome college hunks serenading their pretty Valentines and proposing them with cute teddy bears and roses in the backdrop of college campus, surrounded by cheering students — you need to wake up now. This will not be the scenario at the city campuses on February 14. Students have been told in no uncertain terms by the college management to desist from planning mushy V-Day events on the campus. We find out the reasons behind this move to keep love out of the colleges…

 
 
 Fearing backlash from certain conservative political outfits, who strongly object to celebrating Valentine’s Day, the top management of Dr Ambedkar Institute of Management Studies and Research has told students not to celebrate the day of love in college. One of the faculty members, Ajay Gidwani, informs, “Our college management had a meeting recently, wherein it was decided to ask the students not to indulge in any activity pertaining to Valentine’s Day in the college. The purpose is to safeguard them from political backlash.” He goes on to add, “Quite a few members of some of the political parties roam outside the college. To avoid any unpleasantness, we have asked all the students to leave the campus immediately after the lectures. Also, we shall be monitoring the campus premises through CCTVs so that the decorum of the college is maintained.”
 
 
 
 At  , the discipline committee will keep a strict vigil, so that students refrain from celebrating the Valentine’s Day on the premises. Principal of the college, Dr Narendra Khandait, says, “Since examinations are round the corner, we have strictly prohibited our students from engaging in frivolous activities. They are free do it outside the college, but within the college, we want our students to focus only on academics and respect the institution. Our discipline committee will keep a check on the students. The members will ensure that there is no Public Display of Affection or proposals happening on the campus.”
 
 
 
 Like many other colleges of Nagpur, City Premier College has also closed its doors to Valentine’s Day celebrations. The activity cell coordinator at  , Dr Deepali Naidu, says, “Students misuse the occasion and create nuisance on the campus premises. They try to impress their love interests by bringing them fancy gifts and proposing them with flowers on the campus; there is a possibility of fights and arguments too. We don’t want this scenario in our college.”
 
 
 
 While many city colleges are taking precautions and enforcing discipline to keep their campus free of V-Day celebrations, the management of   of management has come up with a creative idea. Faculty member of the college, Rohit Turani, shares, “Although we won’t be celebrating Valentine’s Day in our college this year, we have come up with a different idea which involves the senior students of the college, who will offer roses and teddy bears to their juniors as part of an academic exercise to bridge the gap between them. Also, the seniors have prepared a powerpoint presentation for the juniors related to flowers and soft toy business, wherein the students will showcase how these industries are thriving around the world. This endeavour aims at educating the management students.”
 
