LUCKNOW: More   on Thursday ensured more damage to roads,   of the city. The day saw constant rains since morning and the effect was so severe that   at many places caved in at places like Lohiya Path, Indiranagar, Aliganj, Shaktinagar, Triveninagar and Gomtinagar. 

 A big cave was formed near the foot-over bridge of Lohiya path near Jia-Mau. The footpath showed some   a day earlier which later became major wide and eventually the footpath caved in on the side of DGP office. 
 
 In Indiranagar, the concretised road from Takrohi Market to Matiyari Crossing has not only broken in many places but a stretch of 200 metre has caved in too. This road is surrounded by farmlands almost 15-feet-deeper than the road level. Locals say if the road is not restored immediately, it would be a death-trap for anyone who slips. Vijay Gupta, a resident said, “Despite repeated complaints, LMC hasn’t restored the caved-in patch. People are getting hurt while commuting on this road on a daily basis.” 
 
 The situation is worse in low-lying areas where the road depressions pose a big risk as the pits are immersed in water. One can see large depressions on approach roads leading to colonies of Shaktinagar, Triveni Nagar and Surendra Nagar. Even the interlocking tiles of footpaths at several places have cracked. Ramesh Shukla of Aliganj said, “The footpath of the main road in sector Q, Aliganj, has broken in several places. This is close to Saraswati Mandir School and is risky for children.”
 
 Prominent places like Eco-Garden crossing of Alambagh, Charbagh railway station, high court, Lohiya Hospital, Puraniya Crossing to Ram Ram Bank crossing were all submerged in deep water. At Charbagh, people were seen driving up to the main building instead of parking their cars first to avoid walking through logging. Patients and attendants at Lohiya Hospital were having a tough time because of waterlogging. 
 
 Traffic was jammed for long hours at all prominent crossings — Polytechnic, IT, Badshahnagar, Samta Mulak, Puraniya and Sikanderabagh throughout the day. Call it excessive rains or lack of policing, people were stuck for long hours at the roundabouts. 
 
 
