MADURAI: A dispute over the use of sea water between villagers of Pullavali and   during the early 1990s, triggered a rivalry that became more vicious over three decades.
Pasupathi Pandian, a dalit from Alangar Thattu village in Tuticorin, who had been involved in at least a couple of murders by then, was becoming a notable man in his community. His support of the community earned the wrath of Sivasubramania Nadar and his family from Moolakarai. The rivalry became more intense when Pasupathi Pandian and his accomplices murdered Sivasubramania Nadar's son   in 1993. He is Subhash Pannaiyar's father and Venkatesh Pannaiyar's maternal uncle.The latter was killed in Chennai during a police encounter in 2003. He was a prominent figure in the Nadar community and was involved in several murders and extortion incidents. His wife  , who was given an MP ticket by the DMK after Venkatesh Pannaiyar`s death, bagged the Tiruchendur constituency and was even made a minister of state. The dispute between the groups soon developed into a caste war. It led to the mobilization of people from their respective communities. Pasupathi Pandian went on to start Devendra Kula Vellalar Kootamaippu. Pannaiyar's family too enjoyed the support of Nadars.
 
 To take revenge for the many lives the Pannaiyar family lost, an attempt on Pasupathi's life was made the same year. While Pasupathi Pandian escaped with grievous injuries, his close aide Pon Isakki was murdered. Within three months Sivasubramaniya Nadar was hacked to death by   and his accomplices. The back to back attacks from both sides resulted in several more deaths. There seemed to be a let up after the death of Venkatesh Pannaiyar.
 
 When things seemed to get back to normal, Pandian's wife Jessintha was murdered by supporters of Subash on April 4, 2006. Later, Pandian himself was killed by Subash's men in Nanthavanampatti in Dindigul district on January 10, 2012.
 
 An attempt was made on  's life in 2016, to take revenge for Pandian's murder. He escaped but in the bid, two of his men were killed.
 
