KOLKATA: To express community gratitude, the Italian historic and linguistic legendary icon of   Luigi Pio Tessitori, was paid tribute at the Asiatic Society on Saturday by the   (RPS) — an acclaimed cultural body of the community with a wing in the city.

 Tessitori became the state’s one of the most respected literary icons when he came to India over a century ago to chronicle the language and literature of Rajasthan. He documented the bardic and historical literature of Rajputana in 1914 at the invitation of George Grierson, who had conducted the Linguistic Survey of India.
 
 As Grierson’s survey was unable to document the languages of Rajputana, he invited Tessitori to conduct a research as a scholar of the Asiatic Society. Those days, Kolkata was the citadel of intellectual activity. Though Tessitori conducted his field work at Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bikaner, he carefully documented his findings at the Society. Many of his manuscripts have been systematically published by the Society, which has also preserved his handwritten materials.
 
 Grierson’s dependence on Tessitori stemmed from the fact that the latter, a scholar from the University of Florence, had earned his higher degrees in Sanskrit, Prakrit and Pali. He read Ramayana out of passion and even did a thesis on the comparative study of Balmiki’s Ramayana written in Sanskrit and the one written in Awadhi by Tulsidas. Its a one of its kind document which is still used as a reference material in India. Tessitori worked extensively to map the evolution of Rajputana language and literature.
 
 “Several roads and institutions in Rajasthan are named after Tessitori. A holiay is also marked in his honour. Unfortunately, not much has been done in Kolkata to remember the linguist. So when the RPS suggested a   programme, we were naturally excited,” said linguist SS Bhattacharya, who is also a senior member of the Society.
 
 During the programme, Rajasthani poet and translator, Chandra Prakash Dewal and leader of Association of Indians in America, Shekhar Shah, spoke on Tessitori’s contribution. “Though Rajasthanis are lauded for their business acumen, very little is known about their language and literature. Without Tessitori, much of this would have been lost…” said Ratan Shah, RPS president.
 
 
