DEHRADUN: While the ban on   is being enforced across several states, beginning from April 1, abattoirs run by the armed forces have also been shut. Defence personnel will from now on be supplied  , instead of freshly-slaughtered food. The move, however, is not connected to the prohibition on civilian abattoirs. The government had passed an order last year asking armed forces to switch to frozen meat. According to defence officials, although the cost of frozen meat will be the same as freshly-slaughtered meat, the overall expenditure is likely to go up due to the infrastructure required to store frozen meat.
 
  “Last year we were asked for our feedback regarding the choice between frozen and fresh meat. We had replied that we preferred fresh meat, but now frozen meat has been made mandatory, effective from the beginning of this financial year. The Centre issued instructions that from April onwards slaughtering of animals will not be carried out. However, defence personnel generally prefer fresh meat, and storing frozen products will be a problem in remote areas. This might lead to a lot of wastage,” said a senior Army officer, on condition of anonymity.
  
    (ASC) is the branch of the   which is responsible for providing rations to soldiers. The Navy and   have their counterparts for this. A few veterans have termed the government’s decision as “illogical”, claiming that frozen meat does not have the same nutrients as fresh meat, and would have a lot of artificial preservatives, which would affect the health of the troops.
  
  Col (retd) S C Tyagi, who served in the ASC and commanded a number of supply depots across the country, told TOI, “The Army has contractors for each supply depot, whose job is to get the animals slaughtered in our butcheries. This is done in extremely hygienic conditions under the supervision of a veterinarian. The animals are checked thoroughly before they are slaughtered, and the meat is checked thoroughly afterwards too. The meat is then distributed within 6 hours to the regiments. The process is properly supervised.”
  
  “Supplying frozen meat is not a good idea, because of the additional cost involved. The soldiers do not like it much either, because of the difference in taste. In high-altitude areas, where it is not possible to get fresh meat, frozen products are supplied, but it should not be done across the board. Every regiment will need to buy refrigerated vans to transport the meat, as well as cold storage facilities. Al of this is unnecessary expenditure. Moreover, there is no guarantee that the frozen meat will be better than the fresh items,” Tyagi added.
