Bound by Chowringhee in the east, the Race Course in the west, punctuated by Nandan, Rabindra Sadan, the Academy of Fine Arts, the   and Birla Planetarium, this area could well be called the art district of Calcutta for want of a better term. It offers indulgence in a bit of art and entertainment, or just a place to while away the time. By any definition, this is a public space.
Apart from film, theatre, music and the displays in the galleries, what art do you recall seeing in this public space? Statuary of famous people? Terracotta panels and artwork on the Metro station walls? Architecture, mostly colonial and some modern? Go around the rest of the city and you will not see much different. The art of Puja pandals is about the only feature which temporarily alters the city’s look annually. The other public spaces which ostensibly offer art to the public are intimidating to the average citizen and only provide ways and means to empty savings accounts, setting you up for life-long debt. These of course are the malls with their shops, cineplex, and restaurants perpetuating the great divide between the haves and the have-nots. 
 
 Definitions of art and public space tend to follow some doubtful empirical thought. Public space seems to be defined as where ‘no smoking’ rules apply. Art is spoken about only as the “monumental”: architecture, sculpture, installations, commercial cinema and so on. The “ephemeral” is dismissed with a laugh. In a city like Calcutta, the boundaries of public and private space are constantly overlapping. Strangely, this is seen as a deterrent rather than inspiration for creativity.
 
 
 
 One obvious reason to put up statuary and sculpture in public spaces is to lend a sense of beauty and aesthetics to the environment. Most are erected as memorials to evoke awe and as motifs of indisputable history, though an art critic did once call Calcutta a “necropolis” with its many statues of dead persons. Art forms attempted as impositions of added beauty to public spaces are scarce, usually enclosed and guarded, while the rampant blue and white colour theming is terrible in its intention. Presumably, these are not considered waste and are rather expected to be viewed with wonder. What I do see in the public spaces are the informal performance arts in plenty. Street musicians and theatre, acrobats, jugglers, artists drawing with coloured chalk on pavements, and the constant, ongoing drama of life that embraces you. For me, this is where art in public space is. In this context, I cannot but reference a project I did some years ago with an improvisational jazz vibraphone player from Berlin, Christopher Dell. We conducted a series of 10 musical interventions in public spaces spread over Calcutta which also resulted in a video available in parts on YouTube as ‘Kolkata Monodosis’.
 
 
 
 When Christopher played the vibraphone on Calcutta’s streets without previous announcement, he occupied space in the midst of the usual hawkers. The passers-by as the impromptu audience, reacted and responded to his free jazz improvisations without prejudice, his playing inspired by the environment, the sounds and smells, the crowds organically forming and dispersing about him. In all but one location, the synergy between musician and audience was electric, almost tangible. The one exception was on the pavement outside east Calcutta’s City Centre mall where the people, far fewer in number than elsewhere, kept a respectful distance, both physically and socially. The one person who did converse with Christopher after his performance stood at least 10 feet away. What does this prove, if anything? That audience sensibilities are too easily judged and presumed upon. That “ephemeral” art like improvised music in a public space is as attractive as any other art. A case in point: Christopher’s performance captured on video is accessible only to those with internet connections, but a hawker at our south Calcutta location still asks me years after the event about the “mad foreigner” who played music on the street without having seen the film. Yet he recalls nothing of an artistic mural on the wall of a nearby public toilet he uses every day.Public space needs to be expanded beyond its mere functionality. Performance art in public spaces should be encouraged as bright interventions in the daily grind. That if we allow art to “happen” without useless strictures and regulations a far more creative expression will abound. Let the public be the judge of this. Then it would need no qualifier about it being aesthetic. It would simply be art.
 
 The late Muddy Waters famously sang, The blues had a baby and they called it rock‘n’roll. Rock‘n’roll’s first offspring was rock which in turn went on to have a whole lot more. In the late ’60s and early ’70s, its progeny was known as ‘art rock’ often synonymous with ‘progressive rock’ though there were distinct differences. Art rock first developed in   and bands like King Crimson, Emerson, Lake and Palmer,   were the standard bearers blurring the boundaries of modern art and music in their productions. The Beatles’ Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band and The Beach Boys’ Pet Sounds could be considered the gene bank. Still and all, it is known as rock music today and they are all classics, works of art.
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE
 
