NEW DELHI: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president   on Saturday released the party's manifesto for the upcoming 
  , focusing on schemes for the all-round development of the state at a function in Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow.

 "BJP is going to form the government with a two-thirds majority," Shah said, "We have taken the feedback of about 30 lakh people through missed calls, letters, etc. We have done 5,000 public meetings."
 
 The 

 
   manifesto 
 
 announced by the party president also focuses on creating job opportunities, and a better law and order environment in the state.
 
 "UP is still a BIMARU (an acronym for Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh) state while the states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh which were under BJP rule are no more part of it. They have excelled under BJP," Shah said.
 
 The BJP president further said that efforts will be made to ensure that the Ram temple in Ayodhya is constructed under constitutional provisions.
 
 Shah brought up the the contentious issue of triple talaq, saying the BJP will present the views of Muslim women to the Supreme Court. He said a special team would be formed to check mass exoduses caused by communal tensions, and added that District Magistrates will be held responsible for them. 
 
 Without mentioning cow slaughter, he said all mechanised slaughterhouses in the state will be closed.
 
 Shah promised that the BJP will waive agricultural loans, and provide free education up to Class XII, laptops to "all students without discrimination," as well as 24-hour power supply. 
 
 He announced a scholarship scheme in honour of Dr BR Ambedkar and OBC leader Ahilya Bai Holkar. On the jobs front, he said no interviews will be held for Class III and IV UP government jobs, to end corruption during recruitment.
 
 Shah accused the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) of plundering the state for 15 years, and said the BJP has come with a pledge to transform the state.
 
 Shah said the Centre had sanctioned Rs 1 lakh crore to Uttar Pradesh, but no development was seen on the ground, and law and order was at its nadir.
 
 He also blamed the Akhilesh Yadav-led government for worsening the law and order situation in the state. 
 
 "Mathura and Bulandshahar incidents are the examples of law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh," he said.
 
 Yadav would have to answer for problems faced by the state where “ruling party goondas have grabbed land,” he added.
 
 "I don't have any qualms about saying that I want to thank the people of UP for giving us 72 of 80 seats. We wouldn't have made a majority government at the Centre. But it is unfortunate that even with central government, we can't do much for UP," the party president said.
 
 The party has so far announced 371 candidates, out of which 80 are Dalits and around 130 are from various backward castes. UP has 403 Assembly seats.
 
 The ruling 
  and has promised to create a women's education fund, among various other schemes.
 
