CHENNAI: Here’s the buzz for people in Tamil Nadu, a state in which   infect an average of 5,000 people with   each year and has recorded 100 deaths in the past six years.

 Scientists at Vector Control Research Centre (VCRC), Puducherry, will soon induce Wolbachia bacteria from fruit flies in the primary transmitter of the dengue virus, the female Aedes aegypti mosquito, to slow or prevent the spread of the life-threatening ailment.
 
 Once we introduce it in mosquitoes, the Wolbachia bacteria will hopefully block the dengue virus (flavivirus) from infecting new hosts, VCRC director P Jambulingam said.
 
 “When female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes draw blood infected with the dengue virus from humans, these insects become potential transmitters of dengue. They can inject the virus into the next person they draw blood from,” he said at the 13th Conference on Vectors and Vector-Borne Diseases held in Chennai on Monday. “Studies show Wolbachia retains the virus in the insect’s abdomen and does not let it migrate to its salivary gland.”
 
 The research institute will test the bacteria in its laboratory from March, with eggs of mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia from   in Australia.
 
 In 2016, more than 1 lakh people across the country tested positive for dengue and more than 200 died of the disease, data from the National Vector Control Programme shows. In the past six years, more than 30,000 people in Tamil Nadu tested positive and nearly 100 people died due to dengue. If the research is successful, the Union health ministry believes it could eliminate dengue from the country or at least out the brakes on the disease.
 
 Research by the Australian scientists showed Wolbachia from fruit flies can block the dengue virus in mosquitoes. The   has signed a memorandum with Monash University to study the impact of the bacteria countering dengue.
 
 “We have tried traditional vector control measures such as fogging, mosquito nets, spraying insecticide and clearing larvae from breeding sources,” ICMR director Dr   said. “But they have largely been ineffective. We have not been able to bring down the incidence of dengue. It’s time we look for biocontrol mechanisms.”
 
 In the first phase of the research, officials will allow breeding of bacteria-infected eggs in a cage with adult aedes carrying dengue virus.
 
 “We hope that in less than 10 weeks, the insects will be infected,” Jambulingam said. “Then we’ll check if the virus is retained in the insects’ abdomen. If it is, we will launch these insects in the field.”
 
 At least five countries including Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil are testing Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes to check the spread of dengue.
 
 Dr Soumya said ICMR is keeping tabs on research by private company Oxitec, which uses advanced genetics to insert a self-limiting gene into mosquitoes. The gene is passed on to the insect’s offspring, so genetically engineered male mosquitoes released in the wild mate with wild females and their offspring inherit the self-limiting trait. The resulting offspring die before reaching adulthood and local mosquito populations decline.
 
 Former ICMR director N K Ganguly said to control dengue, the country needs better disease burden assessment. “That requires a better reporting system,” he said. “We should strengthen evidence-based outbreak management. We still have a long way to go.”
 
 
