New Delhi: Its total debt of close to Rs 50,000 crore is proving to be “insurmountable” for   even as the   makes operational improvement in recent years. The airline management has blamed decisions taken by previous governments for the current state of the airline.

 AI chairman   on Sunday, in a Facebook post, said, “AI went down due to the ill fated decision of the merger of two organisations … coupled with many other wrong decisions of the earlier regime. Of course gross mismanagement at the senior management levels of the company played its part in the rapid downward slide too, but isn’t appointing senior management functionaries the function of the governments?”
 
 Stating that the airline has the “finest” employees, including  ,  , engineers and others, Lohani’s post says, “Yet the mountain of debt that we acquired appears unsurmountable (sic) and is at the root of all the problems that manifest as symptoms to all and sundry.”
 
 AI has loans of Rs 48,400 crore, including working capital and term loans of Rs 22,000 crore, aircraft-related debt of Rs 19,000 crore, and Rs 7,400 crore that it had raised via   (NCDs). The airline has been trying to get lenders to cut the interest rate on loans of Rs 10,500 crore, on which it pays 10.1%. The debt servicing alone comes to about Rs 4,000 crore per annum for the airline.
 
 Senior aviation minister   has often askd that even if the government decides to privatise AI, who will buy it given its size of liabilities? Raju’s deputy Jayant Sinha has been trying to find innovative ways of refinancing AI’s debt, including asking it to speak to   for the same.
 
 Lohani has maintained that deciding on the issue of privatising AI is the owner — read government’s — prerogative. He has been trying to increase revenue by adding flights and new routes through improved utilisation of existing resources — both aircraft and manpower.
 
 “Eventually a decision will have to be taken on AI’s future by some government that is willing to bite the bullet. Whether the Modi administration does so in its remaining two years of this tenure or the next government remains to be seen. It is better this tough decision is taken by a relatively clean administration where the interests of the Maharaja, the owner and the employees are the only factors in decision-making,” said an AI insider who did not want to be quoted.
 
 In 2012, UPA-II had approved equity infusion of Rs 42,182 crore in AI over a 20-year period under a financial restructuring plan (FRP). This bailout was necessitated by UPA-I’s controversial decision to order 111 aircraft for erstwhile AI, Indian Airlines and AI express which left the airline under a debt of Rs 43,112 crore on September 30, 2011.
 
 
