BENGALURU: Nearly 700 people on Sunday staged a demonstration at   against a real estate company which allegedly had cheated them of lakhs of rupees. 

  Over 5,000 citizens have been fighting for their investments in the allegedly fraudulent ventures of   since 2012. Their investments range from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.2 crore. They were shown empty plots and told that construction on those properties would start soon. 
 
  "When we got our lawyer to look at the memorandum of understanding (MoU) given to us, we were given the green signal as the land was in the name of the builders. What we slowly came to realize was that these builders had no intention of constructing any flats," said Rajani, who was convinced about investing in the projects as the Dreamz group had successful properties in Koramangala, Marathahalli and Silk Board. 
 
 "After waiting for six months and seeing no progress, not even   approval had come for construction, I got suspicious and cancelled my registration. Other people who live outstation were not as lucky. They are supposed to refund the money in 120 days of cancellation but they have been taking advantage of our patience," said Rajani who had invested Rs 1 lakh to buy a flat in   in Kundanahalli.
 
  Complaints galore: Senior citizens Raju and Kusuma claim that have lost money without any benefit accruing to them. "The project did not take off as planned and the MoU also lapsed. When we tried to cancel our registration, they gave us post-dated cheques that repeatedly bounced," alleged the 60-year-old retired government official. 
 
 The investors have filed collective as well as individual complaints against the builders. Sunday's protest was marked by blood donation camps, daylong fasting by residents and consultation sessions with a legal counsel.
 
 "Most of us have given legal notices before filing a case. We are not going for money recovery, instead asking for a stay order so nothing can happen to that land. Individually, we will file civil suits for money recovery," said Rajani.
 
 The management of the company was not available for comment.
 
