KOLKATA: The   government wants to significantly curb the state’s slide in the World Bank-initiated all-India “Ease of Doing Business” rankings and make it more industry-friendly.

 Come June and an investor, instead of logging in repeatedly on government websites, will be able to access the revamped Online Single Window Clearance System (OSWiCS), linked to 75 services, to get his project cleared across various departments within a stipulated timeframe through a highly efficient portal built on a Rapid Application Development platform. The online wizard will help an investor determine the set of approvals needed for starting   in any sector through a simple Q/A format.
 
 Chief minister   wants Bengal to be among the top three states when the department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) under the ministry of commerce and industry announces this year’s “doing-business rankings” on the basis of a 340-point business reforms action plan, formulated by the  .
 
 Between November 2016 and January 2017, the state IT department under the leadership of IT secretary Talleen Kumar (who had already built an online single window for the Centre’s eBiz project), worked overtime so Bengal becomes one of the most desired states for investment. 
 
 And the Common Application Form (CAF) that allows a business entity to file name, company particulars, project details, address and related documents just once, came into being. The e-form inside this dynamic OSWiP is linked to an integrated payment gateway that seeks one-time payment through the investor’s debit/credit card or net banking. What’s more, the investor can track his application online and download clearances, NoCs, approvals, permits et al.
 
 Last year, Bengal ranked 15th in the World Bank/DIPP appraisal of industry-friendly reforms undertaken by the various state governments.   and   topped the list. In 2015, while Gujarat led the list, Bengal’s position was 11th.
 
 The online single window platform will be available from May, ahead of the doing-business evaluation in June. Plus, there are 70 more online services, providing the investor with a gamut of approvals needed to start business in West Bengal.
 
 The state IT department has already implemented the Single Sign-On for 40 services which went live on January 11 this year. “Following the CM’s wish, we’re vying for one of the top three positions in the ‘doing business’ ratings. The measures will significantly improve business ambience in the state,” Bengal IT minister Bratya Basu told TOI.
 
 
