Kolhapur: The civic body is yet to set up a steering   to keep a tab on the progress on its ambitious   Direct   Project.

 The announcement of setting up of the committee under mayor Hasina Faras was made two months ago after several objections were raised and allegations of inflated bills were made regarding the Rs 488 crore pipeline project. Also, had the committee been in place, it would have been able to decide on works to be undertaken during monsoon.
 
 A senior Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) official, requesting anonymity, said, “The steering or monitoring committee can be finalised only after the names of elected representatives are suggested. We have forwarded the list of officials to be part of the committee to the mayor’s office. However, the mayor’s office has not finalised the names of the elected representatives. The scope of the committee will be decided in the very first meeting and it will regularly monitor the progress and quality of the work being done by the contractor.”
 
 The project is aimed at supplying clean water to the citizens. The 27-month deadline given to the contractor to end the work to lay the 52-km pipeline and set up pumping stations ended earlier this year.
 
 Later, it was decided that the contractor will be given one-year extension to complete the work. But the final decision to extend the deadline will be taken by the proposed committee. Engineering experts will also be part of the committee.
 
 “Currently, no major work is taking place related to the project. Due to the difficult terrain and continuous rainfall it is impossible to undertake the work of constructing the jack-well at Kalammwadi dam site or laying the pipelines. However, the minor works related to setting up the pumping stations at Puikhadi is going on,” said the official.
 
 Mayor Faras was unavailable for comments. However, sources in the mayor’s office, said the names will be suggested soon and the first meeting of the committee will take place later this month. 
 
 
