NEW DELHI / MUMBAI: The share price of Idea Cellular has spiked by over 15% since January 18 on the back of rising speculation of a 
  , which would create India’s largest telecom company. It would also represent the biggest consolidation yet in an industry that has been under heightened margins pressure following the aggressive entry of  .

 Talks to explore a merger have been “on for some time”, according to multiple sources. Idea’s decision to postpone its January 23 meeting to consider third quarter results has added fuel to the speculation; a fresh date is yet to be set.
 
 Questionnaires sent to both Idea and   on Wednesday had not been formally answered till the time of going to press on Friday. A spokesperson for Vodafone said the company was unable to respond as it “doesn’t comment on speculation”. Idea Cellular’s spokesperson declined comment, saying the company was in a “silent period” pending third-quarter results.
 
 Confirming that talks are on, a number of top bankers said Vodafone, which is the second-largest mobile-phone company (after Airtel) in the world’s second-largest market, and Idea Cellular, the No.3, were looking at the operational modalities of a merger. “These relate to breach of spectrum holding limits for the joint entity and monopoly concerns,” said one of them.
 
 Another person in the know said consolidation was fast becoming “a necessity” as both companies need to protect revenues, profitability and valuations in the wake of the price and freebies war unleashed by Jio.
 
 “The talks are serious and are gathering pace,” a top telecom industry consultant told TOI, requested anonymity since he is an advisor to a large shareholder in one of the companies. Even Malaysia’s Axiata, which holds nearly 20% in Idea Cellular, is studying the impact of a merger and how it can benefit the Indian company’s operations, profitability and shareholders, a person familiar with the development told TOI.
 
 Vodafone India, which had planned to 
  , is understood to have shelved the move. The ongoing talks could result in a reverse merger with the listed Idea, giving the combine more heft in the stock markets, said an industry person.
 
 The combined subscriber count of a merged entity would be nearly 39 crore, substantially higher than Airtel’s 27 crore and Jio’s present number of 7.2 crore. It would have a revenue market share of nearly 40% compared with Airtel’s near-32%. It would have the strongest retail footprint in the industry, as well as robust spectrum holdings.
 
 The initial assessment is that spectrum holdings and monopoly worries are not deal-breakers, although the combined entity may be forced to shed spectrum and subscribers in certain telecom circles. These would be to fall in line with competition laws as well as telecom merger and acquisitions guidelines.
 
 "If we go circle by circle, the merger will create a complimentary footprint and will have no big overlap worries," said a knowledgeable source. The combined entity will also result in large savings through shedding of excess cell sites, some of which could also be re-deployed, adding to profit margins, he added.
 
 These sources said the Birlas are “clear” that the merged entity should be headed by Idea Cellular chief executive Himanshu Kapania and added that Vodafone is open to the idea of joint management. But a key hurdle could be valuation, as Idea, citing its better operating profits, is seeking an almost equal valuation with the bigger Vodafone.
 
 Idea's beaten-down share price – from Rs 143 at the beginning of 2016 – has dragged its market value to around $4.2 billion, while Vodafone had sought a $10 billion valuation for listing its India arm.
 
 Analysts are upbeat on the benefits of a merger. “It’ll create a new leader in the mobile/data industry, challenging both Airtel and Jio and hence further intensifying competition,” CLSA, a research and consultancy firm, said in a report where it explored the implications of such an eventuality.
 
 Idea Cellular is seen by analysts to be in “vulnerable” position as data realisations may come down at a time of new investments and high interest costs. The company’s market cap at Friday’s scrip closing price of Rs 77.8 is about Rs 28,100 crore, a far cry from the Rs 39,400 crore it commanded around the same time last year.
 
 For Vodafone India – which is still to make a net profit on a full-year basis – a merger would be a good option to salvage falling valuations and cope with a tough business environment , say analysts.
 
 “Vodafone and its British headquarters are frustrated when it comes to regulatory and legal complications in India. The long-pending capital gains tax issues, high spectrum pricing, and Trai’s recent penalty recommendation over provision of interconnect points to Jio – are perceived as unfavourable for business,” a person in the know of things said. “In this scenario, the company should find a merger a better option than an outright exit as moving out will shave off nearly 200 million subscribers – that’s about 43% of Vodafone’s global customer base of 470 million. Also, it will mean exiting a large and growing telecom market, especially since it has no consumer presence in China, only an enterprise business,” he added.
 
 Vodafone has spoken about its plans for an IPO many times, but Jio’s entry has now dented valuations. “A merger will mean that business in India continues and sagging valuations get a boost,” an industry expert said. CLSA said it would pave the way for a “backdoor listing” for Vodafone without the hassles of an IPO.
 
 The performance of Airtel, arguably the strongest among the older lot, already makes sense for pushing a merger. Airtel’s profit dipped by 55% in the quarter ended December 30, 2016, and the outlook remains shaky with analysts expecting Jio to maintain its aggressive posturing for some more time.
 
 
