Margao: The   (BJP) seems to have lost its plot in the Margao constituency for the February 4 assembly polls, leave aside announcing its candidate, the saffron party has failed to project any prospective candidates either, leaving party workers confused and agitated.

 “The feeling among party workers is that the leadership has failed to select a formidable candidate to contest against Margao MLA, Digambar Kamat, despite the party standing a good chance at victory this time. The best time to defeat Digambar was during the 2005 by-elections when he deserted the BJP and joined the Congress, the second best time was now. But the party seems to have blundered in making most of the opportunity by failing to scout for a suitable candidate. It’s embarrassing to say the least,” a veteran party worker and a familiar face on the political scene of Margao, told TOI, preferring anonymity.
 
 Once considered to be the bastion of the BJP with Kamat having got elected on the BJP ticket from this constituency for three consecutive terms since 1994, the saffron party’s fortunes declined dramatically after Kamat switched over to Congress in 2005. 
 
 Less than a year ago, the party managers were confident of scripting a victory in Margao in the 2017 polls. While Vinay Tendulkar talked of winning 26 seats in the next assembly elections soon after he got elected for the second term as the party’s state president last year, defence minister   stressed that Margao would certainly be among the seats in the party’s kitty in 2017. Party spokesmen would repeatedly toe this line, stressing that the party was working on some “secret strategy” to engineer a victory in Margao by fielding a new face.
 
 With elections staring in the face, the party’s “new face”, however, is yet to appear on the political sphere in Margao, thereby bringing in a sense of scepticism among party workers. 
 
 Sources within the BJP Margao mandal though defend the delay in making known the party’s choice of candidate by pointing to the intra-party rivalry in the constituency. 
 
 “ The party leaders have completely failed in curbing the factionalism within the party in Margao. Given this situation, the party leaders may have decided to keep the party’s choice of candidate under wraps with a view to stem any rebellion,” a senior party worker said. 
 
 What lends credence to this view is the fact that Parrikar, while addressing BJP’s Vijay Sankalp rally at Margao recently had, in a clear admission that a divided house was preventing the BJP from securing the Margao assembly seat, publicly told off the local leadership to sink their differences and work unitedly for the chosen candidate.
 
 Political observers also attribute the perceived difficulty faced by BJP in choosing its Margao candidate to its inability in widening its search parameters.
 
 “Margao has, over the years, seen candidates belonging only to Saraswat community getting elected from Margao. Instead, the BJP should have looked for candidates who have the ability to pull votes from all communities, including the Saraswats,” a political commentator remarked, wishing anonymity.
 
 A telling remark by a senior partyman sums up the mood prevalent in a dominant section of the party workers in Margao – “The BJP appears to be going into the February 2017 elections with just 39 seats on its mind. Is it premature surrender? I hope I am proved wrong.”
 
 
