NEW DELHI: Disgruntled BJP MP   might have breached the party's leadership's patience when he came out with a flurry of tweets in support of Delhi CM   and RJD chief Lalu Prasad -two leaders under attack by BJP for alleged corruption.

 Senior BJP leader from Bihar Sushil Kumar   slammed the   MP as a “gaddar (traitor)“ and sought his immediate expulsion from the party , dropping hints that the top brass's tolerance of Sinha's frequent tantrums was being severely tested.
 
 Sinha tweeted in defence of Kejriwal and Lalu even as BJP has launched a campaign against the two opposition leaders over allegations of graft. Sushil Modi has held a series of press conferences accusing Lalu of acquiring benami property .Kejriwal is embroiled in a bitter legal battle with finance minister Arun Jaitley in a defamation case and has riled BJP with his sharp attacks on PM Narendra Modi.
 
 Sinha's stance irked BJP leaders as they have planned a state-wide campaign in Bihar against “benami“ properties of Lalu and his family. Moreover, the BJP office in Patna was vandalised by RJD supporters recently after allegations against Lalu and his family surfaced.
 
 Sinha has been sulking at the party leadership ignoring him in the ministerial selections after the   polls and his diminution in the organisation as well. By hailing leaders who are at daggers drawn with BJP , he offered plenty of provocation though he has insisted he was loyal to the party.
 
 “Enough is enough... There is no question of leniency against someone (Sinha) who has been speaking against the party for the past one-and-ahalf years,“ said a BJP leader, suggesting the actor-turnedpolitician be expelled. He said BJP leaders were looking for a way to get rid of Sinha, who seems to be provoking the party to expel him so that he can retain his Lok Sabha seat.
 
 “Jis Lalu ki benami sampati ke bachao mein Nitish nahi utare, uske bachao mein Bhajpa ke Shatru kood pade (Nitish avoided supporting Lalu in benami properties but BJP's Shatru has jumped to his defence),“ tweeted Modi.“Ye jaroori nahi jo shakhs mashoor hai, uspar aitbar kiya jaye, jitni jaldi ho ghar ke gaddaro ko baahar kiya jaye (It is not essential to trust someone who is famous, traitors in the party should be expelled soon),“ he followed up. Sinha sarcastically shot back and urged the PM and BJP president Amit Shah to take action against Sushil Modi.“Hope wish and pray that our dashing, dynamic action hero PM and our hon'ble president of BJP will take notice of such unparliamentary utterances of some of our party people, that too against a party colleague and a staunch party loyalist,“ Sinha tweeted.
 
 Sushil Modi reverted with another tweet, saying BJP had formed the government in Bihar even as Sinha had boycotted the campaign.
 
 This is not the first time that Sinha has dallied with Kejriwal, having met him in the past. “Individually I hold all leaders, especially Kejriwal, in high esteem for their credibility , struggle and commitment,“ he had said earlier.
 
 RJD's   tweeted, “How can someone call himself `sushil (gentle)', who calls you `shatru (enemy)? He (Modi) is master of telling lies in all colours... He has problems with elected representatives like you (Sinha), MP   and many more in BJP .“
 
 
