NOIDA: The case of Pravish Chanam’s disappearance from the district hospital, followed by his death, has triggered a   between the police and the district   authorities.

 While the hospital has denied any negligence on its part saying that it had informed the police about the disappearance of the 22-year-old youth from Manipur, police said that the hospital informed about the youth after he left and not at the time of his admission.
 
 Chanam, who was allegedly drunk, was found unconscious at 9.30 pm at a music concert after which he was admitted to the district hospital around 10.30 pm.
 
 As per hospital records, he was admitted there by the event organiser of a music concert at the India Exposition Mart which he had gone to attend.
 
 CCTV footage recovered by police from the hospital premises shows that Chanam had slipped out of the hospital at 6.30 am without informing anyone. At 5 pm, his body was found near the car market in Nithari area, a few meters away from the district hospital. He was cremated by Sector 20 police without informing his parents on September 10.
 
 “When the patient was admitted to the hospital, we examined him, completed the medico-legal procedure and informed Sector 20 police station in the night itself. There might have been some delay in informing the police, but information had gone from the hospital,” Dr Prashant Singh, the doctor who was on emergency duty on the night of September 8, told TOI.
 
 Anil Shahi, SHO, Sector 20, however said that the information about the youth came after he had already left the hospital premises.
 
 “We were informed about the youth’s admission after he left,” he said.
 
 While the hospital authorities have claimed negligence on the part of the police, some insiders say that it is not possible to keep a tab on the patients, many of whom leave their bed to wander outside the hospital and return.
 
 The incident has revealed how the authorities are negligent in keeping a track of the patients in   of the over-burdened 70-bedded hospital.
 
 Hospital authorities point to a 65-year-old woman, Uma, who was admitted to the emergency ward on September 4 by one Amit Kumar. “No one from the police has turned up to see her and take note of the case despite five-six reminders from our side. The police should have spread a word about her but so far, nothing has happened. She is lying in one of the bed’s without anyone bothering,” said Renu Agrawal, acting chief medical superintendent.
 
 On Saturday, a three-four months old foetus was found inside a washroom of the hospital. The hospital informed the Sector 20 police station about the case. “We have no information about any 65-year-old woman. As far as the foetus is concerned, we will examine CCTV footage to check who it same in the washroom,” Shahi said.
 
 
