MUMBAI:   Industries Tuesday signed contracts with eight franchise owners, including actor Harman Baweja, actor producer Sachiin Joshi and a few companies, ahead of the debut season of the Indian Poker League.
 
  Team owners will pay Rs 50 lakh as a onetime franchise fee, and Rs 50 lakh per year as  . “The business model is such that many of them will achieve breakeven in the first year itself,” Kundra, chairman and managing director of Viaan Industries, said after the deals were signed.
  
  Match IPL is not first poker league and ET had first reported about Poker Sports League (PSL), launched by Amit Burman of Dabur. However, Match IPL is the first Indian poker tournament to get associated with the International Federation of Poker (IFP), the governing body of the poker sporting discipline.
  
  “India never had a structured poker tournament. What we are bringing is a skill-based team sport. There is no luck or gambling. The winners will get to represent India in the  ,” Kundra added.
  
  Match IPL has roped in   as the broadcast partner for the event. The winners will get Rs 1.5 crore, while the first- and second runner-ups will get Rs 1 crore and Rs 50 lakh, respectively. In India, poker is a niche sport. According to various estimates, about 1.5 million Indians play poker. All teams in Match IPL will have eight players each.
  
  Team owners include: Yatin Gupta (owner of Network Transport Corporation) - Ahmedabad Hearts;   (Woodlands Housing) - Bangalore Royals; consortium of Abhishek Khaitan, Ankur Sachdeva (Radico Khaitan), Rajnish Gupta (Varun Beverages), Rajat Sikka (Saivana Exports) and Shantanu Dalmia (Casewell Drilling) – Delhi Aces; Sachiin Joshi (Viiking Ventures, King’s Beer), Manesh & Moksh Sani (Living Liquidz), Sunil & Jeetu Ajbani (Deluxe Veneers) – Goa King’s; Aditya and Praveen Agarwal – Jaipur Jewels; Sunny Karira (Park Street Privilege Club) – Kolkata Diamonds; Harman Baweja (actor) and Muizz Khan (Kashid Group) – Mumbai All Stars; and Amit Bhardwaj (author) – Pune Knights.
