NEW DELHI: Running   from a   proved costly for a Delhi businessman who landed up in   as the Supreme Court has awarded him ten days imprisonment for defying its 2004   to shift out factories from residential areas.

 A bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and justice D Y Chandrachud convicted Sanjay Gupta for contempt of court for “consciously and deliberately” disobeying the direction of the court to shut down all industrial and commercial units operating from residential areas. The court also directed him to pay a fine at the rate of Rs 10,000 per month since October 2004 when the court had passed the order to seal all such illegal units.
 
 Gupta was running three industrial units from residential area Barwala village in northwest Delhi and his premises were sealed after the apex court order in 2004. He, however, had assured the court to shift out of his business and SC had directed the civic authority to deseal his premises.
 
 Instead of honouring his undertaking, Gupta continued to operate his factories from that place for more than a decade. The apex court initiated the proceedings against him after a group of villagers from that area filed a petition in court against him for violating court’s order.
 
 Advocate Sanchar Anand, appearing for the villagers, contended that the Gupta continued to run his industrial activities soon after he had given an undertaking before SC and the civic authorities had failed to take action against him despite repeated complaints.
 
 Defending himself, the businessman told the bench that he could not find any alternate premises to shift his business, a dal mill. Justifying his illegal action to run industrial units, he said that he was “persuaded” to carry on his business in public interest as there was shortfall of pulses in the market.
 
 The bench, however, was not convinced with his excuses and sent him behind bars for ten days.
 
 “The contemnor, continued to violate the directions, and overlook the undertaking given to this court in October, 2004, till he was again caught committing the breach in March, 2015, by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. There can be no doubt, that he, by his above acts of omission and commission, has committed contempt of this Court,” it said.
 
 
