PATIALA: Undeterred by the change in venue and imposition of Section 144 of CrPC, which was enforced in the district, a large number of farmers on Friday assembled at   grain market on the outskirts of Patiala and started their five-day protest in support of their demands.

 The farmers had on Thursday evening agreed to shift their protest venue from outside the private residence of chief minister   to Mehmadpur grain market, about 14km from the district headquarters, where preparations for the protest started in the morning.
 
 The gathering gained strength by the afternoon as a number of farmer leaders, who had managed to elude police crackdown, reached the protest site and started addressing the gathering. As per an estimate, around 5,000 farmers had gathered by Friday evening and another 10,000 were expected to join the protest by Saturday morning.
 
 Farmers arrived at the protest site in tractor-trailers, trucks and other modes of transportation. They brought along utensils and stoves to run community kitchens, which would be feeding the large assembly. Arrangement for water and sanitation had been made by the district administration.
 
 The farmer leaders, who addressed the gathering, said despite repeated promises made by the Punjab government, an effective formula for complete farm debt waiver had not yet been evolved and farmer suicides continued unabated in the state.
 
 Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill said all political parties were using the Punjab farm crisis to further their own political interests without showing any concerns or finding a lasting solution to the problem.
 
 The farmer leaders also expressed anguish against a series of orders passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and strict imposition of these by the state government to check burning of crop stubble. These leaders said the state government was trying to force   orders on the farmers in an attempt to check rising pollution while the fact remained that most of the pollution was being caused by huge industries, thermal plants and bricks kilns.
 
 BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Joginder Singh said a bonus of Rs 200 per acre should be given to the farmers if the government was really serious to curtail stubble burning in Punjab as getting rid of the crop residue put a financial burden on the cultivators.
 
 The farmers also demanded that the state government should immediately issue a notification to nullify the validity of bank cheques, agreements and property documents that were lying in possession of commission agents from whom the farmers had taken loans. This was necessary to check farmer suicides, said Joginder.
 
 Meanwhile, the security agencies remained on their in view of the five-day farmers’ protest. A large number of policemen were deployed at the protest venue along with fire tenders, riot control vehicles and mobile surveillance vans to keep round-the-clock vigil. Senior police officials, including Patiala range IGP A S  , visited the site to review the arrangements.
 
