Jaipur: In a major reformatory move, the state government has introduced workbook or learning material for Aanganwadi centres which is also known as pre-schools run by the department of women and child development. 

 These centres have been renamed as Aangwandi Pathshalas with effect from March 30. Rajasthan has 61,000 such centres which has the responsibility to prepare over 15 lakh students in the age group of 3-6 years for Class I.
 
 The workbook is divided into three stages: Kilkari (3 to 4 years), Umang (4 to 5 years) and Tarang (5-6 years). All three books are in friendlier child pedagogy with images, illustrations, puzzles, cross sections, space for colouring. Every book is so interconnected that looks like an an extension of previous book. 
 
 The Kilkari is a visual heavy book with emphasis on exposing students on images and illustrations on themes like family, vegetables, plants, food, water, festivals, weather, traffic and good habits. The second phased book—Umang moves to the alphabets both Hindi and English along with numeric. Along with the detailed account of themes used in the first book. 
 
 While the third book has pictures of currency notes in all denominations from Rs 1 to Rs 2,000 along with a detailed account of weather conditions, causes of pollution. Even a page on traffic rules and reading time has amazed the experts who has claimed that if the content is far better than the Class I and II.
 
 Minister of state women and child development, Anita Bhadel in a press meet on Tuesday, said, “The role of these pathshalas is to elevate the learning outcomes in the pre-classes so that a child easily understands the Class I syllabus. This reformatory change will lay the strong foundation of students leading to good academic performance and minimizing the drop-outs.”
 
 She informed that this year state has passed the budget of Rs 40 crore for development of AC. For the first time these centres will see the facilities like Table-Chairs, green board, display board etc. These pathshalas will also have a monthly parent-teacher meeting in a bid to engage the participation of communities.
 
 
