NEW DELHI: The file on the Delhi government's proposal to slash DTC bus fares by 75% has been returned by the new lieutenant governor, Anil  .

 The decision to bring down the fare to Rs 5 for non AC buses and Rs 10 for AC buses had been announced by Delhi transport minister Satyendar Jain in December and the file sent to the   for approval earlier last week. It was returned on Wednesday -the first major proposal of the AAP government to be sent back by Baijal -for reconsideration. He sent a note asking the government to have a second look at the proposal.
 
 Sources said the step, announced to encourage public transport and curb pollution, had earlier been vetoed by the city government's finance department.“The minister (Jain), however, was very keen and sent it to the LG despite objections from the finance department,“ said an official. The finance department had reportedly questioned the assertion that with fares being reduced,   (DTC) would get more commuters. “The department felt low fares would not translate into more commuters besides resulting in huge losses for the already debt-ridden state bus service,“ said the official.
 
 An official at the LG's office confirmed that the file had been returned, refusing to give more details.
 
 The proposal was estimated to cost DTC over Rs 50 crore and was to be initially implemented for the month of January . DTC has around 4,000 buses in its fleet and runs over 3,700 buses daily . Also, a committee had been formed to examine if the fare of the 8,000 RTVs running in the city could be subsidised by the government because the operators were afraid of a slump in business if DTC fares were slashed.
 
 The concerned departments in the government recommended induction of more buses into the fleet before undertaking such an exercise, said the official. DTC has a daily ridership of 35.37 lakh.“Those travelling by twowheelers or cars are unlikely to shift to buses even with the fares being slashed if the frequency is not increased,“ said an official.
 
 
