BHAGALPUR: Chief minister (CM)   on Thursday said the state government would soon accord ‘nagar parishad’ status to Banka. He instructed the officials concerned to start the process of upgrading   nagar panchayat into a nagar parishad.

 The CM was addressing a ‘Chetna Sabha’ as part of his ‘Nishchay Yatra’ at   ground in Banka. Earlier, the CM visited Sinheshwar village under Kudro panchayat in Bounsi block and reviewed the progress made in his ‘Saat Nishchay’ programme in the district. Declaring the Kudro panchayat as open defecation free, the CM said while the Centre is talking about ‘smart cities’, the state government is making ‘smart villages’. 
 
 Referring to his ‘Saat Nishchay (seven resolves)’, the CM said the government would make youths self-reliant through education, skill development, education loan, besides providing electricity connection to all villages, piped water supply to every household and road and drainage in urban areas.
 
 Asserting that Bihar’s grievance redressal law, first of its kind in the country, had strengthened good governance, the CM said more than 89,937 complaints had been sorted out under the mechanism in nearly seven months of its launch. Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Act was enacted on June 5, 2016, the day ‘Loknayak’ Jayprakash Narayan started the ‘total revolution’ in 1974.
 
 “In a short period, since its launch in June, over 1,13,116 complaints were registered under the Act, out of which 89,937 have been redressed,” he said highlighting the results of the legislation brought by his government to enhance public faith in democracy. “It is a step forward of the   that he ran for 10 years after assuming power for the first time in 2005,” the CM said.
 
 The CM, who has been moving across the state as part of ‘Nishchay Yatra’ started on November 9 last to take stock of functioning of such centres and other institutions established for implementation of programmes under “seven resolves”, narrated a few cases resolved under the Act in different places.
 
 In Katihar, a man, who was not getting paper of land receipt since 1980, was now receiving it regularly after he made a plea, the CM said narrating tales of success of the legislation.
 
 In Munger, a widow was not getting the money of her husband transferred to her account after his death. When she filed a complaint with the Centre, bank officials transferred the money to her before coming on the date, he said.
 
 Dwelling in details on prohibition, he listed advantages of stopping sale and trade of liquor, domestic as well IMFL which has triggered spike in sale of milk, sweets, ready-made clothes and sewing machines among others out of money saved from alcohol.
 
 He exhorted people to participate in the human chain on January 21 to reaffirm commitment towards prohibition.
 
 During his daylong tour of the district, the CM also inaugurated the general nursing and midwifery (GNM) college at the Sadar hospital in Banka besides reviewing the functioning of Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Cell.
 
