Teenage mind is a strong force of nature. It can catapult into dangerous emotional outlets if left on its own. So here’s a crash course for parents to develop a deeper understanding of the teenage mind…

 Teens display emotions that can leave anyone perplexed and you will find teen parents talk about it all the time. Even a minor annoyance can whirlwind into an emotional tsunami, knocking everything out of balance. This often catches parents off guard.
 
 It’s not that parents and their teens can’t communicate. But bridging this gap can get challenging at times. When parents try to help – while sometimes they will know what is expected, other times they are left to recognize the nature (and intensity) of the situation and respond accordingly. Whether or not their teens will open up the next time depends majorly on how they handle these untoward situations. Mind you, if you continue to fall short of their expectations, by the time these kids recover from their tough teen years, they’d have already drawn lines, too hard to wash off.
 
 
 
 A recent case where a couple of boys locked the school washroom and recorded (and applauded) bullying of a boy via Snapchat, left many aghast and wondering – what goes on inside the teen brain? No one in that group flinched seeing the plight of the boy. However, along with condoning this erratic behavior, it is also extremely important for us to understand the reason behind this behavior.
 
 Psychologists say that teenage mind is fashioned differently. It is indeed one of the most unique and terrifying phases of growing up. They get easily flustered with situations, people and themselves, because they are trying to fit in a lot of things together. This is how many succumb to dangerous and fatal online games like Blue Whale. Celebrity psychologist Seema Hingoranny shares a dangerous trend, “The teenage brain is always craving for stimulation and their mind gets a lot of it through video games. I get so many parents bring their teen to me who are suffering from video game addiction.” And the lurking danger that many parents tend to ignore is that teenage brains find it tough to put reality from ‘reel'ty.
 
 
 
 Recently at a session, leading psychologist Achal Bhagat asked a couple of   how they differentiated between violence in video games and in real life. He explains, “It is strange and disturbing that for teens today, non-violence is kind of irrelevant. They confessed that for them it’s ‘tooth for a tooth’. If someone tries to hurt them, they want to instinctively hurt them back. This is primarily because their minds are impulsive and they take decisions on a more functional basis than rational.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 A recent study published in the Berlin’s Max Planck Institute stated that teenage brains (13-17 years) undergo the same rewiring as they did during their toddler years. Their brain is often compared to that of a driver who knows how to drive but doesn’t know how the brake functions.
 
 
 
 
 This irrationality of teenagers makes it highly significant for parents to know how to respond to their behavior.
 
 First up, patience is the key. Reacting and alienating the child will only distance parents from their teens. The focus should be to stay close to them, regardless of how much they try to push you away.
 
 
 
 Most parents feel that their teens want to be less around them but the biggest mistake they make is that of letting them go on with it. Mind you, this growing distance at a time when they are most vulnerable to bullying, heart breaks, depression, substance abuse, eating disorder and online scams, will make you dangerously distant, fragile to handle any debilitating situation where they will need you. If you spend less time with them, they will feel more like outsiders, which will adversely affect their behavior towards you. If you have allowed this wall to build, demolish it now. Spend more time together, find similar interests - simply find ways to spend more time together. But make sure you do not use that time to grill them on any lurking issue.
 
 Sometimes, with their irrational behavior, it is easy to assume that they don’t care, but in reality, this is their defense mechanism.
 Don't ever ask ‘what's wrong with them' as it sends out a message that you feel there is something wrong with them. It spirals into negative self-talk. Instead try to understand their side of story without jumping to judgments.
 
 Do not always take their outbursts too personally. Their brains haven’t yet developed the virtue of patience and so they take actions on the basis of how they are feeling that very minute, without considering its consequences. Their nerve connections that help them with decision-making are under developed.
 
 If lack of brain development was not enough, teenage is also the part of life when kids are more prone to mental disorders. If you see them isolating themselves, losing interest in activities, or gain/lose weight, you could be looking at the first signs of a deeper darker problem. So stay connected …
 
 
