NEW DELHI: A condemned prisoner's proficiency in Gandhian thoughts, drawing and painting skills and acquisition of a pre-bachelor degree in jail while awaiting execution failed to convince the   on Wednesday about his reformation to spare him the gallows. 

 Facing death penalty for raping and brutally murdering his friend's four year-old daughter, the man could delay his execution by two and half years by requesting the   to review the capital punishment saying he was on the path to reformation having acquired proficiency in Gandhian thoughts while in jail.
 
 Nine years ago on April 3, 2008, Vasanta Sampat Dupare had lured the child with chocolates, raped her at an isolated place and battered her to death with a stone in Wadi police station area of Nagpur. He was sentenced to death by the trial court in 2012 and it was confirmed by Bombay HC. 
 
 SC had on November 26, 2014, affirmed death sentence finding it to be a 'rarest of rare' category case. It had said: "The injuries caused on the minor girl are likely to send a chill in the spine of the society and shiver in the marrows of human conscience. He had battered her to death by assaulting her with two heavy stones... After the savage act was over, the coolness of the appellant is evident, for he washed the clothes on the tap and took proper care to hide things.. The criminality of the conduct of the appellant is not only depraved and debased, but can have a menacing effect on the society. It is calamitous."
 
 Appearing for Dupare, senior advocate  , assisted by   of NLU-Delhi's Death Penalty Litigation Clinic, attempted to show to a bench of Justices  , R F Nariman and U U Lalit that the man, who had dropped out of school, has made serious attempt in jail to resume studies and got through examinations to prepare for a bachelors-level course.
 
 "Dupare in 2015 also successfully completed the Gandhi Vichar Pariksha (Examination on Gandhian Thoughts). This examination seeks to rehabilitate prisoners who have committed violent crimes, by learning from the life and teaching of M K Gandhi," Bhambani said.
 
 "During the period of incarceration, Dupare has undertaken studies, art competitions as well as several programmes aimed at reforming himself," the advocate further said.
 
 The petitioner's drawings are exhibited in jail and he has participated in several drawing competitions," he said. Finally, he argued that the accused did not get adequate opportunity to present his arguments on the quantum of sentence before the trial court, which awarded death sentence two hours after convicting him of rape-murder.
 
 The bench was unimpressed. It said: "We have given anxious consideration to the material on record but find that the aggravating circumstances namely the extreme depravity and the barbaric manner in which the crime was committed and the fact that the victim was a helpless girl of four years clearly outweigh the mitigating circumstances now brought on record."
 
 "Having taken an overall view of the matter, in our considered view, no case is made out to take a different view in the matter," the bench said re-affirming the award of death penalty on Dupare.
 
 
