 
As most of the Mumbaikars were emerging from their slumber, 600 women participants of Times Women’s Drive gathered at The flag off event at Rising City, PWD Grounds, Ghatkopar – Mankhurd Link Road, Chembur to participate in the world’s largest and possibly the longest car rally. The seventh edition of Times Women’s Drive (TWD), witnessed an enthusiastic participation from 1350 plus women who drove to Goa from Mumbai, Pune and Bangalore to celebrate the spirit of womanhood. All participants displayed great passion as they decorated their cars in innovative themes. The flag off event witnessed women parading their 4 wheel beauties decked with social messages on diverse social issues with great élan. 
  
 In Mumbai, the flag off event was a star-studded affair with   celebrities like  , Sagarika Ghatge and   flagged off cars and motivated participants. The first car to roll out was the Rosy car driven by actress Sagarika Ghatge. In all 200 cars were flagged of from Mumbai and 150 cars from Pune and 100 cars from Bangalore. 1350 participants dressed in exclusively designed Times Women’s Drive T shirts were seen driving a range of cars to compete and raise awareness for a social cause. 
  
 Participants will reach picturesque beach destination of Ganapatipule at the end of their first day. This will be a two day car rally following the rules set by Indian Automotive Racing Club (IARC) on the 636 km stretch with the help of a tulip chart. The drive was organized in Time-Distance-Speed format (TDS). 
  
 Times Women’s Drive has grown bigger, setting new milestones with each passing year. This year the participants collectively polled a record 30 lakh votes from their acquaintances from over 100 countries to get themselves selected for the drive. The drive has emerged as a platform for the modern Indian women to show their indomitable spirit by taking up new challenges and boldly display their concerns on issues affecting women. This drive had set a new Guinness World Record on 22nd February 2014 for most female participants in motorsport event with 934 participants. This year the drive has been made more challenging by increasing the distance and making it a two day drive. These new challenged did not deter the participants but further strengthened their resolve. 
  
 The drive will culminate on March 6th 2016 at Goa. This year the entire judging process is digitized so that the results will be known on a real time basis. The participants are showered with prizes in this edition with first team prize worth Rs.454,500, second team prize worth Rs.330,000 and third team prize worth Rs.226,000. This is not all, there are several interesting contest which gives ample opportunity to each participant to win exiting prizes. Each participants stands a chance to win prize for ‘Best Dressed Team’ Rs.30,000, ‘Best Decorated Car’ Rs.30,000, ‘Most Social Active Team’ Rs.30,000, ‘Best Social Message’ Rs.25,000, ‘Best Creative Group-fie’ Rs.44,000 and ‘Best Team Name’ Rs.44,000, ‘Most Fashionable Woman’, ‘Rs.28,000 and ‘Best Makeup’ Rs.4000 
  
 TWD stands for the true spirit of women today that represents confident, independent, and enterprising with a penchant for social causes. Women from all walks of life – home makers, Navy officers, police force, corporate women, cancer survivors, NGO’s participated in this drive making at an all-inclusive drive. 
  
 Times Women’s Drive is supported by Mercedes Benz, Mount Litera, Rising City, Goldilocks, Dr. Aeroguard, Asian Paints, GO Cheese, Vijay Sales, Four Fountains De-Stress Spa, New India Assurance, Chambor, Ocean, HPCL and Zuri White Sands. This is an initiative by Times IBCE. 
  
 For further information, please contact 
  
 Anand Iyer 
 Deputy Chief Manager 
 Integrated Brand Communication & Experiences (IBCE) 
 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. (The Times of India Group) 
 Mobile: 98671 69672 
 Email: 
  
 
 
  
  
  Press Release by Integrated Brand Communications & Experinces via Brandwire.in
