KOLKATA: The vice-chancellor's office at   has received a verbal complaint from a group of students, alleging moral policing and anti-Romeo squad-like vigilantism on the campus. VC   would address the allegation on Friday, a source in the V-C's office said on Thursday.

 “Some students approached the VC, complaining against moral policing on the campus. Some of them were apparently told by a few not to behave in a particular manner because it was against the Indian culture,“ said the source. “The VC will speak to the comp lainants and accused on Friday.“
 
 The allegation of moral policing at JU--the university is known to fight for the cause of liberty and democratic rights--has kicked up a storm both on the campus as well as the virtual world, with students both past and present flaying the “vigilantism“, something unheard of even a couple of years ago.
 
 In fact, the allegation came within a month of the formation of anti-Romeo squads in Uttar Pradesh after BJP came to power there; the squads were formed apparently to crack down on those harassing women. Comprising cops in uniform as well as plain clothes, the groups now act as the moral police, rounding up and fining couples, a move described as nothing but harassment by many.
 
 TOI spoke to one of the students, who along with his girlfriend, fell victim. According to him, he was sitting near the jheel with the girl, when a group of men app roached them and told them to leave, besides abusing them. The student could not identify the group but he said they spoke in a mix of Hindi and Bengali. “I was sitting near the jheel with my girlfriend when a few men arrived and started asking me strange questions. I did not know any of them but they said they were from the engineering department. They told us to leave because it was against `our culture' to mingle in that manner. When we protested vehemently, more men joined in but we did not buckle to their pressure. Some of them were speaking in Bengali and others, in Hindi. They started abusing us. They left after some time but we continued sitting there. When I told my friends about this later, some of them admitted it had happened to them as well,“ said the student. He has lodged a complaint with the registrar and the vice-chancellor. “The VC has said that he would schedule a meeting next week,“ he added. Calls to the representatives of the engineering department went answered.
 
 Another student from JU, Arnab Mondal, also posted his ordeal on the social networking site.
 
 Students on the campus were appalled. “This has never happened on our campus. When I heard about it, I was shocked. If we do not stop this immediately , it will infringe on our rights,“ said  , a first-year student.
 
 Even the social media was abuzz with indignation.   wrote: “Just can't believe that it happened in JU. Dark times. Darker ahead.“ Soumik Das wrote: “People fighting on the road, in a market. Everybody is OK with it. We love violence. We hate love.“   reacted: “What? This really happened? I thought the campus was the least place where we could be ourselves and not be judged by the clothes we wear and who we be with. The safe haven not so safe anymore.“
 
