BHAVNAGAR: A tempo loaded with tomato baskets enters a government primary school in Nari village. After baskets are unloaded and lined up, all school children line up with plates and are served the fruits that they relish during the lunch break!. 

 This is the scene in several schools across Saurashtra that have come to the rescue of farmers, who dumping their entire tomato produce due to poor returns following a record glut in the crop. The schools are organizing what they call ‘tomato festival’ once a week and procure them in bulk from farmers. As as result, tomatoes that would have otherwise gone down the drain are instead turning into nutritious supplements for hundreds of kids. 
 
 “We learnt that tomato growers are in great distress. On one side, farmers are destroying their produce and on the other, children in village schools are not getting important nutrients. So, we approached the farmers and purchased 140 kg for a feast and celebrated tomato festival in school,” said  , principal, Nari primary school.
 
 “On learning about the noble cause, the tempo driver, who transported tomatoes from 40 km away, did not even charge us,,” said Purohit said.
 
 Following a bumper crop, the wholesale prices of tomatoes have fallen to less than Rs one per kg as compared to Rs 4 to Rs 5 last year. The retail prices are also not picking up, yielding peanuts to farmers. 
 
 As many as 33 village primary schools in Visavadar taluka of   district took a cue from Nari and celebrated ‘tomato festivals’ recently. 
 
 “We had ordered 150 kg tomatoes and paid Rs 5 per kg to the farmer. A day before we celebrated this unique festival, we asked the kids to bring salt, jeera powder or other spices they would like to eat with tomatoes. One farmer even told us that he would supply tomatoes free of cost for kids next time as they would get nutrients,” said  , principal,   primary school.
 
 Nalin Pandit, an educationalist based in Bhavnagar, said, “As an experiment, we organized a tomato feast in Shampara primary school near the city. Teachers purchased tomatoes from local Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and organized tomato feasts in schools. The idea was lapped up by many schools who started replicating.”
 
 
