CHANDIGARH: Some   will travel any distance to join the army. On Friday, TOI reported that many of them had falsely shown themselves to be Sikh to join the   

 It has now emerged that some of them transformed themselves into Gujaratis so that they could join recruitment rallies meant for people from PM Narendra Modi's home state. TOI investigations found that as many as 50 boys from Haryana were selected in the army in July 2015 by presenting themselves as   Details of the Rajkot police's investigations, accessed by TOI, revealed that 30 of them have been arrested and 20 are on the run.
 
 Most of them have been identified as residents of Hisar, Jind and Fatehabad in Haryana.
 
 All of them had presented themselves as residents of Kutch in Gujarat and succeeded in getting into the army as infantrymen on Gujarat's quota. The   has been periodically raiding places in Haryana to arrest the remaining 20 boys, most of them are from Hisar.
 
 Inspector H M Gadhvi, in charge of Rajkot crime branch, told TOI that family and relatives of some of the accused had been coming to Mandvi and Naliya tehsils of Kutch for farming. Realising that the army doesn't get as many recruits from Gujarat, the accused projected themselves as residents of Gujarat and appeared for the recruitment rally held at Jamnagar in February 2015.
 
 “Most of them were trying to join the army for several months and had made unsuccessful attempts at recruitment rallies in Haryana," Gadhvi said. “After clearing the tests in Gujarat, they almost joined the training centres until one of them was caught producing a fake domicile certificate.He then told army authorities about the other Haryana recruits as well."
 
  added that the accused had shown correct residence proof as their families live in Gujarat, but the domicile certificates issued from Mandavi and Naliya were forged. Investigations revealed that middlemen had got them fake domicile certificates for a fee. The certificate can be issued to those who are born in Gujarat or have studied and stayed in the state continuously for seven years.
 
