PATNA: The Patna district administration on Thursday conducted a rehearsal of the human chain at  . Students of several private and government schools of the state capital participated in the rehearsal in presence of district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, SSP  , city SP (central) Chandan Kumar Kushwaha and traffic SP Prantosh Kumar Das.

 Auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and schoolteachers also took part in the rehearsal in which a map of Bihar was formed on the ground. Several ANMs, who had come from Digha, Danapur and other localities, had applied ‘mehendi’ with slogans like ‘liquor free Bihar’ and ‘human chain’ written on their palms.
 
 The rehearsal started around 10.30am and continued till 1.30pm after which the students were allowed to go. Later, the DM and other senior officials briefed the magistrates and police personnel on traffic arrangements for January 21. However, no proper arrangement of drinking water and refreshment was made by the district administration for the children. At least three water tankers were spotted inside the ground, but there was no glass. Several students were also visibly annoyed during the event.
 
 “Even drinking water was not served to us,” said Avinash Dubey, coordinator of  , who participated in the rehearsal along with hundreds of students from his school. Aranya Kumari, a Class IX student of Bankipur Girl’s High School, said they stood in queue for several hours without water.
 
 Meanwhile, a separate traffic arrangement will be in place in the city between 10am and 2.30pm on January 21.
 
 Four human chains would originate from Gandhi Maidan on January 21. The first chain would start from gate number one and move towards Ara via Dakbunglow roundabout,   Golambar, Saguna Mor, Bihta and Koelwar Bridge. The second chain will start from gate number seven and touch Deedarganj via Kargil Chowk, Sultanganj and Alamganj.
 
 The third chain would start from gate number five and move towards Rajapur Pul, Mainpura and Digha before merging with the first chain at Ara Golambar.
 
 The fourth and last human chain would start from gate number ten and move towards Gandhi Setu via Exhibition Road flyover, old bypass road and Dhunki Mor.
 
 
