KOHIMA: In a major development, the   on Tuesday ruled that municipalities and town councils in   should   of their seats for women. 

 The judgement came in response to a petition filed by a Naga woman who accused 'extra-constitutional bodies opposed to the election' of trying to prevent free and fair polls in the state. Several Naga civil groups had opposed reservation for women saying it would infringe on Naga customary laws and tradition as enshrined in the Constitution.
 
 "We are prima facie convinced that elections to constitute municipal councils and town councils in Nagaland with 33% reservation of seats for women should be held freely and fairly," the judgement, passed on Tuesday morning by chief justice Ajit Singh and justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua, said. 
 
 The court went on to direct the state government 'to ensure that the election is held freely and fairly and, if necessary, adequate security provided to candidates and voters'.
 
 Twelve town councils of the state will vote on Wednesday. The State Election Commission (SEC), in a notification, said elections would take place in Peren, Jalukie, Tening, Aboi, Tobu, Tizit, Naginimora, Shamator, Noklak, Pungro, Longkhim and Longleng town councils.
 
 The SEC also said elections to one municipality and six town councils - Dimapur municipal council and East Dimapur, Kiphire, Tseminyu, Bhandari, Wokha and Zunheboto town councils - had been postponed by two months due to security concerns.
 
 "Considering the fluid situation in several towns and municipal areas, the cabinet wrote to the SEC seeking postponement of polls to seven municipality and town councils," a release issued by the chief minister's office said.
 
 In three town councils - Meluri, Phek and Tuli - candidates have won unopposed while in ten municipalities and town councils - Kohima, Mokokchung, Pfutsero, Chozouba, Changtongnya, Mangkolemba, Tuensang, Mon, Medziphema and Chumukedima - candidates could not file nominations and hence no polls will be held yet.
 
