PUNE: People in the city have become accustomed to being greeted by “out of cash” boards outside ATMs. Those in desperate need of cash have to either stand in a queue at a   to withdraw cash or knock on at least five-six ATMs before they can find cash.

 The “out of cash” situation quite often forces people to go to ATMs of non-home banks to withdraw cash. In this entire melee, many may miss the silent transaction fees banks levy for using ATMs of other banks. This charge ranges between Rs 18-20 per transaction for using other bank’s ATM beyond the specified number of transactions.
 
 ToI checked over 40 ATMs on Wednesday evening and Thursday in different parts of the city, out of which only 5 were found to be working.
 
 “The government has taken us for a ride. If it was serious about solving the problem, it would have done so by now,” said Mahendra Sawant, who ran around several ATMs in Pimpri only to return empty handed. When he approached the State Bank of India branch in  , he was deterred by the sight of a huge queue.
 
 Many people are also angry because of the sheer insensitiveness of a few bank officials. “All ATMs of ICICI and HDFC banks in Kalyaninagar and Ahmednagar Road have no cash. Again if one we were to withdraw cash from these banks using the withdrawal slip, one has to fill a form explaining the reason for doing so. Don't they know that their ATMs do not have enough cash?” said Shilpa, a housewife.
 
 In Pimpri Town, out of the 10 ATMs that ToI checked on Thursday, all had no cash around 2.30 pm on Friday. A cluster of ATMs of ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, HDFC Bank and SBI Bank were all “out of cash”. An ATM van arrived and filled only one of the four re-calibrated cassettes in a few ATMs of Bank of Maharashtra in the Pimprigaon area.
 
 “We have been given cash to fill only one cassette. What can we do,” he asked. Also, only a few ATMs of Pune-based Bank of Maharashtra were found to be working across the city by evening.
 
 Currency chest managers agree that cash runs out of ATMs in a matter of 3-4 hours after they are filled. In areas where only a few ATMs function, the resultant load ensures the run-out rate is much faster.
 
 “All ATMs are  . You please write about this. The poor man, who stood in the queue silently (in November and December), has been taken for a ride,” said painter Nitin Jagtap, who was not able to withdraw his salary deposited on May 10, after checking “8-10 ATMs.”
 
 Currency chest managers say that “the RBI is not co-operating,” and they have to literally use their good offices to convince RBI officials to release cash.
 
 “The RBI says it is not getting enough cash from the printing press. Also, RBI has been issuing a sizeable amount of currency in Rs 10, 20, 50 denomination notes, which nobody wants in branches and we cannot put in ATMs,” said a currency chest manager.
 
 A man, frustrated by unavailability of cash, tried to pelt a stone at the Canara Bank branch in Koregaon Park on Wednesday night but he was stopped by locals.
 
 When asked, he said, “I need to make payments of Rs 1 lakh to vendors. They accept only cash, and for the past two days I have been making rounds of the bank to withdraw money. The branch officials told me that they do not have sufficient cash to give me, nor is there cash in the attached ATM.”
 
 A banker said, “The current situation is akin to the days   We don’t know where so much cash is going.”
 
 (With Inputs from Nisha Nambiar and Abhiskek Samuel)
 
 
