JALANDHAR: At a time when rival candidates contesting   (DSGMC) elections are leaving no chance to attack the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over the issue of Sirsa dera’s support to the party in Punjab assembly polls, SAD’s Delhi unit is trying to keep the focus on local issues of the management and its “achievements” in running the affairs of DSGMC.

 There are also allegations and counter allegations of corruption and misuse of funds too.
 
 Paramjit Singh Sarna-led SAD (Delhi), former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh-led  , former Darbar Sahib Hazoori Ragi Baldev Singh Wadala-led   and Panthak Sewa Dal have been raising the issues of 2015 Bargari sacrilege incident and Sirsa dera’s support to SAD in the recent assembly polls in Punjab.
 
 Trying to put SAD in the dock, supporters of these groups have posted several posts on social media on these issues. Rivals are also keeping Badals the main target during the campaigning.
 
 Meanwhile, most of the senior SAD leaders from Punjab are still absent from campaigning except former   president Bibi Jagir Kaur. As Delhi has a considerable presence of Lubana community to which Bibi belongs, the SAD expects to reap dividends.
 
 Delhi-based leaders of SAD have already conveyed their discomfiture to party’s top brass on the Sirsa dera’s support. Many believe that presence of Punjab leaders may lead to more questions. Pictures of Punjab CM and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal are completely missing from the campaigning and SAD’s Delhi unit and DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK remains the face of the entire campaign for the party.
 
 Though GK and other leaders are not desisting from using strong negative adjectives about   chief to counter the attacks, they are also trying to build their campaign around the local issues and achievements including raising 1984 Sikh Genocide Memorial Wall, installing a statue of Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur and restoring ‘piau’ at Sisganj Gurdwara.
 
 
