VADODARA: They might be burdened with heavy course syllabus at   but majority of the girl students still want to have self-defence techniques added as a special subject at M S University. 

 Not just self-defence but most girls also want to get additional knowledge of financial and home management. A doctoral study has revealed this. 
 
 Dr Arti Bhatti, who has recently finished her PhD, for which she had collected a huge data of 1,510 women students, had pursued the study to know the challenges faced by female students at the university campus. 
 
 Though there has been no major crime against woman on the campus, the girls have faced eve-teasing from a group of ruffians in and around the arts faculty earlier. 
 
 “A majority of girl students – 73 % - felt roaming around alone safe in the university campus and even in the city. Yet, many of them wanted to learn self-defence techniques for which they want the university to introduce it as a special subject,” said Bhatti, who has also received   from Graduate Women International, Geneva, to conduct research on international women students of London. In fact, 74 % of the girl students surveyed felt that home and family management including financial management, self defense techniques, Indian culture and theology should be added as special subjects for women. 
 
 The study also showed that 34% girl students take tuitions to score good marks and nearly 42% want improvement in women toilets and bathrooms.
 
 Bhatti had carried out under the guidance of former dean of MSU’s   and Psychology and ex vice-chancellor of   professor R G Kothari.
 
 “A majority of female students – 84 % - were happy with the university teachers for taking regular classes, completing their syllabus on time and for being co-operative,” said Bhatti, a triple gold medallist.
 
 Nearly one-fifth of the girl students surveyed, admitted that they were facing discrimination, in their families. 
 
 “Nearly 22 % girls surveyed believed that gender discrimination is most common reason for low participation of women in higher education while equal number believed that financial crisis is the reason,” she said. 
 
