KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Friday gave an interim direction to Athletics Federation of India ( ) to ensure the participation of P U Chitra for the 1,500 m race in the IAAF World Championships to be held in London from August 4.

 The single bench directed AFI to make all arrangements to see that Chitra participates in the event, saying that Chitra had been sidelined and discriminated against. “Opportunities of this nature would come in the way of an athlete only once in a lifetime and if they miss the chance, they may not get it again,” the court’s order said.
 
 The petitioner was excluded from the Indian team on the ground that her performance in the national interstate championship held at Guntur was not satisfactory. Chitra in her petition, filed through her counsel Rajit Nayar, said that her exclusion on the above-mentioned ground is arbitrary as athletes who did not participate in the championship at Guntur have been included in the Indian squad. She alleged that the selection procedure was not fair and her exclusion from the Indian squad team is due to extraneous considerations. The court said that in matters relating to selection of the best possible candidates to represent India in international competitions, there cannot be any interference by the courts in selection criteria set down by experts in the field. “But at the same time if it is shown that the discretion has been exercised by the selection body arbitrarily or capriciously, I am of the view that in appropriate cases the court can interfere in the best interests of the athletes and the nation,” the order said. 
 
 The order went on to say: “There were a lot of complaints against the decision of the AFI in excluding an outstanding athlete like the petitioner and two other similarly placed athletes from the Indian team for the IAAF world championships. If the participation in the championship at Guntur was mandatory for participating in the selection process for IAAF world championships, the persons who have not participated in the said championships should not have been selected. Two athletes Swapna Barman and G Lakshmanan who did not participate in the championship at Guntur have been included in the Indian team for the events heptathlon and 10,000 m race.”
 
 The court said that all public bodies must rigorously follow the standards by which it professes its action to be judged and must scrupulously observe those standards. The case has been listed for August 3.
 
 
