NASHIK:   at the Nashik Road   has become a   for the officials and regular commuters as well. 

 Sources said that many motorists leave their vehicles parked at the   railway station, sometimes close to the platforms without any permission. The   not only obstructs the movement of transport vehicles at the railway station, but also poses a threat.
 
 Because of the illegally parked vehicles, the trucks arriving at the parcel godown have to struggle to find way. A large number of transport vehicles arrive daily to either load or unload goods at the parcel department. 
 
 Most of the staff at the parcel department of the   said the situation has been the same for many years now. “People come and leave their vehicles parked here, despite the availability of pay and park system just a few meters away. Transport vehicles coming for loading and unloading goods face a real challenge to make way through these vehicles,” said one of the staffers of the parcel department. 
 
 Railway staff said some vehicles parked near the parcel office appear to be worn out and have some parts missing. “No one has come forward to collect them for years. Given the cases of bombs blasts, the authorities should be more careful,” said another staffer of the railway station.
 
 Senior officials said the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has been taking action from time to time, but the situation has not improved. They claimed that many of the illegally parked vehicles belong to the railway staff. 
 
 The officials said there was a parking system on either side of the railway station, but most do not want to use the pay-and-park facility. Sometimes, two-wheelers can be seen parked on the platform itself. 
 
 Bipin Gandhi of the NGO Rail Parishad said, “On various occasions, we get to see vehicles parked on the platform. It is a serious problem at the Nashik Road railway station. The authorities concerned should be stern against those parking their vehicles illegally.”
 
 This year, Nashik Road railway station has slipped to 169th rank from 6th in Category A railway stations in the country for cleanliness. The station has fetched extremely poor scores (34.53%) vis-a-vis cleanliness in vehicle parking area. Railway sources said their low score in the national survey was mainly because of the illegal parking. 
 
