VADODARA: A city-based energy sector consultant has been arrested in the US on charges of “terrorizing“ after he got into an altercation with the security personnel at the   in North Dakota and then allegedly threatened that he had a “bomb in his bag“.

 Paraman Radhakrishnan, 52, was held on Saturday when he was preparing to return home after a week-long business trip to the US. He checked in for a flight from Grand Forks to Minneapolis, Minnesota where reportedly got into an argument with the security staff. The airport was evacuated and his belongings were thoroughly searched.
 
 Paraman was held at the Grand Forks County Correctional Centre.
 
 Paraman is the director of   which has an office on R C Dutt Road in Alkapuri area. Sources said that he was also an empanelled consultant for International Finance Corporation, World Bank. When contacted, his wife Renu Nair told TOI: “I have no other details to share with the media.“ Renu is an energy economist and head of the firm's business development.
 
 In a series of tweets, Renu has requested Prime Minister   and external affairs minister   to intervene for his release. She has tweeted that her husband was a “simple and honest“ person who has even won a national award for energy conservation.
 
 Swaraj tweeted that she has asked for a report from the Indian ambassador in the Us She has tweeted that her husband was a “simple and honest“ person who has even won a national award for energy conservation.
 
 “He is a thorough gentlemen and he was the brightest in our class. I cannot believe that he can be arrested,“ said Paraman's one-time classmate, who had studied with him at M S University's Faculty of Technology and Engineering from where the former did his bachelors in electrical engineering.
 
 After completing his bachelors in engineering, Paraman, who is a certified energy auditor of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency of Government of India, had completed professional development course in “advanced energy auditing“ from University of Wisconsin, Madison in US.
 
 The firm's office in Alkapuri remained closed on Monday post noon. The firm's official website describes it as one of the oldest energy management consulting firms in the country . “We have undertaken special projects for government agencies like the Bureau of Energy Efficiency , Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency and Petroleum Conservation Research Association,“ it further states.
 
