NEW DELHI: Contrary to its public posturing that   is no longer a challenge in the forthcoming   after the rift within its first family, BJP brass feels CM   has emerged stronger after the crisis, thus posing a formidable threat to the   party’s ambitions of forming the next government in the state.
 
  Till just a couple of months ago, every time SP appeared to be on the brink of a breakup, BJP leadership would be concerned. A direct contest with Mayawati’s BSP does not augur well for BJP’s electoral prospects in India’s most populous and politically significant state. “A very weak SP would   the Muslim vote would shift to   and make BSP almost invincible. Our best hope is a division of Muslim votes and this is possible only in a triangular fight,” a senior BJP leader told ET. The scenario has changed now. The present crisis has helped Akhilesh emerge as a leader in his own right and leave behind all antiincumbency factors, the leader said.
  
  “Akhilesh has not bad-mouthed any SP leader and tried to convince the people that he has been forced to act as he is being conspired against. He has left all the anti-incumbency behind,” the BJP leader said. “Till six months back, Akhilesh was seen as one not in control and leaders like Shivpal and Azam Khan calling the shots. Now, Shivpal can be easily blamed for poor law and order and corruption,” the leader said.
  
  Till the present crisis erupted last week, SP leader Shivpal Yadav was being seen as one having the potential to play spoilsport for Akhilesh by splitting a significant chunk of Yadav votes. But BJP leaders feel he is no longer an important player. “Shivpal was never a mass leader. He was mainly in a managerial role within SP and worked as per the diktats of Mulayam. We feel he may ultimately not split the party and Mulayam may placate him by giving him a Rajya Sabha seat and moving him out of UP politics. His son may be accommodated somewhere to appease him,” a BJP central office-bearer said.
  
  BJP is also of the view that SP will not precipitate the crisis over party’s bicycle symbol if EC suggests that it would have to be frozen. This may lead the two groups to settle for a truce. BJP’s biggest worry now is that Akhilesh will make all efforts to make the assembly elections a presidential one and a referendum on his work.
  
  Since the saffron party is not projecting a CM candidate and there is some disenchantment with the Centre due to lack of delivery on the big promises made, Akhilesh may attract the youth and the urban voters along with SP’s core vote bank of Muslims and Yadavs. The last straw may be a tieup between Congress and SP, and there are indications that Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal may join in too.
  
