NEW DELHI: They seemed blessings in disguise for people stranded in east Delhi and adjoining areas late at night. Travelling in an auto rickshaw, the two women would be ever ready to drop people at their destinations. Of late, they had been picking up people from Anand Vihar and   bus stands and railway stations to drop them at Mayur Vihar and nearby areas.

 But these angels from hell were in fact a gang of robbers whose members included the auto driver and a fourth male associate. Residents of the adjoining area of Trilokpuri, they had chosen Mayur Vihar as their area of operation.
 
 Once a person would board the auto, the women would be joined by another man and they would squeeze themselves in the rear seat. When the auto would cross Akshardham temple, the traveller would be held hostage at knife or gunpoint, robbed and thrown off from the running vehicle near the temple or towards Noida.
 
 Interestingly, the two male gang members were real auto drivers. The accused women, Shabnam and Asifa, are in their late 20s. The men have been identified as Imran (25) and Sanjay alias Gabbar (32).
 
 The gang struck almost every week in January. On January 2, they robbed one Gautam Yadav of Rs 2,000, his ATM cards and mobile phone. On January 9, they had targeted one Kundan Singh near Star City mall and looted around Rs 5,000, his debit cards and mobiles from him. On January 13, they had picked up one Jagat Narain Shukla, who wanted to go to new Ashok Nagar, and dumped him on Noida link road. They had committed two robberies on November 23 and December 24 as well.
 
 Police were able to zero in on the gang with the help of CCTV footages and local intelligence. “Night robberies in autos had created panic in the area, so a special team led by inspectors Vinay Yadav and Deepak Kumar was formed to track the gang. After getting clues from CCTV footages and criminal intelligence, technical surveillance was mounted on the suspects,” said DCP (east) Omvir Singh.
 
 On January 22, sub-inspector Arun Sindhu got a tip-off that the gang members would be in Trilokpuri. They were arrested after a raid and confessed to their crime during interrogation. Robbed articles and the two autos used in the crime have been seized.
 
