NESHTA (AMRITSAR):   through network of worn-out water channels,   have threatened to initiate a statewide movement if the government didn’t ensure   till the tail-end ahead of the  

 During a visit to border areas on Monday, TOI found several water channels having major deposition of silt, weeds and debris with broken sidewalls.
 
 Arjan Sing, a resident of Hoshiarnagar, said, “For the past several years we have not been getting enough irrigation water through these channels, which forces us to draw ground water through tubewells using generators and electricity adding to our input costs. Paddy sowing season is about to start in mid-June but the water channels have not been cleared so far.”
 
 Another farmer of Neshta village, Gurdev Singh, rued that the government was too keen on preventing state’s water from flowing into Haryana but it was not at all concerned about the proper utilization what it had. He said most of the channels were in bad shape and whatever water that ran through them, when the department releases water in the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC), was either pilfered or seeped into the ground due to poor maintenance.
 
 Farmer leader   told TOI that the irrigation department had failed to check the water theft due to which poorer farmers suffered a lot. Recalling the earlier times, he said the water from now defunct water channels was considered healthy for its mineral contents and was also used for drinking and cooking meals.
 
 Randhawa, who is also general secretary of Border Area Sangharsh Committee, said they had demanded from the government to release adequate water in the UBDC ahead of paddy sowing season, clear weeds, de-silt the water channels and take adequate measures to prevent theft of canal water, failing which the farmers would be forced to launch a statewide agitation.
 
 “We have already held meetings with other farmer outfits and put forth our demands before the government. If we don’t get desired response, we will be forced to launch an agitation,” he said.
 
 When contacted, irrigation department superintendent engineer (canals) Varinder Kumar said the department had not received funds for the cleaning of the water channels. He said as against a capacity of 8,000 cusec water they release 6,000-7,000 cusec water in UBDC.
 
 Reacting to this, Randhawa said the government could give funds from MGNREGS for clearing the water channels which would not only provide work to the villagers everywhere but would also ensure proper irrigation.
 
