PUNE:   of collectible items like rare artworks, antique jewellery, hand-held gadgets and designer clothes is fast catching up in the city.

  resident Nandita Mohan, an interior designer, was concerned about her movable assets at her home when she learned about the damages her friend’s artwork collection suffered during the Chennai floods in 2015.
 
 She immediately sought the help of her financial advisor, who suggested that she insured all the items having monetary as well as emotional value. Acting on the advice, Mohan promptly insured everything — from paintings by Amrita Shergill, sculptures in her drawing room to her husband’s watch collection.
 
 “We are avid travellers and like to pick up collectibles from different places. Owing to our long absence from home, there is always the fear of burglaries or outbreak of fire. Now, at least we are monetarily covered,” she said.
 
 With the rich in the city demonstrating an inclination for acquiring art and other collectibles, they are getting conscious about the need for insuring them, R. Suresh Nair, head of product development at Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd, said. “This trend is seen not only among the wealthier sections but also among youngsters and the double-income families,” he said.
 
 Among other collectibles, the company has received requests for insuring an entire wardrobe containing luxury clothing items, expensive sets of shoes, among others. Also, they have insured items like spoons, linens, expensive cutlery and even pets.
 
 As is the case with  , a 32-year-old finance professional working for an   in Pune, who has not only insured his gadgets but also other valuable possessions, including his Omega Speedmaster watch, a Dior jacket and a Ralph Lauren briefcase gifted to him by his parents. 
 
 An ‘agreed value’ is arrived at when such a policy is sold, said M.  , president (insurance) at Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd. “We seek the help from various quarters to arrive at the appropriate valuation of the items being insured,” he said. 
 
 “Claims are paid even if they have arisen out of negligence unless it is an intentional act,” Ravichandran said.
 
 Recently, a customer accidentally dropped his antique watch. Since there were no experts in India, he got it repaired abroad. The insurer settled the claim after the invoice was submitted.
 
 Art remains the most popular item which is insured, said Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting, claims and insurance at  . “The amount of the annual premium depends on the type and value of the item being insured,” he explained.
 
