Etawah/Mainpuri: Will   vote for uncle Shivpal? This million-dollar query cropped up on Thursday as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, in a string of rallies on home turf  , lit into his estranged uncle for “scheming to drive a wedge” between him and father Mulayam, and trying to split the party. 

 Though he did not name Shivpal, the target was unmistakable. No sooner, standing at the rally venue, a youth, as also a policeman, asked if the new   boss hadn’t just broken up with his uncle. 
 
 Every election, the Yadav clan, Mulayam down to the youngest member, gathers to vote in their village Saifai, which is part of the   seat Shivpal is contesting. 
 
 “Will Akhilesh vote for the same uncle who, two days before polling, he has publicly accused of trying to divide the party and for having tried to poison his father against him,” Arshad, a local in his 40s, wondered. 
 
 An interesting query. But it isn’t the only one bothering voters. Election gossip — along the highway, at tea stalls in markets or during chats with local intellectuals — is a minefi eld of conspiracy theories full of suspicion. 
 
 Eyebrows are being raised over the Samajwadi patriarch’s decision to rake up the 1991 Babri fi ring after days of steering clear of controversial statements. After the family feud, he’s been so cautious that in a rare public rally this election, he honestly expressed his inability to push his CM son beyond a point, instead of berating him as he has done over the last year. So when he, out of the blue, picked on the Babri firing episode this week, conspiracy theorists got to work. Just why did the SP patriarch raise the issue?
 
 “Mulayam wants to help BJP. They have a deal,   will make him President. But have you noticed Modi hasn’t yet attacked Mayawati,” Ashutosh Trivedi suggested, answering the first question and raising the second. 
 
 This season, such questions are like chain smoking, you light one with another. And it seems endless. The curiosity about why Mulayam is saying something or Modi isn’t, is intelligent. But on display is an abhorrence for simple answers. A government functionary says it refl ects the low trust in politicians. 
 
 “BJP will support Mayawati to form the government. It also needs BSP’s help in the President’s election. Why should BJP upset her by attacking her,” reasons   at a tea stall. Most of the times, voter gossip surprises with probing doubts and predictions of doom. And on their favourite subject — local son Shivpal — the general view is that he’ll join BSP after the polls and try to break SP if Mayawati needs the numbers. Which brings us back to the original curiosity. Will Akhilesh vote for Shivpal on February 19?
 
