CHENNAI:   Allizhealth, iNICU & iCHR, and   have been announced as the top three teams of the Intel & DST - Innovate for Digital India Challenge 2.0 (Challenge 2.0). These startups were assessed to be in a position to disrupt the spaces of preventive healthcare, infant mortality, and waste management, respectively.
 
 Shortlisted from nearly 800 applications received nationwide, the selected three teams will now receive go-to-market support and access opportunities led by Intel, DST and T-Hub and their knowledge network of partners and industry. In addition, they will have the opportunity to travel to the United States for a bootcamp and go-to-market mentoring program with US Market Access Center (USMAC). Each team will also receive grants of up to Rs 5,00,000 to take their solutions beyond the beta stage and from local to global markets.
  
 Challenge 2.0, the second edition of the Intel & DST Innovate for Digital India Challenge, is a platform for end-to-end hardware product innovation that identifies and incubates homegrown entrepreneurial solutions that address India’s indigenous issues. This year, Intel India and Department of Science & Technology (“DST”) collaborated with T-Hub to identify ideas that could solve complex issues at the country’s grassroots level through technology and automation, accelerating the transition to a Digital India. Each solution is designed for scale, and to improve the quality of people’s lives in the remotest corners of India.
  
 From developing the Minimum Viable Product that allowed teams to collect maximum validated learning about their customers with the minimum effort, to go-to-market strategy, Challenge 2.0 intended to help participants take their prototypes from mind-to-market. The Smart City category introduced this year garnered almost a quarter of all entries, as did the IoT category, indicating a trend of citizen participation in India’s smart and connected urban infrastructure. Here is the list of the top three teams, in no particular order:
  
 AllizHealth is an assistive device based on the Intel Curie module in the preventive healthcare technology space. It connects the user with a health management platform that assesses and anticipates health risks particularly related to geriatrics support. Providing an integrated, predictive algorithm, the wearable digitally connects users with various ecosystem partners / caregivers for alerts on falls and resulting support and condition management. 
  
 Banyan Nation is a mobile technology platform that integrates the supply chain of India’s waste management and plastic recycling sector. Based on the Intel® Edison, and using the Intel® based Jan Unnati tablet, the smart waste platform automates end-to-end urban recycling operations through on-field bin sensors, GPS truck routers, landfill management toolkits and back-end analytic engines. The solution follows a modular design which is customizable to suit the needs of different municipalities and third-party system integrators developing smart city solutions.
  
 iNICU & iCHR is helping reduce the neonatal infant mortality rate with a system that integrates real-time clinical data from connected devices within the laboratory with bedside observational data. Based on the Intel Cybertan Gateway and Intel Edison, the solution presents the information in medically comprehensive formats to reduce mortality in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). It enables complex clinical decisions to be made in real-time by automatically collecting clinical data, providing critical care for preterm babies.
  
 Debjani Ghosh, MD and VP, sales & marketing, Intel South Asia, said, “Developing local solutions to address India’s widespread social challenges, is one of the prerequisites to make Digital India a reality. We urgently need technologies that are relevant for addressing some of the most basic needs of our country, and the Intel & DST - Innovate for Digital India Challenge is a platform to make that happen. I’ve spent time with the top ten teams, and while many of us dream of changing India, these individuals are actually leading that change. Congratulations to the top three, and I am certain that like last year’s teams, this year’s top teams will also go from mind-to-market, not just in India, but in other countries as well.”
 
 
