New Delhi:   is set to add fresh fuel to the fiercely-competitive mobile telephony market by pumping in an additional Rs 30,000 crore in  , his   venture whose entry has resulted in massive price cuts across the telecom sector.

 The company, which has a subscriber base of 72.4 million at the end of 2016 after its launch on September 5, said that the new funds will be mopped up through a   which was approved at a board meeting on Friday. “In view of the unprecedented customer response to Jio’s services as well as to address the anticipated growth in demand for digital services, additional investments are proposed to be made into the network to enhance its coverage and capacity,” the company said. The new investments will come on top of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore that Reliance has already invested in the telecom business, which spans across mobile network, devices, applications and content.
 
 Jio said that the new investments will be used to boost its network to enhance coverage and capacity. 
 
 “These investments are proposed to be financed largely through an equity offering, to strengthen balance sheet for growth.”
 
 The rights issue will be for 6 billion 9% non-cumulative optionally convertible preference shares (OCPS) of Rs 10 each for cash, at a premium of Rs 40 per OCPS. The amount subscribed/paid on each OCPS will be either redeemed at Rs 50 or converted into five equity shares of Rs 10 each at any time at the option of the company, but not later than 10 years from the date of allotment. Jio had entered the telecom space with a splash as it offered lifetime free voice calling as well as limited-period complimentary data to its subscribers through two inaugural schemes – ‘Welcome Offer’ and ‘Happy New Year’. Both the schemes come with zero tariffs on data downloads and the company has said that this will be valid till the end of March this year.
 
 Jio’s offers have already shaken the telecom industry with established players such as   Airtel, Vodafone and Idea Cellular announcing deep cuts in voice and data tariffs. Airtel, the country’s top telco, has even taken legal action against Trai over Jio’s free services offer, accusing the telecom regulator of being a “sleeping trustee” and a “mute spectator” to the “continued violations” carried out by the new mobile company.
 
 In a petition filed before the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) where it sought abeyance of Jio’s free services offer, Airtel hit out strongly at Trai, accusing it of acting in a non-transparent manner in dealings involving the new telco and its tariff plans.
 
 
