 In a startling revelation it was found that about 60% of the engineering graduates are currently unemployed. Engineering courses are hot favourties in India and many parents still force their kids to take up engineering. Ahmedabad Times speaks to engineering graduates to know the real current scenario and why many are unemployed. Aditya Agrawal,a mechanical engineer who is currently studying at IIM Jammu says, “It is true that most of the engineering graduates are   but at the same time there is also a dearth of skilled   and organisations in the country still need good technical graduates.It is our education system that is lacking behind.” 
To curb employment problems MHRD is planning to revamp the curriculum by rolling out a single national entrance examination from January next year. The new strategy will also link compulsory annual teacher training for approval of the institution, annual revision of curriculum and also compulsory induction training to enrolled students. Most of the graduates believe that it is poor quality of teachers combined with an outdated curriculum that is adding to these students’ woes. “The sole reason we should now also focus on gaining a Masters degree is to sharpen our  , that of course doesn’t mean we give less importance to undergraduate courses,” says Agrawal. Another problem is that only 15% of the courses are accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and according to figures less than 1% of students opt for summer internships.
 Nina Bhuva who recently graduated in electronics and communications engineering from LJ Institute of engineering and technology says, “I am currently working with a start-up and there were so many things I did not know which I should have practically studied during my graduation. Unfortunately our education system focuses only on textbook based knowledge and no practical knowledge is
 ever gained.” While teaching about patents in the final year to the students, “My professor was surprised to know that none of the 60 odd students knew about the word or what it meant. This is the sad scenario of graduates in our country,” says Bhuva. While lack of skilled graduates is also linked to them not opting for summer internships. “It is the internships that give practical knowledge. Also for the placement from my class of 60, only five/ six students I knew of sat for the interviews.” When the new curriculum along with centralized entrance exam is implemented either in December this year or January 2018 the paper setting will still be done by the IITs. 
 Mitsu Zaveri a city based professional who studied mechanical engineering says, “Initially there were about five to six colleges whereas today under GTU there are about 60 colleges which speaks for itself. Unfortunately with increasing parental pressure and more students opting for these courses there is an overflow of graduates.” In spite of the overflow of engineering graduates in the country, they are unemployable due to lack of skills. “I have seniors who are hired for as less as Rs 5000 a month,” says Bhuva. 
 Rahul Mehta, a computer engineer who was one of the toppers with a 9/10 cumulative grade point average (CGPA) says, “This scene was long pending since the number of institutes have drastically gone up over the last few years just because it is a lucrative business. The courses taught at most of these colleges hardly meet the current requirements of the companies plus there is an over dependence on IT companies for placements. As the same industry is going through a rough patch, placement issues have cropped up.” It is probably long before the students actually gain some practical knowlegde and are ready to face the questions at interviews that make them employable.
 
 
