Nagpur: Ajni police last week arrested four second year MBBS students of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for their alleged involvement in setting afire two-wheelers parked at womens’ hostel in second week of April. Two scooters of third year students of GMCH were damaged in the fire that had also triggered a serious debate on the security, especially of women students, within the premises.  Though cops have cracked the case, they are now examining whether the four medicos had perpetrated the crime just for a ‘kick’ or were compelled by others as part of ragging. Abhishek Khatri, the main accused, has claimed he was compelled to set the two-wheelers on fire by his classmates. Khatri, whose family owns a shoe-making business in Ludhiana, was arrested on April 28. Though Ajni police tried to seek his custody for questioning, the court allowed bail as per Section 435 of Indian Penal Code applied in the case.  Khatri’s interrogation led to the arrests of Kamil Raja Hussain, Ravindra Sahare and Kunal Kumbhare on April 30. They too got bail the same day. Police said Khatri claimed Hussain, Sahare and Kumbhare had prompted him to set the two-wheelers on fire as seniors in the hostels were pressuring them to play the prank. Sahare’s father is a teacher at Arjuni Morgaon in Gondia district. Kumbhare, whose father works at Ordnance Factory, is a native of Bhandara district. Hussain is from Kamptee. It has come to fore Khatri and three others were studying late into the night when they decided to go out for a cup of tea together. On their way back Khatri sneaked into the women hostel and set the scooters on fire. Khatri claimed to have got the kerosene for his act from his three accomplices but Hussain, Sahare and Kumbhare stated that Khatri arranged it himself. Senior PI Shailesh Shanke of Ajni police station said the investigating team under sub-inspector SS Bansod had tried to seek custody of the four for interrogations but bail was granted. The investigation was supervised by Zonal DCP Ravindrasingh Pardeshi.  PSI Bansod, however, claimed the case would be probed from different angles and statements of the four would be verified to ascertain whether the setting of fire of vehicles was part of the ragging or just a prank.  Ajni police, which had substantial clue in the form of CCTV footage, had to take up the challenge as this was second incident of women students’ two-wheelers being burnt. In June last year around eight vehicles in the parking slot were similarly damaged.