HYDERABAD: About 1,200 industrial units located in the   have now been taken up by the   (CII)   for bringing in resource conservation and improvement of environment condition.

 The `Eco-industrial parks' project is being taken up at Jeedimetla in Telangana and at the Vizag Pharma city in Andhra Pradesh to begin with. They will later be replicated and scaled up in other states. Simple measures like automated moving sensors to switch off electrical appliances like lights, fans, air conditioners etc to reusing waste material can bring in substantial changes. The change of the existing park into an eco-industrial park is expected to bring in atleast 15 percent improvement in performance and in turn revenues.
 
 “We are currently mapping the resource consumption in the industrial units, conducting sample assessment to find out what type of energy improvement can be done. Once the possibilities are identified, we will bring technology providers who can be of help and connect the industries with finan cial institutions for funding,“ said KS Venkatagiri, executive director,  . Adding that almost all the units stand a chance of improvement by 10-15 percent by introducing very simple and cost effective interventions, he said he said that the teams are also looking at bringing in industrial symbiosis by churning out businesses to use   of one industry as raw material for another.
 
 The Jeedimetla industrial park meanwhile houses a gamut of industrial units like engineering units, food processing, chemical, plastic, pharma units apart from others and has an estimated turnover of around `20,000 to 24,000 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, such methods are extensively used by many other countries like China, Japan and Korea, the entire Indian sector has remained devoid of any such measures till date. The project is the first of its kind in India by the industrial sector and the team hopes to scale it up to other areas.
 
 “If 10 units start implementing these measures, peer learning and competition will force others to follow suit.Moreover, we are hoping to create some businesses from the waste generated from the units as well as is done internationally,“ added Venkatagiri.
 
