Valentine’s Day is just a week away and you have just enough time to get into a svelte mode. It does not matter whether you’ve planned a quick getaway with your beau, a candle night dinner or steamy dance date, the game of seduction works only when you feel you’re looking your best. So, start now with some lifestyle changes to turn that   into a hot encounter.

 
 
 
 You know how it’s said that girls have an arsenal of weapons at our disposal? Right from Julia Roberts’ megawatt smile to loaded phrases like ‘we need to talk’. And topping that list the deadly pout. If you can nail that sultry curling of your lips with the come-hither expression, your bae will have no option but to be vanquished. There’s no doubt who the winner of this love (and war) ritual is. So, stand in front of the mirror, every night, for at least 10 minutes and practise. Dig out every lippy you have and try them before zeroing in on the one that makes your pout lethal. Yes, trust us, even PeeCee’s success has a lot to do with her oxblood lipstick choices. Tease your partner with selfies of your pout in different shades. The trick, however, is to keep the mystery alive; so, don’t overdo it.
 
 
 
 
 Religiously go through every beauty article we publish in this one week. You have ample time to work on it. Raid the kitchen to make a mask. Steal some of those cucumber slices your mom was intending to pickle and put them on your eyes instead. Pamper yourself with beauty treatments and spa sessions. V-day or not, we girls can always do with some TLC. Even if the beauty regimen fails, the satisfaction will give your skin just the glow you need.
 
 
 
 
 If you want to go all out and hog to your heart’s content on V Day (we recommend going Dutch on the bill), you might as well cut down on the carbs now. And that means, no fast food. The veggie brigade has cracked this code alright. Pile on the leafy greens, salads, fruits and juices. And for once, stick to mom-made food. Here’s a tip to survive this lean period: Complement your mom’s cooking, and you’ll get lip-smacking, yet healthy food for the rest of the week. Also, drink up. Water, we mean. 
 
 
 
 
 Not that we need any excuse to catch up on our beauty sleep. Good sleep is as important as all the fitspiration, so relax and go off to sleep. And for God’s sake, take the earphones out. In addition to cutting down on the anxiety and stress, you will also probably be able to get up early for a yoga session. The mantra this week is to chill.
 
 
 
 Fitness doesn’t have to be all spandex and sweat, even if it makes cool Instagram pics. Try some Zumba. Or use this opportunity to hit the   early in the morning for a picturesque yoga session. We recommend you convince your siblings to accompany you (bribe if you must); So, even if you don’t reach zen, you will make for some pretty incredible fitspo on social media when you post those inspiring clicks. Running or jogging with earphones can help. If you used to be good at a sport in school, maybe you can leave the smartphone home and head for the playground. Who knows, you might just rediscover passion.
 
 
 
 
 Start with a nice warm bath. Remember those scented bath candles that you got at your office’s  ? It’s finally time to use them and get rejuvenated.
 Now, about the outfit. Red? Yes. A little  ? Umm… How about going risqué? A skater dress or 
 an off-shoulder floor length gown can add just the oomph you need. Pantsuits are a great option, too. A white suit with a red cape thrown over the shoulders… we can almost visualise your partner’s jaw dropping. You have already chosen the right lip colour. And you have watched enough make-up tutorials. Put them to good use. And most importantly, blend. In the end, strut down to your bae like you are walking the runway. Preferably, in red stilettoes.
 
 
