LUCKNOW: Less than a month after the seven-phase state assembly elections concluded, UP is set for renewed political activity with State Election Commission announcing it would complete the election process for   in the state by July 15. 

 The commission said the local bodies’ elections in 2012 too were held between May 25 and July 7 and the elected representatives held their first meeting on July 15. 
 
 The commission, in fact, has asked all district magistrates to complete process of delimitation of wards in municipal corporations, Nagar Palika Parishads and Nagar Panchayats by April 12. The commission has also set deadline to complete the rapid survey of backward castes population and reservation of wards by May 25.
 
 The ensuing local bodies’ elections will take into account 14 municipal corporations, 202 Nagar Palika Parishads and 438 Nagar Panchayats.
 
 The development gains significance for all political parties, especially the BJP which got an overwhelming majority in the recently concluded assembly elections. The saffron party had performed extraordinarily well in 2012 local bodies’ election, winning 10 out of 12 mayoral seats, including in Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi. This time, elections will be held for 14 mayoral seats, the newly added municipal corporations being Saharanpur and Firozabad.
 
 Ousted from power in UP,   too sees an opportunity to regain ground by contesting the local bodies elections on party symbol. In 2012, SP only backed candidates and denied them use of party symbol. SP backed candidate, I S Tomar had then won the Bareilly mayoral seat. SP continues to be in alliance with the Congress which has always been contesting local bodies’ polls on a party symbol.
 
 Mayawati led Bahujan Samaj Party has never contested the municipal elections on party symbol, though it has been backing candidates as ‘party supported’. In 2012, the BSP backed candidate and wife of former BSP MLA Nand Gopal Nandi, Abhilasha Nandi won the Allahabad mayor seat. Nandi, however, switched to Congress to contest 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Allahabad, which he lost. He joined the BJP just before UP assembly elections, contested from Allahabad South and won. He is now a minister in the Aditya Nath Yogi cabinet. The Dalit dominated outfit, roundly decimated in the recently assembly elections at the hands of BJP, is learnt to be wary of fielding candidates or even backing any of them. 
 
