PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Citizens, social organisations and local corporators have univocally demanded that   be selected for area based development (ABD) under the   Project.

 A delegation of representatives from these organisations met municipal commissioner Dinesh Waghmare to press for their demand on March 29.
 
 Deputy mayor Shailaja More, NCP standing committee member Raju Misal, Shiv Sena standing committee member Amit Gawde, PCMC BJP corporator Sharmila Babar, Suryakant Muthiyan of Pradhikaran Senior Citizens Organisation, Amol Deshpande and Rohan Nighojkar of   Forum(PCCF) along with representatives of Vidarbha Sahyog, Sindhunagar Yuvak Mandal and PCNTDA Citizen Forum met Waghmare and discussed their demands.
 
 They spoke about the reasons for which Nigdi-Pradhikaran must be selected for ABD and how it will benefit the whole city.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Raju Misal, NCP standing committee member, PCMC, said, “Nigdi-Pradhikaran has planned development of the city and deserves to be selected for ABD under Smart City project. Many offices of departments of Union and state governments as well as that of PCMC are located in this area. There are more than a dozen reputed private schools and colleges in this area. I will raise the matter in the standing committee meeting to be held next week and in the civic general body meeting. Residents of Pradhikaran areas will submit a charter of demands to all the three MLAs and, if needed, will also meet chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to press for their demands.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Amol Deshpande, founder and convenor, PCCF said, “Around 30 organisations have submitted a letter of support for inclusion of Nigdi-Pradhikaran as ABD in the Smart City project. The forms distributed about Smart City project and the online poll on municipal website did not mention that the area that gets maximum votes will be selected for the ABD. We want PCMC to develop a multi-modal transport hub and other projects in our area.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dinesh Waghmare, municipal commissioner, PCMC, said, “We will submit the proposal for the Smart City project to the state government soon. We can develop the projects in Nigdi-Pradhikaran area through civic funds.”
 
