KOCHI: The   allotted Rs 681 crore to Cochin Cancer Research Centre, Government Medical College and Ernakulam  , through   (KIIFB), to give a fillip to the   in Kochi.

 The KIIFB board, which met on Tuesday, cleared the projects along with those that are being planned in different parts of the state. “The government is keen on vitalizing the public health sector. It would be a great relief for patients who have been depending on private hospitals that charge exorbitant bills,“ said  .
 
 It is learnt that INKEL (Infrastructure Kerala Ltd) will float a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to implement these projects. Also, a tripartite agreement will be inked between the health department, INKEL and KIIFB, detailing the project execution plans. “These firms will not have to repay the funds. But, their management will have to find ways to generate funds for operating the ventures. It may take a couple of months to begin the projects. The tendering process would take one-and-a-half months,“ said an official with KIIFB.
 
 Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) had asked HSCC (formerly known as  ), a mini-Ratna firm, to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for CCRC. It submitted a proposal and the estimated cost was Rs 450 crore. Later, considering the request put forward by the state government, it revised the DPR and submitted project worth Rs 368-crore.
 
 The technical and engineering wing of KIIFB went through the project and eliminated some features to trim the cost to Rs 310 crore. Now, this amount would be used to build a fully-operational 300-bed cancer hospital and research institute, blood bank and a rehab centre for cured patients. The project will be implemented in two phases and a 217-bed hospital will be built during phase-I and phase-II will see the construction of a 183-bed faci lity.
 
 “It is great to know that the government has allotted such a huge sum for the health sector in Kochi. The cancer institute project was going nowhere for four years. It just had an outpatient wing. There won't be further delay in implementing the project,“ said Dr N K Sanil Kumar of Justice V R Krishna Iyer Movement.
 
 In the case of Government Medical College, Ernakulam, the original proposal entailed an expenditure of Rs 355 crore.After scrutiny , the project cost was cut down to Rs 310 crore by KIIFB's technical and engineering wing. The centre would have a mother and child centre, super specialty block with cath lab, dental wing and an enhanced radiology department.
 
 “In the case of cancer institute and medical college, INKEL and other agencies ­ associated with these projects ­ conducted a site inspection yesterday,“ said an official with Government Medical College, adding that the pro ject would begin soon.
 
 Ernakulam general hospital had submitted a renovation project worth Rs 76 crore. KIIFB lowered the amount to Rs 61 crore. The fund will be used for constructing a super specialty and cancer care blocks, drawing high tension lines for augmenting power supply and renovation of existing blocks.
 
