An unexplained ‘technical glitch’ led to trading on the National Stock Exchange (NSE), the country’s largest bourse, coming to a halt for three hours and caused price fluctuations later during the day. Despite the hiccup, the   — which accounts for nearly 80% of stock trading in the country — hit a lifetime high of 9,782 points.

 Brokers said that when the exchange opened for trade, share prices were not updating as a result of which quotes were wrong for about an hour. This also resulted in a huge discrepancy between cash and derivative prices. Brokers said that the glitch had the potential to cause big losses for arbitrageurs — those who use software to buy and sell across markets.
 
 The NSE has ruled out a cyber attack. Although the exchange has backup servers, these are designed to kick in during a disaster or an incident involving hardware or connectivity problems. “Preliminary assessment indicated a software problem. Secondly, the system was expected to be rectified quickly, and shifting to the   (business continuity plan) site would have taken longer,” the NSE said.
 
 With stocks and future & options (F&O) quotes not updating, trade orders did not go through. “We were not able to execute trades,” market participants said. Deven R Choksey, managing director, KR Choksey Shares and Securities, said, “Their order-matching system didn’t work. We are facing such a problem after a long time.” G Chokkalingam, founder and MD, Equinomics Research and Advisory, said, “Market prices were not updating. Something seems to have gone wrong with their backup. This is the longest blackout in trading (on the NSE) after the advent of technology.” For instance, while the   displayed the share price of Balmer Lawrie and Co as Rs 245, the NSE displayed a stock price of Rs 233. An NSE spokeswoman said, “We are still trying to find the root cause of the problem. If any orders were not executed on Monday, they will get cancelled.”
 
 Trading was halted around 9.55am and exchange authorities attempted to restore pre-market trading at 10.45am. Two attempts to reopen were not fully successful. Finally, at the third attempt, the market was opened at 12.30pm in the cash and F&O segments, after the pre-open period. About 3.9 crore shares were traded in the cash segment that saw a turnover of nearly Rs 6,266 crore on Monday. On an average, over 12 crore shares are traded in the NSE’s cash segment with a turnover in excess of Rs 20,000 crore.
 
 However, trading was normal on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). In fact, the benchmark sensex rose 220 points to hit a fresh record high of 31,600 points in early trading and closed at an all-time high of 31,716 points — a 355-point increase, or a 1.1% gain. While the NSE issued an apology, it did not come up with any reason for the system error. “The matter is being examined by the internal technical team and external vendors, to analyse and identify the cause which led to the issue and to suggest solutions to prevent recurrence,” the exchange said.The NSE also said that it has referred the matter to the Standing Committee on Technology, comprising public interest directors and technology experts for review of the problem and to approve measures to prevent recurrence of such glitches.
 
 
