PATIALA:  , Patiala, which is grappling with acute financial crisis, has decided to do away with the system of of re-employing retired teachers and other staff from April this year. 

 The decision comes in the wake of Punjab government’s refusal to release second phase of Rs 50 crore grant that was promised by chief minister   last year as the university continued to appoint retired staffers. In September 2016, the state government had written a letter to the university in this regard.
 
 In a circular, a copy of which is with TOI, the university has stated that it would not employ any teaching or non-teaching staff, who have retired, in compliance with the state government guidelines. Such appointments would be discontinued from April 1, 2017. 
 
 The circular also states that new recruitments at lower salaries would be made to replace re-employed teachers and other staffers and the varsity would also do away with paying overtime to the employees. 
 
 According to sources, the university had assured the Punjab government that it would submit a plan to reduce its expenditure by December 15 last year. They added that the university had mooted to cut down its academic expenditure, including amount spent on hosting seminars and conferences.
 
 In its current financial year budget, the university has earmarked Rs 487 crore for paying salaries and pensions, which is around 80% of Rs 530-crore budget. The university had projected an annual income of Rs 399.43 crore from various sources, including fee, grants from the Centre and state governments,   (UGC) and donations.
 
 To bridge the gap in earning and expenditure, the university had approached the Punjab government, which approved a grant of Rs 50 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, peeved at the delay in release of salary last month, associations of teaching and non-teaching staff recently held a protest demonstration and also blocked the university’s main gates. It was only after vice-chancellor   met the agitating staffers and assured earlier resolution to the crisis, the blockade was lifted.
 
 When contacted, the Punjabi University registrar   said the varsity had been facing financial problems but efforts were on to implement effective measures to tide over the crisis. 
 
