BHOPAL: A sub-divisional officer of police shot himself dead with his service revolver at his official residence in   district on Sunday afternoon.

 The officer, Hemant  , originally a resident of   district was posted as SDOP, Sabalgarh in Morena and was about to retire in less than a year’s time.
 The incident took place at around 12. Sisodiya returned to his residence from his office, said police.
 
 “In his office he had told his gunman to bring his pistol at around 11.30 am,” SP   told TOI.
 
 After he reached his residence, his gunman and driver were going away for taking lunch and Sisodia was left alone with his domestic help at the house, Singh said.
 
 “Hardly his driver managed to turn the vehicle when Sisodia took out his uniform, sat on his bed and shot himself dead,” he added.
 
 “It is a sad incident. He was about to retire in 6-7 months and had requested for a transfer to his home district, Guna, which was approved a few days ago. Normally he was a jolly person. Prima facie it has surfaced that there was some family dispute related to some property and primarily it seems that the same dispute has triggered this incident,” Singh said.
 
 His domestic help who was in the bathroom at that time rushed out after hearing the sound of the bullet, said sources.
 
 Seeing the officer blood stained, the domestic help shouted and informed the local police station incharge. The domestic help who was working at the residence of Sisodiya for more than six years, has told police that the officer had never shared anything that worried him, he was normal and never talked about any problem, said police.
 
 The official residence of Sisodia was sealed and forensic teams were summoned, while the senior officials including the district superintendent of police inspected the spot. Kin have been informed about the incident, police said.
 
 Sisodiya who was originally a resident of Guna district, was posted as SDOP Sabalgarh for past three years and used to live alone at Morena.
 
