NEW DELHI: With admissions under the   underway at Delhi University, applicants were seen rushing from college to college. The centralised   was seen as a hindrance as it required applicants to register themselves at each college individually. 

 “I hope to get admission in a good college through   quota,” said Aastha Sehrawat, who scored 80% in her board exams and wants to study physics (honours). “But, the process for admission under sports   is very cumbersome and time consuming. It would have been better if we didn’t have to rush to each college to register ourselves after the trials,” she added.
 
 Students also complained about not being able to cover all colleges of their choice. Manmeet Singh – a BCom aspirant who plays volleyball – was present at Hindu College on Saturday to register himself. “There are over 20 colleges with a provision for sports quota, but we have to apply to each college individually. As we only get few days Sfor this registration process, I could not submit my form at four colleges,” he said.
 
 “I am skeptical about my chances of securing a seat through the quota as I haven’t been able to apply at   key colleges due to paucity of time,” Singh added.
 
 This year, 3,482 applicants registered for admissions under sports quota, with over 500 students being judged for a sport every day. “I only got to play for about a minute, apart from the fitness test, during my trials. I feel it isn’t an adequate amount of time for the coaches to judge my potential,” said an aspirant. 
 
 Meanwhile, it is not just the aspirants who are unhappy with the centralised process. With the trials being conducted collectively, particular requirements of individual colleges are also not met. “Earlier, each college held its own sports trials and selected candidates who complemented the game of its existing team members,” said an official requesting anonymity. “Now, candidates are selected according to the ranks obtained in the centralised trials. We do not know their specific skills,” added the college official.
 
 DU Sports Council Chairman C S Dubey, however, defended the centralised trials, saying that the new system has rather made things easier for applicants. “Dates for trials at different colleges used to clash in the earlier system,” he told TOI. 
 
 
