GHAZIABAD: Archie Yadav, the 12-year-old girl who went missing from her home in   on February 13, is set to return to   with her parents by Sunday morning. 

 Archie’s parents, Subhash and Sudha Yadav, were to leave Dharamsala now that all formalities for the child’s transfer from the child care centre were completed on Saturday, her uncle, Sunil Yadav, told TOI. The police confirmed that Archie was to return early on Sunday.
 
 The building in Shakti Khand-3, where the Yadavs live on the second floor, houses three families who reside on three separate floors. Archie’s family members said the front gate of the building was always left open and could have been an easy access to unwanted people.
 
 Madhu Yadav, Archie’s aunt, said she was convinced that Archie was in fact kidnapped after being hypnotised and she did not leave on her own. 
 
 “If Archie wanted to run away, she would have taken some money with her. But even the Rs 150 which her mother left on the living room table after buying vegetables was left untouched,” Madhu said.
 
 The Archie episode has instilled a sense of fear among neighbours and residents of the area, especially among parents who have two or more children who are left home alone with spare keys.
 
 Anju Singh, a resident of Shakti Khand-4, said that she and with some of her neighbours have decided to opt for more CCTV cameras in their neighbourhood. “I have now stopped leaving the spare key with my daughter at home and, instead, I leave it with my ground-floor neighbours. We are in a difficult situation where we have to leave our kids at home when we go out for work, small chores or for tending to the needs of their siblings. Taking children along everywhere is not an option,” Anju said.
 
 “The level of security in the city is highly deplorable and after this incident, it is all the more clear that the children are not safe in their own homes. My parents have actually asked me to leave Ghaziabad and settle in Delhi,” she said. Pooja Kalra, another resident of Shakti Khand, expressed the growing sense of insecurity among residents owing to increasing crime rate in the area and repeated incidents like snatchings, loot and armed robbery.
 
 Archie’s family members said a similar incident of hypnotism involving a woman, had also happened to one of the women family members of their first-floor neighbours.
 
 On the police’s claim that Archie might have run away because of some incomplete school work, they said children usually share all these issues with their parents and Archie would have told her mother if that was the case.
 
 
