AHMEDABAD:   high court on Thursday upheld the policy adopted by   of giving preference to its own students for admission in PG medical courses for the academic year 2017-18.

 After the university gave preference to those MBBS graduates from its own colleges over students from other universities in its PG courses, eleven students approached the high court and questioned the decision. 
 
 The petitioners also made all candidates selected for the PG courses as parties in litigation.
 
 After hearing the petitioners, the state government, the university, the   and the central government, a bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi rejected the petition questioning the university policy.
 
 As per SC ruling of September 22, 2016, the state governments have to give admission to such courses only via a centralised system based on student's score in NEET-PG exam (National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test for Post-Graduation medical courses).
 
 NEET-PG was conducted between December 5 and 13 and the result was declared in January. Before SC's intervention, all the universities, including Gujarat University, had control over admission to 50% of the seats in PG medical courses and gave preference to their own students over students from other universities. 
 
 However, GU took a decision on October 10 to continue with the system of preference. With this, students from other universities could get admission in PG courses in colleges affiliated to GU only if seats were to remain vacant or fall vacant.
 
 Gujarat University has in its kitty about 60% of the total PG medical seats offered by various universities in Gujarat. Out of total 793 MD seats in Gujarat, 283 are offered by GU.
 
  Likewise in MS course, GU offers 160 seats out of total 396 across Gujarat. 
 
 In super speciality courses, Gujarat University has lion's share. In DM, GU offers 38 seats out of total 40 across Gujarat. For MCh, Gujarat University offers 48 seats out of 55 across Gujarat. GU-affiliated medical colleges also offer more variety of degree and diploma courses.
 
 
