 (MP): An eerie calm welcomes you at the ‘galla’ (grain)   in Bhind town. The sprawling grain shed where farmers offload their produce is uncharacteristically clean, and absolutely empty. Around 90% of the wholesale grain shops that flank the market remain shuttered. Except for a lone truck being loaded at the far end, there’s no sign of activity.

 It’s noon on Tuesday, a normal working day at the mandi. But the deserted market seems to point to a new normal. A few grain merchants and transporters standing around a tea stall describe the situation in a single word: “Notebandi”.
 
 “This is usually one of the busiest times at the mandi, when you wouldn’t find enough space to place a foot. But demonetisation has reduced trade to a trickle,” says Manoj Sharma, a grain trader.
 
 This is the time of the year, Sharma says, when farmers bring their bajra, oilseed, arhar and moong produce to the market. But this season, merchants are unable to pay them in cash and most farmers wouldn’t accept cheques because getting cash from banks is still a big struggle, he adds.
 
 “A truckload of   goes for Rs 10-12 lakh, and bajra for around Rs 2 lakh. How will merchants raise that much money when the withdrawal limit for current accounts is Rs 50,000?” asks  , a transporter, adding that his three trucks have been sitting idle for days.
 
 The mandi normally handles around 1,000 bags of grain per day during this season, says  , another trader. “But this time, we have been getting just 50 to 100 bags,” he says. In Bhind district, only about a third of the sown area is irrigated. And, two-thirds of the irrigation is by deep dug wells, often going down to 350 feet. 
 
 Hence, crops that consume less water, such as coarse grain, pulses and oilseeds, are grown. These crops can be stored for a relatively longer time. And that’s what many farmers seem to be doing instead of selling the produce on credit or getting paid in cheques.
 
 The winding-down of trade at the mandi is affecting livelihoods all around. “We have not got our salaries for the past five months,” says  , a clerk at the mandi office. He explained that the office staff is paid out of the corpus the market receives as commission on sales. “As August to October are lean months, we usually get our arrears in November. But this year, demonetisation happened,” he says. “With trade still down, we don’t know when our salaries will come through,” Shakya adds.
 
 
 
 
