BHOPAL: The two-day state   meeting was inaugurated in Sagar on Tuesday with a political resolution on demonetisation while lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s bold move to curb black money and corruption.

 The committee supported Modi’s decision to promote cashless economy in the country and also passed an agriculture resolution on current status. “Modi initiated demonetisation to check growing Naxalism, terrorism, corruption and black money. The decision was followed by a critical move to promote cashless transaction across the country, which is picking up fast,” said BJP state general secretary Ajay Pratap Singh while talking to reporters. He said the working committee has focused on prominent resolutions passed by party’s national executive in New Delhi and decided to chalk out strategy for development in regional areas of Madhya Pradesh. There was also a special mention on development of Bundelkhand during the meeting and the state government has plans for it, Singh said.
 
 The political resolution stated that in order to retain its lost glory, the country needs to do away with mental constraints and abolish evils like corruption, terrorism, administrative disorder, casteism, regional conflicts and Naxalism. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister   the country is making strides towards development and taking exceptional steps to fight internal and external forces. Surgical strike carried out by the Indian forces is one of such actions,” read the resolution. It further stated that the strong steps taken by Modi to demonetise old currency notes and promote cashless transactions has evoked appreciation.
 
 “Demonetisation has been highly appreciated by the masses and the government is getting full support from the common people on the issue because the decision was taken in the interest of the nation. Prime Minister’s decision has severely affected the Maoists, insurgent forces and terrorists. It will also promote a corruption-free society,” Singh quoted the resolution. The committee also supported Modi’s views on electoral reforms and praised the 11-year tenure of chief minister  . The committee also planned implementation of public welfare schemes beginning with housing for all, financial assistance to the meritorious students in pursuing higher studies, finding solutions for global warming and climate change and to take steps for a clean India under Swachch Bharat campaign. 
 
 The first day of the working committee was also dedicated to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, apart from initiatives taken by the Prime Minister, as the party praised both the leaders for their initiatives for development. Party state head Nandkumar Singh Chauhan gave the credit to the chief minister for BJP’s landslide victory in parliamentary, assembly and civic body elections. “Even in bypolls, the party pulled off triumph due to the chief minister’s popularity and Modi’s demonetisation drive,” he said during the working committee meeting.
 
 Earlier, Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan lighted the lamp to open the two-day session of the working committee. However, party's state affairs in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and national general secretary (organisation) Ramlal could not attend the opening session.
 
 
