JAIPUR: In a bid to improve the deplorable condition of the ‘Haathi Gaon’, seven years after it came into being in 2010, the forest department is finally taking some concrete measures. The ‘Haathi Gaon’ at Amber would now be managed like a zoo that would have a ticketed gated complex. 

 Besides, several infrastructure upgradation measures, a detailed proposal is being prepared at the cost of approximately Rs 8 crore to provide to the captive elephants, a near natural habitat. In a revolutionary move, for the first time, the state forest department invited Wildlife SOS to organise a series of training workshops on Elephant Care and Management to sensitize elephant owners and keepers (mahouts) in Jaipur. In the first of its kind workshop, 75 mahouts and owners interacted with Wildlife SOS elephant care experts and veterinarians from the Elephant Conservation and   in Mathura that conducted extensive training and sensitization for elephant owners and mahouts.
 
 “Our focus is to ensure that the elephants receive better care. The forest department invited Wildlife SOS to carry out assessment of the Elephant Village with an intention to improve the conditions for the elephants and organise a series of workshops on healthcare and management of captive elephants,” said Dr  , chief wildlife warden, Rajasthan. The project for 100 elephants and their mahouts at   was to provide a natural park-like shelter for elephants with extensive plantation, a well-equipped veterinary hospital and proper sewerage facility. It had envisaged basic comforts for the pachyderms, besides creating for several attractions for the tourists. But even six years later a lot needs to be done to improve the facility for elephants in captivity. At the moment there are 116 elephants in Jaipur.
 
 “Many aspects of veterinary care in elephants are often overlooked or neglected, and can become fatal to the overall long-term health of the elephants,” said Dr Yaduraj Khadpekar, senior veterinary officer and officer in-charge of the Elephant Conservation and Care Center in Mathura.
 
 The elephant care workshop was conducted at the Nahargarh Biological Park and featured interactive discussions conducted by the senior elephant veterinarians from Wildlife SOS, Dr Ilayaraja, Dr Yaduraj and Dr Akshay. This was combined with practical demonstrations on key areas of medical intervention like foot care, wound management, vaccinations, preventive care etc. The workshop was a success with nearly 75 elephant owners and mahouts in attendance, said  , co-founder of Wildlife SOS. 
 
 
