KOLKATA: A day after the fiasco over “tough” Bengali question papers in   2017, controversy erupted on Monday with the   government deciding to write to the Central Board of Secondary Education for a retest.

 The Trinamool government protested a breach of trust claiming that   — the authority conducting the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test — had promised Bengali-language examinees a level playing field. However, the assurance was not kept, it said. “The NEET 2017 question set in Bengali was much tougher than that in English,” state education minister Partha Chatterjee said at Nabanna. Chatterjee said he had briefed   on the issue after the CM enquired about the “problems”.
 
 The state government will consult the medical education directorate and seek a re-examination from CBSE and MHRD, he said.
 
 Chatterjee alleged that the decision to raise the difficulty level of Bengali question papers in comparison to English and Hindi was deliberate and aimed to deprive students from Bengal. Questioning the move for separate papers, the minister said he had received several complaints from parents whose children took NEET 2017.
 
 “I doubt if CBSE had considered to take feedback from anyone in Bengal before preparing the NEET 2017 Bengali papers. Leave aside the completely different set of questions given to those taking the test in Bengali, even the English translation of the Bengali question papers had several glitches. There were wrong terminologies used in the translated English version,” said Sushovan Ghosh, a RKM Sarisha student.
 
 “Atria actually means atrium. But when CBSE translated the word from English to Bengali, it became artery,” said Wasim Akram Hussain, a student of Nungi High School and currently studying at  .
 
 This year, CBSE had prepared completely different set of questions for regional languages, including Bengali, unlike in 2013 when all question papers were uniform and had the same content. The different languages were just translations of one another. On Sunday, candidates taking the test in Bengali alleged that the level of difficulty was way higher than in English or Hindi while some claimed that even the weightage varied.
 
 Chatterjee said this was a ploy to stop Bengal students from studying MBBS. “This is an attack on the merit of students from Bengal. Those who appeared in English had a much easier paper,” the minister said.
 
 Amiya Maity, a former teacher at SSKM, said: “Fifteen per cent seats reserved in medical colleges across the country will admit students from the All India Medical Rank (AIR) prepared from NEET. Since Bengali question papers had a very high difficulty level, most candidates from the medium are unlikely to find high ranks in AIR. Hence, they will miss an opportunity to bag coveted seats in prestigious medical colleges like Benaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University or Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi. They will have to wait for admissions to local medical colleges.”
 
 A student of a renowned government school in north Kolkata pointed out, “We will now have to pray that English medium students don’t prefer to stay back in Bengal. Else, we won’t even find a seat in state quota.”
 
 Bengal had 92 centres and 56,079 allotted candidates across five cities. Of them, around 40,000 students took the test in Bengali.
 
