VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when the whole country is shifting from cash payments to the cashless mode, the country's largest insurer   (LIC) of India's Vizag division is yet to go digital. 

 Though more than 95 per cent of the policy holders have credit and debit cards, they can't use it at the LIC as it does not have electronic point of sale (ePoS) machines. This traditional practice of accepting cash has limited several policy holders from paying premium in large amounts as the banks have withdrawal limits of only Rs 24,000 per week.
 
 A LIC policy holder K Srinu (name changed) from Seethammadhara said he faced difficulty in paying his policy premium of 28,500 to LIC recently. As he ran out of cheques, he had to wait for two weeks to withdraw the amount. 
 
 "Just to pay Rs 28,500 to LIC, I was forced to visit my bank branch two times. I wonder why such a large public sector unit like the LIC has not yet come up with digital transaction facilities," policy holder Srinu said.
 
 In another case, P Ramesh (name changed) made a payment of Rs 42,853 at Srikakulam LIC branch towards the renewal of his lapsed LIC policy through a HDFC Bank cheque of Dwarakanagar branch. Within 24 hours, Ramesh got an SMS from the bank stating that the cheque was returned to the LIC branch for technical reasons. 
 
 "I went to the LIC branch to inquire about the problem. The LIC officials said some staff had scribbled on the cheque. Therefore, it was returned. I then approached HDFC Bank which suggested I withdraw the same amount in two weeks," Ramesh said. "If LIC had an ePoS machine, these problems would not have been there," he said.
 
 An irate LIC agent said, "Nowadays, every   successfully make transactions through ePoS, but LIC has not yet started."
 
 When contacted, LIC Visakhapatnam division senior divisional manager   admitted that till date they did not have ePoS machines. "We are waiting to receive the ePoS machines in our division. We will hopefully get them soon. We are currently accepting online transactions, cash and cheques as payment," Murlidar told TOI.
 
 The LIC Vizag division comprises 20 branches and 11 satellite offices in the three districts.
 
 Just to pay Rs 28,500 to LIC, I was forced to visit my bank branch two times. I wonder why such a large public sector unit like the LIC has not yet come up with digital transaction facilities
 
 Just to pay Rs 28,500 to LIC, I was forced to visit my bank branch two times. I wonder why such a large public sector unit like the LIC has not yet come up with digital transaction facilities
 
