NEW DELHI: The   ( ) on Monday issued notices to the   (MoEF) and the ministry of urban development (MoUD) on an application challenging a recent notification that exempts real estate projects of all sizes from the process of   ( ) and prior   before beginning construction. 

 NGT is also hearing another application against the same notification.
 
 The application filed by environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta which was heard on Monday highlights that the final notification issued on December 9, 2016 is “significantly different” compared to the draft notification which was published on April 29, 2016. “On a para-wise comparison of the two notifications… it is clear that the two are completely different in their import and effect.”
 
 The final notification states that the ‘consent to establish’ and ‘consent to operate’ under the provisions of the Air act 1981 and the Water act 1974 will not be required from the state pollution control boards for large building projects. But there was no mention of the exclusion of such projects from the statutory requirement of obtaining consents from pollution control boards under the Air and Water acts. In fact, the draft stated that ‘consent to operate’ is required for residential construction projects. Other clauses that were missing in the draft notification include provision of dealing with violation of environmental conditions under state laws and not under the provision of the environment protection act, air and water acts. 
 
 Constitution of an environmental cell under the local urban body which will apprise and approve building projects and accreditation of environmental auditors are additions made to the final notification.
 
 The application highlights that under current laws, the Centre must give 60 days’ time to any person for filing any objection to any notification which has been issued under the provision. “Even though the draft notification was issued in April 2016 for public scrutiny, it submitted that if the final notification has been substantially altered from what was put in public domain for comments and objection, then the whole objective of prior consultation is vitiated.” 
 
 Centre’s December notification has a "self-declaration" clause for smaller construction projects (less than 20,000 sq metres) which will ensure issuance of permission from urban local bodies. For larger projects of more than 20,000 sq metre size the environmental clearance and building permission will be given by urban local bodies simultaneously in an "integrated format." Prior EC was mandatory for construction projects larger than 20,000 sq metres under EIA notification 2006 but that has now been done away with.
 
 The   ( ) was the first urban body to make these changes in its building bye laws even before the draft notification was published in March 2016.
 
