RANCHI:   belongs to that special breed of batsmen who have the knack of evoking awe and exasperation in the same breath among connoisseurs of the sport.

 A capricious talent, Maxwell has been nothing short of an enigma for Australian cricket since his international debut against Afghanistan five summers back. Boasting a wide range of shots and the power to match it, `Big Show', as Maxwell is fondly called in cricketing circles, has often been dogged by inconsistency mainly due to poor shot selection.
 
 While he has been more of a regular in limited-overs fixtures for Australia, the right-hander's Test match returns have been anything but flattering. Since making his Test debut four years ago, against India in Hyderabad, Maxwell featured twice more in white flannels for the Baggy Green, before the ongoing Ranchi game gave him a fourth shot at redemption in the five-day version.
 
 Notwithstanding his success in the 2015 World Cup Down Under, Maxwell's failure to translate his limited-overs success in the longest format of the game has raised questions about his temperament and mindset. In six innings before Thursday's fine knock, the Victorian's top score was just 37.
 
 Disappointing indeed, given that his average in first-class cricket is a respectable 39.60 in 47 outings, including five centuries and 17 half-centuries.
 
 While all his Test matches have been in Asian conditions, Maxwell has often found himself fulfilling the role of an allrounder -unjustifiably so given his offspinners can, at best, be described as steady. With a shoulder injury forcing Mitchell Marsh to quit the tour, the focus was once again back on Maxwell.
 
 On a warm Thursday afternoon, the right-hander finally put up the big show long expected from his willow. A show be reft of extravagant strokes or mindless risks. An impeccable display with patience and purpose writ large over his unbeaten knock of 82.
 
 He smacked a couple of sixes and also pulled off a reverse sweep, but didn't present Ravichandran Ashwin & Co a window of opportunity .
 
 It was an extremely uncharacteristic innings, given the flair and flamboyance one associates with a Maxwell knock. But Team Australia would be only too delighted. The Big Show had finally arrived.
 
 
