Another Middleton   is all set to steal the limelight. On May 20, 33-year-old  , sister to Duchess of Cambridge, Kate, is slated to tie the knot with 41-year-old hedge fund tycoon,  . And the news has been churning up buzz long before the run up to D-Day. Having been declared as having the ‘sexiest derriere’ as maid of honour at her sister’s wedding in 2011, fashion circles are eagerly waiting for what she will wear to her own big day. A party planner and socialite, there’s also a lot of talk about the celebrations of what might be the most-talked about event of the summer.

 
 
 
 The wedding is going to be held at the beautiful 12-century St Mark’s Church in Englefield, Berkshire. As per the church’s website, it has a tower and spire, nave, chancel, south and north aisle. Resident priest, Rev Nick Wynne-Jones, is said to be officiating. The wedding will follow a cocktail reception and the evening reception and dinner will be held at the outdoor area of the Middleton family estate. As per reports, Pippa is creating a Glastonbury Festival-style bash for her wedding day in the grounds of the house in Bucklebury, seven miles away. A source said the bride wants a ‘relaxed, festival-infused party’ and is having yurts erected for guests to stay over. Guests will also be served fish and chips from a ‘1950s-style’ burger van. A source had said: “Pippa wants the evening in the style of a music festival.” 
 
 
  
  
 Keeping the unpredictable British weather rain in mind, Pippa has hired a 140-foot long and lavish £100,000 glass marquee, in case of rain. With see-through glass panels and a space to seat approximately 350 guests, there will more than enough space for seating, dining and dancing. Queen Elizabeth II is not expected to attend.
 
 
  
  
 Earlier, doubts arose as to whether Suits actress and Prince Harry’s girlfriend   would attend the main nuptials at the Church due to a certain ‘no ring, no bring’ policy that Pippa had put in place before her big day. As per that rule, unmarried and un-engaged partners cannot attend the nuptials so as to limit the number of guests at the parish. There was also speculation that she feared being overshadowed by the good-looking actress. But reports say Meghan will be at the wedding celebrations, considering her growing closeness to the prince and the family. Harry and Meghan showed off some PDA recently — cameras caught them sharing a kiss after a polo match. But Pippa’s policy will affect two important men — one, the bride’s brother James (30), who is said to be in a 
 relationship with actress/TV presenter Donna Air. Rumours say that she isn’t on the guest list owing to this policy. The other is the groom’s brother Spencer, whose girlfriend Vogue Williams has not been invited.
 
 
  
  
  has confirmed that Prince George and Princess Charlotte will take on official roles on the wedding day. The three-year-old prince will be a page boy and his two-year-old sister will be one of the bridesmaids at their aunt’s wedding. The best man is said to be Made in Chelsea star and James’ brother, Spencer Matthews. Buzz is that big sister Kate may not be maid of honour, opting instead to just do a reading, so as to let Pippa be the centre of attention. Other famous faces are set to attend as well, such as Ben Fogle and  .
 
 
 As per a bridal site that has factored in the expenses, report, Pippa’s wedding may cost as much as £250,000! With close to 350 guests, the venue’s huge, luxury marquee will no doubt protect guests considering the unreliable wet British weather in May. The marquee may also need more staffing and that will escalate catering costs.
 
 
  
  
 While the paparazzi has been trailing Ms Middleton for weeks now, in the hope of discovering which designer she will choose, the biggest speculation is about Brit designer Giles Deacon. Buzz is he may be athletic-framed Pippa’s choice for the wedding gown. Giles has previously done Abbey Clancy’s dress. Actresses   and   are said to be fans of his work.
 
 
 
  
  
 As per a report, Pippa has turned down huge magazine offers to cover her wedding. Instead, Millie Pilkington, private wedding photographer for brother –in-law William and sister Kate, will be the photographer that day.
 
 
 The secret to attaining a glow for her wedding day is out. Reports say Pippa had signed up for a three month-long bridal boot camp at a swanky London club, to prepare for her nuptials. Along with yoga, pilates and dance classes, the regimen stresses on healthy eating, meditation and gives access to top skincare experts. 
 
 
 To match the fancy glass marquee, guests will be provided three bespoke portable glass loos, which have luxe fittings — with porcelain basins, elaborate lighting, full-length mirrors and vacuum flushes.
 
 
 
