Choosing a course after school can be confusing as a simple no or yes can be career-changing. While a plethora of options at hand is convenient, reaching an informed decision could be cumbersome. To help students make a better choice, TOI lends a helping hand with 'Mission Admission' Today's   of Things.

 Despite its dystopian depiction of “simu lated reality“ engineered by machines more powerful than human beings, the premise ­ that technology will heavily influence human lives -on which The Matrix was made 18 years ago stands vindicated. Automation today is not an industrial policy, it is a domestic necessity .Simply put, we cannot do without smart gadgets, cloud space and gigabytes of high-speed data.
 
 To meet the daily needs of smart automation, engineers labour in labs crafting new-age machines that push boundaries of performance through innovation. Big-ticket government projects like smart cities and Digital India are banking on innovation and core areas like artificial intelligence (AI),  and internet of things (IoT) have emerged as trends that will expand in the coming years.
 
  IoT means the interconnection of computing devices through the Internet such that they can transmit data. A degree in computer science engineering without these options will soon become passé as educationists concur that this is where the global R&D trend is moving.
 
 According to   dean S Vaidhyasubramaniam, the IT industry is moving to the next level of innovation. “With stringent visa processes and tightened policies, students who want to study and work in places like the Bay Area (of California) will need to differentiate themselves now.Programming and database alone are outdated skills.“
 
 While IoT and AI are core engineering streams available for students at the undergraduate level, Vaidhyasubramaniam says reputed engineering institutions need to upgrade their curricula if they want their students to be market-ready . This would enable an IT student to learn sensors, data collection, analysis and visualisa tion. These are required to build a machine that can work “intuitive ly“, which is the goal of AI, IoT and machine learning.
 
 Institutes like IITs have a clus ter of projects involving these disciplines. “Take a smart city project on energy for example. It will need civil, electronic and   to work cohesively to design it. The project will require IoT which is an insti tute of opportunities,“ said Kama koti, professor, computer science department, IIT Madras.
 
 Experts say even the most con ventional organisations will pick up the utility of these technologies. “In the railways, there are attempts to introduce dynamic pricing of tickets and predict the time of arrival of a goods train. This requires an expert un derstanding of the analytics, ma chine learning, AI, cloud comput ing and IoT,“ said Kavi Mahesh, professor of computer science at Great Lakes University .
 
 Mahesh said AI and machine learning remain crucial for every computer science or IT student. “ A computer science graduate with no exposure to AI and ML is like a mechanical engineer who studied only steam engines,“ he said.
 
 Woven into the syllabus as elec tives and projects, these disci plines will help students to grow as per market requirements. “Blue chip firms like IBM and TCS are investing heavily in machine learning. They will hire engineers who have grounding in these dis ciplines. The work they outsource will be to startups that are keeping up with these tech trends,“ said Purushottaman of NASSCOM.
 
