THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state pollution control board which has often faced flak for levying exorbitantly high consent fees for sewage treatment plants (STPs) in residential apartment complexes has recommended a reduction in rates.The fee for renewal will be 10% of the consent fee which is granted before occupancy.

 For instance, if the fee for consent to operate an   is fixed as Rs 1 lakh, the renewal fee will be 10% of Rs 1 lakh, i.e, Rs, 10,000 only, unlike the present system where the actual amount paid at the time of installation has to be remitted again at the time of renewal of consent.
 
 At present, the consent fee is fixed depending upon capital investment involved in a project beginning from a capital investment of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1,000 crore and above. The apartment units which are categorised under Orange category often involve capital investment of more than Rs 10 crore. The consent fee for projects with capital investment of Rs 10-25 crore is Rs 60,000 and for the projects with a capital investment of Rs 25-50 crore, the consent fee is Rs 80,000. This fee has to be renewed upon expiry of validity period, which varies depending upon the capacity of the plant.
 
 The residents' associations of premium apartment buildings are often forced to shell out a major chunk of their financial resources towards renewal of consent to operate STP . This is done in addition to monthly electricity charges for running STP. “We have received so many requests to slash the consent fee. The recommendation to fix a new way of assessing renewal fee has been forwarded and we are awaiting official notification,'' said  , chairman, pollution control board.
 
 In 2013, Karnataka state pollution control board has drastically reduced the fee for consent to operate owing to growing demand from residents associations. The board revised the fee as Rs 250 per annum saving huge amounts of money for residents' associations treating them on par with those operated by urban local bodies. The rates for local bodies are way lower than those being charged for other industries run by private parties.
 
 The board is yet to decide on the demand by realtors to revise categorisation of apartment units from Orange to Green. For projects with capital investment of Rs 10-50 crores, consent fee varies from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 between   categories. The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has developed the criteria of categorization of industrial sectors based on the Pollution Index (PI) which is a function of the emissions (air pollutants), effluents (water pollutants), hazardous wastes generated and consumption of resources.
 
 Industrial sectors having PI score of 60 and above come under Red category while those having PI score of 41 to 59 are categorised under Orange category . Sectors having PI score of 21 to 40 are included in the Green category and those with score upto 20 are classified as White category .
 
