Visakhapatnam: Women empowerment and liberation has been a hot topic for discussion and debate in various seminars as well as on online and offline forums. But are education and economic independence the sole parameters of women empowerment or do various taboos and restrictions still confront the so-called empowered women?

 Speaking to a few women from Vizag, who are professionals and financially independent, reveals that empowerment has a different meaning for these women. It’s not misusing one’s freedom in the name of women’s liberty or neglecting one’s duties and responsibilities. It’s not about competition with men, but complementing by following a balanced approach and role sharing. At the same time, women feel there’s a need for change in the mind-set and attitude of men as well as doing away with discrimination.
 
 For Radhika Sunkara, entrepreneur and director of Lacuna, a manufacturing unit, “Equal contribution and sharing of responsibility is very important as men and women should complement each other and not compete. I believe empowerment should be such that the family structure is strengthened so that children grow up in a secured environment with parental support and not grow up as disturbed adults. Women too are contributing financially to the family income and working outdoors with their male counterparts, while the men too should contribute to household work and share responsibilities of bringing up children. This way, a balance can be maintained for a better family and healthy society. But sadly, in many families, this element of balancing and sharing responsibility is missing and the onus is solely put on the women. B Ratna Kumari, director of Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies, Andhra University, said, “In our patriarchal set up, policymakers, politicians and bureaucrats still want to dominate and deride successful women, as if a successful and empowered woman is a kind of rival or threat to them. They still like women who are submissive. Pro-women government policies and policymakers are required as well as mental and attitudinal change in men,” she averred.
 
 
