THANE: The alleged   of an  ,   (55), and three others who were extradited from Kenya to the US to face charges there, were produced and arraigned at the   (SDNY), said sources from the   who were in touch with   (DEA) officials.

 Goswami is also the prime accused in the Rs 2,000 crore drug bust case, while most of his aides are behind bars.
 
 “As alleged, the four defendants who arrived on Tuesday in New York ran a Kenyan drug trafficking organisations with global ambitions. For their alleged distribution of literal ly tons of narcotics--heroin and methamphetamine--around the globe, including to America, they will now face justice in a New York federal court,'' said Manhattan US attorney Preet Bharara.
 
 Along with Goswami, those extradited include two sons of slain drug baron, Ibra him (28) and Bak tash Akasha (40), and Gulam Husse in, a Pakistani.
 
 The four were arrested in a sting operation by DEA officials posing as Colombian drug dealers on November 9, 2014, in Mombasa, Kenya, pursuant to a US request, based on charges filed in SDNY. A day later, a superseding indictment --a formal charge of a serious crime--also charged them with narcotics importation offences. It was based on their delivery of 99 kg of heroine and two kg of methampheta mine in Kenya, which they intended to import into the US, a release by the US Justice Department said. While Goswami was apprehended in Mombasa, his associates were nabbed from other parts of Kenya.
 
 All four were taken to the US on a private charter plane, where they will face trial, said a Thane police officer. Baktash and Ibrahim are Kenyan nationals, while Goswami is an Indian national and resident of Kenya. The Justice Department said they were charged with four counts of conspiracy to import and distribute the drugs.Each count carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison and a maximum sentence of life in prison. It made it clear that the “charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty".
 
