CHENNAI: On a crowded   platform, Virali Modi sat in her wheelchair wondering how she would get into her train coach through the narrow entrance. Two porters came to help, but as they carried the teenager in, they began groping her.
 
 A petrified Virali didn’t react as she feared they may drop her. This was in 2008, when she came back home for treatment from the US where she had been raised and where she had become paralysed. It was the first time she faced such exploitation and it would not be the last.
  
 Nearly a decade later, her petition on Change.org, demanding that the railways and the ministry for women and child development take   has churned a transformation. On Wednesday, the   for Women presented her with an award for sparking a transformation, but Virali, now 25, vows to continue the   and an accessible country.
  
 On February 20, Southern Railway chief commercial manager Ajeet Saxena released an official order to procure foldable wheelchairs and portable ramps to be in use by March 1. Virali’s petition, with more than one lakh signatures, was brought to Saxena’s notice by an officer in Thiruvananthapuram which became the first station in the country to introduce these facilities.   has two foldable wheelchairs for women and has ordered 20 more.
  
 Two days ago, railway minister Suresh Prabhu tweeted that they were making stations and trains disabled-friendly.
  
 Virali says the emotional scars of the first incident in Mumbai remain. “There is lack of privacy (in trains), and the fact that society is not sensitised towards those with disabilities is the problem, and I want to help solve it.”
 
 Virali, who stayed back in Mumbai for treatment, is a writer for an NGO. “I always wanted to talk about accessibility in trains and my molestation, but I never found the proper platform to speak about it,” said the runner-up of Miss Wheelchair India pageant, 2014.
  
 “When the   government acknowledged disability and minister Prabhu came out with the Tejas Express, I felt it was the perfect time because the government was listening. When I started my petition, I gained supporters instantly, and many people shared their harrowing incidents, that were similar to mine,” she said.
  
 At Change.org, hundreds of women use their powerful personal stories to start campaigns and mobilise people in support of the cause, said Preethi Herman, head of the portal.
 
