AURANGABAD: The   are all set to use   system for newly-planted saplings at various footpaths and dividers in eight different locations to help them survive the summer.

 The   ( ) has built 14 bore wells across the city of which at eight locations enough water will be made available for making drip irrigation feasible. This is for the first time where the civic body has decided to use drip irrigation system for plantation.
 
 Vijay Patil, garden superintendent in the AMC, told TOI that a private agency assigned to beautify islands and road dividers at fourteen locations is experimenting with the concept. “With an investment of around Rs 7 lakh, the agency is laying drip irrigation system. We hope that it would prove beneficial and help us save the saplings,” he said.
 
 “Currently, we have no other option but to take care of the saplings with the help of the tanker-supplied water, which is a costly affair,” he added.
 
 Some of the locations were the facility is being developed are Kranti Chowk to Railway Station, Kala Ganapati to Harsul T-point, Seven Hill to Dargaha, Amerpreet Chowk to Dargaha and Akashwani Chowk to Trimurti Chowk.
 
 Shaikh Habib, owner of the private agency and president of  , told TOI that the facility would be put to use in the next 1-12 days. “Recently we built bore wells at 14 points of which at eight locations we have been receiving satisfactory quantity of water. We are looking at providing water to more than 5,000 saplings,” he said.
 
 Under the beautification of roads, footpaths and islands, the municipal authorities have planted over 25,000 saplings at strategic points. But 60-70% of the saplings die every summer due to water shortage.
 
 In the backdrop of deficient rainfall and subsequent water scarcity in the city, the civic body has decided to help the newly-planted saplings survive with the active support of NGOs, private agencies and citizens.
 
 The authorities are encouraging volunteers to take part in plantation drives and watering plants on a regular basis. Interestingly, every year the civic body implements tree plantation drives all over the city, but it could survive less than 30% of the total saplings.
 
