It’s peculiar when tourist season and election time coincide. Every evening these days, in clubs, shacks and wedding halls around Goa, before one can even utter the words ‘The night is young!’ the night is over.
 
  “It’s frustrating,” said the owner of a popular restaurant in south Goa. “Last week, eight cops entered my premises and began checking the glasses of our diners!” That wasn’t all. Well before 10pm, the karaoke professional hired for the evening was asked to stop—midway through a song.
  
  A diner at the scene then witnessed a strange altercation—“after a heated argument between the performer and the cops, they admitted they ended his performance before the deadline,” she told TOI. “But, after the argument was dragged on past 10pm, the cops told him it was now too late to do anything.”
  
  Another table at another restaurant. A family having starters were yet to order dinner when they were abruptly informed the restaurant was shutting down. “The owner was apologetic and asked if he could parcel our food,” the father, preferring anonymity, said. Some restaurant owners have gone to the extent of displaying reminders on every table that alcohol won’t be served after 10pm.
  
  This is common across Goa. Up on the beach belt, everything was as usual—or so it seemed. Tourists and locals were out in large numbers, and traffic snarls ruled the night. The music and alcohol stopped at 10pm, but patrons stuck around. “The lights are on, the people are there, but what’s missing is music in the air.”
  
   , a regular on the nightclub circuit, questioned the point of the whole operation. “Goa is a tourist destination,” he said. “Almost 90% of those visiting the coastal belt are tourists. How are they going to influence the elections? The government must do a re-think on such rules. Some of the rules enforced for the Uttar Pradesh elections cannot be applied to Goa.”
  
    concurs. “The election code of conduct has definitely affected business on the beach,” said the general secretary of the  . “Most tourists come out of their hotel rooms at 8.30-10pm. By 10pm, the beach is flooded, and at that time we can’t serve alcohol. Why should tourists suffer? Even in dry states, a tourist is allowed to carry a bottle of alcohol with government permission. The election code of conduct rules should exempt tourists as well as locals who have a family celebration. It should strictly target only those who have something to do with elections.”
  
  For now, family celebrations are being affected quite badly.  , an MC and event manager, told TOI of a quick-fire wedding in south Goa last week. “The couple arrived early, but the guests didn’t turn up on time. I had to plan the wedding in such a way that I had to wrap it up within one and a half hour. The music deadline was 10pm, while the bar timing was 11pm. But, we had to end the wedding with the music deadline. The band was instructed not to take a break between sessions.”
  
  For Charmaine D’Mello, a Goan working in Dubai who made a special trip back home to attend the weddings of two close friends, the lesson has been learned — “I am very disappointed,” she said. “Both weddings had to end by 10.30pm. One thing I know is that I will never get married during election time.”
  
  The code’s impact is especially harsh on weekday weddings. “If you have a wedding on a weekday, it is very difficult for people to reach on time as they come in after work,” said psychologist  . “The maximum duration that a couple and their guests can enjoy is two hours. It’s not fair to the couple, who have spent so much.”
  
  Henriques also points out that the election code of conduct has taken a toll on nightlife. “You go out for a movie which ends at 11pm, and there is no place open to grab a bite after that. Forget the alcohol, at least restaurants should be permitted to stay open,” she says.
  
  And she speaks for many when she says that locals have suffered. “People should have been made aware of the code of conduct period well in advance, so they could plan ahead,” she said. “The fact that demonetization and the election code of conduct came in one after another in quick succession affected Goa very badly.”
