 The just-launched luxury SUV   based on the   platform is just the beginning of   Motors’ plans to grab a substantial chunk of the SUV pie that is currently dominated by rival   & Mahindra (M&M). In doing so, it also aims to dislodge M&M from the no.3 spot in the Indian auto market and grab the coveted position.
 
  While Hexa is the second SUV in its stable and joins the  , the company is set to launch two more vehicles in the segment over the next 36 months. While one of them is the compact SUV   that the company showcased at the   in February 2016, the other is a top-of-the-line luxury SUV that is currently taking shape at design studios in UK, Italy and India.
  
  According to a company source, the premium SUV is based on the   Discovery Sport L550 platform and will follow a similar architecture while integrating Tata’s Impact Design philosophy. The Land Rover team is playing a lead role in the aesthetics for the premium vehicle. The SUV will be positioned above the Safari and slot into a space below the SUVs sold by global auto manufacturers like Toyota,   and  . “It will be the most premium vehicle yet to carry the Tata badge,” a company official said.
  
  At the other end of the spectrum,   will launch entry-level SUV Nexon in 2018. While the premium SUV that is expected to be priced upward of Rs 20 lakh will be powered by a 2 litre diesel engine, the sub-Rs 7 lakh Nexon will have a 1.2 litre petrol and 1.5 litre diesel engines under the bonnet. The car will get different drive modes: City, Eco and Sport that is also offered in the Bolt, Zest and  .
  
  While Tiago is currently doing good volumes and has been key in the company’s turnaround, the Nexon along with the yet-to-be named compact sedan will be the volume drivers. “These will help catapult the company past M&M to the third spot in the roll out by 2019, said Tata Motors passenger vehicle business unit vice-president (sales) S N  . The trio will be crucial in Tata Motors adding a further 4.5% marketshare in the next three years to notch up 10% from 5.5% at present.
  
  While the Indian auto industry grew 8.6% between April and December 2016, the company posted a robust 17.3% growth, riding the demand for Tiago. With the launch of the compact sedan codenamed Kite5, Burman expects the demand to further accelerate before shifting gears to race mode when Nexon is launched a year later.
