PANAJI: It was a dispute between two neighbours in Salcete over three   that ended up in the high court of Bombay at Goa. And the high court, after hearing arguments of both the neighbours decided to uphold the order of the tree officer, who had directed that a net be put around all the trees to prevent the falling of coconut and leaves.

 Fearing for the safety of his life and property from the three coconut trees, Menino Santan Fernandes had approached the tree officer, who directed his neighbor Santosh R. Prabhu Gaonkar to put a net around all the trees to prevent injury to persons.
 
 But Gaonkar challenged the order in the high court, questioning the directive of the tree officer and said the official could not exercise the powers under section 12-A of the Preservation of Trees Act (PTA), 1984, as the trees were neither in a ruinous state nor there was an imminent danger of the trees falling. Gaonkar also said since it was “a purely private civil dispute”, the provisions under   could not be invoked.
 
 But justice M S Sonak dismissed the petition challenging the order of the tree officer passed in 2015 and observed: “Directions issued by the tree officer do not require the petitioner to cut down the coconut trees. The impugned order merely directs the petitioner to put a strong net to all the trees, so as to prevent the falling of coconuts and leaves, so as to prevent any injury to a person living or carrying on business in the neighbourhood or passing by. Such a direction is consistent with the doctrine of proportionality.”
 
 While holding that provisions of section 12-A of the PTA are not to be invoked to settle purely private civil disputes, the judge noted that section 12-A itself provides that where a tree or portion of a tree is likely to fall and thereby cause injury to persons living or carrying on business in the neighbourhood or passing by, the tree officer has the jurisdiction to make suitable orders.
 
 “Merely because such neighbours may be the complainants, it cannot be said that this is a case of settlement of purely private civil dispute,” the judge said.
 
 During the hearing of the case, Gaonkar’s lawyer Shailesh Redkar argued that that even the reports of the zonal agriculture officer do not show that the trees in question were in a ruinous state or likely to fall. Redkar argued that the object of section 12-A of the PTA is not to enable the parties to settle their private civil disputes, for which, the remedy of the parties is before the competent civil court.
 
 But counsel for Fernandes, M Correa pointed out that the range forest officer in his report of November 18, 2013 had clearly stated that the three coconut trees were bent towards the property of Fernandes and might cause danger to life and property.
 
 She said there was no necessity of entire tree as such to be in a ruinous condition or likely to fall for the purposes of invocation of the provisions contained in section 12-A of the PTA. Correa also said it was sufficient if even a part of the tree was likely to fall and thereby cause injury to persons to invoke the provisions contained in section 12-A of the PTA.
 
 WHAT IS SECTION 12-A OF PTA
 
 It shall be lawful for the tree officer or the deputy collectors having jurisdiction over their respective areas, if it appears to him at any time that any tree, including coconut tree, over any land or its branch or a part thereof is in ruinous state or is in such condition that it is likely to fall and thereby cause injury to a person living or carrying on business in the neighbourhood or passerby or to a building or house or any public place, he may, by written order require the person owning or possessing such tree to lop or cut down such tree or portion of a tree, which is in such condition that it is likely to fall and thereby cause injury to persons living or carrying on business in the neighbourhood or passing by.
 
 
