PUNE: The state education department’s   for students appearing for the secondary school certificate (SSC, Std X) board examinations for the past two years have not resulted in the choice of streams suggested by the tests, experts said.

 The department decided to conduct an aptitude exam to make students aware of their inclination and strengths so that they can make an educated choice while choosing different streams in the First Year Junior College based on their assessment in the aptitude test.
 
 Experts said the choice of stream is still decided by parents who choose for their wards. Engineering and medicine are still very dear to parents and the aptitude test results stand overruled.
 
 Shikha Rambal, a student who passed out of St Joseph's School with 97.20%, said, "I have decided to take up science as I wish to join the IITs. The state aptitude test showed that I should take up fine arts."
 
 The test includes multiple choice questions. Its result last year was given in a detailed form under five categories -technical, humanities, health and life sciences, commerce and fine arts. This year, the state board added agriculture and defence to the categories.
 
 A graph in the descending order with the course reflecting the student's aptitude getting the highest point is given. There is an interpretation of the graph with a line of advice from the counsellor about the course the student should take.
 
 Rishi Lodha, a student of  , said, "My result in the aptitude test was vocational education, but I decided on the science stream as I want to pursue pure sciences. My father is a scientist, so it is natural that I would take up the same career."
 
 Former chairman of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Vasant Kalpande said, “I don't have much faith in aptitude tests. Students can take their own decisions and they don't need such tests. The aptitude tests may be useful to some extent for students who don't have such an ability. The experiences of students I observed since last 25 years are mixed ones."
 
 Over 16 lakh students appearing for the SSC examinations took the aptitude test in February. It was a 40-minute exam with 150 multiple-choice questions. The content was designed in seven languages.
 
 Education expert Suryakant Kulkarni said aptitude tests are not useful. “The test is online and not a real test. Specific tests have to be conducted which takes place over a period of time to gauge the aptitude. It is not possible to know the aptitude in such a short time and that too online."
 
 
