CHENNAI: The tradition of rock-cut temple architecture in India started during the time of emperor Asoka (300 BC) in and around ancient Magada and spread widely to the western part of the country later. But, it took a long time to arrive in south India. According to scholar S Rajavelu even though the cultural and trade contacts between north and the south occurred in the pre-Christian era, it did not affect the native religious beliefs of Tamils and the new religions such as Buddhism, Jainism and Brahmanism and their rituals did not intrude the faith of the people of Tamils till 4th or 5th century AD. 

 “The political changes in the Tamil country during the middle of the 4th Century AD witnessed a new form of faith in the religious order resulting in the introduction of a new type of permanent shelter that is rock-cut mandapa with cellas (inner chamber) for gods of Brahmanical faith in the Tamil country,” said Rajavelu, dean and professor, department of under-water archaeology, Tamil University, Thanjavur. 
 
 Built by   king Mahendravarman-I (AD 600-630), the   rock-cut cave temple in Villupuram district is considered the oldest of this kind in Tamil Nadu. But there are different versions on this. “Based on the inscription, scholars interpreted that Mahendravarman introduced a new type of temple architecture by avoiding materials such as bricks, timbers, metal and mortar for the gods Brahma, Isvara and vishnu. 
 
 “This shows that the temples in Tamil Nadu prior to Pallava period were mostly built of materials such as bricks, mortar, metal and timbers. However, the inscription does not indicate that Mahendravarman introduced a new type of temple architecture for the first time i.e., rock-cut architecture in Tamil country,” said Rajavelu, who was speaking on “South Indian Temple Architecture” at a two-day seminar held recently in Hosur.
 
 Rajavelu said there were a few rock-cut temples scooped out in the Pandya region prior to Mahendravarman’s period, but those were just rock-cut chambers without pillars and facade (porch) in front. “But these are the models of rock-cut tradition in Tamil Nadu,” he said “The upper rock-cut type temple at Tirumayam is a fine example of the early simple form of the rock-cut temple dated to middle of 5th century AD. The rock-cut temple at Kurattiyarai in Kanyakumari district is a similar form of rock cut chamber and can be assigned to the same period. One can see the next stage of development at the rock-cut temple in Aralipatti in Tirupattur.”
 
