DHARWAD: The fifth edition of  , the three-day literary festival got off to a colourful start at the Golden Jubilee Auditorium in   in Dharwad on Friday.

 Writers, artists, intellectuals and literary enthusiasts from different parts of the state and across the country thronged the festival venue. Inaugurating the event, noted poet   Ahmed said cultural and literary programmes help society understand and spread knowledge about heritage and culture, besides promoting harmony and providing an impetus to innovative thinking.Stating that Dharwad has been the birthplace for several proKannada movements and also the one for unification of Kanna da-speaking areas into Karnataka, Nisar Ahmed hailed the organizers of Sahitya Sambhrama for providing equal space to proponents of different ideologies without bias.
 
 Referring to opposition by some senior writers to the entry of corporate honchos into the literary world, Nisar Ahmed said there was nothing wrong in employees and leaders of the corporate sector producing literature as they too have sentiments and the right to express.
 
 “Creating literature is not the domain of only the oppressed.Those in the corporate world too have struggled in the early stages of their life to reach a comfortable position. Just because they have become rich should not prevent them from entering the literary world,“ he asserted.
 
 Giving an insight into the corporate sector through their works, readers get a taste of a different work and it can enrich the Kannada literature, he said.
 
 President of the Sahitya Sambhrama organizing committee Giraddi Govindaraj welcomed the gathering and said the literary festival has been getting wide support and response from literary buffs every year.
 
 Uproar over remarks on Kalburgi murder probe
 
 A discussion on left-wing and right-wing ideologies that was held at the Dharwad Sahitya Sambhrama on Friday, threatened to get out of control, when one of the panellists remarked about the investigation into the murder of rationalist M M Kalburgi.
 
 Some of the audience members took exception when Manjunath Ajampur, in response to a query, said the CID had concluded that Kalburgi's murder was the outcome of a property feud. The audience started to shout and opined that Manjunath ought not to make such remarks when the CID was yet to submit its report. On hearing the clamour within the auditorium, police rushed inside, but the organizers were able to bring the situation under control.
 
 Although Manunath said he was merely relaying what he had read in a few news reports, the audience refused to heed his words, and he was forced to retract his statement.   and   were the other panellists in the discussion, while Raghavendra Patil acted as moderator.
 
