HYDERABAD: Hyderabad may have played a crucial role on all fronts for hundreds of years but the city does not have an exclusive museum to showcase its history, culture, traditions, customs, jewellery, cuisine, fabrics and personalities. Hyderabad boasts of some of the important museums in India including the Salar Jung Museum (SJM) of international fame.

  What it lacks is a   where the city's ancient, medieval and modern facets should be showcased for the young generation and tourists from around the world. 
 
 In fact, Hyderabad does have a 'city museum'   in a corner of the   in the   of   in the old city. But it showcases only a few facets of old Hyderabad and thus it cannot genuinely qualify as a city museum. The proposal of an extensive city museum has been hanging fire for almost a decade.
 
  Things appeared to move in the right direction in February 2010 when the municipal administration department directed the city civic body to hand over the Dar-ul-Shifa premises to Salar Jung Museum for establishment of a city museum, besides housing extension galleries of SJM. But political pressure forced the state government to keep the ambitious project on hold.
 
 In 2012 then chief minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy promised to allocate 10 acres of land for the proposed city museum in the vicinity of Taramati Baradari. However, things did not move forward due to the agitation for separate Telangana state. With the state government unable to hand over the Dar-ul-Shifa land to the SJM authorities, heritage activists now demand allocation of 10 acres of land near Taramati Baradari.
 
 "The history of Hyderabad is very old. In fact, it predates the Kakatiya rulers, who built the Golconda fort. The city has a number of ancient sites that date back to more than 50,000 years. 
 
 Thanks to the presence of the river Musi, the area around it has been the home for our ancestors. The city has a few megalithic burial sites. Then there are the artefacts of the Kakatiyas, the   and the Asaf Jahis. These collections are spread here and there. It's high time all these artefacts should be brought under one roof to form the city museum," said Salar Jung Museum board member Syed Zakir Hussain.
 
 He said the city museum as promised by the municipal department should be under the control of Salar Jung Museum. The city museum should also showcase wax or bronze modes of eminent personalities of Hyderabad. The city's contribution to science, technology, industry, medicine, education and space as also its exquisite jewellery, mouthwatering cuisine, gold and silver embroidered fabrics and the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of religious tolerance should be exhibited. 
 
