After serving as an associate producer on the feature length documentary Black Sheep,  's 24-year-old daughter Krishna is now   bound. But unlike her elder brother, Tiger, the star kid is working behind the scenes and is currently serving as an assistant director on his upcoming film,  . And while she admits to initially having been sceptical about her first big Bollywood project, she's grown to enjoy her job. However, she's keen to get into production. 'I have a BA degree in Film Production and have worked on music videos and short films,' she offers.

 When asked if she's ever considered an acting gig since she comes from a family of actors, Krishna says, 'It's a `no' as of now but you never know. Once you're an actor, it's difficult to live your life freely. I'm not ready to let go of my freedom so early.'
 
 Is she meted out special treatment on the Munna Michael sets? 'I wasn't sure what I wanted to do, so I am grateful to Sabbir sir (Khan, director) for letting me come on-board. It's even more special because I get to work with Tiger so closely. Sabbir sir takes out time to mentor his assistant directors no matter how busy he is. It's my first film so right now my job is to just absorb what's happening on sets,' she explains, adding, 'The biggest lesson I've learnt is patience. There are so many different personalities you deal with and there's so much hard work that goes into a film.'
 
 And what's it like to work with a sibling? Krishna reveals that while they always look out for each other, she's also Tiger's biggest critic. 'No one is as blunt with him as I am.We reflect on our day when we're back home, analysing what I did wrong or what he could have done better at work,' she smiles, waxing eloquent about her brother's professionalism. 'Tiger is dedicated, focussed and disciplined in general. Growing up, he was a focused sportsman. A lot of people don't realise that he's been working at it since he was three years old, whether it is martial arts or gymnastics. He's never given up so his success is definitely inspiring but not surprising.'
 
 Her favourite part of Munna Michael is watching Tiger with co-star  . 'They complement each other because they're such different actors,' she signs off.
 
