CHANDIGARH:   will be formed   related to the matter of the   seeking sanction to   of the university in an alleged forgery case. Sources said that the since the response of the chief vigilance commission (CVC) was that the case of the senior professor has been treated as “deviation from the commission’s advice”, it was not clearly stated what the deviation was. Hence, a committee will be formed to consolidate documents and submit a report on the same. 

 The sources said that the matter was briefly discussed and it was decided that a committee would be formed in this matter. It was also discussed in the meeting that since the senior professor did not have signature on the land recorders of the Jaipur college, which were found to be forged, how he can be prosecuted on that account. 
 
 The case dates back to April 8, 2008, when the senior professor was appointed as an honorary expert member of the scrutinizing committee by the North-West Regional Office (NWRO) of the AICTE at its local office here. One of the applications came from a college in Jaipur for screening to check its land documents. Since the senior professor was an academician and did not hold expertise in checking such documents, he recommended the case for further processing, provided it was verified by the hearing committee of the AICTE in New Delhi. Subsequently, the vigilance agencies found that the signatures on one of the stamps of the deputy commissioner and the authorized officer were forged. It was in this context that the chief vigilance officers of the AICTE and MHRD and the CBI asked the university for sanction to prosecute the senior professor.
 
 When the matter was tabled in the syndicate and senate in 2012, it was resolved that the sanction for prosecution should not be granted. The senior professor had, however, told TOI that the Supreme Court had exonerated the management of the college of all charges and the land documents of the college were found genuine. The senior professor said that he had asked to get the documents erified and stated that “please verify from the hearing committee based on the photocopy of the documents”.
 
 
