NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   will hit the campaign trail on Friday and address a public meeting at PAP Ground, Jalandhar, in Punjab, where the BJP-SAD alliance is locked in a tough triangular contest with Congress and AAP.

 A day later, Modi will visit the border state again to address another   district on Sunday before taking a break for the budget session commencing on January 31. The Kotkapura rally will be managed by SAD. Sources said Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah will campaign extensively in the five poll-bound states and highlight the achievements of the central government. The party has not announced chief ministerial candidates in four states other than Punjab, where CM Parkash Singh Badal-led Akali Dal leads the alliance government. 
 
 A large number of senior politicians and Union ministers will pitch in, showcasing how the central government remained untainted in two-and-a-half years contrary to the UPA dispensation which witnessed several scams. Party members will highlight the government’s zero tolerance for corruption, which was BJP’s main poll plank in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Arun Jaitley, Ramlal, Narendra Tomar and Avinash Rai Khanna are the other senior members slotted to campaign in Punjab. Most senior members are already in campaign mode as Shah has addressed rallies in Goa and Rajnath Singh is touring Punjab. Besides, a large number of OBC members including UP unit president Keshav Prasad Maurya, Swami Prasad Maurya and OBC Morcha chief Dara Singh have been asked to hold ‘nukkad’ rallies in their respective regions in UP. 
 
 They have been asked to travel mostly by road as it helps in better interactions with common people. Naming former CM Kalyan Singh’s son and Etah MP Rajveer Singh as a star campaigner shows that BJP is roping in all possible politicians who can consolidate the OBC votes which the party members believe will be decisive. Party members are optimistic of the support of upper castes and also hope to make inroads among Dalits. Kalyan Singh remains the most popular Lodh member and reviving his legacy will help the party in UP’s western, central and Bundelkhand regions. 
 
 Meanwhile, Shah will release the party manifesto for the UP polls on Saturday. It is learnt that the launch of the manifesto will be a major event. The manifesto will focus on empowerment of Dalits and most backwards classes.
 
