ALAPPUZHA: The disgruntled leaders of Bharat Dharma Jana Sena ( ) launched a scathing attack on   and  , as the latter failed to smooth the ruffled feathers of the party floated by SNDP Yogam supremo  . The discussions regarding snapping its ties with the BJP has been progressing in the party, which alleges that the saffron party failed to keep its promises.

 BDJS president  , “We are completely disappointed with our position in the NDA and the attitude of BJP state leadership towards us. They are not giving any consideration to us. We demanded posts in corporations and boards under the NDA government, to which they turned a blind eye,” he said.
 
 However, he clarified that the party would stand with the front in the coming elections too.
 
 According to Mahessan K K, general secretary of BDJS, the BJP leaders were behaving like dictators when comes to decision making. “They are not willing to listen to our opinion. They have set up NDA units at district level and in assembly constituencies. But our members were never considered. They also avoided other leaders in the NDA like C K Janu and her community. They deliberately ignored dalits and adivasis,” he said.
 
 Tushar also pointed out that they had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he visited Kollam, to name the Central University of Kerala after Sree Narayan Guru, but in vain. “None of our demands were fulfilled. If they address our issues in coming days all, we will work with the BJPand NDA wholeheartedly, ”said Thushar.
 
 It was on December 25, 2015, that the Yogam launched its political outfit, during the culmination of Natesan’s 16- day Samathwa Munnetta Yatra to unite Hindu caste outfits ensuring equal rights and justice for all.
 
 BDJS, which joined hands with the BJP and became a constituent of the NDA, was embroiled in controversy right from its inception. Two cases have been registered against Natesan so far, one for alleged communal hate speech and another for alleged irregularities in a micro-finance scheme run by SNDP Yogam.
 
 Natesan’s reaction on the financial aid given by the government to the family of an autorickshaw driver, Naushad, who died while trying to save two migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh also snowballed into a controversy. A case of promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth and language was registered against him.
 
