NEW DELHI: Over two decades old and much criticised for its opaqueness, the   collegium headed by Chief Justice J S Khehar is expected to get a dose of transparency soon in addition to evolving basic criteria for selection of judges to the higher judiciary.

 The judges in the collegium are Justices Khehar, Dipak Misra, J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi and Madan B Lokur. Interestingly, three of them — Justices Khehar, Chelameswar and Lokur — were part of the five-judge constitution bench which struck down the   (NJAC) and revived the collegium system. 
 
 But all three had said that the collegium system, though better than NJAC to protect the independence of judiciary, had been criticised for lack of transparency and lack of criteria in selecting judges for superior courts.
 
 The collegium headed by former CJI T S Thakur had faced problems in deciding names for appointment to the SC as Justice Chelameswar had demanded that views of collegium members be recorded in writing on those in the zone of consideration. 
 
 When this was turned down, Justice Chelameswar decided not to attend collegium meetings. However, he continued to express his opinion in writing on the files of persons considered for judgeship by the other members. With the change of composition of the collegium in the last month, a majority now feels that views of members should be recorded on the files on those considered for the post of judge.
 
 Despite the NDA government appointing a record 126 judges to HCs, the vacancy position is at an alarming 43%. To add to the woes, the SC, with a sanctioned strength of 31 judges, including the CJI, is operating with 23.
 
 Filling up the vacancies will require fast action from the collegium. The panel’s first meeting headed by   this week discussed modalities and procedures to be adopted in considering persons for appointment as judges. The common thread that emerged was to expeditiously inject transparency into the collegium’s functioning without hurting the reputation of those in the zone of consideration. 
 
 The judges in the collegium are aware that the moment it is known that a person is being considered for appointment as a judge, hundreds of baseless complaints are made to scuttle his chances. Keeping this in mind, the collegium has to evolve a mechanism to ensure that infusion of transparency does not harm the reputation of those under consideration.
 
 Apart from selection of judges, one of the major tasks before the five senior-most judges of the SC, including the CJI, is finalisation of the memorandum of procedure (MoP), which has been shuttling between the collegium and the government for nearly a year.
 
 Law minister   believes the new CJI needs some time to streamline the process. He said the government was eager to cooperate with the judiciary to find an early solution to pending issues, including finalising names recommended for Allahabad HC. The government had sent back the names despite these having been reiterated by the collegium then headed by Justice Thakur.
 
