MUMBAI:  , accused of murdering her daughter  , has questioned her son’s claims to his sister’s property. Mekhail Bora has made an application before a Guwahati court seeking grant of probate in respect to the 2012 will made by his deceased maternal grandmother Durgaranee Bora. A probate is a court order that declares a deceased’s will as legally valid. 

 The district court in Guwahati last week directed   to file her objections if any, on March 27. The objections could be made in person or through her advocate. On Thursday, Indrani, who was present before the special CBI court in the city conducting the murder trial, said her mother’s will nowhere mentions that in the event of Sheena’s death her share of the property would go to Mekhail.
 
 She further told the CBI court that the original copy of the will was in the custody of the CBI. The investigating agency in turn said the document was in the court’s custody. The court stated that if required, an attested copy of the will be made available to Indrani. The CBI court adjourned the trial proceedings to March 31 in light of the Bombay HC order staying the trial for two weeks. 
 
 Durgaranee, who was ailing for a few years, died of natural causes at her Guwahati home in October 2015, over a month after Indrani’s arrest in the murder case. Her husband   died in December last year. 
 
 In a will dated April 30, 2012, Durgaranee bequeathed a plot of land along with a two-storey house at Guwahati to both her grandchildren. Also willed were two more structures present on the plot. The will describes the structures as “Assam Type Houses”, a style of homes indigenous to the area.
 
 The application states that after Indrani left the family, Durgaranee and Upendra Kumar legally adopted their grandchildren in 1992. It also states that the 2012 will revoked an earlier will made in 2009. Unlike the 2009 will, the new version bequeathed a major portion of the property to Mekhail, leaving a substantially smaller portion for Sheena. The application said this was done after Durgaranee was displeased with Sheena’s decision to marry Indrani’s stepson  . The application states that while the main house on the plot was to go to Mekhail, the two Assam Type Houses were to be given to Sheena. 
 
 
