BHUBANESWAR: The   (EOW) of the state crime branch has prepared a list of around 120  , who were paid hefty commissions for collecting money from gullible investors, for interrogation. 

  The move coincided with an EOW team visiting Kolkata on Friday to extract more information against Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu, currently in a four-day custody of the probe agency.
 
 "We will interrogate those agents who were being paid huge sums. They were getting at least 25 percent commission on each collection. Kundu told us that his company collected nearly Rs 490 crore in Odisha and refunded Rs 130 crore to the depositors," special director general (crime) B K Sharma said. 
 
 Rose Valley had mobilised over 300 agents and opened 65 branches across Odisha to collect deposits from people.
 
  EOW sources said at least 4 lakh depositors in the state had invested in the company between 2007 and 2013 with the hope of getting hefty returns. 
 
 In Kolkata, a five-member EOW team headed by a DSP questioned Kundu's chartered accountant and got a list of those who had invested in the chit fund company in Odisha. The EOW, though, refused to divulge the exact number of depositors mentioned in the list. 
 
 In a related development, the EOW is likely to interrogate the owner of an Odisha-based TV channel for his alleged involvement in the  . Kundu revealed that he had paid lakhs in cheques to the news channel's owner as the former was planning to purchase his media setup in Bhubaneswar. 
 
 "We are examining the channel owner's possible conspiracy and criminal culpability in the scam," another EOW officer said. 
 
 The EOW, meanwhile, said they are undecided whether or not to question the two Trinamool MPs - Tapas Pal and Sudip Bandyopadhyay - who were arrested by the   in the Rose Valley scam. The EOW has been investigating at least 23 police cases registered against Rose Valley in different districts of Odisha since 2013-14. "Direct complicity of the two TMC MPs in connection with the scam in Odisha has not been found. Unlike West Bengal, the MPs didn't promote Rose Valley activities," another EOW officer said.
 
 
