 was leading a simple life and her life’s goals reflected that — complete education, secure a good job, get married and lead a happy life. But it was only after a series of accidents that led her to becoming the lead actress of   that she realized what true happiness was, for she now knows that films are her true calling.

 So, how did a girl from Davanagere end up being an actress? “After completing engineering and MBA from Davanagere, I came to Bengaluru for an internship, having secured a job with a good company. One day, somewhat by accident, I auditioned for a TV serial —   — which I was selected for. I am from a conservative family and never dreamt of becoming an actress. So, I think that this was my destiny,” says Aditi.
 
 And how did Aditi’s conservative parents react to the news of their daughter becoming an actress? “That’s the shocking bit. I was apprehensive about acting, but my parents told me to go for it as I would get good exposure. Till I was in college, I listened to everything my parents said; in fact, I even wore the clothes they picked for me. When I got the acting offer, they told me that I could lead my life the way I wanted. That is how supportive they are,” she says.
 
 Aditi, who worked her way through college and never asked her father for pocket money, takes everything in her stride. Her energy and attitude, perhaps, played a role in her bagging a film like Dhairyam, which, she says, was also by accident. “Gundyan Hendti was about to wind up when a friend told me that director   was enquiring about me. There were three rounds of auditions, after which I was finalized as the lead. The director, producer and Ajai sir ( ) are all pucca Kannadigas and wanted to introduce a Kannada-speaking girl in their movie. I am from a pure Kannadiga household, so I think that worked in my favour,” says Aditi.
 Speaking about her character, Parimala, in Dhairyam, Aditi says, “She is from a middle-class family and is a happy soul. When the hero proposes to her, she thinks about how it will affect her family; she has very set ideas about how her husband should be. I have good acting and dancing scope in this film. What’s more, being friends in real life, mine and Ajai sir’s chemistry is very good onscreen. He made me feel comfortable throughout the shoot, so much so that I used to act silly and childish in front of him and the director. They used to call me putta (child) on the set, and I guess I became that to them.”
 
 She has had no formal training in acting, and being from outside the industry, Aditi has a very practical view of it. “An actress’ career lasts around 6-7 years, so I don’t want to waste any time and want to give my all to films, so that people remember me even after my best years have passed. Thank god I have a degree; I can always pursue something else (laughs). On a serious note, I feel that the industry is like a mirror — however I am, that’s how it will be to me. Every day of shoot for Dhairyam was beautiful. Just imagine, a girl from a conservative family, who has no idea about the film world, and gets an opportunity to star with Ajai Rao! Dhairyam is a complete package of happiness for me,” Aditi sings off. 
 
 
