Gurgaon: “It’s not me who’s the champion – you are the champions.” Thus was badminton star Saina Nehwal inspired by the community-minded endeavours of a group of student volunteers.

 The young volunteers had gathered on Saturday evening for the 7th   Spirit of   Awards ceremony, in which a Gurgaon student,   — of Amity International School, Sector 46 — emerged one of two national winners in the individual category. Mihir Menda, from Mallya Aditi International School, Bangalore, was the other.
 
 In the group category, top honours went to five class-VII girls from Panchayat Union Middle School, in Kalachery West, Thiruvarur (Tamil Nadu), who have been dedicatedly conducting an awareness campaign to help minimise the chances of accidents at the four railway crossings in their village. All winners were awarded by Nehwal, the programme’s ambassador.
 
 The   recognised 28 schoolchildren from across India for their exceptional service to community. They were chosen from more than 3,500 submissions from 200-plus schools. Gursimran and Mihir were presented with gold medallions, certificates of excellence, a cash reward of Rs. 50,000 each, and a return trip to Washington D.C. in May (where both will represent India at the global Prudential Spirit of Community Awards).
 
 Growing up, Gursimran spent time with a visually impaired relative, his grandfather’s brother, an experience that made him empathetic towards the special needs of the  . But it was a prosaic everyday encounter that gave birth to ‘EyeScribe’, a technology that opens up a whole new world for the blind.
 
 “I was travelling in the Metro and saw a blind person asking someone for the route, but the other person wasn’t interested in helping him out, and just giggled. This made me realise that these people need to be independent,” Gursimran told TOI.
 
 EyeScribe helps a blind person understand his or her aural environment. “It records the sounds you are surrounded by, and these sounds are of different frequencies. So it converts those frequencies into a single frequency. Then the binaural beats take over, fooling your brain into creating a 3D mental picture of your surroundings.” Remarkably, EyeScribe can also verbalise text, so that those without sight can enter the world of books.
 
 Ananya Saluja, a student of The Shri Ram School (Moulsari), was one of the 28 finalists. She started volunteering with the ‘17000 ft’ Foundation – an education NGO based in Ladakh’s Leh district – during summer break in 2015. She wishes to make education a fun experience for kids in these remote areas.
 
 “Getting across to them is difficult, because there’s a huge culture and language barrier. To be able to get through to them involves really getting down on your hands and knees,” shared Ananya.
 
 “So I devised my own teaching modules, one for the solar system and one for the human body. I used teaching aids like videos, and then we had fun activities like making a human-body chart, which was life size, or making a jigsaw puzzle out of the solar system. 
 
 “If you employ methods like these, you can actually get across to the children so much better.” As Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.’
 
