NAGPUR: Glaucoma is an   which causes  . About 1.2 crore people in India are affected by it, accounting for about 12.8% of the country’s blindness, making it the third leading cause of blindness in India. Yet, surprisingly 90% of people suffering from the disease are not aware of the disease, as it has almost negligible symptoms and by the time symptoms present themselves, it is too late for treatment.

 The disease is treatable medically or through surgery only if detected at a very early stage. In recent years, glaucoma drainage devices or GDD, like shunt or valves, have emerged as good devices to treat refractory glaucoma. These are useful where conventional medical treatment or surgical procedures have failed or the disease is occurring in very complex form. Though these devices are used in only about 5% of the cases, shunt or valve surgery has revolutionized glaucoma treatment.
 
 In Nagpur, only a few glaucoma surgeons use valve or shunts, including Dr  , Dr Amar Bhaskare, Dr Ashok Thool, and Dr Rekha Khandelwal, professor and head of ophthalmology department of NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences (NKPSIMS).
 
 “I could save the vision of only one eye in the case of a young patient from Katol six months back.  , 32, approached me only when vision in both eyes had deteriorated badly. I first treated him medically, which didn’t work. Then I did the conventional surgery called ‘trabeculectomy’ to reduce high eye pressure, but that too failed. He lost vision in one eye completely. Luckily, use of shunt surgery saved vision in the other eye, and he is back at work now, which he had left about a year back. The patient also had cataract in both eyes,” said Dr Khandelwal.
 
 Ramchandra was also lucky that NKPSIMS management, Dr Amol Deshmukh and dean Dr Kajal Mitra waived all expenses of the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve (the most expensive valve costing Rs35 to 40,000), the surgery and all other hospital expenses. “I have no words to thank Dr Khandelwal. She not just saved my vision but my life as I had become jobless without my eyes,” said Ram Chandra.
 
 Dr Nangia said glaucoma could be present right from birth (congenital) in some patients, it could be paediatric or in children, or could occur in people from 40-60 years or beyond too. About 3.5 to 4% prevalence is found in people above 40 years of age and about 7-7.5% in people above 60 years of age. “There are a few signs of glaucoma but no symptoms. Hence, only regular check up with ophthalmologists can lead to early diagnosis,” said Dr Nangia.
 
 Dr Bhaskare said he used the AADI (Indian version) of the shunts as it costs about one-third of imported implants. “Since it’s a progressive disease, one has to try all the available forms of treatment in sequence and implants (shunts or valves) are the last solution. People with high blood pressure, diabetes and any vascular eye problem are prone to glaucoma,” he said.
 
 Dr Thool said GDD implant surgeries require a lot of post-operative care, extending to 2-8 weeks or even more. “Not all glaucoma patients require these implants. But where nothing else works, shunts and valves hold a lot of promise,” he said.
 
