Puducherry: The legislative assembly secretariat of the Union territory of   on Thursday declined to extend any facilities to the three BJP loyalists nominated as members of the legislative assembly by the Union government on the grounds that they were not recognized as members of the assembly by the secretariat.

 “I am directed to inform that the demand in your letters cannot be accepted for the reason that as on date you are not recognized as members of the assembly as per records,” secretary of the legislative assembly A Vincent Rayar said in letters dated July 27 and addressed to them. “We have not received any letter from the assembly secretary,” said one of the nominated MLAs K G Shankar.
 
 The secretariat on July 10 declined to accept their nominations saying it ‘has not received any communication from competent authority’. It returned all files to lt governor   stating that ‘the secretariat is not bound by her communication in this regard’.
 
 “I am directed to inform that the Puducherry legislative assembly secretariat has not received any communication from competent authority about the nomination of three members. Hence assembly secretariat is not bound by your letter of communication and therefore the documents enclosed in that letter are returned herewith,” Rayar said in a letter dated July 10 addressed to Bedi's secretary G Theva Neethi Dhas
 
 The Union government nominated Puducherry BJP unit president A Saminathan, treasurer Shankar and a BJP loyalist S Selvaganapathy as members of the legislative assembly on July 4. The three newly-nominated MLAs called on Bedi, chief secretary Manoj Parida and Speaker of the legislative assembly V Vaithilingam the same day. They requested the Speaker to hold the swearing-in ceremony immediately.
 
 Later in the evening the three gave representations to Bedi charging that the Congress government was not keen on holding the swearing-in ceremony. Bedi administered the oath of office and secrecy at Raj Nivas without informing the elected government nor inviting chief minister V Narayanasamy, his cabinet colleagues and elected members of the ruling Congress party, its allies and opposition parties and also the media leading to widespread criticism from all quarters.
 
 Bedi later sent a communication to the assembly secretary asking him to extend necessary facilities and privileges to the nominated MLAs as extended to other MLAs so as to enable them to discharge their duties. The three nominated MLAs too called on the speaker twice and submitted letters seeking a room for them on the assembly premises and other facilities.
 
 Meanwhile Narayanasamy’s parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan moved the Madras high court pleading to quash the recommendations sent by Bedi to the Union government proposing to nominate BJP loyalists to the legislative assembly. The court did not grant a stay but issued notice to the Union government.
 
 
