NEW DELHI: Police have   showing the 26-year-old   walking distraught and begging for help after the crime. 

 The 17-second clip shows two men outside a   and looking upwards. They are seen gesturing to someone upstairs, perhaps asking her not to  . The   is then seen falling from the building and landing on a staircase below. She is helped to her feet by one of the men. Naked, she walks and cries for help. Two cars halt for a few seconds but move on without helping her. 
 
 Then an autorickshaw stops near her and offers to help her. In the meantime, a woman (later identified as Munni Devi) throws a shirt and pyjamas from the balcony of her house. The driver picks those up and gives them to the survivor. 
 
 The driver also gave her his phone to call up the police. One of the two men who had gestured her not to jump also called up the police.
 
  A police team arrived and took the woman to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital as she had hurt her legs in the fall. Her statement was also recorded and she accused five BPO employees of thrashing her, confining her in their flat, forcing her to drink alcohol, and taking turns to   her. 
 
 All the men she named were later arrested from the same flat. 
 
 They were identified as Lakshay Bhalla, Vikar Kumar, Naveen, Prateek and Swarit.
 
  While Swarit is an engineer with Tech Mahindra, the others worked in call centres in Noida. A sixth person, Kundan, is absconding. It was Kundan who had taken the survivor to that flat. 
 
 “They were booked under sections 376D (gang rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 377 (unnatural sex), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. The FIR was registered at Pandav Nagar police station,” said DCP (east) Omvir Singh. He added that two of the accused had known the woman for a few weeks.
 
 The woman's statement was later recorded again before a local magistrate. 
 
 The arrested men were produced in court and remanded in custody. 
 
 
