NEW DELHI: Of the five men who were affected by toxic gases while   in   on Saturday, three were members of the same family. For two of them, the descent proved fatal, and the third only just escaped a similar fate.

 Jaspal Singh, the sole   among the five who descended into the tank, a rain-harvesting reservoir that had filled up with  , told TOI that he would forever regret being unable to do something to save his father and the others stuck inside the tank. 
 
 “The last thing I remember before I fell unconscious was the sight of my father hanging mid-air with a rope tied around his waist,” Jaspal said dolefully.
 
 Jaspal too had followed his father, Swarn Singh, into the   using a pipe to slide down, but when he felt dizzy on inhaling the fetid air, he hurriedly stepped out. Fortunately for him, he was able to climb out before losing consciousness. “I started to feel dizzy and thought that coming out was the best option,” he said.
 
 The three Singhs — Swarn, Balwinder and Jaspal — had left home at 9am and caught up with Deepu Dubey, Lokesh and Anil Kumar near the site of the tank. Police said that the Singhs had actually decided to skip work on Saturday. “I wish we had stuck to our plan to work only from Monday,” agonised Jaspal. “And even though we finally did go there, I wish we had first removed the lid of the tank and waited for some time before entering it.” Swarn Singh had been contacted by a man who offered every worker he could rope in a tidy sum for cleaning the rainwater harvesting tank. 
 
 Jaspal claimed that the person who awarded the work did not mention that the tank held sewage. “Though my father did not ask me to accompany him, I went because I wanted to learn how to clean such tanks,” said Jaspal. “I had only carried out such a cleaning once.”
 
 Like the youngster, Deepu too have never ever ventured out for a task of this nature. “Deepu had been working for two and half years now with tent houses, assisting the caterers and had never handled sewage tanks,” said Bam Bhola Dubey, his elder brother. He said that on Wednesday he had tried to dissuade Deepu from going for the job, but the youth insisted, saying it would bring an additional earning of Rs 100.
 
 “Deepu was the sole bread winner of our family and we both lived at the night shelter,” said the unemployed Bam Bhola. “Our parents had died when Deepu was in Class X.” With no money, the elder brother fretted about how to arrange the funeral of his brother. “I have not even informed my relatives back in Bihar about the incident because I might have to bear the expenses of their coming to Delhi,” the wretched man said.
 
 
