BENGALURU: Reviving   seems to be a distant dream with many problems dogging the process to clean up the 931-acre   

  Various government agencies involved in the process say they are facing a fund crunch and sprucing up the lake can never progress at the expected pace. "As per a rough estimate, we need at least Rs 750 crore to revitalise Bellandur Lake. But, no one knows where the money will come from. This project will never progress without mobilising the required funds," said a senior official of the  . He added that the state government had not made any special provision to allocate funds for it. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had given one month's time from April 18 to clean up the lake. The government pleaded that it needs more time. The tribunal has posted the next hearing to July 13.
 
 Many agencies, including BDA, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bangalore Water Supply and Sewage Board (BWSSB), Karna taka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and Lake Development Authority (LDA) have specific roles to play in the clean-up exercise.
 
 The agencies have to conduct joint inspection of all industries and apartment complexes. They have to collect samples from existing sewage treatment plants (STPs) and effluent treatment plants (ETPs) and get them checked by the Indian Institute of Science. They have to submit exact dimensions of drains and quantum of sewage flowing into the lake through all 17 inlets.
 
 More importantly , the government has to set up new STPs and common ETPs through the agencies. The KSPCB has to see the pollution inflow to the lake is stopped, while BDA has to desilt the lake. All works have to be carried out under the supervision of the LDA. “Both time and resources are constraints. It's no mean task to clean up such a huge water body ,“ said G Vidyasagar, chief executive, LDA.
 
 While existing STPs can take care of 250 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage flowing into the lake, new STPs are to be set up to treat another 250 MLD. According to the Supreme Court order, the common ETPs are to be set up to treat 150 MLD effluents being released by various industries.
 
 As per a rough estimate, Rs 3 crore is needed to treat 1MLD of sewage, which amounts to Rs. 750 crore for sewage treatment alone. Resources have to be mobilised for industrial effluent treatment, cleaning up the water in the lake, and drawing sewerage lines in the catchment area.
 
 Removal of silt is another herculean task. An KSPCB official said sludge removal could take at least three years provided funds are available. “We are trying all possible means and ways. The plan needs to be comprehensive and strong,“ said Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary , department of urban development.
 
 Sources said the LDA has asked BDA to prepare a detailed project report, while the latter is dithering as there is no clarity over funding.“Since BDA is the custodian of the lakey , it has take the initiative. The LDA will approve the proposal if it is practical,“ said a senior LDA official.
 
 But a senior BDA official said: “How can we take responsibility? Our coffers are empty .“
 
 
 
 
 Getting rid of the sludge has become a big challenge. The sludge is estimated to be 3 metres thick. The conventional approach is to dump it in a landfill or give it to farmers who use it as compost. Scientists are sceptical about the second option as they want to test the chemical composition as it could be hazardous.Another option is to dissolve the sludge through a chemical process, but experts said it would not be eco-friendly. Yet another option is to build mounds over islands within the lake using the sludge. It has been done at Ulsoor Lake. It could be a mammoth task given the quantity of sludge and the large area of the lake bed.
 
 
 
 
 The   (KSPCB) on Wednesday issued closure order to 114 industries allegedly polluting Bellandur Lake. The board's officials said the order was issued following the directive issued by the National Green Tribunal which set July 13 as the deadline to clean up the water body. The NGT on May 19 asked the state government to seal industries releasing effluents into the lake.KSPCB chairman Lakshman said the industries which got closure orders were from the catchment area of Bellandur Lake and the electricity connection has already been disconnected. It warned these industries against continuing operations using DG sets or any other mode.
 
 
 
 
