An award-winning author, a poet and an activist, Chitra Banerjee   also teaches creative writing at the University of Houston. Two of her books, The Mistress of Spices and Sister of My Heart have been made into movies. Devakaruni has the most loveable muse and her name is Juno. She met Juno, a dog, at the Houston SPCA animal shelter and admits that rubbing Juno’s belly helped her in dealing with writer’s block. As she starts her tour for her latest book Before We Visit the Goddess, we caught up with the author to know more about the book and her writings.
 
  
 
  I like and use all these mediums, but for me the novel is the most powerful because it can cover many years, generations, and lives. It can show growth and change more than the other forms. However, I am delighted to combine the novel and the short story forms in my latest book, Before We Visit the Goddess, which is a novel-in-stories.
  
  
 
  No, all of these characters are fictional. They do reflect my concerns and interests and often come geographically from the parts of the world I know best about like Bengal, California and now Texas. But they all have their own personalities and they often surprise me as I write them.
  
  
 
  This is a novel in stories about three generations of women - a grandmother, a mother, and a daughter. The book moves from Bengal where the grandmother Sabitri lives to the   when the daughter Bela immigrates there. She brings up her daughter Tara in the United States. Although Tara never comes to India and never meets her grandmother, she has an interesting connection with her grandmother in the novel.
  
  The book addresses questions of heritage, immigration, inter-generational communication and conflict, and the price women have to sometimes pay for their success. The book is built around proverbs and sayings that each woman learned as she was growing up, and that affect her understanding of her place in the world.
  
  
 
  There are female authors who have written strong men characters too, but I think women are often interested in giving centerstage to women protagonists because for many centuries women characters were relegated to the edges of the canvas.
  
  
 
 
 
  I have a deep interest in psychology. I’m interested in changes in the possibility of change – I think that is one of the basic things that makes us human. It is a great potential, but it can also be a terrible downfall. It is exciting for me to see how plot and character intertwine. An event changes a person. As a result, the person does something that affects the lives of people around him or her. More events occur. As a result, more changes occur. I find it all quite fascinating.
  
  
 
 
 
  I think my favourite novel is the current one Before We Visit the Goddess because it deals with three generations of mothers and daughters. I started writing this book soon after my mother passed away. This book for me is an exploration of motherhood, the challenges and the joys it involves.
  
  My most challenging novel was The Palace of Illusions. I had to do a lot of research on the Mahabharata in order to write this novel, which retold the original story from the point of view of Draupadi. The biggest challenge was creating Draupadi’s character that had to be authentic yet timeless and surprising and very human too. I am very thankful to the readers who liked this book.
  
  
 
  I co-founded Maitri about 25 years ago. It is an organisation that helps Indian and South Asian women who are in situations of abuse and domestic violence. There were women in our community who faced such issues but had no one to turn to. We started the service after a woman tried to commit suicide. In 25 years, it has grown into a great organisation and has helped hundreds of women. I am now involved with a similar organisation in Houston called Daya.
  
  
  
