Panaji: Goa was caught in the whirlpool of an offshore trough stretching from Gujarat to the Kerala coast and the effect of depression on the Odisha coast, as heavy to very heavy rainfall lashed the state on Tuesday, taking the seasonal total past 50 inches. 

 As of Tuesday morning, 1917.7mm (51.9 inches) of rainfall was recorded. 
 
 Though meteorologists at Altinho, Panaji, declined to comment about Tuesday’s spell being one of the wettest of the season thus far, the quantum of rainfall in some parts of the state suggested torrential rains were witnessed across Goa.
 
 The offshore trough at mean sea level from the south Gujarat coast to the north Kerala coast triggered heavy rainfall activity since Tuesday morning. “But ultimately, it is the combined effect of the depression over the north-west and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and coastal areas of Odisha,” explained M L Sahu, director of the meteorological centre at Altinho, Panaji. 
 
 The atmospheric depression is very likely to move west-northwestward and cross the Odisha coast between Gopalpur and Puri on Tuesday night.
 
 The meteorological centre has forecast   at a few places and very heavy rain at isolated places till Thursday morning. “After that, rainfall may show some decrease in activity,” Sahu said.
 
 Windy conditions will continue, with the met centre stating that winds will be westerly to south-westerly with speeds of 25-50km per hour, temporarily reaching 60km per hour in gusts or squalls.
 
 Fishermen have been advised not to venture out to sea.
 
 Following the July 14 wet spell, the monsoon had again weakened considerably, and the deficit had mounted to 14% on Tuesday morning, though it is considered to be in the normal range. 
 
 The season’s wettest spell of 102.3mm was recorded during the 24 hours till July 14, even as the deficit had mounted to 19% due to weak monsoon activity for most part of June and July.
 
 In the 24 hours till Tuesday morning, rainfall had been moderate in all 13 centres across Goa, with Valpoi recording the highest at 62.1mm, and Dabolim the lowest at just 11.2mm.
 
 
