AYODHYA: The clamour for Ram temple is likely to get a momentum when chief minister   makes his maiden visit to   on May 31 to celebrate the 79th birthday of Nritya Gopal Das, the president of Ramjnamabhomi Trust. The CM is also likely to visit Ramjanmabhoomi, Hanuman Garhi and other prominent temples of the town and hold a meeting with the seers. The local saint community confirmed that that they would hold closed-door meeting the and Ram temple is bound to dominate the agenda of their discussion. 

 “Even after BJP coming to power both in the state and the Centre, the leaders have still not taken any action on this issue. We felt that the desire to build temple was getting buried under other political issues. Therefore, we requested the CM to meet us and take the movement ahead. He will be meeting all of us in Digambar Akhara on May 31 to discuss the plan forward,” Digambar Akhara’s head priest Mahant Suresh Das told TOI.
 
 Mahant Narayana Chari of Achari Mandir said that Yogi always had the drive to build temple here. “If the initiative is not taken before 2019, the temple will never be built. We know this and therefore we have urged the CM to take action now. Why should we give our land to Muslims when facts also prove that it had a temple in ancient times? We don’t want any negotiation but action.” 
 
  “The penchant to build a temple here was gradually dying among our Hindu leaders. We will rekindle it soon. The movement dates long back than 1992 when all Hindu associations had united to support the cause. Now is the right time to see the action, ” Nritya Gopal Das told TOI. 
 
 The Ayodhya title suit is pending before the Supreme Court, which recently observed that two contesting parties should explore avenues for an out-of-court settlement of the dispute.
 
 Among the invitees for the birthday celebration are   movement stalwarts like VHP president Praveen Togadia and BJP MP  .
 
 While the saint community is enthusiastic about Yogi’s visit, the common people hardly exude the same sentiments. “Narendra Modi has so far avoided discussion on Ram Mandir after becoming the PM and the same stance is expected from Yogi as well,”says Dr Anil Singh , professor at Saket degree college.
 
 “As the dispute is in the Supreme Court, it will not be prudent for Yogi to speak on this issue as he represents the state,” said Mahant Raghuvar Sharan of Radio Niwas Mandir of Ayodhya.
 
 
