MUMBAI: Rarely do you find athletes who are frank about the dangers involved in their sport.But  , who had punched his way through to the quarterfinals of the 75kg boxing competition at the Rio Olympics last year, before losing to Uzbekistan's  , is chillingly aware about the perils of his job.

 “Boxing is a very dangerous sport. It's a sport where you hit and get hit. Boxers face a lot of problems at later stages in life.That's because for years together, we get punched and punch on a daily basis. The punches we receive have a direct impact on the brain. This is why boxers have a problem with their memory at later stages in life,“ Krishan told TOI, in an interview on Monday , on the sidelines of the TOISA Awards, where he won the Best Boxer of the Year award.
 
 Why did he pursue boxing, then? “I didn't know about this fact, otherwise, I wouldn't have taken up boxing. I was only 10 when I began boxing in Bhiwani. By the time I was old enough to understand this, I had made it my career,“ he said. Did he think about quitting it, since it involves serious health issues? “There will be health issues, but what to do ? For the past 15-16 years, my daily routine, starting 6 am, has been about hitting someone or getting hit. It won't be easy to quit. I tried to stay away from it for one or two years, but boxing called me back!“ he explained.
 
 Krishan feels that the International Boxing Federation's decision to remove headgear, which was implemented at the Rio Olympics last year, has made the sport even more dangerous. “The risk factor has increased tremendously because of this. The head gear, which has been removed to make boxing more entertaining used to protect us. Now those punches come at us directly ,“ he said.
 
 Risk factor apart, Krishnan admitted that the performance of India boxers at Rio wasn't satisfactory . “Our performance was bad. The reason was that we didn't have a federation, and we had limited exposure. Maybe, there were nutrition issues too. We couldn't manage our weight properly. I didn't increase my weight at the right time, since I had fever when I left for Rio. I box in the 75kg category . If my weight is 71kg, and my opponent's weight is 74kg, he'll have an advantage over me. If I was fitter, I could've beaten my Uzbek opponent,“ he analyzed.
 
 The 25-year-old promised that he will come back as a better boxer in the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.“I'll not perform as badly in the Olympics ever again. I've removed all the negative feelings inside me,“ he assured.
 
 The Bhiwani man wants to first win a medal for India before going the   way and become a professional boxer. “Vijender Singh is an inspiration for the whole country . Boxers in Bhiwani still follow him. When he wished me all the best for Rio, it was very motivating. I too want to be a pro-boxer, but more than that, I want to represent my country , which I can only do in amateur boxing. In pro-boxing, your name comes before the country . I still want to win a gold medal for India,“ Krishan said.
 
 He's hopeful that boxing, like kabaddi, will gain more following in India once there's a league.“Boxing's popularity has decreased because of proliferation of leagues in other sports like kabaddi. Boxing Federation president Ajay Singh (owner of Spice jet) told me that we'll start a league soon in India,“ Krishan informed.
 
 Money , according to him, isn't aproblem in boxing. “The government and our sponsors I am sponsored by JSW are fully supporting us. The only concern is health issues, since it's a dangerous sport. Boxing is not as expensive as tennis or golf. We only need gloves, which the government can provide us with,“ he said.
 
 
