HYDERABAD: Hyderabad may soon become the first city in the country to have unique house ad dresses based on the geo-spatial location of each home. The Greater Hyderabad   (GHMC) has begun the process of allotting digital house numbers for all dwelling units in the city. The agency for executing the project is expected to be identified and finalised soon.

 Once the project is over, anyone can locate a house by keying in the unique house number of a particular dwelling unit in a cellphone app, which will then provide directions to that house. Since the project is based on a geo-spatial solution, the app will provide navigation details and address loca tion services within the GHMC's jurisdiction, officials said.
 
 As of now, the city has a 14 digit house numbering system which is not uniform. House numbers were allotted by the civic body on a first-comefirst-serve basis and not based on location, which resulted in irregular numbering. To find a solution, the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH), on the lines of Bangalore, initiated a new house numbering system in 1998. While new house numbers were allotted in some city circles, such as Abids, on a pilot basis, the project was abandoned for various reasons, including budgetary constraints.
 
 “The GHMC has called for a request for proposal for the project `Unique Smart Addressing Solution for Urban Dwellings' (USASUD) in Greater Hyderabad on a design, build, o p e r at e, m a i n t a i n & t r a n s f e r (DBOMT) basis. The tenders will be finalized in February ,“ mayor   told TOI.
 
 Officials said that since the project is being taken up on public private partnership (PPP) basis, and the developer has to maintain the system for at least the next 15 years, the prospective developers have been asked to conduct a pilot survey of about 300 households before coming up with proposals. The bidders will conduct a door-to-door survey using a technology platform to generate digital house numbers for all dwellings within the civic jurisdiction, which should be available through a cellphone app.
 
 GHMC authorities said the developer will have to de sign, customize and im plement a platform to auto-generate a smart and unique house number that is contigu o u s w i t h p a t tern-based road-net work encoding logic. It should be accessible on web and mobile chan nels. The prospective developer has to set up cloud-based infrastructure for access to the information generated and collected during the survey for the authority and to act as a navigational tool for various uses. The developer is expected to use satellite imagery not older than three months and data provided by the GHMC.
 
 “Digital house numbers will be integrated with emergency service providers to immediately identify the location of any citizen in distress. A digital door number can be used for navigation by the police, fire services and ambulance services. This can be augmented with the integration of several other services with the private sector for citizens' convenience and commercial use,“ GHMC city planner (house numbering cell) Narsamma said.
 
