CHANDIGARH: With a view to protecting the interests of the allottees, the   has decided that any coloniser wanting to transfer his licence in the state will now have to inform all allottees about the proposed transfer by getting published advertisements in leading newspapers (two English and one Hindi), and also post the move on his website.

 This was the most awaited deterrent to be imposed by Haryana, especially in the wake of management of companies quietly changing hands without taking applicants or occupant into the consideration.This will largely help the consumers who have subscribed to the housing schemes in NCR cities of Gurugram, Faridabad and Palwal. 
 
  Department official said on Sunday the coloniser shall give time to the allottees to raise objections to the proposed transfer of licence limited to adverse effect on their rights, if any, in the office of Senior Town Planner concerned within 30 days.
  
 Besides, the coloniser will also inform all allottees on their   about the proposed transfer of licence. The proposal will also be posted on the website of the department.
 
 After the expiry of 30 days, the senior town planner of the circle concerned will submit his report on the objections received from the third party right holders, if any on the proposed transfer of licence along with his comments. The decision to transfer the licence will be taken after examining and deciding the objections.
 
 The spokesnman said that the coloniser, seeking transfer of licence, shall submit self-certification along with certificate of the chartered accountant that 15% profit margin does not exceed the project cost at the time of submission of the application for transfer of licence where the colonizer has not obtained completion certificate of the colony.
 
 And in case, if it is noticed that the net profit is more than 15%, the surplus profit along with interest @ 12% will be recovered from the coloniser interested in seeking transfer of licence. Fifteen per cent of the project cost includes the cost of land, cost of holding the land, other infrastructure expenditure and governmnmet fees etc. incurred up to the date of submission of application for transfer of licence, the spokesman added.
 
 Under Rule 17 of the Haryana Development and regulation of Urban Areas Rules, 1976, a colonizer may transfer the licence granted to him to any other person with the approval of the Director along with administrative charges at the rate of ten per cent of the fee prescribed. After receipt of the request for transfer of licence, the director would examine the matter, and may grant in-principle approval for transfer of licence or reject the application.
 
