BENGALURU: As a fighter pilot,   Prashant Nair flew IAF's meanest  , the Su-30. Now, he flies a yellow plane -it's small, pretty and it's vintage.

 “The challenges are different, and so are the satisfaction levels. I enjoy flying this plane,“ Nair, 40, told TOI as he stood beside the Tiger Moth, a World War II-era plane, at Aero Show 2017. He flies at a humble cruising speed of 130-139 kmph, which cars today can do.
 
 And that's what happened when he was flying the Moth to Yelahanka Air Force Station from Ghaziabad's Hindon Air Base. “Cars and other vehicles overtook me on the expressway .I'm not used to this. The Su-30s flew at speeds of Mach 2. But I overtook them as they stopped at toll booths,“ he quipped. The Centre is now officially pushing defence firms to increasingly look outside.And, Karnataka, much like it leads the   (IT) revolution, will lead the outsourcing wave in the defence and aerospace sectors.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the sidelines, defence minister   said, “We will have the PSUs and ordnance factories to have a fixed percentage of their business or projects outsourced.“ Stating that move will only help defence PSUs and ordnance factories become more efficient, Parrikar said, “There will be strict targets given. When they can involve the domestic industry, it is only going to benefit everybody, it will also reduce project timelines,“ he said. Indian manufacturers, unlike a decade-or-so ago aren't struggling to meet quality standards, with several of them having already bagged big deals from international firms, and several others in the pipeline.
 
 The number of defence manufacturing licences granted is another major indication of the trust in the domestic industry, which was seen lacking in the past. From military-qualified rifle sights to cockpit upgradations, from simulators to electronic warfare systems, domestic firms are now eyeing several projects.
 
 There are a total of 342 such licences that are in operation in India at present, and experts say Karnataka with 21% (72) of these licences will lead the outsourcing trend in the defence sector, much like it did in the IT sector. Bengaluru-based Alpha Design Technologies, Dynamatic Technologies, Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL), Maini are some of the firms that have benefitted out of such outsourcing already . But several of these deals are from big private firms. Alpha Design chairman and MD Col HS Shankar (retd) said, “The move is positive and will go a long way in creating a more vibrant ecosystem in the country, in line with the Make in India programme.“ Among the strategic programmes, Alpha has done the upgrading of IAF's fighter jet Su-30, about 1,000 numbers of the T-72 tank upgradation, and the cockpit upgradation for 90 Mi-17 choppers.
 
 “Besides we've bagged a deal through HAL for making 110 door structures for the A320 aircraft,“ Shankar said. TASL will be making components for military helicopters that India is looking to buy . And several other firms are waiting for orders in the pipeline through the offset route from  's Rafale.
 
 Anurag Garg, director and aerospace & defence lead with PricewaterhouseCoopers told TOI that this year the industry is hoping for some big announcements like the FICV (futuristic infantry combat vehicle) show meaningful progress. Speaking about the FICV, Parrikar said there were some issues between companies par ticipating in the project and he is meeting them next week.
 
