JAIPUR: At the time when a   was allegedly denied   at   late on Friday evening, one of the two   was closed and only one labour room was functional. The pregnant woman had no choice but to give birth on the road outside Jaipuria Hospital on Friday night.

 Sources said that in Jaipuria Hospital, there are two labour rooms — one has three obstetric delivery tables (ODS) while the other which was closed has five such tables.
 
 At one point of time, the pregnant woman was taken inside the labour room on that night, but as all the three ODS were occupied by other women and the other room was closed, the pregnant woman came out of the hospital and gave birth to the baby outside the hospital on the road.
 
 It is ironical that despite reaching the labour room, the pregnant woman failed to get medical attention which she required immediately.
 
 Now, the committee constituted by health minister Kalicharan Saraf is investigating as why the labour room with five ODS was closed that night and also if there was not any other area in the hospital where she could have given birth to the baby under institutional care.
 
 The minister has already said that those found guilty will be punished.
 
 Sources said that the committee members have also collected visuals from CCTV cameras installed inside the hospital. The videos will help the committee to find out what had actually happened that night.
 
 A five-member committee constituted by health minister Kalicharan Saraf is investigating into the matter. The committee was formed on Saturday, which has been asked to submit the report within three days.
 
 The committee comprises of health department’s joint secretary Prakash Jain, women commission’s secretary Amrita Chaudhary, director (health) Dr VK Mathur, chief medical health officer (Jaipur II) Praveen Aswal and Jaipuria Hospital superintendent Dr Rekha Singh.
 
 The committee members have already recorded statements of the staff present at the labour room including resident doctors.
 
 Besides, the members of the committee also met the patient, where she recalled the incident happened with her on Friday night in the hospital.
 
 
