KANPUR: It was after 32 hours of the derailment of   superfast express train at  , thatr the tracks could be restored for movement of trains on late Monday night. The derailment had caused much damage to the tracks, sleepers,   (OHE) and the platform no. 3 which were repaired throughout the day on Monday. 

 Several teams of gangmen worked throughout night on Sunday and during day hours on Monday to normalise the downline between Kanpur and Unnao. They repaired the 300-metre patch of the track route and also laid new sleepers.
 
 The Lokmanya Tilak superfast express train had derailed at Unnao railway station at around 1.40 pm on Sunday. A total of 11 coaches of the train had skided off the tracks. Fortunately, none of the passengers got injured nor any casualty took place in the mishap. 
 
 Satish Chandra, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow Division of Northern Railway, who was on leave and out of Lucknow, had cancelled his programme midway and reached Unnao railway station on Monday afternoon and carried out the inspection. He examined the entire length of the tracks from one end of the platform to the other. He spoke to the railway staff deployed at the Unnao station to know about cause of the derailment. He was accompanied with other senior officials who noted down the possibilities that could cause the derailment. 
 
 Talking to TOI at Unnao railway station, the DRM said,"The downline has been restored for movement of trains coming from Lucknow direction. Until the work of route restoration is completed, trains coming from Lucknow are being routed through platform no. 4.". While trains coming from Kanpur are being routed through platforms no. 1 and 2, the work of repairing and maintaining the tracks and the sleepers is going on next to platform no. 3, he informed. 
 
 In presence of the DRM, several sleepers and pendal clips were replaced with the new ones. The nuts which were missing at the joints of the rail tracks were also fixed and the tracks were fastened. After the work of repairing the tracks was completed, the railway staff repaired the over head equipment (OHE) which provides power to trains to run. 
 
 The movement of trains had remained affected due to maintenance of the tracks. A lot of inconvenience was caused to passengers due to the late running of trains. An inquiry committee to conduct probe into the derailment of Lokmanya Tilak superfast express in Unnao on Sunday is yet not formed.
 
 
