PUNE:   in eight dams of the   have reached the above-80% mark of their respective capacities following consistent spells of rain in the catchments. 

 The incessant rainfall has also led to the inflow of water into Ujani, the largest dam in the basin. The dam’s water storage, which had depleted below the 0% mark during summer, recorded a live storage of 6 TMC on Sunday.
 
 The Bhima basin has 25 major dams, most of which are located in Pune district. The irrigation department said water was discharged from the eight dams into various rivers after storages went up above 85%. The water was released to make space for rainwater flowing into the reservoirs. Among the major dams that released water on Sunday were Mulshi, Vadaj, Chaskaman, Yedgaon, Andra, Kalmodi, Gunjawani and Kasarsai.
 
 Three dams in Pune district have reached to their maximum capacities. Among those is Khadakwasla that   to Pune city. The collective stock of water in four dams supplying water to the city reached above 20 TMC mark on Sunday. In evening, the stock was recorded at 20.66 TMC (70.86%).
 
 The current stock in dams can easily meet the city’s annual water requirement of 15 TMC. The dams have a capacity to store 29.15 TMC water, of which about 14.5-5   is supplied to the city. The rest of the water flows for agriculture.
 
 Irrigation department officials said water released from various dams was flowing into Ujani, triggering an increase in the dam’s stock. Water was being released from the dead stock in summer season. The dam has added almost 16 TMC water ever since the reservoirs in the upstream areas started releasing water, officials said.
 
 Data released by the irrigation department on Sunday revealed that the intensity of rainfall has dropped in the catchments of some dams as against what it was in two days ago. 
 
 The officials said most dams have added decent water stock in the last one week. Of 25 dams, only Nazare, located in the Purandar area, has so far not recorded live storage. Barring this, all the dams have live water stock, they said.
 
 
