Thanjavur: Farmers in the region are alleging that the recent notification by the state government allowing farmers to remove silt, savudu and gravel from the bed of tanks is being misused for non-agricultural purposes.

 The norms laid down by the government for removing silt from the water bodies have been flouted as none of the monitoring authorities are properly executing their powers to streamline the process. The silt removed from the tanks are largely utilized in brick kilns and levelling housing plots, farmers alleged. 
 
 As per the government order, the public may be allowed to remove silt, savudu and gravel free of charge for bonafide domestic or agriculture purposes from the beds of tanks under the control of the public works department (PWD), provided that the quantity of mineral removed from the tanks shall not exceed 30 cubic meters or 5 lorry loads of 200 cft.
 
 “However, no one is following the norms laid down by the government. Many in the name of farmers are extracting minerals from the tanks without following the rules,” alleged Swamimalai R Vimalnathan, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. 
 
 “Many people who have no links to agriculture are removing silt for purposes other than agriculture. The dig the earth even 5 meters below the allowed level. This will lead to depletion of ground water table. When the crater fills with rain or flood water, it may endanger the cattle and even children when they get into it”, he alleged. 
 
 “Though the government has nominated monitoring authorities from various departments, no one was seemed to be vigilant,” he added.
 
 “Two days back Tiruvarur collector L Nirmalraj in a statement had instructed the concerned officials to have close watch in this regard and also had warned the public who violates the norms of stringent action,” he said, adding that the Thanjavur collector should also take necessary action. 
 
 Meanwhile, farmers are not showing much interest in collection the silt from the tanks to fill their lands, as they were apprehensive on whether the silt would be beneficial for enhancing normal yield. 
 
 “Since there is no water, there was no reason to worry about silt. That is why many farmers are not taking it seriously,” opined K Rajarathinam, a farmer from Papanasam, in Thanjavur district. 
 
 
