PUNE:   in the city may not get a   waiver like the citizens of Mumbai. The civic administration turned down the proposal to waive taxes for houses below 600 sqft. 

 In July, the general body of   (BMC) had approved a proposal to exempt homes in Mumbai up to 500 sqft from property tax.
 
 It had also approved a proposal to give owners of flats between 501 sqft and 700 sqft a 60% discount on the tax. Shiv Sena, the ruling party in BMC, had made a poll promise about this exemption. A proposal along the same lines was tabled before the standing committee.
 
 “The proposal is aimed at relief to the residents of small houses. If it is approved, people from the lower income section will benefit,” Balasaheb Ostwal, a Shiv Sena corporator in Pune, said. 
 
 The committee had sent a proposal to the property tax department which reviewed and rejected the proposal.
 
 “The civic administration has already been providing various benefits to small house owners. There has been exemption to the slum rehabilitation schemes. We have replied after studying all these aspects,” Suhas Mapari, head of PMC’s property tax department, said.
 
 Property tax is one of the key sources of income of the civic administration. The tax is charged on immovable properties.
 
 According to civic officials, the state government has already given relief to small house owners in another scheme. The state government issued a government resolution (GR) in which residential properties between 601 to 1,000 sqft would pay 50% more property tax. Only the properties that are more than 1,001 sqft will pay 100% more tax.
 
 As per civic officials, the city has around 8.3 lakh properties that have to pay tax. The civic body is collecting double tax from over 18,000 properties. The move may have an adverse impact on the overall tax collection for the next financial year. The revenue from the property tax may reduce.
 
 The PMC has crossed Rs 1,000 crore for the property tax income, this year. The department has collected this tax since the start of this financial year from April. It has a target of Rs 1,600 crore for this financial year, which will end on March 31, 2017.
 
