PATNA: Assam   (ABN)’s luxury cruise MV   will enter Bihar on July 28 through the riverside of Manihari town, and will spend 11 days within the state’s territory before entering Ghazipur in UP on August 7. 

 Rajmahal will reach Patna on August 3, and move towards Danapur on August 4. It will sail through Shivnagar to reach Buxar on August 6. By August 12, Rajmahal will be in UP going up to Chunar. It will leave UP for its return journey on August 13.
 
 Inland Waterways Authority deputy director A K Singh said on Saturday he was in receipt of the Rajmahal’s official itinerary. The cruise will move on the national waterway-1 (NW-1) of the Ganga-Bhagirathi-Hooghly river route.
 
 ABN, an Indo-British JV formed in 2002, was among the first firms to offer launch long-distance river cruising in India. Pioneering the launch of deluxe cruises on major rivers like the Ganga, Hooghly and Brahmaputra, ABN launched Rajmahal in February 2014.
 
 With a capacity to carry 20 guests per excursion, the fully airconditioned 50-metre-long Rajmahal’s stylish décor is an infusion of traditional Indian designs and colonial elegance. The upper deck is designed to accommodate 14 plush double cabins, while the main deck accommodates four double cabins and four single cabins. 
 
 Offering Assamese and continental cuisine on board, Rajmahal, like the ABN’s other ships, offers bar services, dining room, canopied sundeck, spa and a gift shop.
 
 With the tariff ranging from Rs 19,000 to Rs 31,000 per person/night, Rajmahal is especially preferred by tourists from Japan, Europe,   and Australia. The Union ministry of shipping, particularly the Inland Waterways Authority of India, and the ministry of tourism, are closely involved in promoting the cruise that offers insights into the ruch culture of India with visits to villages, towns, temples and monuments. 
 
 However, Rajmahal may have to shut its bar during its stay in Bihar, which has been declared a dry state since April 5 last year. 
 
 “ABN took transit licence last year after informing us about the cruise’s journey before prohibition; that is, they were allowed to operate bar on the ship. This year, however, the ABN has not applied for a licence,” deputy excise commissioner   told this reporter on Saturday, adding any such application would be rejected now that Bihar is a dry state.
 
 According to him, the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 bans sale and consumption of alcohol. “Legal action will be initiated if the prohibition law is violated on the cruise during its stay in Bihar,” he added.
 
