HYDERABAD: After winning a landmark student election at the University of Hyderabad, the   for Social Justice (ASJ) comprising groups that backed Rohith Vemula before his suicide in January 2016, has vowed to secure justice for the research scholar.
The winning Alliance consisting Students Federation of India ( ), Dalit Students'   (DSU) and Ambedkar Students' Association (ASA), among other smaller groups won the polls on Friday midnight, winning five of the six seats, dealing a huge blow to the growing might of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP).The result for the sixth seat was witheld due to technical reasons, UOH authorities said in a statement.
 
 The ASJ also led in the sixth seat, which was to the post of the vice president of the students union. Sources said the winning candidate had a low attendance record.
 
 “It's a victory against the BJP and its efforts to saffronise universities across the country. It's a message to the nation that the University of Hyderabad students will not tolerate fascism and will resist communalism, “said Kuldeep Singh Nagi, vice president, SFI (UoH) unit.
 
 Educationalists said the victory is a huge blow to the ABVP and its  , which also contested all positions. From 2009-2011, the   (ASA) and Students Federation of India (SFI) fought together as an alliance, but failed to address the issues faced by poor Dalit students on campus. This is the first time all the Dalit, Adivasi and Muslim student groups fought the elections together. The alliance is now lining several protest meets on up several protest meets on campus and will also talk to other groups in various varsities across the country to secure what they say is justice for Vemula.
 
 They are particularly angry about a probe by the Centre which not only gave a clean chit to Vice Chancellor Appa Rao   and former Union minister Bandaru Dattareya, but also said that Vemula might not be a Dalit and was an OBC. His family denies the charges. Vemula committed suicide on January 17, 2016, barely days after Podile threw him and four other research scholars out of their rooms after they got into a tussle with ABVP members. After living in the University common area for nearly two weeks, Vemula hung himself in a hostel room, triggering huge nationwide protests. Vemula soon became the face for Dalit movement in India with many politicians making a beeline for the campus, including Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, who spent time at the roiled varsity twice.
 
 “There has been grave injustice towards Rohith Vemula and his family. We will unitedly fight to get him justice. We will work together to take forward Vemula's dream, “said Munna Sanaki, convenor of ASA.
 
 After Vemula's suicide, cops came across a diary where he had pointed out how Dalit students face discrimination and some even do not get guides to complete their thesis. Not just students, many university faculty members said they are also looking forward to a change on campus.
 
 “The alliance tries to articulate various issues pertaining to Dalits and Muslims.With the ASJ's win, it will act as an agency to fight against discrimination and be a common voice for the students, “said G Vijay, professor at the School of Economics in the varsity. Many SCST professors openly supported Vemula and criticised the administration for poor handling of the case.
 
