Chennai: For those struck by nostalgia with idyllic pleasant memories of expansive green lawns, red-brick buildings and wooden desks with a whiff of chalk-and-ink — startups like Almamater, iLogo, Campus Sutra and Cultureink offer a range of back-to-college products that promise to take one down their memory lane. These startups, which primarily cater to college students, find more takers among alumnus, aged from 22 to 62. With t-shirt designs that include not just the IITs and IIMs, but also other well-known institutes like PSG Engineering, Coimbatore and Manipal University, the startups cater to over 700 colleges. “We found it very touching, when a customer ordered a t-shirt emblazoned with St Xaviers, Mumbai so that his 65-year-old dad could attend his college reunion. Some of these requests are quirky - like we had a guy weighing 115 kg, who wanted a XXXL t-shirt with his college football team logo on it. Now whether he was a football player or its just wishful thinking - it’s nice that college t-shirts bring such a strong feel good factor,” says a marketing executive at iLogo, which prices its t-shirts between Rs 350-500, depending on the design intricacies. “For bulk orders, we do give discounts. But it’s a niche market and even in the event of an alumni get-together or a college reunion its an order for 15-30 t-shirts,” said the marketing executive from iLogo. One of the prominent players Campus Sutra finds takers among the 22-26 age groups who have a greater affinity with their college. Occasionally they have received requests from older people too. “There were requests from alumni of the 1983 NMIMS batch for their meets as well,” said Aditya Agarwal, co-founder, Campus Sutra. The startup, which clocks revenue of Rs 100 crore, primarily caters to college students with stream-based designs, having 6,000 shipments a day on its own website or through e-commerce players such as Flipkart and Myntra. The companies add that they have also ship orders abroad for alumni requests, which have helped make friendships. “Two of our customers – alumnis from Bishop Cotton School – found each other wearing the college hoodies, only to renew their friendship later,” said Varun Agarwal, co-founder, Almamater. The startup initially started off as an alumni merchandise company, later branched out to cater to college students as well. Alumni orders contribute anywhere between 10-30% of the total orders. A chunk of the sale also comes in from students from Tier-2 and Tier-3 colleges where association with the college and the stream gave them a sense of pride. “They are first-time architects or engineers from their towns and the college-associated merchandise gives them a sense of pride and nostalgia,” said Agarwal from Campus Sutra. The company sees 60% of orders from these colleges.