NEW DELHI: Acting on demands of animal rights activists in the country, India has banned import of exotic skins and certain furs used for leather or fur clothing and accessories. 

 A notification to this effect was issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade of the commerce ministry on January 3. 
 
 Amending the trade policy of India, the Directorate prohibited import of the skins of reptiles and the fur of chinchillas as well as minks and foxes "whole, with or without head, tails or paws". 
 
 The animal rights activists, supported by Union women and child development minister  , had made several representations to the environment ministry seeking the ban. They highlighted instances of extreme suffering of reptiles and other animals killed for leather or fur clothing and even produced evidence for the same. 
 
 "The ban comes after Maneka Gandhi wrote a letter to Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State (IC) Commerce and Industry, pressing the need to curb cruelty towards animals by prohibiting the import of exotic skins.   and Climate Change (MoEFCC ) and Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) further supported the need to bring in the ban", said the Humane Society International/India and   in a statement. 
 
 Applauding the government's decision that is in consonance with the anti-cruelty laws of India, the trustee of People for Animals and HSI/India’s government liaison, Gauri Maulekhi, said “We commend the Directorate General of Foreign Trade and MoEFCC for its firm commitment in abolishing the import of exotic skins. The exotic fur, skin and leather industry slaughters, bludgeons and skins millions of animals every year in the name of frivolous fashion. Nations across the world are switching to cruelty-free alternatives and we are glad that India is gradually emulating similar policies to reduce and eliminate unnecessary pain and suffering to animals.”
 
 The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( ) India too had been quite actively involved with other groups and central ministries in demanding the ban on import of those exotic skins and certain furs. 
 
 "Today, with so many stylish and cruelty-free alternatives available, such as fake snake, mock croc, and faux fur, there is absolutely no need or justification for wearing animal skins or fur", said the PETA India Government Affairs Liaison Nikunj Sharma. "Animals are not fabric, and we commend the government of India for recognising that fact."
 
 
