KOLKATA: If there is one iconic image of Indian cinema that has travelled the world over, it is that of   looking outside her window with a pair of opera glasses. Charu, the bored home-maker from  , has lived on in the mind of posterity.

 
 
 
 The actor, who celebrates her 75th birthday on February 10, was the only actress from Bengal to have worked with Ray, Ritwik Ghatak (“Subarnarekha”), Mrinal Sen (“Baishey Srabon”), Tapan Sinha (“Banchharamer Bagan” , “Tonsil”, and “Andhar Periye”) and Tarum Mazumdar (“Gandevata”, apart from others). But the moment her name is mentioned, it evokes the image of a lonely Charu. Rituparno Ghosh had once told her daughter, Mimi Bhattacharya, that he wanted to make a film with the actress. “Will she die trapped in the image of Charu? I will make a film with her” – that’s what Rituparno had told Mimi. Though Rituparno had cast Madhabi in “Utsab”, that dream of making one big film with her in the lead never materialised. From theatre to cinema and now serial – Madhabi Mukherjee has come a long way. Excerpts from an interview with her daughter on the lesser-known real life of one of India’s most celebrated actresses:
 
 
 
 Maa has always been very dedicated both to her family and her work. I remember an incident when Purnendu Patri was supposed to make a film with her. It was “Streer Patro”. Shobha Sen had introduced her to Purnendu mama. When talks were on regarding the remuneration, he had said: “Either I can pay you the money or I can make the film”. Maa had told him: “Then make the film. You don’t need to pay me”. She did the film without charging anything. Maa would do her hairdo herself or spend her own money to get it done. He was a budding director then and my mother’s only concern was that she should support someone wanting to make a good film. Yet, balancing home and work was never an easy job. Those days, we never had many facilities. But what was there was a systematic approach towards work. Maa would return home by 7 pm. By that time, my sister and I would want her attention. There were so many days when Maa would actually rehearse her lines in the washroom. She ensured that we were not deprived and yet she was completely prepared when she reached the sets the next day.
 
 
 
 
 My sister would ask her to help her memorise some poems. She would want to do it but time was a constraint. Maa would record the whole poem in her voice and ask my sister to play it whenever she needed. That would help her to memorise. I had read in an interview of Purnendu mama about an incident involving me. Maa was supposed to turn up on the sets in the morning. But my attendant didn’t come that day. So, maa sent information to Purnendu mama that she would have to make some alternative arrangements for me before she could reach the sets at 11.30 am. Mama made some improvisations with the shooting so that nothing got stalled. When I see “Streer Patro”, I realise how much she strived to balance her profession and her personal life. Today as a working woman, I can understand how much it took to do that.
 
 There was a time when I had chicken pox and she had to go to a shoot. However, as a kid, I never got angry with her. That was because I was made to understand that her kind of work was such that if she missed out on a day, it would mean that the work would get stalled. That would impact many other families. Even Baba had a big contribution in explaining to us the challenges of maa’s profession. Once I remember Bishupriya Dutt (Utpal Dutt’s daughter) had come to interview maa. I was loitering around to hear their conversation. She had asked maa if she ever felt guilty for being an actress and not being able to devote that much of time to the family. Maa had said: “Yes, I have felt very guilty”. When I heard this, I felt maa shouldn’t suffer from this guilt because she has never deprived us. She did all that she could and yet became such a powerful actress.
 
 
 
 Yes, she has always been very passionate about theatre. I remember an incident when she was doing theatre with Soumitra kaku. It was either for “Phera” or “Ghatak Bidae”. On one particular day, she was very unwell and her voice had got choked completely. She couldn’t talk at all and Soumitra kaku cancelled the show. The tickets were also refunded. That evening, maa had returned home early and was completely heart-broken. I have never seen her so upset. She couldn’t bear the fact that it was only because of her that so many people had returned from the theatre and the show had to be cancelled. That’s the kind of dedication maa has always had for her work.
 
 
 
 
 She always read a lot of books. They were translations of Western classics. She had this habit of reading late into the night. I’ve got that habit from her. Music was also her passion. She sang well and could play the piano too.
 
 
 
 
 My dida (grandmother) was a renowned piano teacher. It was because of my mother that we got a piano at home. By then, she was an established actress. A teacher was also supposed to come home to give lessons to her. But my mother was so busy with her work that she could never take those lessons. Instead, my grandmother started learning. Dida was trained in Indian classical music and used to play the esraj. She was very fast at picking up the piano and even learnt the notations. She gave piano lessons to many at home. Maa picked up piano after listening to my dida play it at home.
 
 
 
 
 We never knew she was joining politics till we read about it in the papers. It all started with her passion for Star Theatre. When fire broke out there, maa was staging “Ghatak Biday” there. After the fire, this play was staged elsewhere. But there were many members of the staff who went without pay. Maa genuinely felt for them, particularly a widow who was her dresser. Soumitra kaku, maa and some others decided to approach Buddhadeb Bhattacharya to see if something could be done. There was some litigation issues. But Buddhababu never informed her that he wouldn’t be able to do much. That hurt maa a lot. Later on, when Subrata Mukherjee and Mamata Banerjee had approached maa to join politics, she had first asked if they would do anything for Star Theatre. When they had said yes, she had counted 1,2,3 under her breath and given her nod.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. For her, it was an emotional issue. She couldn’t care if she lost. She had to contest against him and was ready to face the challenges. However, what really upsets her now is that the whole trend of professional theatre having got lost. Till today, Maa believes that there is a process to learn acting and theatre is a great space to do that. She likes the idea of improvisations that theatre offers.
 
 
 
 
 There are ups and downs in life. I accept life as it comes. Maa is a very conservative person and I have never spoken to her about this. I believe every person has the right to privacy and it is for her to decide what she wants to reveal. Something may or may not have happened. If something had happened, it is for her to choose if she wants to keep it personal. One should never force anything on her. We had never discussed this issue at home. I always felt I must respect her private space. I have come to believe that one has to accept a person the way she is. I could have said she should have been very strict. But what’s the point in that? Ultimately, it is maa who will decide how to behave and I have to accept her the way she has been.
 
 
 
 
 He is deeply respected by both my parents. I grew up reading Feluda and then Professor Shanku. When I grew older, I remember he would call up over the phone to invite them for premieres. There was never any sense of unease. Once when he was not well, maa and I had gone to meet him. I have seen maa maintain a very professional relationship with him. That she did with all her co-actors. They might have been back-slapping buddies of my father. But she would always address them as ‘apni’. So, Soumitra kaku is addressed as apni. Uttam Kumar, who was the ‘borkarta’ for my parents’ marriage, was also referred to as apni. Yet, I must say that as my mother’s daughter, I also learnt to accept that her life doesn’t have to only surround her family. We are one part of her life. The other part, I understand, will be about her films and theatre where she would have male co-stars. Respecting that space is something that baba has taught us.
 
 
 
 It was during 1993 that my parents had a difference of opinion. Today, those differences are no longer there. But she has got used to staying alone.
 
 
 
 
 I was doing my Masters then. My sister was in Class VIII. It was a very trivial issue that started their difference. It was like something that happens between many couples. Maa left home with my sister while I stayed on with Baba. This affected both of us a lot. It was a difficult situation. Maa also felt a tinge of “obhimaan”. The bigger problem was that maa was a celebrity. There were many people with vested interests. They intervened in a way that complicated what was actually a simple issue. For some of them, it suited that maa went on to live separately. I guess, time is a big healer. We needed patience to tide over this situation.
 
 
 
 No, I haven’t. There is no point doing it. I know the scars will remain but I will never get back those years I have lost even if I confront them.
 
 
 
 
 I wish her films were preserved better. I haven’t been able to show her “Ramer Sumati” to my daughter. Earlier producers never took care of her films. Later on, not much attempts were made to digitise them.
 
 
 
 No. She had turned down Raj Kapoor for a role in “Mera Naam Joker”. Raj Kapoor had given had a blank cheque. Maa had still refused because she didn’t want to leave Bengal.
 
 
 
 
 I used to do theatre when I was a student of Jadavpur University. Frankly speaking, it was my parents who didn’t really want me to do movies. Maa felt that movies is an insecure place. She had faced a lot and didn’t want her daughters to go through it.
 
 
 
 Insecurity is there in every profession. But I am happy where I am now.
 
