NAGPUR: The   ( ) elections for the president’s post is likely to be an evenly contested affair. After Vidarbha Connect (VCan) president Mukesh Samarth withdrew from the race, it was expected that the much-delayed polls would be a cakewalk for Jan Manch president  .

 However, noted lawyer   has decided to jump into the fray. “I had not committed as I was seeking the opinion of all. I had been receiving tremendous response from young lawyers, who want to bring about a change,” he told TOI.
 
 He sounded confident of an overwhelming support. “My candidature and credibility has to be decided by the bar and for that I am still seeking consensus from seniors. I don’t want to impose my candidature on others,” said Bhandarkar. 
 
 TOI on Tuesday had reported that Bhandarkar would be entering the fray in the wake of his huge popularity among the fraternity. VG Bhamburkar is another contestant in the fray. However no one has filled up nomination forms till now.
 
 Hailing Bhandarkar’s announcement to contest polls, Kilor said they were good friends. “Whoever wins, would bring about development of the bar and take it to the new heights in the coming next three years,” he added.
 
 While Kilor holds sway among those practising in the high court, Bhandarkar is popular among those working in the district and sessions court.
 
 They again termed it as a fight between Vidarbha activists as both were ardent supporters of statehood movement in their own ways. It would also go ahead with Vidarbha protagonist Shreehari Aney’s stand that pro-Vidarbha activists should control all such important bodies, with a view to give push to the statehood movement. 
 
 Apart from Vidarbha movement, Kilor is known for opening the city’s first generic medicine stores and also for exposing massive irrigation scam worth over Rs 70,000 crore through Jan Manch. He had an extensive work on ever-growing farmers’ suicides in Vidarbha and had filed many PILs in this regard.
 
 Bhandarkar, on other hand, is engaged into lot of philanthropic activities for the bar and recently conducted a blood donation camp where about 300 participated in the noble cause. He also donated wheelchairs for the disabled litigants in high court and had been a big sponsor of all social activities and sporting events in the court.
 
