KOLKATA: A youth sustained a   in a brawl at a pub in  's Sector V in the early hours of Sunday. The entire brawl was captured in  , and it shows that it was sparked off at 4.29am, well past the pub's closing hours, when a bald-headed youth - later identified as Zoheb Khan of Elliot Lane - was attacked by a group of youths, which kicked him and punched him before smashing a flower pot on his head. 

 The brawl later spilled out of the pub, Shimmers. The youths left the bar and clashed again on the road near Entally about 5.30am, this time with sticks and iron rods.
 
 Zoheb's cousin lodged a complaint with the Electronic Complex Police Station at 12.45am, following which the cops started a case under multiple sections - causing grievous assault, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation. But no one was arrested in the case till late on Monday evening, even as the cops continued to scan the footage provided by the pub authorities.
 
 The cops said the violence broke out around 4.10am, following an altercation between two groups of youths who were partying at the pub. Sources said the first group comprised four men and two women, while there were eight men in the other group. "The groups got into a fight over some matter, possibly over one of the women. As all of them were drunk, the row soon became a scuffle. The larger group came down heavily on the other group, and one of the youths was cornered and attacked by several of them and suffered injuries on his head," said an officer.
 
 A senior officer of the police station said the groups left the bar in separate cars after the brawl, but while crossing Entally in central Kolkata, one group hit the others' car, and they clashed again, this time with sticks and rods. The injured youth was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore.
 
 On being questioned how the bar could stay open as late as 4.30am on Holi eve, a senior office of the commissionerate said they had sealed it and were checking the licenses and permissions. "As of now, they were unable to provide us with any permission that allowed them to operate so late into the night. We have asked the owner of the bar to keep his bar closed for the time being," said the officer.
 
  TOI contacted the bar's managing director, Gursimran Singh, on Monday afternoon and he responded, saying he would get back with more details. However, from then on, he did not respond to multiple calls made on his mobile number till late on Monday. 
 
 
