 SC will not be short on motivation as they return home for three consecutive   matches, including one against bottom-ranked   at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Sunday.
 
  It was here in the last game that Churchill Brothers created the biggest ever upset, turning the tables on defending champions   – their first loss in Goa in four years – and the arrival of new coach Derrick Pereira has provided the team with a much-needed boost.
  
  Pereira, a successful and experienced coach in the combined history of   (NFL) and I-League, conducted his first training session on Saturday but refrained from disturbing the existing set-up.
  
  “It’s too early to make any changes for the first match. I just explained a few things to them, spoke to them. From what I have seen of them, it’s a good team with some good players. Hopefully, we should be able to turn it around,” Pereira told TOI after the training session.
  
  Pereira’s experience should come in handy for Goa’s only representative in the I-League. Since that famous win over high-flying Bengaluru FC, Churchill have stuttered, drawing twice and losing the other two games in their four away matches.
  
  “It’s always good to return home and play under familiar conditions. I saw Minerva Punjab (on television) and they look a dangerous side to my eyes. They have good midfield and some young talent upfront.
  
  “I am personally pleased with the attitude of Churchill Brothers. Some players are determined and I am sure we will taste success,” said Derrick, who wasn’t sure of occupying the technical bench as his accreditation card was yet to be prepared by the AIFF.
  
  Minerva are just a point above Churchill Brothers at the bottom of the pool and will know that a setback will provide welcome relief for their rivals. The visitors are exempted from relegation but they surely will not want to finish at the bottom like other newcomers – DSK Shivajians in 2016 and Bharat FC in 2015.
  
  “We want to go up the table and that can only happen if we win the game and take three points. The boys are looking forward to taking all three points from the game. When we played against Churchill at home, it was a tough game and Churchill is a good team. We need to work hard to get the points,” said Minerva coach Surinder Singh.
  
  The match kicks off at 4.35pm
