NEW DELHI: Two new stacked parking facilities, a flower waste processing plant, beautification of space under flyovers and emphasis on decongestion — these were among a host of plans discussed for the   during the inspection of the area by lieutenant governor   on Saturday. 

 Continuing with his weekend visits of the city, Baijal visited Chandni Chowk, Hanuman Mandir, Yamuna Bazaar and Town Hall area reviewing several new and ongoing   of traffic management and Shahjahanabad redevelopment. He was accompanied by the commissioner of north corporation, principal secretary (PWD), CEO (Delhi Jal Board), secretary (transport and power), joint commissioner, traffic, CEO, DUSIB and other senior officials of various agencies.
 
 During the  , officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation proposed to create two stacked parking facilities near Jat Dharamshala, besides Hanuman Mandir and Salimgarh Fort with a combined capacity of 500 vehicles. The civic body has been instructed to vigorously act against illegal parking and encroachments and clear the access points to the historic area.
 
 In the historic Town Hall building — which was the seat of the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi from 1866 till 2009 — a presentation on re-development scheme of the historic structure was made, which the civic body plans to turn into a tourist spot (as TOI has reported earlier).
 
 A craft baazar, a dancing fountain, light and sound programmes, children activity area, a maze, a boutique hotel, food court, courtyard and sculpture garden, digital library, lecture rooms, fine dining areas, are also to be developed inside this Victorian era building. 
 
 The museum at the re-developed Town Hall, which would occupy an area of about 1574 square meter at the ground floor, is expected to be the main tourist attraction.
 
 North corporation and Traffic Police have been directed by the   to coordinate with the Public Works Department (PWD) for preparation of the complete traffic circulation plan of Chandni Chowk.
 
 “Baijal stressed the need for creation of new parking lots and upgradation of the existing ones to cater to the growing requirement of the area. He also directed the civic body to take steps for ducting of electrical wires and removal of over-head hanging wires — a common feature in Old Delhi,” said an official.
 
 Under the plans announced on Saturday, the space under Hanuman Mandir flyover will be undertaken for landscaping and beautification by the PWD. Two such projects have earlier been executed by the south civic body.
 
 “A list of the officials involved in the projects has been sought by the LG and he will be updated on the progress of these works next month,” said an official from the north corporation.
 
