Director duo   and Nandita Roy has proved their mettle again. Their family drama,  , that released on May 12, has given us this year's first blockbuster.   witnessed a historic opening but Posto, starring  , Jisshu Sengupta, Mimi Chakraborty and Argha Basu Roy, has left Praktan behind in the race. 

 City single-screen theatre Basusree is running 3 shows of   2 and one show of Posto. But Posto has outnumbered those 3 shows taken together. Back in 2015, when Shiboprasad Mukherjee and Nandita Roy's blockbuster   had released, megastar amitabh Bachchan had taken to Twitter to express his views on the film. He wrote, "'Belaseshe' ... the film in Bengali with subtitles.... it's simplicity grabs you by the heart and converts you into a human!" This year too, it looks like, history has repeated itself. Posto has released on the same day as Big B's Sarkar 3. The latter, however, has had very few takers in Bengal thanks to Posto's immense popularity. 
 
  
  
 
 
 A source from a multiplex tells us that the film opened to a fantastic response. "Even morning shows on the opening days registered a 90 % occupancy. Monday, single screens had around 75% occupancy which is amazing. The 3 pm show at Navina registered 70 % occupancy. People braved the sweltering heat to watch the film."
 
 Shiboprasad is elated with the response. "It's amazing that even in today's time, Bengali cinema opens to such great figures. This shows the power of good content. I am extremely happy for Soumitra Chatterjee today. At the age of 83, he shows how magic is created at the box office."
 
  
  
 
 
  chatterjee, who was spotted at the premiere of the movie, was all praise about the film. "Shibu da has, once gain, proved his worth. The film is relatable and everyone cted well. His films are always for the masses. And what can I say about Soumitra jethu? He's a legend. Content is king and this has what Posto has proven."
 
 The actor even took to Twitter to share his views on the film...
 
  
  
 
  
 
