NEW DELHI: A 'right-to-match' option could be the only hope left for   teams to retain their big stars if the governing council sends all the players back to the auction pool without retention.

 Sources said prominent Indian cricket board (BCCI) members are firm about sending all the cricketers back to the auction. However, Kolkata Knight Riders, Delhi Daredevils and   are in favour of having the option of matching cards, which permits team owners to retain players by matching their auction price.
 
 Sources said that both   and Mumbai Indians, who have the likes of   and   respectively, want retention of their big players. But Kings XI Punjab's co-owner Priety Zinta told TOI a couple of weeks back that BCCI had told all teams that all players would be back in the auction pool without retention.
 
 However, the two teams who will be joining the league after serving their two-year suspension -Chennai Super Kings and   - have a different take. CSK promoters are keen to get their old players like MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina, but the other teams are against the idea of the Chennai-based franchisee getting any undue advantage. IPL sources confirmed that CSK promoters are even open to the draft system which was given to two new teams Rising Pune Supergiants and Gujarat Lions.
 
 However, IPL hasn't given any assurance to CSK and it is understood that the two-time IPL champions may have to start from the scratch at the auction. Rajasthan Royals, however, won't mind going through the auction process.
 
 Sources also said that some of the top Indian cricketers are also backing the idea of retention. Whether the IPL GC will take this into account or not remains to be seen. Sources also said that a few board members have also floated the idea of 12 teams in IPL with two groups playing on a league-cum knockout basis. However, BCCI may not be in a position to increase the number of teams from eight to 10 or even more because the there isn't any window to accommodate those extra matches.
 
 Even broadcasters aren't keen to have more than eight teams and with India scheduled to play the 2019 World Cup in England right after IPL, it won't be easy for the IPL GC to go beyond the existing eight-team IPL.
 
 
