JAISALMER:   Haji Khan’s son deleted important data from his mobile which was meant to be sent to   in Pakistan,   claimed.

  was caught on Friday. He used to send information to Pak agency ISI through his relatives who came to visit them in Jaisalmer.
 
 Two Pakistani citizens were caught during search at Haji Khan’s residence. Khan had made all preparations to send secret information, photos, etc., through these relatives to Pakistan. Two Pak sims were also seized in the raid.
 
 Haji is a diabetes patient and his health deteriorated in Jodhpur. He is undergoing treatment and will be brought at Jaipur after two days.
 
 As per information from defence and intelligence sources, the security agencies on Friday morning raided Kunjadali village near Chandhan field firing range and caught Haji Khan. He had planned to send the information of Army and Air Force range to ISI through two Pak citizens whom he had accommodated at his house. However, the intelligence agencies in a joint operation raided his house.
 
 While the inquiry was on, Haji signalled his son to delete the information from his mobile phone. 
 
 Haji engaged the intelligence agencies in conversation for four hours. During this time, his son deleted all the information from the phone. Haji’s son confessed this during investigation.
 
 Sources said that when the security agencies seized Haji’s phone, there was no data in it. They are now taking help of FSL to recover the deleted data. 
 
 The teams also recovered two Pakistan sim cards from his house through which Haji passed on confidential information to ISI in Pakistan. 
 
 Haji had a lot of influence in his area and is associated with a political party, sources added.
 
 Haji’s two relatives from Pakistan, Sabhu Khan and Sodha Khan, were staying at his house. Intelligence agencies suspect that Haji was sending information through these relatives.
 
 However, during inquiry, Sabhu and Sodha denied that they were giving information to ISI. Pak currency to the tune of Rs 50,000 was recovered from the duo. They had a valid visa up to Jaisalmer. Thus, they were sent to Attari border.
 
 It is to be mentioned that some time back, the agencies had caught Bariyam Khan and Haji Khan from Kishangarh area along with Sadik Khan from Sam area on spying charges. While inquiring them, name of Haji Khan of Kunjadali came to light. Therefore, the security agencies were keeping an eye on him.
 
 
