PUNE: A tip-off related to another potential question   leak in the ongoing army recruitment process for posts of soldiers — general duty, clerk and tradesman category — kept the crime branch of the Thane   and the military intelligence ( )   on their toes through the night intervening Saturday and Sunday.

 A team from the units visited Alandi near Pune following information that 120 candidates from Latur district were being prepared for the recruitment exam on Sunday based on “leaked question paper”. However, despite a thorough search, nothing suspicious was found from the spot.
 
 The paper on Sunday was part of the phase-II written test. Candidates, shortlisted after the phase-I written test held on April 30, appeared for the test. The army authorities went ahead with the exam in Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur and close to 5,000 candidates appeared for the same on Sunday, sources said. 
 
 In Pune, nearly 2,000 candidates appeared for the exam held at the Army Institute of Physical Training and Bombay Engineering Group centre. Simultaneously, the exam for the Territorial Army group officers was also held at 14 centres in the city on Sunday.
 
 In February, the Thane crime branch had led a joint action in Pune, Nagpur and Panaji to unearth a major racket related to leaking of army recruitment exam paper. The Army Recruitment Board then cancelled the exam and a re-examination was held on April 30.
 
 Thane crime branch’s senior inspector Ravindra Doiphode said, “We had received a tip-off on Saturday night that the army’s recruitment paper had been leaked. We carried out a search at a dharamshala located on the Pune-Alandi Road in the early hours of Sunday morning but we didn’t find any substantial evidence.”
 
 Sources said that a candidate from Latur, who was to appear for the exam in Pune, had told the police that nearly 120 candidates were referencing the army recruitment question papers for the last two days in preparation of the exam.
 
 “During investigation, we found that the owner of a private academy in Latur had hired a hall two days ago. We recovered some documents during the search and the same showed that candidates had solved some question papers. However, we could not verify whether they were in possession of an actual question paper,” sources stated.
 
 The probe revealed that a private academy owner had sought Rs10,000 as fees from every candidate and provided them logistics before appearing for the exam on Sunday. “He also collected the original educational certificates from these candidates and was supposed to receive Rs 1.5 lakh from each of the recruited candidate in exchange of these documents. This is a common modus operandi deployed by most private academy owners,” an officer shared.
 
