CHANDIGARH: AAP supremo   claimed on Tuesday that   president Capt   was contesting from   constituency for the 2014 assembly elections to help SAD patron and CM Parkash Singh Badal.

 Kejriwal said Amarinder wanted to split the “anti-Badal” votes between AAP and Congress. He added that by contesting from Badal’s electoral stronghold, Amarinder had “backstabbed” the people of Punjab. “Still, AAP candidate Jarnail Singh will win in Lambi. Badal had saved Capt Amarinder in corruption cases. Now, he is returning the favour,” he said.
 
 Talking to mediapersons, Kejriwal claimed that cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu joining the Congress did not matter to his party. He added that SAD’s cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia would be put “behind bars” before April 15 if AAP came to power.
 
 When asked about the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal, Kejriwal said the issue was political and AAP would work out a plan to resolve it at different levels. “If Modi wanted, he could have gotten rid of the problem in no time because there’s a   government at the Centre, and also in Punjab and Haryana,” he said.
 
 Kejriwal added that there was no “yes or no” answer to the SYL issue. “SAD had acquired the land for the canal and the then Congress Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, laid the foundation,”
 
 he said. “Badal family had received prime land in Gurgaon for Sukhbir Badal’s hotel in lieu of giving nod for construction of the canal. The SAD-BJP alliance and Congress have been taking political advantage of the dispute and construction of SYL canal for 30 years. They are not interested in resolving the issue for vested interests.”
 
 Box:
 
 AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, in reply to a question, reached out to suspended AAP leader and Patiala MP Dharamvir Gandhi, saying that his parting ways from the party was unfortunate and a serious matter. “I appeal to him to stand with the people and not divide opposition votes. He should not work against the interests of Punjab. His candidates are not going to win in any case,” he said.
 
 
