GHAZIABAD: Despite the jaat agitation being stalled on Sunday night, the   suffered a similar fate that was witnessed on Sunday morning. The vehicular movement was extremely slow due to the ongoing checking being done by barricading all the exits towards Delhi including UP Gate border, Bhopura Border and Maharajpur Border by the Delhi Police as a precautionary measure to scan public buses, cars, private transport as well for any foul play to avoid any hassle in the wake of the ongoing parliament session. 

 The special checking drive is supposed to end by the evening, soon after the ongoing parliament session culminates. 
  
  
 The sluggish movement of traffic on NH24 continued till 11:30 am, beginning from 7:30 am, thus directly impacting the office goers, who were stalled in a traffic deadlock that lasted more than three hours. The traffic generated from Shipra underpass in  , and the CISF diversion close to Sector 62 and from the Khora Cut saw a jamming response, as people were rendered helpless and could not go past the heavy barricading installed at the UP Gate exit towards Delhi. "I live in Gaur Green Vista Society, which is located right adjacent to NH24 and a service road links the highway to the main gate of my society. I had to wait for almost two hours in the traffic jam, and reaching the highway simply from the service road took me more than 45 minutes, as the traffic density was completely swelled up. There was no space," said Lokesh Parashar, a commuter.
 
 Similar sentiments were share by Priya Kalra, a resident of Indirapuram, who took the Shipra underpass exit towards NH24 and had to wait for nearly and hour and a half before she could cross the UP Gate exit towards Delhi. " There was bumper to bumper traffic and I am extremely late for work. This mess has been happening since the last two days. If the agitation has been called off, why are they still troubling the commuters with this unnecessary policing? Do they have respect for anyone's time?," she asked. 
 
 
  
 NH 24, being one of the most heavily populated highways, witnesses traffic from Ghaziaabd city, Hapur, Meerut, Govindpuram and the far away rural towns of Uttar Pradesh as well. Hence, the affect of any kind of blockage in its movement, results in a paralysing affect for the traffic.
 
 " We have RAF, CISF Companies, the traffic police from both UP and Delhi and also the normal police constables from UP and Delhi police as well. The heavy deployment has been trained to man the approaching traffic.We are checking the type of people sitting in buses, young or old. If a car is full of young men along with old people we are stopping them for checking as well. We are also trying to stop private and public buses. A crane has also been called for people who try to park illegally and run away," said Omvir Singh Bishnoi, DCP, Delhi Police. 
 
 " The traffic that usually rolls in three different lanes has been running in one single lane, that has further aggravated the problem and caused a jam," added a  .
 
 However, the vehicular movement has been steady since 11:30 and the checking has been minimal at this time. 
 
