BENGALURU:   are undergoing refresher courses to be better prepared to deal with new threats and cases, with a special focus on cybercrime. All the 11 training schools have been told to upgrade their syllabus and rope in experts from various fields to train police officials and the constabulary.

 The Channapatna Police Training School is the first school to provide this specialized training in the state with 200 assistant sub-inspectors ( ) having completed their training in cybercrime, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act-2012 among other Acts and amendments to the existing laws.
 
 Karnataka DG and IGP R K Dutta had earlier told TOI that with changing environments and new types of crimes, the department which is grappling with huge shortage and under-trained staff, will be given regular refresher courses.
 
 “There’s a lack of expertise in the fields of cybercrime while there is very little understanding of the newer Acts like POCSO or the JJ ACT (Juvenile Justice). This training will help them investigate such cases which are on a rise better,” superintendent of police Indu Shekar, who is also the principal of the Channapatna Police Training School, said on Sunday. 
 
 He said specialists from each of these fields have been roped in and a new syllabus has been developed to train the personnel. 
 
 “While we have in-house (at the school) experts, we thought we must bring in experts who have on-ground experience in dealing with such cases. All the 11 schools have been directed to introduce the new syllabus, but we are doing it first as several of them are busy with basic training which is essential,” Shekar said.
 
 From Monday, 500 constables with at least five years of experience—200 each from the Bengaluru (Commissioner’s Office and Bengaluru central division) and 100 from Mysuru division—will begin their training. They will also be trained on newer weapons like the INSAS and Self Loading Rifles (SLRs). 
 
 “The 303 rifles are being phased out. While a lot of them are still in use, we think it is better that our personnel be prepared for the future. The CAR (City Armed Reserve) and a few other wings of the police are partially using INSAS and SLRs but they are yet to become the mainstay,” Shekar said.
 
 
