COIMBATORE: Around two weeks ago, 78-year-old Jaiben Jumani, who had suffered a fracture in his legs, had come to the city to spend a few weeks with his daughter. The man, who arrived at the   from Chennai, was desperate to use the toilet. He was wheeled 200 metres by his daughter to the only accessible bathroom for platforms three and four. Getting to a toilet at the station should be a simple process.

 But for Jumani, it was a frustrating experience as his wheelchair got stuck due to a broken tile just ahead of the toilet. His daughter also had to step into the toilet with him as it was wet. 
 
 While using public toilets at the railway junction is a hassle for regular passengers, it is a nightmare for the disabled. The toilets are located at one end of each platform. Besides, they are wet and rusted. However, there is some good news. City-based  ,  , with the permission of  , will renovate the toilets on the three platforms to make them more user-friendly for the disabled.
 
 The NGO and Salem division official had surveyed the accessible toilets a couple of weeks ago, said divisional railway manager, Hari Shekhar Verma. "We inspected the accessible toilets along with the other public toilets on the platform. We identified a few repairs to be made," he said. "Meanwhile, Swarga Foundation, which works with disabled people, met with me and offered to make the toilets disabled-friendly," he added.
 
 The toilets, during the NGO's inspection, were found to have completely rusted handle-bars, wet and slippery tiles, western closets without seats, no health faucets, broken tiles and wash basins and mirrors which are too high for wheelchair bound users. The toilets were also locked and when opened after an hour of waiting, were found filled with mud. 
 
 "The project will include replacing the bathroom tiles with tiles that will not be slippery, replacing the metal handle bars with a material like stainless steel that will not rust and creating grab bars on both sides of the toilets," said Swarga Foundation founder, G Swarnalatha. "We also hope to make the accessible toilets have both Indian and Western closet. But we will raise the Indian closet by six inches from the surface so the floors remain dry," he said. 
 
 If time and budget permits, the Rs2.5lakh project, funded by the NGO, will also include fixing health faucets and lowering the wash basins, mirrors and ensuring continuous water supply. "In one of the platforms, we have asked to make the bathroom in the air-condition lounge accessible, because it is spacious and well-maintained," said the coordinator at Swarga Foundation, Anand Selvaraj.
 
 The project, which is expected to begin two months after the railways issues a written permission, is likely to take around three months to complete. "We aim to make the toilets not only use friendly for the mobility impaired but for the blind too," said G Swarnalatha. 
 
