HYDERABAD: An internal survey by the   has revealed that CM   is the best performer (98%) followed by son and IT minister K T Rama Rao and Ramagundam MLA Somarapu Satyanarayana (91% each). CM's nephew and irrigation minister T Ha rish Rao (88%) was at number 3.The survey also revealed that if assembly elections were held now, the TRS would win 106 of the 119 seats.

 A similar survey on performance of all TRS MLAs three months ago had ranked Harish Rao second and KTR third. The survey rankings announced by KCR in the legislature party meeting on Saturday gave the fourth rank to Station Ghanpur MLA T Rajaiah (86%). More than half the MLAs have received more than 60% ratings and only 10% were still struggling to get the pass mark, a senior leader said.
 
 “The CM is satisfied with TRS MLAs' performance. He has told all MPs to tour at least two districts with MLAs. He also told them to continue to work hard till the elections to ensure TRS gets more than 50% vote in every constituency,“ TRS MP B Vinod told TOI.
 
 The TRS is likely to get more than 80% votes in nine districts, while the TDP and   may end up without representation in the assembly . Main opposition party   may get only 2 seats, Madhira and   , against its present tally of 23 seats, the survey predicted. The   is likely to retain its base in the   with 6 seats. Ninetyone assembly constituencies reported more than 50% vote share for the TRS. While six seats were likely to witness a tough fight between TRS and Congress, in 114 seats the public mood was already fixed, it said.
 
 Except Hyderabad, all districts were witnessing a sweep in favour of the TRS, KCR said at the TRS parliamentary and legislature party joint meeting at Telangana Bhavan on Saturday . Enthused by the survey, KCR said all sitting MLAs would be re-nominated.
 
 The survey result was derived from a big sample from 10 districts. According to KCR, farmers of all categories rallied behind the party while 99% backward castes were backing the pink party .
 
 Among state schemes, regularisation of 'Sadabinama', an informal paper registration, received maximum support from people, followed by sheep distribution, free fertilisers and KCR kits.
 
