GURUGRAM: Residents of new areas of Gurgaon — covering sectors 58 to 118 — are growing tired of the endless wait for  , even as they struggle with power from diesel gensets along with the attending interruptions, cuts and pollution. Around 1,500 residents have recently signed an online petition, requesting swift remedy. 

 “Since we moved here three years ago, power has been supplied by generators. Supply is a problem during peak season, when generators can’t take excessive load and we face frequent and long cuts,” said IT professional Pankaj Joshi, who lives in Vatika Next, Sector 82A.
 
 For now, generators worry residents for a different reason — they are adding to the city’s already high pollution levels. “We’ve been living here for two years and a half. 
 
 There are at least 10-12 gensets in our township, besides ones in nearby societies. Imagine the kind of pollution they emit,” said Arvind Reevo, who works at TCS and lives in Vatika Next.
 
 Elsewhere, developers have arranged supply from a rural line, but that’s hardly good news. “The rural supply has low voltage, and we we fall back on gensets most of the time,” said Sunil Reevo, a civil engineer who lives in Antariksh apartments.
 
 Residents added there was no communication from developers or authorities on the status of power supply. 
 
 “The builder told us they’ve submitted the requisite deposit to the government, so it’s up to them to provide infrastructure,” said Ravi Sharma, a resident of Sidhartha NCR One in Sector 95.
 
 The substation meant to supply sectors 85 and 95 is yet to come up. According to   (HVPNL) officials, land has been acquired for it and a tender was passed in November 2016. “Tenders for substations for all new sectors between 58 and 115 are open,” said a senior HVPNL official.
 
 A substation takes two years for completion after a tender is accepted. The official said, “Till new substations are built, we’ll supply power to these sectors from existing substations, for which capacity augmentation is under way.”
 
 
