
 
  Five days after four former senior employees of the IDBI Bank, including the then chairman Yogesh Agarwal, were arrested by the CBI in the Rs 950 crore loan default case against Vijay Mallya, it has emerged that every banking guideline was flouted to sanction the loan and disburse the money.
  
  With no checks in place, not only was the loan approved despite   already running up a debt of Rs 6,000 crore, it has also come to light that Mallya’s UB Group had defaulted on the credit facilities of the IDBI Bank itself, the CBI charge sheet says.
  
  The charge sheet, accessed by Mirror, says the Kingfisher Airlines’ ratings were enhanced without any reason during internal assessment by the bank officials, suggesting one of the biggest banking/corporate frauds in the country. Here’s what the CBI has found.
  
  
 
  The charge sheet says the Kingfisher Airlines’ debt was already in excess of Rs 6,000 crore when it approached the IDBI Bank for a loan in 2009. The airline had reported a loss of Rs 687 crore the previous fiscal, and by 2009, the losses had multiplied to more than Rs 2,000 crore. According to the charge sheet, the first chunk of the loan (Rs 150 crore) was sanctioned after just two meetings between Aggarwal and Mallya, and disbursed between October 9 and 14, 2009 (within a week of application).
  
  
 
  The charge sheet says when arrested accused A Raghunathan, the former CEO of Kingfisher Airlines, approached the bank for sanction of a short-term loan of 150 crore, the application merely referred to Mallya’s meetings with Agarwal and said that money was required to meet certain obligations to overseas vendors. There were no documents included in the application, nor were there any details of overseas vendors. The charge sheet says this indicates the willingness to give the loan had been “pre-decided” during Mallya’s meeting with Agarwal.
  
  
 
  The charge sheet says after the first chunk of loan was disbursed, Kingfisher Airline raised a further requirement of Rs 400 crore. However, the bank approved Rs 550 crore. Because of this the total amount disbursed to the company is Rs 1,100 crore.
  
  
 
  According to the charge sheet, Agarwal issued specific directions for processing the Rs 950 crore loan and putting up the same in the bank’s executive committee meeting with positive recommendations. “Without such positive recommendations the proposal wouldn’t have made it to the executive committee,” the charge sheet said.
  
  
 
  The charge sheet says ratings of Kingfisher Airline, provided during internal assessment by a bank official, were enhanced beyond stipulated limit by the bank’s risk rating committee without assigning any special reasons for the same.
  
  
 
  The UB Group had dealings with the bank through its subsidiaries WIE Engineering and United Breweries, which had defaulted on the credit facilities provided by the bank. However, just before Kingfisher Airline approached the bank for loan, both these companies ‘settled’ the matter with the bank. “The last settlement took place only a month before the first chunk of the loan was disbursed,” the charge sheet says.
