MUMBAI: They've been the team to beat all weekend at the Nexa P1   Indian Grand Prix of the Seas, and Sunday turned out to be no different as Sam and   sealed their dominance by winning the third and final race. 

 It not only completed a hat-trick of race wins for the Welsh brother-sister pairing, who had also zoomed to victory in both 15-lap races on Saturday, it gave their team,  , the prize that ultimately mattered - the   for finishing the event's inaugural edition as champions.
 
 This was, after all, a team event, even if each of the six teams had two P1 Panthers on the grid. It's what therefore made it a special day from an Indian perspective too as CS Santosh and Martin Robinson, competing in the other Baleno RS Booster Jets boat, joined Sam and Daisy on the podium.
 
 The perfect set of 60 points achieved by the Coleman siblings across all three races coupled with the 29 points amassed by Santosh and his UK navigator Martin Robinson gave the Baleno RS Booster Jets their championship winning tally of 89. It was two points superior to the 87 managed by runners-up Lloyd Dolphins.
 
 If it was the brother-sister bond that worked wonders for the Baleno RS Booster Jets Booster Jets, then Lloyd Dolphins, too, benefited from having a special duo on board with Stuart Cureton and wife Sara picking up 40 points. But it was the American pair of   and William Enriquez, in boat number 21 of the Lloyd Dolphins, who really caused the Colemans problems on Sunday after they stole ahead of Moneyon Mobile Marlins duo, James Norvill and Christian Parsons-Young, who were second on the starting grid, early in the race. “When Craig got past James, they really put the heat on us,” Sam said later. “I made some big mistakes at that point. I also felt my arm cramp up a bit in the first five laps. I haven't had that in ages but thankfully it eased up by the eight lap.”
 
 As Sam and his younger sister soaked in the applause, watching silently from the side of the press centre were their parents, Chris and Janet. Sam, who is a full-time business partner with his parents -the trio run a hotel back in South West Wales -had flown them down along with younger sister Lucy as a special surprise for Daisy on Tuesday. Safe to say it's been a dream week for the Coleman household.
 
