A well-known name in Pune’s theatre circuit, actor Amey Wagh’s popularity has grown by leaps and bounds these days. Not only has he made a place in the TV viewers’ hearts but also in those of the film buffs, courtesy his recently released Muramba. Amey has now stepped into the shoes of a character that has ruled the hearts of Marathi readers for decades. 

 As  , the actor is all set to bring BR Bhagwat’s adventurous teen detective alive onscreen. “Marathi literature has gems that are waiting to be made into films. It is actually surprising that no one had touched Bhagwat’s work till date,” says Amey adding, "Many people say that I fit the character of Fene perfectly. Moreover, the film is based in contemporary times and my character has grown up."
 
  
  
 
 Right from his days at the city’s Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC), Amey has earned appreciation for his acting skills. Be it Geli Ekvees Varsha, the TV show Dil Dosti Duniyadari (DDD) or Muramba, the viewers have always showered praises on his portrayals. But it was DDD that was a turning point according to him. “The show helped me reach households and establish a connection with not just youngsters but people of all age groups,” he says. 
 
 Even today, most people recognise him as ‘that guy from Dil Dosti Duniyadari’. However, the fame came at a cost. The requests for selfies and autographs are endless. “It gets tiring after a point but I do my best to oblige. In fact, it’s not just that. After DDD, I received almost 15-16 film offers but ended up doing only two of them,” says Amey, who confesses to have had hilarious encounters in the industry.
 
 Despite doing film and television, theatre remains Amey’s first love and through Natak Company (the city-based theatre group that he is a part of), he keeps that love alive. “Most of the times, groups get disbanded after members start getting individual projects. But that’s not the case with us,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 For his upcoming film, the actor followed a strict fitness regime to fit the part of the teen detective. “The FaFe that people know from the books has grown up in our film. He is a contemporary, tech-savvy 20-ish boy with a curious mind. To look the part, I had to lose 10 kgs and I did. But the shoot got deferred and I had to start shooting for Muramba too,” says Amey, who put on weight for the Varun Narvekar film and got back in shape for the   directorial. 
 
 Amey, who has also featured in a successful web-series, feels that today we have social media handy for promotions but very few people know how to use it effectively. He says, “We are in a romantic phase with the medium. To make full use of it, people need to study it first.”
 
 Ever since the teaser of his upcoming film is out, people have been comparing it to Sherlock and other Hollywood detective flicks. Does this bother him? “See, if you are comparing my work with something that has set certain standards, it’s good. At the same time, I feel that if you want to compare it with something, do it with the original work which the film is based on,” he feels. "In fact, after the teaser released, people have been comparing FaFe with Sherlock and Marvel and DC films," he adds.
 
 Ask him how much a big studio or producer’s backing helps and he replies, “It matters a lot because ultimately, just making a film is of no use. It has to reach the people. And I think that’s where the Marathi industry, barring a few exceptions, falls short.” Amey, who has also featured in a successful web-series, feels that today we have social media handy for promotions but very few people know how to actually use it. He says, “We are in a romantic phase with the medium. To make full use of it, people have to study it first. What I also like about social media is that even print and television mediums pick up posts from there as news.”
 
 On the personal front, Amey recently tied the knot with Sajiri Deshpande. Has life changed post marriage, we ask. “Not really. I am the way I was before. What has changed is that now, I have someone to go back home to and share my feelings with. Yes, work keeps me busy but that’s something both of us have gotten used to now. We were in a long-distance relationship for the longest time,” he says.
 
  
  
 
