NEW DELHI: In what appeared to have snuffed out hopes of a rapprochement in UP’s first family, 
  declared on Sunday that he continued to be the president of Samajwadi Party and described as “illegitimate” the national convention called by his son 
  and his supporters, where the chief minister was crowned as the new party chief.

 With time running out and the   set to pronounce its verdict on respective claims by the Mulayam and Akhilesh factions to SP’s ‘cycle’ symbol, it could well lead to a quadrangular contest in the coming polls, leaving the two party factions to fight it out with BJP and Mayawati’s BSP. Congress and the Akhilesh camp have already expressed their intent to tie up.
 
 “I am the national president of Samajawadi Party and   is CM of UP.   is still the chief of SP’s UP unit,” Mulayam told a press conference here.
 
 “Ram Gopal was expelled from the party for six years on December 30. Therefore, the party’s national convention was illegal,” said Mulayam.
 
 Mulayam claimed the signatures of support from MLAs given by the Akhilesh camp to the Election Commission (EC) had no value as they ceased to be legislators after the model code of conduct came into force on January 4 with the announcement of the poll schedule. The Mulayam camp is set to meet the EC on Monday to question the genuineness of the affidavits submitted to the EC by his cousin Ram Gopal, the general secretary of the rival camp.
 
 Sources said Mulayam came up with confusing statements. While he appeared to be in a conciliatory mood before the media briefing where   joined him, with the Rajya Sabha member by held captive by party leaders like Amar Singh, who are misguiding him”.
 
 Amar Singh also alleged that the signatures of support from MLAs and party officebearers, given to the EC by Ram Gopal, were forged and their authenticity was suspect.
 
 Singh later turned emotional and offered to quit the party, saying he didn’t want to be seen as the reason for the “rift” within the Yadav family.
 
 If the two factions fail to resolve their differences or the EC is unable to take a call on their respective claims due to paucity of time, the panel may freeze the ‘cycle’ symbol and allot two different symbols to the factions.
 
 In his affidavits to the EC on behalf of the Akhilesh camp, Ram Gopal has claimed to have the support of 205 MLAs, 56 MLCs and 15 MPs. The Mulayam faction is to contest the claim on Monday.
 
 Before leaving for the national capital, Mulayam reached the SP headquarters in Lucknow on Sunday morning and sat in his office for almost half an hour. Sources said Mulayam got his room locked before leaving the party office.
 
 SP leader Naresh Uttam, who has been appointed state president replacing Shivpal Yadav by Akhilesh Yadav, rubbished reports that Mulayam had got his nameplate fixed outside his room at the party office. “Mulayam Singh’s nameplate was never removed, so where is the question of it being put up again,” he said. Mulayam was made the party patron at the convention called by the Akhilesh camp.
 
 In his brief interaction with the party workers, Mulayam maintained, “There is no dispute within the party.”
 
