PUNE: The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology ( ) will offer a two-year master of science (MSc)   in   technology starting this academic year. 

 The deemed university is controlled by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).
 
 The course aims to provide trained personnel to secure the quality of food being supplied to troops at different locations, including Jammu and Kashmir as well as Northeast India. The DIAT has tied up with the Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL) in a bid to offer the course.
 
 A senior DRDO officer told TOI, “The Army headquarter specifically requested DRDO to come up with a special postgraduate course in food technology. Accordingly, the syllabus was selected as per the requirement of the forces.” The DFRL has been conducting postgraduate diploma courses in food analysis and quality assurance in collaboration with the University of Mysore.
 
 A senior DFRL scientist said, “Officers from the Army Supply Corps (ASC), who inspect the food for the force, would undertake a diploma course at the laboratory. So far, over 40 officers from the ASC have completed the course.”
 
 As of now, the intake for the   course has been restricted to 12 officers. A DIAT professor said, “In the first year of the course, candidates would mainly study theoretical aspects, while practicals and research projects will be conducted at the DFRL thereafter.”
 
 The DFRL would teach 15 different subjects on Food Technology across two semesters. “In the final semester, candidates will have to complete a six-month project that could be based on the troops’ field requirement.” he added. 
 
 DIAT professors and DFRL scientists believe the course would help the armed forces to understand the nitty-gritty of food in detail. The course will also be extended to officers of the paramilitary forces in the near future, claimed sources. Recently, several soldiers from the paramilitary forces had complained about the quality of food they received on social media.
 
