Navratri is a festival known for bringing various communities together. This unity can be best put into focus through Usman Gilder’s and his family’s contribution. As a service to Goddess Durga, the family polishes the idols and silver jewellery of idols at various temples, including the   Mata Mandir at Satara Road and Mahalaxmi Mandir at Sarasbaug, Mahaganpati Mandir at Ranjangaon and other temples across the city, free of cost!

  Started 112 years ago at a shop in Raviwar Peth by  , the legacy is being taken forward by three brothers- Karim, Hamid and Rahim.
 
  A fourth generation member, Karim  , takes pride in what they do at Usmanbhai Gilder and Sons. He says, “Our family has been into this profession for more than a hundred years. The festival brings communities together and hence, as seva to Goddess Durga, we offer our services free of cost. The temple trusts pay us only for the polishing material we use on the idol’s jewellery and other items like the crown, wall and chhatri etc. We have been associated with the   for the last 16 years now.”
  
  Karim and his father, Usmanbhai, have been polishing ornaments for various temples for quite a few years now. “People never see us differently. In fact, we are looked upon with respect everywhere. Even inside temples, no one has ever stopped or questioned us. We have never been treated like outsiders,” he says.
  
  While some have allowed them to offer their Ramzan namaaz from the temple’s pier, others have organised their evening iftar. Karim says, “Once, we were working for Sachchaimata Mandir in Katraj during Ramzan and the authorities made arrangements for the food that we needed to break the roza with. The temple trustees also gave us a separate space on the premises to offer prayers in-between working hours. It’s a different level of unity that we have encountered everywhere and it makes us feel that we are all equal.”
 
  Not long ago, they were busy cleaning all the five Maanache   ahead of the Ganeshotsav. The family has also been polishing the ornaments of the Dagdusheth Ganpati temple for over a decade. The Gilders cater to almost 25 Ganesh mandals in the city during the festival. “My grandfather started this business, where we provide finishing touches to ornaments and other gold and silver items,” adds the 48-year-old. Besides, they travel to   every year before the annual wari to ready the Vitthal Mandir there for the Warkaris’ arrival.
 
 
