LUCKNOW: After the one for the  , the   led non-BJP opposition parties are all geared up to field a joint candidate for the   as well. Elections for the post is scheduled for August 5. The present vice-president   is due to retire on August 30.

 Congress president Sonia Gandhi has invited all the opposition parties for a meeting in New Delhi on July 11 when the name of the joint candidate may be finalized. Sources said that the two key regional political parties from UP -- Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party -- have given their consent to attend the meeting. While,   would be represented by its Rajya Sabha member Ram Gopal Yadav, the   chief Mayawati has decided to send her close aide and RS member SC Mishra as her party representative.
 
 BJP-led NDA has fielded Bihar governor Ramnath Kovind as its candidate for the top constitutional post, while the non-BJP opposition has nominated Congress leader and former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar as a joint opposition candidate. While the name of NDA candidate is yet to be decided for th vice-presient’s post, sources said that that the opposition may opt for a non-Congress candidate.
 
 The SP is already divided over the opposition’s choice for Kumar with SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and his brother Shivpal Yadav supporting Kovind. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar-led Janta Dal (United) which, too, has not only been keeping a safe distance from the opposition but also supported Kovind’s candidature. When contacted, JD (U) MP KC Tyagi said that the decision to attend the meeting called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on the VP candidate would be taken by Nitish Kumar. “He will make the final announcement,’’ he said while speaking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 Kumar’s stance vis-à-vis meeting called by Congress to decide on the name of vice-president gains much political significance even as his ally partner and Rashtriay Janta Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and his family members face a CBI and enforcement directorate probe over allegations of corruption charges.
 
 
 
 
