Gujarat high court’s judges have decided to work for one week during the   and to take old cases pending for years for final hearing and adjudication. Chief Justice R S Reddy called bar association’s president Asim Pandya and conveyed that the judges are willing to work during the first week of summer break and sought cooperation form the lawyers. The Bar president has invited names of the lawyers who would work for the week during the summer vacation so that the cases could be identified to put up before the court during the 

 vacation.
 
 Stay on Jethava case trial extended
 
 The special CBI court will not be able to deliver its verdict in the RTI activist Amit Jethava murder case, as Gujarat HC on Friday extended its stay on the trial in response to Jethava’s father, Bhikalal’s plea alleging that 105 out of 182 witnesses turned hostile due to pressure from prime accused and ex-BJP MP Dinu Bogha Solanki. The CBI filed its reply and told the HC that eight eye-witnesses have turned hostile. The HC further inquired whether these eight witnesses, who turned hostile during the trial, had made complaint before their deposition or after that. Further hearing is posted on April 12.
 
 Naroda Gam case: SIT court reserves its order
 
 The special SIT court hearing the   case has reserved its order till April 12 on accused persons’ application to recall investigating officer and IPS officer   for further examination with regard to his deposition about statements earlier given by three cops – M K Tandon, P B Gondia and K K Mysorewala. The officer on Friday replied to the court and clarified that there was no further probe conducted after his deposition. The court had asked the prosecution to get clarity over Shukla’s earlier reply.
 
 RTI activist seeks HC directive
 
 RTI activist   has approached Gujarat HC seeking directions to the Centre to refrain from bringing in certain amendments in the Right to Information Act. He has objected to the proposed provision for applicants to withdraw their application. Desai argues that this would give encouragement to coercive tactics. He also submitted that till date 52 RTI activists have been killed and nearly 300 have faced assaults across the country. The HC has kept further hearing three weeks later and suggested Desai to give his suggestions to the Centre with regard to change in RTI laws.
 
 
