CHENNAI: Seventeen thousand saplings will be planted in the next two months on a 51-km stretch along two state highways – one from Chengalpattu to Sadurangapatnam and the other from Kancheepuram to Vandavasi.

 Chengalpattu divisional forest officer Ram Mohan said both state highways – 58 and 116 – have been widened into four lanes under the   Road Sector Project 2 at a total cost of Rs 185 crore. The project is funded by the  . which wanted a professional organization to do planting along the roads, Nine thousand saplings are to be planted in the first stretch while another 8,000 will be planted in the second. (two meter tall) and in the second one 8,000 similar saplings are scheduled to be planted. The saplings are ready in the nursery. The department has already planted 3,000 saplings on each stretch.
 
 The planting is being carried out by both the territorial division and the social forestry division along the two stretches. The work is expected to be completed in the next couple of months, Ram Mohan said.
 
 Until now, the   authorities themselves used to plant saplings after widening the roads. But, most of the time the trees became the first victims. This is the first time the planting work has been entrusted to the forest department, he said.
 
 Shallow-rooted trees such as delonix regia, copper pod and tabubea rosea had previously been planted in the thousands in and around avenues in the city. However, when cyclone Vardah hit the city, these trees became the first victims.
 
 In order to avoid a similar scenario, the department this time has decided to plant native species. Nearly a dozen native species of trees have been identified and raised in the nurseries. These include neem, banyan, peepul, tamarind, pungan, jamoon, iluppai, neer marudhu and magizham.
 
 All the species of saplings are raised nearly a year and half ago. Now the planting work has started. Many of the highways in the state used to have tamarind and neem trees that are more than 100 years old. They used to provide shade during peak summer days.
 
 With the planting of native species saplings, the widened roads will get the same old tree cover. Already the state highway connecting Chengalpattu to Uthiramerur and beyond has neem and tamarind trees on both sides.
 
 The department is providing an eco-friendly guard. This guard is made of bamboo waste. These natural tree guards are manufactured in Cuddalore district, where it is a cottage industry, Mohan Ram added.
 
