Etawah-Mainpuri: The prospect of SP shedding seats as compared to its blitz in 2012 has triggered a scramble among rivals   and BSP for non-Yadavs which can help them profit from the opening provided by the infighting in the   clan on its home turf. 

 In the   heartland, the contest is boiling down to who can best aggregate communities ranged against the dominant caste group. This approach had no chance the last time when a Samajwadi wave, riding on anger against the   regime, snuffed out the competition. Now in  , where CM Akhilesh Yadav replaced MLA Raghuraj Shakya, a Shivpal nominee, with Kuldeep Gupta, BSP has fielded a Brahmin. 
 
 With Dalits in good numbers as also Muslims, Mayawati is eyeing her chances if Brahmins vote for “their nominee”. BJP has fielded a Thakur and is hoping upper castes would show a natural affinity for the party now that it is back in the reckoning. But crucially, between upper castes and Dalits are Shakyas/Mauryas who have the muscle to tilt the scales. BJP has deployed  , a former Mayawati confidant, to bait the group. BSP has had a claim on this group for years and has fielded faces from the community in nearby seats. In neighbouring Bharthana, a reserved constituency, a chunk of Dalits appears to be veering towards BSP while BJP is banking on Shakyas and upper castes. For SP, shaken by internal sabotage, the contest will boil down to “Yadav pride”.
 
 Will a section be swayed by disgruntled managers close to Shivpal or vote in the name of the party they identify with? This may well decide the fate of Etawah-Mainpuri, and by extension neighbouring Auraiyya and Kannauj — the mainstay of SP. These districts have a high Yadav concentration which Mulayam has moulded into a solid base. SP swept Mainpuri in 2012. Now, the eviction of Shivpal loyalists has given rivals a whiff of a chance. By local estimates, BSP is the main challenger, though BJP is working hard in two seats, especially in Bhogaon where it has fielded a Brahmin.But a political observer said, “Each seat has over 60,000 Yadavs. The city seat is witnessing a close contest but actually defeating MLA Raju Yadav would take a lot.” A paramedical student with a house in Mainpuri city, not wishing to be named, said the buzz is strong that the Yadav vote might split owing to sabotage. “If it happens, SP will lose,” he predicted. Yet, the feisty Raju, once known for his rough ways, did not betray nerves, ending his campaign by repeatedly flagging his development work of “bijli” and “sadak” and swearing by Akhilesh. As he seeks the mantle of a pan-caste youth icon, success on home turf is down to Akhilesh’s ability to emerge the new Yadav mascot.
 
