JODHPUR: Actor   told a court on Friday only the first post-mortem report, by Dr N P Nepalia -which said the blackbuck had died of natural causes as a result of falling into a deep hole, and of dog bite -was true, and the second one, citing “gunshot wounds“, was not.

 Saif Ali Khan, Tabu, Sonali Bendre and Neelam, all actors and co-accused as abettors to the crime, also told the court only the first post-mortem report was correct.
 
 The actors were making their personal statements as accused in the blackbuck   in the court of chief judicial magistrate   here.
 
 The magistrate, after summarising the prosecution's case against the accused, put 65 questions to Salman and 61 to the other ac tors. Salman Khan answered “true“ or “false“, but mostly with “galat (wrong)“, as the proceedings were held in Hindi. At the start, though, when asked his “caste“, he replied, “Hindu, Muslim“, and added “Indian“ too.
 
 The stars are facing trial in an 18-year-old case and their alleged crime was committed when they were shooting Suraj Barjatiya's “Hum Saath Saath Hain“. They reached court almost simultaneously on Friday . Salman arrived a minute earlier, at 11.19 am, in a white Fortuner. The stars are facing trial in an 18-year-old case and their alleged crime was committed when they were shooting Suraj Barjatiya's “Hum Saath Saath Hain“. They reached court almost simultaneously on Friday . Salman arrived a minute earlier, at 11.19 am, in a white Fortuner. A large police force had set up barricades to keep fans, many waiting since 9 am, and the media too, at bay . This was the third time all of them were in court together. The next time they are, it will be for the verdict.
 
 The trial had been on hold for six years after the state had moved the Rajasthan high court challenging the dropping of a few sections of the law pertaining to unlawful assembly . The trial resumed in 2013 and is almost over, finally.
 
 All the accused, starting with Dushyant Singh, a co-accused alleged to have taken the actors to the spot in the forest, pleaded innocence and false implication. None of them wanted to examine any defence witness, except Salman who said he would. The court fixed the matter for February 15 to decide on a date for his witness, if any.
 
 The proceedings began at around 11.30 am when Dushyant Singh, in answer to 58 questions from the court, denied that he had been at the forest with the actors or that he showed the actors the Gypsy and guided them into the forest. Salman Khan, wearing what he usually wears to court -blue shirt and blue jeans, hair closely cropped -stood between his lawyers Anand Desai and Hastimal Saraswat and answered questions softly , while Saif Ali Khan's lawyer   -who represented Salman in the Mumbai 2002 fatal crash trial -stood nearby . There was no sitting space and at one point the room grew so stuffy that Tabu oened a window to the left of the CJM. Salman Khan was asked more questions than the oth ers. Questions 4, 5, 9 and 10 pertained to the weapons. To the query whether he had asked that his arms be sent back to Mumbai, he said that was false and that one Uday Raghavan had brought them to Jodhpur.He admitted his revolver was seized but denied as false all the exhibits produced by police and the connected investigation. He also denied the allegation that the licences for his weapons had expired at the time of the alleged crime.
 
 CJM Rajpurohit, who spoke in pure Hindi and later even joked with Shivade, telling him his Hindi must have improved in the last decade since the charges were framed in 2006, addressed the star: “You were seen by two people who said they saw you shoot the blackbuck.“ Salman Khan's answer was, “Galat“.The jeep was found with bloodstains and the hair of the blackbucks, the court asked.“False,“ said Salman Khan.“You went shooting at night?“ “False,“ said Salman.
 
 The actor finally said they would never leave their hotel after the shoot and that the case was based on false surmises and falsehoods based on a false report.
 
 The case rests largely on one main eyewitness,  , and the postmortem examination of exhumed blackbuck bones by a medical board of four doctors.There are 28 witness depositions but no ballistic report.
 
 Shivade, in one of his cross examinations, got a doctor to admit the bullet was never found, nor was a bullet exit wound.
 
 Salman Khan left after his statements had been recorded within an hour. His sister, Alvira, was present too. He left for Mumbai by 3 pm on a chartered aircraft, the same way he had arrived in Jodhpur.
 
 Saif Ali Khan, dressed in a white khadi kurta-pyjama and cream jacket, too answered the rapid-fire rounds quietly . He denied most questions but, unlike Salman, replied with the word “jhoot (a lie)“, as did the three actresses.
 
 Saif Ali Khan also denied that witness had heard them yelling “Salman, fire karo“ while in a white Gypsy in the intervening night of October1-2, 1998. Neelam, after Saif, denied all incriminating evidence and exhibits, as did Tabu and then Sonali Bendre. The three actresses, asked if they had been shooting for Suraj Barjatiya's film at the time, replied in the positive. As heroines? They said, “Yes.“ Their counsel, Shivade, waited for all three and they left together at around 1.45 pm, their eyes hidden by sunglasses, Neelam in jeans, Sonali and Tabu in salwar-kameez with dupattas.
 
