JAIPUR: Policemen seldom celebrate festivals with family; however it was a different day on Monday for 86 assistant   (ASIs) who were promoted as sub-inspectors. Emotions poured out when names of these sub-inspectors were announced in the piping ceremony as for the first time their families were also been invited at the function.

 In a usual course whenever lower constabulary in police gets promotion they just get a letter and no celebration is attached with it, however Jaipur police commissioner, Sanjay Agarwal in order to give them a moral boating and confidence started this initiative of organising a ceremony for these ASIs promoted as Sis with their family.
 
 54-year-old Hukum Singh who too was among those promoted as SI from the post of ASI was seen with his wife Amarjeet Kaur and son Amrinder Kaur. "I am deeply motivated with this gesture of my seniors. My son and wife are accompanying me and can acknowledge the hard work I went through to get this promotion. It is a satisfying moment for me," an elated Hukum Singh said.
 
 Likewise, there was 53-year-old Karan Singh who was happy as his two grandsons Udbhav Pratap Singh(3) and Bhanwar Virendra Rathore(2) were also present while their grandfather was getting promotion.
 
 "I hardly get time to see them together. I must thank my seniors for giving my family a platform where they are with me to share this success," Singh said.
 
 Vikas Pathak, deputy commissioner of police (Crime), on the initiative, said, "Policemen work in very tough conditions. I think such things actually give them moral boosting enhances self-esteem. Similar programmes would be organised in future too. Such things are actually needed to keep the spirits up."
 
 While names of many other ASIs were announced their family members had tears of joy. "I am thankful to the senior officers for giving my husband and us this opportunity. I hope my husband continues to get such success and work with utter sincerity and dedication, said Sarita Sharma whose husband Chandra Mohan Sharma also got promotion. 
 
