

 
 
 Well, I’m from a military family. I’ve grown up in the cantonment. I always knew I’d write something about the armed forces, but it took me a while to do my homework. I’d done so many girly books, and felt like a serious change in gear. And in all my books, I put in some kind of conflict, some kind of an ideology whether it’s ‘proper journalism versus government propaganda’ or superstition versus ability, whatever it is. Here I felt the conflict is very much this.
 
 There are two ways of looking at this whole thing. Books don’t talk about it, movies don’t talk about it, except in this rah rah, hypernationalist way. Then there’s all the whataboutery — if anything happens, they drag some soldier into the debate. Like   died, and everybody cries, but what about this lieutenant who also died? I mean, what’s the connection?
 
 It’s also not nice to soldiers. Just because you want your cheap vicarious kicks, your little dose of machismo as you sit around doing nothing, you want to put some young lad’s life on the line. It’s irresponsible and ill-informed. I’m not saying we don’t need a strong army or that we should take bullshit on the border. But speak softly and carry a big stick, that’s a fine philosophy.
 
 These days, only one narrative about soldiers is allowed. Look at when Vikram Batra’s mother spoke up a few years ago — if she doesn’t stick to the script she’s not a martyr’s mother any more, she’s a traitor, or matlabi or money-crazy. Look at the whole OROP thing, people don’t really care about soldiers.
 
 I wanted to show both sides. I finished the book in November, and the Gurmehar Kaur issue happened after that. She’s a shaheed’s daughter, a pacifist in a women’s college, so it was uncanny (the resemblance to the book’s heroine), but then again, I suppose there are recurring, classic conversations we have between a pacifist and someone who thinks ‘bhoon do’ (kill them).
  
  
 Oh yes, there was a lot of research. I drank so much whiskey paani with so many fighters, some young guys, some old gentlemen. And they’re so peppy, they describe everything so visually and so excitedly. The air force seeks out people like that — that hyper-alert, cool, cockpit mentality. They’re boys with toys, but they’re also unflappable and mature in a way.
  
  
 Nothing negative so far. The only thing the air force guys objected to was the F16s in the cover typeface. Next edition I promised we’ll have MIG-21s — even though they look like hypodermic syringes. That outrage stuff happens only if it’s a movie or something high profile, with big money involved. We’re just writers in English, who cares?
 
  
 Take this novel. Now, if a soldier dies, we should think about who he really was. I just wanted to make that real. He wasn’t just some hot guy in navy blue. He had best friends, a girlfriend, a family. You see the enormous tragedy of one child dying, you have to appreciate his life, and then see the sacrifice. He’s not just some cutout. Otherwise you’re just fetishising him. Objectifying him. Though that’s okay too, Tinka in the novel objectifies him all the time, I’m all for that. But still.
 
 
 No, we all just have these people in our lives, it’s not a vacuum. You’ll be busy falling in love, and there’ll be your aunt who says “Mother Dairy se doodh lao”. All the prosaic ordinary things, it all adds to the deliciousness of the romance. There’s the happy gas of the romance as well as smells from the bathroom. That’s how it is in real life, you know.
 
 
 I don’t think I’m great with new languages, but I have an ear for slang. And my kids keep me with it. I do have some habits I need to kick, though. Like, people are always going very still in my books. I’m so alarmed when people say they read all my books in one go, I feel, bas, now I’m exposed.
 
