MUMBAI: A week after   shifted 60 bureaucrats, fresh changes are on the cards at the   following the   and  .

 If Fadnavis agrees, highprofile Mumbai municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta will move to New Delhi as secretary in the Union government. Along with Mehta, Ajay Bhushan Pandey , Malini Shankar, Sanjay Bhatia and Bhagwan Sahai too have been empanelled. Pandey , Malini Shankar and Bhatia are already on central deputation. Pandey heads the Unique Identification Authority of India, Malini Shankar is director general, shipping, while Bhatia is chairman of Mumbai Port Trust. Their posts may be upgraded to the rank of secretary in the Union government or they may be given new assignments.
 
 Asenior bureaucrat said since Mehta has been empanelled, it will be for the CM to take a decision on whether to relieve him. If Mehta is relieved, he may take up assignment either with the ministry of telecommunications or power as secretary. “In view of his outstanding performance, the CM may not relieve him from the BMC, where he has completed just two years,“ he said.
 
 For bureaucrats, getting empanelled is a difficult task in view of the stringent procedure adopted by the NDA government. Out of 100-odd IAS officers of the 1984 batch, only 17 were empanelled. “Our information is that the confidential records of 32 years were scrutinised before empanelling the bureaucrats. It was a stringent exercise, since the PMO was keen on the best of officers,“ he said.
 
 If Mehta goes to New Delhi, more than half-a-dozen   would be in the race for the BMC chief 's post. MMRDA commissioner U P S Madan, who has completed five years and is due for transfer, is in the zone of consideration. Further, the CM will have to fill up the post of chief protocol officer, lying vacant following the appointment of Sumit Mallick as chief secretary, and Mhada vice-chairman and managing director following the retirement of S S Zende. Mumbai and Raigad collectors' posts too are lying vacant following the transfer of Mumbai collector Ashwini Joshi and Raigad collector Sheetal Ugale.
 
 The bureaucrat said following the dismal performance of BMC in the Swachch Sarvekshan competition, Fadnavis may revamp the BMC bureaucracy .
 
