Matthew  , former Australian open er, has a long standing relationship with Chennai. In fact, one of his career highs -scoring his first double hundred -was in Chennai. He was also a star player for the  . And he agrees that the city is really close to his heart. “It's a great honour to be back here in Chennai, my hometown in India,“ he says with a smile during a press interaction as part of the upcoming Tamil Nadu Premier League. He adds, “I first came here way back in 1996, as a young man to build a career in cricket and I realised that this place would be an ideal place for it because of its people's passion and affection for cricket. Then came the incredible match I played against India in 2001 at Chepauk, during which I scored 203 runs. I am sure that match will be remembered for a very long time.

 Now, as I am associated with this league, I am also exploring other parts of Tamil Nadu as well, like Tirunelveli, Madurai, etc. I've even ventured into some of the coastal areas like  , where I enjoyed eating fish and walking around on the beaches there. But most importantly, I am excited about the second season of the league and looking forward to see more number of cricketing talents coming up from the state.“
 
 Hayden also seems to be smitten by namma ooru veshti, and every time he comes down here, he wears it. Two days ago, when he visited Madurai as part of the league's promotions, he played cricket for a while with the local boys, wearing veshti! Ask him why he likes the veshti so much and pat comes his the veshti so much and pat comes his reply. “Oh, that's pretty simple! Veshti is very comfortable, light and cool,“ he laughs.
 
 Talking about many youngsters being able to take up cricket as profession now, Hayden says, “Cricket is such a beautiful game that doesn't discriminate, because it recognises talent. If you're talented, then it's only a matter of getting visibility to help one make it a profession. But before all that, what's most important is to have fun in what ever you do and develop a passion for it. That's exactly what I told the kids I met in Madurai two days ago. I grew up on a farm and within the plot of our house, we had a wicket where I would play cricket with my elder brother. When I played back then, the only ayed back then, the only thing I had in mind was to attack every ball he would bowl and hit them as far as I could. them as far as I could. That's how every thing started.“
 
 So, what does he think about the impact of T20s on game?
 other formats of the “I think it has become more of an offensive game. Also, I wouldn't disagree with the fact that because of the impact of T20s, a 300-plus score in ODIs isn't considered a big score now and hardly any Test matches are seen drawn these days. But we should realise that one format doesn't cannibalise another. In fact, the evolution of T20s has brought in a lot of acceptance for cricket among people. I see that change with the Women's Big Bash League in  .Because of that, I see a lot of young girls picking up bats with as much interest as the boys. So, each of these formats cross-promote the other,“ he sums up. 
 
