JAIPUR: The state government has so far not considered categorization of the   ( ) to accommodate Special Backward Classes’ (SBC) demand for 5% separate quota, social justice and empowerment minister Arun Chaturvedi said on Thursday.

 With parliament’s monsoon session beginning next week, the state government has little time left to find a legal remedy for the SBC quota, which has been struck down thrice by the Rajasthan high court. During the monsoon session, a bill granting constitutional status to   (NCBC) is to be passed.
 
 A constitutional status to NCBC would not only take away state governments’ powers to add or remove communities to the ‘Backward Classes’ (BC) list for quota purposes but would also end the possibility of creating any group, like the SBC, outside the OBC category. This means, the quota demand of SBC communities, which includes the  , will have to be accommodated within the OBC category only. The OBC communities, especially the Jats, are, however, strongly opposed to any categorization within their quota category.
 
 “We are studying various court rulings to meet the SBC quota demand within a legal framework. In special cases, like the most backward communities, the Supreme Court has permitted total reservation to go beyond 50%,” Chaturvedi said, while speaking to TOI.
 
  spokesperson Himmat Singh said, “This time will not accept any proposal that takes total reservation in the state beyond the 50% cap set by the Supreme Court. We want separate quota within the 50% limit.”
 
 There were reports that the SK Garg committee has recommended to the state government to categorize the OBC into two groups after raising its quota from 21% to 26% while accommodating the SBC’s separate quota demand. The Rajasthan Jat Mahasabha president Raja Ram Meel, however, said his community will not allow categorization within OBC. “The government can add backward communities to the OBC group but we will not allow it to categorize our quota into separate groups,” said Meel.
 
