NAGPUR: With the code of conduct for municipal elections coming into effect any time, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) standing committee is on a spree to conduct meetings and even cleared works worth Rs603.86 crore in the last 12 days.

 Earlier, the standing committee led by Sudhir Raut used to hold meetings once in 15 days or a month. It is a known fact at the NMC that works are approved and executed at slow pace. But a series of meetings have started at the civic body all of a sudden.
 
 As per the NMC’s data, the standing committee had organized six meetings between December 26 and January 6. As many as 88 proposals were cleared in the meetings. Two meetings were organized in a day on December 27, a first-of-its kind activity in the last five years.
 
 The works worth Rs603.86 crore included two big projects: the work order of waste to energy project to consortium of   and   and LED streetlights to eight private companies.
 
 The latest meeting held on January 6 was for 12 proposals. More works worth Rs123.52 crore would have been approved if the code of conduct for teachers’ constituency election had not come into effect. The standing committee cleared only three proposals and kept the remaining on hold.
 
 Raut told TOI that meetings were organized in a regular manner as tabled by the administration. “Chief minister   had approved funds for wards in South-West constituency recently. Therefore, proposals are coming in large numbers. Also, it will be beneficial for the citizens and city if all possible proposals are cleared,” he said.
 
 Leader of opposition in the NMC Vikas Thakre alleged that the meetings and works are just election gimmick. “Several proposals related to basic amenities are pending since a year. The NMC does not have funds to execute the approved works. All the works cleared in a hush will only result as liability for the NMC. It is nothing less than misguiding the citizens,” he said.
 
 The Raut-led committee has cleared 904 proposals in the last ten months.
 
 Even citizens of a few areas said works like asphalting of roads, laying sewage pipelines, construction of retaining walls and cement concrete roads among others are executed in large numbers with elections lurking.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke, who used to hold meetings of general body once in a month, organized two meets on December 1 and 31. As many as 18 proposals were cleared in the meeting on December 1 and 19 on December 31.
 
 
