 made India proud by winning a silver medal in badminton at the Rio Olympics last year, but how many know, a 26-year-old Malayali also made inroads into the World Badminton circuit at the same venue?

 Jacob Maliekal, who has his roots in Pala, represented South Africa, where he is the numero uno male singles badminton player! The Olympian, who was recently in Kerala, spoke to Kochi Times about his love for the game, Kerala connection, Olympic experience and more.
 A beaming Jacob shows his stylish tattoo on the upper arm and says, “It’s an Olympian tradition. I had decided that I will get it done if I qualify for Olympics, and tattooed the rings once I returned from Rio. It was my first Olympics and one of the most wonderful experiences ever. Sharing space with world class athletes, eating together, walking side by side… It was out of the world.”
 
 The player says that the whole setting made him a bit nervous, making him lose one of the two matches in the group game. However, he accomplished a first at the Olympics. “When I beat the Ukranian player Artem Pochtarev, it was the first time for a South African badminton player to win at the Olympics. However, the match I lost to South Korea’s highly seeded player Son Wan Ho ended my innings at Rio.”
 
 The youngster was at the Olympic gallery with his parents when India’s P V Sindhu played Carolina Marin in the women singles finals. Though he represents South Africa, Jacob says he felt proud to see an Indian at the finals. “I definitely felt happy for her. And it’s great to see Indian badminton booming with a lot of quality players who are beating big names. The coaches too are top class. I am also friends with many of the Indian players like Sameer Verma, Abhishek Yelegar and Joshi brothers (Pratul and Aditya Joshi), to name a few.”
 
 Interestingly, both his parents — Antony Maliekal and Annie Periappuram — used to play badminton while in Kerala. “They used to play in South Africa too and my dad has founded a club in East London town, where we live. It isn’t like a highly competitive club, we just play for fun on weekends. As a kid, I hardly took it seriously as cricket, football and rugby are the favourite sports of South Africa. When I was 15, the province we belong to needed some extra players for the national badminton championship. I went to play, I did well and beat some players in the top rung.”
 That win boosted his confidence, and a few people also advised Jacob to train a bit and see how it goes. In no time, the teenager got better and he made it to the national junior team within a year. In another two years’ time, he was in the national senior team too. “After school, I continued my training overseas. First, I was in Malaysia and now I am in China.”
 
 Jacob, who mostly spends his time away from family in China for training, says that he hardly gets time to visit Kerala now. “It was three years ago that I came last, for the 100th birthday of my grandmother. We used to visit Kerala a lot more often when I was younger. However, I’m no alien to Malayalam or our culture. I can speak the language decently and Oh, I love the delicious Kerala food!” says Jacob. He adds, “I love all the beef, chicken, pork dishes made in Kerala so much that every time I visit my ancestral home, I go back a few kilograms heavier.”
 The player is now training hard for the big tournaments coming his way. “I am training and working hard aiming at the Commonwealth Games in Australia and Tokyo 2020 Olympics. I want to up my game and that’s the sole focus now,” Jacob signs off.
