PUNE: Riding on tax payments and year-end investments, overall digital transactions rose to a new high in March, compared to other post-demonetisation months.

 The rise was evident across all platforms, except point of sale (PoS) terminals (see graphic). As many as 6.2 million transactions were done through Bharat Unified Payments Interface or BHIM in March, registering a jump of 2 million over the months of January and February.
 
 “The growth in transaction volume and value across immediate payment systems and prepaid instruments like digital wallets could very well have been due to the tax payments and year-end investments by the salaried class,“ experts said.
 
 They added that transactions at point of sale (PoS) terminals or swipe machine registered a fall compared to the previous months becau se of the transaction charges.
 
 RBI data shows that there are over 83 crore debit cards (about 22 crore are   cards) and about 3 crore credit cards with people.
 
 Since bulk of these 22 crore Rupay cards are in rural areas, the infrastructure there is inadequate to facilitate digital transactions. The government's ambitious mission to install 2 PoS termi nals in 1lakh villages is yet to take off in any meaningful manner.
 
 A senior banker said the growth in digital payments could also be a function of “unwritten decision“ of the government to release less cash into the system.
 
 As per the latest RBI figures, compared to March 2016, about 78% of cash (notes) were in circulation on March 24, 2017. Compared with November 8, 2016 (demonetisation) figures, notes in circulation were 73% as on March 24, 2017.
 
 To grow and sustain digi tal payments, experts said, digital PoS penetration could play a greater role as will lead to incentivisation of customers.
 
 “There are still a lot of initiatives underway from the government, policy makers and regulators. From our meetings, we gather that the foot is still firmly on the pedal,“ Vivek Belgavi, Partner,   FinTech and Technology Consulting Leader,  , said.
 
