BHAGALPUR: Four persons died and over two dozens were injured when high tension electric wires snapped and fell on Muharram processions after coming in contact with tazias in two villages of Bhagalpur district on Sunday evening.
 
  Two persons were electrocuted and several others were injured at   area under Lodipur police station of Bhagalpur sub-division when a high voltage wire fell on the tazia. Two more deaths occurred in   village under Bihpur police station of Naugachia sub-division (Naugachia police district) when a towering tazia came into contact with a live wire.
  
  Police said the deceased have been identified as Md Anzarul (35), and   (20), Md. Mahmood of Milki village (50), and Md Imtiaz (21) also from Milki.
  
  Several injured persons have been admitted to hospitals. Condition of some of the injured persons are stated to be serious, said sources adding the death toll may increase if the condition of some of the injured does not improve, said a police official.
  
  District magistrate Adesh Titarmere and   Manoj Kumar rushed to the spot and took control of the situation, whereas the sub-divisional officials at Naugachia controlled the panic-stricken members of the procession.
  
  The local residents alleged that the fault lies with the electricity department as there were orders to cut power supply during Muharram. Meanwhile, the DM also announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the family of the deceased. “The district administration would also bear the cost of treatment of those injured,” the DM said adding stringent action would be also taken against the electricity department officials and others responsible for the incident.
  
  The SSP said an FIR has been lodged in the incident. Three persons including the junior engineer (JE), operator and in charge of electricity supply grid has been arrested, said the SSP adding, “We are investigating the incident as to how power supply was restored when the procession was being taken out.”
  
  Naugachia SP Pankaj Sinha said that preliminary probe indicates negligence of electricity department officials. “The Naugachia SDO had clearly instructed to disconnect electric supply during the procession, but it is sad that instructions were not followed and that resulted in the mishap,” said the SP adding, “We are in the process of registering an FIR.”
  
  Meanwhile, police forces have been deployed in both the areas where the incidents took place to avert any untoward incident.
