NAGPUR: The internal administrative inquiry initiated by jail authorities after the murder of Ayush Pugaliya, who was serving a triple life sentence for kidnapping and murdering eight-year-old Kush Kataria, has already resulted in changes. Officials have proposed to replace all the galvanized iron and steel containers used to ferry food from kitchen to barracks in all state jails with plastic utensils.

 The jail authorities had always prohibited entry of almost all sharp and pointed objects which could be used as weapons. However, Ayush’s assailant Suraj Kotnake, who too was serving a life term, used a broken piece of the rim of a food container to slit Pugaliya’s throat. 
 
 Kotnake had also used a tile to hit Ayush on the head first, while the victim was squatting in the toilet. After Ayush passed out, Kotnake used the broken rim to kill him. Tiles, widely used as paving material, may not be easily replaced, but the metal containers would be phased out soon.
 
 DIG, Prisons, Eastern region, Yogesh Desai said proposals are being drawn up to ensure metal containers are not used, since some of their parts can prove to be lethal weapons, as in the present case. “The constant use of metal containers leads to wear and tear, and some parts can break or fall off, or be forcibly removed, to be used as sharp weapons. Plastic containers would be easy to ferry and also safer. We would replace them over a period,” said Desai. “Tiles generally come loose from the base over time, and also break. If such materials are used as weapons, then it is a very tricky situation,” he said.
 
 Desai said that the jail authorities take utmost precautions to ensure the sharp objects are not allowed in jail. “The blades and razors used by the inmates working as barbers in the jails are taken back from them by the personnel counting each one of them after the day’s work. Watch is also kept on to ensure that the inmates are not able to hide or keep any sharpened object under ground or any other place,” said the DIG. 
 
 Desai also claimed that manpower shortage is a major issue weakening security in the jail. “There is only 150 guards for around 2,400 inmates currently, while the Bureau of Police Research (BPRD) and development wing suggestion is to have one guard for every six inmates,” said the DIG. Desai said there are around 191 guards available while the requirement is for minimum 400. He said the   committee has already suggested working on directions by Justice Abhay Oka of Bombay High Court to increase manpower. “104 CCTV cameras have already been installed while another 250 are expected to be commissioned soon,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the post mortem of Pugaliya was completed at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday. The post mortem was performed by a team of experts from GMCH and the procedure was videographed. Pugaliya’s last rites were performed at   crematorium.
 
 The jail authorities said Kotnake has been separated and kept in a cell away from the others. The prison administration is waiting for a letter from the government to hand over Kotnake to the custody of Dhantoli police, which have registered the murder case against him. “Kotnake has never applied for parole or furlough. He has never availed the facility offered to prisoners to call up their families,” said a jail source. “Kotnake’s family has disowned him for allegedly murdering his wife and father-in-law,” said the source.
 
 
