THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The 39th edition of the   youth festival began on a sour note with the vice–chancellor and the pro vice-chancellor, who are also the patrons of the university, skipping the inaugural ceremony held at the Senate hall in the   on Monday

 PRO of the vice-chancellor said that the   had rejected the invitation as he was given the role of a felicitator in the event, which is a protocol violation. “It is clearly a case of   where the VC was invited to pay the felicitation at the inaugural event of the university   for which he is the patron. When the students approached him he had clearly conveyed his displeasure in adding his name among the felicitators,” said the PRO. The PRO also pointed out that the pro-vice chancellor had not been informed even for once about any of the programmes by the members of the organizing committee. “The VC was not informed even when the committee was formed. Being the patron of the Kerala University, he was supposed to have been given the role of the chairperson. We were surprised to see his name among the felicitators,” the PRO added.
 
 Meanwhile, the members of the organizing committee maintained that a friction with the vice-chancellor existed right from the beginning.
 
 “He had been very stubborn and was non-co-operative right from the start. The tensions began when he refused to give us the rightfully deserving fund for the youth festival. Out of the Rs 10 lakh union fund, which is allotted for the youth festival, he had given us only Rs 7.5 lakh. Later, he was agitated when we did not include members whom he favoured in the organizing committee. We had requested him to take part in the inaugural event several times and he refused mercilessly. Since, he was the vice-chancellor, we thought he should be mentioned somewhere in the brochure and added his name among the felicitators,” said Prathin saj Krishna, general convenor of the organizing committee.
 
 Members of the organizing committee also said they had approached the VC on Monday with a new brochure enlisting VC to convey the introductory speech and said that he denied the request. Meanwhile the youth festival began with Mohiniyattom at the main venue.
 
 
