Mumbai: Banks are being advised to go after defaulting companies’ promoter’s assets that are either hidden offshore or behind a corporate structure. 

 This will help them flex their muscles in their dealings with defaulters and bring them to the negotiating table.
 
 According to Reshmi Khurana, MD and head of South Asia,  ,   have fared relatively better in addressing   as they have the headroom to talk tough and take decisions on haircuts. Kroll is a global investigative agency that has helped multinational banks in asset searches and in other investigations.
 
 Despite newfound powers to drag   to the insolvency court and dissolve boards of these companies, resolving bad loans without promoter cooperation will be a challenge for banks, said Khurana. 
 
 At present, banks are busy dragging some of the large defaulters to the insolvency courts where they aim to dislodge the board and appoint insolvency professionals to resolve bad debts. The new insolvency law requires that once proceedings are initiated, a resolution plan needs to be drawn up within 270 days failing which the company would be liquidated. The challenge banks are facing is that borrowers are turning out to be extremely uncooperative by initiating legal suits to stymie the insolvency process. Also, with host of the defaulters being in categories with surplus capacity, liquidation would also prove to be a challenge.
 
 “What needs to be seen now is how the insolvency professionals deal with promoters. In the Indian context, promoters wield a lot influence over vendors and other channels. Without promoter’s support no business can be turned around,” said Khurana. 
 
 “What Indian banks need to do is to set an example with a few defaulters,” said Khurana. According to her promoters of defaulting companies are often able to hold on to their assets because they may not be held in their own name. “Banks can appoint investigators with an international reach to pierce the corporate veil globally, not just in India. They need to go after assets in investor friendly jurisdictions like the US and UK and then find ways to go after assets in offshore jurisdictions like British Virgin Islands, Bahamas, Cyprus,” said Khurana.
 
 
