NEW DELHI: When   lost his life in 2013 while cleaning a   at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, the government gave his family a compensation of Rs 2 lakh. Shortly after his death, his widow Laxmi and her then 10-year-old son Arjun left their home in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri and moved in with her recently married daughter in Badarpur. Three months ago, the daughter asked her if she could live elsewhere. The beleaguered woman now rents a small room and sells momos on a footpath. On Wednesday, caught up in getting the Aadhaar card made for Arjun for his school admission, she could not buy her daily requirements and so forewent the Rs 150-200 that she earns in a day.

 Laxmi also used to clean drains, but after her husband’s death, she could not muster the courage to continue. But while her life was turned upside down, at least she got some compensation. Unlike   in Jehangirpuri. She has been in litigating for compensation for several years. She lost her husband Vinod Sarma in similar fashion. Sarma was not even a cleaner, only a plumber. But the supervising PWD junior engineer compelled Sarma and another plumber to go into a sewer that had been closed for years. "The contractor paid me Rs 2,000 a month until my brother-in-law filed a case against him for negligence," said Savitri. 
 
 The widowed mother of three is in dire straits. She earns a bit through sewing and a bit more at Raksha Bandhan time. Not this year, though. "I would ordinarily be making rakhis at this time, but I have no raw material," said the despondent Savitri. "My contractor told me he is not getting supplies due to GST complications." 
 
 A member of  , an NGO advocating rehabilitation and rights of manual scavengers, admitted not only that the fight for compensation is a tedious affair but that the government actually does not care much. "Many of the women are never informed that they are entitled to widow pension. We have personally intervened to get them jobs or pensions because the government would happily forget their very existence," said the NGO member.
 
 Bijilesh Sharma, the only survivor from the accident in which Sarma lost his life, now works as a carpenter in a hospital near Savitri’s house. He says that none of those made to go into the sewer that day was competent for the job. None was given protective gear either. "It was a hot day and we were knocked out by the blast of gas that hit us when we entered," remembered Sharma. "I got stuck in the opening so I lived. The fire tender that came to rescue us was not equipped for this sort of emergency and the process got delayed. Because I survived, I received no compensation," he said. 
 
 Like Sarma, plumber Ramphal too lost his life in 2011 after allegedly being coerced into going down into a septic tank. He was electrocuted and died. 
 
 Hirawan Lal Kalakar’s right eye is white with cataract but it is difficult to miss the pain in them when he talks about his son. "Ramphal was hired from the labour chowk near Greater Kailash by a contractor’s son. Three hours later, I received a call saying my son had fainted. It was much later that we were told he had been electrocuted. The case for compensation is still going on," the old man says. He lives alone after his wife died in 2015 and his daughter-in-law left for her father’s house with two children, leaving the third child in the custody of Ramphal’s brother in Varanasi.
 
 
