LUCKNOW: As mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius, ‘UP32 Bulleteers’ of Lucknow, a group of young men on motorcycles has crossed five states and three national highways covering 7,000km to reach Kanyakumari to spread the message of   on behalf of  .

 The rally began from Lucknow, early morning on March 14 and navigating bumpy roads under the scorching sun, when the three men on bikes reached at night Seoni in Madhya Pradesh—803km away—Atul Mishra (48), a tattoo artist leading the team, Aditya Singh (26), a wedding planner and Rishabh Shankdhar (26), a saloon owner decided to stay back and enlighten the people there about road safety. According to Mishra, road and traffic management in MP was not up to the mark as youth were seen triple riding on bikes. The trio stopped at a petrol pump distributed pamphlets among the customers.
 
 They reached Hyderabad on March 15 and parked near a dhaba where they addressed a group of teenagers on sporty bikes, none of them wearing helmet. Aditya told them about Shubham Soti, the 17-year-old who was killed in a road accident in 2010. 
 
 Riding on bumpy roads and dragging a punctured bike on National Highway-44, even as a thunderstorm delayed their journey by a few hours, they reached Bengaluru on March 17, where they found traffic rules being followed duly.
 
 Crossing national highway and via Munnar’s hilly roads, the team reached Palakkad in Kerala on March 18, where they met a traffic officer busy issuing challans to those not wearing helmet and they began distributing their pamphlets there. Atul and Aditya suffered a heat stroke so the team spent the night there.
 
 On March 20, they reached Kanyakumari after a halt in Madurai and Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu. Next, they reached Dhanush Kodi, the southern most part of the country, having covered 3,000km. On the way back, they covered Kochi via Coimbatore crossing the hilly region, spreading the good word all along.
 
 They reached Mumbai via Belgaum and Pune. They spoke to youth performing stunts at the original Marine Drive in Mumbai and told them about high number of lives lost in road accidents every year. The team reached Lucknow on March 31 after covering, Indore and Jhansi. 
 
 “We are passionate bike riders and Atul taught us a lot about bikes,” said Aditya. “On the trip, there were many risks we faced but God helped us because we had a special message to save lives,”said Rishabh.
 
 “After I lost my son, I built the Shubham Soti foundation with the mission to save life of other children. I plan to start a traffic training classes,” said Ashutosh Soti.
 
