BENGALURU:   holds a slight edge in the   to be run over a distance of 2000m at the races here on Sunday. Professionals feel the colt, trained by   and to be ridden by P Trevor, has a good chance although, given the uncertainties of racing, others like Manifold, Shaman, Chief Of Command and Olympia Fields too are in the mix.

 What throws the field wide open in a race that offers a total prize money of Rs 2.67 crore is the fact that the contenders - nine colts and four fillies- have excelled in the lead-up to the Grade I race. Of the lot, Castlebridge - jointly owned by   and   - is rated 73, five points more than Manifold and six higher than Shaman and has a remarkable track record here over the last seven months. He has won three straight races in his five starts - including the Colts Championship Stakes (Gr 1) two weeks ago - claiming a whopping total stake money of Rs 90,26,669.
 
 "I don't believe in favourites, I hope Castlebridge delivers. When he entered the Colts Championship Stakes two weeks ago he was rated 15/1 at odds but he won it with a good time. Generally, the winners of the Colts Championship Stakes and Fillies Championship Stakes win the Derby, I just hope he continues his good form to win the Derby riches," said Bharat. 
 
 The biggest threat to Castlebridge is the Pesi Shroff-trained Manifold. The filly from Mumbai too has not put a foot wrong in her last four starts, winning two races including the Fillies Championship Stakes (June 18) and The   (March 1) besides finishing second in the The Forbes Breeders' Juvenile Fillies' Championship in March.
 
 Interestingly, Shroff's Set Alight was the last filly to win the Fillies Championship Stakes and the Derby in 2009. On Sunday the jockey-turned trainer will be aiming to emulate that feat with Manifold. Jockey  , who powered rank outsider Tororosso to Republic Day Derby win earlier this year, will have an edge over others having ridden Manifold in all her four races. 
 
 The Sulaiman Attaollahi-schooled Shaman, to be ridden by C Alford, is also capable of causing an upset. The colt, co-owned by Mallya and Kimmane, has registered three places including two straight victories in three starts and will look to raise his level by a few notches. "It's open race. It's going to be tough when you have in the fray the winners of the Colts and Fillies Trials. We did not run the Colts Championship because we already had two from the same owner. So we put him on ordinary races as we believed that it would boost his confidence," said Attaollahi. 
 
 Chief Of Command from R Foley's stables and Olympia Fields from  's yard are the other two horses capable of springing a surprise. Chief Of Command has won six straight races before finishing eighth in the Colts Championship. 
 
 
