KOLKATA: Domestic politics and Trinamool-BJP dynamics may be as much a part of the menu as the division of the Teesta’s waters when Bangladesh PM Sheikh   comes calling later this week.

 CM   on Wednesday indicated she will fly to New Delhi on April 7 to attend the banquet hosted by President Pranab Mukherjee on April 9 for the visiting Bangladeshi premier. Prime minister   and external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj are also exp-ected to attend the banquet.
 
 Banerjee refused to say much on the issue. She told a close aide: “It’s a matter between the two countries”.
 
 Lest her travel be construed as an ice-breaker given her strong opposition to a   water-sharing pact without consulting her government, the CM said in Bankura: “What will I do if there’s no water? There’s no water in the Teesta now. Mukutmanipur has dried up... Mahananda has dried up. This is just April. May and June are ahead. By the time the rains come, it will be July. These three months... there are water woes ahead.” Mamata, who is scheduled to leave the capital on April 11, is also likely to meet PM Narendra Modi though it is not clear whether there will be any one-on-one between the two. However, many of the bilateral issues with Bangladesh involves Bengal and hence it is important for the Centre to keep   in the loop. 
 
 Sushma Swaraj, who enjoys a personal rapport with the Bengal CM, not only wrote to her but also called up Mamata to invite her to be present when the two PMs inaugurate the Radhikapur (North Dinajpur)-Biral freight train service on April 8. The inauguration of the Kolkata-Khulna bus service is also on the cards.
 
 Swaraj, in her letter, also thanked the CM for her role in bettering India-Bangladesh ties. “We are grateful for the manner in which the West Bengal government and chief minister Mamata Banerjee personally, has played a role repeatedly to maintain good relations with Bangladesh,” she wrote.
 
 The letter followed after Trinamool MP   informed the Lok Sabha about the Bengal CM’s stand on Teesta. Roy had quoted Mamata to say that the CM would not put the seal of approval on any treaty without knowing the details. “Why is the Centre bypassing the state government? I strongly protest against this attitude of the Centre of going behind the back of the state government for an international agreement. We strongly protest any attempt to sign the Teesta treaty without the consent of the West Bengal government,” Roy had quoted Mamata.
 
 The Bangladesh media has cited unnamed sources to hint that the President’s invite to Mamata for the banquet was also to facilitate a face-to-face discussion between the Bangladesh PM and the Bengal CM in his presence. The reports have also hinted that prior to the banquet, Mamata may call on Hasina at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mamata enjoys a very warm relationship with the Bangladesh premier.
 
 The chief minister has indicated that she isn’t averse to discussions on the proposed Teesta treaty. Her opposition, she stressed, was that Bengal – the only federal stakeholder -- should be included in the discussions. No visible progress has been made in the Teesta agreement since it was stalled in September 2011.
 
 Dhaka has long been pursuing a comprehensive water-sharing agreement with India. Under it, there will be a modality of water sharing, river management and other water-related issues of all the 54 common rivers flowing from India to Bangladesh.
 
