NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday introduced a Bill in Lok Sabha, seeking to set up a single permanent tribunal to resolve inter-state   expeditiously. 

 Instead of having multiple tribunals, the Bill - introduced by the water resources minister   despite opposition from the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) - makes a provision of a single permanent tribunal with multiple benches. Unlike the Tribunal, the benches will cease to exist once the disputes are resolved.
 
 Once the proposed legislation is enacted, the single permanent tribunal - known as   Tribunal - will subsume all the existing tribunals including those on Cauvery, Mahadayi/ Mandovi, Krishna, Vansadhara and Ravi and Beas rivers.
 
 The Bill, in fact, proposes to introduce a mechanism to resolve the water dispute amicably by negotiations through a 'Dispute Resolution Committee' (DRC) before such dispute is referred to the Tribunal. The Committee will be set up by the central government consisting of experts from relevant fields.
  
 In case of any dispute, the Centre will first set up DRC. The Committee will try to resolve the water dispute through negotiations within a period of one year which may extended to a period of six months. The water dispute will be referred to the Tribunal if it is not settled by negotiations. 
 
 "The Inter-State River Water Disputes (Amendment) Bill, 2017 seeks to streamline the adjudication of inter-state river water disputes and make the present legal and institutional architecture robust", said Bharti while introducing the Bill 
 
 Introduction of the Bill was opposed by the BJD member   who wanted the government to have a re-look at the proposed legislation arguing that it was drafted in a poor manner. 
 
 "I am not going into the merit of the Bill. It's a very badly drafted Bill. Since water is a state subject, I would also ask the government whether it has consulted all the 29 states before drafting it", said Mahtab while opposing the Bill in its present form.
 
 Bharti, however, said the Centre was very much within its rights to introduce such Bill under Article 262 of the Constitution and assured the House that the proposed legislation was needed to resolve any dispute expeditiously.
 
 The Bill fixes total time period for adjudication of a water dispute at a maximum of four and half years. The decision of the Bench of the Tribunal will be final and binding on the states concerned, with no requirement of its publication in the official gazette - it means the decision of the Tribunal will automatically be notified the moment it is delivered. 
 
 The Tribunal will consist of a chairperson (retired judge of a Supreme Court or High Court), one vice-chairperson and maximum six members. While the term of office of the chairperson is five years or till he or she attains the age of 70 years (whichever is earlier), the term of office of vice-chairperson and other members of the Tribunal will be co-terminus with the adjudication of the water disputes.
 
 The Bill also seeks to provide for transparent data collection system at the national level for each river basin and for this purpose, an agency to maintain databank and information system will be appointed by the central government.
 
 "Transparent data collection system will help in resolving any dispute. Once we have such a system in place, the states will have enough information to take a call while relying on scientifically collected data", said an official.
 
