PATNA: Patnaities are big on handmade   this Rakshabandhan.

 Shalini Kishraj, owner of a craft boutique in New Patliputra Colony, said she and her helpers had started preparing for Rakshabandhan in March itself. She receives enquiries from all over India for her handmade rakhis and has couriered them abroad as well. 
 
 “I have had requests from Thailand, the US and the UAE on my WhatsApp group. Rakhi made out of ‘gota-patti’ and tiny pom-pom are all the rage right now. Lumbas are also doing quite well this Rakshabandhan. People are opting for ‘kundan’ rakhi and lumba sets for brother and sister-in-law, respectively. Traditional rakhis are in vogue where Jaipuri work has made a comeback. Friendship bands and bracelet rakhis are loved by teenagers and young adults,” she said. 
 
 Kids’ rakhis are usually in the shape of a cartoon character, Shalini said and added that they had rakhis with guns last year, but this year rakhis have sharpeners and erasers. The cost of these personalized rakhis, she says, ranges between Rs10 and Rs650, depending on the work and design. 
 
 A handmade craft store near the Indira Gandhi Planetarium has a variety of hand-crafted rakhis ranging between Rs10 and Rs150. As per Dolly, who was manning the store, personalization is the key that is drawing customers to the handcrafted rakhis this season. Rakhis and lumbas are available with zari, pearl, meena and stone work along with hand embroidery. “Paper quill rakhis are also well received by the people. Children rakhis include teddy bears and cartoons patterns,” she said. 
 
 The age-old tradition of Rakshabandhan, strengthening the deep bond that a brother and sister share, has got a new lease of life through the internet era. Sisters across the city are also buying personalized rakhis online where they say they have a number of options and would not have to go out to courier the rakhi. “I am busy preparing for CAT. So, I thought it would be a good idea to buy rakhis online for my two brothers who live in Delhi and Agra. I especially love that the site sells personalized rakhis as I could send each brother a unique rakhi. I plan to courier some chocolate later on!” says Mridula Kumari of Nehru Nagar. 
 
 
