SRINAGAR: Former Scotland and Glasgow Rangers player   has been appointed as the coach of the   (RKFC), which will be the second team from Kashmir to play in the  .

 "We are pleased to announce Robertson as the head coach cum manager of the Real Kashmir Football Club. We have made a history of sorts by becoming the first club in Kashmir to bring in a coach from Europe," an official of the club told PTI.
 
 Robertson, who helped Glasgow Rangers win nine consecutive Scottish League titles during his playing days in 1990s, will begin his stint in   second division side in a local derby against LoneStar Kashmir FC.
 
 The Real Kashmir FC, which is only the second team from Kashmir to enter the I-League second division, will make its debut against LoneStar here on January 21.
 
 The return leg will be played next month, the official said.
 
 The club official, however, did not reveal the details of the high profile signing including the amount of money involved in brining in the former Scottish international to the club.
 
 Robertson, who is a UEFA Pro License coach, had had a glittering career at club level, having represented Aberdeen in Scottish League and and   in English Premier League side on either side of his stint with Rangers.
 
 "Robertson is a thorough professional. He arrived here today afternoon and straightaway met the senior squad of the club. He also held a detailed meeting with his coaching staff wherein he was given a briefing about the clubs squad, strength and weaknesses," the official said.
 
 Real Kashmir FC, who are aiming to make a mark in the debut season, are hopeful that Robertson's experience will give the team an edge over the rest of the field.
 
 "We have hired David to give us a cutting edge in the upcoming I-League second division. LoneStar FC have already set the standard pretty high in the I-League second division. We have to match it. With his experience in playing and coaching arena I'm sure we will surpass our own expectations," he said.
 
 Asked about the choice of a European coach, the club official said it reflected their seriousness about staying in for a long haul.
 
 "This is just the beginning. Real Kashmir FC was started with East Bengal and   in mind. We want RKFC to be the East Bengal of the North," he said.
 
