KOLHAPUR: The sales tax department is soon going to start a registration drive for traders and industrialists in the city for effective implementation of the Goods and   (GST).

 The state government has called for a special session to ratify the GST bill which has already been passed by the central government. The new tax regime will include 16 types of indirect taxes currently under force.
 
 The implementation will be effective from July 1 and the sales tax department has asked to start the registration of the traders and industrial units in the city. Earlier, the sales tax department had cancelled the registration of over 10,000 traders in the district.
 
 Additional commissioner of sales tax Vilas Indulkar said, “We are going to be start with the registration of all the indirect tax payers. A separate cell has been appointed at the sales tax bhavan where proper guidance to all the stakeholders will be given.”
 
 “After July 1, only three taxes will remain such as  , GST and Customs Duty. We are facing some technical glitch at the moment which will be resolved soon,” he added.
 
  was speaking at a workshop organised by the apex body of traders and industrialists in association with the   on Friday. Representatives of over 100 associations attended the workshop.
 
 “The new tax regime will be heavily depending on the modern technology for tax assessment, calculation and recovery. The central government has fixed the tax slabs, however it is yet to decide on which item to fit in which tax slab. In last few months, over 50% of the indirect tax payers such as Value Added Tax (VAT) and Local Body Tax (LBT) have uploaded their documents on the central government's website,” Indalkar said.
 
 Registration of 88% of the tax payers have been completed claims Indalkar. “ There are over 70,000 tax payers in five districts. We have cancelled the registration for those not operating their businesses right now. At present, we have cancelled the registration of 10,000 indirect tax payers. Around 300 have applied to restore their registration for which on-site inspection will be done soon,” he added.
 
 Officer of the excise department C V   said, “GST is a simple tax regime which is in the interest of the tax payers. The tax will be calculated on the actual price of the product.”
 
