NAGPUR: “Children are the biggest change makers in any society. That is why there are called the future. Hence children and adolescents should be groomed very appropriately, with a lot of sensitivity while maintaining utmost faith in them. We need to ensure all the Dos and Don’ts for them until they are adults without them feeling their behaviour is being controlled or monitored. This should be done in a manner that they are neither overburdened, not left to themselves,” said Dr Nilofer Mujawar here on Friday.

 Dr Mujawar would be taking over as the new president of the   (IAP) team on Sunday at 10am. Dr Rishi Lodaya is the new IAP secretary. IAP national president Dr  , president elect of central IAP 2017, will be the chief guest for the installation in presence of Dr  , senior paediatrician and international president of COMHAD-UK. Dr Soans would also deliver the Dr P R Dange oration on clinical challenges in   (PICU).
 
 Dr Mujawar told TOI since this year’s theme by the academy was ‘stop child abuse’ she would ensure this message reached every section of society including children in all possible ways. “There are many Dos and Don’ts for parents as well as society. I would try to ensure this year IAP works in tandem with not just schools and colleges but with society as a whole. We need to tell parents to stop living their dreams through their children. As much we need to let the children be at their best without any emotional and physical stress. Also children and adolescents need to be told to say no to ‘peers’ when needed,” she said.
 
 The incoming IAP president said the doctors needed to understand the new amendments in the Juvenile Justice Act in which children between the ages of 16-18 will be treated as adults if they engaged in certain heinous crimes and also Pocso Act. “Doctors can be of help in legal cases only if they themselves understand the law. So we need to work together with psychologists, counsellors and lawyers,” said Dr Mujawar.
 
 IAP would continue all routine activities like CMEs, village camps, conferences etc. “It is matter of pride as well as responsibility that the annual national conference of IAP will be held at Nagpur in January 2018,” said Dr Lodaya. He said though girls issues are talked about, boys were equally at risk for both physical and sexual abuse. Life skill education and teaching modules would be developed by IAP on all such subjects to reach children and parents, he added.
 
 The new team also includes Dr Anju Kadam and Dr   as vice-presidents, Dr Girsh Charde as treasurer, Dr Ashish Lothe and Dr Ashish Vaidya as joint secretaries. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh has been selected as an executive member of IAP national body.
 
