Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s order last week for strong action against  , the diktat is yet to trickle down to state level. Following the  , communities in Maharashtra, such as the Qureshis and the Gawalis whose primary and traditional livelihoods depend on buffalo milk and meat, continue to find themselves at the mercy of gau rakshaks and subsequent court cases, so much so, that many of them have been forced to quit the business altogether. In fact, a statewide survey found that out of around 16 lakh people in the business, almost 11 lakh are out of work after the ban.

 For instance, Shafat Qureshi, a butcher by profession, has now become a vegetable vendor in Camp. He had spent almost Rs 4 lakh modifying a truck to transport animals. The vehicle was air-conditioned with facilities of fodder and water for the cattle. Shafat would travel to various markets, buy buffaloes and sell their meat. But after the beef ban, in September 2016, his truck was stopped by gau rakshaks, first at Saswad and then in Kondhwa and the animals he was transporting were sent to a shelter following a police case. Shafat had all the necessary documents and permits. He filed a case in court and received an order for all 34 buffaloes to be returned to him. But, when he visited the shelter, they refused to give him custody of the animals.
 
 In the meantime, the gau rakshaks appealed against the court order. This case has now reached the Bombay High Court (HC) and a judgment is awaited.
 
 But Shafat could not afford to wait. Already reeling from losses incurred, he simply decided to quit the business. “Right now, there are three cases going on. One at Saswad, where gau rakshaks had taken the animals in a similar manner; the second at the sessions court and a third in the HC. I have to keep doing rounds of these courts throughout the week. Also, now that the gau rakshaks have identified my vehicle, I have stopped taking it out. I cannot risk letting the animals go and suffer losses every time. I have stopped the business and have started selling vegetables on the streets of Camp,” said Shafat, looking despondently at the condition of his truck which has stopped working as he couldn’t afford to change the batteries and parts.
 
 “I had taken a loan to modify the vehicle. I don’t know how I will repay it. I cannot even use the truck on which I spent the money,” he added.
 
 Shafat’s case is just one of many. Most of the Qureshi community are now sitting idle, fearing that going back to work will only mean losses and even violence.
 
 Sitting outside the Qureshi Masjid, Haji Abdul Sattar Qureshi recalled how it all began, claiming he was the first victim of cow vigilantism in the city as far back as 2001.
 
 “I was transporting a few cows when I was beaten up badly. When I went to the police station, a non-cognisable offence was registered. We did not understand the legal aspects much but I definitely recall that the assailants left just because they assumed I was dead. Let alone getting back our animals, even our assault case was not registered. I could not go back to the business after that. And, it’s only gotten worse,” he said.
 
 Like an insidious disease, fear has crept into the community. It doesn’t matter anymore whether they are caught transporting cattle — their identity is enough to make them targets.
 
 “I used to go to various markets in Pune district to buy cows or buffaloes which were of no use to farmers or milkmen. After the beef ban came into being, we stopped buying and selling them. But, the threats did not stop. I had gone to Yewat and some locals came up to me and asked me to pay them whatever money I had. They threatened to inform the gau rakshaks if I did not comply. I was scared and simply decided to quit the business. My sons now work as daily labourer — we barely make ends meet,” said Mehboob Qureshi.
 
 Sadiq Qureshi, member of the state Beef Dealers’ Association, which conducted the survey, said, “We found out that almost 11 lakh people out of the 15 to 16 lakh who were in the business lost their jobs. Out of them, almost 40,000 were from our community in Pune and nearly 80 per cent chose to close down their business. Apart from the losses, we also have to spend on the court cases. And, we have observed that people from the shelters ask us to repay them for taking care of the animals. The amount is usually far more than many of us can afford. It’s easier to buy new bullocks or buffaloes instead.”
 
 Interestingly, whenever a court orders a shelter to return the cattle, the gau rakshaks challenge it in a higher court and the case is filed using the name of the shelter.
 
 For example in a recent case, 26 animals were let off by a lower court and their custody was granted to businessman Abdul Rahim Bepari, who owned the animals. This order was challenged by   under the name of Pune Panjarpol trust before the sessions court.
 
 The district court has now reversed the lower court’s order.
 
 Omprakash Ranka of the Pune Panjarpol Trust justified this, saying that gau rakshaks are constantly risking their own lives to rescue the animals in distress. “They spend money from their own pockets for legal proceedings. We simply take care of the animals brought by them. If they use our name while filing court proceedings, it is because the animals are kept in our shelter,” he said.
 
 The vigilantes themselves seem entirely convinced that their cause is for the greater good.
 
 Milind Ekbote, president of the Gauraksha Abhiyan, even claimed that the Qureshi community people are wealthy enough and will not suffer. “We cannot stand by and let injustice happen. Hence, we approach the higher court. We barely have any money ourselves. It is only because some lawyers volunteer for us that we can contest these cases,” he said.
 
 Unable to pursue their work and living in a constant state of fear, the victimised communities are now looking to the state government for help. Minister of home affairs Ranjit Patil said, “We have already started taking strict action against those taking the law into their own hands. We have instructed police officials to take a strong stand on cow vigilantism. Gau rakshaks have no right to conduct raids by themselves. If they find anything illegal, they must inform the police. We are also considering the number of incidents that have occurred and we may take a policy-level decision if the menace increases.”
 
 At present, these words are the only hope for the communities.
 
