In April this year, DU's English department had sent out a modified syllabus under its Credit Based Choice System for feedback to all DU colleges. The proposed modified syllabus came as a surprise to students as well as the faculty as the course suggested the inclusion of  's ' ' for students choosing an elective course. The proposed syllabus had also recommended making Facebook Post Writing to be part of a course on "academic writing". However, now the proposal to include Bhagat's novels in the syllabus has hit a roadblock, following oposition from teachers, who were not consulted for the suggested syllabus modifications. DU has decided to put the proposal on hold and formed a review committee to recommend if it can be taken up in the next academic session.

  
  Chetan Bhagat
 
  DU professors tell us that the struggle was never against Chetan Bhagat, but to make changes in the Credit Based Choice System by having an equal participation from the teachers, who are going to teach the subject. 
 
  
  DT's April 2017 article on Chetan Bhagat's book 'Five Point Someone' being made a part of DU's English Elective Course. The professors had, even then, debated that his book isn't fit to be part of the syllabus
 
  Gorvika Rao, a faculty member of the English department of  , says, "We cannot say that his novel has been removed from the syllabus because it was never added in the first place. It was only a proposal. Since the changes were suggested without informing the teachers, the paper has been put on hold. Though the paper might not be taught to students this year, I don't think it will be included next year as well. I oppose the idea of including his novel in the course because it makes no sense. Students can't study those novels. They need something to examine, which his novels surely do not have."
 
  
  
 
  Sanam Khanna, a faculty member from the English department of Kamala Nehru College, says, "At the moment, papers are being reconceptualised. Those were all proposals - nothing was added to the course, we have had two meetings with the department, and we are decoding how we wish to reconceptualise the course for our students. As far as Chetan Bhagat is concerned, that was also at a preliminary stage and nothing was finalized. I think after 2005, this is the first time when major changes have taken place in the syllabus. We are almost starting from scratch. More than the text, the process to decode/analyse a text is important for us. Our students should have the skills to decode a popular, non-popular and controversial text."
 
  
  
 
  Meenakshi Bharat, a faculty member of the English department of   says, "The problem certainly was that the teachers were sidelined after the introduction of Chetan Bhagat into the course. I think there are better authors than him in terms of literature, but we cannot ignore the fact that he is one of the most popular fictional authors of present times. I am not talking about the value judgement of his texts, but we cannot completely ignore the fact that he represents popular imagination. But if he is popular today, then we should be able to include another author with changing popular imagination and popular appeal in the next two-three years."
 
  Despite repeated attempts, Chetan remained unavailable for a comment.
 
 
