GHAZIABAD: The   intends to throw open UP Gate, located on NH-24 at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, to vehicular traffic on August 15.

 Work is under way on the   in Delhi to extend it by 50 metres into the UP border. Construction work is also under way to widen the highway to 14 lanes at the junction and to link it with the   of Ghaziabad.
 
 The numerous traffic diversions put in place at the junction for the construction will be ended, making it congestion-free on Independence Day .
 
 NHAI officials told TOI that a request has been made to   (UPPCL) to shift the double-circuit high-tension lines emanating from the 220-kV substation near UP Gate in Noida to an alternative path. These lines at present cross NH-24 near UP Gate.
 
 “We are targeting the lean summer months, when the traffic volume is low, to complete the major portion of the construction work. We have written to DCP (traffic) in Delhi and the traffic directorate in Luck now to issue advisories to commuters to avoid this stretch as much as possible so that work is completed in the least possible time,“ NHAI project director R P Singh said.
 
 One carriageway of the Ghazipur flyover, which carries traffic from the Delhi side towards Ghaziabad, has now been closed for traffic. Two additional lanes are being added to the flyover on either side to increase the total number of lanes to 12.Traffic from Delhi towards Kaushambi in Ghaziabad has been diverted near the poultry market roundabout under the flyover to travel along a three-lane service road that has been constructed at a depth of 2 metres below the highway . Similarly, traffic from Kaushambi towards Ghaziabad via NH-24 through UP Gate has been diverted along another threelane service road constructed at a depth of 2 metres below the highway .
 
 According to the NHAI, the second phase of widening work of the highway , from UP Gate till Dasna, will commence from mid-June.
 
 Soil and traffic surveys for the second phase have been completed and a detailed design is being formulated.
 
 GDA officials said work was under way to connect the ramps of the elevated road to the service lanes that have been constructed along the highway .
 
 “Two spans each of the up and down ramps of the elevated road will be put in place.A massive steel launcher had been placed to lift spans from the ground and fix them on the pillars. Since all spans on the stretch of the elevated road near NH-24 have already been placed, the launcher will be dismantled. Spans of the ramp will be placed thereafter to connect the road to NH-24 near UP Gate,“ GDA executive engineer Chakresh Jain said.
 
