NAGPUR: The state government has decided to prepare a data bank of writers and readers to assist special needs of students appearing for  . This will be the first time that such a   is being prepared where volunteers will register offering their  .

 The   registration link went live on Monday and the board is hoping to get a sizeable number of volunteers.
 
 Till now, students with special needs would arrange for their own writers, usually brought in touch through the school’s principal, thus limiting the number of available persons. 
 
 Though the writer/reader is supposed to be someone enrolled in a class at least one level lower to that student, exceptions have been made to allow adult writers as well. Adult writer can be used only if no writer fulfilling the traditional criteria is available.
 
 Education department has also stated that the adult writer should not be a teacher or relative of the student. Eligibility of the writer has to be certified by the divisional board office based on the recommendations made the school/junior college principal. 
 
 The online databank will be sorted according to geographical criteria so that students will always have a writer/reader from the vicinity. This will reduce the chances of the writer/reader not showing up during the exam. The onus for collecting the data will be on school principals as they are better placed to understand their students’ needs and options available locally.
 
 Since majority of the writer/reader databank will consist of minors, principals will have to ensure that they secure a consent letter from parents. The writer/reader will also have to be intimated about the exam date and subject at least a month in advance and the school will have to get a written confirmation.
 
 Since the writer/reader will also be a student, the principal shall have to ensure that exam dates do not clash. Also a detailed briefing will have to be given to the writer/reader about what type of disability their associated student has, so that they can prepare accordingly. 
 
 The other concession given to students with special needs during board exam is extra time for solving the paper. Usually 20 minutes extra is given to such students. Students also get the question paper a bit earlier to get a feel before they can start answering. 
 
 The department has kept intact all other concessions. In January last year, education minister   had declared that there will be liberal evaluation, grace marks, facility of talking calculator, on-screen reading software (if available at the centre) etc for all special needs students. Students suffering from cerebral palsy, autism, impairment of speech and hearing, physical disability, spastics, learning disorder etc are some who have been given these examination concessions. 
 
