MUMBAI: The city's cup of woes seems to have no end as far as the Mono rail project is concerned. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing this project, may not be in a position to make Phase II operational as it does not have the sufficient number of rakes in its possession.

 MMRDA should have at least 15 rakes to ensure a smooth run once the entire corridor from Chembur to Jacob Circle becomes operational. A source said, “We have 10 rakes, of which only four are operational for Phase I. The balance six are not in use because of some technical glitches in the rakes.But the four are sufficient to cater to demand on this route.“
 
 The balance five rakes are required to ensure service at a frequency of four minutes once the entire 20km-long corridor becomes operational.
 
 MMRDA initially planned to complete the trial runs by December 2016 so that the service can be commissioned on Phase II between Wadala and Jacob Circle before March 2017. However, trials had to be aborted after a conductor rail dislocated on August 8 near Currey Road. A delay in delivering the balance five rakes has aggravated problems.
 
 The rakes are to be procured by Malaysian firm  , which the source claimed is unable to deliver as it is currently carrying out a technology upgrade. The source said, “The modification in the rake technology is being carried out since November 2015. It has been almost 14 months since then but not a single of the five rakes has been delivered.“   has assured that it will be able to deliver at least two rakes by March and the balance by June.
 
 MMRDA's additional metropolitan commissioner   said, “All five balance rakes will be delivered by June. The system will be ready for trials by the end of January.The process of safety certification will begin. We hope to get Phase II operational by June.“
 
 The 20km-long corridor will pass through congested areas of central Mumbai. It also have interchange facilities with suburban station on the Harbour line at Wadala, on Main line at Currey Road and Western Railway at Lower Parel.The Jacob Circle station is not very far from   and Mahalaxmi stations too.
 
