NAGPUR: Marching towards a patriotic society, 264 officer cadets took part in the passing out parade to become Associated NCC Officers (ANOs) of   (NCC) on Saturday, at Chunilal Parade Ground, Officer’s Training Academy, Kamptee. The parade, which was the culmination of a three-month training, also marked the diamond jubilee celebration of NCC. The parade was reviewed by  , director general of NCC. 

 In his key note address, Vashisht, addressing the newly inducted officers said, “The fact that you have mastered the parading skills in just three months shows your dedication towards spreading the message of discipline and unity in the society. I know you will do your duty of bringing a positive change in the society.” 
 
 He further emphasized the importance of nationalism and expressed his faith that the officers would help induce a national sentiment among the youth. Vashisht further said, “The training which you have received must reach every youth in the country. About 65% population of India is young and it is our duty to show them the right path. Every officer must ensure that the 10 students he teaches must forward this message to 100 more as it is the only way to spread awareness about national integration properly.” 
 
 The newly inducted ANOs marched to the tunes of ‘Sare jahan se accha’ and ‘Kadam kadam badhaeja’ rendered by the brass band of Guards Regimental Centre, Kamptee. The ceremony was witnessed by service officials, other dignitaries, relatives of the ANOs, schoolchildren and NCC cadets.
 
 Teachers and professors from across the country participated in the three month training programme of NCC. These teachers will train the students of their respective schools and colleges. 
 
 Officer cadet   and officer cadet Akella Gurusaran won Director General’s baton for standing first in order of merit among the senior and junior divisions respectively. The Director General’s banner for Inter Coy Championship was won by  . The medals to the winners were presented by Vashisht. The parade was commanded by officer cadet  .
 
