NEW DELHI: The   in   spurt upwards like weak,   Built on tiny, 25-square-yard plots, the floors — sometimes as many as six — rise disproportionately into the sky. When you look at them, you would think that they will topple over any time. And one did on Saturday morning.

 Belying its history as a resettlement colony for jhuggi dwellers since the 1960s, it is today a gaggle of concrete structures that houses thousands. With the Naraina Industrial Area nearby a ready source of migrant tenants, every plot owner is keen to cash in on the demand for rooms. So the buildings continue to mushroom with no one present to monitor the quality of their construction. As the locals themselves admit, a bribe is more powerful here than the Delhi Municipal Act, 1957, which governs building norms in the capital.
 
 “There is no punishment for violating the building laws,” alleged one resident. “If you are prepared to bribe them, neither the cops nor corporation officials will bother you even if you erect six floors without adhering to safety norms.”
 
 The under-construction house at C-224 which fell on a neighbouring building was constructed similarly to house tenants. Laxmi Narayan Paharia, a resident of Inderpuri for over 40 years, had pulled down his old house to erect the five-storey building. On Saturday, he claimed, “I did not use poor construction materials. I do not know how the building collapsed.”
 
 As it toppled down, Paharia’s tower damaged five neighbouring buildings. It now rests precariously on one of the structures in front of it. “The lives of many people are under threat here,” said Kishan Kheralia, who lives in the neighbourhood. “We have to learn lessons from this and it is also time the corporation took strict action against the illegal constructions.”
 
 The illegally built houses are money spinners for the owners, pointed out local resident Radhe Shyam. “There are lots of people from other states who work in Naraina Industrial Area, and the demand for affordable houses has surpassed the supply in Inderpuri. Flats are available for Rs 3,000 to Rs 10,000 per month,” said Shyam.
 
 The proliferation of such buildings is a controversial topic in the area, and has often led to heated arguments among the residents. In fact, when TOI asked Deepak Dayma, who is putting up his own five-floor tower, he retorted in an unpleasant tone: “My building might look weak but it isn’t weak. Everybody here is constructing multi-storey buildings. Are we the first to violate the laws?”
 
 Vijender Garg, the Aam Aadmi Party legislator from the area, blamed the municipal corporation and police for the illegal constructions. “I have complained to the corporations many times but they do not bother to listen to the MLA. People pay up to Rs 1 lakh in bribes to get illegal houses approved,” Garg alleged.
 
 Saturday’s incident could herald a change. “If an inquiry finds the corporation officials at fault, we will take action against them,” promised PK Gupta, commissioner of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.
 
 
