 might be entering the ' ' house as a commoner but in many parts of Delhi,  , and western UP, the Delhi-based dancer might have more fans than many of the celebs who will share the house with her this season. But despite the fame and the followers, Sapna maintains she isn’t a celebrity. "I don’t get affected by the fan following or the fame. I don’t consider myself a celeb. Na kabhi maana hai na kabhi maanungi. I am a commoner. The celebrity tag is not for me," she says in a chat with Delhi Times before stepping into the 'Bigg Boss' house.
 
 Sapna was born in a village outside Gurgaon in Haryana’s Rohtak district but has lived in Delhi’s Najafgarh for some years now and describes herself as a 'simple, sober Delhi girl'. A dancer by profession, Sapna’s performances in   events and stage shows have earned her quite a lot of popularity in North India, particularly in NCR. Ask her what she wants to achieve through the show and the Najafgarh girl has a succinct reply, "I want the world to see me for who I am and not what has been written and said about me." She elaborates, "People say I’m a dancer and throw words like vulgar and obscene but they don’t know how I am off the stage. I am a simple Delhi girl, who dances for a living. That is my work, not who I am. People only see what happens on the stage and not the hard work that goes behind it. Yeh mera kaam hai, jo main mehnat se karti hoon." The allegations of vulgarity and obscenity she talks about have followed her for some time now. Her   videos and performances have earned her fans but also brickbats for her ‘provocative’ style. "Vulgarity is in the eyes. Something is only vulgar if you look at it a certain way. I just dance. So if I’m vulgar, then so are all the girls in the item numbers of the Bollywood films," she says.
  
 Her dance gigs have earned Sapna a few controversies too. Last year, she was booked for hate speech in Gurgaon after she allegedly said something hateful against a particular community. The 27-year-old even attempted suicide after the incident. "Woh case abhi bhi chal raha hai," she tells us. But she has an explanation for why controversies follow her. She explains, "Like my mother says, I’m an aafat ki pudiya. Wherever I go, aafat follows." So, is she looking to bring some aafat with her to the house as well? "Oh, I don’t bring the aafat. It just follows me. I will just be myself. It’s the others who will find the aafat," she says with a laugh.
 
 
