TV actress  , who is back on screen on 'Woh Apna Sa' after a hiatus of two years, is spreading awareness on   and wrote a long message for her fans of the same.
 
  Recently a student committed suicide in Mumbai and actors and other prominent personalities have taken it to social media to spread awareness about depression and how to deal with it.
  
  
 
  
    wrote in her Facebook post, "Depression is real. Whether you understand it or not. Depression takes a toll on people emotionally and mentally. Those suffering from depression are some of the strongest people. Not the weakest. Because they go about their lives daily with a tornado in their body, mind and soul every minute of the day. Be kind. Be thoughtful. Be non judgemental. If u don't understand anything about depression. That's good. You are blessed. But don't put those down who are feeling low, uneasy or down and out.
  You don't know what they r going through. Most often than not they don't know what they are going through. Pls be gentle. And for those feeling crazy, weird and terrible about themselves for no reason. Go easy on yourself. Remember you have family and friends that truly love you. Also remember that you can take your time. Take time off. Take time to be with yourself. There's no need to be anything more than what you are feeling. Try to honor that feeling. Accept it and move from there. Turn to someone you trust or Seek help if you don't. Don't take drastic steps. Don't lose hope. You are unique and special and most times people who go on such tough internal journeys are blessed as you can heal parts of you that will guide you to be the best version of yourself. In a world where people live an escaped life. May you find the strength to turn your weakness into something greater. So smile and chin up. Hug yourself tight. And know you are part of universe's magic."
  
  
 
  Instagrammer and The Trip actress Maliika Dua also shared a post on the same. She suggested ways of overcoming it and talking about it with family and friends.
  
  
  
  Depression has several times led to suicide and we have witnessed that in the cases of celebrities and successful people. After Deepika Padukone opening about how she dealt with the problem, many more actors have come out in open to talk about the same. TV actress Pratyusha, who has allegedly committed suicide last year, was also suffering from the same.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
