Hubballi: Airport officials here are so fed up of preventing supporters of politicians from entering the terminal building that they have put up a poster requesting politicians to manage their followers who are “taking undue advantage of their name and position.”

 The poster, put up by Airport Authority of India officials, at the terminal entrance, “Humble request to all politicians and officers. Please take care of your followers and supporters as they are taking undue advantage of your name and position.” 
 
  director Shivanand Benal told TOI: “Managing supporters of VIPs has become a difficult task for us. They are quite troublesome, especially when prominent personalities like the chief minister or ministers come here. We cannot allow everyone inside the terminal building and compromise on security. But, the followers of politicians don’t listen to us. They say ‘I’m the personal assistant of the minister’.”
 
 The director added that some people, claiming to be known to senior officials of the state and central governments, argue with police officers at the airport entrance. 
 
 Explaining the procedure before allowing anyone inside the terminal when VIPs arrive, Benal said: “The district administration has to prepare a list of those who can be allowed inside the terminal. Unfortunately, this doesn’t happen, even though the matter has been raised in monthly meetings with the district administration.”
 
 A bomb squad personnel, requesting anonymity, said, “Workers of political parties behave as if they are leaders. Their ego is hurt when we do not allow them inside the terminal without prior permission. These are usually members of panchayats, corporators, members of boards and corporations and office-bearers of political parties. We cannot allow even gunmen of politicians inside the terminal,” he added. 
 
 Security personnel said politicians should convince their supporters to cooperate with security personnel. But, some politicians don’t do it as they don’t want to upset their supporters. 
 
 
