AHMEDABAD : Even as the   probe is set to be transferred to the   ( ),   sources have revealed that   — Waseem and Naeem — were to go to Kashmir to learn how to avoid cyber surveillance while communicating with their handlers on social networking sites.

  According to ATS sources, a youth from Bengaluru, also in touch with ISIS handlers based in Syria, was to accompany Ramodiya brothers to Kashmir.
 
 “We have the name of the person who was to give practical lessons to Ramodiya brothers along with the Bengaluru youth. We are in touch with our Kashmir counterparts and soon we would arrest him and the youth from Bengaluru,” added a senior ATS official.
 
 ATS officials said that during forensic examination of cellphones and laptops of Ramodiya brothers it came to light that both the brothers were part of two groups on social media.
 
 “One group by the name of al-Halal had about 150 members spread across several states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan. The administrator of this group is also a Gujarati and we are tracing his whereabouts. All the group members are being scanned. Another group consists of highly educated youths. However, we are yet to ascertain whether the second group was as radicalized as the first one,” a senior ATS official said.
 
 Gujarat ATS has written to the state government to transfer the probe to the NIA.
 
 According to sources, ATS has mentioned in the letter that the ISIS module busted by them has links in different states. “As the brothers were in direct touch with their handlers from foreign shores, the case needs to be transferred to the NIA,” added an ATS official.
 
 Home department officials said that they have received the letter and are examining its content. 
 
 Waseem and Naeem were held by Gujarat ATS from Rajkot and Bhavnagar for their alleged links with terror outfit ISIS. According to ATS sources, Ramodiya brothers had attempted a lone-wolf attack near Chotila temple and also had attempted to torch vehicles in Rajkot and Bhavnagar.
 
 Gujarat ATS had also recovered firecrackers and gun powder from the residence of Waseem in Rajkot. “Ramodiya brothers were to make bombs from firecrackers and gun powder,” added an ATS official.
 
