MYSURU: When Malini, III year BCom student, wanted to try wearing a sari, she looked for help online. When it proved to be too little, the Kodava girl logged out and went straight to a beauty parlour.

 The student of city-based   is not alone in her new-found love for wearing saris. Having known how to wear a sari in Kodava style, she wanted to try in different  , something which   are cashing in on now. Many parlours in the city have started tutorials to young girls and women on how to wear sari in traditional styles.
 
 Malini said: “I was interested to learn different ways of draping saris. At present, I’m learning the styles online and from one of my friends. I’m planning to join a course in a parlour to perfect the art of draping.” 
 
 High on the list of girls is wearing sari in Maharashtra traditional style, thanks to blockbuster movie ‘Bajirao Mastani’ immortalized by Bollywood divas Deepika Pudokone and Priyanka Chopra in the Indian attire. Explains H K Sapna: “In recent months, the Maharashtra traditional style of sari draping has become a trend among girls and women. It started after the release of the Bollywood movie a year ago. Many girls come specifically to learn that style.”
 
 A member of Mysuru District Beauticians and Beauty Parlour Owners’ Association said: “Most of the customers come to know about draping saris in different traditional styles. Two years ago, I decided to start a course on wearing saris as per different traditions in the country. In recent months, the number of girls checking into parlours to learn the same has gone up.” 
 
 Draping saris in styles like dhothi, Punjabi, lehanga, Iyengari, fishtale, Kodava, Gujarati, Bengali and Marathi are in much demand. There are over 1,500 beauty parlours in Mysuru region. “On an average, 400 members visit parlours, with college students being the main clientele base,” said association secretary Veda N Rai.
 
 S Sanjana, a student of Maharani’s College, said: “I love to learn various types of wearing a sari. It is a good that some parlours are giving tutorials on this.”
 
 As most of working women and college-going girls prefer jeans and kurtis — instead of traditional attires like sari for their dailywear — wearing of saris has been restricted to special occasions and auspicious ceremonies like weddings, pujas and festivals. As wearing sari is getting trendy, the number of girls joining tutorials is increasing, and parlours are making the most of it. They teach women how to wear a sari for a fee ranging from Rs 300 (for a single session) to Rs 2,000 (weeklong course). They also give make-up tips to the clients.
 
 - Vinitha V P
 
 
