THANE: In a first of its kind initiative, the   (MoEF) has managed to get rid of abandoned ghost fishing nets that have been left abandoned along the bio-diversity rich coastal areas in Sindhudurg.

 This step was taken after many sea turtles, dolphins and other large fish were found bruised or suffocated by the synthetic fishing nets. In one case, an endangered sea turtle was given a new lease of life when a team of   rescued it from the net and released it back into the ocean.
 
 The team of scubadivers from the Indian Institute of Scuba Diving (IISD), under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), GEF-GOI project, rescued and released hundreds of other marine life that were caught in these ghost nets.
 
 After realising that these ghost fishing   were affecting the marine ecosystem, the environment ministry tied up with the IISD institute and began the drive last January.
 
 Over the last one year, the divers have cleared over 2 lakh sq m of abandoned nets and have resecued hundreds of marine life from the coasts of Malvan and Vengurla in Sindhudurg district.
 
 The ministry even sponsored 50% of the scuba training for the volunteers. Chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) N Vasudevan said, “Over the years, we have found a number of injured and, at times, even dead sea turtles and large fish washed ashore. The abandoned nets that are left behind in the sea either because they were broken due to the weight of a huge catch or because they are left behind by fishermen and trawlers.”
 
 “Some marine life, including dolphins and turtles, need to come to the surface for air. However, they tend to get entangled in them and suffocate and die,” he added.
 
 Sarang Kulkarni, marine biologist and director at The Scuba Diving institute, said, “These synthetic nets have affected not only the coastal environment, but also the fisheries department as it suffocates thousands of marine life daily. Through this drive, we have not only rescued hundreds of marine animals from the mesh of nets, but also saved the tonnes that would have eventually got caught here.”
 
 The success of this campaign could result in the realisation of such initiatives across the east and west coastline of the country. “With the help of the locals, we can carry out this ghost net fishing activities throughout our coastline and prevent any further marine casualties,” Vasudevan added.
 
 
