CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress vice-president and Abohar MLA Sunil Jakhar submitted a memorandum on the recent raid in Fazilka jail to the state’s chief electoral officer (CEO) VK Singh, alleging that the Badal government was influencing the probe into the incident and soft-peddling the case. The police were trying to save culprits by distorting facts and lying that the meeting was held in the superintendent’s office, he added.

 Jakhar said he had requested Singh to send a team to ascertain how many people could fit in the jail superintendent’s office, and added he was sure not more than six could be accommodated, while the total number of people caught attending the meeting were more than two dozen. In its memorandum, the Congress has demanded immediate dismissal of the Badal government in the light of the Fazilka sub-jail incident and conduct of the assembly elections under the President’s rule, to prevent any interference or disturbance in the poll process, besides handing over investigation into the case to a central agency.
 
 Jakhar complemented Singh on successfully reining in Akali-patronized goons, alleging that the Badal government had failed to check the spread of goondaism in the state over the past 10 years. He said the incident had exposed the nefarious links of the ruling SAD with criminals and gangsters in Punjab, and once again shown that free and fair elections in the state were not possible under the Badal-led SAD regime. Questioning the mode of entry of so many people into the jail, Jakhar said they had either forced their entry, amounting to criminal trespass or jailbreak, or they had bribed their way, in which case appropriate charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act should be framed against them.
 
 Alleging that the entry showed complicity of higher-ups, Jakhar asked why the murder accused and Sukhbir’s henchman Shiv Lala Doda’s name was not mentioned in the FIR, adding that he had requested that the jail superintendent’s statement be made public. He also demanded call records of the concerned DC and DSP be made public to find out how many times Sukhbir had called and intervened since the raid started. In its memorandum, the Punjab Congress expressed the apprehension that the meeting in jail premises was held to plan large-scale disruption during the coming elections. Jakhar said photographs showed Doda being provided all modern facilities, including AC, radiator, bed, and carpet in the prison, from where he appeared to be conducting his nefarious business.
 
