PUNE: The   has directed the Bank of Maharashtra — the lead bank in the district — to keep a tab on sudden   in the accounts of   contesting the  .

 State election commissioner J S Saharia told TOI that they had written to the Bank of Maharashtra top brass, asking to send letters to all its branches to monitor transactions in the accounts of candidates.
 
  Subsequently, letters have been sent to all the branches of the bank to send “suspicious transaction reports” of candidates to the municipal corporation authorities or the district collector.
 
 There are 1,625 branches of the Bank of Maharashtra in the district.
 
 “Once the candidates are finalized, they have been instructed to open separate accounts to show their expenses. We have directed them to report any   transactions in their accounts, especially if there is a huge withdrawal or deposit,” said Saharia.
 
 The state election commission has announced that a candidate can spend up to Rs 5 lakh in A-category corporations.
 
 The state election commission officials stated besides preparing the suspicious transaction reports, the banks would keep track of any big amount deposited or debited by any candidate. Their reports have to be sent to the financial intelligence units, state election commission, income tax department, superintendent of police and the district collector.
 
 Bank officials opined checking the separate accounts of candidates would be an additional responsibility when they were saddled with the issues of demonetisation.
 
 “We have been told to keep track of candidates’ accounts and check if there is any sudden debit or deposit. We have called a meeting on Thursday with the representatives of the branches because there would be a dedicated team to handle these accounts,” said a senior bank official of Pune district.
 
 The official pointed out that they were already reporting high transactions to the income tax authorities and tracking the accounts of candidates would be an additional task.
 
 The civic polls candidates can file their nominations from January 27 to February 3. The last day of withdrawal of nomination is February 7, after which a clear picture would emerge about who are in the fray.
 
 Candidates would face the heat following the state election commission’s order to monitor their accounts. “The expenses for any event are huge and the present expenditure limit for the civic polls is not enough,” said an aspiring candidate.
 
 Besides the bank officials, senior officials of the income tax department would be a part of the state expenditure monitoring committees to be formed in municipal corporations to monitor the affidavits of the candidates.
 
 Ten municipal corporations, 25 zilla parishads and 283 panchayat samitis would go to polls next month.
 
