Nagpur: “Dharma and sanskriti cannot be separated as these are determined by each other. Every person should follow his dharma and work to preserve sanskriti,” said Shantakka, chief of Rashtra Sevika Samiti, on Wednesday. She was speaking at the launch of book ‘Dharma and sanskriti: A reflection’. The book, written by RSS veteran Ranga Hari, has been translated into English by Manjushree Sardeshpande. The ceremony was organized by Hindu Dharma Sanskriti Mandir to celebrate 75 years of completion of the organization. Shantakka was the keynote speaker at the programme. In her address, she said, “Now-a-days, people do not understand the real meaning of dharma as they associate it with religion. Dharma is a profound subject with different definitions and therefore books like this will help understand its real meaning.” Remembering the views of Swami Vivekananda on dharma, Shantakka said, “People these days often use the ‘dharma-nirpeksha’ (secular) term. But according to the Vivekananda, dharma is soul and life force of Bharat. There is no proper word for ‘dharma’ in English due to which people mix it with religion,” added Shantakka. Explaining the importance of books in society, she said, “They are the source of great knowledge, so we must propagate the message of dharma and brotherhood through them.” There are different types of dharma a person should follow. These include ‘kartavya dharma’, ‘samaj dharma’, ‘sainik dharma’ and others. Following dharma is the responsibility of a person towards society, his family and nation,” added Shantakka. According to Vedas, the basic dharma of a person is to speak truth and spread message of non-violence and humanity, she said. Well-known industrialist Nikhil Kusumgar, who was the chief guest, congratulated Hindu Dharma Sanskriti Mandir for completing 75 years and encouraged it to publish books spreading the message of dharma and sanskriti. Book is the only medium through which change in society’s mindset can be brought about, Kusumgar said. Former chief of Rashtra Sevika Samiti Pramila Medhe was present. 