COIMBATORE: One Of the six accused arrested in   (DVK) member   in the night of March 16, one is a close friend and another a former business partner of the victim. To the shock of  , both the accused came to the murder spot immediately after they were informed about it. They even stayed with the family members at the   with Farook’s body till the next day morning. 

 A shell-shocked brother-in-law of Farook, I Shahjahan, told TOI, “After we informed about Farook’s murder, his friend Abdul Munaf and former business partner   came to the murder spot. They were with us when the police took the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Both spent the entire night with us in the hospital. But later, we learned that they had played a role in the murder.” 
 
 While Abdul Munaf, 30, is a resident of Thippu Nagar at Saramedu in Karumbukadai, Jaffar Ali, 29, hails from South Ukkadam. Munaf was introduced to Farook by Jaffar six months ago. Both became close friends after Munaf showed interest in rationalist ideology. Farook had even added Munaf’s name in his WhatsApp group called ‘Allahu Murdhath’ where views against Islam and rationalist thoughts were shared between the members. 
 
 Munaf had been passing on Farook’s rationalistic views against Islam to Muslim fundamentalists, who allegedly hatched a plot to murder Farook, according to the police. 
 
 “Farook was in partnership with Jaffar in scarp business. He often exchanged his opinions with Jaffar Ali on atheism and Islam. Jaffar Ali did not like this. So, Farook parted ways with Jaffer and started his own business,” said Shajahan.
 
 “Farook was hacked to death in the night of March 16. I rushed to the spot located near the slaughterhouse at Ukkadam. Within few minutes, Munaf and Jaffar came there. The body of Farook was taken to CMCH by the police. Munaf and Jaffar also came to CMCH and stayed in the hospital till the next day morning. Initially, we did not suspect them,” Shajahan added.
 
 Later in the evening, the city police had picked up Munaf and he was kept in the Big Bazaar Street police station. “When I met Munaf at the police station, he said he was called for questioning in connection with Farook’s murder. Later, police arrested Munaf and Jaffar. Our entire family members were shocked,” said Shajahan.
 
 “Farook started to follow the ideology of Thanthai Periyar since 2004. He was also the member of DVK for more than five years. He had participated in many protests conducted by DVK. But his family members followed Islam. Farook did not force them to convert to atheism. We suspect the involvement of some fundamentalist behind the murder,” said Shajahan. Farook is survived by his wife, a six-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter. 
 
