Are you always in a hurry in the mornings? Do you tend to skip your breakfast most weekdays? Busy mornings and hectic schedules leave many of us with little time to plan and eat proper breakfasts. However, since breakfast is traditionally supposed to be the most fibre-dense meal of the day there is good reason to ensure you set aside time for it.
  has made an appearance on the marquee with companies packing liquid diets in bottles, which can replace a traditional breakfast. However, instead of going in for a processed, packaged liquid breakfasts, try making it at home. Add vitamins and minerals — particularly Vitamins B6 and B12,  , Vitamin D, folate and niacin, along with calcium to these yummy, easy-to-make drinks, which can make for a convenient option whenever you cannot eat your regular breakfast.
 
 
 Want to have coloured fruits for breakfast? Just juice up some red and pink coloured fruits, to get a thirst-quenching pink drink on the go. It is full of Vitamins A and C. Add watermelon, pomegranate and beet root to it. A cool pink concoction, this ruby red coloured juice has properties to have a calming effect on sore muscles as it can repair muscle damage. 
 Clean fruits like watermelon, beet root, and pomegranate. Put all three fruits in the juicer and blend well. Serve immediately in a glass filled with ice cubes.
 
 
 Nothing like good old hot chocolate drink to brighten up your day and get you out of your stress mode. The most healthful versions of hot chocolate use milk and a mix of real dark chocolate and cocoa powder, and a low dose of sugar. If you go back in history, you will find that chocolate was originally sipped as a spiced drink and not nibbled the way it is these days. Even now, in Spain, hot chocolate is pudding-thick and served with churros as a morning treat, while in Peru, it is a part of the traditional Christmas breakfast. What’s more, it is healthy too, since this rich and delicious beverage is packed with flavonoids, antioxidants and calcium.
 
 
 Easy to digest as well as giving you a boost of energy, green smoothies are nutritious to say the least. The vegetables you can use for these are many — spinach, cucumber, lettuce, kale, collard greens... the choice is unlimited. Once your palate adjusts to the taste, you can also add parsley, watercress, etc. Add fruits like bananas, kiwis, apples, pears and mangoes to get a naturally sweet flavour. Use coconut milk to thicken the drink and you have a delicious, refreshing liquid snack ready in minutes, which has detoxifying properties too. 
 
 
 For an instant yet filling breakfast, try the oatmeal smoothie. Super easy to make and perfect for a quick pick-me-up breakfast, oatmeal smoothies are perfect to kick-start your day. Adding oats to smoothies results in a thicker, silkier consistency and a more filling beverage. They also ensure that you get more of wholegrains with less cholesterol in your daily diet. Just combine your favourite oatmeal, low-fat yogurt, fruits of your choice, a little bit of milk, coconut milk, honey and dry fruits in a blender and blend till it is smooth.
 
 
 Want to add a dash of energy to your normal banana smoothie? Add some coffee to it, blend it well and pour into a mason jar for good effect. Packed with deliciousness this banana coffee smoothie can perk you up in just one sip. If you add some peanut butter to it, you get a dose of protein too. This drink is so delicious, that you don’t need any extra toppings. Just take one cup of brewed coffee, one banana, one cup of cold milk and fresh ice and blend them all together till the drink is creamy. The addition of bananas, which are rich in fibre, antioxidants, and other various nutrients makes this a power packed drink.
 
