INDORE: With an aim to address a huge gap between  , state run   (ITIs) have signed 30   (MoUs) with leading companies from across the country on Saturday. 

 The MoUs were signed during a sectoral workshop organised by   Council for Vocational Education and Training (MPCVET). About 130 industries and training partners took part in the workshop.
 
 Industries have signed the MoUs to collaborate with ITIs of the state in providing skilled training to students that will enhance placement opportunities. 
 
 MPCVET additional director G N Agrawal said, “In comparison to developed countries where 60 to 90 per cent workforce is skilled, in India the percentage is just about five. There is acute shortage of quality skilled workforce in region and it can be bridged by involvement of industries.”
 
 The ITIs have signed an MoU with an online transport network company-Ola. As per the MOU, the students will be trained as drivers in accordance with standard requirement of the company. Some of the major MoUs were signed with Mahindra Trucks, Daulatram and JBM. There are 218 ITIs and 136 skill development centres owned by government in the state. 
 
 According to Agrawal, about 600 ITI students will be imparted training by different companies. He said that major focus will be on skill development for retail, electricity, IT, hospitality and capital goods. 
 
 Speakers at the event felt that there is a gap in ITI students training as the courses is not aligned to industry requirements. 
 
  Sharma, general manager-head skill development, JBM Group said, “Industries are coming forward to create first class training centres to address the demand and supply gap of skilled workforce.”
 
 Industrialists said that the demand for skilled workers is tremendous in the region with growing number of industries in the area. 
 
 Agrawal said, “Until now the focus of ITIs was not on the outcome of training. Their major attention was on quality skill development and job opportunities. 
 
 Industrialists at the event said that the government’s national apprentice promotion scheme (NAPS) and Flexi MoU are great initiatives to collaborate industries with ITIs for skill training.
 
