NEW DELHI: What a mismatch this looks like.   were shot out for 67 - their lowest total - in their last match to slip to last on the   points table. The defending champions   are coming off a 48-run win over second-placed Kolkata Knight Riders, having made their highest total of 209/3 thanks to  's 59-ball 126.

 How have Delhi managed to get into such a woeful predicament? The batting has, frankly, been awful. Despite trying several combinations, their struggles have left them down for the count. Daredevils have played the least matches (eight) and have seven to go, but how they will find the impetus to turn around what has been an abject campaign so far is anyone's guess. 
 
  Conversely,   have few issues and Warner's exceptional century on Sunday would surely have inspired the team in new ways, for the Australian has not had such an innings for a while. A win for SRH will take them to 15 points and push them into the top two, apart from providing elbow room over teams like Rising Pune Supergiant. The play-offs are visible, and burying Delhi will help SRH into the most crucial stage of   2017. 
 
  When these teams met earlier in the tournament, SRH posted 191 and won by 15 runs. Given the form so far, SRH can expect to boss Daredevils once again.
 
  
  Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi
 
  
  May 2, 2017
 
 20:00 IST
 
  A clear evening with a low of 26 degrees Celsius. Variable winds. 
 
 
 
 
 
  led Daredevils on Sunday with Zaheer Khan out with a niggle. Zaheer said that his is not a major injury, so chances are that he slots back in place of Shahbaz Nadeem. 
 
  1 Sanju Samson, 2 Sam Billings, 3 Karun Nair, 4 Shreyas Iyer, 5 Rishabh Pant (wk), 6 Corey Anderson, 7 Chris Morris, 8 Kagiso Rabada, 9 Amit Mishra, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Zaheer Khan 
 
 
 
 
 Bipul Sharma could make way for Deepak Hooda. 
 
  
  1 David Warner (capt), 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3 Kane Williamson, 4 Moises Henriques, 5 
 
  Yuvraj Singh, 6 Deepak Hooda/Bipul Sharma, 7 Naman Ojha (wk), 8 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 9 Rashid Khan, 10 Mohammed Siraj, 11 Siddharth Kaul
 
 
 
 
 - Delhi's 67 is the worst total in the first inning of an IPL match ever. 
 - Against KXIP, Delhi's batsmen managed just five fours in the first ten overs. 
 - Warner needed 43 balls to get his hundred against KKR, the fifth-fastest in the IPL.
 
 
  SRH 6-DD 3
 
 
 
 
 "It was outstanding, we generally look to bat first and set the tone with a positive intent from ball one. We managed to maintain the run rate of 10 an over, which was amazing." - David Warner
 
 "Very disappointing, it wasn't a 67 all-out wicket. We lost too many wickets at the start. It was a lack of intent. It's difficult to pull it back from there. What's done is done, we need to pull up our socks and move on." - Karun Nair
 
 
 
