KOCHI:   seem to be a   if the virulent   that took place in front a swanky Consumerfed outlet at   on Thursday is an indication.

 The outlet was relocated from   based on the recent Supreme Court directive. Activists of Congress, BJP, DYFI and local counsillors were in the forefront of the agitation.
 
 Consumerfed managing director M Ramanunni said that the location of the new outlet was chosen after careful consideration and deliberation, so that there would be no queuing outside the store which has ample space inside. The store also provides parking space to avoid traffic problems.
 
 The 6,000 sq ft twin store at Subhash Bose Road has 10 counters with 3,000 sq ft space allocated to the selfservice counter at the top floor. A conventional liquor outlet in the ground floor has an area of 3,000 sq ft. Conusmerfed officials said that both stores can easily accommodate 100 customers each, with 5 counters at each section to avoid long queues.
 
 Consumerfed has plans to introduce similar, ' ' model stores in the place of 29 outlets across the state that need to be relocated on account of the Supreme Court order. Out of the 29 stores, six are located in Ernakulam district.
 
 “These stores have been designed so that they can cater to customers without creating nuisance to public. I can't help but think that protest against these stores is politically motivated,“ M Ramanunni said.
 
 “What really confuses me is that when the store was located the centre of the city there were no problems, now that we have moved away from the centre, people are saying that it will create trouble. It is impractical and irrational,“ he said. The new store is located less than a kilometre away from the older store in Vyttila.
 
 Interestingly , as a counter response to the ruckus created by political parties, locals in the neighbourhood gathered in the area to protest the action. They stated that the demands made by political parties were impractical and violated consumer rights. Several customers, who reached the store were stopped by the protesters outside the shop.
 
 “It is my money and it is my choice as to how I want to spend it, how can people stop me from doing that,“ said Reji M, a customer.
 
 The Consumerfed has also sought police help to stop any attempt by people to engage in public drinking outside the shop. “This store has set up after acquiring all the required licenses and approval of the municipality and excise department,“ M Ramanunni said.
 
