PATNA: Amid reports of turbulence in Bihar’s ruling coalition, it was time for dinner   for Bihar CM  , who was ostensibly the only non-BJP CM to attend the farewell dinner hosted by PM   in Delhi for President Pranab Mukherjee on Saturday night.

 The grand alliance of RJD, JD (U) and Congress has been under strain for a fortnight with the opposition demanding the removal of deputy CM tejashwi Prasad Yadav from the council of ministers following the CBI raids conducted against him on July 7 in connection with land graft charges against his family. 
 
 Tejashwi is a named accused in an FIR lodged in this connection by CBI on July 5. The RJD has said he won’t resign.
 
 Nitish, who recently broke ranks with the opposition by extending support to NDA’s presidential pick Ram Nath Kovind, is likely to meet PM Modi twice during the next four days. For, he is also slated to attend the swearing-in of Kovind as President on July 25, which would be attended by PM Modi as well. Nitish met Kovind on Saturday to congratulate him.
 
 While Nitish’s itinerary in Delhi has fuelled reports of likely tie-up between the   and JD (U), political observers recalled Nitish resorted to dinner diplomacy in times of political turmoil in past as well. He cancelled the dinner he was to host for the saffron party’s national leaders in Patna at the eleventh hour in 2010. 
 
 The move was then attributed to the BJP advertising certain photographs in the media in which he was seen holding the hand of Modi, the then   CM. Three years on, Nitish severed 17- year-old ties with the BJP against its decision to ptoject Modi as its PM face in the 2014 general election. 
 
 Nitish again fuelled speculations when he on May 27 this year attended a luncheon hosted by PM Modi in New Delhi in honour of Mauritius PM Pravind Jugnauth, a day after skipping another luncheon hosted by Congress president   for opposition leaders.
 
 The dinner diplomacy amid the ongoing political crisis in the state has set tongues wagging. Though RJD chief Lalu Prasad told newsmen on Friday that Nitish should attend the dinner as it concerned the President, party insiders sniffed a political purpose in Nitish’s gesture.
 
 “Nitish shares a fond relationship with Pranab whom he had supported in the presidential election in 2012 though he was a   nominee and Nitish was with NDA. However, it is also difficult to digest that Nitish attended the dinner even as other non-BJP CM did not,” said a senior RJD functionary.
 
 JD (U) functionaries did not rule out a “hidden agenda”. “If one looks at Nitish’s support to demonetisation and NDA’s presidential nominee, it can be anyone’s guess that he is weighing all options before him,” a JD (U) spokesman said, preferring anonymity, and added it was, however, difficult to know what was going on inside Nitish’s mind.
 
 
