PATIALA: As the demand for allowing Sikh women to perform `kirtan' in the   sanctum sanctorum gains ground, lack of institutions imparting training to them in Gurmat Sangeet has come to fore.Other than the  , Patiala there is no institution in the state, including those run by   (SGPC), that offers a course on `Gurmat Sangeet' for women.

 There are numerous private institutions teaching `Gurmat Sangeet' to Sikh men. Besides teaching `Gurmat Sangeet' in the main campus in Patiala, Punjabi varsity trains both men and women in its colleges at   (Patiala),   (Faridkot), Chunni Kalan (Fatehgarh Sahib) and Rampura Phul (Bathinda).
 
 In Punjabi University, there are 54 students pursuing BA honours in `Gurmat Sangeet' and 11 doing MA while 12 are pursuing PhD in the subject.
 
 “We are the first to introduce `Gurmat Sangeet' as a subject in Punjab.Among all students in the university and affiliated colleges, around 50% are girl students. In 2013, we introduced `Gurmat Sangeet' online so that people around the world can learn the nuances of this subject. Now Sikh students from various countries are learning `Gurmat Sangeet' online and even certificates are given. The ratio of girl students has declined only because there is less scope in the field for them,“ said Professor Gurnam Singh, head of the department Gurmat Sangeet, Punjabi University.
 
 There are 38 colleges under SGPC but none runs a course on `Gurmat Sangeet.' However, it is a taught in music classes. Similarly, the Guru Granth Sahib World University in Fatehgarh Sahib also does not offer any specific course on `Gurmat Sangeet.' Harpreet Singh, assistant professor in music (vocal) department, said, “We do not run any specific course on `Gurmat Sange et' but in MA (music vocal), we teach it as a subject.There are 15 students in our university learning in MA (music vocal) out of which two are girls.“
 
 When contacted, SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar said, “We teach `Gurmat Sangeet' to students in SGPC colleges and it is taught even in Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University. We will soon introduce `Gurmat Sangeet as a specific subject too.“
 
 Badungar, however, declined to comment on allowing women to perform `kirtan' at the Akal Takht.He said, “It's a matter of Sikh Rehat Maryada (code of conduct). It is not in my capacity to take a decision over this as the Jathedar of Akal Takht would discuss the subject.“
 
