NEW DELHI: The mayors of the capital's three municipal corporations,   and Congress state president Ajay Maken, among other politicians, are pressed for time. And it is not because they are busy with strategies for the impending municipal elections. But with the polls round the corner, the parties think a better bet to impress voters is to inaugurate schemes or lay the foundation stones of civic projects. 

 On Tuesday, South   mayor Shyam Sharma inaugurated a Rs 21.6-crore, multi-level parking in Rajouri Garden. 
 
 At the function, Sharma said, "We have worked for the people like nobody did in the past. In a couple of days, I will dedicate more such infrastructures to the people." The same day, the mayor laid the foundation stone of a CNG cremation ground and a cycle parking in Guru Nanak Pura. 
 
 BJP leaders have had a busy schedule these past few days. East Delhi mayor Satya Sharma opened a new community centre at Old Tezab Mill Chowk in Shahdara on Tuesday, while Maheish Girri, BJP MP from East Delhi, inaugurated a mini stadium at a municipal primary school in Pandav Nagar. In one week, there have been six inaugurations and stone laying ceremonies. These followed the party's state president Tiwari opening the central medicine store of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation at Dilshad Garden on February 23.
 
 Tiwari was also there to throw open the Dr Sahib Singh Verma Recreation Centre in Rohini on Sunday, where he extolled the achievement of the  . He was busy throughout February at similar North Corporation functions. He didn't have time for the Bhim Rao Ambedkar Recreation Centre for Senior Citizens in  , where BJP councillor Rajesh Bhatia did the honours.
 
 "BJP has done a lot of development work in the civic bodies and I get invited for many inauguration," Tiwari said, adding that the citizens might not remember political speeches, but did remember useful infrastructure created for them.
 
 On Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt's invitation, Maken threw open the   on February 21, one of the many of such tasks that the Congress state president has been requested to undertake. 
 
 Political parties use such events to make a slew of promises and to show up their rivals in a bad light. Leaders exaggerate the achievements of their parties and highlight the work they did in an effort to woo people to press the button against their symbol on the voting machines. 
 
 Of course, some of the councillors, who fear they may be denied tickets to contest the coming polls, also use the occasions to invite party bosses in the hope of impressing them.
 
 
