PATNA: The advisory council of  , at its meeting on Saturday, has decided to make its admission procedure online from the academic session beginning from July this year. It has collaborated with   branch on the college campus for the purpose, said principal Sanjoy Kumar.

 Kumar said each student will have to pay Rs250 against each form to be made available online. The new system will automatically generate the admission form soon after making the payment online. Students seeking admission to both undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be required to fill up the forms online, he said. A ‘challan’ will be generated on the basis of which students could deposit their fees and other charges after proper verification of the documents and testimonials from the college counters, he added.
 
 The online admission procedure will also prepare a merit list of students for admission to various courses. There will also be a waiting list of students for admission to various courses. Students admitted will get the computerized receipts. The new software will be linked directly to the college counters which will maintain transparency in the admission procedure, the principal said.
 
 The students’ class attendance registers, identity cards and library cards will also be generated online. The college administration will also issue computerized bona fide certificates, character certificates and college leaving certificates to avoid unnecessary delay. The college intends to link students’ admission to their Aadhaar numbers also, he said, adding that those who do not possess Aadhaar card will be given time to get it within a time limit.
 
 Kumar said the college advisory council also decided that students seeking admission in vocational courses, including MBA, MCA, BBM and BCA, would be admitted on the basis of merit and as per the criteria stipulated by the AICTE ( ) and university norms. The advisory council stressed on the need of maintaining cleanliness on the college campus and proper functioning of water coolers. The college has also provided gym facility for both boys and girls on the college campus, he said.
 
