NEW DELHI: The   may soon get new judges, with the   collegium earlier this week recommending four names to the government for appointment.

 As per sources, these include two women lawyers,   and  , which will take the number of women judges to double digit in Delhi HC.
 
 Once the Centre clears the collegium recommendations of senior lawyers Hari Shankar and Naveen Chawla apart from Singh and Palli, warrants of appointments are expected, enabling them to take oath of office.
 
 The latest batch of appointments to HC after a long gap comes at a time when the entire top leadership of the court has been replaced in a matter of weeks. While current Chief Justice G Rohini is set to retire next week, the top three judges after her, namely Justices Indira Banerjee, B D Ahmed and  , have been appointed as Chief Justices in various high courts of the country.
 
 Lawyers and judges both agree that Delhi HC hasn’t seen this kind of massive reshuffle at the top in recent memory and point out that every stakeholder such as bar, bench and the average litigant, may feel the effect of these changes.
 
 Ten names from the bar and four from the subordinate judiciary were sent by the HC collegium early last year after which the appointments to various HCs went into cold storage owing to the tussle between the government and Supreme Court over the power to appoint judges to higher judiciary.
 
 The turf war between them that had begun last year after the quashing of the   (NJAC) Act had later escalated as   first threatened to deal with the issue of rising judge vacancies on the judicial side but later took up a PIL and blamed the Centre for bringing the judiciary to a “grinding halt.”
 
 While the government blamed the top court for failing to bring out a Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) to govern appointment of judges, the Chief Justice of India had earlier hit back, saying non-finalisation of MoP is no ground for not appointing judges.
 
 After the recent fine tuning of MoP by the SC, the current recommendations by the collegium, starting with Delhi HC appointments, signal a clear intent to fill pending vacancies across the country.
 
 
