Anchoring a show live infront of an audience is nothing like acting in front of a camera. There are no retakes, no background score and no editing, it’s almost like doing theatre. And   confesses to enjoy the challenge that it poses. “I like entertaining people and I don’t want to restrict myself to one particular medium,” says the actor, who’s gearing up to play the host at an upcoming awards show. In a chat with Hyderabad Times, the actor dwells on what he loves most about playing an emcee, his sense of humour and more.

 
 
 For the first couple of when you suddenly see a few thousand people looking at you, it’s hard not to go ‘What the fish!’ The trick lies in being able to engage the audience. I constantly try to make eye contact with as many guests as possible and avoid sticking to just one person. Also, I don’t like using telly prompters, so I learn my script thoroughly to ensure everything flows naturally. It’s a lot of fun once you find your gear.
 I love comedy and light-hearted banter and anchoring gives me scope to prove that I’m more than just the characters I play on screen. What you see on the stage is the real me.
 
 
 I love  , I think he’s one of the wittiest actors we have in India. His sense of humour is just amazing. I grew up watching him host so many award functions, what a guy he is yaa! He’s a major influence on me as a host.
 
 
 Hits and flops will come and go but I can experiment only now. I can’t afford to be in the safe zone. Already, I can only do characters that are in their 20s. 
 As far as acting in 1971... goes, I consider it a great opportunity to have worked with a co-star like  . It was the most physically exacting film I have done, till date. Anything that is making you work hard is actually teaching you something new. 
 I want to do more edgy films. My second film Kotha Janta was a popcorn flick that was a box office hit while my debut movie Gauravam, despite having a social theme as its core, didn’t do well. But if had a chance, I would still do Gauravam again, maybe a better version of it, because you learn a lot more from failures. 
 
 
