  

 
 Jr. NTR, Posani Krishna Murali, Pradeep Rawat,  , Hamsa Nandini, Abhimanyu Singh
 
 
 K. S. Ravindra
 
 
  21 Sep, 2017
 
 
 2 hrs 35 mins
 
 
  Jai Lava Kusa is a 
  of action-drama genre written and directed by K. S. Ravindra. The movie features Jr. NTR, Raashi Khanna and Nivetha Thomas in the lead roles. This film marks the Telugu debut of Hindi film and television actor  , who will play the film's villain. The movie is produced by Jr. NTR's brother Nandamuri Kalyan Ram under his banner N. T. R. Arts. The soundtrack is composed by Devi Sri Prasad. Chota K. Naidu is the film's cinematographer. The songs and background score was scored by  , and the audio was released on September 3 2017 on Lahari Music.
 
 
 The first half is high on entertainment and NTR mesmerises with his dance numbers. The interval bang comes with the arrival of Jai in a powerful fight. 
 .
 
 
  A good actor makes you overlook any shortcomings in any technical department and that's what   does with his portrayal, especially that of Jai. Sai Kumar, who plays the henchman of Jai, puts in quite a good performance although, his characterisation could have been better. While the first half of the film is entertaining, the second half is entirely an emotional drama. The scenes in which Lava and Kusa make use of the drama episodes to try and bring about a change in Jai are laudable. 
 .
 
 
 In US, the movie received massive advance booking and hours before its booking, the movie received $275,000 in pre-sales alone. The movie collected $589,000 at the US box office during its premiere, breaking the record of 'Janatha Garage' which raked in $584,000.
 
 
 : The film has reportedly grossed Rs 30 crore on its opening day across the Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and Rs 42 crore approximately worldwide.
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
