BHOPAL: River conservation will flow into the school syllabus in Madhya Pradesh, with the   Seva Yatra an integral part of the lesson, officials told TOI on Friday. What’s more, school students in Madhya Pradesh will now mark ‘Narmada Jayanti’ every year.

 “Narmada Seva Yatra was the world’s biggest river conservation campaign. Students will be taught about Narmada conservation in schools. The authorities concerned have been directed to take initiatives in this regard.   will also be mentioned in the books,” said minister of state for school education Deepak Joshi, adding that a sapling plantation drive has been initiated under the School Chale Hum campaign. 
 
 The decision to make river conservation a school lesson was taken under the state government’s action plan for Narmada after the conclusion of Narmada Seva Yatra in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 15. Nearly every department has been roped in for the mission and the education department has been asked to add lessons on conservation and promotion of rivers in school syllabus. Earlier this month, the chief minister had announced that Adi Shankaracharya life and lessons will be taught in  .
 
 The ‘Narmada work plan’ for the school education department says that students who live along the Narmada riverbanks should always be vigilant for its conservation. And students in districts adjoining the river should mark Narmada Jayanti by organising competitions and rallies for awareness every year.
 
 School education secretary Deepti Gaud Mukharji said river conservation is already in the syllabus. “We will incorporate it further. The directions for the school education department under the Narmada action plan will be followed,” she added. It’s not clear if the changes will come into effect in the next academic session. 
 
 The state government has defined action plans for various departments, including panchayat and rural development, municipal bodies, solar energy and school education, for conservation of river Narmada. Narmada knowledge centres will come up in 300 blocks of the state, and separate kunds will be created for immersion of idols and puja items. Toilets will be built to end open defecation on the riverbank.
 
 The aim is to make 362 villages along the Narmada open-defecation-free, banning use of soaps and detergents, developing Amarkantak as a smart city, setting up solar power plants, building crematoriums so that bodies are not put in the river, and conducting regular ‘health check-ups’ of river Narmada.
 
