Guwahati: The country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had described   as the Jewel of India. This northeastern state, under   rule for 15 years, is set to go the   in March this year putting to test the Gandhi charisma and the Modi magic which has been drawing hundreds of people to his meetings wherever he goes. 

 With neighbouring Assam falling to the BJP, ending 15 years of Congress rule last year, Sonia and Rahul would fight tooth and nail to keep Manipur. Led by veteran chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, the Congress has so far managed to stay afloat despite waves of violence and blockades hitting the state. Anti-incumbency is another factor the Congress will have to contend with. For Narendra Modi, who dreams of a Congress-mukt Bharat, winning the Vaishnavite-majority Manipur is essential for the launch of the ambitious Act East Policy.
 
 As the 60-member assembly goes to the polls, spread over two days on March 4 and 8, voters will have to choose between the two, one which has been in power and the other which is emerging as the only alternative to the Congress. Modi’s appeal has seen many tilting towards the saffron party. But that may not translate into a win for Modi as the biggest weakness of the BJP is that it has yet not been able to prop up a suitable chief ministerial candidate to take on the might of Ibobi Singh, considered to be a shrewd politician.
 
 The present term of the assembly expires on March 18 and the Election Commission set the ball rolling on Wednesday. Since the model code of conduct is in force, the EC now has to ensure vehicles move freely along national highways which have been under siege since November 1 by the United   Council (UNC).
 
 The notification for the first phase, which has 38 constituencies, will be issued on February 8 and the last date of nomination will be February 15. The date of scrutiny will be February 16 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature will be February 18. The notification for the second phase, which has 22 seats, will be issued on February 11. The last date for filing nominations will be February 18. The date of scrutiny will be February 20 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature will be February 22. Counting of votes for both the phases will be on March 11.
 
 Over 18 lakh voters will take part in this crucial election, being held amid UNC-sponsored blockades triggering scarcity of food, fuel and essential commodities. Anger over the blockade and Ibobi Singh in Naga areas will come to the fore as the key dates draw near. 
 
 The political master-stroke of Ibobi Singh in creating seven new districts on December 8 has helped the ruling Congress to a large extent beat the anti-incumbency wave. Besides managing to craft an image of a strong leader in the valley who can take on the NSCN (IM)’s greater Nagalim demand, Ibobi’s decision has brought the Kuki-chin tribes back into the Congress’s fold. The blockade is a result of this decision.
 
 Irom Sharmila Chanu, one of India’s most well-known human rights activists, and her newly formed party, the People’s Resurgence and Justice Alliance, may queer the pitch for the Congress as she has decided to contest against Ibobi Singh, who has been the chief minister for three terms.
 
 Though Chanu is not being considered as a serious player in the Manipur political arena, many human rights activists are likely to rally around her.
 
 
