NEW DELHI: Every day after school, Poonam rushes home in Dwarka, has lunch and then walks to a learning centre close by. There the daughter of a farm labourer sits with her sister and 25 others for two hours as they ask their teacher questions and get answers — through video conferencing.

 Poonam’s digital education has been facilitated by Plan India, which, seeing how government school students were often at a disadvantage against their counterparts from private schools when it came to  , started this initiative. The organisation also hopes that yoking technology to tutor girls will lessen the school dropout rate among them.
 
 “Now I am a better student than I was before”, claimed Poonam, who trails other students in academics in school. In collaboration with NGO Alamb, Plan India runs 15 such centres in Dwarka, Holambi Kalan and Rangpuri Pahadi and is part of Delhi government’s Chunauti 2018 scheme to improve the scholastic levels of weaker students.
 
 Bhagyashri Dengle, executive director, Plan India, said that the organisation “has been implementing programmes to engage, equip and enable girls of all ages to acquire adequate skills and knowledge to succeed in life”. Each of the 15 centres has a facilitator: an educator who helps manage the large digital board through which a teacher interacts simultaneously with children in all the centres.
 
 “We can ask questions to the teacher as many times as we want. Also, the screen is colourful and it is fun studying like this,” said 15-year-old Rekha, a Class XI student. Confirming this, Sajjad Hussain, programme manager at Alamb, said, “We use digital teaching because it is more interactive and allows for two-way questions and answers.”
 
 Hussain disclosed that the toughest part of the programme was sensitising parents to the importance of education for girls. “If was only after my mother visited the centre and saw the classes that she permitted me to study here,” said Rekha of her single mother. To help parents overcome their inhibitions, Alamb has held community programmes and organised field visits so they understand the benefits of sending their daughters to these unique coaching centres.
 
 Then as Rehana pointed out, the girls also spread word about the digital centres, rallying a number of similarly placed friends. Rehana, daughter of a rickshaw puller, has been studying at a centre for more than a year and exults, “Here I am, also learning what other girls learn at tuition classes.”
 
 Hussain said that all facilitators hold BEd degrees or are retired school teachers. They are well-versed in teaching methodology and are able to understand the children’s sensibilities. Some of them are pleased to be working at the centres. Priya Singh, for instance, earlier taught at a government school where there was no scope for teaching through digital methods “even though there were computers there”.
 
 Around 400 girls actively attend classes in the different centres. “Over 1,822 students have graduated from our programme, and their school education has improved,” claimed a member.
 
