JAIPUR: Six hundred more   will be converted into   (PHC) in the state. The   are amalgamation of allopathy, yoga and Ayurveda. Patients get all such facilities are provided to the patients under one roof.

 Officials said that the model PHCs inaugurated in all 295 blocks of the state on August 15 last year have received good response. The registration at outpatient department has increased by 28% in past seven months in the existing model PHCs.
 
 Also, officials pointed out institutional deliveries ( ) have increased by 5% in the model PHCs. 
 
 Considering it as an achievement, the health department has planned to convert 600 more PHCs into model PHCs in two different phases.
 
 Health minister Kalicharan Saraf said that they will take up 287 PHCs in June and 313 will be taken up in September for converting them into model PHCs.
 
 The model PHCs looks different as they are painted in pink colour. Even healthcare staff will wear Pink uniform in all such model PHCs of the state.
 
 Saraf said that all model PHCs have facilities for maternal care, antenatal check-ups, post-partum care and also there are trained doctors to provide treatment to pregnant women. Besides, model PHCs do not have shortage of medicines.
 
 However, at the model PHCs one would see medicinal plants. There are proper arrangements have been made for watering ayurveda plants and proper soil maintenance.
 
 In Jaipur, the nearest model PHC is situated in Amber block that has been developed in Jahota. 
 
 The look of model PHC is different from ordinary PHCs. To give it a beautiful look, the officials have painted the walls of building with pink colour. Also, for convenience of the patients and visitors, they have clearly mentioned PHC timings, logo of service being provided at PHC and map of the PHC. 
 
 Besides, the staff including one medical officer, two GNMs (staff nurse), one ANM, one pharmacist, one lab technician, one lady health volunteer, one AYUSH doctor, computer operator are deployed at model PHCs. Also, there is a facility of invertor battery back-up, RO clean drinking water, radiant warmer, warming lamp and facilities for maternal care.
 
