Nagpur: Around 5.35 lakh property taxpayers have something to cheer about and also to worry. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) general body on Thursday passed a resolution directing the administration not to recover the difference in property tax amount of the last two financial years in the current fiscal. At the same time, the proposal to introduce new tax — Tree Cess of 1% — was approved. The hike will reflect in the property tax. TOI had run several stories from February 2016 to April this year pointing out the against-the-rule recovery of difference and the burden on tax payers. Former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke tabled a proposal before the general body that the NMC should not recover property tax with retrospective effect. No discussions were held as opposition corporators were protesting over other issues. Later, mayor Nanda Jichkar and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said that the resolution has been passed. Datke said the decision will benefit taxpayers a great extent. “NMC implemented the new property tax system based on ready reckoner and rent chart from April 1, 2015 and recovered property tax of 2015-16 and 2016-17 as per old system. But it cannot be done as per provisions in the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act,” he said. Had the arrears been recovered, the property tax would have increased by two-three times. Eg. Those paying a tax of Rs1,000 per annum would now have to pay Rs3000 as per new tax model. Plus, he would have had to shell out Rs4000 — Rs2000 each for 2015-16 and 2016-17 from this financial year. The NMC was at fault as it had failed to calculate property tax as per the new system in the last two years. The re-assessment/revaluation drive kicked-off in last fiscal is yet be to completed. The latest decision will also benefit the taxpayers whose tax went up in the revaluation. Joshi and assistant commissioner Milind Meshram also said that the property tax in the new system is being calculated as per ready reckoner value of 2013-14. This also works in favour of the taxpayer as the ready reckoner value has increased to some extent in the last four years and, therefore, the tax will be less. The general body approved the proposal of garden department to levy 1% tree cess in property tax for development of greenery in the city. As the demand notes are yet to distributed, the cess is likely to be reflect from the bill in the current fiscal.