By
 

 Something really doesn’t add up about the road-widening work on   While we knew that a significant number of trees were going to be cut for this project (which also makes way for a down ramp for the  ), the exact number, however, is the issue here. While the   has pegged it at 112 – for the stretch between   and Doordarshan Kendra – a ground survey revealed there were 892 trees!
 
 This huge mismatch between what is being claimed and what ‘is’, has raised some important questions, including whether the BBMP is trying to deliberately mislead people, fearing opposition. There is also the question of whether it would only be the trees along the existing road that will be cut or will the trees within the palace compound also have to go.
 
 Also, what about the trees that fall in the remaining project route – between Doordarshan Kendra and Cantonment Railway Station? Why hasn’t the BBMP mentioned the trees that will have to be cut on this stretch?
 
 Supporting the dubiousness of BBMP’s claim, several trees within the palace compound that do not come within the widening area have also been marked with numbers. However, neither the people on ground nor the activists have any clue on who marked these trees.
 
 Chandrashekhar, a security personnel at one of the gates of Palace Grounds, said: “On several occasions over the last few months, I have seen people walking in to remove numbers etched on tree trunks and replace them with new ones.”
 
 While a few trees have been marked afresh, marks and numbers on some other trees have been erased randomly, leaving scars on the trunks. The mismatch between the actual number of trees and marking and re-marking of trees has yet again proved that the BBMP had made up its mind to axe as many trees as possible when it had initially conceptualised the plan to build the steel flyover.
 
 BM’s ground survey, along with environmentalist Vijay Nishanth (who has extensively worked along the stretch with researchers), on Sunday, revealed that a total of 289 trees inside the palace compound have also been marked for cutting. But what was unanswered by the BBMP was whether its 112 tree count also included any of these 289 trees that have been marked. If not, why are these trees marked for cutting and who was ordered to mark these trees? Similarly, the last-standing tree on the stretch bears the number 973 —exposing a messed up calculation by the civic body, which had pegged the count at 112.
 
 Assuming the figure of 973 trees (as marked by the BBMP previously) along the stretch, if the 289 trees inside the palace compound are eliminated, it would still leave a whopping 684 trees along the stretch. Researchers have listed out 892 trees along the same stretch and if the marked 289 were removed, there would be at least 603 trees on the ground. In both the cases, the actual count of trees on ground is way beyond the number that has been claimed by the BBMP officials in their project report.
 
 
 
 
 Even as the count of the actual number of trees that would be cut for the project still remains unclear, the authorities have made it even harder by randomly marking the trees.
 
 One only needs to take a walk along the project stretch to see that not all trees are marked for cutting. The tall ones with slender trunks have been left out, but the ones with massive girth have been carefully picked up and marked for axing.
 
 Environmental activists have alleged that the BBMP may have chosen to mark only the big ones, assuming that it would only bring down the tree numbers, as there will be less opposition for the project.
 
