AGRA: After installing energy efficient light emitting diode (LED) street lamps,   has managed to cut down on both power consumption for illuminating city roads by 400 kilowatt and also reduce monthly bills by more than Rs 14 lakh a month. 

 It is estimated that after replacing all old street lights,   will be able to save over Rs 1 crore a per month on electricity bills.
  
 The   (AMC) under a pilot project had replaced 2,000 old sodium lights with LEDs.
  
 Last year, the   took a decision to replace all non functional and old street lights with LEDs. The move was aimed at ensuring better illumination along with saving energy. At that time, it was mandatory to install ‘ISI marked’ LED bulbs, which were expensive. It took AMC officials six months
 to sort out the matter. 
 
 Finally, after securing approval of the state government, AMC had started working towards replacing of non functional high-pressured sodium (HPS) or Halogen streetlights with LED lamps. According to AMC officials, in first phase 2,000   have been installed at crucial points in the city. This has resulted in drop in power consumption by 400 kW a month.
  
 According to a senior AMC administration official, after installation of LEDs, the power consumption on street lighting has reduced to 6,100 kW per month as against 6,500 kW earlier. This has resulted in per month saving of Rs 14.4 lakh on electricity bills. AMC pays a fixed monthly charge of Rs 3,600 per kW.
  
 At present, AMC is responsible for maintaining 38,567 street lights in the city. According to officials, before installation of 2,000 LED lamps, the civic body used to pay Rs 2.34 crore a month to the local distribution company for streetlighting. On the basis of the outcome of the first phase, after replacement of old lights with LEDs in the entire city, electricity bills will reduced by up to 50%.
  
 But now, the work in this regard will not be done by the civic body. Following a directive by the Centre, the state government last month ordered all municipal corporations to entrust the task of installing LEDs to Energy Efficient Service Limited (EESL), a joint venture company of PSUs of the ministry of power, Government of India. Sources said the installation of LED street lamps in a larger part of city is likely to get delayed due to the government order. 
  
 Manoj Prabhat, AMC executive engineer (electrical), said, “The first phase of installation of LED streetlights has resulted in significant reduction in power consumption. Work ahead in this regard will be done by ESSL for which we have sought a proposal from them and issued a reminder to the company on September 21.” 
 
