PATNA: National Institute of Technology, Patna ( ) will give another chance to JEE (Advanced) qualifiers with low rankings and even those who had only cleared the JEE Main 2017 to bag a seat in the premier institute. The decision was taken as 104 out of 577 seats remained vacant after the completion of 7th JoSAA ( ) Counselling Seat Allotment and admission process.

 The special round to fill up the vacant seats will begin on Saturday (July 29). The admissions will take place on July 31 and the new session will begin from August first week. Last year, 70 seats remained vacant in various undergraduate engineering courses, including electrical, electronic, mechanical, computer, civil and architectural programme.
 
 Dean (student welfare) Prof Prakash Chandra told this correspondent on Friday that it is the first time the institute is giving a chance to candidates for admission after the process ended. “Students who didn’t qualify JEE Advanced can also apply for admission. But there are several criteria that they must fulfil. For the general and   category students, the total pass percentage in Class XII should not be less than 75% whereas for SC/ST, minimum 65% is required. Students who completed their intermediate last year can also apply for admission,” he said. 
 
 Sources said the main reason of so many seats remaining vacant is the poor result of Class XII exam of   (BSEB) this year. Many students who take admissions are from rural areas. This year, 65% students failed in intermediate exams conducted by BSEB. 
 
 “No withdrawal of admission will be allowed in this round. We hope no seats remain vacant. For accepting the seats, the general and OBC category students have to pay a fee of Rs45,000 whereas   and ST category students have to pay Rs20,000,” said Prakash.
 
 “The registration form will be filled on the institute’s premises. Students must bring the required documents. Those who have already filled the registration form but were not selected at the counselling session or couldn’t turn up on the admission day are also welcomed for the admission on July 31,” he said.
 
 Sources said thousands of seats remain vacant every year at the IITs and NITs. Despite conducting counselling in many phases for IITs and NITs admission, around 3,000 seats across the technical institutes remained vacant in 2016. Keeping in view the increasing number of vacancies, the Union HRD ministry decided to fill up the seats and told the heads of the institutes in October 2016 to conduct counselling till no seat remained vacant. 
 
