IMPHAL: After 15 years of being in power,   has emerged as the only Congress chief minister to be able to resist the   that has swept away the   from power in most parts of the country. 

 Holding fort against the behemoth that has sworn to a ' ,   against anti-incumbency and the Prime Minister's direct attack on him and helped Congress emerge as the single largest party with 28 seats in the 60-member assembly. He now needs three more members to get to the majority figure of 31.
 
 The chief minister was, however, unavailable for comment and is now huddled with top Congress leaders in his official bungalow. Ibobi had earlier said the election would be a referendum on the hills-valley unity and that Congress would win 10 of the 20 seats in the hills. Congress bagged nine seats in the hills, including four of the 11 Naga-controlled seats. The party has won seats from all parts of the state representing different communities.
 
 He had even said central BJP leaders, including Modi and Rajnath Singh, had visited the state a total of 90 times for the election campaign. Congress, on the other hand, had banked entirely on Ibobi to lead its campaign. "We told the party high command that we will manage the election ourselves. We sought AICC vice-present Rahul Gandhiji's service only after the PM joined the campaign," he had said on polling day.
 
 The Gandhi family had reposed its faith in him and given him a free hand to lead the campaign. Ibobi has not let the Gandhis down. He effectively countered the Modi wave and kept the Congress flag flying by bringing the party in a position where it can cobble up a simple majority. In the 2002 election, Congress had won only 20 seats, but had managed to form the government. This time, too, Ibobi hopes to use his skills to remain in power.
 
 During the campaign, the issues that kept coming up were the Naga Framework Agreement, the economic blockade and corruption. For each issue, Ibobi put up a tough fight.
 
 Ibobi took the calculated risk of creating seven new districts as the anti-incumbency factor was working against him and BJP was coming up strongly. Though the move displeased the UNC, there are many Nagas who are part of the new districts. He also gained Kuki support with his decision.
 
 The protection of Manipur's territorial integrity is an emotional issue for the Vaishnavite Meiteis and gained significance in the backdrop of NSCN (I-M) demand for a 'Greater Nagaland', which includes Naga-inhabited areas of Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Ibobi successfully challenged Modi by demanding the disclosure of the Framework Agreement signed between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) in 2015. "Despite Modi's assurance that the Naga agreement did not contain anything that can hurt Manipur's boundary, the CM succeeded in keeping the issue in focus till the end," said MPCC secretary Sashikanta Potsangbam.
 
 When it came to the ongoing economic blockade called by the United Naga Council, he put BJP on the backfoot by questioning the Centre's sincerity in convincing the NSCN (I-M), which was openly backing the UNC. The UNC had called the blockade on November 1 last year to protest creation of new districts.
 
 When BJP levelled charges of the chief minister being "Mr Ten Percent", he hit back by asking BJP for proof. "Though Modi had charged his government of corruption, the CM effectively defended the allegations by asking BJP to furnish any proof or cases against him," said MPCC secretary Sashikanta Potsangbam. Congress workers said even the fact that the central BJP leadership felt the need to launch an attack was a sign of the threat Ibobi posed. M Subhas Singh, a state Congress secretary, said, "Modi is the country's PM. Ibobi is the CM of a tiny state. In Manipur's history, Ibobi is the first leader against whom the PM has launched an attack in an election campaign. Ibobi has now emerged as a national leader."
 
