Being Mahesh Sir,’ reads the T-shirt that tapers off into Ravindra Kadam’s narrow waist like a funnel. “Mahesh Sir” is Kadam’s Dombivli-based positivity guru and Kadam is a 38-year-old personal trainer displaced from his natural habitat five minutes ago. As the glassy gym of a stockholding firm in Navi Mumbai start filling, Kadam sits in the conference room next door. Turning his swivel chair to one side, the bodybuilder puts both his feet up in the air. “Eighty,” he says, lifting the right calf. “Twenty,” he says, lifting the left. Given his strict diet and workout regime, those figures should have been “sixty” and “forty”, the average strength distribution ratio of a bodybuilder’s lower half. But, under his monosyllabic answers and stilted swagger, this two-time   winner hides a lifetime of polio.

 Kadam was three when his Satara-based parents had dunked him in buckets of hot water to will sensation back into his left leg. At 19, he first felt those virus-weakened muscles shiver. “I still remember the date. August 16th, 1997,” says Kadam, about the day he started working out in a Parel gym, after being goaded by his uncle and his brother, a bodybuilding champion. Two years later, Kadam enrolled in the “open” category at a district-level bodybuilding championship and went on to win several medals till 2006 after which he took a break from the expensive sport to focus on his career. Today, ten years later, the fitness trainer is ready to drop his pants and don a serial number on his crotch again. “I want to be Mr World,” he says. His first step towards that would be to participate in the Indian Bodybuilding Federation’s (IBBF) 17th Junior Masters championship in Indore this weekend.
 
 He is one of the four physically challenged participants from Maharashtra in the segment, for which over 40   athletes from all over India will congregate for two days. This event where the prize money has grown from Rs 5,000 in 2009 to the present Rs 50,000, speaks to bloating interest in the spectator sport. Not only has the number of bodybuilders with leg impediments from accidents or medical conditions, doubled in eight years but also more organisers are inserting this category in their shows, spawning avenues and cash prizes. For instance, Belgaum’s Satish Sugars Classic recently gifted the physically challenged gold medallist Rs 75,000 while Pune’s Swayambhu Shree boasted prize money of Rs 1 lakh. In part, this spurt has to do with the lure of international platforms since last year. “These athletes inspire others with disabilities to take up the sport,” says Chetan Pat-hare, general secretary, IBBF.
 
 While a medal opens up government jobs for regular athletes, the most a disabled champion can hope for is credibility in the fitness space or a resume frill in a private job application. Still, they persist, to find retribution for their weakness. Sion’s Inder Rao, 26 recalls doctors dissuading him from working out. “They said it will permanently damage the structure of the leg,” says the polio victim. But for Rao, the gym seemed like the only legitimate escape from bullying. Rao avoided socialising and dropped out of engineering college. In 2010, he joined a gym with his father’s permission.
 
 Inevitably, their fitness journey starts with pain. After an elaborate trial-and-error that saw Rao writhing for the first few days, he evolved a fitness regime that puts minimal pressure on his right leg. “I do most of my workout in the sitting position,” says Rao. Today, 11 medals and four certificate courses later, Rao trains ten physically-challenged clients and is now ready for another national contest. The prize money isn’t enough to cover the expenses for these musclemen who spend Rs 600 per day on chicken, eggs and multivitamins. However, rewards come in the form of standing ovation and poignant comments. At times, attention from women online, who Rao doesn’t indulge. “They don’t seem to like me when they see the full picture,” he says. 
 
 Not only has the number of bodybuilders with leg impediments from accidents or medical conditions, doubled in eight years but more organisers are inserting this category in their shows 
 
 
