PATNA: Chief minister   on Thursday expressed displeasure over the franchisee model of   network in Bihar and described it as the reason for delay in   work in the state.
 
  “The power distribution companies (discoms)’ franchisees have failed to deliver. They are ineffective, in my opinion. The state government wants to get rid of them,” Nitish said while laying the stone, commissioning and inaugurating schemes worth Rs 2650.51crore of the energy department from the CM secretariat.
  
  The schemes included construction of grid and power sub-station, laying of new 33KV, 11KV and low-tension lines, sub-divisional control room-cum-customer facilitation centre and rural electrification, among others.
  
  Sources said the power distribution franchisee system was introduced in the state around five years ago. The franchisees are involved in distribution as well as billing operations of the discoms.
  
  A large number of consumers have complained about faulty electricity bills, power cuts etc in the areas where the franchisee system is in place, an enery official admitted, adding these franchisees were supposed to make investments to improve services and power distribution network besides carrying out electrification of villages.
  
  Nitish iterated all villages and habitations in the state would be connected with electricity by the end of this year under the state government’s ‘Saat Nischay’ initiative. He claimed only 633 villages were left to be electrified.
  
  The state government has allocated funds to the tune of Rs 1896 crore for providing electricity to all APL families under the CM’s ‘Saat Nischay’ initiative. The electrification work confined to rural areas is slated to be completed over a period of two years.
  
  According to sources, around 48 lakh APL families in Bihar do not have electricity connections. According to the census in 2011, only 30.9 lakh households, comprising only 6.1% of the state’s population of 10.4 crore, had access to electricity.
  
  Nitish praised the energy department for implementing zero-subsidy tariff petition from 2017-18, which was appreciated at the national conference of state energy ministers in New Delhi recently.
  
  “A tariff structure with zero subsidy makes the exact cost of power supply known to the government as well as power consumers. The state government is providing subsidy separately to the consumers and the discoms will be given extra funds for improving the distribution efficiency. Such a zero-subsidy tariff has been adopted for the first time in the country,” Nitish said.
  
  Enumerating the state’s achievements in the energy sector, Nitish said the number of grid sub-stations in the state increased from 45 in 2005-06 to 112 now. Similarly, the evacuation capacity of the state increased from 1000MW to 7000MW now.
  
  The CM also urged the state energy department to launch an   campaign.
