MUMBAI: Chief minister   announced an inquiry into housing minister  's clearance of an irregular SRA proposal at Tardeo's MP Mill compound in the state assembly on Monday, after the opposition cornered him using TOI's expose of the case. Mehta admitted on the floor of the assembly that he had in fact not informed Fadnavis about the SRA proposal, even though he had noted so clearly on the file while permitting it.

 "The minister has told me he meant to write the chief minister "should be informed". I am satisfied with his explanation but in the interest of transparency, I agree to a full inquiry. I will consult the opposition about its terms," Fadnavis said. The opposition has demanded a judicial probe.
 
 TOI's report on July 12 revealed how Mehta had permitted an SRA proposal that allowed extra building rights granted to slumdwellers at the MP Mill compound near Imperial Towers to be transferred to a scheme for project-affected (PAP) people. The move violated development control norms which have no provision for benefit rights granted to eligible slumdwellers to be withdrawn or transferred. The decision would have generated additional building rights worth over Rs 500 crore to be sold on the open market for the developer, S D Corporation.
 
 Mehta had sanctioned the proposal on June 21 despite objections raised by the housing department that he heads. His noting on the file said, “Proposal should take General Body Resolution (GBR) of society. The government will get PAPs. The Chief Minister has been informed.This is being permitted on accepting the PAPs.“ In the assembly, Mehta backtracked completely and admitted he had not informed Fadnavis. “I had gone to meet the CM with a bundle of files. I did not realise that the MP Mill Compound file was not in the bundle. Later I wrote on the file that the chief minister has been informed. It was only the next day that the department informed me that this specific file was not discussed since it was not there with me that day,“ he claimed.
 
 Mehta struggled to explain his actions and then finally told the opposition, “You cannot question my morality. I am ready to face any inquiry.“ He tried to push the blame on the opposition by saying the Congress-NCP government had introduced the policy to allow extension of SRA tenements to generate more building rights for developers.
 
 Fadnavis pointed out that he had stayed the proposal immediately. “I called for the file and realized this was not permissible.No final decision had been taken so I stayed it immediately. Concessions cannot be granted in one case but should follow an overall policy ,“ the CM said.
 
 The issue was raised in the house by former chief minister   of the Congress and NCP leader  .
 
 Reacting to announcement of the inquiry , Chavan said, “This is not good enough. Mehta should be removed as housing minister.The government dropped then agriculture minister Eknath Khadse as he faced an inquiry .Why is it protecting Mehta?“ Patil also said Fadnavis needed to act against Mehta. “If Mehta wrote your name on the file without permission, then what action are you going to take against him? What does this say about your lack of control over your ministers and the government's lack of transparency?“ he asked.
 
 What the minister had earlier told TOI
 
 Prakash Mehta had told TOI on July 11that the issued had been discussed with the CM and denied any knowledge of the housing department's objections even though he had signed on its note. “The developer had already built the free sale area.If the slum society did not want more area, at least the state should get a PAP tenement out of this,“ said Mehta. “I don't recall any objection from the housing department. In any case this can only move ahead after getting a general body resolution from the slumdwellers.“
 
