CUNCOLIM:   are on course to defend the All-India invitational   tournament they won spectacularly last year at home.
  Despite importing an entirely new team – this time from Haryana – hosts Cuncolim Union braved the odds to upset last year’s finalists   17-25, 25-18, 25-17, 25-12 and seal a spot in the final on Friday.
  They will now take on the might of former national champions ONGC, Dehradun, who easily accounted for Haryana Police 25-22, 25-21, 25-12. The final, a repeat of the opening day’s battle where   won a tough five-setter, will be played on Saturday.
  Cuncolim gave the home supporters plenty to cheer but at the start there were doubts whether the hosts had the wherewithal to overcome a stiff challenge from the experienced Punjab Police. In the opening set, Punjab hardly allowed Cuncolim to play their natural game with Rajmir Singh and Gurumritpal Singh putting up such a deadly block that hardly allowed anything to pass.
  Cuncolim’s star player, Rohit Kumar, was a pale shadow of his former self as his spikes were all blocked by Punjab and the visitors accumulated points with ease through India spiker Gurinder Singh, who celebrated his birthday on Friday. In the second set, however, once Cuncolim raced to a five-point lead at the start, there was no looking back.
  Large credit for Cuncolim’s stunning show – defeating Punjab below 15 points in the fourth set – should go to Sohan Singh who raised his game by a few notches. When Rohit was subdued, Sohan measured up to the challenge with some powerful spikes and timely blocks. Subham Singh was another fine performer, while setter Aman Kumar kept the opponents guessing. The same cannot be said about Punjab’s setters who kept shuffling but both lacked consistency.
  Earlier in the first semifinal, ONGC had no problem putting it across Haryana Police in straight sets. With Vinit Kumar in terrific form, Haryana Police found it difficult to contain the powerful spiker.
  Saturday’s final should be an interesting contest. ONGC will have the advantage, thanks to their opening day’s victory, but Cuncolim remain confident they can turn the tables if the crowd continues to throw their weight behind the hosts.
