Madurai: An abandoned mosque on the middle of an upcoming National Highways of India (NHAI) project in Sivaganga district shall be removed, with police assistance if necessary, the Madras high court has said.

 “It is a clear from the fact that the notice could not be served on the interested persons (of the mosque). In any event, if it is an impediment for laying of the National highways, it has to be necessarily removed. We, therefore, direct the deputy general manager cum project director of the NHAI and superintending engineer to remove the structure in two weeks from the receipt of a copy of order, “ said a division bench of justices K K Sasidharan and G R  .
 
 The bench also directed the Sivaganga district collector and superintendent of police to extend their assistance for carrying out the demolition work. If needed, sufficient police force shall be provided for carrying out the work of removal of the structure in question, it said.
 
 The bench gave this direction on a PIL filed by   south zone president  , and after hearing the response of deputy general manager cum project director   that the work in Manalur location had been hampered for a long time due to mosque.
 
 “Due to the mosque, the project is being stalled. Besides, there was no response to a representation given on July 15 last seeking action on it, “ petitioner's counsel K Neelamegam said. Additional government pleader T S   said it was originally a place of worship, but was no longer used by people and had become an abandoned one.
 
 The project director, in his counter, said considering the enormous increase in the vehicular population and to minimise the fatal accidents besides property loss owing to road accidents, the NHAI mandated to develop the National Highway 49 stretch and acquired land.
 
 A sum of Rs7.24 lakh compensation was awarded for the mosque building constructed on the government poromboke land. 
 
 Though the money was deposited in the joint bank account of revenue authority and NHAI in March 2014, no one had claimed it so far. 
 
 Thereafter, three persons claiming to be trustees of mosque, gave representation to the collector on October 5, 2015 seeking to change the alignment of the road project to avoid demolishing of mosque. There is no possibility to change the alignment, the project director said.
 
