UDHAMPUR: Amid multi- tiered security, Prime Minister   will today dedicate to the nation   on the  , making it operational for traffic. The new 10.8 kilometre   road tunnel is the longest highway tunnel in Asia A high alert has also been issued ahead of the Prime Minister's visit, even as vigilance at the border and at vital installations in J&K has been stepped up. "It is a matter of great pride for the people of Jammu and Kashmir that this great tunnel is being dedicated to the nation by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi - the most popular PM. It is dedicated to the nation in keeping with his call for a new India," Union Minister of State in PMO,   told reporters yesterday. Modi will also address a public rally at Battal Ballian in Udhampur district after inaugurating the tunnel. The tunnel will save fuel worth nearly Rs 99 crore a year. "Rs 27 lakh worth of fuel is likely to be saved per day," Singh said. The tunnel will reduce the travel time between the two state capitals of Jammu and Srinagar by two hours. The distance from Chenani and Nashri will now be 10.9 kms (between two ends of the tunnel), instead of the existing 41 kms. The Union Minister said that this tunnel is a game changer. "It is a revolution itself. It is a revolution to be watched and studied. It is a case study itself. It is a wonderful creation," he added. "The connectivity through this tunnel will decrease the time of journey by two hours. It is an alternative all weather route. It is an alternative to the highway which is closed at the time of snow and rains. It will boost trade and increase revenue in the state. It will also help boost tourism," Singh added. The security setup includes elaborate deployments, area domination, checkpoints and alertness in border areas and vigilance at vital installations in the region by various security agencies, a police officer said. Director General of Police S P Vaid has expressed satisfaction over security arrangements put in place by security agencies for Modi's visit. He said the Batal Ballian area and around the venue of the Prime Minister's rally was sealed and area has been fully sanitised. The BJP is expecting a huge turnout of people from various parts of the state for Modi's rally.
