CHENNAI: From a video cassette pusher to the boss of   two months ago, head of the AIADMK a month ago and stepping into the corridors of power at Fort St George in the coming days, V K Sasikala’s rise has been meteoric in the last three decades.

 A high school dropout from backwater Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district, Sasikala was introduced to Jayalalithaa in 1982 by the former’s husband M Natarajan, then a government public relations officer. Since then, she became a regular in Jayalalithaa’s house and the couple finally moved into it in 1988.
 
 But for brief periods in 1996 and 2012, when Jayalalithaa sent her out of No 81, Veda Nilayam, for anti-party activities, Sasikala had been staying with her. Even when her husband was thrown out of the house in 1990, she did not leave the place. When Jayalalithaa was hospitalised, she stood by her bed. After her death, Sasikala returned to Poes Garden and, as Jayalalithaa has not left any will behind, she continued to occupy the house that does not belong to her even today. And it is this house that she draws all her powers from and it is under the tutelage of Jayalalithaa that she learnt all the political manoeuvring that is now on display in abundant measure in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Sasikala may lack the charisma of her leader, but is not a novice in politics. As Jayalalithaa remained out of reach for the rest of the party leaders, Sasikala became the intermediary and with that her importance kept growing. She travelled with Jayalalithaa like an aide wherever she went, but carved out a constituency for herself within the AIADMK by recommending many for important party posts and for fielding in elections. O   himself was promoted by none other than Sasikala and her nephew T T V Dinakaran. Never, ever did Jayalalithaa promote Sasikala as her political heir, but the importance of Sasikala’s nominees kept growing in the party. Those investments are paying dividends now.
 
 To save her own place in Jayalalithaa’s house, Sasikala even disowned her husband and other family members. The relationship with Natarajan continues to be strained even today and he can reach out to her only through other members of the family.
 
 Sasikala placed her confidants (mostly from her OBC thevar community) in key posts in the government too whenever the party was in power. Only after 2012 did Jayalalithaa keep her out of administrative matters, as a fallout of the proximity some officials gained to the CM.
 
 Sasikala’s public image is that of an outsider trying to usurp power through the back door. Protests by AIADMK cadres and functionaries in some parts of the state in the wake of Jayalalithaa’s demise further harmed her image. That, however, did not influence the AIADMK legislature party a bit. Within hours of Panneerselvam taking over as chief minister, there had been clamour from within his cabinet that he hand over the mantle to Sasikala.
 
 
