Goa, nestled in the  , is blessed with an abundant   and jackfruits.

 Today, mangoes have been glorified no end (justifiably though to an extent), while jackfruits have been pushed to the backstage. But, until few decades ago, the jackfruit tree in the backyard was the family’s prized possession, and ripening of the fruit was much awaited.
 
 In Goa, a number of traditional delicacies are prepared from jackfruits. The flesh of this fruit is a good source of dietary fiber, which makes it easily digestible. It is considered to be an instant source of energy due to presence of electrolytes, besides being a source of various other nutrients.
 
 That is why, people in various parts of India use jackfruits while preparing chips, dessert, dosas, pancakes, puddings, idlis, appams, jams, even, tea-time snacks.
 
 In Goa, jackfruit is used to prepare the still-popular ‘phanasache dhonas’ (steamed rice cake flavoured with jackfruit pulp), and the phanasachi god bhakari is a delicacy popular even today in rural areas.
 
 Goa produces two popular varieties of jackfruit — a slightly hard inner flesh of the ripe fruit, which is known as ‘kapo phanas’, and the other variety; when the inner flesh of the ripe fruit is very soft is called ‘rasal phanas’.
 
 To prepare ‘godachi bhakar’, one needs the flesh from ‘rasal phanas’. After applying coconut oil on the hands to protect against the gummy sap inside the jackfruit, one has to cut the ripe jackfruit into two halves and separate the flesh of the fruit. This edible part is ground into pulp and roasted with par-boiled rice and palm jaggery until there’s a thick paste left. To this mixture, grated coconut, pieces of roasted groundnut, and cardamom are added. This entire concoction is then steamed for about half hour in pot or a cooker.
 
 After cooling the ‘godachi bhakar’ for a short time, it is ready to be served.   from Hankhane, Pernem, says, “We still relish the delicious ‘phansachi god-bhakar’, as a seasonal delicacy prepared as relief from the hot and humid climate.”
 
