NAGPUR: Due to its strained relations with Bank of India (BOI), the   had planned to transfer its   (FDs) worth over Rs200 crore to Yes Bank. However, after auditors raised objection, the   has now decided to drop the idea, albeit reluctantly, its officials said.

 Even before auditors raised objections, a section of NU officials had staunchly opposed the idea of roping in a private bank to replace a   like BOI. They had suggested that either another nationalized bank or a reputed and established player like HDFC or ICICI be roped in.
 
  (FAO) Rajesh Hiwase told TOI that auditors advised the university to desist from transferring deposits to a non-scheduled bank, keeping in mind complications that could arise in the future. “They cautioned us that   (CAG) may object to this and it would be better to stick with nationalized banks,” he said, asserting that the NU’s FDs were still with BOI.
 
 Surprisingly, the NU top brass was keen to ink a pact with Yes Bank, which is new as compared to other private banks in Nagpur. Despite opposition, NU went ahead by tying up with the bank for online transfer of fees for examinations and other expenses.
 
 Officials claimed that NU failed to invite proposals from other banks before finalizing Yes Bank for carrying on its transactions. None of the bank officials could be contacted for comments.
 
 Speaking to TOI, vice-chancellor SP Kane justified the move to tie up with the Yes Bank stating that it agreed to provide better services at almost no cost. “We had invited six banks and all of them explained about their services through presentations. Of them, we selected HDFC and Yes banks. But HDFC took time to respond and had various charges on the transactions. On the other hand, Yes Bank assured us that it would provide all net banking services without any charge,” he said.
 
 He also justified the move to transfer Rs200 crore FDs to Yes Bank stating that it was providing better interest rates as compared to BOI. “There’s nothing wrong in keeping the amount in that bank. They’re offering more interest, which would ultimately benefit the university,” he said.
 
 The VC said that NU deals with as many as seven banks for its transactions and therefore there was no question of favouring a particular one.
 
 NU officials, however, allege that private banks offered premium cards and other benefits to NU officials, besides regular services, that were available only to high-end customers. 
 
 They added that there was no progress in the ‘cheque scam’ where BOI had assured to refund Rs 32 lakh to NU, as it was not at fault. They said its flip-flop continued and BOI was yet to refund the amount, fraudulently withdrawn from NU’s accounts on forged cheques, even after a year.
 
