NEW DELHI: It could well be that you are breathing in air in your home that is of   than the air  . At the Air-O2-Thon, an international summit on air pollution, experts said on Wednesday that an integrated emission inventory with common standards was necessary for cities across the country to tackle the problem.

 While launching the second edition of Air-O2-thon, Ritesh Kumar Singh, joint secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change, said that the ministry was planning to double the number of monitoring stations across the country to improve air quality measuring standards. The ministry has also identified 100 cities to benchmark air quality standards.
 
 Experts at the meeting organised by Prospurs Pte Ltd and Indian Pollution Control Association (IPCA) cautioned that in households with poor indoor air quality, people are likely to feel irritation in their eyes, nose and throat with long term impact on the heart and lung. “The indoor air pollution levels may often be worse than those outside if there is no proper ventilation. People often don’t realise this and it is, therefore, more dangerous,” pointed out Radha Goyal, deputy director, IPCA. “One may not be safe even in an air-conditioned house because polluting particulate matter remain trapped.”
 
 Priyanka Kulshreshtha, assistant professor, Lady Irwin College, listed some of the sources of Indoor air pollution, including combustion appliances, building and decorative materials, carpets and furnishings with high volatile organic compounds and particulate matter trapped inside the room due to poor ventilation. “Carpets may often contain a lot of particulate matter and dust. Even your furniture may contain dust mites and particulate matter, while combustion sources also lead to high pollution levels indoors,” warned Kulshreshtha.
 
 She added the remedy was to ensure proper ventilation and to tackle the sources. Carpets and sofas should also be dry-cleaned regularly, she said. Experts believe a combined approach by all stakeholders was required to tackle the pollution levels, and awareness campaigns were the need of the hour to fight against both indoor and outdoor pollution.
 
 “Today both outdoor and indoor air qualities are areas of great concern. In India, indoor air quality is not monitored nor regulated and to tackle this problem, we need a stakeholder-driven approach that requires a consultation and participating approach,” said Prasad Modak, president, Environmental Management Centre. “Events like this facilitate the establishment of a knowledge network that can aid in formulating policies and action plans against pollution.” 
 
 The organisers of Air-O2-Thon will prepare a recommendation document after the conference and present it to the ministries and government departments concerned.
 
