PATNA: Chief minister   on Saturday showered praise on the state’s people and officials for making  ,   and human chain formation — in support of prohibition — a success.
 
  Inaugurating the 23rd Patna Book Fair, organised by the Centre for Readership Development at Gandhi Maidan, the CM said, “People of Bihar are by nature hospitable. The way Sikhs from the country and abroad were welcomed during Prakashotsava, was unbelievable. The event has earned respect for people from Bihar living in Punjab,” he said.
  
  Nitish described the human chain formed on January 21 in support of liquor ban as historic. “Our state has a population of less than 12 crore people, and four crore of them participated in the human chain,” he added.
  
  As for Kalchakra Puja, he said, people from 92 countries participated in the puja at Bodh Gaya. “Grand arrangements were made for Kalchakra Puja as well,” the CM said, adding the state government has also planned mega celebrations to mark the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran ‘satyagrah’.
  
  Praising the organisers of Patna Book Fair, Nitish said his government was committed to restoring the intellectual past of the state by putting emphasis on learning and education. Institutes like  , Aryabhatta Knowledge University and  , among others, are signs of the government’s commitment to raise the standard of education in Bihar, he said.
  
  Admitting loopholes in the state’s education system, the CM said his government was trying hard to address the issue. “After the photograph of men scaling an exam centre wall in Vaishali went viral, the government acted tough against cheating. Use of unfair means has become a passé in exam halls in the state now,” he said.
  
  In an oblique reference to the topper scam that rocked the state last year, the CM said the government also did not spare the people who were tasked with conducting fair exams, but who indulged in malpractices.
  
  He said it was on the Bihar government’s initiative that the Centre decided to observe November 11, the birth anniversary of country’s first education minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, as ‘Shiksha Diwas’. “Bihar was first to observe November 11 as Shiksha Diwas,” he said. The CM also felicitated Madhubani painter and Padma Shri awardee Bahua Devi on the occasion.
  
  The book fair’s theme this year is ‘Skilled youth, progressive Bihar’. Binod Anupam, member of the organising committee, said this year’s ‘Sahitya Vidyapith’ award would go to Shankar Anand of Khagaria, ‘Rangmanch’ award to Shilpa Bharti of Muzaffarpur, painting award to Shail Kumari of Madhubani and best journalist award to Basant Kumar of Siwan.
  
  He said the first ‘Bihar Bharti Samman’ will be given to Ram Bhagwan Singh, who is promoting purchase of books a day before Saraswati Puja just as people buy   or silver articles or new utensils a day before Dhanteras.
  
  Meanwhile, the CM assured all help to Patna Book Fair organisers in making its 25th edition an international affair. When the organisers said the venue should be allotted a year before the event, the CM said it could be organised at the upcoming international convention centre. “Just move the file; I assure you of speedy processing,” he told the organisers.
