NEW DELHI: More than two and half months after a special court in Jaipur acquitted right wing activist Swami Aseemanand in the 2007 Ajmer blast case, the National Investigation Agency has decided not to challenge his acquittal after taking legal opinion and examining evidence and the judgement. 

  Director General Sharad Kumar signed on the decision two days ago after all the officials and legal experts of the agency opined that the “grounds cited by special judge   in his judgement for the acquittal of Aseemanand and 6 others are very strong” and that the agency “doesn’t have any other tenable evidence other than already presented in the court”. 
 
 Sharad Kumar told TOI: “It has been examined at all levels (in NIA) including the legal section and it has been decided that no purpose will be served in filing an appeal as the judgement has laid very strong grounds for acquittal. So, we are not challenging the acquittal.” 
 
 The court had primarily junked the confession of Swami Aseemanand recorded by the agencies in 2010, which was projected as the most credible evidence by NIA. According to sources, the court observed that Aseemanand’s confession was “tainted” as it was taken in police custody, hence not trustworthy.
 
 Aseemanand had later retracted his confession. Subsequently, the court had stated that the confession application on behalf of Aseemanand didn’t have his signature; instead the investigating officer and prosecutor had signed it. Sources in NIA said the entire judgement was analysed, as per procedure, by the public prosecutor, investigating officer, SP, DIG, IG, legal advisor and   and all of them reached a “consensus” that there is no need to appeal. 
 
 Two former RSS Pracharaks– Devendra Gupta and Bhavesh Patel - have been sentenced to life by the court while third convict   died during the trial. Aseemanand was acquitted on March 8 by the Jaipur court along with six others -Chandrashekhar Leve, Mukesh Vasani, Bharat Mohan Rateshwar, Lokesh Sharma, Mehul Kumar and Harshad Solanki. 
 
 Three other accused —Suresh Nair, Sandeep Dange and Ramchandra Kalsangra — are absconding. Swami Aseemanand has been named as the main accused in the 2007 Mecca   blasts in Hyderabad and Samjhuata train blast as well. Recently, he was granted bail in the Mecca Masjid blast case and NIA decided not to challenge the bail. Legal experts say since Aseemanand’s confession was treated as main evidence against him, his acquittal in the Ajmer case may provide him relief in other cases as well.
 
