PATNA: The   Teachers’ Association ( ) on Friday demanded a high-level probe into the alleged irregularities in promotion of some of the teachers related to the VIPs.

 Presiding over the general body meeting, PUTA president   expressed concern over the alleged pick and choose policy adopted by former PU vice-chancellor Y C Simhadri in according promotion to the teachers.
 
 PUTA members said the PU reply in response to the applications filed by some aggrieved teachers under the RTI indicates glaring discrepancies in the promotions under career advancement scheme. While the selection committee rejected some cases cleared by the screening committee without any rhyme or reason, it approved some without the screening committee’s clearance at the instance of the VC. The teachers were given promotion from the date of the selection committee meeting and not from the date of their eligibility. This would cause irreparable loss of promotional benefits and also affect their seniority, they alleged. 
 
 PUTA general secretary Anil Kumar said no uniform yardstick was adopted while deciding the teachers’ promotion. In some subjects, only teachers having postgraduate teaching experience were promoted while those working in colleges were left out. In other subjects, even college teachers were granted promotion. Some teachers of   were promoted as professors without having PG teaching experience, but some were denied promotion for lacking the same. As per the statutes, PG teaching experience is not mandatory for promotion, he said.
 
 “It is surprising that the last date for submission of applications by university teachers for their promotion was March 31, 2014, but the university did not take up the work of screening and promotion until November 2016 under pressure from some bureaucrats and politicians. VC Simhadri convened the selection committee meetings in a few subjects only and did not place the cases of all teachers before the committees. Even the cases cleared by the screening committee were ignored,” he said. 
 
 Furthermore, the cases of teachers, who had submitted their applications for promotion on the time but retired subsequently owing to the delay in the process, were not placed before the selection committee.
 
 The association demanded fresh meeting of the selection committee in all subjects so that the wrongs done in the past may be rectified and all pending cases of promotions be cleared.
 
 PUTA election on April 12
 
 The election to Patna University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) will be held on April 12. This was decided at the PUTA general body meeting on Friday. The last election was held on September 22, 2014. The association demanded immediate withdrawal of teachers’ suspension ordered by former PU vice-chancellor Y C Simhadri on flimsy grounds. 
 
