MUMBAI:Should abortion not be seen as an essential element of treatment for survivors of rape? 

 A day after a 10-year-old girl in Chandigarh was denied permission by the Supreme Court to medically terminate her 32-week pregnancy, discussions have set off among health rights activists and doctors.
 
 On Friday, the Supreme Court said it could not give permission for medical termination as it followed the medical report given by doctors of the Chandigarh-based Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research that medical termination would not be safe either for the girl or the foetus.
 
 Dr Samir Dalwai, president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, said, “Let a child not be considered a miniature adult and be dragged into the ambit of the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act meant for grownup women.” He began a   post with, “I think from a pediatrician and the child’s point of view... For an abused child, the principle of ‘always act in the best interest of the child’ applies.”
 
 Health activists say that the child was a victim of sexual violence and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act makes it mandatory for health providers to treat all health consequences of sexual violence, including provisions of psychological rehabilitaion. Padma Deosthali of NGO   said, “Survivors of sexual violence often reach late for abortion due to various reasons. They may not disclose sexual violence to anyone. She may not be aware that what happened to her is ‘rape’. She may not be aware that this is likely to cause a pregnancy. So, stigma and lack of awareness prevent her from reaching doctors immediately.” In such circumstance, it is essential for providers and facilities to recognize abortion as her right irrespective of gestational age, she added. They raised concerns about doctors not using provisions under Section 5 of MTP Act. “As per this section, pregnancy can be terminated at any stage if it causes harm or danger to a woman’s life, irrespective of the gestational age,” said Deosthali.
 
 Sangeeta Rege of Cehat said, “There should be a mechanism to monitor that such services are being provided to women immediately so that action is taken against erring doctors. Abortion is an essential element of the right to treatment for rape survivors. This is now clearly mandated by law in Criminal Law (Amendment) Act 2013 and Pocso.”
 
 Dr   B, a gynaecologist with Rural Women’s Social Education Centre in   district, Tamil Nadu, said, “Pregnancy in a child is dangerous for her physical and mental health. According to the  , there is even danger to life. While a girl who has undergone precocious puberty is capable of getting pregnant, her body is not ready for delivery.”
 
 This is also failure of the social and legal system. “Another four or five or more weeks could adversely affect the 10-yearold’s health,” Dr Shri added.
 
