NEW DELHI: Jacinta was just a week away from landing her dream job when she fell out of her auto while   off   and died of severe head injuries a little over a week later. 

 The 25-year-old had shifted to Gurgaon and was on her way to meet a friend when she fell prey to the snatchers. Jacinta belonged to Manipur and was shortly to shift to Delhi to stay with a friend. She had moved here against the wishes of her family and was training to be a chef. Since she had come to Delhi after over 10 years, a childhood friend wanted to meet at Connaught Place. Her parents in Manipur were the last ones she contacted before the incident took place.
 
 A senior police officer said the girl’s aunt had dropped her to Chirag Delhi on August 8, from where she boarded an auto to go up to Hauz Khas Metro station. The girl was crossing a flyover opposite Panchsheel Club around 8.45 pm when three men, one of whom was a juvenile, started driving parallel to the auto she was in. In the next two minutes, the juvenile sitting in the centre stretched his arm into the auto and tried snatching Jacinta’s black bag. 
 
 She clutched her bag tightly and, in the tussle for the bag, fell off the auto and onto the byroad. The auto driver was driving fast and Jacinta fell on the divider and hurt her head. 
 
 The auto driver immediately stopped and put her back into his vehicle while the assailants fled. Meanwhile, a passerby made a PCR call around 8.55 pm, soon after which a team rushed to the spot and the woman was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre and admitted to its ICU.
 
 Her parents and the relatives with whom she had been staying in Guragon were informed. But a week after the incident, she had to be put on a ventilator. Two days later, doctors pronounced her dead due to severe head injuries.
 
 “A case under IPC Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered and a team was formed to nab the accused,” a senior police officer said.
 
 CCTV footage of the area was scanned and, based on the clues the footage threw up, Naresh Kumar (22) and Tinku (23) were arrested and a juvenile was apprehended. They confessed their involvement in the case, police said.
 
 
