HYDERABAD:  , a water sump running deeper than the foundation, and excessive load on the foundation led to the collapse of the multi-storied building at Nanakramguda on December 8, 2016.

 A team of civil engineers from   (JNTU), Hyderabad, headed by professor N V Ramana Rao, which was asked by the state government to determine the causes of the building collapse, has submitted its final report to  . 
 
 The building was located at Lodha Basthi in Nanakramguda and collapsed last year, killing 11 people and injuring two others.
 
 “The building collapsed due to a weak supporting structure coupled with inadequate design and excessive load on column and foundation that caused sudden failure,” corporation commissioner B   told TOI on Saturday.
 
 The report said the building foundation arrangement was highly irregular and asymmetrical, leading to further instability. A borewell located in the foundation of the building and all the concrete footings were close to one another and irregular, the report revealed.
 
 “The structure was originally designed only as ground plus three floors. But the builder Satyanarayana Singh raised stilts and five upper floors and a penthouse. Even the construction was not as per the structural drawing given by the consultant for G+ 3 floors,” Rao said. The team members, who examined the site, said a deep sump was located between two back columns of the building. The sump was deeper than the foundation of adjacent column, leading to foundation instability.
 
 While one column and plinth beams were missing, adding to the instability of the collapsed building, there was inadequate reinforcement in all columns and the deficiency of reinforcement was nearly 60% of the existing load. The sizes of the columns were inadequate, the report said.
 
 Regarding the location of the collapsed building, the report said it was built very close to another building without any setback. This was also one of the reasons for excessive load on the foundation. “There was a deep excavation adjacent to the building and as per rules, a minimum distance of 4m should be maintained between the building line and excavation but this was violated. However, there were no signs that the excavation caused the collapse,” a member of the team said.
 
 
