NEW DELHI: In a rare instance where it revisited its ruling, the   on Thursday ordered real estate tycoon   to serve seven more months in prison for the Uphaar fire tragedy. This comes over a year after it had let him off along with his brother,  , once they served a few months in prison.

 Sushil was spared this time because of old age and ailments.
 
 In its earlier order, the apex court had termed the few months the   were in jail as adequate punishment for the negligence that turned Delhi’s Uphaar movie hall into a blazing fire trap that left 59 persons dead in 1997.
 
 The case has had a chequered history in courts. The trial court had convicted Sushil and Gopal for negligence leading to the tragedy and asked them to serve two years in jail each. The Delhi high court then reduced this to one-year imprisonment.
 
 On March 5, 2014, an SC bench of Justices T S Thakur and G S Mishra upheld their conviction. Justice Thakur agreed with the HC decision to reduce the imprisonment to one year. But Justice Mishra said two-year prison term was justified. However, she said the jail term could be reduced to one year if the Ansals paid Rs 50 crore each for construction of a Rs 100 crore trauma centre in Dwarka.
 
 On August 19, 2015, a bench of Justices A R Dave, Kurian Joseph and Adarsh K Goel rejected the CBI's plea for two-year jail terms intended to send a message that the rich and influential cannot evade the rigour of penal law. The bench let off the   with the period of imprisonment already undergone as just punishment provided they paid Rs 30 crore each to Delhi government to set up a Rs 60 crore trauma centre.
 
 An impassioned plea by Association of Victims of   (AVUT) led by   for review of the sentence persuaded the court to hear arguments afresh. On Thursday, a bench of Justices Ranjan Gogoi, Kurian Joseph and Adarsh Goel partially reviewed the August 19, 2015 judgment by a 2-1 verdict.
 
 While Justices Gogoi and Joseph directed only Gopal Ansal to serve seven months and 10 days more in prison to complete his one-year sentence, Justice Goel declined to entertain the review petition.
 
 The court by majority verdict said Sushil Ansal was shown leniency because of his old age and ailments, which was not the case with Gopal. While Sushil had undergone five months and 20 days' imprisonment, his brother had served a jail term of four months and 20 days. The court asked Gopal to surrender to authorities within four weeks to undergo the remaining part of his sentence.
 
 Justices Gogoi and Joseph ruled that the August 19, 2015 judgment directing the Ansals to deposit Rs 30 crore each would stand. Sushil and Gopal have already paid Rs 30 crore each.
 
 
