KOLKATA: After the 'no helmet-no fuel' policy for  , the state government is proposing a  . According to the proposal,   stations an   to only those vehicles that have  

 The proposal had been mooted a decade ago but could not be implemented following protests from the West Bengal Petroleum Dealers' Association (WBPDA). A notification was issued by the environment department in 2015 but stayed by the Calcutta high court after WBPDA successfully argued that they were retailers and not law enforcement agents.
 
 On Monday , environment minister Sovan Chatterjee said the West Bengal Pollution Board (WBPCB) had sent a fresh 'no PUC-no fuel' proposal to the state government. The proposal was mooted to check runaway emission pollution by vehicles that spewed toxic fumes.
 
 Though getting vehicles checked for pollution every six months is mandatory , of the 25 lakh vehicles that ply in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA), only 5 lakh get their vehicles tested. Expressing concern over the rising air pollution, minister-mayor Sovan Chatterjee alleged a section of city's car owners and private transporters had been flouting norms. Citing the state's inadequate infrastructure to keep the flouters in check, Chatterjee said the proposal was aimed at increasing compliance by linking fuel sale to PUC certificates.
 
 Chatterjee also said the environment department had decided to increase the number of auto emission testing centres in the city . Currently , there are 70 centres where tailpipe emission can be tested. The plan is to hike the count to 139. The environment department plans to tie up with the transport department for use of major bus depots as new testing centres.
 
 The proposal, though, is likely to meet with resistance from fuel station operators.Unlike the   rule, they are unwilling to take on the role of monitoring PUC certificates. WBPDA president Tushar Kanti Sen said the Calcutta high court order had clearly ruled against the government move.
 
 “The government cannot pass on the role and responsibility of the police on to petroleum dealers. There are practical problems. The transaction time per customer will go up if we have to check PUC certificates before dispensing fuel. Moreover, we cannot force any motorist to furnish a PUC certificate and can be taken to court,“ Sen argued.
 
