GURUGRAM: A nine-month-old girl’s   into two when a wooden door at her daycare centre swung shut with her hand still on the doorframe. The baby was coming out of the room in the arms of her carer when the upper portion of finger got severed.

 This happened last Friday at   inside the   hospital campus at  , an expensive daycare centre with three branches in Gurgaon that charges Rs 16,000 a month. On Monday, Anaya’s mother Bhawna revealed the horror she went through in a social media post, accusing the daycare centre of negligence. “This is the worst nightmare which no parents should go through and right now we are going through hell,” she said. “It is horrible to see my little girl going through so much pain at such an age.”
 
 A surgery was performed the same day at Medanta to stitch Anaya’s finger back into place. She is now home but could need several more surgeries, beginning later this week. “She will undergo another surgery on Thursday and this procedure will get repeated maybe twice every week for six weeks. Doctors will do their best,” said a source at Medanta.
 
 The accident happened around 10.30 am when the carer and Anaya were coming out of the diaper-changing room. Bhawna said she had demanded CCTV footage to determine how this happened and the degree of the carer’s negligence but Intellitots had told her they did not have any. “The daycare founders gave an extremely lame response. I was told the CCTV got accidentally unplugged and there is no footage available of the accident. They are clearly hiding the real incident and now withholding evidence,” said Bhawna, who is a senior consultant with India’s leading software company. Anaya’s father Nikhil is country head at an international bank. They live in Regency Park at DLF 4.
 
 The parents also alleged doors of the diaper-changing room were unsuitable for a place like this. “How can the doors in infants’ toilets be so heavy and have sharp edges? The doors are made of hard wood with no clipping or padding to prevent any such accident,” said Bhawna.
 
 She said she had received a call from the centre, informing her of an “emergency”, around 11am on Friday, barely an hour after she had dropped Anaya to the centre, which takes care of nearly 50 other kids of working parents.
 
 Bhawna and Nikhil had put Anaya in Intellitots’ care in March. “I signed up for this daycare two months back after having been assured of hygiene, staff training , CCTV, fancy interiors and their commitment to the child’s wellbeing,” Bhawna wrote in her social media post. “Little did I know this place would become the originator of agony for my little baby. As I write this post, my baby lies beside me with her left arm immobilised and her left hand ring finger amputated as the Intellitots maid apparently shut the door on my daughter while changing the diaper… No one imagine what it was to see her screaming and all in blood with her finger piece separated (sic).”
 
 The child had undergone a surgery at Medanta (a private hospital) on Friday. “She will undergo another surgery on Thursday and this procedure will get repeated maybe twice every week for six weeks. Doctors will do their best to treat the patient,” said sources in the hospital.
 
 Shakuntala Dhull, chairperson of Gurgaon’s Child Welfare Committee, said, “Strict action can be taken against the daycare centre for negligence. If required, an FIR can also be filed against owners of the daycare. However, parents have to file a written complaint with us.” The parents said they would go the police soon. “I will take all necessary measures for justice to be done,” said Bhawna.
 
 Pooja, co-founder of Intellitots, said, “We deeply regret the unfortunate accident involving a child that occurred at one of our centres. Our team reacted immediately and took the injured child to the emergency room where she was treated in the guidance of one of the most competent doctors in NCR. Thankfully the child and her finger is safe. We are currently investigating the incident and are committed to taking corrective measures. Intellitots stands in support of the parents and family and we are extending all possible support to the child. We wish the child a speedy recovery.”
 
 Fortis, too, put out a late statement, saying Intellitots had rented out a part of its facility to run a crèche.   has strict protocols and processes to deal with every sentinel event and this incident, even though it involves a third party, will be dealt with the same level of severity. We have started an inquiry and served a show-cause notice to the vendor,” said a spokesperson.
 
 
