MUMBAI: State-run Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority ( ) will soon enter into joint venture partnership with private developers and land owners to meet the target of constructing 20 lakh affordable houses before 2020.

 “We have drafted guidelines for the proposed policy. An individual or a corporate entity with land for housing development can approach Mhada for development of affordable housing on joint venture basis. It will be the first-of-its-kind experiment for the PM’s affordable housing project,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI.
 
 The total contribution of private partner towards the joint venture will be the cost of land as ascertained from annual statement of rates, while Mh-ada’s contribution will the cost of construction, infrastructure development charges, marketing costs and project management and administrative cost.
 
 On eligibility criteria, the bureaucrat said the title of the land must stand in the name of the private partner at the time of proposing the joint venture with Mhada, it should be vacant and free from all encumbrances, encroachments, charges, liens, leases, pledges, mortgages and litigations and minimum area of land should be 10 acres.
 
 Cost of the land will depend on location, road connectivity and it should be eligible for housing. “We have developed a marking system for selection of land. Marks will be allotted for topography, land conversion, rights of way, flood risk, impact on archaeological/heritage sites, urban sprawl, sustainability—public transport, access to retail amenities, local infrastructure, cultural, religious and recreational facilities and demand survey. We have given 100 marks for these points. Cost of land will be decided on the basis of scoring. A project should secure 70 marks for consideration,’’ he said.
 
 On revenue share, he said both Mhada and the private partner shall agree to opening a separate escrow account and all the receipts arising out of the project will be credited to the account. The tenements will comprise only low-income group houses, at least 35% houses will be for economically weaker section and pricing will be decided mutually by Mhada and private partner. Flat allotment will be done by Mhada on first-come, first-basis or lottery.
 
