KOLKATA: With the series already in their pocket, Team India will be oozing confidence when they take the field in the third and final ODI against England at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday.

 England, on the other hand, will have to re-motivate themselves after going 0-2 down despite of scoring 350plus runs in successive matches.
 
 The visiting team will also be ruing the fact that they failed to nail down India after having the hosts on the ropes in both matches. In Pune, India recovered from 634 to chase down England's tally of 350, while in Cuttack  's side had reduced  's men to 253 before they recovered to post 3816. On both occasions, England were haunted by twin tons from the rival ranks.
 
 Apart from being assured of his maiden series win as India's full-time captain in limited overs cricket, what must have pleased Kohli is the fact that the middle and lower order have stood up to the challenge when the chips were down. England opener Jason Roy summed it up nicely, pointing out that his team had been “undone in by some incredible individual performances”. The way Kedar Jadhav adapted to the situation in Pune and gave skipper Kohli the support he needed showed that India have the right depth and balance in the side.
 
 The move to bring back   to reduce the pressure on Mahendra Singh Dhoni has also paid rich dividend. The former India skipper relished his new role up the order with a superb 122ball 134 in Cuttack which included six towering sixes and 10 fours.
 
 Even Yuvraj, 35, silenced his critics, who had termed his recall a step backward, by making a sparkling 150 besides providing the much-needed stability in the middle-order. The bowling, which has often proved to be the Achilles heel for India, has also backed the team's strong batting by keeping the opposition under check on flat tracks.
 
 However, in spite of Team India cruising, skipper Kohli believes that his team operated at 75 percent of its optimum capacity in the first two ODIs. The only area of concern for India is the openers -   and KL Rahul - failing to provide good start. It will, therefore, not be surprising if the team management decides push Ajinkya Rahane into the fray. Rahane had a long stint in the nets despite Saturday's session being optional.
 
 England, of course, will be forced to go in with a different opening pair as Alex Hales has been ruled out with a fractured hand. His place is likely to be taken by Sam Billings.
 
