BHOPAL: A daylong strike of non-teaching staff of   on Thursday put scores of students to inconvenience. Those who came to the city from outside for   particularly bore the brunt.

 There are more than 350 colleges under the   in eight districts.   of Barkatullah University proceeded on strike to protest the higher education department’s failure to accept their major demands, including enhancement in wages. “I came from Betul, 150 km from Bhopal, to collect my degree, but the counter was closed. Now, I would have to come again,” said Inder Sinha, a student. Another student from Betul, Vikas Verma, had gone to the university with some queries on exams, but had to return disappointed.
 
 Surprisingly, a section of the non-teaching staff, including clerks and class IV employees, continued work for their officers during strike. They were seen passing on official files and papers, but were not willing to help the students. “This is not acceptable. They are on strike when it comes to students, but they are working for their officers. What kind of strike is this?” wondered Mona Sharma, a student who had come from Hoshangabad for admission enquiry. “They have shut down everything. No counter is functioning. This is sheer wastage of time,” said Milind Mishra, a student from Rajgarh. Another student said the university should have made alternative arrangements in such a situation. “Strike in university is a not a new thing, but the authorities should have ensured that the students do not suffer,” said Sakshi, an MBA student from Vidisha who had come to enquire about her mark-sheet.
 
 Association office-bearers said they submitted a memorandum with 17-point charter of demands to the higher authorities on many occasions in the past, but nothing came out of it. About their demands, the association said though there is an urgent need to recruit employees, but nothing has been done. The association also demanded parity in pension. “The university employees should be treated like   employees in matters of pension,” said Barkatullah University non-teaching staff association president Lakhan Parmar. Their other demands include implementation of seventh pay commission, salary of Class III and IV employees as per the UGC norms, increasing pay scale from Rs 4500-7000 to Rs 5500-9000, raising retirement age to 62 years, nomination of non-teaching staff in executive council, Rs 3,000 medical allowance and residential quarters for non-teaching staff.
 
 Parmar said the association does not want to trouble students, but it has been left with no other option after the department’s refusal to accept their long-pending demands. Association has made it clear that they will proceed on indefinite strike, if higher education department did not address their demands.
 
