AURANGABAD: A 19-year-old youth has been arrested and his friend (17) detained for allegedly gang-raping a minor girl on several occasions for about one-and-a-half months and also   from her.

 The 15-year-old survivor, a std X student of a girls' school here, has stated in her police complaint that the duo made a video when they first raped her on December 3 and started blackmailing her.
 
 Besides raping her, they also took money by threatening to circulate the  , said the police.
 
 The incident came to light on Friday morning, when the video clip of the alleged act went viral and reached the survivor's first cousin, who brought it to the notice of her parents. The girl narrated her ordeal to her mother after being taken into confidence, following which they lodged a complaint with City Chowk police station.
 
 The police charged the minor, a first-year college student, and the youth, who works for a jeweller, with the stringent sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. In addition to this, they have been slapped with several sections for gangrape, extortion and common intention.
 
 The 17-year-old minor was produced before the women and child welfare committee and sent to the juvenile home till January 24. The youth was produced in a court on Saturday and remanded in police custody till Wednesday .
 
 The survivor said in her complaint that she knew the duo for some time as they resided in the same locality where she lived. The minor befriended her and started making calls while asking her to come and meet him.
 
 “On December 3, at 4 pm, the minor boy convinced the girl to meet him. Soon, he and the youth took her on their bike to the historical Soneri Mahal on the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University campus and demanded sexual favours from her,“ said the police.
 
 Perturbed by the sudden advances by the duo, the girl started walking back home, but they overpowered her and raped her taking turns, said the police.
 
 Police sub-inspector Suwarna Deglurkar said, “The girl said one of them filmed the act while the other raped her.The suspects then started started blackmailing and raping her at will.“
 
 Deflurkar said that the duo even started demanding money from her and took Rs 4,000 from her on one occasion. The suspects were demanding Rs 5000 again from her but they were rounded up before that, she said.
 
