PUNE: The   on Wednesday booked the chairman of a   for allegedly duping a   from Ratnagiri district to the tune of Rs 40.9 lakh guaranteeing   of their son in a city medical college.

 The 49-year-old doctor approached the police after the suspect did not return the money despite his son not getting admission. The police have booked the suspect, a resident of Aundh, under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC.
 
 An officer of the Chatushrungi police station told TOI the complainant had approached the accused last May for his son’s admission to the premedical test coaching class in the former’s institution in Aundh. “The suspect had suggested the doctor then that instead of spending time and money for preparing for the premedical examination, he would help his son secure admission in a medical college,” the officer said.
 
 The accused demanded Rs40 lakh from the doctor for ensuring his son’s admission in one of the best medical colleges in the city. “Besides exhausting their savings, the doctor borrowed money from his friends and his wife took money from her father to give the accused Rs40.9 lakh,” the officer said.
 
 The doctor realized that he was   when the college concerned released the list of selected candidates for the course. His son’s name did not figure in it. “Subsequently, the doctor contacted the suspect and told him to return the money,” the officer said.
 
 The doctor did not approach the police immediately because the suspect had promised to return the money. “Whenever the doctor contacted the accused, the latter used to say he had given the money to some officials of the college and he would return the money once they returned it to him. The suspect had even told the doctor that he had given the money to a political leader, who was not returning it,” the officer said.
 
 After waiting for over five months, the doctor on Wednesday lodged the complaint against the suspect. “We are yet to arrest the accused,” the officer said.
 
