DEHRADUN: It was a random conversation at a tea shop overheard by a policeman that eventually led to busting of the kidney racket in Dehradun. The discussion in question happened between two drivers who were tasked to ferry kidney donors to   on the outskirts of Dehradun. 

 Almost a month ago, constable Pankaj Sharma, posted at Ranipur police station in Haridwar, was sitting in a tea shop in plainclothes when he overheard two people discussing the “illegal things” happening in the hospital. Recalling the sequence of events, constable Sharma told TOI, “It was early August and I was having morning tea at a roadside shop, when I heard two people sitting next to me talking about the goings-on in their hospital. They mentioned an   running there although they did not mention the name of the hospital.” 
 
 His suspicions aroused, Sharma informed his superiors — sub-inspector Abhinav Sharma and inspector Pradeep Bisht — who in turn informed Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Krishna Kumar V K about the matter. Speaking to TOI, SSP Krishna Kumar said, “I was informed that there were some leads that a possible organ racket was running in our area. However, the leads were not specific, since we did not know the name of the hospital or the persons suspected to be involved in it. Nevertheless, I formed a team to work on whatever clues we had,” Kumar said. 
 
 The cops used their informers’ network and eventually zeroed in on Gangotri Charitable Hospital located in Lattappar area of Doiwala on the outskirts of Dehradun. However, as Pradeep Bisht, in-charge of Ranipur police station recalls, they still did not have enough evidence to inform Dehradun police or go on an offensive against the syndicate. 
 
 Finally, after an almost month-long exercise, during which the cops developed sources within and outside the hospital, they got specific inputs about donors being taken to the hospital by a middleman in an SUV on the night of September 10. Acting on this information, a team of Haridwar police apprehended the vehicle leading to the arrest of five persons, including kingpin Amit Kumar’s key henchman Javed Khan who was tasked with arranging kidney donors. 
 
 Recognising the key role that Sharma played in sniffing out the scam, Haridwar police has recommended his name for a medal while the state police headquarters has decided to award the constable during next year’s Republic Day parade.
 
