Coimbatore: Industrialists from the Kongu region have come together to form a global forum to represent the need for international flights from Coimbatore. Named the Kongu Global Forum, the committee will soon approach the Central government to press on its long-pending demands of flights to the Middle East, Malaysia and Thailand. 

 At present, there are two international flights - one to Sharjah and another to Singapore. “But we need flights to Dubai, Malaysia and Thailand from where we can get connectivity to Europe and America,” said the president of Indian Chamber of Commerce, Coimbatore, Vanitha Mohan. “There is a flight to every European nation and the US from Dubai, and from Abu Dhabi there is a flight to all European nations and nearly 10 American countries,” she added. 
 
 The lack of international flights has been affecting business and industry. “Coimbatore only has 1lakh international flyers on average in a year while Trichy has 12lakh. Given the industrial and business potential, we should have more international flights flying in and out of Coimbatore,” said industrialist C R Swaminathan. 
 
 The director of  , G  , spoke about addressing the issue in three phases. “Land acquisition is the main problem. And, I wish to do it in three phases- first, to acquire 40acres of land to meet the safety standards for the runway,” he said. According to the safety norms, there should be 150m space on either sides of the runway, while Coimbatore Airport’s runway only has 70m. “This is the reason why many international flights are not willing to come to Coimbatore,” Reddy said. 
 
 In the second phase, he expects to get the remaining 260acres land and commence construction of the airport extension. “The civic work will take about five years. And, if we don’t close the land deals with the public, the prices of land will only shoot up further,” said Reddy. “The airport, at present only has eight bays. And, when a VVIP is landing, around four bays are taken into reserve. So, the airport has to manage commercial flights with only four bays,” he added. 
 
 In third phase, he plans to extend the present 10,000feet long runway to 12,500feet. “At this length, any aircraft can land,” he added. 
 
 Coimbatore will soon see operations of a third international flight. Sri   is expected to begin its four days in a week services to Colombo from July 15. “This has been timed in such a way that passengers from get connectivity from Colombo to Europe. This will also help in improving cargo services,” said the airport director. 
 
 
