THRISSUR: The organizers of various temple festivals, including Pooram and Vela, are on a warpath following the decision of Thrissur district authorities to strictly enforce the rules relating to fireworks display. 

 A hartal has been called in Thrissur on Thursday by the festival coordination committee office-bearers, seeking district authorities to soften their stand and permit the fireworks display without any restrictions. The BJP and Congress have extended support to the hartal. A fast was organized at Wadakkanchery on Tuesday as part of the protests. The protesters also threatened to launch a fast in front of the residences of ministers Sunilkumar, A C Moideen and C Ravendranath.
 
 It all started with the decision of the administration to restrict high-decibel items like gundu, amittu and kuzhiminni, as they are not permitted by the central laws.
 
 The issue reached a flashpoint with the authorities de Thrissur: nying permission to use these items for the famous pooram festival at Uthralikkavu, near Wadakkanchery.
 
 Meanwhile, talks between minister   and festival coordination committee office-bearers, on Tuesday evening, to resolve the crisis, remained inconclusive.
 
 The minister said he would talk to district administration officials and brief chief minister   on the same before getting back to the organizers on Wednesday.
 
 However, the festival organizers said they would go ahead with the planned agitations including the hartal.
 
 Babu M Palissery, president of the festival coordination committee, alleged that only Thrissur administration was hell-bent on restricting the fireworks display while the same items were permitted in the neighbouring districts.The organizers also argued that there was no point in enforcing the rule now as it was framed in 2008 but never implemented so far.
 
 The district authorities pointed out that the Puttingal tragedy, which had claimed over 100 lives, had reinforced the need to avoid hazardous items. The officials added that Thrissur was the hub of temple festivals and regulations should start from the district.
 
 “It may not be possible to persuade the festival organizers overnight. Almost all festival committees have now expressed willingness to avoid hazardous chemicals like potassium chlorate,“ said district collector A Kowsigan.
 
