PUNE: Parents of around 1,000 students studying in   International School and Junior College, Undri are worried about what the future holds for their children.

 These parents are not alone as students of nearly 50 schools across the country are being left in the lurch after the   (CBSE) decided to discontinue   International (CBSE-i) from the next academic year. 
 
 In the city, parents will now be forced to either change schools if they want their children to continue in an international format, or wait for RIMS International to get a CBSE affiliation. 
 
 School management said that they have continuously been in touch with CBSE-i officials and are seeking a response regarding the future of the over 1,000 students studying with them.
 
 A notification issued on January 31 by the CBSE stated that the CBSE-i was a curriculum initiated as a pilot project in 2010-11 and in the course of time several issues relating to operational difficulties, including availability of quality reading material of a global standard, were noticed.
 
 The project included a separate curriculum which kept in mind the international standards. The CBSE-i curriculum is flexible and caters to individual learning styles in terms of pedagogy and assessment.
 
 Parents, who wished to remain anonymous told TOI, “Majority of the students studying in the school have spent many years here and have become comfortable with this curriculum. If it is discontinued so abruptly, it will be really difficult for them, especially for older children of class VII, VIII and IX to cope with the sudden change.”
 
 Another parent said, “The school will move on now and if not with CBSE board they will go in for the Cambridge affiliation. But I did not enrol my child in this school for Cambridge education. I put her for CBSE and now I feel cheated.”
 
 Parents said that he school should act fast as so far, they have only been given assurances from the management but no concrete answers about the future of the students.
 
 Management forms association with other schools; plans to take legal route
 
 Academic director of RIMS, Undri, Kishor Pillai told TOI, “We have been in constant touch with the CBSE-i officials via e-mail on why the notification has not been updated on the CBSE-i portal. We have been urging them to see to it that the school and students should not be at a disadvantage due to this abrupt decision. We were not taken into confidence when this decision was taken and the issue of the kind of response the curriculum was getting was not discussed with us before the board reached to their conclusion.”
 
 Pillai said there were 50 schools in the country affiliated to the CBSE-i and they have formed an association after the notification to discontinue the curriculum was issued. The association will try and represent the issue on a bigger platform and be vocal about the future of the students as well as schools. “We will also be taking the legal way in order to secure the future of thousands of students studying in the CBSE-i schools,” said Pillai.
 
