COIMBATORE: With GST ( ) expected to be rolled out by the middle of this year,   (TN) have said the state government should not increase   (VAT) rates in its forthcoming budget. But more than the changes in tax structure, it is the procedural delays, high cost of labour and the difficulty in getting necessary clearances on time that rankle industries. "The government should improve the ease of doing business. Clearances, approvals and assessments should be done in a time-bound manner," says K Ilango, former chairman,   (CII),  . "Steps should be taken to make processes simple," he says. 

 Even conversion of land for industrial purpose has turned out to be an expensive and time consuming affair, industry leaders say. "Rules should not be used to harass businesses," they say. "We are losing our competitive edge because of the high cost of skilled manpower," says Jayakumar Ramdass, former president, Southern India Engineering Manufacturers' Association.
 
 "The state government should set up more ITIs (industrial training institutes) and training centres as they will give steady supply of skilled manpower," he says. Skill development centres should be sent up in villages around industrial areas and policies must be framed to ensure availability of right skill sets for industries in the region, CII, TN, said in its wish list for the state budget.
 
 Incidentally, TN had slipped to the 18th rank in the state-wise 'Ease of Doing Business' rankings released by the   (DIPP) of the Union ministry of commerce and industry in October last year. TN, which stood 12th in the rankings in 2015, has fallen behind even Bihar that is far less industrialised compared to other states, especially in the south. The state has been ranked outside the top-5 in key reform areas such as construction permit enablers, obtaining electricity connection and availability of land. TN continues to remain under the category of states, which has been classified as 'acceleration required'.
 
 Promotion of Madurai-Tuticorin industrial corridor, better connectivity through mass transportation system for industrial areas in and around Chennai, restarting Maduravoyal elevated express highway and a master plan for Coimbatore are among the major demands from industries on the infrastructure front. "In order to protect the industries in the state and also release the blocked VAT credit to leverage additional working capital, unutilised VAT credit may be refunded to industries within three months from the end of each quarter," CII, TN, said.
 
