Panaji: The conventional but unhygienic functioning of commodes, which have a direct release into the septic tank, has been in practice for years, and little has changed since. It was only when people began to look at the idea of treating human waste before flushing it into natural surroundings that innovations led to bio-toilets.

 Ashvem-based women entrepreneurs Tanya Kewalramani and Charmaine Sharma are attempting to introduce this eco-friendly system in an effort to popularize the use of bio-toilets in Goa.
 
 They are on the taskforce of the India sanitation coalition, a body that comprises corporates and people bringing new technology in sanitation.
 
 “Everyone is talking about building toilets, but nobody is addressing the issue of untreated sewage in the ground that enters the water table,” said Sharma.
 
 In bio-toilets, powdered bio-enzymes are added into the toilet bowl once a month. Bio-enzymes are naturally occurring proteins which catalyze the chemical reaction rate to decompose human excreta. The breakdown of fecal matter into odourless and pathogen-free gas and liquid produces an effluent which gets stored in the in-built tank of the bio-toilet. This non-polluting nutrient-rich effluent can be then released in the environment.
 
 “This effluent derived from treatment is odourless and can be used for agricultural purposes, thus eliminating the need for manual scavenging,” added Sharma.
 
 One pouch of bio-enzymes is sufficient for a toilet used by 15 people a day.
 
 At the recently-held See Sharp festival, the duo had installed a bio-toilet at the venue for attendees to use. 
 
 “Bio toilets are not just an economical form of sewage treatment system but are also moveable. Unlike a brick-and-mortar toilet, bio-toilets can be loaded onto a truck and moved elsewhere,” said Kewalramani.
 
 In bio-toilets, powdered bio-enzymes are added into the toilet bowl once a month. These are naturally occurring proteins that catalyze the chemical reaction rate to decompose human excreta. The odourless and pathogen-free gas and liquid produced get stored in the in-built tank of the toilet
 
 
