Mumbai:   is converting ration shops into   outlets by recruiting Public Distribution System ( ) agents as business correspondents. With various states pushing the ePDS agenda, where payments are transferred electronically to distributors, the private bank is seeing an opportunity to convert distributors into partners, rather than customers.

 Although state governments have provided the mandate to different banks, IDFC Bank is treating this as an opportunity to scale up its network. The private bank, which has received the mandate from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra governments for cashless payment at PDS outlets, is now in talks with the Haryana government .
 
 The bank had recently rolled out IDFC Aadhaar Pay in association with the Unique Identification Authority of India. The service involves use of a point of sale device that has a fingerprint scanner, which facilitates account-to-account transfers using Aadhaar. The customer does not need to swipe a debit card, remember passwords or own a cellphone. Also, there are no transaction fees.
 
 “In rural and semi-urban areas, where customers need ‘assisted digital’ banking formats, IDFC Bank’s Aadhaar merchant solution is a perfect fit. The merchant benefits from the medium—as this is a new AEPS payment railroad, it has no merchant discount rate attached to it and can provide the service to customers without having to pay the bank a transaction fee,” said Rajiv Lal, MD & CEO, IDFC Bank.
 
 The private bank, which received its banking licence in August 2014, is enrolling over 3,200 PDS outlets in Andhra Pradesh into its cashless system and has deployed micro ATMs in such outlets. The bank has started roping in the ration shop network in Maharashtra, where it has received the mandate to implement cashless PDS in 14 districts in the state. 
 
 Typically, when banks enrol shops for card-based payments, it is the merchant who has to pay the fee. By enrolling the PDS agent as a business correspondent, the merchant actually receives a fee as he is treated as an extended banking outlet. The biometric micro ATM enables customers to conduct a host of banking transactions. These include account opening, eKYC using fingerprints, cash deposits, cash withdrawals and balance enquiries. Customers will also be able to make government payments.
 
 
