Leaving behind the tried and tested formula, there are bold and unconventional scripts where artistes brainstorm for unusual concepts and the presentation is not run-of-the-mill. That’s the world of experimental   for you. While this genre is quite well received in bigger cities, closer home it is struggling hard to survive. We find out why   theatre is dying a slow death in the city… 

 
 
 Despite the fact that Nagpur’s young amateur artistes are trying their best to bring in something new, experimental plays have failed to draw a large audience. According to a passionate, young theatre actor Mugdha Deshkar, audience here is not receptive to experiments. She adds, “Firstly, Nagpur audience is not theatre driven; it is more inclined towards movies. Having said this, people are ready to pay for celebrity plays but hold back when it comes to paying nominal amounts for plays by local artistes. And that is the major reason why we do not have enough motivation to think out-of-the-box and keep the experimental genre alive.” 
 
 
 Besides poor turnout, city artistes complain that they are not equipped with good technical support and basic facilities that are essential for presenting these experimental plays. Theatre actor Ashwini Gorle says, “We do not have proper light arrangements. In fact, acoustics in many of our   are not up to the mark. The presentation of experimental play is more dramatic compared to the regular plays, so we need these facilities for our plays. Another glitch is space; we do not have space for rehearsals. The fare of Mumbai and Pune auditoriums are cheaper than Nagpur’s, where actors generally rehearse.”
 
 
 Theatre director Sandeep Daberao who regularly does experimental plays agrees that this genre has lost its sheen in the city and needs a revival of sorts. “Recently, my play Cursed King was staged which was not well received and we were heartbroken. I realised, people want to see comedy plays or plays that do not require them to rack their brains. It is so demotivating to perform in a less occupied auditorium,” says Sandeep and adds, “As a solution, I feel there should be a separate competition dedicated to experimental plays, so that this theatre gets much needed visibility and boost.”
 
 
 Many theatre artistes feel some of the artistes are also at fault. Theatre artiste Rupesh Pawar says, “We can’t put the entire blame on the city audience. There are very few people who are attempting experimental plays in the city.” He goes on to add, “Recently, we staged a play Tamasha Songadyacha, wherein we made two stages on each side and our audience sat in-between. This concept was well received. The point is, artistes here have immense talent but they are not pushing themselves enough to give something new to the audience.” A veteran theatre artiste Gopal Vasule feels that the artistes in the city lack vision. He adds, “Youngsters’ creativity has limitations. They are more focused on competitions; there are very few people who are honestly involved in experimental theatre or strive hard to take it further. And of course, they do not have enough money to erect elaborate sets which is another factor that adds to fading popularity of experimental plays.” 
 
 
 Another reason why experimental theatre is not thriving in the city is because plays are not being publicised by the theatre groups. Validating this, theatre actor Saurabh Hirkane says, “It is sad that artistes are not willing to spend on promotions. Our plays Mughalani Satta Daan Keli and Tai had less audience because many of the theatre buffs were not aware of them. Artistes should ensure that the plays are promoted well.” 
 
 
