NEW DELHI: The   Phase-III work, stuck for nearly two years due to delay in   acquisition in the Yamuna floodplain, will finally pick up pace. Lieutenant governor   on Thursday decided to ask   to carry out the social impact assessment (SIA) for acquiring land for the project.

 Delhi government officials say   will conduct the survey of 8.5 acres belonging to Nangli Razapur villagers. 
 
 “Though villagers are willing to sell the land, SIA has to be done as it is mandatory as per the new Act. Experts will study the impact of land acquisition on the owners and the compensation amount will be decided based on the SIA report. The notification in this regard will be done on Friday,” said an official.
 
 PWD officials have been pushing to expedite the land acquisition process due to cost escalation resulting from delay in construction.
 
 Villagers of Nangli Razapur have agreed to sell the land, but there is a disagreement on the compensation amount. Officials said villagers were demanding Rs 7-9 crore per acre, which the government has refused to pay. 
 
 While work has started on both ends of the 3.4km-long elevated corridor, PWD officials said the work on a nearly 700 metre-long stretch located in the riverbed couldn’t start as it was privately owned. “These are two small land parcels falling in the approved alignment. We realised it after the construction work had started. We have been trying to resolve the issue for nearly two years,” said an official.
 
 As per the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013, the state governments have to notify agencies to carry out the SIA of people whose land is likely to be acquired. While the Act was passed in 2013, the Delhi government notified the panel for SIA in July this year. 
 
 Meanwhile, PWD officials said just 35-40% of the work had been completed. The crucial part is to construct a bridge over the Yamuna for which PWD has to dig 12 well foundations. Officials said the project would miss the May 2018 deadline as it would take at least a year to complete the work after the latest acquisition. 
 
 
