Gurgaon: The   chief on Sunday announced the state government would invest around Rs 45 crore to strengthen   infrastructure in villages across Gurgaon and   districts, taking forward the discom’s recent announcement that it would provide 24-hour power supply to these districts from this year’s  . 

 The state government has come up with a blue print of the project, under which rural feeders of the two districts will be strengthened, while other   will be improved as per requirement. The announcement was made at a public gathering in Farrukhnagar, where DHBVN MD Shatrujit Kapoor addressed several panchayat representatives on the project.
 
 The scheme will benefit hundreds of villages in the two districts. “The government aims to provide round-the-clock power supply to 70% of the population in these villages, which currently get only 12 hours supply,” said Kapoor.
 
 He said defective power lines will be replaced and new transformers installed in the villages under the project. Other infrastructure upgrades will also be made.
 
 In order to get 24-hour power supply, a village panchayat has to submit a resolution stating it wants to adopt the state government’s ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ (MGJG) scheme, and form ‘Bijli Sudhaar Samitis’, which will help resolve issues that come up during implementation of the infra projects. Presently, 17 villages of Gurgaon district are already included in the MGJG scheme.
 
 Kapoor said villagers will have to ensure smooth execution of the projects and convince their neighbours to cooperate. “Due to curb on power thefts, we have been able to reduce the surcharge by Re 0.99 over the last year. It can be reduced further, if more power thefts, which are mostly reported from villages, can be plugged,” said Kapoor.
 
 According to Kapoor, the state saved about 200 MW power daily, which is equal to the power generated in a day on average by one generator of a thermal power plant. It was possible because of the scheme undertaken by the discoms, under which they distributed about 1.25 crore LED bulbs during 2016. Haryana has now asked for 2.5-3 times more LED bulbs from the central government for distribution.
 
 
