GURGAON: A   and   brought relief on Wednesday evening but also, predictably, threw traffic out of gear in parts of the city, including the busy   area. 

 Power outages, also predictable every time there is rain or storm, were reported from several areas, including DLF Phase 4.
 
 After the rains, the minimum   in Gurgaon fell to 24 degrees Celsius. The city had recorded a maximum of 40 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.
 
 The light showers were accompanied by strong winds that blew away leaf litter, dust and scrap along with them. “The weather worsened in the latter part of the evening. That created problems. There was so much of dust flying. I could barely open my eyes,” said Aakanksha Singh, who works in Cyber City.
 
 Anil Puri, a resident of DLF Phase 4, said, “I dont really understand what our power infrastructure is made up of. It seems as though it is not able to withstand even winds. Ever since the winds started blowing on Wednesday, we witnessed three power cuts of about one to two hours duration.” 
 
 Power officials, however, said the lines were under pressure because the current demand for electricity in Gurgaon was 2.32 crore units per day. 
 
 The weatherman has predicted light showers in some areas of the city on Thursday too, which is expected to further bring down the mercury. However, the temperatures are likely to rise starting Friday.
 
 A met official told TOI a western disturbance was currently passing over the region as a result of which parts of Delhi-NCR and Haryana witnessed dust storm activity on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Such activities are likely to take place on Thursday as well. After May 12, the weather would be clear and temperatures will start rising,” said Ravinder Vishen, an official at Indian Meteorological Department. 
 
 Vishen said that mercury will rise up to 43 degrees Celsius around May 15 and 16. “Thereafter, we will see an arrest in the rise of temperature. This is because we are expecting another western disturbance on May 17. Up to May 18, we might not see the heat wave conditions that we saw over the last few days because the wind pattern is not supportive for the rise in temperatures,” he said.
 
