He is the latest sensation in the southern film fraternity. And  , who is basking in the super success of his recent film — which incidentally had a large portion picturized in   — reveals that he had established a connection with the coastal city long before he visited it. “Back in college in Hyderabad, I had masqueraded as a Tuluva from Mangaluru to escape from being made fun of for not speaking fluent Telugu. I spent my growing years at a boarding school in  , where we used to only converse in English. When I returned to Hyderabad, my Telugu wasn’t very good. My college mates used to often pull my leg about it, so, one day I told them, ‘I’m a Tulu guy from Mangaluru and this is all the Telugu I can manage.’ Had I told them I was a Tamilian or a Kannadiga, they’d have found out. I was confident that there were no Tulu folks in college, so I got away with this theory well until I finished college,” laughs Vijay. 
So, how did a guy from Hyderabad get to know of Mangaluru and a language as niche as Tulu? “Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was the reason, once I got to know about her roots from Mangaluru. Ever since, I’ve come to realize that it’s not only her, but that other Mangalurean girls are also very pretty,” he states. 
 The team of   arrived in Mangaluru last year, owing to the director’s affinity to the city. “We needed a coastal location. Sandeep ( , the director) has studied in Dharwad and has many friends from there. He spent 10 days in Mangaluru to freeze locations and we shot at some fab places. The University College, Canara College, the private beaches that remain untouched even today, the colonial homes... even the walls of the city with the green moss covering it were so beautiful.” The film had a many locals participating in the shoot including senior Tulu and Kannada actor   who played the heroine’s father in the film. “And yes, I got to see first hand how pretty the girls are,” he reminds us once more. 
  At which point, we ask him about the food. “Oh yes, the food! I am sea food lover and I had a gastronomic treat every single day. From crabs to fish, sukka to kori rotti, I ate it all. My only regret is that I couldn't sample mudde (ragi ball) which Gopinath sir had told me so much about. Next time...I want to return for more,”he says. Before wrapping up, he asks, “How did Mangalureans like the film? When we showcase a place, we wanted the locals to connect to it which is why so much effort went in to retain the authenticity of the language and the place. I hope we have lived upto it.”
 
 Vijay is a frequent flier to Bengaluru. “I come here often to chill out,” he says. Point out that his hometown has a better nightlife than Bengaluru, which shuts down shortly after midnight, the actor says, “I have a large group of friends. We don’t hit the nightspots, but hang out at their homes.” He is also in regular touch with filmmaker  , who is remaking Arjun Reddy in Kannada. “That means it has managed to touch people...we want more people to access it. I was happy to hear this news,” says Vijay.
 
 - Madhu Daithota
 
