NEW DELHI: Though India’s reaction to the detention of LeT chief   is a cautious “wait and watch”, the security establishment sees the move as a positive development that can, if sustained, improve ties with Pakistan. 

 The detention and a likely decision to place   — the “charitable” cover for LeT — and Falah-e-Insaniat on a watch list are being seen as steps in the right direction. 
 
 “Even though Hafiz Saeed and others are linking the crackdown to pressure on account of Donald Trump becoming US President, there are doubts about the new US administration attaching top priority to such actions at this early juncture,” said a top intelligence official. “The preventive arrest of five top JuD/Falah-e-Insaniat leaders and the impending ban on the two outfits are, in all likelihood, conscious moves initiated by (Pakistan PM Nawaz) Sharif himself. We need to watch the military leadership’s reaction as well as track any backlash from Lashkar, which works in league with the ISI. In this case, retaliatory strikes, if any, may take place within Pakistan rather than in India,” the official said. 
 
 Though Pakistan is keen to signal to the Trump administration that it will act against terror outfits and masterminds based on its soil, the latest crackdown comes on the back of small hints of a thaw in Islamabad’s attitude after a change of guard at the Pakistan army headquarters and the ISI, with the exit of former army chief General Raheel Sharif. Though Pakistan has denied the surgical strikes India pulled off in POK last year, New Delhi’s insistence on outcomes on terrorism has become plain to Islamabad. 
 
 The assessment, an intelligence officer pointed out, is that, helped by a more accommodative military leadership, Sharif can look to rescue the troubled ties with India. For instance, there has been no major terror attack by Pakistan-based outfits for over a month now. The recent release of Indian fishermen and the return of a soldier who crossed the LoC during the surgical strikes are encouraging signs, though security officials are watching events closely. 
 
 Interestingly, while action has been initiated against JuD, the other major source of terror in India, Jaish-e Mohammad, led by Masood Azhar, is still off the hook. “JuD/LeT has come under US scanner far more than Jaish. It is possible that Pakistan wants to take one step at a time. Only after the military leadership throws its weight behind the Sharif government will the latter move against Jaish,” said an expert. 
 
 Of course, Saeed’s detention falls way short of India’s consistent demand that he be brought to justice for 26/11 and many recent terror attacks. “Still, any action against him and JuD is welcome,” said a former intelligence official.
 
