PANAJI: Despite a much delayed start to the current turtle nesting season, the   have already laid nearly 1,500 eggs across 13 nests at various sites on Goa’s beaches, giving local turtle lovers enough cause to rejoice.
 
  While thousands of Olive Ridleys hit the   during the nesting season which commences post November, Goan turtle lovers are delighted if the flippered visitors lay even a 1,000 eggs on the beaches of the coastal state.
  
  This year, two turtles were the first ones to arrive at Morjim and Agonda on January 19 - much later than usual. But in a little over a month, the number of nests has touched 13 and the eggs, nearly 1,500.
  
  “Six nests and a total of 702 eggs have been laid in Morjim and Mandrem in Pernem till date, and seven nests and 791 eggs in Agonda and Galgibaga,” a forest official said.
  
  The latest Olive Ridley to arrive was one that came at 3.20 am on Friday to lay 121 eggs on Morjim beach, providing a further boost to Goa’s modest turtle conservation programme, which was first pioneered on Morjim beach in the late 1990s. Later, a priest at Galgibaga ensured it took roots on the remote  , too.
  
  A turtle had also surfaced at Vagator beach at 5am on the other side of Chapora river and laid 150 eggs on February 6. “The eggs were relocated to Morjim near the interpretation centre at the turtle nesting site,” a source said.
  
  Four locations -- Morjim and Mandrem in Pernem and Agonda and Galgibaga in Canacona -- had been designated as turtle nesting sites under   (CRZ) notification 2011. But loud music, bright lights and other factors have disturbed the arrival of the sea turtles and affected nesting activity in recent years.
  
  However, the forest department has deployed staff to keep vigil on four sites. “These guards, though not paid well and often not regularly, are a lifeline to the turtle conservation programme, as they keep egg poachers at bay,” an environmental activist said.
  
  At present, four nests with a total of 494 eggs are being monitored at Agonda and three with 297 eggs in Galgibaga. “A total of 791 eggs are in these seven nests,” said  , range forest officer (wild life), Cotigao.
  
  With the summer approaching fast, officials are hoping a few more turtles may still surface and make the season fairly successful. “Two years back, a turtle had arrived as late as April-May for nesting,” a source at Morjim said.
