AURANGABAD: A few typos that allegedly appeared in the Maharashtra Teachers Eligibility Test ( ) left aspiring teachers fuming on Saturday. The state-level test, which was conducted across 28 centres in the city, also saw skirmishes at few centres between vigilance authorities and candidates over entry timings after some aspirants were not allowed to enter the examination hall as they arrived late.

 “The question paper was released without proper  . There were casual errors in framing some questions that could have easily been avoided,” said  , one of the TET candidates.
 
 As regards to the issue of late-reporting, some of the affected candidates said that they were denied entry despite reaching a few minutes before the scheduled timing of the examination. A section of the candidates also said that the difficulty in locating examination centre due to inadequate details mentioned on the hall-tickets caused delay in reporting on time. 
 
 Total 8,461 candidates had registered for paper I of TET, of which 7,889 appeared for the examination. Paper I was held from 10.30 am to 1 pm. 
 
 For paper II, 6,263 candidates appeared for the examination as against the registered 6,384. 
 
 Maharashtra   (MSCE) is the competent authority to conduct TET, which is mandatory for teaching aspirants willing to serve in educational institutes of all managements and all mediums, including private-aided, unaided and even self-financed schools. 
 
 MSCE commissioner   downplayed alleged presence of typos in TET papers. “We have not come across any major mistake in question paper that could cause potential loss to the candidates. Proof-reading question paper is not possible due to its confidentiality. However, we will once again check with the officials who set the paper whether any such errors were printed,” he said, adding that the examination passed off smoothly. 
 
 As regards to issues related to entry in examination hall, he said vigilance officers must have followed MSCE guidelines only. 
 
 The draft answer-key of TET would be released shortly followed by actual declaration of results after taking note of suggestions or objections received in response to model answers. 
 
 The test, which has been introduced in the light of RTE Act 2009 with an aim to make available quality primary teachers, was notified by the state government through government resolution issued on August 23, 2013. 
 
