PATNA: Newly appointed   (NU) chancellor   presided over the ground breaking ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of non-residential buildings on the university’s main campus at Rajgir on Wednesday. The ceremony was organized by Nagarjuna Construction Company ( ), the firm which has been awarded the contract for construction works. 

 On his maiden visit to Bihar after being appointed as the chancellor by President   on January 28,   said his priority would be to make NU an institution which inspires students not to merely get degrees, but to fulfil the expectations of the society.
 
 “I consider myself extremely privileged that I have been part of this historic day. I have seen the design of the building and am confident that when it comes up, you will see a resurrection of the old Nalanda in terms of design. I hope that with the joint efforts of Vastu Shilpa Consultants, NCC, MECON and the university, we will see the structure emerge within a year,” said Bhatkar.
 
 Prior to participating in the ground breaking ceremony, Bhatkar held a courtesy meeting with chief minister Nitish Kumar in Patna in the morning. Talking to him, Nitish said it was essential to ensure that the idea of Nalanda was not tampered with. He also asked the chancellor to ensure that the construction was carried out as per the scheduled time frame and an “organic link” with around 200 villages around Nalanda ruins was made. 
 
 The non-residential buildings on the campus of NU at Rajgir constitute a major part of the university's phase-I construction programme. They will comprise two schools, administrative block, communication centre, campus amenities like international centre, amphitheatre, arcade, dining hall, faculty club, school, medical centre and infirmary, sports centre, commercial market, bank and post office, among others. All such buildings are scheduled to be made ready by February, 2020.
 
 Welcoming the guests at the ground breaking ceremony, the varsity’s in-charge vice-chancellor Pankaj Mohan said, “The master plan of the university has been made to provide state-of-the-art facilities and encourage future development of the university while containing the echo of history and culture of ancient Nalanda.”
 
 The master plan of the main campus of the varsity has been designed by Vastu Shilpa Consultants (VSC), which emerged as the winner of the architectural design competition held in 2013. 
 
