CHENNAI: The ongoing protest on the   has not just brought the struggle for Jallikattu to centre stage. It has also helped build a bond between the protesters and those living in the vicinity of the famous sandy stretch.

 On Monday, as violence erupted, residents of a few slum colonies and fishermen brought food and water to those on the beach in boats, even defying a Coast Guard ban.
 
 As the protest raged, these simple folk had brought food in huge quantities with those crying themselves hoarse on the beach. They even provided police personnel deployed on the beach with food.
 
 “But when things turned ugly, the very men in khaki who we served food and water in person turned on us,” said Singanna, a 36-year-old from the nearby  .
 
 All through the week, some of the excess food was taken back to the fishing settlements and slum colonies and consumed.
 
 Several protesters said they would never forget the acts of kindness. “These people were kind towards us. Without them, we would not have survived.”
 
 Many residents of Ayodhyakuppam breached the security cordon on Kamarajar Salai and walked on to the beach to hand over water sachets to thirsty men and women, many of whom had swooned in the heat.
 
 “Some fishermen called their friends and relatives in Thiruvanmiyur Kuppam and Kasimedu Fishing Harbour. Soon, many fibre boats carrying food appeared from both sides ,” said a protester.
 
 A Coast Guard vessel tried to prevented the fishermen from landing on the beach, but they managed to reach the shore. Biscuits, water packets, tea and idlies were supplied at regular intervals.
 
 There were a few unruly people among the protesters, police said. These elements used slum residents and fishermen as shields and created havoc, they added.
 
 Several people in slum colonies in areas such as Dr Besant Road and Nadukuppam were seen arguing fiercely with police, who they claimed were trying to evict them. Many protesters ‘took shelter’ in slum tenements and hurled stones and even petrol bombs at police, a senior officer said.
 
 Late on Monday night, a few hundred protesters remained on the beach and slum residents and fishermen continued to supply them food. Some brought change of clothes, a few provided them blankets. They kept them company even as police officers and others urged the protesters to call off the agitation. 
 
