HYDERABAD: In a far-reaching decision, the   on Monday handed over the administration of the controversy-ridden   (HCA) to Vinod Rai, former comptroller and auditor general (CAG) and the current   administrators. They were directed to immediately appoint an observer from the BCCI to monitor the India-Bangladesh Test match to be held in Hyderabad from February 9 and, more importantly, directed to appoint a financial advisor to ensure proper maintenance of the records of HCA finances. The existing executive body of the HCA, that was elected on September 14, 2014 for a two-year period and still claiming to be its executive body even after the expiry of two years by virtue of an alleged amendment to the HCA bye-laws, can conduct the current match but will have to deposit all the income received from the match in the HCA bank account and spend this money only with the prior written permission of the BCCI observer for the Test match, the HC said. All decisions must be taken in consultation with the prior approval of the observer, it added.

 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Shameem Akther pronounced this interim order while hearing a public interest petition filed by M Govind Reddy, former cricketer and a practising advocate, who was seeking reforms in the HCA administration in tune with the reforms initiated by the   and the Lodha Committee.
 
 The bench, in its order, directed petitioner's counsel Vivek Chandrasekhar to immediately convey this order to the BCCI administrators' committee. Since the BCCI has already sent to Hyderabad its general manager   to oversee the arrangements for the ensuing match, the Test match at Hyderabad shall be conducted under his overall supervision, the court said. This arrangement will last only till the BCCI administrators appoint an observer.
 
 The court further ruled the BCCI can appoint a person from Deloitte or from elsewhere as HCA's financial advisor and he should assist the observer in maintaining the accounts of the HCA. The financial advisor should furnish to the court a report on the income generated and how it was spent by February 27, the next date of hearing of the petition.
 
 While refusing to make any observations on the alleged financial irregularities committed by the HCA management so far, the bench left the issue to the BCCI's current management. The legal proceedings pending before various courts on the conduct of elections to the HCA executive body shall be decided by those respective courts independently uninfluenced by the observations made in this order, Justice Ramesh Ranganathan, who wrote the judgment, said.
 
