Ambala: Yamunanagar police have arrested two persons for attempting to leak the bus conductors’ exam paper, which was conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) this Sunday. 

 Investigating officer Bilaspur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Randhir Singh said they were conducting raids to arrest more persons involved in the racket. 
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Dharmendra and Kapil, residents of Rohtak district. They were arrested on Monday following a tip-off by the Jhajjar police.
 
 Police said they had seized 75 admission cards of candidates from the accused, two cars, a printer and six mobile phones. Both of them were produced before the court and sent to two-day police remand.
 
 Police said initial investigations revealed that Dharmendra and Kapil had struck a deal with candidates to provide either a test paper key or help them during the exam. They also planned to take Rs 6 lakh each from the 75 candidates, mostly from Rohtak, Jhajjar and Kaithal districts, whose examination centre was either in Yamunanagar or Karnal, sources said.
 
 Sources added that on the basis of input given by cyber cell of Jhajjar police to cops in Yamunanagar, it was informed that in one of the calls tracked by them, Kapil admitted to giving Rs 67 lakh to the survey team of HSSC in Chandigarh. HSSC chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharti however termed the allegations as baseless.
 
 “It is being investigated whether the paper was leaked or not. It is said that accused Kapil is the brother of Jitendra Siwach, presumed to be the mastermind behind the clerk recruitment exam question   in December last year,” said Yamunanagar station house officer (SHO) Sunil Kumar.
 
 Sources said that one Preeti, posted with Karnal traffic police, had approached the police, saying her family had struck a Rs 6 lakh deal with Kapil to help her brother Manish clear the exam. She alleged that during the exam, Manish got no help from Kapil and Dharmendra. Sources said that Preeti had called Kapil to return the money and asked him to meet her at the Yamunanagar bus stand.
 
 Fearing that she might not get the money back from the accused, she also informed cops. Police reached the spot and nabbed both Kapil and Dharmendra. Police have registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy against them, said SHO Kumar.
 
 
