MUMBAI:  , the holding company of the salt-to-software   conglomerate, will buy Rs 1,804 crore worth of group companies' shares to ramp up its stake in these operating entities. It will acquire 6.84% in   and 4.39% in  , which will tighten its grip in these two consumer-facing companies to 29.48% and 23.72%.

 Tata Sons will buy Tata Global Beverages shares from Tata Chemicals and vice versa. The proposed stake purchase by Tata Sons is also aimed at unwinding the complex cross-holding structure in group companies. Besides, it will allow group entities to encash their holdings and use the sale proceeds to reduce their debt and/or finance growth plans. Tata Chemicals has said it will deploy the funds received from the sale of its 6.84% stake in Tata Global Beverages to boost its food products business.
 
 Tata Sons said that the acquisition price of Tata Global Beverages and Tata Chemicals' shares will not be more than a 25% premium over their 60-day average trading price of Rs 177.99 and Rs 609.23 apiece. At these buy prices, Tata Chemicals will get Rs 959 crore from the divestment of Tata Global Beverages shares while Tata Global Beverages will get Rs 845 crore from the sale of Tata Chemicals' shares. The proposed transactions will take place on or after September 18.
 
  
  
 A high shareholding will also help Tata Sons in corporate battles like the one it witnessed against former directors   and  . During the boardroom fight, Tata Sons had to garner support of institutional investors to remove Mistry and Wadia from group companies as it had low holdings in certain entities like   and  .
 
 Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata had once said that he would like the company to have at least 50% in operating entities. While Tata Sons has high holdings in new-age companies like TCS (73.52%), it has low stakes in historical entities like Tata Global Beverages, Tata Chemicals and Tata Steel (at one point of time, Birlas used to be the largest shareholders of Tata Steel than the Tatas).
 
 But over the last two decades, Tata Sons has been consolidating its position in frontline companies to protect its interests and safeguard operating entities from hostile takeovers. For instance, Tata Sons' stake in Tata Steel went up from 8.5% in 1996 to 19.8% in 2005 and it now stands at 29.75%.
 
 Buying group companies' investments has been one of Tata Sons' ways to increase its holdings in operating entities. In March 2016, it bought Rs 312 crore worth of   shares from Tata Global Beverages, whereas in June it bought Rs 3,700 crore worth of Tata Motors shares from Tata Steel. At Tata Sons' February 21 board meeting — which was N Chandrasekaran's first as chairman — it was decided to invest Rs 10,000 crore to purchase shares of group companies.
 
 Untangling cross-holdings by group companies will also help in having a simpler, non-complicated ownership structure, something that Chandrasekaran is keen to put in place. Traditionally, group companies supported each other's business ventures and, as a result, the cross-holding arrangement. For instance, Tata Steel promoted Tata Motors when the company was formed.
 
 Tata Steel, Tata Motors and Tata Chemicals own cross-holdings worth at least Rs 10,000 crore in various group companies. While cross-holdings help when the investment generates returns, it can be a strain at other times on the balance sheet. For instance, Tata Power's investment in Tata Teleservices has seen an erosion in value.
 
 
