After a high-voltage campaign in Varanasi which saw Prime Minister   spending three days in his parliamentary constituency, the stage is set for the seventh and final round of UP elections covering 40 constituencies of eastern UP. Although this phase is smallest in size, the caste dynamics and its geography makes it crucial for all the parties.

 Apart from the PM constituency, the phase also has three Naxal-affected districts — Sonbhadra, Mirzapur and Chandauli. 
 
 Two constituencies of Sonbhadra — Duddhi and Obra — are the first to be reserved for scheduled tribes. Ghazipur, Jaunpur and Bhadohi are the other districts going to polls in this phase. Tight security has been put in place in these seven districts.
 
 Polling will be held between 7 am to 5 pm in all constituencies, except the Duddhi, Robertsganj and Chakia seats, where polling will end at 4 pm. A total of 1.41 crore voters, including 64.76 lakh women, are eligible to exercise their franchise in 14,458 polling booths.
 
 The presence of a large number of most backward class’s castes in the district going to the polls has made small caste-specific parties significant players in the phase. No wonder, BJP is contesting only 32 out of 40 seats and has given four seats each to allies Apana Dal and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, which are popular among Kurmis and Rajbhars respectively.SP is contesting on 31 seats and its ally the Congress is in race for the remaining seats. 
 
 BSP candidates on the other hand are fighting on all 40 seats. In the 2012 state assembly polls, out of these 40 seats, SP won 23 seats, BSP five, BJP four, Congress three while five seats went to smaller parties like Qaumi Ekta Dal and Independents. QED, led by  , is now part of BSP. His elder brother   is contesting from Mohammadabad in this phase. Mukhtar and his son Abbas were in fray in the previous phase from Mau and Ghosi respectively
 
 In all, 535 candidates are in the fray. While the maximum candidates (24) are from the Varanasi Cantt seat, the minimum number of candidates (six) are contesting from Kerakat (SC).
 
 For the  , Prime Minister Narendra Modi spent three days in Varanasi, where he visited temples, held a roadshow and attended a number of public events. 
 
