HYDERABAD: A devoted fan of actor   stunned audiences and surprised the Telugu film megastar as well when he scrimped and bought a ticket paying Rs 1 lakh to watch `Gautamiputra Shatakarni', the 100th film of the actor released on Thursday.

 Gopichand  , 27, who owns a modest restaurant in Narsaraopet,  , walked into the benefit show for cancer patients in a city theatre, where organisers were hoping to sell tickets for anything between Rs 500 to Rs 2,000.
 
 When Gopichand handed over the cheque against the ticket, organisers said they were left speechless.Gopichand said he also wanted to be part of the cause of helping patients at the Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute here.
 
 “I saved that money over one year so that I could give it for a cause through Balakrishna's movie,“ Gopichand told TOI. “I chose not to spend money unnecessarily on parties etc., with the intention of saving it for charity. I was waiting for the movie to be released so that I could donate it,“ he added.
 
 Gopichand, who has an MBA degree, is looking forward to taking a picture with Balakrishna soon.Although he met the actor at the Sri Brahmaramba theatre at Kukatpally,   felt it was not the right time for a picture.“Balakrishna appreciated me for making the donation,“ Gopichand said. Balakrishna is also the chairman of the hospitals' board of trustees.
 
 The Rs 1 lakh cheque was handed over to Naveen Moparthi, the administrator of manabalayya.com, a website dedicated to Balakrishna that gives updates on his films and also organises charities.
 
 Nara Rohith, nephew of chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, handed over the cheque on behalf of Gopichand Innamuri to Naveen who will pass it to Basavatarakam hospital. The fan also got to watch the benefit show at Sri Brahmaramba theatre at Kukatpally along with Balakrishna, and director of `Baahubali' Rajamouli, among others.
 
 The actor's fans went into a frenzy at the theatre bursting crackers, celebrating the movie's release. Shouting slogans like “Jai Balayya, we love you Balayya', they ushered Gopi into the theatre. Balakrishna obliged a woman fan and took a photograph with her, getting up from a seat in the gallery .
 
 “It was my father's dream to do the role, but I got to do it.We finished it in 79 days. I am excited. I am getting good reports about the film from UK, USA, and also Africa,“ Balakrishna said. It's not unusual for Balakrishna fans to show their admiration for their hero by purchasing tickets at a high cost. A fan in the US paid $5,555 (then `3.7L) to buy the first ticket of `Dictator' released on January 14, 2016.
 
 The tickets were auctioned days in advance. For his `Legend', released on March 27, 2014, a fan in Rayalaseema bought the first ticket for Rs 40,000.Balakrishna's film `Ramarajyam' released on November 17, 2011, also made big news as an NRI bought the premier show ticket for $5,000 in New Jersey, US. Atluri, another die-hard fan of Balakrishna from Nuzvid in Krishna district, paid Rs 5.2 lakh in an auction to buy the axe that Balakrishna had used in the film `Simha' released in 2010.
 
 
