HYDERABAD: An attempt to escape from crushing poverty to greener pastures is sending scores of workers from Telangna into a  . The fact that in the last two and a half years, nearly 500 coffins have arrived from various gulf countries holds mirror to the grim reality. While most of the deaths are due to ill-health, road accidents account for some.

 Accidental deaths at work place, suicides and murders are among other causes of casualties in the Gulf. The victims belong to all age groups between 20-60 plus. A considerable number of people who die in   are buried there itself as their families back home consider this as auspicious. The most common cause that is being attributed to the deaths in some of the countries is 'heart attack'. This is because no post-mortem is done. Even suspicious death cases are ascribed to 'heart attacks'. A large number of people from the state go to the Gulf in the hope of making some quick money and freeing themselves from debt burden at home.
 
 A look at the figures from the   airport gives us a clear picture of the number of bodies that arrive. As many as 200 bodies arrive every year. The number as of now is 500 in the last two and a half years. Bheem Reddy Mandha, migrant rights activist who gathered the actual figures, said working conditions result in most of the workers suffering from ill-health. While workers in big companies get health cards, the less fortunate ones suffer silently without medical aid and die. In most of the road accident cases, the victims are pedestrians. The migrant workers from the state most often fall victims as they get knocked down by speeding vehicles at places where they are not supposed to cross the roads.
 
 A Gulf worker,   from Armoor, Nizamabad, through his songs educates workers about the precautions to be taken while driving or walking on the roads. “We cannot afford to drive the way we do in Hyderabad,“ he says.
 
 Another grim fact that has come to light is suicides by women who are harassed and tortured are on the rise, especially in Kuwait.
 
