BHOPAL:   government's initiative to check sale of pattas belonging to  ,   communities at low rates seem to have caught in red-tapism. A committee formed by the state Assembly to chalk out policy on the land distribution to these marginalised communities has not farmed a single rule, courtesy apathy of the revenue department officials who have not provided details of pattas, since over a year. 

 It was in December 30 that the assembly had constituted a committee after queries from the members about how many pattas were distributed to SC, ST communities in last ten years. The question in the house was referred to distribution and sale of tribal land during Congress regime.
 
 The committee headed by former minister and MLA Jagdish Devda, has six other members including leader of opposition Bala Bachchan and Goverdhan Upadhyay (both Cong), Meena Singh, Vishnu Khatri and Lalita Yadav (all BJP) and Satya Prakash Sakhwar (BSP).
 
 After a series of meetings, the committee asked revenue department officials to furnish details of plots and pattas given to SCs and STs, in last ten years. It was also sought that how many people were distributed land in each district.
 
 “We had convened a few meetings of the committee and sought details from the revenue department on distribution of pattas to the reserved class but, we are yet to get the information. Because of the delay we could not recommend any policy regarding sale and purchase of pattas from reserved class communities,” committee in-charge, Jagdish Devda told TOI.
 
 He further said a meeting for the same has been called on January 12, which would discuss the ownership rights of beneficiaries and government role in the matter, at the urgency.
 
 Ironically, sources in the revenue department said sale of pattas given to dalits are being sold at extremely low rates. Instead of benefiting the deprived community, the government might end up making them landless again.
 
 “This is an important matter and government should take immediate action. But, I being a member of the committee am not aware of the proceedings and status of the progress made'', said acting leader of opposition Bala Bachchan. He said government should investigate the sale of land pattas at the earliest possible and frame stringent laws to check the sale at a throwaway price.
 
 It was chief minister   who had advocated the constitution of an all-party assembly committee to chalk-out a policy on land patta distribution to SC/ST communities and the sale of those properties by beneficiaries. But, the lackadaisical attitude of the officials has put the entire process in limbo.
 
 He also mentioned in the house that the pattas were distributed in the name of deprived castes and there were others who get the land. ``It has been alleged that there is some mess and confusion. But, there is a provision on ten years after getting the plot, the beneficiary who is the owner can sell the land after district collector's approval. But only is if he gets adequate money from sale of the land and not that the beneficiary again becomes landless", the chief minister had said.
 
 
