NAGPUR: The risk of heart disease could be reduced substantially by regularly walking empty stomach for half-an-hour which also helps in reducing weight, said Dr  , a consultant at  , a multidisciplinary cardiac care clinic and hospital, on Saturday.

 Speaking at a lecture on ‘Arogyam Hriday Sampada’, held by Janmanch at Dhanwate Hall, Shankar Nagar, Kukde said, “If heart diseases are not prevented now, India could be the number one country afflicted with the disease by 2020.”
 
 Kukde said that blockages in heart muscle due to presence of clot result into heart attack. High blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol, obesity and endothelial dysfunction are the risk factors that lead to heart diseases. Therefore, it is important to check cholesterol every six months, he said. Excess weight can also lead to conditions that increase chances of heart disease, he added.
 
 Elaborating further, Dr Kukde said prevention is simpler, easier and cheaper than cure. A person can be saved from heart disease through lifestyle modification which includes stress management, controlled diet, regular exercise and cardiac risk assessment that includes early detection and diagnosis. 
 
 Dr Kukde said that one way to see if your weight is healthy is to calculate your body mass index (BMI) which considers your height and weight in determining whether you have a healthy or unhealthy percentage of body fat. He also highlighted the symptoms of heart disease that includes chest pain, experiencing breathlessness, swelling on legs, chest discomfort and palpitation.
 
 He urged the people to regularly monitor blood pressure, cholesterol levels and diabetes to avoid future problems. Finding alternative ways to manage stress such as physical activity, relaxation exercises or meditation can help improve health. “Don’t wait, don’t watch but prevent heart disease through cardiac risk assessment as early as possible,” he added. 
 
  conducted the programme and also proposed a vote of thanks. Anil Kilor, president of Janmanch, addressed the guests. Krishnarao Dabholkar presided. 
 
