JAIPUR: After turning its back on the dedicated industrial zone at   near   a few months back,   is now relooking at the project as the companies in the East Asian nation seek to diversify their overseas investments and reduce dependence on China owing to recent geopolitical tensions.

 Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO) and South Korean Trade Promotion Agency (Kotra) had signed an MoU in March 2013 to set up the country-specific zone Ghilot in the lines of Japanese zone where currently more than 50 companies are operating.
 
 “It's true that there was no interest among the Korean companies in the Ghilot industrial zone. The problem, as per my understanding, was that the leasing conditions were not favourable for Korean companies. They want ownership of land instead of 99year lease. Also, they wanted the land prices at a cheaper rates,“ said Haikwang Lee, acting ambassador of Korean embassy . “But I want to revive and make the Ghilot industrial area working for Korean companies,“ Haikwang Lee said.
 
 Rajasthan government waited for more than four years for the Koreans to take adecision and did not use the land for any other purpose and it was a disappointment for the state to receive a letter from Kotra stating their unwillingness in the project.
 
 “We blocked the land, close to 300 acres, for such a long time as we were committed to the project. Even now, we are quite happy to address their concerns. But had they communicated their concerns earlier, we would have tried to address them. The land rates offered to Korean companies in Ghilot were same as the Japanese zone in Neemrana,“ told state industries minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat to TOI.
 
 South   is holding its annual caravan in Rajasthan for the first time organizing a series of business meets and cultural evenings.Besides the embassy officials, the delegation includes top officials from Kotra and representatives from 10 companies. “We want to increase the Korean pres ence in Rajasthan. There is a comprehensive approach. I heard two Korean companies are going to invest in  . There are several other opportunities for Korean companies in the state. Ghilot is just one of the reasons behind holding the caravan in Rajasthan,“ explained Lee. In recent months, South Korea's interest in India has increased because of the new stifling business conditions in China.
 
 Lee said the country is looking at Vietnam, Japan and India to expand trade and investment.
 
 “China is a factor but India is a big market with a huge potential. So, the focus is in accordance with the strong fundamentals of the country ,“ added Lee.
 
