It’s about six months ago that 20-year-old   from Aluva decided to swim, for the very first time. The girl found a special connection with water and it even made her take on a daring challenge. When she swam across the nine kilometre stretch of Vembanad Lake a few days ago in four hours and 24 minutes, Malu became the first woman ever to accomplish the feat.

 “Kerala is surrounded by water bodies and anyone here can achieve this. I guess it’s just that I’m the one who attempted it,” says the champion swimmer, casually. When she first took to swimming it was very tough, she confesses. “You have no idea how much of river water I drank in the initial days of my training,” she says laughing. But Malu didn’t give up, and in no time, she became an ace swimmer.
 
 “Within a few weeks, I started spending a lot more time in the river. On certain days, I used to start swimming around 5 am and would come out of water only by 10 am. I gradually started crossing Periyar, and would swim for up to six hours continuously. My coach Saji Valasseril then encouraged me saying that I could try swimming across Vembanad Lake, and that’s how I decided to go for it,” Malu says.
 
 Why did she decide to learn swimming in the first place? “I love learning new skills and have always been into pursuing something or the other. Swimming too happened out of such an interest. I used to feel that for someone who lives in Kerala that has several ponds, lakes and rivers, it is essential to learn swimming,” says Malu, who has just completed her B.Com.
 
 The youngster, who hails from a broken family, says she always wanted to prove that even when you don’t have a support system, you can be a winner. She apparently started working when she was barely 16, to fund her education! “I have absolutely no family support. When I went for my swimming class for the first time, the students were asked to come along with their parents. However, understanding my circumstance, my coach didn’t insist. I was charged no fees as well, and his encouragement is what helped me cross Vembanad.”
 
 Also a part-time insurance advisor who is all set to pursue higher studies, Malu is a driving instructor at such a young age. “I have license for all heavy goods and passenger vehicles like lorries and containers. I also drive two wheelers and four wheelers. And working as a driving instructor is something I enjoy,” she says.
 What next? “You live only once, right? So, I want to keep pushing my limits. I don’t know whether I can do this or not, but I want to try crossing a sea. I don’t know when or where it would take place. My decision to cross Vembanad brought in a lot of local support. I hope I can successfully cross a sea too. I also wish to write the civil service examination,” the swimmer signs off. 
 
