MUMBAI: In the already uncertain life of 17-year-old Muskaan Shaikh, a demolition came calling. Ten days ago, her shanty in Govandi’s Rafique Nagar was knocked down. For the Class 12 student, who has board exams next month, the timing could not have been worse. “Half my books are missing. I am living at a friend’s house and sharing her books,” says the teenager. 

 But her 10-year-old neighbour Mehernish Anjum is still living in her family’s demolished hutment, surrounded by rubble. “Mehernish says she won’t give up the house,” says her mother Zeenat Khan.
 
 The  , located on the north-eastern edge of Mumbai, is quite literally the zone the municipality forgot. It covers   (E),  ,  ,  ,   and  . It has among the highest slum populations in the city, with over 72.5% of its population living in slums. It was ranked the lowest in human development among the city’s 24 wards in the Mumbai Human Development Report 2009. The life expectancy at 39 years is lower than in Sierra Leone.
 
 It’s in this ward that large colonies of the poor have been resettled since the 1970s to make way for industrial expansion and later for projects like Mumbai Urban Transport Project. Migrants from the north and also the interiors of Maharashtra have also made their home here.
 
 For decades, residents of Govandi have lived next to the city’s largest dumping ground, breathing its toxic air. The shanties have little access to drinking water. Many in Shivaji Nagar have to spend Rs 2,000 per month to buy water. Almost 80% of residents are informal workers: lorry drivers, labourers, ragpickers and hawkers. The average income is as low as Rs 8,000 a month, according to a 2015 TISS survey. Demonetisation, which has hurt the informal trade has made life more difficult. Khan’s family used to earn Rs 350 a day by hawking clothes. Now, their income is just Rs 100/day. The ban on ragpickers at Deonar dumping ground has also sealed this avenue for work.
 
 Why has M-East ward barely improved in decades? “It’s the political denial of development in the richest municipality in the country,” says Arun Kumar, CEO of the NGO Apnalaya that works here. Many feel that the ward’s local representation is at odds with the BMC which has been ruled by the Shiv Sena-BJP for almost three decades. But sitting corporator from the Samajwadi Party (SP) Rais Shaikh denies this. “We have not had a problem getting money for development,” he says.
 
 The ward also has a large Muslim base and is a bastion of SP in the city. Of the 13 sitting corporators, as many as four belong to the SP. Its sitting MLA is Abu Asim Azmi from SP. The rest of the political representation is splintered with three corporators from the Shiv Sena, two from the Congress and one each from the BJP, Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh and Peasants and Workers Party. 
 
 Not surprisingly, this is a ward which the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is targeting this election, hoping to make inroads within the Muslim population and cut into SP vote. “We have opened four offices in the ward and our cadre is motivated. We hope to do well here,” says AIMIM MLA from Byculla Waris Pathan.
 
 
