NEW DELHI: In their debut season,   made a telling impact winning nine league matches in the 2016   and made it to the playoffs with ease. Riding on the star power of   and Brendon McCullum, the balanced unit Gujarat were a force to reckon with in the previous edition. This year, they released only eight players retaining most of their core team and heading in to the   2017 auction, Gujarat will be eying to find replacements for the injured Dale Steyn and Dwayne Bravo. 
 
 Talking exclusively to TOI Sports, Gujarat Lions team owner and Intex Technologies'   opens up about, among other things, the team's plan going in to the auction and the impact IPL has had on the brand value of Intex.
  
 
 
  
 Absolutely, it was kind of a dream run. Coming in for the first year we were the only team to win nine league matches and that was huge for us. We were quite happy with our performance given that it was our first season. 
  
 
 
  
 When we brought the team we were quite aware of the fact that we are taking it for only two years. But it was kind of a win-win situation for us. We got to understand the process, got the taste and complete feel of the IPL and probably at one-tenth of the cost of other franchisees, because they are paying this for the last ten years. So this was a conscious decision for us and we are happy and just looking forward to the season. How to continue or not continue, those discussions will only happen after the IPL gets over.
  
 Regarding the auction I keep telling everyone that T20 is a fearless game and you need to have a really good batting side, but you need to balance it out with strong bowlers. I am a firm believer in promoting lot of Indian talent, so our strategy will be the same as last year. We have retained our core group. However, there are certain areas we have to work on like the bowling department. Bravo is injured so we need to have a strong allrounder as a replacement for him till the time he is fit. We will be looking at strong Indian bowlers and good allrounders. 
  
 
  
  
 Most of the decisions are taken by the coach, but as per my understanding the prime reason was injury (sustained against Australia in November last year). Also I think South Africa might be playing a series that time so the players won't be available for the whole tournament.
  
 
 
  
 There is just one goal - we are looking to lift the trophy. That is the main and only objective for Gujarat Lions. Rest of the things will follow in concurrence with that goal. As a responsible owner we feel that we need to support the team members, the squad, support staff and give them maximum resources possible. That’s our endeavour and that is what we have tried to do. 
  
 
 
  
 It has been unbelievably fantastic. We have seen a great push in our sales, we have seen great change of perception amongst the trade partners, among the consumers. There is a better connect for sure. In India nothing sells better than cricket and I keep telling everybody that the moment we bought an IPL team everybody started noticing us and the perception of the brand completely changed, specifically in Gujarat. Sales have moved up, the confidence of channels partners and consumers have moved up. They can relate it with brand Intex whenever they step in a store. So this move has proved a complete success story for us.
  
 
 
  
 There were lot of factors involved actually. The prime reason we brought the team was to promote brand Intex. But if you have a personal inclination towards sports which I have, it definitely adds a lot of value and gives you a higher and a better kick. If you are personally invested, you feel interested in it - you feel the need to involve yourself more. I would say it becomes more exciting and more interesting and since I have the passion for sports it is a great place to be in. 
  
 
 
  
 Kaif is an extremely talented and successful Indian player. He has been part of many crucial wins for India too. He was the one I remember during our time who set high standards in fielding and he has got a very positive image as far as I see it. He has captained sides in Ranji Trophy as well. So with all these aspects put together he will be a great asset to the team, especially the domestic talent, he can pull them together and get the best out of them. 
  
 
 
  
 We all have become good friends. Everyone has got a lot of support and they're quite happy being in Gujarat this year. All of them are pumped. Raina keep telling me that we fell short of one or two aspects in the semi-finals (last year) and the team needs to do well to improve on them. Everyone is geared up for the season and personally I am looking forward to it with a lot of excitement and optimism. 
  
 
 
  
 100 percent. You can definitely expect a lot of new things in sports coming from Intex. Unfortunately, it is only cricket that has taken off in India, but I personally want to promote other sports and whatever possible I can do I will do. Super Fight League again was an effort to promote mixed martial arts. Talking about the West, see how MMA has done in the US, with the UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship); it just got sold off at 4 billion dollars and apart from the financial model the sport itself gained a lot of traction.
 
