NEW DELHI: As Delhi shivered on the coldest day of the season, the   saw the start of the sixth part of the monsoon session. As things stand, Delhi won’t see a   session at all and move straight to the budget session, likely in the first week of March.

 The matter was raised by leader of opposition   who termed the current   unconstitutional. “What’s the reason for carrying on with the monsoon session? There is no sense in dividing one session into multiple parts. In fact, LG should have been invited to address this session as it’s the first of the year,” he said. “One of the reasons could be to keep   MLA O P Sharma out of the House for as long as possible. He was suspended for two sessions in 2016. As the monsoon session is not over yet, he will have to miss the budget session too,” Gupta added.
 
  rebel MLA Pankaj Pushkar claimed the session was being used to prepare ground for AAP’s foray into municipal corporations, with polls scheduled for April. “The session was called at a notice of just two days. Less than 24 hours were given for starred questions while a short-duration discussion on municipal corporations went on for more than two hours,” said Pushkar.
 
 While AAP rubbished Pushkar’s claims, Speaker R N Goel himself issued a rebuttal to Gupta’s allegations. “He (Gupta) is ignorant of Rule 17 (1), which permits the sittings of session of the legislative assembly, when not prorogued, to be resumed in parts. Identical rules exist for Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and state legislatures. On his second charge pertaining to LG... inviting him to address the session would have been a violation of the rules. The resumed session on Tuesday is not the first session of the new calendar year, but merely a spillover of the fourth session.”
 
 The assembly secretariat explained that there was nothing in the rule books that defined a session as monsoon, winter or budget. “This is nomenclature that has evolved over time. When a session has not been prorogued, or officially ended, the government can reconvene at a short notice. For a new session, it would have to take permission from LG. In this situation, when Rule 17 (1) comes into play, the cabinet can decide to convene a session and requests the Speaker to call the session,” said sources.
 
 
