BUNGA SAHIB(ROPAR): BSP founder  's younger sister   has had some high-profile visitors lately. Top leaders of both the Congress and AAP have met her for an endorsement, but the 72-year-old is keeping her cards close to her chest.

 It isn't as if her support will ensure Dalits swerving towards a party in big numbers, but in a tight contest any shift is more than welcome. At 31.9%, Punjab has one of the highest population of Dalits in the country in percentage.
 
 While Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi met the family two weeks ago, AAP supremo   tried reaching out to them in March last year on Kanshi Ram's birth anniversary .
 
 Still living in Kanshi Ram's maternal village Bunga Sahib, Kaur told TOI, “We are not against any political party but on making a vote appeal to followers of “veer ji's“ ideology, we are yet to make up our mind. We are taking feedback from other members of Kanshi Ram Foundation,“ she said. Kaur is chairperson of the foundation.
 
 “The objective is that those who ditched Kanshi Ram should be defeated politically and we have no expectations from   . One thing that members of Dalit Samaj' should do is not to get lured by money or liquor and vote on merit,“ she added.
 
 Kaur rued that after her brother, no Dalit leader managed to reach his stature and this led to divisions within Valmikis and Rai Sikhs in Punjab. “But it is not true that only Dalit politicians can do justice to the community's aspirations. What we want is effective steps to ensure safety of Dalit families and that they are not victimized by the privileged class,“ she said.
 
 Lakhvir Singh Khawaspura, nephew of Kanshi Ram, who is secretary of the foundation, added, “Our family is not seeking candidature or grants from any party . Therefore, our only objective is that if our support for a party can help get additional votes, the decision should be well thought of.“
 
 Singh rued that Kanshi Ram was not awarded the Bharat Ratna by successive governments. “The matter was taken up with both Congress and BJP governments at the Centre in the past,“ he said.
 
 While vising the family , Kejriwal had demanded that the country' highest civilian award should be bestowed on the Dalit icon. The same day Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, a Dalit leader himself, too had echoed the demand.
 
 Recalling Rahul Gandhi's visit, family members said he wanted to know why the elephant represented to the Dalit community . “We told him that despite being huge in size, the elephant is an animal that is humble and is not aware of its real strength. The same is true of the Dalit community ,“ he said.
 
 Kaur recalled how Kanshi Ram, ten years elder to her, always took care of her and would share his milk jar with her.“Growing up, he was a strong boy and would often beat other guys in the village in fights.Parents of defeated rivals would feed them lots of ghee and milk but “veer ji“ would again make them bite dust. I have fond memories of him,“ she said.
 
 Mayawati remembered with vengeance
 
 Visitors to the house of Kanshi Ram's sister are surprised to see a large sized picture of BSP supremo Mayawati hanging on the wall. The picture has the former Uttar Pradesh CM surrounded by her gunmen. “It keeps reminding us that an alternate to the BSP chief has to be found as she did not follow the path shown by her mentor. The picture is to ensure that we should not lose sight of the goal. However, we personally don't have any political ambitions,“ she said.
 
