CHENNAI: Veteran batsman  , who led Hyderabad last season, has decided "not to play" the upcoming first-class season. However, he clearly mentioned that he "isn't announcing" retirement at the moment.

 "I did get some offers. But I haven't taken it up as of now. I don't think I will be playing the domestic season this year. I'm going to play  . I'm taking one thing at a time. But I'm not announcing retirement. I will decide a bit later," said  , who made his first-class debut in 2000-2001.
 
 Badrinath, who will be leading   this TNPL, stated that his decision to not play first-class was as a result of a combination of factors. "I have a young family. I haven't had any break since my debut in first-class season. I have been playing as a professional for the last three years which meant a lot of travelling. And last year I completed 10,000 runs.
 
 "At this stage of my career, I know I don't have a chance to play international cricket again. I also had a tennis elbow injury last year and took steroid injection to complete the season. I have all these in mind," said the 36-year-old, who has 32 hundreds and 45 fifties in 145 first-class matches at an average of 54.49.
 
 Badrinath has played two Tests for India, seven ODIs and one T20I match. He represented Tamil Nadu for 14 years before shifting his allegiance to   during the 2014-2015 Ranji Trophy season. For two seasons he led Vidarbha and then moved on to Hyderabad. He had played 95 matches for Chennai Super Kings.
 
 Shifting focus to the TNPL, Badrinath said his team has all bases covered heading into the tournament.
 
 "The guys are looking confident. Many of our guys are in good form and they have been doing well in the first division. Last year, we missed out on the top four by run-rate margin. It's a short tournament. The important thing is to start well and keep the momentum going. That will be key," added Badrinath, who tried his hand at commentary for the Champions Trophy.
 
 There has been a lot of talk about the presence of outstation players in the TNPL. However, the   didn't give its nod regarding the participation of outstation stars in the TNCA tournament.
 
 According to Badrinath, outstation players will definitely improve the standard of cricket but added that their presence "is not needed" for the tournament.
 
 "There are two sides to it. If outstation players come and play the tournament, the quality of the tournament will improve, which ultimately benefits the players who are playing. At the end of the day more players from TN are going to be involved. If you see, last year people who we didn't know earlier (such as Natarajan) played in the  .
 
 "If outstation players come, the standard will improve, but if you ask whether outstation players are needed, then I would say no," he added.
 
