NEW DELHI: The murder of a city Bahujan Samaj Party politician and property dealer, reported by TOI on Monday, took a chilling turn when his business partner told cops that he had killed the man and wiped out his family in batches, committing six murders over three separate days since April 20. 

 The victim,  , was in jail when the alleged killer —   alias   — made his first moves. By the time Rana was released on parole on May 17, his wife and four children had been killed without anyone getting to know of their fate. Rana, who filed a missing report on his family after his release, was Bunty’s last target. 
 
 On the night of May 19, alleged contract killers cornered the property dealer-turned-politician in the bathroom of his house in Sant Nagar, near north Delhi’s Burari, and shot him thrice, killing him on the spot. 
 
 After 12 hours, Bunty himself called police and told them that somebody had shot Rana. The motive for the ghastly crimes, cops say, was dispute over money and properties worth crores which the two had allegedly grabbed together. 
 
 Apart from Bunty, police have arrested his friend Dipak and the two alleged contract killers, Firoze and Zulfikar. DCP (north) Jatin Narwal confirmed the developments to TOI. 
 
 Police are now taking Bunty and others to the places where he has claimed to have buried the bodies. One place is along the Meerut-Hardwar highway and the other in Delhi. 
 
 Cops and forensic officials have recovered the bodies of Rana’s two sons from a tank in Bunty’s office and sent them for autopsy.
 
 The corpses were buried five feet below the ground with salt to make them rot faster. Forensic officials will try to exhume the bodies of Rana’s wife and daughters and a DNA match will be conducted to identify them. 
 
 Rana was arrested in January and sent to Tihar jail on rape charges. According to Bunty’s disclosure, he took Rana’s wife, Sonia alias Ishrat, and two daughters, aged 17 and 18, to Meerut on April 20 in his SX4 car. On their way, he took a detour to isolated fields near village Daurala and shot them dead with the help of accomplices. He then buried their bodies and returned to Delhi. 
 
 On April 21, Bunty called Rana’s two sons, aged 19 and 22, to his office after they called him up enquiring about their mother and sisters. The sons, Aaqib and Shaqib, were taken to the first floor of the office located in Bhagat Colony, Burari, and brutally thrashed them. 
 
 They were then throttled to death and their bodies dumped into a dry underground tank at the office. The killer poured perfume over the bodies and sealed the tank with cement. 
 
 The building was then locked up to prevent anyone from discovering the crime. Rana, meanwhile, was told that his wife and children had mysteriously disappeared. Since then, Rana had been trying to get bail to find out what had happened. 
 
 Finally, Rana was released on parole on May 17. Rana along with Bunty, went to police station the next day and lodged a complaint regarding the disappearance of his family. After Rana’s murder on May 19, cops decided to question Bunty and his friend Dipak, the two who had ‘discovered’ Rana’s body. 
 
 “Initially, they claimed that they found him dead when they came to meet him. However, the two gave contradictory answers when questioned separately. They later broke down and confessed to killing Rana and his family over the period of one month,” DCP Narwal said. The accused were produced in court and taken on three days police remand for further questioning.
 
