CHENNAI: Four years after an  , on passenger comfort in AC coaches of trains between Chennai and Bengaluru revealed that unclean toilets and poor quality of food were the biggest grievances, nothing seems to have changed on the ground. 

 The Double Decker train has been introduced and number of passengers has increased but for those frequenting the route on any one of the trains including  ,  ,   or Shatabdi, food and hygiene are still a problem. "I usually travel to Chennai for work and return the same evening. Though the ticket pricing is high as it includes meals, the quality of food has gone from bad to worse. You get better upma in a roadside eatery, and the soggy omelettes are just inedible," said N James, a businessman.
 
 In Shatabdi, which is supposed to cater to high-end customers, the toilets are hardly cleaned making them unusable. "The railways should organise a meeting with the passengers to find out which services need to be improved. Railways should not take passengers for granted. The reason why buses of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) between Bengaluru and Chennai are popular is because of the quality of services they offer," said James. 
 
 The study titled 'An approach to prioritise customer-based, cost effective service enhancements' was published in 'The  ' in 2016. Co-authored by academicians including professors from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB) and  , USA, the study surveyed 325 passengers aboard air-conditioned compartments of multiple day trains operating between Chennai and Bengaluru. 
 
 While cleaner toilets, greater safety and quality food were the top priorities for passengers, it found that on-board internet/wi-fi access has little traction in the section that ferries a chunk of information technology professionals.
 
 As part of the study, commuters were asked to list their priorities in services and rank them. Based on it, the surveyors arrived at 19 service improvements that needed improvement. 
 
 V Seenu Srinivasan, professor from Stanford University and one of the co-authors of the study, said respondents rated cleanliness highest among the 19 services that required improvement. "High priority was for cleaner toilets and low priority was given for greater luggage space. Shorter travel time was important but was not among the pressing demands," he said.
 
 The researchers also conducted a similar survey on 16 railway officials to understand the expenditure for enhancing these services. "Railway officials told us that reducing travel time is more costly and difficult. Cleaning toilets is much cheaper," said Srinivasan, also an adjunct professor at Great Lakes Institute of Management, Chennai.
 
 Replying to a question on what developments the railways should prioritise, he said, "If railways has limited budget, will they be spending on bullet trains or clean toilets? The simple answer is clean the toilets first."
 
