NEW DELHI: Family members of 24-year-old Sompal searched for him at   for four days after he went “missing“ from the police station.When they asked the cops about his whereabouts, they were told that he had been released after questioning. They were informed about his death by two policemen who had come to their house asking for Sompal's photograph on Sunday afternoon.

 The victim's father,  , said that they were asked to visit the mortuary and handed over the body without any explanation about the cause of death. Sompal's brother, Tinu, said that the injuries on the body suggested that he was beaten with a stick or a   as both knees were broken and there were severe bruises on his face.“They might have thrown him off the terrace to make it look like an accident,“ Tinu said.
 
 Tinu, a fruit vendor at Azadpur Mandi, said that the constables accused of thrashing his brother had been threatening to book him in a false case if he did not pay them money . Police, however, maintain that Sompal was called for qu estioning as he had three cases of fights and brawls registered against him.
 
 Dayaluram, however, said that small scuffles or arguments usually break out between vendors outside the mandi over parking their carts. On December 28, Sompal also had a similar fight that could have been resolved by the policemen at the spot. “He was taken to the police station as he had refused to pay the constables,“ he said.
 
 Sompal came to Delhi from Indore a year ago after getting married. He set up his cart to earn a living and stayed with his family at a shelter inside the wholesale market. Another family member said that it was unlikely that Sompal would attempt to flee from the police station by climbing on the terrace as he was not athletic and even had a limp.
 
 Police have lifted evidence from the spot where Sompal's body was found. Sources said that access to the fourth floor of the police station is limited and a person can only climb upstairs if he knows about the interiors.
 
