Trichy: A youth who tried to molest an eleven-year-old school girl was let off by police in Perambalur district after he sought pardon from the victim’s parents and fell at their feet. The curious turn of events incidentally involved two communities in Arumbavoor whose members decided to “resolve the matter amicably”. 

 According to Arumbavoor police, Yasar, the 23-year-old unemployed youth, has been stalking the minor on her way to school. On Tuesday, he attempted to forcefully take the minor girl on his bike when she was on her way back home from school. The girl managed to wriggle out of his clutches and on reaching home narrated the incident to her parents who lodged a complaint with the police.
 
 The police received the complaint for which a community service register (CSR) receipt was also issued to the parent. Following this, members of both sides were called to the police station for investigation. However, the investigating officer claimed that the youth while acknowledging the crime “fell at the feet of the girl’s parents thrice” seeking pardon. Following this, the family members of the youth and the victim agreed to sort out the issue and take back the complaint. The accused was strictly warned against disturbing the girl. The victim’s parents chose to take back the complaint after the incident and the accused was let off. The decision was in a way a deliberate attempt to avoid communal unrest in the village where both communities co-exist. 
 
 While the police are silent on making the accused fall at the feet of the victim’s parents they said that both the sides chose to reach a consensus and didn’t want to drag the issue further. “We are ready to file the case but someone has to lodge a complaint,” said the investigating officer adding that the minor was not raped and that the victim’s parents were ready to take back the complaint. They also rejected the claims that Yasar tried to abduct her and that he was only teasing her over the past few days. 
 
 Police sources say that the unemployed youth has been stalking the minor though he had no history of crime. “A case against him may turn him into an accused and make the minor vulnerable to further victimisation,”an officer said. 
 
 
