PANAJI: The   (BJP) state election committee, on Friday, decided to   and remained indecisive over the candidature of the remaining five MLAs, including that of  . 

 The committee headed by defence minister Manohar Parrikar cleared 21 names including those of Mauvin Godinho, Dattaprasad Naik, Rajesh Patnekar, Damodar Naik alias Damu, and Arthur D’Silva. Godinho, former Congress MLA from Dabolim, was recently inducted into the party. 
 
 Of the 21 names cleared, 11 are from North Goa and 10 from South Goa.
 
 The committee also remained indecisive about Priol, Ponda and Navelim.
 
 The five constituencies with sitting BJP MLAs where names are yet to be finalized include Mayem, Pernem, Canacona, Sanvordem and St Andre.
 
 In Mayem, BJP wants to replace speaker Anant Shet with former Congress candidate Pravin Zantye. In Pernem, the party is contemplating changing environment and forest minister Rajendra Arlekar, in Canacona they want to replace sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar with former BJP Canacona MLA Vijay Pai Khot, and in Savordem MLA Ganesh Gaonkar is being looked to be replaced by BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar. Since St Andre MLA Vishnu Surya Wagh is not able to contest the election, he is also likely to be replaced.
 
  Priol, Ponda and Navelim proved a problem as their respective mandals had proposed more than one name.
 
 A BJP senior leader told TOI that they received four names for each of the three constituencies. For Priol, the names of Sandeep Nigle, Shivaji Gaude, former MLA Vishwas Satarkar and Satish Madkaikar were put up; for Navelim, the names of ZP member Ulhas Tuvekar, BJP minority leader Shaikh Jina, Paresh Naik and Damodar Naik were suggested. The names of Sunil Desai, Sandeep Khandeparkar, Vishwanath Dalvi and Venkatesh Naik were proposed for the Ponda constituency. 
 
 South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar told reporters that the state election committee will hold a second meeting on January 9 to clear the names of probable candidates for other constituencies and added that all names will be recommended to the central parliamentary board, which will meet on January 10. 
 
