TRICHY:   will soon sport a new look as part of the beautification of stations across the country. The plan is to have wall paintings depicting the culture and tradition of the state as well as heritage spots and create environmental awareness too. The process will be extended to other stations also in the   division. 

 Wall painters from across the state have been roped in to plaster the walls with images of important places in the central region. The initiative will see the region’s rich heritage etched on the premises, refreshment outlets and parking facilities. Images of tiger in the forest, towering temples with magnificent architecture, Chola architecture, natural scenary and other places of importance are currently being painted. The beautification work is being carried out with the Rs 38 crore fund allotted by the railway board for   to execute passenger amenities. . 
 
 The officials said that currently a team from Chennai which comprises experts in wall paintings has been brought here to execute the process after surveying places of local importance. The railway authorities are planning to paint various stations across the division by roping in private players and sponsors. Similar work was started at Srirangam railway station last week, they said.
 
 Meanwhile, Trichy railway division has commenced an exercise to clean up small stations which are in a state of neglect due to stoppage of short distance passengers’ trains. Railway authorities have joined hands with the general public in the respective areas for this purpose. The required minimum amenities such as drinking water and parking would be handed over to them to ensure that the stations remain clean. 
 
 A total of 29 halt stations across Trichy railway division are being given a  . These include several stations which are in remote villages with minimum passenger activity. Work has already begun in all stations after discussion with the locals and also by appointing an agent to clean the premises. The work began on July 18 and would be completed during the first week of August, the officials said. 
 
 
