CHENNAI: The cancellation of the   byelection has meant that around Rs 2 crore in taxpayers' money has gone down the drain.

 While the state government spent Rs 2 crore till Sunday night -when the E lection Commission announcement was made -political parties' losses were much higher. Last year, around Rs 6 crore was lost when elections to the Thanjavur and   assembly constituencies were cancelled due to corruption.
 
 The overall expense of some parties and their candidates, including the money spent for bribing voters, ranged from Rs 1 crore to Rs 90 crore. Some smaller parties, however, felt the pinch. The CPM, while welcoming countermanding of the poll, has demanded that the EC compensate the party for the expenses incurred.
 
 “Most of the Rs 2 crore spent was for training government employees on how to use EVMs, bringing central forces and using them as surveillance teams,“ said a senior   official.
 
 Following complaints of   ( ) functionaries distributing money to voters, the EC wanted more central forces well before voting day. “By April 1, three companies of central forces were providing security cover, especially at sensitive polling booths. The expenditure in RK Nagar was higher than for byelections in other states,“ said the official.
 
 The expenditure limit for an assembly constituency in large states is Rs 16 lakh. Parties like the DMK and the two factions of the AIADMK had been spending on campaigning as well as on bringing workers from various districts. “Each day we have to spend on workers, providing food, arranging for travel and accommodation. Thus depending on the number of cadres, the total money will also go up. As of now we have not calculated the total expenditure,“ said a DMK legislator. The two AIADMK camps also spent similarly on cadres and campaign.
 
 “The CPM is not like other parties which can spend as much they want but show lower expenditure. In our party, we spend the money we get as donations from door to door. At the end of each day we submit the total expenditure to the expenditure observer as well as to the returning officer,“ said former CPM legislator A Soundararajan.
 
 He wanted the government to give back the money incurred by the party. “For the next election or byelection, we will have to again go from door to door seeking donations,“ he said.
 
