LUCKNOW: The   ( ) on Tuesday arrested two youths from Kanpur district allegedly for planning   activities. Believed to be members of the Islamic State-related module active in Kanpur, the 26-year-old youth Asif Iqbal   the cousin of  , the alleged IS-inspired terror operative who was gunned down in Kakori area of Lucknow, on March 7. The other youth, aged 27, was identified as Mohammad Atif. Both of them stayed at Jajmau locality under the jurisdiction of Chakeri police station in Kanpur and were known to each other.

 The family said the two had been framed as they were not willing to turn approvers before the court on NIA’s insistence. Atif’s elder brother Aquib said, “On May 3, we called advocate Mohammad Shoaib from NGO   to help us. We had called media and told them that my brother Atif was under duress.”
 
 A team led by NIA SP Deepak Kumar arrested the duo from Chakeri area at 4.15pm on Tuesday on charges of waging war against the country. The duo was booked under the IPC sections 121, 121A, 123, 124A and sections 16, 18, 23 and 38 under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and would be produced at the designated court in Lucknow on Wednesday.
 
 The two youths came under the lens of intelligence agencies soon after Saifullah was killed in an encounter that lasted for more than 11 hours. Saifullah was part of the nine-member ‘Khorasan module’ which said to have roots in Kanpur. The same module was accused of orchestrating blast in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train on the same day (March 7).
 
 Later, the MP Police, anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of UP police and the NIA arrested eight others, including a retired   employee Ghaus Mohammad, besides Mohammad Faizal and Mohammad Azhar. The trio, along with Saifiullah, stayed in Jajmau locality and came in contact while visiting mosques.
 
 Advocate Mohammad Shoaib from Rihai Manch said he had forwarded representation to various government authorities about the threat looming over Asif and Atif. “Being Saifullah’s cousin and a young man, Asif was picked up a lot of times by intelligence agencies. The policemen tried to convince Asif to testify against Ghaus, Faizal and Azhar before court and dub them members of the Khorasan module. He refused to give in,” said Shoaib, who was camping in Kanpur.
 
