NEW DELHI: India described as “an imaginary lie’’ Pakistan’s assertion that it received an offer to swap alleged Indian spy   for a terrorist accused of perpetrating the   Army Public School attack in 2014.

 “You have already seen a press release issued by the Afghan National Security Adviser’s office. If you have gone through the press release, it seems this is one more addition to the long list of imaginary lies and stories created by the Pakistani establishment,” MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said at a weekly media briefing here.
 
 “You have seen what happened at the UN General Assembly— how a fake picture was shown to be from India but it turned out to be from another country. So, another lie has been added to the series of lies,” added Kumar.
 
 Pakistan foreign minister Khawaja Asif had claimed Islamabad received an offer to swap Jadhav for a terrorist behind the Peshawar Army Public School attack in 2014. The terrorist, he said, was now in Afghanistan’s custody.
 
 Speaking at Asia Society in New York, Khawaja said on Wednesday, “The (Afghan) National Security Adviser told me we can exchange him (Peshawar attacker) for the terrorist you have, which is Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Asif said, without revealing the name of the terrorist. It was also immediately unclear when had the Afghan NSA made him the offer.
 
 According to some media reports, as TOI reported on Friday, Afghan forces had captured Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan chief  .
 
 A source had told TOI the Afghan NSA could have been hinting at swapping Fazlullah, wanted in Pakistan, in exchange for Jadhav to Pakistan’s foreign minister.
 
 Contradicting Asif’s claim, office of Afghan National Security Adviser Mohammad Haneef Atmar issued a statement saying there was no mention or reference of India or an Indian citizen during his meeting with the Pakistani foreign minister on September 21 in New York. The statement by Atmar’s office said the two sides, during the meeting, had detailed discussions on a variety of issues including bilateral cooperation.
 
 “The two sides also discussed sanctuaries in Pakistan and exchange of the top five   leaders detained in Pakistan.
 
 There was no mention or reference of India or an Indian citizen,” it said, adding Atmar was hopeful that the record of the meetings are reported accurately and facts are not “misconstrued”.
 
 
 
