Kolkata: From raising a storm on social media to planning crazy success parties, cricket fans in India did everything possible to celebrate the Test series win against Australia, but how about those living Down Under? With the atmosphere charged — on and off the field — specially after Virat Kohli ‘unfriended’ Aussie players, were they able to let their emotions flow? Unhindered, said fans based in Australia. Some were even congratulated by their Aussie friends.

 Despite reports of recent racial attacks on Indians in Australia, Melbourne-based cancer scientist A Raja Choudhury said celebrating the win Down Under wasn’t difficult. “Many of my friends get together at a local pub and watch the game and celebrate every boundary and wicket,” Choudhury said. 
 
 Sydney-based Gurnam Singh, who is the CEO of World Cricket Fans and Swamy Army, had visited Kolkata last year for the T20 World Cup finals. On Tuesday evening, he went to the pub in Sydney along with 20 friends to celebrate. “It’s been a pretty good series. Living in Australia doesn’t mean we can’t celebrate if India win against Australia. If Australia plays any other team apart from India, we always support Australia,” Singh said. 
 
 Meanwhile, a section of the Australian media has labelled Kohli “classless” and “childish” on Wednesday. Some have taken umbrage at India’s apparent snub when invited to join the tourists for a beer. “Perth is the city of Adam Gilchrist. Everything is cool here. My Australian colleagues brush aside such reportage on Kohli as media sensationalism,” said Perth-based IT professional Avra Banerjee.
 
 At his office, there are big LCD screens installed that are visible from every desk. “Cricket, Australian football and news are telecast live even during office hours. Every match of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy has been telecast. We have 12 Indians working here and all of us were glued to the screen,” he recounted.
 
 Once India won, Banerjee and his Indian friends started cheering. “Our Aussie friends congratulated us. One of them came up to me and said: ‘We will take the trophy next time, buddy’. Another colleague shook my hand and asked if I was a permanent resident. When I said yes, he replied: ‘So, I understand you still support India as you are Indian citizen. But what will you do when you receive the Australian citizenship?’ I replied, ‘I would be a winner irrespective of whether India or Australia win!”
 
 If at all there is any tension, Singh insists that IPL will offer the best balm to frayed nerves. “So many Australians play in Virat’s team. Smith is the captain of the team in which Rahane plays. Once IPL starts, everything will cool down,” Singh said.
 
 Sheba Nandkeolyar, the founder CEO of an advertising and marketing firm, spent the evening at a Canberra restaurant surrounded by several Aussie businessmen. “Champagne was on and everybody enjoyed the togetherness. I think it was more about a good game rather than rubbing the fact that there were winners or losers. Obviously, I was very happy for India but equally happy that Australia played very well too,” she recounted. On being asked how Australians reacted to India’s celebration of victory, she said, “Aussies were a bit quieter having thought they would get past this one. But they don’t hold on to grievances for long.”
 
 
