BENGALURU: Few things can provide more respite from the sweltering heat than a gentle breeze. But, the prospect of a wind slithering into their homes through the windows evokes, not joy, but trepidation in the minds of   residents.

 The breeze wafting through the area is laden with the   emanating from the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation (KCDC) plant situated right at the heart of the locality, and the residents have nowhere to hide from it. Once a matter of pride for the resident associations of the area, the plant has now turned into a fertile breeding ground for insects and pathogens, which have seen many citizens contract respiratory problems. The plant has also encroached on lakes, and left the surrounding environment polluted.
 
 Determined to put an end to this problem, hundreds of HSR Layout residents gave work a miss on Monday. They continued their protest against the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which started on Sunday night, demanding the closure of the plant. The protesters alleged that the amount of   being processed at the unit exceeded the stipulated limit. They further pointed out that the agency had turned a deaf ear to their suggestions to contain the stench.
 
 On Sunday, the residents stopped eight garbage trucks, and pledged to continue their agitation till BBMP addressed the issue.
 
 BBMP joint commissioner (health and solid waste management) Sarfaraz Khan met the residents on Monday. He took a tour of the locality to understand the situation.
 
 Pointing out that the civic agency had rescheduled meetings with the residents on three prior occasions, president of the residents’ welfare association Kavitha Reddy said, “We need to know how the BBMP renewed the plant’s licence when it was pointed out that it had encroached five acres of lakes in the area. We are willing to work with the agency, and revive the lake, which will, in turn lead to an improvement in the water table levels.”
 
 Ghosh KB moved into HSR Layout with his family from Kalyan Nagar 10 years ago. Now, with his seven-year-old girl in need of constant nebulisation, he regrets the decision. “Even if she spends 20 minutes outside, she gets sick. Doctors ascribe the illness to environmental issues,” he said.
 
 Residents alleged that nearly 250-350 tonnes of garbage was being dumped at the plant, which is beyond the plant’s capacity. They further pointed out that, though the plant was meant to compose garbage of just HSR Layout and Bommanahalli areas, trucks that were bound for the plant on Sunday came from Koramangala and south Bengaluru areas too.
 
 “We saw that many trucks were driving past the weighing unit, and going directly to the dumping site. We even suggested to the BBMP that a sewage treatment plant be integrated with the unit at a lower cost. We identified the organisation to carry out the project too, but to no avail,” Reddy said.
 
 Nageshappa D, a shopkeeper in Kudlu, said, “The situation has worsened in the recent past. Many people have left the area as a result, but I have been living here for many years. How can I abandon it and go away? We hope the BBMP takes measures to fix the problems.”
 
 Residents, young and old, expressed hope of BBMP heeding their suggestions. But they added that their protest wouldn’t end till their demands were met. “We need the right to breathe clean and fresh air,” Kamesh Rastogi said.
 
 “Sarfaraz Khan acknowledged the gravity of the problem, but said the plant could not be shifted immediately owing to the absence of an alternative site.But he told us that he would help find an alternative location, and promised us a meeting with the BBMP commissioner,” said Anis Padela, a resident. 
 
 Khan also said that he would ensure removal of the piles of residual derived fuel over the next three months, and step up odour-control measures.
 
 “Shutting down the plant is not possible” said Veerabhadra Swamy, BBMP joint commissioner managing director of the plant.
 
 “We will be working towards improving the lake. We will make arrangements for a lake survey within a month. Additionally, we will clear the existing stock of garbage (about 20,000 tonnes) over the next two months” he added.
 
