They say that the chilli, like the potato and tomato, was brought to our shores by firangs from the Americas. Those conquistadors — the Spanish and the Portuguese — sailing in on their schooners, clippers and frigates, touched down in India and brought with them these fruits of labour from the New World. With the infusion of these vegetables — especially the chilli — Indian cooking techniques were never the same again. 
While that’s history for you, here is a lesson in statistics. India produces the highest quantity of chillies in the world. We are also the world’s biggest exporter and consumer of the product. Over one-third of the country’s chilli is produced in one region — the   belt, which also gives us one of our most prized peppers, the diabolically hot Guntur chilli. 
 
 
  
  
 
 From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, Nagaland to  , our soil produces some of the world’s most bewildering variety of chillies. Take the examples of the Kashmiri mirch (flavourful yet zingy) or the byadagi from Karnataka (pungent and eye-watering). And then there are those northeast bombshells — the dalle from Sikkim and the dhani lanka from Meghalaya, Tripura and Bengal. 
 And finally, above all else, is the bhoot jolokia. Cultivated across the northeast, especially in  , Nagaland and Manipur, it is also called naga mirch, u-morok and ominously, the ghost chilli. Consistently proven to be one of the hottest peppers in the world, it was at one time being considered for use in tear gas shells. A bite of the bhoot jolokia can numb your mind and transport you into an otherworldly zone of intensely painful euphoria. It’s not for the faint-hearted. All of this is to point out that whether the chilli came from   or wherever else, nowhere is it as celebrated as in India. From curries and pastes, to pickles and salads, there’s some mirchi in almost everything we eat. Chillies are a rich source of Vitamin C and are loaded with antioxidants that help fight cancer. They act as digestives and have no calories. It’s time we stopped being apologetic about our hot and pungent food and embraced its fiery goodness. After all, what’s life without a little mirchi? 
 
 This is amma’s special recipe from the kitchens of Andhra and its not for the faint-hearted. Andhra cuisine is famous for its spicy dishes and mamsam guntu, as the name suggests, uses the eye-watering Guntur chilli in liberal doses. Made with chicken or mutton, this delicacy really rubs it in with a pungent mix of chillies and ground condiments and also a generous helping of green chillies to top up the heat. As you bite into the succulent pieces of meat, be sure you’ll shed tears. Whether these are of joy or regret depends on your capacity to weather hot food. You can try this dish with steamed rice and a dollop of ghee. Trust us, it will be an unforgettable experience. 
 
  
  
 Taco is a traditional Mexican dish composed of a corn or wheat tortilla folded or rolled around a filling. This chicken tinga taco’s filling has shredded chicken, slow roasted tomato salsa and chipotle chillies. These blazing hot chillies turn the predictable tacos into loaded, sizzling time bombs. Chipotle chillies are imported from Mexico. Since they come as dry chillies, they are first reconstituted to make a sauce, which is used in this spicy taco.
 
  
  
 
 Here’s something for the vegetarians. This starter is a Vietnamese speciality of potatoes tossed with herbs and hot Sriracha chilli sauce. Sriracha chillies come from the coastal city of Si Racha, in Chonburi Province of eastern  . The beauty of this dish is that the hotness of the chillies 
 explode in your mouth before dissolving in a haze of piquancy. 
 
 
  
  
 
 This is a Spanish prawn dish cooked in a spicy peri peri sauce made from fiery red and ripe bird’s eye chillies. The prawns are fried in olive oil with garlic and cloves and then cooked in the spicy sauce. It is served with Spanish seafood paella rice sauted with 
 saffron to balance the hotness of the prawns.
 
 This oh-so-hot starter is prepared with lantern chillies, ginger and green onion. These chillies come from China and are used for not just its flavour but also for the special heat they add to the dish. The chillies are revered for their intense pungency and take the typical chilli chicken to a zone of untasted white-hot flavours. 
 
 
  
  
 
 One of the staple dishes of Kerala, mutton pepper dry has boti pieces of mutton roasted with crushed Malabar pepper and Kerala spices. The tadka also consists of dhani chilli powder, which adds to the spicy taste of the dish. The dhani or bird’s eye chilli is tiny but packs a punch in terms of spiciness. It is used not only for cooking but also in chutneys and pickles.
 
  
  
 It will set fire to your taste buds, but is worth a try. Tenderloin cooked in roasted, blended spices with Andhra chillies, which adds that extra spicy kick to this bestseller at Bodega. It is served with soft ladi pav.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 It embodies the simplicity and beauty of the people it represents. Not for nothing is ema datshi known as the national dish of Bhutan. Ema is chilli and datshi means cheese. It is made from different types of hot chillies (green, red or white) and cheese (datshi, the local Bhutanese cheese). This hot stew of chillies and cheese is unique and can be had as a soup or a dip. The melted cheese and the punch of chillies leave a beautiful 
 aftertaste. It is a big hit with youngsters and vegetarians who throng this restaurant. A word of caution: if you are not used to hot spices, you might want to have a fire extinguisher handy, or some other form of quick relief, when you try this out. Also, The Blue Poppy’s momos are as famous as its momo sauce. The extremely spicy momo sauce has a pinch of dalle chilli (from Sikkim) paste — one of the hottest chillies of the northeast known for its sting and flavour. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Laal maas, which literally means red meat, is a traditional Rajasthani dish that combines royalty with hotness. Succulent pieces of lamb are cooked only with roasted dry red chillies (locally called tikha laal), pounded in desi ghee and fragrant whole spice mixture or khada masala. It is 
 prepared in a huge handi by simmering for hours together, letting the spices penetrate the chunks of meat and allowing them to be perfectly cooked. It is indeed not for the faint-gutted! The Rajputs used to have this with makkai ki roti, but you could even try it with roomali rotis or jeera rice.
 
  
  
 
 This is a Spanish prawn dish cooked in a spicy peri peri sauce made from fiery red and ripe bird’s eye chillies. The prawns are fried in olive oil with garlic and cloves and then cooked in the spicy sauce. It is served with Spanish seafood paella rice sauted with saffron to balance the hotness of the prawns.
 
  
  
 
 
