 are dreaded by students and parents alike. While several tips are shared with both students and parents on how to cope with exam stress, teachers and lecturers are often ignored in this entire process. For teachers and lecturers, during and post examination is an equally tough and challenging time.
Teachers are expected to keep their cool at all times and help students. Whether it is completion of syllabus or correction of answer scripts, everything needs to be perfect from their side. While many adopt ways to deal with exam stress on a personal level, the school or college managements too at times, comes forward to lend a helping hand to them. BT spoke to a few teachers, colleges and schools to learn how they cope with examination stress. 
 
 
 
 “We need to be calm with students. Being in a responsible position, the preparation has to begin from the start. As teachers we also face stress, but since we are accountable, we should not show our stress,” says Geeta Ravi Mevada, Head, Dept of English,  . Sarika Umamahesh, HOD/Coordinator, Learning Centre,   says that teachers must prepare in advance. “A proficient teacher plans ahead and is ready to help his or her students during the exam period. He or she spends adequate time revising the coursework with the students, clarifying doubts, helping each student in specific areas etc. Once students are done with their  , teachers must prioritize their responsibilities and finish their paper corrections on time. This usually involves taking correction work home, and needless to say, a supportive family is an added blessing.” However, Geeta says that the biggest stress buster for teachers is when their students perform well. “When students do well and get good marks, that is a reward for us,” she adds. Amutha Manavalan, Assistant Professor, Dept of Media studies, Christ University, says that the profession of teaching itself keeps her on alert. “We have joined this profession to do good to the students. What we do reflects on them and hence that keeps me alert,” she says.
 
 
 
 Yoga, music seems to be the most popular stress buster for the teachers. “For me examinations are a taxing time because I teach all high school classes and that amounts to a lot of corrections. However, I deal with the stress by ensuring I do my routine one hour ‘pranayam’ — which relaxes the entire nervous system,” says Shobha Pandit, English Teacher, Bangalore International School.
 Some colleges like St Joseph’s College of Arts and Science, though do not have any mechanism in place to help teachers reduce their stress, but allow teachers to begin corrections of answer scripts early thereby reducing the burden. “Teachers are allowed to begin paper corrections as soon as the exam for their particular subject is over. They need not wait till the last day of the examinations. That way, by the time all exams are over, they are done with almost 50 per cent of the corrections, which in turn reduces the burden on them,” says Fr Pradeep Anthony SJ, Coordinator, Post-Graduation Block, St Joseph’s College of Arts and Science.
 
 
 
 Amutha adds that since there are several seminars and conferences that take place throughout the academic year, the college management tries not to make things hectic for teachers during examination. Several school and college managements, on the other hand, organize workshops and trips for the teaching faculty after the exams. Bangalore International School, for example, organizes trips and dinners for teachers post exams. Faculty development programmes, workshops are held at Indian Academy Degree College for teachers after examinations that helps enhance their knowledge and prepares them for the next academic session.
 
 - Sandra.Fernandes@ timesgroup.com
 
