MUMBAI: Residents in parts of the   are struggling with   at nights as the BEST is grappling with a shortage of 70W bulbs for street lamps.

 Sources indicate that the stock has almost dried up and the BEST, known for replacing defunct bulbs within 48 hours, has been unable to do so for days at a stretch. The areas include parts of Matunga, Dadar, Sion, King's Circle and Mahim, activists point out. This not only inconveniences pedestrians but also jeopardises the safety of women travelling alone and may lead to increase in chain-snatching and other crimes, the activists say.
 
 Citizen rights activist Nikhil Desai said, “I have lodged a complaint with the streetlight department in Dadar and asked them to replace bulbs that are non-functional in Matunga and King's Circle. The officials expressed regret and said they have no stock for replacing 70W bulbs. What surprised me was that they were willing to install 150W bulbs which were available. This means consumption of more electricity, wastage of public money and defeats the Central government's goal of saving energy by introducing LED street lights across the country.”
 
 Desai further said that close to 250 complaints on street lights were pending with BEST for nearly a month. Another activist, Irfan Machiwala from Mahim, said some of the bulbs in his area were “defective” and getting them replaced was a strenuous task. “The local helpline for streetlights does not work and nobody picks up the call. We have to approach the BEST headquarters at   (Colaba) to get our grievance redressed,” he said.
 
 Assistant general manager (power supply) Mahendra Urunkar admitted there’s a shortage of 70W bulbs that’s used for street lighting. “Recently, the department decided to install LEDs for street lights in the Island City. As a result, the procurement of 70W bulbs was slowed down. Of the 40,000 streetlights, we have already replaced 4,000 bulbs with LED and the work on remaining 90% is on a war-footing. So, citizens can expect new, energy-saving bulbs with better lighting on streets soon,” he assured. Sources said there was a delay in procurement of LED lights although officials denied this.
 
 Civic activist G R Vora said: "The civic body and BEST should ensure the safety of pedestrians and motorists. The absence of street lights will make it insecure for women or even families to walk on road... Also, it is unsafe to drive cars or ride a bike/ scooter in the dimly lit lanes as there could be mishaps if the road condition is bad (potholes) or if it's raining.”
 
 
