SHILLONG: In the end, all you could see were hands, pairs and pairs of hands, reaching out to the faceless bunch of men in the middle. Someone held aloft a trophy with a shiny globe on top. It glistened in the sea of heads, it seemed like the eye of a whirlpool of humans, the epicentre of a man-made quake.

 In the middle, somewhere, was that group of men who caused this tremor in the first place. A mere 25 policemen in attendance, Meghalaya's Chief Minister there too, but over 3,000 delirious Mizos had spilled onto the  , making the idea that Aizawl ­ and Indian football ­ was a people's idea, come so true. You had to pinch yourself to realise this wasn't just a TV show.   were the champions of Indian football, and you'd still scarcely believe it.
 
 But first. Just how difficult is the idea of not losing than simply winning, was cruelly dawning upon Aizawl FC as they chased  's blistering early pace and ninth minute goal. They would lose their shape, as they briefly did their composure contesting a controversial Dicka goal which seemed to bounce off the line, and even the scorer being offside. Lajong, with the fourth spot finish out of reach, would now look to spoil the Aizawl party.
 
 In an unexpected twist, 34 minutes into the twin encounters being on either side of the hills in this I-League final round - down in Kolkata where   hosted   and ferociously sought a win, any win - a wild cheer rose in Aizawl section of the Shillong stadium which was rapidly turning morose by the minute until the announcer told us that the Kolkata giants were trailing. So there it was,  's boys trailing the game, but still ahead. It was the most delightful paradox ­ you are behind, yet you are ahead.
 
 That reprieve would last precisely ten minutes, a wonderful bubble surrounding you which you would not want to burst, yet still keep stretching it to its limit. Because it was also the phase where Aizawl would play their best football, calm and composed in their buildup. The chances would come, as would the aimless heaves at the Lajong goal.
 
 Then we were told that Bagan had equalised in Kolkata. No surprise there, but it meant that it was back to the trenches for Aizawl. A close goalline grab by Vishal Kaith, the Lajong goalkeeper only meant what it was ­ so close. Could Jamil throw in his attacking hand as he had said he could a day earlier? Then came the equaliser, in the 62nd minute, a William Fela header, but it wasn't. Assistant referee   had his flag up as Fela's head met the ball. It was a hair's-breadth margin and could debate it for all time to come had substitute   not tapped in from close range. Jamil, who had been remonstrating with Sarkar, hands folded, pleading, rushed past the linesman to go down on his knees at the corner flag. All 23,000 of the northeast faithful were chanting, " Aizawl, Aizawl!" Then, in so far yet so near Kolkata, Darrel Duffy scored for Bagan. It was the 77th minute. They were breathing down Aizawl's neck, refusing to let go. Now it was Lajong's gambit to kill it. The four minutes of added time ­ last four minutes ­ would prove agonizingly long. Then referee   would blow for time. It would all be over.
 
