JAIPUR: In April last year, the Union   put up a notification on its website inviting public comments on a draft notification for the eco-sensitive zone around the   in   district. Since the southern boundary of the sanctuary had no eco-sensitive zone at all, environment activists protested. That draft was withdrawn. 

 Later, the state forest department sent another draft to the Union ministry of environment and forests. This time, the zone extended for one-km right around the sanctuary. However, there is resistance even to this one-km ESZ. In March this year, MLA Jasi Ram Koli of Reodar expressed support to those seeking to limit the ESZ to less than a km. 
 
 Daivat Singh Sirohi, of the erstwhile royal family of the area, told TOI, "This is the only such area in Rajasthan. We must go beyond the law to preserve it."
 
 Chief wildlife warden GV Reddy admitted, "Representations have been received seeking a reduction in the one-km area. The   is preparing maps accordingly."
 
 TOI obtained through RTI a copy of the draft notification proposing the one-km ESZ. "The sanctuary is unique as it forms the distribution limit for many species that have moved from the Himalayas," the draft notification says. 
 
 Arun Sharma, environment activist and resident of   says, "The Aravali ranges are far older than Himalayas. Far from being just the limit of species dispersing from the Himalayas, these mountains have much older flora and fauna."
 
 The draft also provides for construction of temporary facilities to house 'eco-friendly' tourists. Tourists would only ever be temporary; however, any structures erected for them could soon assume permanent shape.
 
 In justifying the one-km area as ESZ, the draft notification says the area beyond is "populated with residential housing colonies. The green area only exists up to one km." Those who travel these areas frequently rubbish this claim - there is some construction of luxury resorts, but for most part virgin forests remain. 
 
 The Jessore Sloth Bear Sanctuary in   is just 10 km south of Mt Abu and the neck of hills extending to the south is still quite pristine. The orders of the   in 2006 provide for a 10-km eco-sensitive zone around protected areas and sanctuaries. At least to the south, the ESZ must ideally extend beyond one km to offer protection to an important wildlife corridor that stretches across the two sanctuaries, activists say. 
 
