MUMBAI: The dance of democracy has begun in Mumbai, a city that once boasted of doyens of municipal rule such as Pherozeshah Mehta, Yusuf Meherally and Acharya Donde. Mumbaikars will cast their votes for 227 seats to India’s richest civic body, the BMC, on February 21 with the hope that the newly constituted House will strive to give them pothole- and garbage-free roads, clean air, more public spaces, uncluttered pavements, and an administration untarnished by corruption and apathy. The result will be out on February 23. 

 The big question is whether the   will retain its more-than-two-decades-long steely grip on the civic body amid increasing political and electoral assertiveness by the BJP, which is demanding a meatier share of seats than the Sena has previously allowed it. If the saffron alliance does not materialize and if BJP, fresh from its successes post-2014 and after the recently-held local body elections across the state, posts a stiff challenge to Uddhav Thackeray’s Sainik squad, the 50-year-old Sena’s very identity as the dominant political force in the city could be at stake; this may even cast a shadow on the 2019 assembly polls. If the saffron parties do not contest together, the city will also witness a multi-cornered contest (Congress and NCP are currently exploring talks to ink a poll pact, and MNS, Samajwadi Party and MIM too are key players) and perhaps a vitriolic poll campaign, much in keeping with what we saw in 2014 when Sena-BJP had parted ways for the state assembly polls.
 
 The bigger question is whether Mumbaikars will turn out in substantial numbers for an election long known for its notoriously low turnout (only 44% voted in the last polls in 2012).
 
 Sources said seat-sharing could be a thorny issue in the saffron alliance as the Sena wants the BJP to spell out, at the outset, its demand. The BJP is keen on extracting more than 100 seats. But a senior Sena functionary said his party would not be willing to part with 100-plus seats. “The Sena has robust organizational apparatus, a broad support base, and we want to retain our status as senior partner in the BMC,” he explained.
 
 Also, the Sena is piqued with BJP’s suggestion, explicitly provocative for the former, that   should promise a transparent and corruption-free rule in the city hall. “This means we alone are responsible for the graft in the BMC. How can we accept such insinuation?” asked the Sena functionary.
 
 Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar on Wednesday reiterated that Mumbai deserved an administration steeped in transparency and accountability.
 
 However, setting aside differences over a range of issues, the BJP-Shiv Sena resumed seat-sharing talks on Wednesdayas the state election commission announced dates for statewide polls to local self-governing bodies. Uddhav said a panel of three senior functionaries from the two parties each was working out the nitty-gritty.
 
 “Chief minister   and I will take the final decision,” he told mediapersons. Asked if he was positive about the outcome of talks, Uddhav said, “If I wasn't, I wouldn’t have deputed three leaders from my party to continue talks with the BJP.”
 
 The Congress, NCP, MIM, Samajwadi Party and the MNS too are jostling for political space in the BMC. The Mumbai Regional Congress Committee has pulled out all stops to come down heavily on the saffron rule in the corporation.
 
 In an attempt to retain its traditional voters, MRCC chief   has finalized community-wise manifestos for Marathi, Gujarati, Muslim and north Indian voters, it is learnt.
 
 The NCP will keep a hawk’s eye on its traditional votebank in, say, Parel, Sewri, Lalbaug, Dadar, and the suburbs of Bhandup, Ghatkopar and Kanjurmarg.
 
 Having inked a poll pact with the BJP, the RPI (  faction) is keen on contesting 20 seats in Dalit-dominated pocketboroughs such as BDD chawls in Worli, Ghatkopar, Mulund, Trombay, Chembur and Kandivli.
 
 Having suffered a body blow in the last general and state assembly elections, the MNS needs to strain every nerve to retain its 2012 strength of 28 corporators, said observers.
 
 The Raj Thackeray-led party stands to gain if the Sena teams up with BJP, said analysts. Speculation is rife in political circles that the BJP may secretly back MNS candidates in Marathi citadels in an attempt to clip Sena’s wings.
 
 Both the SP and MIM are vying to close in on the Muslim-dominated wards in south Mumbai, Sewri, Bandra, Andheri, Jogeshwari and Kurla, among others. Poll pundits said the MIM, which has done exceedingly well in the Marathwada polls and whose leaders are known for their inflammatory speeches, may find it tough to cut the SP to size or to encroach on the Congress’s minority votebank.
 
 “The Mumbaikar Muslims are not impressed by radical speeches. They want development -- health, education and infrastructure,” said Ahmed Siddique, a Kurla resident.
 
 Hours after the poll time-table was unveiled, netas went into a huddle, fine-tuning strategies, probing possibilities of alliances, finalizing candidates and mobilising resources and manpower.
 
 Braving demonetisation and the winter, karyakartas cutting across party lines are ready to visit slums and skyscrapers, colonies and chawls in a bid to re-bond with Mumbaikars over a hot cuppa to re-define the city’s destiny.
 
 
