GOA: In the age of Google, where knowledge and memory are outsourced, the first casualty is the indigenous knowledge of nature and culture. Birds, animals and plants, which were everyday names till about 25 years ago, have been relegated to Google searches, and many are unaware of how much we don’t know — blissfully ignorant.
 
  Goa is still blessed with its environmentalists and avid birders, albeit a few, who have taken tremendous efforts to map as well as conserve its flora and fauna.   and   had recently released a book listing various bird species in the state. Titled ‘Goyachi Savanni’ (Birds of Goa), it could be the first bird catalogue in Konkani. It is a compilation of 180 species found in Goa with a picture of the bird with its Konkani, Marathi, English and scientific names, along with a short description of the species with the added feather of folklores surrounding the bird in the state.
  
  Goa is currently home to 430 bird species, both resident as well as those migrating to the Indian subcontinent in winter. Many bird enthusiasts in Goa switch between the Konkani and English names, but most are not aware of its etymology, which is a compelling representation of the richness of the language as well as the culture of the land.
  
  The bird’s behaviour, its call, appearance, all could contribute to the name with which a bird is called in a particular region. Linguists tend to differ on the etymological origins of a name, but the wordplay gives an intent insight on the environment through a local’s eyes.
  
  The cormorant, for instance, is called buro which means ‘to dive’ in Konkani, a behaviour the bird is renowned for. The cormorants can dive up to depths of 45 metres, according to some reports. A malabar whistling thrush also known as the whistling schoolboy is called shellov because of its melodious and human-like whistle. Shelloni is whistle in Konkani. Jungle babblers are rather infamous for their continual chattering, squeaking and chirping and are known as bojboje in Konkani, perhaps an onomatopoeic take on their chatter. So is the common kingfisher, who is called chito for its high-pitched ‘cheeti-cheeti’ sounds. There are other examples too, like the white-breasted kingfisher, which is known as kirkiro as it goes kil kil through the wetlands of Goa. The nightjar’s voice chuk-vo-vu is heard as duk-podu, from where it gets its name dukpode.
  
  “Some bird species have more than one Konkani name. These names vary from taluka to taluka and in some villages it changes from vaddo to vaddo. Bird names differ by Catholic and Hindu nomenclature, too,” said Harsha Shetye. The white-breasted waterhen is called kokator, konkari and kua kombi. Similarly, the malabar grey hornbill is called vayre, bonds, kankanyo and beds.
  
  Fearing that this treasure trove of local names of these winged-wonders are slowly dying out, Saunt said, “Some people from rural Goa have good knowledge of the locally-found bird species, and this has been passed down over generations in the form of folklore, poetry, idioms and other manners of expression. Unfortunately, this valuable knowledge has faded over time, and if steps are not taken to conserve it, it shall be forgotten and lost forever.”
  
  President of Goa bird conservation network,   added, “Unless this knowledge is made popular, conservation will not become a community activity and will remain confined to only those people who understand science. More publications can popularize these names and the knowledge will be conserved. Putting this information up on social media and including it in school curriculum will help reach a large audience.”
  
