THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the   completes one year in office, the government is caught in a  , which is acting as an impediment to smooth administration. The infighting between the top police officials and administrators and the power struggle among IAS and IPS officials have left the government in a quandary.

 As the government moves on to the second year, former bureacrats and officials feel that the real problems are not the squabbles but the inability of the state government to deal with them on time without allowing matters to get out of hand. “Governments all over the world would have faced such issues but what matters is the timely intervention from the government. What made matters go out of hand in the state is the delay in intervening when they cropped up,“ said  , former chief secretary .
 
 According to him, the tussles began after individual IPS officers started acting beyond what the law permits in the pretext of fighting corruption.“The chief minister should make them understand that the police officers are not required to act as the saviours of the government, but are only supposed to work within the contours of the law,“ he said.
 
 There have been several in stances in the past when deep schisms developed among officers within the police force and administrative service but the matters were quickly resolved by superiors. Former DGP K J Joseph recalled how the police force was split vertically after murder of Rajan during the emergency and the ISRO spy case, but they did not go to the extent of affecting the governance.
 
 “All the issues that cropped up in the last one year should have ended the day it erupted.In the age of media activism, those who are sitting on the top should be smart enough to immediately settle it. It is the media which is winning the race now. This is where the present government failed in the first year. The chief minister will have to put his foot down and ensure that the matters are immediately resolved and never goes to the hands of the media leading to a public debate,“ Joseph said.
 
 Former chief secretary   also feels that issues of infighting are poorly dealt with. “The matters are blown out of proportion.When there is an issue between two IAS officers or between a police officer and an IAS officer, it should be settled by the chief secretary. Everything need not necessarily be settled through official mechanism, but it can be settled even over a cup of tea, in an informal meeting,“ he said.
 
