HYDERABAD: Telangana received a major boost after its securities became hot property in the  .

 The Telangana government secured bonds have been placed for auction by the   (RBI) and in just two working days ` 7,120 crore worth bonds sold out of the total ` 8,923 crore bonds auctioned.Backed by a rating of “A (Structured Obligation)“ the Telangana bonds have been received well in the securities market.
 
 The money that is being raised through ssis ex pected to clear the loans taken by the Telangana Discoms. “We are more than happy to see that major financial institutions have evinced interest in buying Telangana bonds auctioned by the RBI. In a short period, more than 70 per cent bonds were auctioned which indicates the positive financial sentiment the bonds have raised,“ principal finance secretary   told TOI.
 
 The financial markets are at present not in bullish mood. Still, the bonds gua ranteed by Telangana have become most sought after.According to financial experts, Telangana has very good State's Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) compared to many states in the country and also has a low loan component in the capital expenditure in comparison with other states. The state government's investments in key programmes such as Mission Bhagiratha, Mission Kakatiya and irrigation projects have been considered pro-growth as these investments lead to creation of assets.
 
 The expenditure on irrigation projects is set to improve the key sector of agriculture which will improve the per capita income.
 
 The per capita income of the state at current prices improved by 12.7 per cent in 2014-15 to `1,29,182 and is estimated to further improve by 10.7 percent to `1,43,023 in 2015-16, much higher than the national average of ` 93,231. After factoring all the above points, the financial institutions have started investing in T-Bonds.
 
 With A(SO) rating, the state's standing in national and international credit arenas has started improving which will also pave the way for obtaining loans at lesser interest rates. The investor community peruses the credit ratings before putting money in the state.
 
