Kerala is all set to host its first ever transgender beauty pageant, which kicked off with the Kochi auditions, held recently. More than 40 transgenders turned up, out of which nine were selected. Organised by an association of transgenders of Kerala named the Dhwayah Arts and Cultural society, the event will be focusing on the empowerment and inclusion of the third gender in our society.

 Celebrity makeup artist and one of the organisers of the beauty pageant Renju Renjimar tells us, “The idea is to give transpeople more confidence, to be active in the mainstream. Though Kerala has become more trans-friendly on paper, we are still discriminated against. We hope this pageant will help transpeople come out of their shells. I’m happy to say that more than 40 transpeople turned up just for the first audition.” The auditions for those from the southern parts of Kerala will be held in Kollam while Kozhikode will be the venue for those from Malabar area. Out of all the selected participants, 15 will be chosen to be part of the final round. The final winner will be titled ‘Queen of Dhwayah 2017’.
 
 “The auditions will be judged by former Miss Kerala Elizabeth Thadikaran, fashion choreographer   and I. We have tried to stick to the rules and regulations followed in the Miss India contest, especially that of the 1994 pageants, which had Sushmita Sen, Aishwarya Rai and Shweta Menon winning the finals,” Ranju says. Parvathy Omanakuttan and   will be the judges for the final round while Shweta Menon will crown the winner.
 
 Personality and confidence will be the major criteria for judging the contestants, says Elizabeth Thadikaran. “As the trans community has been fighting to forge their own identity in society and within themselves, the biggest quality they should achieve is confidence to face the world.We will also be looking at their overall persona, communication skills and passion for success. I am excited about the pageant, and am sure it will open up new paths for them in society. Many Malayalis still find it tough to accept them. More of such events would make them more visible and give them a more dignified space in the society,” she says. 
 
 Tripthi Shetty is one among the nine shortlisted contestants from Kochi. Tripthi tells us, “I’m thrilled to be part of the first beauty pageant of its kind in Kerala. We are participating in it after overcoming violent oppositions from family, friends and society at large with regard to our gender choices and convincing the world of our sexual identity. This competition would open the doors for at least some of us.” She says that she has been dreaming of entering the film industry for quite a while but wasn’t getting the right platform to launch herself. 
 
 “I view this beauty contest as an opportunity to fulfil my dreams. We are told that the winners will be featured as cover girls for a popular magazine. I am working hard and hoping for the best,” she says. 
 
 
 
 
 India’s first transgender school was inaugurated in Kochi in December 2016. Christened Sahaj Foundation, the team, led by transgender   has been actively functioning at Thrikkakkara. Vijayaraja says, “We realised that educating transgenders will help only if we have a trans-friendly space for us in society. So we are conducting programs in the school which would give the society awareness on who is a transgender and why they should be accepted as one. Every Sunday, we organise events such as Mathru Sangamam, Kudumba Sangamam and Sneha Sangamam involving mothers, children and elders in society." Within a year and half, classes will start at the school, which will provide inclusive education for the community.
 
 
