NOIDA: Come  , the city will witness the second edition of   – a   to promote non-motorised transport, providing citizens the opportunity to reclaim their streets and connect with others.

 The weekly event will be launched on Sunday at the one-kilometre-long stretch in front of DLF Mall of India, Sector 18 from 6 am to 9 am and will take place on successive Sundays.
 
 An initiative of The Times of India in partnership with  , district administration and the police, Happy Streets aims to highlight problems typical of any city - cars usurping roads, shrinking space for pedestrians and cyclists and air pollution shooting up. 
 
 Inspired by Ciclovia in Columbia’s Bogota, an event designed to encourage people to use non-motorised transport with support infrastructure from the district administration, the event which began last year on March 20, was a resounding success following its initial launch as Raahgiri Day movement in Gurgaon in 2013.
 
 On offer this Sunday will be a host of activities such as cycling, yoga, zumba, aerobics, karate, games, skating and more with the underlying theme being fun and fitness. (See box). 
 
 Various cycling, running and other hobby groups are invited to be a part of Happy Streets and participate in multiple activities at the venue on Sunday.
 
 District magistrate Nagendra Prasad Singh lends full support to the event and sees the initiative as a cohesive collaboration of cultural vibrancy with the city’s growth. “I’ve always called for a cohesive, vibrant, cultural and healthy growth for any city/district along with infrastructural development work and Happy Streets helps bring that to the fore. It’s a good and healthy initiative which aims to generate popular sentiments for a healthy civic living which should be encouraged,” Singh told TOI.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rama Raman, chairperson of the three development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar and principal secretary, industries maintained that the initiative will motivate   to lead a healthy life. “The Happy Streets concept launched last year had a very positive effect on the normally boring life of Noidaites. I’m sure the second edition of the event will further motivate Noida to lead a healthy and blissful life. My best wishes to all,” said Raman.
 
 Readers can carry their copy of The Times of India newspaper to avail rent-free cycles at the venue.
 
 
