COIMBATORE: An average 5% seats were cut down in major   in   under   this year. A total of 10,000 seats have been removed from the merit-based engineering admission that began at Anna University on Sunday. 

 Major branches like mechanical engineering, computer science and engineering, electrical engineering and civil engineering have cut down seats this year too. “Seats have been cut down in almost all engineering branches this year. But it is a matter of concern that the core engineering branches have cut down seats,” said education consultant Prof Moorthy Selvakumaran.
 
 The most number of seats were cut down in civil engineering - 7.5%. Last year, the intake capacity in civil engineering was 27,737 and this year it was 25,637. Professors of civil engineering feel colleges that have reduced intake or have closed down civil engineering courses are those which have not been able to provide quality education. However, the current market situation in real estate is a factor that has affected employment opportunities. 
 
 “Only top engineering colleges are able to provide good placements in civil engineering. With enough infrastructure projects in the pipeline across the country, there are opportunities for employment, but they are limited,” said a professor of civil engineering. 
 
 Around 10 engineering colleges have been closed down this year, that is, admissions into first year have been stopped from 2017. 
 
 After civil engineering, it was mechanical engineering that saw 6.6% seats being cut down. Mechanical engineering has the highest number of seats (38,009) among the engineering courses offered by Anna University. 
 
 One of the most-sought after courses, computer science and engineering, too saw reduction of 4.7% seats this year. Said Moorthy Selvakumaran, “The information technology industry market is not great now. And employment opportunities in other sectors are also limited.” 
 
 A professor who is part of accreditation, Moorthy Selvakumaran feels that not more than 5% engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu follow outcome based education. “Every college should aim at employment, entrepreneurship or higher education for every student. Unless this happens, the quality of education will not improve,” he said.
 
  feel that the reduction in number of seats is a step in the right direction. “For the past three years, nearly 1 lakh engineering seats are going vacant. The cut down in seats is a good move to close down poor performing colleges and courses,” said educational consultant J P Gandhi. “At present we are producing more engineers than the market requirement. So this is a step towards reaching the saturation point where we will focus on producing quality engineers through good engineering colleges,” he added.
 
