Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) advertisement department has penalized mobile company Oppo for putting up illegal billboards at 95 places across the city, and recovered Rs3.36 lakh penalty. Confirming this, Smita Kale, in charge of NMC’s advertisement department, said the mobile company erected advertisement hoardings at various places, like commercial establishments, agencies, shops without obtaining prior permission from NMC. The civic body has collected Rs3,23,331 as fine and Rs3,36,400 as licence fee from the firm, she said. The action has exposed the casual approach of the department, since the illegal advertisements were causing a huge loss of revenue for the civic body until now. Even the action was initiated only after someone tipped off higher officials in NMC. Now, the mobile firm has sought permission to officially erect hoardings, the department said in a RTI reply by activist Abhay Kolarkar. NMC’s advertisement policy says a shop can put up self-signage not exceeding 20 sqft for free. If a showroom wants to put up a bigger hoarding, they must obtain permission from NMC by paying advertisement charges. The hoardings of the mobile company were of much bigger size, and had been erected over above shops and also on private properties like apartments since last couple of years, said Kolarkar. He added that corruption in the department had caused huge loss to cash-starved NMC. He also cited the department’s RTI reply of revenue generation. In 2013-14, the department earned Rs7.27 crore revenue. Instead of a rise, the revenue declined in the subsequent years; Rs6.58 crore (2014-2015), Rs5.38 crore (2015-16), and Rs5.23 crore (2016-17). This year till August-end, the department has earned Rs2.71 crore only. Sources said violators are not being penalized even when their hoardings are removed. A majority of the shops in the city violate the basic guidelines of having just one display board outside the shop. A visit to any major city market will reveal showrooms with their facades covered by illegal hoardings or signage. In the past, NMC’s advertising department had issued circulars that those who erect illegal hoardings have to be fined as much as the fee prescribed for a legal billboard, and the hoarding should also be pulled down. However, this is not happening, admitted officials in the advertisement department. Sources allege that people responsible for installing illegal hoardings are not served notices to pay the fine. This is a huge revenue loss for the civic body. Sources also said that offenders are often warned a day before a survey is conducted, and only a fraction of the illegal hoardings are actually recorded. “In many cases, advertisers themselves take down the hoardings for some time, ensuring they are not fined,” sources said.