CHENNAI: On Sunday morning, thousands of young, educated Chennaiites walked along the Marina shore, banking on the potential of a powerful, one-of-its-kind rally they put together in the city, to be gifted back the traditional bull sport of jallikattu this Pongal. 

 With less than a week to go for the harvest festival, this is perhaps the first time the pro-jallikattu debate has so systematically articulated itself in Chennai since the apex court banned the sport under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in 2014. 
 
 A day later, actor   stirred it further out of balance for animal rights organisations such as the   (AWBI) and   (PETA) India, on whose arguments chiefly the Supreme Court had dismissed a review petition by   against the jallikattu ban in November last year. Categorically reiterating his support for jallikattu at a media conclave and suggesting that upset animal activists go a step further and ban biriyani too, the actor said, "I have played the game. I'm one of the very few actors who can lay claim to actually embracing a bull. I'm a Tamilian and I like the sport." 
 
 Haasan's advocacy of jallikattu may be significant, as he also represents an analytical, educated urban class, which thus far may have been too far from the ground realities of jalikattu's pros and cons; its impact on the farmer community and the fervour it draws from 'Tamil culture conservationists'. Sunday's rally itself comprised largely of educated, non-political groups of students, engineers and IT professionals who are said to have grown in number and momentum solely through social media interaction.
 
 According to Nagendra Prabu, a computer science graduate and a coordinator of Sunday's ' ' walkathon, the campaign, which started a day after Christmas on Facebook, anticipated no more than 3,000 people to participate. "But over 20,000 showed up. Besides those in Chennai, people called us from Kanyakumari, Salem, Namakkal, Madurai and Trichy to tell us they would like to join in," he says, adding that they desire no hurried verdict, but an ordinance enabling jallikattu to be conducted this year - a demand chief minister   has already placed before Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 But neither Haasan's now viral rhetoric nor the culture debate can dispute "documented facts," maintains PETA India. "Jallikattu exploits bulls' natural nervousness as prey animals by deliberately placing them in a terrifying situation in which they are forced to run away from those they perceive as predators. AWBI inspectors documented at numerous jallikattu events that the bulls become so frightened by the menacing mob that they slip, fall, run into barriers and traffic, and even jump off cliffs, so desperate are they to escape," says Poorva Joshipura, CEO, PETA India.
 
 Furthermore, it also squarely counters accusations of intending to wipe out native breeds of bulls by accusing jallikattu supporters of "resorting to desperate falsehoods." As for social media, which has made passionate campaigning simpler than ever before, "PETA India's Facebook page has over 700,000 fans, our Twitter page has 93K followers, and our YouTube channel has over 6,300 subscribers and the videos there alone have 4,5 million views, while the videos on our Facebook have also been viewed by millions. Through these means, we have influenced countless young people and others to eat vegan, go leather-free, and be kind to animals in other ways," says Joshipura.
 
 
