NEW DELHI: A day after arresting a   for allegedly trying to extort Rs 7 crore from a  , the police are probing a bigger nexus that might have involved a few lawyers, policemen and another woman. They had allegedly helped the gang in its attempt to blackmail several parliamentarians. 

 Special commissioner Mukesh Kumar Meena said on Wednesday that the police had identified all members of the gang that used to shoot objectionable photos and videos of MPs in order to blackmail them. A criminal of Muzaffarnagar, who has been identified, had allegedly provided muscle power to the gang, sources said.
 
 According to Meena, at least three politicians fell prey to the gang’s  . Besides Gujarat parliamentarian K C Patel and another   from Haryana, a senior politician from Uttarakhand was also blackmailed.
 
 The woman, arrested on Tuesday, had filed a case of molestation against the Uttarakhand MP in south Delhi in 2014, the police said. However, she withdrew her complaint allegedly after receiving money, a senior officer said. She blackmailed the Haryana MP in the same manner. Both have been contacted to record their statements. The police are also verifying another case from Rajouri Garden. Sources have claimed that at least 15 politicians had been targeted.
 
 The police raided the woman’s house in Indirapuram on Wednesday to gather evidence, including the digital video recorders of the CCTV cameras. It has been found that the entire house had been bugged with spy cameras and CCTVs. The woman also used to carry spy cameras in her bag.
 
 Cops are verifying if the woman had fraudulently procured her multiple degrees, including a double MA in political science and English, and law degrees, from Muzaffarnagar. She will be taken there to verify details. 
 
 An FIR was registered after Patel claimed that he had been drugged and filmed by the accused and was being blackmailed. The woman has told the police that she had come to Delhi in 2011 to prepare for civil services but could not crack it. “She then got numbers of several MPs from the Lok Sabha website and contacted seeking appointments on the pretext of work. Later, she trapped them,” a source said. 
 
 She has been booked for extortion and under Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 
