KOLKATA: After the   and the  's (CAG) office, the   has turned its focus on   for collecting record   in scrapped currency, days after demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs1,000 was announced on November 8.

 The central investigating agency in January wrote to the civic body, asking for the database of the taxpayers so that they could corroborate the deposited amounts with that of their annual incomes. The I-T department and CAG had made similar queries to ascertain the property tax route was not used to get rid of black money.
 
 Going by the KMC records, the highest tax deposited by a taxpayer was Rs 57 lakh, follo wed by Rs 40 lakh, between November 8 and 24. In the two weeks, the KMC mopped up Rs 73 crore in pending tax, of which Rs 30 lakh was collected in the first week. The huge deposit added up to 50% more tax collected than that in the corresponding period in 2015-16. The spike was so high that it caught the attention of even the PMO, which asked for current tax figures and those of last three years.
 
 While KMC revenue officials said the civic body announced the scheme in conformity with Reserve Bank of India guidelines, certain grey areas were not addressed during implementation. First, the KMC accepted all the money in old notes when the civic law said it should accept deposits exceeding Rs 25,000 in draft. Secondly, the KMC didn't ask for taxpayers' PAN details. Thirdly , the KMC let taxpayers deposit money in the suspense account, to be adjusted with future property tax bills, when the RBI guideline was restricted to tax payment for this fiscal. The I-T department wrote to the KMC five times over these issues.
 
 The KMC has sent the central agencies the highest taxpayers' details but is yet to clarify why it accepted such high amounts on tweaking the KMC's draft norm. Civic bosses claimed they accepted cash following a special order from the civic chief but they were yet to submit a copy of the order. Sources said the civic chief did have the powers to issue a special order but it had to be ratified in the mayor-in-council meeting.
 
 Following the queries from PMO, CAG, I-T and now CBI, mayor Sovan Chatterjee held a series of meetings with assessment and revenue officials.What bothers civic bosses is something that usually escapes attention. “The RBI allowed civic bodies to collect property tax arrears and current tax in old notes. But some owners in Kolkata paid a lump sum that was put in a suspense account, meaning KMC didn't take the cash against pending or current property bills. It wasn't confirmed if the taxpayer had any pending bill. If someone submits excess money , it has to be adjusted with future property bills, a procedure that can be construed as advance tax collection that goes beyond RBI guidelines,“ a KMC official said.
 
