CHENNAI: Claiming that it was a protest in solidarity with agitating   in New Delhi, film producer Gowthaman and his supporters ‘tied up’ the Kathipara grade separator in Guindy on Thursday morning.   for vast swathes of   and   for almost 45 minutes before police managed to break open the locks of the chains across the flyover, freeing it for traffic.

 Around 9.30am, more than 20 protesters, carrying huge banners and raising slogans against the Centre, descended on the spot, tied chains across the road leading to the flyover and squatted in front. A large police which reached the spot about 15 minutes later, tried to pacify the protesters but in vain.
 
 Until the protesters led by Gowthaman were forcibly removed and sent to jail on charges of criminal intimidation, threat to public servant, unlawful assembly and ssault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty, the grade separator linking the southern and western suburbs to the city, was completely out of bounds for motorists. Two ambulances from Porur were stuck in the traffic.
 
 Several road-users were caught by surprise. “They stopped my bike saying they were going to clean the road and tied up a long iron chain on the ledge in one corner. I understood [the real reason] only after they brought in huge banners and raised slogans,” said K Pallavan, a car driver from Ayyapanthangal, one of the first to be blocked.
 
 Others were mainly irked by the means adopted for the demonstration. “Though the protest is being done for a good cause, I think blocking roads in not an ideal idea to sort the issue. It only affects the life of public and the leaders are not going to understand the seriousness of the protest,” said M Lokeshwaran, a techie from Sholinganallur.
 
 Separately, members of Thanthai Periyar Dravida Kazhagam staged a ‘half-naked’ protest over the same issue outside Shastri Bhavan on Haddows Road in Nungambakkam, condemning the lethargic attitude of the central government with regard to resolving the genuine grievances of the farmers.
 
 
