BENGALURU: Traffic police registered 1,389 cases of   between December 24 and 31. The figure stood at 2,374 during the corresponding period in 2015. While cops say the number may be misleading, many feel it could point to a change in mindset and the easy availability of cabs and Metro services.

 Pawan Mulukutla, manager of urban transport at  , said, “A US survey says the millennial population doesn’t want to own a car. If people have access to reliable, high-quality mass transit services which ensure last-mile connectivity, they are more likely to switch to public transport. The concept of shared mobility is driven not just by private players but also encouraged by the Centre. Who would want to take the law in their hands if they can rely on public transport to get home safe after a party?”
 
 Namma Metro, another mode of public transport, ferried 34,853 passengers during the extended hours of operations (till 2am). The Byappanahalli-Mysuru Road line saw 33,106 passengers from 10pm to 2am. Cab aggregator Uber said its UberPOOL service recorded 11,939 trips in Bengaluru on New Year’s Eve alone. The company also saw a twofold increase in the number of UberX rides hailed from outside bars which are part of Uber's campaign against drunk driving. The most popular pick-up area was Koramangala, and MG Road and Indiranagar were the most sought-after drop-off points. 
 
 Sarmila K, who partied with her cousins on December 31, said, “I was not sure if I would get a cab at 1am from my cousin’s house but I was lucky. The distance was not more than two kms and I had to wait for less than 10 minutes for the driver to arrive.”  , who went shopping and dining to MG Road, said, “The traffic was chaotic. I managed to get a taxi and the ride was stress-free and affordable.”
 
 However, traffic cops say the figure doesn’t paint the real picture. R Hitendra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), said: “If we look at the last week of 2016, our focus was on managing traffic to facilitate smooth movement of convoys of the president and vice-president. Also, enforcement around party zones was higher than other parts of the city during Christmas and New Year Eve.”
 
 Traffic cops may not agree but statistics still point to a dip in drunk driving cases. A total of 62,576 cases were booked in 2015, with December recording the highest number — 9,461. In 2016, 52,362 cases were registered till November end. 
 
 Mulukutla said: “There must be some truth to what cops say about enforcement. But there is no scientific data which proves people are not taking cabs to go home after drinking. That Namma Metro claims to have ferried more than half a lakh party-goers on New Year’s Eve is indicative of a changing trend.”
 
