PUNE: Coaching classes in the city for the state common entrance test (MH-CET) for engineering admissions are mostly empty. 

 Students have opted to prepare for the national joint entrance exam (JEE) instead of the MH-CET because the   ( ) is contemplating a single national entrance test for engineering from 2018. In that case, the MH-CET would be redundant and all engineering aspirants will have to attempt the national test. 
 
 Although a formal notification from AICTE has not yet been issued, students are not taking any risk, especially after last year’s medical entrance test fiasco.
 
 AICTE chairman   told TOI on Wednesday, “The official notification regarding the single entrance will come soon. In Maharashtra, they will have to take appropriate decision once the notification is out.” The government will do away with several tests held by central agencies, state governments, and private institutions.
 
 While Sahasrabuddhe refused to disclose more details about the single entrance test, sources in AICTE said that a meeting between all stakeholders and AICTE officials was held on Wednesday in New Delhi, and a proposal with guidelines to conduct the single entrance exam was sent to the Union ministry of human resource and development.
 
 Considering the AICTE move, students aspiring for engineering admissions have already started enrolling for coaching for JEE, which is a national test for admissions to   and National Institutes of Technology.
 
 Coaching class owner Durgesh Mangeshkar said, “Students usually enrol for coaching classes at least two years in advance and start preparation. It is true that the CET batches are going vacant and enrolments are down. In fact, students outside Pune have cancelled their CET enrolment and come to Pune for JEE coaching.”
 
 State director of technical education S K Mahajan said, “We are aware of the single entrance test the AICTE has proposed from 2018. However, we are just preparing the students for the decision AICTE might make. Hence, we issued the notification regarding the syllabus for CET being at par with JEE. There is no harm or loss that students would have to suffer because we have effected change in the exam pattern for CET in 2018. So, students will be prepared to face any exam irrespective of the decision.”
 
 Mahajan also said that the state education department was expecting this AICTE move to hold a single entrance from 2019 and hence the government had decided to change MH-CET exam pattern and syllabus from 2018 itself. “However, we later learnt that the AICTE was contemplating the single entrance a year earlier, which coincidentally is the same year when MH-CET syllabus would be changed,” Mahajan said.
 
 Jairaj Abichandani, parent of an engineering aspirant, said, “Ideally, any student would need two years to prepare for an exam like JEE. In the current situation, this is not the case and parents would unnecessarily pay exorbitant fees to coaching classes. This is also leading to stress among students. This new test (national single entrance) should start from 2019 to give some breathing space to students.”
 
 
