Bhopal: With property market in Bhopal showing signs of recessionary trends post-demonetisation, eyes of builders and investors are now on collector guideline rates, which would be revised in next financial year. 

 The district administration, too, has felt the heat of crashed property market as number of registries have slumped, ultimately affecting the government revenue. The decline in number of registries was because many buyers feared that they may come under the I-T scanner for registering property.
 
 If officials are to be believed, rates in collector guidelines may come down or at least will not be increased in some areas of the city.
 
 The   majors of Bhopal and office-bearers of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Bhopal pointed out it is not only builders, but investors, too, have been hit hard due to increase in property rates by district administration in past few years and it must come down this time to give respite to all.
 
 CREDAI Bhopal president Wasiq Husain said the collector guideline rates must be directly linked to market reality. If rates have crashed, the collector rates must be reduced accordingly. The government agencies should target volume to generate revenue and not increase rates in arbitrary manner to generate more revenue.
 
 Ajay Mohgaonkar, managing director, Fortune Builders, says the collector guideline rates must come down this time since the actual market condition is not hidden from anyone. Banks have reduced loan rates. Similarly, if rates in collector guidelines are reduced, it will generate positive signs in the market and bring real estate sector back on tracks.
 
 Suniel Moolchandani, director of Chinarr Group said the collector guideline rates should be brought down to the level it was in the 2011-12. The actual condition of market demands the same since there has been no growth after that. District administration should take a note of it and do the needful.
 
 The builder community has also met officials of district administration to put across their point at repeated intervals. However, realtors are still not sure what will happen and suggest that district administration should come up with a logical formula to revise property rates in its guidelines. 
 
 
