AJMER:  , situated in the heart of Ajmer city, once again started overflowing and the local administration opened gates so that extra water can enter Khanpura pond. The region has been receiving rains since last one week.

 According to the municipal corporation, water from the different channels is coming to   and the gauge touched 13.5 feet. “We decided to maintain the gauge at 13 feet and, therefore, opened 3 gates,” said an official. He said that the gauge on Monday went to 13.2 feet and still the gates remained opened.
 
 The maximum capacity of the lake is 16 feet but the municipality does not want to take any chance as with the increasing gauge of the lake, the catchment area also has increased and water then started entering colonies located near the lake. Sources said that many colonies are come in the catchment area of Anasagar Lake and therefore, it is not possible to let the lake overflow.
 
 This is the fourth consecutive year when the gates of Anasagar have been opened and water flowing on the link roads attracts city people who gather in large numbers on Chaupati to enjoy such evenings.
 
 According to irrigation department, Foisagar has 9.3 feet of water, Ramsar Lake 1.10 feet, Shiv   4.6, Pushkar 6.6, Rajiyawas 1.5, Arniya dam 3.11, Ajgara got 1.4 feet, Jawahar Sagar got 3.7, Vijay Sagar 1.4 and Sarwar pond got 5.8 feet of water. Pushkar pond is still waiting for good amount of water as the capacity of the pond is 25 feet.
 
 According to the department, Beawar block of the district received highest rainfall this time with 355 mm of rains and   region got 105 mm of rains this time whereas the district got average 236 mm of rains this year till now.
 
 Meanwhile, incidents of wall collapse in Ajmer were reported in the last 48 hours in which a wall collapsed at   and also in Patti Katla, the old city region. During rains, the situation gets chaotic with water overflowing on the   and as there is no proper management for flushing out water, the water channels and nullahs are filled with water even when there is no rain.
 
