JALANDHAR: Despite a bumper crop,   are staring at  . They have been hit as big- and middle-level traders are not coming to markets to strike the deals. The   so much that even   is becoming a challenge, they say.

 Potato seed growers are saying that they are facing double whammy as the season of selling potato seeds in November was lost to demonetisation and the prevailing crisis seems to be an aftermath of it. Punjab produces good quality potato seeds which are sold across the country.
 
 “No traders is coming to purchase the fresh crop and prices have nosedived in local mandis. In November, when potato seeds were to be supplied, demonetisation came. Farmers from West Bengal, which was the main market to be catered at the time, had no cash and the growers and suppliers here refused to sell on credit. Even according to conservative estimates, over four lakh bags (50kg per bag) were left in the stores in Punjab,” said Inderdeep Singh Grewal, a major potato grower from Saraba village near Ludhiana. “I too suffered big loss in November despite owning a cold storage,” he added.
 
 “In November, several small growers had already sold most part of their produce and the middle and big producers were badly hit. However, this time, it’s theses small growers who are worst hit as they sell their produce directly in the local mandis and don’t have financial capacity to store,” said Jaswinder Singh Sangha, secretary of Jalandhar Potato Growers Association.
 
 “Most of the trading of potato crops is done in cash. Now traders are wary of making all transactions through banks,” Sangha said. “People are worried as to how would they return the crops loans,” he added.
 
 “In Jalandhar, farmers had to sell potato at Rs 2 to 3 per kg which did not even make up the cost incurred on producing it leave aside its transportation or other charges like labour,” Sangha said. “We are considering to launch some protest or agitation to expose that how demonetisation has hit the farmers,” he added.
 
 Grewal pointed out that the last two – three seasons were good for potato and the area under the crop also increased. “This time production is good and if things don’t improve a major part of the produce would simply left to be rotten,” he said.
 
 Kala Sanghia-based potato grower Gurminder Singh, a middle-level grower, said that farmers were now striving to recover their costs only and even that seems to be an uphill task.
 
 “We don’t have any money to sow maize crop and have no money to pay the land owners whose lands we have taken on annual contract,” said Nawan Pind-based small farmer Mandeep Singh. “For us pangs of demonetisation are far from over,” he added.
 
 
