CHENNAI: A couple of days ago, Tirunelveli-based Walter   flew to   to join   (the first person to walk to both the  ) for a 12-day expedition to Antarctica, starting on March 6. The expedition is aimed at creating awareness about  . 

 Fernando, who runs a banana plantation in Tirunelveli, said as a farmer-entrepreneur “he is worried about effects of climate change“. For this 27-year-old, the expedition to Antarctica is just a beginning. After returning from the expedition, he plans to travel across Tamil Nadu to create awareness on climate change.
 
 It was the long tours on his bike across the country and abroad that created in Fernando a passion towards the environment. After finishing his post-graduation in Australia, he returned to Chennai to set up a company to export agricultural products. “My involvement in the agriculture sector gave me more ground to implement ideas and solutions to help the ecosystem. I felt the need to gain a perspective on climate change and the environment. But I needed an opportunity that would give me authority and leadership to speak about the issue,“ he said.
 
 This is when he came across Robert Swan's work and applied for the “Leadership on the Edge“ programme that selects 100 people from all over the world to embark on an expedition to Antarctica. A few days later, Fernando received a message from Swan inviting him to join the expedition. Although the expedition was estimated to cost more than Rs 10 lakh, he managed to fund it through crowd-sourcing. “It has been more than a decade since I first saw the documentary, “An inconvenient truth“ by Al Gore which exposed the damage we have caused to our planet over the last century. We haven't made any progress in reducing our carbon footprint even after ten years.So I decided to join the expedition,“ said Fernando.
 
 The company `2041' was founded by Swan, who promotes green energy to combat the effects of climate change. But still, why go all the way to Antarctica? “Since 2003, the leadership programme of 2041 has been creating climate change ambassadors who would be the future decision makers and leaders to keep the Antarctic treaty intact in 2041,“ he said.
 
 “My next plans include efficient usage of water at the farm level, incorporating solar energy into the farming sector and launching a few small scale urban farm projects,“ said Fernando.
 
