GURUGRAM: Sunday’s accident, in which Delhi high court   Sunil Seth (53) slipped while trying to negotiate a steep turn on his superbike near Pachgaon to enter NH-8, and died, has once again thrust unwanted spotlight on  .

 Seth, a resident of Sector 30 in Gurugram, was riding a   Softail. It weighs 318 kg, and is the second heaviest bike in Harley’s stable. Investigating officer SI Dharam Singh said Seth’s pillion rider, his friend Neeraj Sethi (45), who was also injured in the accident, is undergoing treatment in Rockland Hospital, Gurugram.
 
 Initial rumours around Seth being an amateur rider have been dispelled. He is now confirmed to have been a seasoned rider, who had rented other Harley models from   India, situated on Golf Course road in Sector 56, the spokesperson of the rental agency told TOI.
 
 Eagle Riders prides itself in following international rental guidelines, making sure those renting their superbikes take a test ride which is supervised by an experienced rider. This is not the first accident involving a superbike. According to Bishwaroop Banerjee, owner of Motozeil, which organises guided tours for superbike riders, accidents are quite common, and he has himself suffered falls.
 
 But Banerjee claimed they are extra cautious while renting out bikes, and only give them to known people or through recommendations by friends. 
 
 The market for leasing superbikes is populated by private players. There is no regulation or separate norms for riding superbikes, apart from the regular license. 
 
 Nitin Sharma of TNT Motorcycles said the notion of sports and superbikes among Indians is not nuanced. “Most Indians ride bikes of around 100-150cc for commutes. People assume just because they have balance, they can ride any bike. This is not true,” he said. In his book, only those who drive superbikes qualify as ‘riders’.
 
 A number of rider groups operate out of NCR. They meet for trips, both short and long, ranging from a day to a week. Riding formations, whether zig-zag, one-by-one or two-by-two, decided by a senior and experienced lead rider, are used to adapt to roads and traffic. Groups are tailed by another experienced rider, to make sure no one is left behind. New members are inducted after a thorough testing process. 
 
 According to Banerjee, in his rider group, plans are made well in advance over WhatsApp. “We don’t release our plans on Facebook or other public platforms, to avoid attention,” he said.
 
 The most frequented routes, which earlier included NH-8 towards Jaipur, have now shifted towards Gurgaon-Faridabad road and the newly-constructed KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) expressway. In Gurugram, there are a number of cafés, including Bikers Café and Throttle Shrottle, which are frequented by bikers.
 
 According to Banerjee, mature rider groups take precautions about ride speed, topography and geography. They do plan some high speed challenges as well, but these are kept a secret. According to a rider who wished to remain anonymous, KMP expressway has become a hotspot for such challenges, where riders touch speeds as high as 180-200km/hr. Banerjee agreed, “KMP is a dangerous road. There are kids running all over who stop to peer at riders from close, and pose a huge risk,” he said.
 
 Sharma said Indian roads are not conducive to such high speed riding. “A stone chip on the surface can dislodge these heavy bikes at high speeds, causing accidents.” 
 
 As riders across NCR mourn the death of one of their own, it’s also a warning for the community to indulge in safe riding practices. But, as Banerjee said, “Mature bikers are aware of the risks they undertake when they step on these bikes.”
 
 
