Bhopal: “Erosion of values’ weighed way too much on their minds. Apparently, the ‘upset’ Chhindwara administration decided to step in and issue an order to observe Matra Pitra Pujya Diwas on February 14 in the district this year. It stressed the need among children and youths to demonstrate respect towards their parents on the day, when most youngsters would be out celebrating Valentine’s Day. The choice of the day is not lost on many. Incidentally, Valentine’s Day is observed every year on February 14. 

 The order issued by Chhindwara district collector JK Jain asks all educational institutes and social organisations to observe Matra Pitra Pujya Diwas on February 14. It is expected of families, villages and cities under the district to give it elaborate form, the order stated. The bizarre order has gone viral on social networking sites.
 
 The order, a copy of which is with TOI, has been sent to all government and private-run colleges of the district. Besides, it has been marked to district education officer, district coordinator, district education centre, principals of middle and high school and assistant director, public relations department.
 
 The choice of February 14 has taken many officials by surprise. Some officers said it was the first time when they came across such a directive. But they preferred not to be vocal about it as it has come from none other than the collector. The district collector is incommunicado after the order went viral. The phones calls and SMS to the district collector did not get any response. The order did not make mention of Valentine’s Day. 
 
 Dead set against any display of love in public places, saffron organisations in the state make no secret of their opposition to Valentine’s Day. Every year, they even issue weird diktats like marrying couples if boy and girls are found dating on this day.
 
 The order did not go well with the city youths, who felt celebrating Valentine’s Day and respecting parents are two different things. Questioning wisdom of the Diwas on February 14, Rajesh Chaube, a college student says, “It is strange to show respect to parents only on a particular day and not on every day.” 
 
 But, observing Matra Pitra Pujya Diwas on February 14 is nothing new. Devesh Udasi, a resident of Bhopal’s satellite town, Bairagarh, says February 14 is observed as Matra Pitra Pujan Diwas for past some years. It is done by supporters of self-styled ‘godman‘ Asaram Bapu, who is now behind bars. Hoardings have come up in Chhindwara with pictures of Asaram asking people to mark the day as Matra Pitra Pujan Diwas.
 
 Chhindwara, some 270 km from Bhopal, is the Lok Sabha constituency of senior Congress leader Kamal Nath. Chhindwara was in news last month after a young IPS officer Gaurav Tiwari was transferred there on January 9 from Katni for investigating role of some influential leaders of the BJP for their alleged link to Rs 500-crore hawala racket in Katni. 
 
 A similar order was also issued in Solapur in Maharashtara. It stated on February 14, the great freedom fighters, who lost their life must be remembered.
 
 
