THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In order to provide proper shelter for child rape survivors and victims of human trafficking, the state government is planning to set up four more   and improve the facilities at the existing ones. 

 At a high-level executive meet convened by social justice minister K K Shaylaja with   Cell officials and other stakeholders, the minister directed the authorities to ensure that abuse survivors get proper treatment, counselling support, food and education. 
 
 There are 12 Nirbhaya homes in the state with over 300 inmates. Among the inmates, 46 girls have given birth till date and more than half of them have surrendered their babies to the government for adoption. Of the 12 homes, eight are functioning under the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society. Currently, there are no such shelter homes in Kottayam,  , Pathanamthitta and Kannur. The social justice department (SJD) has invited letters of interest from voluntary organisations to set up the homes. 
 
 "The proposal from an NGO to set up a Nirbhaya home in Kannur is likely to be approved soon. The proposals to set up such facilities in Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha will be examined by the district child protection officers (DCPOs). In  , a new building has been constructed for the purpose," SJD director TV Anupama said. 
 
 The government is also planning to set up a model Nirbhaya shelter home in five acres in Alappuzha and has set aside Rs 2 crore for the purpose. Plans are afoot for setting up a transit home or after-care home at Edakatt in   for the rehabilitation of inmates of Nirbhaya home after the trial and the working group has set aside a project proposal of Rs 46 lakh, said an SJD official. 
 
 "We are also planning to release Rs 2.30 lakh per month to each of the shelter homes. It will cover expenses for food, clothing, transportation among other things," the SJD official added. 
 
 However, official sources said fund release has been delayed. "Earlier, SJD had set aside Rs 2,650 for the monthly expense on food for an inmate and now that has been slashed to Rs 2,000. While, the state seems to promote private organisations, which charge huge rentals, organisations which are willing to offer expert care at reasonable costs have been side-lined," an official said. 
 
