NEW DELHI: It took the British Supreme Court all of 81 days to rule in January that Parliament alone had the right to trigger Brexit, dashing Prime Minister Theresa May’s hopes of starting the process of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union without the intervention of MPs and their peers.
 
  Businessman  , who is facing extradition from Britain over unpaid loans taken for the defunct   Airlines, however, appeared not to have taken the swift pace of the British delivery system into account when he told Indian media persons in London last month to “keep dreaming about a billion pounds”.
  
  Unlike Indian courts, where a litigation can be stretched for years, the British justice dispensation system has little room for such manipulation. With the British Crown Court fixing December 4 as the final hearing date in Mallya’s extradition case, the verdict is highly unlikely to be delayed beyond February 2018, according to British barristers.
  
  Add to it a minimum of six months and a maximum of one year for the British High Court, the appellate court, to decide on the appeal against the decision of the Crown Court, they said. And similar is the time, perhaps less, that the British Supreme Court is expected to take to decide the fate of the former liquor baron.
  
  That is, except if the Indian investigative agencies produce some “fresh evidence” against Mallya, which may lead to a delay, although an insignificant one, in the proceedings.
  
  Extradition is fundamentally a “short trial” where unlike a normal trial witnesses ought not to be produced. The decision whether to extradite depends on the “evidence” and records produced by the prosecuting agency, and the court is required to reach a prime facie conclusion whether to order extradition of the individual in question.
  
  The final say, going by the rulebook, rests with the British government, which has the power to retain an individual despite the order of the country’s highest court. However, according to experts, this is highly unlikely in cases of economic offence.
  
  An exception may be made in a case where a person is accused of committing a political offence, unlike Mallya, who stands accused of money laundering, duping banks, and cheating, among other criminal offences.
  
  For Mallya, who may claim “political witch-hunt” as his defence, the Indian investigative agencies plan to highlight his alleged money laundering activities as he stands accused of defaulting on bank loans of Rs 9,000 crore. With Prime Minister   seeking his British counterpart’s help earlier this week for the return of economic offenders, the Indian side is working hard to make a solid legal case for the Crown Prosecution Service.
  
  India has had a dismal record when it comes to Britain allowing its extradition requests. Of the several requests India has made to the British since 1992, only one has fructified so far, perhaps a reason for Mallya to smile.
  
  With two charge sheets already filed against him, by the CBI and Enforcement Directorate, Mallya may face further legal trouble though as agencies are busy digging dirt against him in another case registered against him on the complaint of the State Bank of India. Besides, as ET had first reported, the involvement of as many as 23 banks in doling out loans without any securities to Mallya is under the scanner. 
