THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   is pulling out all stops to eradicate   from the capital district. As on Sunday, when the officials completed door-to-door visit to 200 houses at  , the place from where the highest number of dengue cases were reported, it was found that around 20% of the houses here have been lying locked (unoccupied at present).

 “The possibility of breeding spaces in backyards and sunshades of these houses are high. Also, we could not check the houses of working couple as they were away for work during our visits, said one of the field officers of the health department, who added that the callous attitude of the residents of Thirumala led to the surge in the number of dengue cases here.
 
 As per the data with the district medical office, 111 cases were confirmed at Nemom between January 1 to May 18 this year, and the place comes second to Thirumala. Nettayam, Pappanamcode and Ponnumangalam with 108, 92 and 75 patients respectively comes after Nemom. Coastal areas like Beemapally West and Valiyathura with 64 and 69 confirmed cases respectively too are crucially affected regions.
 
 The health department officials noted that that reason behind the outbreak of the disease differs from place to place. The coastal belt – Valiyathura, Vizhinjam, Anchuthengu, Poovar and Bheemapally West – is dotted with shallow wells that turns into breeding spaces for albopictus which in one of the two types of aedes mosquitoes that cause dengue.
 
 While aegyptic is known as urban vector and albopictus is believed to be the vector in rural regions. 
 
 Experts with district vector control unit point out that albopictus is found both in urban and rural areas in the city.
 
 “In places like   panchayat, which has 252 confirmed cases of dengue, the main reason behind the disease outbreak is the presence of a quarrywhich provide space for albopictus to multiply. The only way to address this issue is by introducing guppy fish at the quarry. Albopictus breeds more in rubber plantations/tapping areas and coastal regions. Usually, it starts breeding one week after the rains, inside abandoned tyres and coconut shells filled with rainwater,’’ said an official from district vector control unit.
 
 In the Nemom-Pappanamcode-estate belt, dengue cases were reported round the year and the main reason behind it was the lack of adequate staff at grass root level for vector control, said sources from the health department.
 
 Also, the large number of government institutions that has cement and syntax tanks turn into positive breeding spaces of mosquitoes. While the authorities have resorted to thermal fogging in crucially-affected areas, it may be noted that source elimination is the only effective measure to counter the crisis.
 
 
