I have just joined my first job and my boss is an attractive lady of 35. She is very strict, just like a school teacher. Whenever I make a blunder, she pulls my ears and slaps me inside her cabin, thankfully not in front of others. Every few days, I get a string of slaps on my cheeks. It was humiliating at first, but I kept mum since I needed the job. Since 2 months, I have started getting a strange pleasure from her slaps, sometimes I also feel aroused. What should I do? - By Anonymous

 
 Dear friend, I can understand that this could be a confusing situation for you, especially since this is your first experience at a work place.
 
 First of all, I would like to assure you that it is natural to feel attracted towards someone who you find beautiful and interesting. But the nature of your interactions with her may be making you feel contradictory things. For instance, you may feel attracted to her but you are also being hurt by her, so it may be mixing things up in your mind. I would like to point out a few important things for you to keep in mind.
 
 While it may feel convenient, exciting or even easy to bring your personal emotions to the work place, this will more often than not, lead to complications in your professional life. I can understand how tempting it can be, and how easy it is to lose control. But you hold the future of your career and life in your hands; you will need to take control where you see fit. 
 
 I would also like to point out that that way she is reprimanding you (by slapping or physically hurting), is generally not an acceptable form of mentoring or supervising. I completely understand that you don’t want to risk your position, but it may help to look into your options with either your HR department or others you trust within your own department or company.
 
 Take a moment to assess your situation and your goals for your future. Think about what’s important to you now, and what will be important for your future. You may be at the start of your career, but take this as an experience to learn how to navigate through life and work, and on how to deal with people.
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
