A tussle for power at the   gram panchayat elections in November 2015 purportedly led to a   filing a   of   against her co-workers in the city. This unravelled in the course of subsequent investigation, leading up to the Cantonment Court ordering on Friday that a criminal case be filed against Hadisunnisa Khan, the complainant, after it was found that the case of theft was bogus.

 The court presided by Joint Judicial Magistrate (first class) OA Sane has ordered that a criminal complaint be filed against Khan under Sections 203 and 211 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) — both provisions deal with filing of false complaints with the intent to injure and carry punishment which may go up to two years.
 
 Khan had in 2015 filed a case of theft of her Toyata Etios car with Wanowrie police station, alleging that the stolen vehicle was spotted with Wahab Khan and Anwar Khan in UP, following which the duo was arrested from there. They spent four days in a UP police lock-up, after which they were brought to Pune. Back in the city, they spent another four days in Wanowrie police cell and were eventually remanded in magisterial custody. After spending two more days in jail, they were released on bail.
 
 As the probe proceeded, cops were determined that Khan had filed a false case. The cops filed a closure report on the grounds that the accused and Khan knew each other well, a fact not detailed by Khan in her complaint.
 
 Cops were able to find out that the car was bought in Khan's name and monthly instalments were being paid by Wahab. It was easy for the police to deduce that it was not a case of theft, but that Khan allegedly had an ulterior motive behind filing the complaint.
 
 After the cops filed a closure report in August 2016, Wahab and Anwar told the court that the entire case was a result of personal enmity. They pinned it to the panchayat elections in UP, where one of their relatives was contesting against Khan's kin. Khan had allegedly asked them to get their relative to withdraw from the race. "My father was contesting the elections in Rampur Arna village, Balrampur district, UP. A friend of Hadisunnisa Khan's husband was also in the race. She had asked me to tell my father to withdraw; and when my father refused to relent, she got enraged," Wahab told Mirror. While Wahab and Anwar were in the village for the elections, Khan filed the complaint with Wanowrie police.
 
 When the matter came up before the court, Wahab and Anwar were acquitted. The court observed that there was merit in the theory of the gram panchayat elections. "The reason stated by witness in respect of dispute of election of gram panchayat in their village appears to be probable (sic)," the court observed in its order of November 8, 2016.
 
 After the duo was acquitted, they approached the courts again, this time turning the tables on Khan, seeking that she be booked for filing a false complaint against them. "We are hardworking people who spent 10 days behind bars just because somebody had an axe to grind with us. After the police case was filed against us, we had to face a lot of humiliation. Fortunately, people in our village had faith in us and my father won the elections then. However, I ended up behind bars," said Wahab. He added that once he was acquitted for the crime, he decided to not give up without a fight. "The court had acquitted Anwar and me. But I wanted to prove that I am not going to take such things lightly," he added.
 
 "The assistant superintendent, Cantonment Court, Pune is hereby authorised to file a written criminal complaint in the criminal court against respondent Hadisunnisa Khan for the offence punishable under sections 203 and 211 of the Indian Penal Code," Joint JMFC OA Sane ordered on Friday.
 
 The court observed that one cannot 'pollute the stream of justice'. "It is cases like these, with false claims (or false defences) which load the courts, cause delays, consume judicial time and bring a bad name to the judicial system. This case is a sample where the facts are glaring. Even if they were not so glaring, once falsehood is apparent, to not take action would be improper.... The stream of justice has to be kept clear and pure and no one can be permitted to take liberties with it by soiling its purity," the order stated.
 
 Speaking to Pune Mirror, advocate Harshad Mandke said, "The magistrate considered all the facts and realised that a false FIR was filed which caused injury to both the victims,"said Mandke. He added that his clients have also filed a separate case in Civil Court, seeking compensation of Rs 90 lakh from Khan as damages. The case is being heard.
 
 In her defence, Khan said, "I will appeal against the decision of the magistrate court. The police machinery worked against me while investigating the theft case. They took advantage of my inability to understand the local language, took my signatures on the papers, keeping me in the dark." She further added that one of the accused, Anwar, was her driver, with whom she had no business link. "The allegation of personal grudges are wrong. No relative of mine was contesting the election in UP," she clarified.
 
 
 ¦ We are hardworking people who spent 10 days behind bars just because somebody had an axe to grind with us
 
 — Wahab Khan
 
