Once upon a time, these were the city’s shadow men. For them, dating meant a quiet evening at Minto Park or wandering around the crowded railway stations in search of anonymity. On days their wallets were full, they would sneak into Pub7, the disco atop Globe cinema. The meetings had to be discreet, for this was the time when homosexuality was a crime both in letter and in spirit. While the world of straight people in Kolkata discovered online dating on   and Orkut, gay men preferred to keep their affairs under wraps. But that was the early 2000s. The world of gay dating has undergone a complete change, with a host of gay dating apps opening up the community to exciting, new possibilities. Starting with PlanetRomeo a few years back, other apps like  , Scruff, Hornet and GROWLr have made finding partners that much easier for gay men. But has this freedom also brought with it a sense of love?

 
 Speaking about dating in the LGBTQ community, gay rights activist Pawan Dhall tells us that much before the apps were created, there were e-forums that helped communication. “Counsel Club would bring out a queer journal called Pravartak and there used to be fortnightly or monthly meetings for the community people. Throughout the ’90s and 2000, there would be gay parties and film fests pertaining to the community, so the dating scene was active,” he adds.What the apps have helped with is anonymity. “If you want, you can keep your identity hidden,” Pawan says. That, of course, helps people who are cruising, a loaded term in the LGBTQ community. “Cruising is looking out for sexual/ romantic partners. In our society, there is so much silence around homosexuality that I feel even those who claim they are cruising, are actually looking for friends, otherwise they are often alienated.”
 
 
 Choreographer Swarnavo Kris Basak, who’s in his late 20s, remembers a time when his mother realised that he was gay. “That was back in 2008. She made peace with it but my grandparents asked me to get married. They were worried as to how I’d have a baby — they even suggested surrogacy. But finally, they seem to be accepting my orientation. I have someone special in my life. We go out together, kiss openly at parties and have fun like any other straight couple would. There aren’t too many places in Kolkata that are LGBT friendly. Here, if you dress effeminately, people will pick on you. It angers me. The city hasn’t reached a point where people mind their own business. I blame our conservative society for this,” he feels.
 
 
 
 Banker Shankhadeep Mitra says that finding like-minded people was difficult till he discovered Grindr. The app, which uses geolocation, allows one to locate other users who are nearby. Life, for him, has not been the same ever since. “You can link your account to   and   and chances of coming across authentic users are high. Once people connect, they can also share their common interests. I have seen people sharing their love for literature, photographs and travelling. It’s not always about finding a bedmate. People who came across on Grindr also set up small businesses,” explains Shankhadeep. Some of the users became such good friends with him that Shankhadeep didn’t mind introducing them to his family. “I am lucky to have come across quality people. There are RJs and singers who’ve helped me explore my creative side. Though we met through the app, we are very good friends now and there’s never a dearth of conversation,” he adds.
 
 
 
 Not many, however, are as lucky as Swarnavo or Shankhadeep. Stylist   said though the dating apps have tremendous potential, many look for only action ‘under the blanket’. “I have known people who have hit it off after finding each other on dating apps, but there are also 
 many unwanted people. That’s why many users hide their identities till they’re sure of the other person,” 
 says Anupam. Then there are those who prefer meeting in person than through an app. Debasish Sen, a student who has used both Grindr and PlanetRomeo, feels that the apps fail to fulfil his ‘mental need’ though they gave him a sense of breaking free. “When I was in school, most of my classmates refused to sit next to me. Once I got involved with a boy from my class, his friends abused me and complained to the headmaster. I was the soft target in school. So, when I came across these apps, they gave me a sense of freedom. I could meet people without the fear of being judged,” he stresses. But in a few years boredom crept in. “I didn’t have a single romantic relationship. Around this time, I joined an activist group, Bandhan, where many from the LGBT community meet frequently. I find it more convenient than apps,” he reasons.
 
 
 
 While it’s only in recent years that gay dating apps have become popular in Kolkata, the city is lagging far behind than the country’s capital. In early 2000s, actor-elocutionist Sujoy Prosad Chatterjee was studying in Delhi, when he was exposed to gay parties. “There would be regular parties at farmhouses and nightclubs. Also, Grindr became popular in the capital after its launch in 2009, while it took Kolkata a couple of years to catch up. I joined the app after it had caught on here. I even went on a few dates, but none was satisfying. There are many bi-curious users, who exploit gay men for both money and fun,” he says. Rohan Ghose Chaudhuri, a PR professional who returned to Kolkata from Delhi five months back, has had similar experiences. “Fake users are on the rise and that’s a huge threat. The apps have given a thrust to dating, but most users opt for one-night stands. It’s easy as you can see the other users who are around your location, meet up and have fun,” he reveals.
 In Kolkata, the cruising scene is a far cry from that in Delhi and Rohan explains, “Delhi is a multi-cultural city. On Tuesdays and Saturdays, gay parties are held at specific lounges and nightclubs. Nowaways, gay massage parlours have also opened where one can take sauna and steam baths and relax in the company of similar people. There are coffee shops around these parlours, where one can start a conversation and see where it goes.” There’s one more area where the city lags behind. “The mindset,” Rohan tells us pointedly. Unfortunately, there’s no app to change that.
 
 
