CHANDIGARH: While the Haryana government is patting its back for improving the sex ratio by cracking down on medicos killing the girl child in the womb, ambiguity in the law regarding open retail sale of MTP kits (mifepristone and misoprostrol) in the state is still allowing rampant use of such pills for sex-selective abortions. There is no clarity under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971, over illegal sale of these kits by chemists and involvement of other non-registered medical practitioners.

 Many a time, chemists arrested for sale of MTP kits, which were later used to abort a foetus, have taken the plea before courts that they had not committed any illegal act because the sale of the kit was not prohibited under the MTP Act.
 
 As per the data procured from the state health department, during the raids conducted in the past one and a half years, around 170 cases under the MTP Act were registered in which medical practitioners and unregistered practitioners were found using such kits for illegal abortions. Out of them, around 90 cases of illegal sale of such kits were registered against chemists.
 
 Even a thorough probe carried by the state also found that the health department was constantly receiving complaints from various districts from where the patients were administered with medicines contained in the MTP kit. Thereafter the same patients were being admitted in various hospitals in a critical state and in such cases, the foetus was destroyed, sometimes proving fatal to the women.
 
 These early pregnancy termination drugs can be legally procured from pharmacist by furnishing a prescription and there are no further regulations to ensure they are not being misused by the person purchasing it.
 
 While hearing one a plea by a Karnal based chemist in October last year, Justice A B Chaudhari of the Punjab and Haryana high court had asked the Haryana government that state should regulate and consider the question about prohibition for chemist in selling the MTP kits or to regulate the sale thereof on urgent basis.
 
 Even the advocate general office Haryana in its opinion given in November last year, had suggested that law regarding illegal sale of MTP kits by the chemists and the involvement of other no-registered medical practitioners is still ambiguous and needs clarity.
 
 These kits are easily available in chemist shops on payment of Rs 500 on a doctor’s prescription and on Rs 800-1,000 illegally. There are no regulations or control over sale to ensure that these pills are not misused even if purchased on prescription from a licenced chemist.
 
 President of Chemist Association, Haryana,   said they were being harassed by department despite the fact that a licencee chemist can sell pills. “If government does not have any regulations or rules under a specific act, chemists should not be held responsible for any illegality or misuse of such kits. We have given a representation through All India   to the state for not harassing chemists,” Khurana said.
 
 Social activist and former director general of Haryana health services Dr   said drug contained in MTP kits couldn’t be banned completely because its use was essential for gynaecologists and other authorized doctors not only to induce abortion but also in incomplete abortions. “To stop their misuse in killing female foetus, there has to be strong vigilance by the department as well as some regulations through an immediate executive order on its sale by chemist,” Dr Dahiya said.
 
 Vikash Malik, a lawyer who deals with such cases, said unless some regulations were notified in the Act, the cases against chemists may fall flat during trials.
 
 Accepting misuse of MTP kits in illegal abortions in the state, state health services DG Dr   said the department was concerned over the situation and a committee, headed by legal remembrance, had been set up to consider the question about prohibition for chemist in selling the MTP kits or to regulate the sale thereof on urgent basis.
 
