NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   has asked his ministers to follow up on ideas proposed by groups of secretaries set up by him, fix clear cut timelines for implementation of the proposals and also seek budgetary support wherever needed.

 The advisory follows presentations made before   over the past few days, where the Prime Minister participated actively during all the presentations, officials said.
 
 “It was a creative exercise initiated by the PM with the purpose of bringing about transformative ideas in the various areas of governance and national development through brainstorming and constructive discussions. In such meetings in which critical perspectives, innovative ideas and best practices are discussed, there is bound to be a scope for fine- tuning the ideas to a new level of excellence and practicality,” said a source.
 
 The system of getting secretaries to brainstorm and come up with innovative ideas was launched by Modi last year and several proposals, such as advancing the budget date, were the result of the exercise undertaken last year. Pushing farm sector funding through Nabard was another proposal that emerged from deliberations with secretaries, and was accepted by the government.
 
 PM sits through meetings, seeking clarifications and also encouraging the participants to elaborate upon suggestions and often exploring whether they can be elevated to the level of schemes. Sources also clarified that the PM did not walk out of a presentation earlier this week because he was not satisfied with the quality of presentation. “He had to go for a meeting of the   of  . He sat through the presentation well before when he was supposed to leave,” said a source.
 
 In fact, even this year, the government is expected to incorporate several suggestions made by the panels in the budget. Sources said that following the last presentation on Friday, each minister has now been tasked with looking into the ideas that have been proposed and working out the time-frame with the cabinet secretary for implementing them.
 
 In addition, ministers are being advised to take up proposals that would require additional funding with the finance ministry, which would take the final call. This exercise is particularly critical given that the current plan period is getting over in March.
 
 Although there would be no five-year plans, several schemes would be taken up on a three-year basis.
 
 
