CHENNAI: You will be able to travel between cities in 18-coach self-propelled trains that can travel at 160kmph, in a year or two if everything works as per the plan laid out by the ministry of railways. The bi-directional trains, called Train-18, will have executive class coaches and are expected to cut down travelling time on some routes like   to just three to four hours.

 Integral Coach Factory (ICF) will design and manufacture the trains based on a rough draft of features indicated by the ministry of railways.Once the design is finalised, the first rake is expected to be ready in three to six months.The ministry has been discussing such train sets for more than a year for operating highspeed day time services on routes that can be covered in less than five hours and have potential for business travel. Chennai-Bengaluru,  ,   are some of the routes which have the potential for operating high-speed train sets in Southern Railway. Railway Board will decide on the routes on requests from diffe rent railway zones. A senior railway official said, “We have firmed up a basic design of selfpropelled high-speed trains which will be used to connect cities that see demand for business travel. The rake will have 16 to 18 coaches. All the coaches are likely to be of executive class category . Regular chair car coaches can also be made.“
 
 Sources said that it would take around two months to finalise whether the entire rake should have executive chair cars or some of them should have ordinary chair cars as well. Every coach will have two toilets and a small pantry .Other features include an information display board, public address system and screwless panels. It will have revol ving chairs which can be set to suit the direction of the train.
 
 ICF, which has expertise in making self-propelled coaches and metro rail coaches, is planning to mount the coaches on the type of bogies used for Kolkata metro rail.“The best of the features developed by ICF and Railway Coach Factory at Kapurthala will be incorporated into the rakes“ the official said.
 
 Railways was earlier planning to rope in an international consultant to design the rake. This move has now been dropped and Railway Board has asked ICF to design it. The rakes are part of the railways plan to offer high-speed connectivity between cities that can be covered by day trips.
 
