 I loved a girl. Told her about my love towards her. Though she was friendly and we spoke regularly, she never accepted my love. I accepted her rejection and my parents found a match for me. I agreed to an arranged marriage proposal. Meanwhile, the girl whom I loved proposed to me. I rejected her proposal telling her that my marriage is fixed. I recently got engaged and the girl whom I love attempted suicide after knowing about my engagement. I am unable to decide what to do. If I break off the engagement, my family reputation would take a beating among my relatives and otherwise, I will be betraying the girl whom I loved. Please help me. It's urgent! -By Anonymous

 
  Dear reader, it is a very confusing state to be in and can sometimes feel very stressful. A decision like this affects all parties involved - the girl you are in love with, the girl you are engaged to, both the families and most importantly you. 
 
 The most important question here is where does your happiness lie? If you feel that you have moved on from your previous emotions of love and can have a happy future with your fiancé then go ahead with the wedding. However, if you see your life being happier with the girl you loved, then take the necessary steps to end the engagement. Knowing what you really want is of utmost importance. I would urge you to reflect on that without worrying about what is socially right or wrong. 
 
 Marriages anyway require a lot of investment. Adding a complication like this will make the impending union a possible doom. An inherently happy individual can make a marriage happy and family life with parents happy. So be aware of what will bring lasting happiness for you.
 
 If you will not be wholeheartedly invested in your marriage, your fiancé will not be able to live a happy life ahead. It is better for her to let go of her engagement now than live a life without a healthy relationship in the future. However, unfair and painful it may seem to her now, trust that she will heal from this broken engagement and have a better chance of future happiness later.
 
 Regarding the other girl you were in love with, she probably took her time to realise and understand her own emotions. Very often, when the option seizes to exist is when we realise the value of the person. A sense of loss then seems unbearable which explains the attempted suicide. However, don't let that put any guilt or pressure on your decision. Take an independent decision, and trust that she will find a way to recover from the loss and survive it if you choose to go ahead with your marriage.
 
 In India, a marriage is not just of two individuals but also involves consent and co-existence amongst all the family members. If your parents would not have a problem with your choice of partner originally, had you expressed it to them prior to the engagement and commitment, then chances are that they will reluctantly allow you to take your decision even if it makes it difficult with the relatives. Ultimately, parents want their children to be happy, thus trust that your family will heal from the loss of their reputation in the society should you choose to break the engagement,
 
 We are designed to heal and learn from our loss, be it a loss of love, reputation or a broken engagement. Thus, reflect and be convinced about where your happiness lies and where will you be best able to keep your partner and family happy. Once you decide that please sit down personally with all the parties involved and express yourself. It may come as a shock to them initially. Give them time to grieve the loss. Time, patience and a right frame of mind will help them deal with it eventually
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
