NEW DELHI:   will not challenge the bail granted to   in the   case two months ago. Its decision is based on a couple of   verdicts that had justified bail to “non-hardcore” terror undertrials on grounds of delayed prosecution and long incarceration.

 Aseemanand had walked free in March this year after he was granted bail by a Hyderabad court in the 2007 case. At the time, he was already on bail in the 2007 Samjhauta Express case and had just got acquitted in the Ajmer Sharif blast case.
 
 Home ministry sources told TOI that NIA took a decision around 20 days back not to appeal against the Hyderabad court’s bail order.
 
 NIA chief Sharad Kumar, when contacted, refused to confirm or deny the development. Earlier, the agency had refused to challenge bail granted to Aseemanand by the Punjab & Haryana high court in the 2008 Samjhauta blast case, taking the view that there were no legal grounds to file an appeal in the SC.
 
 Sources said NIA’s decision not to challenge Aseemanand’s bail in the Mecca masjid case is based on Supreme Court verdicts in the Shaheen Welfare Association Vs Union of India & Others case (1996) and Jayant Kumar Ghosh Vs NIA case (2014).
 
 The SC, in its ruling on the PIL filed by Shaheen Welfare Association seeking certain relief to undertrial prisoners charged under the now-repealed TADA, had divided TADA detenues in four categories. 
 
 While Category A comprised hardcore terror undertrials whose release would prejudice prosecution and whose liberty may be menace to the society, the other 3 categories had prisoners who were involved in terror cases but were not a threat to prosecution or society.
 
 The SC ruled that while Category A cannot receive liberal treatment, Category B undertrials who have been in prison for five years or more and their trial not likely to end in next six months, could be released. For category C and D, it said they could be released on bail after 2-3 years in jail.
 
 Incidentally, the Punjab & Haryana High Court, in Aseemanand’s bail order in Samjhauta case, had cited the aforesaid verdict, saying that he did not fall in Category A and was worthy of bail. It also cited his long incarceration without any prospect of early conclusion of trial, pending examination of over 200 prosecution witnesses, his education upto M.Sc level, age and good conduct in jail as grounds for granting bail.
 
 In the Jayant Kumar Ghosh vs NIA case, the SC while reversing a Gauhati high court order denying bail to the appellant, had observed that with his having spent 5 years in prison as undertrial and 160 of the nearly 200 prosecution witnesses yet to be examined, he could not be held in custody for eternity.
 
 In the Mecca Masjid blast case, the NIA is yet to examine around 140 of the nearly 300 prosecution witnesses. “So, Aseemanand, who was arrested in 2010 and has spent more than 6 years in prison, too cannot be eternally held in custody” said an officer. 
 
