PATNA: Members of   on Monday discussed how to ensure their increased participation in politics in order to have more say in policy matters. 

 Deliberating over gender parity and women empowerment, the state members of Women’s Political Forum at a meeting held at   (BIA) decided to prepare a blueprint in this regard and to send it to CM Nitish Kumar for consideration and implementation. Their discussion was focused on how women are often considered inferior to men in politics, which is still a male-dominated field. 
 
 Transgender activist   said if Indian society considers women equal to men, the women reservation bill should be passed by Parliament. She also demanded 50% reservation for women instead of 33% proposed in the bill. 
 
 The meeting referred to the Inter-parliamentary Union list published on January 1 this year. The data of 193 countries have been compiled in the list in terms of women representation in legislature. India is ranked 148th as only 11.8% women are elected to Parliament. India is far below Saudi Arabia (98th with 19.9%) and Pakistan (89th with 20.6%) in terms of women’s representation in parliament. The list quotes Rwanda on top with 61.3% women’s representation in its parliament. 
 
 Women are often questioned about their capabilities in politics, said   vice-president  . “Women would rather excel in politics as they are expert in multitasking. But, it is often seen that women oppress their sisters the most. It is also relevant to note that we must change our attitude before trying to change the society. We should not only teach our daughters to be fearless and strive harder for success, but also ask our sons to respect every woman,” she said.
 
 JD(U) spokesperson Bharti Mehta said dreams often take a back seat when compared to responsibilities thrust upon women. “Women labourers are paid less wage compared to men. The need of the hour is to empower women from all sections of the society,” she said.
 
 The organizers even read a letter written to the forum by CM, who congratulated them on holding this discussion and wished them well in future. 
 
