CHANDIGARH:  , a leading   and breeder who played a key role in ushering in the   in India, passed away in US on Sunday. Known for his pioneering work in developing wheat varieties from the Mexican strains brought to India in the 1960s, he worked closely with other stalwart farm scientists like Nobel laureate Norman Ernest Borlaug, Professor M S Swaminathan, former director general of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), and former vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Prof Khem Singh Gill. 

 Prof Athwal was the founder and head of department of plant breeding at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). He is known for contributions to the genetics and breeding of pearl millet, wheat, gram and tobacco.
 
 Prof Khem Singh said, "I met him in 1951 in Jalandhar in the department of cereals, cotton and oil seeds as at that time the PAU was not established. Athwal came from Australia and joined as an assistant researcher. I was already working in the department as an assistant researcher. He was a very good researcher and also a very good human being. Both of us later joined PAU when it was established in 1962."
 
 Remembering him as a rare breed of dedicated farm scientists who led by example, another former V-C of PAU Prof Kirpal Singh Aulakh said, "We don't get such men today. He was intelligent and extremely hard working at the same time. I remember Prof Athwal visiting the research farms on a bicycle without caring about anything from 1962 to 1964 when I was pursuing M Sc from PAU. His focus was really inspiring for young agriculture science students like us, back then."
 
 In a press release issued by the PAU, V-C B S Dhillon stated, "Athwal developed world's first grain pearl millet hybrid 'Hybrid Bajra 1' in 1965 that heralded a new era in cultivation of this important crop," he said.
 
 Prof Athwal was instrumental in developing 'PV 18' in 1966 and the most popular amber grained wheat variety 'Kalyansona' in 1967, named after the village 'Kalyanpur' in Punjab where Athwal was born in 1928.
 
 A large number of genetic stocks developed by him made a significant contribution to future research on bajra breeding and genetics. He joined the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Manila (Philippines) in 1967, and served as its first deputy director general. At IRRI, he introduced many innovations in rice breeding.
 
