BHOPAL: While Congress and   hold similar views on protecting sources of party fund, the BJP has asked all its state units to open bank accounts in each district and not to accept cash donations — apart from exceptional cases. 

 A meeting of state BJP district units on Friday to set a target of Ajeevan Sahyog Nidhi’ (lifetime party fund) at Rs 11 crore for 2017 against Rs 8 crore last year. The party will deposit lifetime donations on February 11, ‘Samarpan Divas’, to mark the death anniversary of BJP ideologue Pt Deendayal Upadhyay. The state unit will deposit Rs 11 crore in the party fund.
 
 Delhi-based CA Veni Thapar gave a presentation on methods of accepting party funds. “We have asked party workers to accept party donations through digital mode or cheques. Cash donations will be accepted only when necessary or in exceptional cases. The party will ensure cash donations were received below Rs 20,000,” said BJP state president  , on Friday.
 
 As debate on political funding to parties is underway, it was pointed out a major chunk of the money donated to parties comes from ‘unknown sources’. These donations are declared in I-T return, but without giving source of income. But the BJP state head did not clarify this. He said several issues are likely to be discussed and the The party would follow national unit for any clarification. The party has not disclosed the source of funding during previous financial year. 
 
 It was PM Narendra Modi, who during a meeting with parliamentarians asked all BJP MPs should submit their bank statement to party president Amit Shah. The party would make clear why efforts like   to attack black money are pointless unless political funding is made transparent, said a party functionary quoting Modi.
 
 District heads will not encourage cash donations and bank accounts in each district will be opened in name of district head. It was mentioned demonetisation has affected funding in BJP, but the party will ask district heads to submit bank details.
 
 
