NEW DELHI: The   castigated the   government on Tuesday for coming up with a snail-paced recruitment plan to fill over 34,500 vacancies in its police force and warned that "someone will go to jail for this unless rectified forthwith". 

  A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul, which has been monitoring filling up of massive vacancies in state police departments, rejected Bihar's action plan after finding that it planned to take more than two years to fill vacant stenographers' posts. 
 
 The   said, "You are telling us that you will complete recruitment of stenos by July 2019. Is this some kind of joke? Are you making fun of us? You know that the Supreme Court is monitoring filling up of vacancies in police departments and yet you file this kind of an action plan? Somebody will go to jail for this unless it is rectified forthwith. Take this back. We are very angry with your government. You revise this action plan and give us back in quickest possible time, otherwise we will take action."
 
 A shaken Bihar home department official expressed willingness to make a correction right there. But the bench suggested that he take instructions from his department and submit a revised action plan by Friday.
 
 Appearing for Jharkhand, advocate Tapesh Kumar Singh told the court that the state has decided to gradually reduce constable posts by 6,148 and correspondingly increase posts of sub-inspector and other officers as it found that senior police officials strength needed to be increased to deal effectively with law and order situation and investigation of crimes.
 
 West Bengal government was mildly rebuked for taking too long to fill approximately 26,000 vacancies in its police force. Its counsel A K   informed the court that 4,375 posts of constables would be filled by July 31 and thereafter, the state would recruit 8,000 constables every year till 2020.
 
  The bench said, "Given the large number of vacancies, and keeping in mind the number of retirements, suspensions, deaths in harness and resignations each year in a big police force like yours, it would take the state years to fill vacant posts." It asked the state why it could not recruit 9,000 constables each year. 
 
  The state's additional secretary (home) informed the court that police constables on recruitment were required to undergo training before joining the force. He said the state had facility to train only 8,000 personnel every year. "It cannot take a single more personnel over and above 8,000 for training purposes," he said, but promised that training facilities would be increased by 2019 to accommodate 9,000 trainees. 
 
 The bench said it would later examine recruitment action plans of Bihar (34,500 vacancies), Jharkhand (26,303),   (28,580), Telangana (17,504) and Rajasthan (15,731).
 
 
