SECUNDERABAD: It’s been almost two years since the   police requested the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) for allotment of land for construction of new buildings for the Marredpally and Karkhana police stations, but the file is gathering dust. This, even as both the police stations continue to operate in British-era buildings — the Marredpally PS runs from the old customs department outpost houses and the Karkhana PS from an old cattle-shed!

 In November 2015, the deputy commissioner of police, North Zone (Secunderabad) had requested the Cantonment authorities to allot 4,000 square yards near Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) for a new Marredpally   building and 2,000 square yards for  . 
 
 But the SCB authorities allotted only 1,000 sq yards each for the two police stations at Jubilee Bus Station (JBS). The Cantonment Board also passed a resolution in December 2015 in this regard. 
 
 “The SCB had allotted Class ‘C’ land to the police stations on lease basis, renewable every five years as per instructions of the ministry of defence (MoD). Soon after the Board passed the resolution, the Cantonment authorities forwarded it to principal director, Director General Defence Estates, Southern Command, Pune and got clearance for allotment of land for Karkhana PS. But the response for the Marredpally PS land is still awaited,” sources in SCB told TOI. 
 
 Marredpally police station has a vast jurisdiction covering East/West Marredpally. Several major private schools, the Water Board office, women’s hostels, court complex, SCB main office, Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) and GHMC zonal office fall under it. 
 
 Construction of the new Karkhana PS, which covers Secunderabad Club, K V Picket, Diamond Point, Bowenpally Market Yard Road, LIC X Roads, Trimulgherry and  , began two months ago and is expected to be completed within one year. 
 
 When TOI contacted SCB assistant engineer Balakrishna, he said that unless the defence authorities in Pune gave clearance, they cannot hand over prime land for the new police station.
 
