The   has almost cooled off, the festivals are nearing an end and the party season has taken a back seat. One Sunday, as you rummage through your wardrobe full of sequinned dresses, heavy-duty saris and lehengas among other things, you wonder what happens to all of it. Add to this, the social media takeover has left everyone in a tizzy and ‘thou shalt not wear it once over’ has become the unsaid diktat. It’s strange how it is too lovely to be worn again. But don’t lose heart. Get your designer items out of the closet to reincarnate them with these three ways...

 
 
 The rise of   and apps has given birth to selling off pre-owned items, digitally. However, the key is to sell well. Most operators ensure keeping a check on the quality of products they are uploading on their website to avoid forged or poor quality items. On your part, make sure the buyers get to see what you’re trying to sell. Upload a front, back and side image along with a few inset images of the embroidery, pattern of the dress and other specifics like brand, size and actual price among other things.
 
 
 This may seem like an alien concept but keeps happening all the time. If you want to hold one, now’s the time. For starters, know that niche garage sales are more likely to pique people’s interest over regular ones. So, treat it like an event and name it, for instance, ‘Frills-n-Fancy’. Send out broadcast messages to your friends and acquaintances (word of mouth is the keyword here). If you are planning to host the sale at your place, have a mini-evening party with snacks, beverages and some music. Opt for attractive and innovative packaging methods. Most importantly, ensure that you offer prices that are a win-win for both the parties. Don’t be hesitant and end up underselling the outfit.
 
 
 
 Lastly, the most tried-n-tested approach, this is one of the oldest hacks. Clothes can be multi-used. So, bring out that ornate blouse as a crop top or a long kurta and team it with the everyday staple, palazzo or a maxi skirt. The kurti you wore with a Patiala can be teamed with dhoti or harem pants with some amount of embellishment. If you have worn a lehenga with a sexy choli for your BFF’s wedding, get a long jacket for your first cousin’s wedding to go with it. On a side note, it’s also nice to be good friends with ones whose clothing size is the same as yours. Borrow and steal, maybe? 
 
 
 
 a. Don’t flaunt too much of your outfit in any pic
 b. Upload a pic with the black-and-white filter
 c. Pose for a ‘candid shot’ where the focus is more on your expressions
 d. If you don’t grow out of size, wear your outfit after a year or two
 e. Ensure that you are not wearing it in front of the same people 
 
