KOCHI: Sreesanth, who has been banned for life after the IPL spot-fixing scandal in 2013, has challenged the   and announced through social media that he plans to play for his local club in Ernakulam on February 19 in a two-day league match. But on Wednesday evening, the BCCI sent out a letter to the   with details on the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the player in 2013. This comes as another blow for the 34-year old who was denied an NOC by the BCCI to play league cricket in Scotland last month.

 “@bcci @icc very happy to let u know that I am playing my first league match after 4 years .. (19th of this month.) can't wait to play in whites,“ Sreesanth tweeted this on Tuesday night. He then went on record and said he had not yet received any official correspondence about the ban and challenged the validity of the suspension letter issued to him while he was serving a jail sentence following the scandal.
 
  secretary Jayesh Gerge confirmed to TOI that he had received a letter from the BCCI on Wednesday. 
 
 “Today , we've approached the BCCI after Sreesanth publicly announced about his intention to play in the district league. I talked to the CEO   and MV Sridhar (cricket operations and general manager) and I've got a letter by evening from the BCCI. It has details on the ban order issued against Sreesanth and four other players implicated in the spot-fixing case by a disciplinary committee of the BCCI, comprising N. Srinivasan,   and Niranjan Shah. As per the records, the order was sent to Sreesanth on October 3, 2013, and delivered to him on October 7, 2013. It states 'in view of the allegations of match-fixing and non-reporting of offences, he is banned from playing or representing any team for life. He shall during this period, not be entitled to be associated with any activities of the BCCI or its affiliates',” said George.
 
 
 
  said that he came to know of the 2013 ban order sent by the BCCI only on Wednesday. “Now I understand that the ban order was sent to the office of my former coach Sivakumar and it was somehow misplaced from there and it didn’t reach me. No one told me about it also since then. But wasn’t it KCA’s responsibly to pursue if it was not received in all these years? Even now it took my attempts to bring out the truth about that order. Now I’m taking BCCI to court 150% ,” Sreesanth told TOI.
 
 
