NEW DELHI: After intra-party voices started questioning the validity of blaming the series of poll setbacks solely on the electronic voting machines, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind   on Saturday conceded that “mistakes“ had been made and there was a need to “go back to the drawing board“.

 This significant shift came after consistently holding “tampered EVMs“ at fault for the unexpectedly dismal electoral returns in Punjab in March and the municipal polls in Delhi. In the fight for the three municipal elections recently, AAP finished a distant second to BJP, which scored a third back-to-back win in the civic bodies.
 
 On Twitter on Saturday, Kerjiwal wrote, “In last two days I spoke to many volunteers and voters. The reality is obvious. Yes we made mistakes, but we will introspect and course correct. Time to go back to the drawing board.“ The AAP convener also stated, “To not evolve would be silly. We owe that to voters and volunteers. We owe that to ourselves. Need is action and not excuses.“
 
 Though the CM did not broach the subject of EVMs on Saturday, Delhi deputy CM Sisodia told TOI that Kejriwal's message should not be interpreted as a sign that the party was giving up the issue. “That is a separate fight which will continue,“ Sisodia said. Kejriwal's exhortation to the party to get back to hard work after the poll failures in Punjab, Goa and in its home base of Delhi came after several leaders, including Kumar Vishwas, Bhagwant Mann and Gurpreet Ghuggi, asserted that blaming “rigged EVMs“ alone would not explain the setbacks. On Friday, Vishwas, a member of AAP's political affairs committee, was emphatic that “the people of Delhi did not vote for AAP“ in the municipal elections.
 
 Some leaders also suggested that Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia should pay attention to governance and leave the party's political expansion to others, perhaps an indication of the feeling within the party ranks that decision-making should be a shared activity. Kejriwal's message ended with advice for his party functionaries and volunteers. “It's time to get back to work. And even if we slip from time to time, the key is to find the reserves, to hold and pull ourselves up.The people deserve nothing less. The only thing constant is change,“ he said. Saturday's concession of “mistakes“ seemed to recall what Kejriwal said after being sworn in as chief minister at the Ramlila Maidan in Febru ary 2015. Promising to keep national ambitions in check after the Lok Sabha results in Delhi indicated the people's disapproval at a time when the capi tal's people had “ordered us to serve them“, Kejriwal had added, “We will have to constantly introspect...If arrogance creeps in, we will not be able to fulfil our mission.“
 
 Kapil Mishra, Delhi minister and AAP MLA from Karawal Nagar, too had said after the municipal polls that there was a need to introspect on why the events had unfolded as they did and it was not proper to blame EVMs alone. Bhagwant Mann, MP of Sangrur in Punjab, had prescribed a similar path, saying, “Instead of finding faults with EVMs it is time to start finding faults in the party .“
 
 Meanwhile, many MLAs and volunteers have met Kejriwal and given their views in the past few days. According to news reports, Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti and other legislators contended that Kejriwal and Sisodia should give their undivided attention to running Delhi government, while the charge of the party expansion could be handed over to Kumar Vishwas.
 
