GORAKHPUR: A little "mistake" has cost 90-year-old   dear. In the evening of his life, he is been separated from his biggest support- his 80-year-old wife Zaib-un-Nisa. 

 It was in a fit of rage back in 2013 that Habib uttered the dreaded word 'talaq' three times and divorced his wife. Now, depressed and alone, he regrets his act. 
 
 The condition of his wife is worse. She lives under extreme poverty with the couple's younger son in Nakha, another part of  .
 
 The couple has four sons and two daughters. Habib lives with one son in Ghazi Rauza.
 
 The only way they can reunite is too difficult a step for them, the couple says. 
 
 "We had 11 children; six are alive now. Even my granddaughters are married. I have faced all ups and downs with my husband and dedicatedly worked for the family. But when I needed my husband most, in my old age, I have been separated from him. I don't understand what was my fault. I urge the government to help me as I am facing ill health and my son is not earning well," says Ziab-un-Nisa.
 
 The old woman is against   and wants the government to abolish it. "I am not literate and I don't understand much but I don't want any other woman to face the situation I am in," she says. 
 
 "I was sad and depressed because of my health that unfortunate day. When I gave talaq to my wife, I was not in my right mind. However, now nothing can be done. Everything is over," Habib said.
 
 After realising his mistake, Habib went to   Azhari. The mufti told them that there was only one way out. "Under the Islamic law (Sharia), once a man has said talaq three times to his wife, the couple can't live together as husband and wife. If they want to live together again, they have to go for Halala.
 
 Under Halala, the wife has to marry another man and consummate that marriage. If the second husband gives her talaq with his will, the woman can marry her first husband. Zaib-un-Nisa is very old and Halala is not possible in such old age," Mufti Akhtar Hussain said.
 
 Their son Wasim Shah says he wishes that his parents live together again. 
 
 "Four years ago, my father had a paralysis attack and my mother started looking after him. Under extreme depression, one day, my father asked my mother to bring a coffin cloth for him but she refused. They had a tiff and after that my father said 'talaq' three times in anger," Wasim says.
 
