Generally, when there are two male or female leads, there seems to be a certain amount of insecurity that each feels. But for   that wasn’t a concern, since she knew that she would stand out in  , thanks to her role. The actress tells us more…

 
 
 Manju sir (Swaraj, the director) met me while I was dubbing for my debut film, Ganapa. He liked my performance in that film and I was impressed when he narrated the story of Pataki. I play a hearing and visually-impaired girl named Manvitha, who is vital to the story. I was impressed with the character and I knew that it gave me a chance to give a good performance. Also, I didn’t want to let go of the chance to work with a big producer like   and a star like Ganesh.
 
 
 
 I had a lot of fun while shooting for this film. Manju sir is my favourite director and I really liked his work in  . I knew that, like that film, he would work his magic in this film as well, and was confident that he will showcase my character well. Ganesh sir was very helpful and used to explain things to me like he would to a small child. SV Babu uncle also supported me a lot. I thoroughly enjoyed working on this film.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I am an artiste and have never thought about working with a star or not working with another heroine. I just want to show the world that I am a good artiste. And I have got a chance to show off my acting prowess in this film. Heroines are usually seen supporting the male lead and shaking a leg to songs, which is not a bad thing, but I got to do so much more in this film. I might never again get a chance to play a character with so many shades again.
 
 
 
 Manju sir gave me one month to prepare for my role. I told him that it wasn’t required, so he had a tutor on the set — a hearing and visually-impaired woman — who explained the nuances to me very well. I used to practice for just 30 minutes before each shot with my tutor and then perform. Manju sir, who is very observant, also helped a lot by showing me exactly how to enact.
 
 
 
 I got very involved during the shoot and we were so much in character that it felt like Ganesh sir was an actual cop and not just acting like one, and I, a little girl. 
 
