WEST GODAVARI: Under the orders of chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, the Crime Investigation Department (CID) of AP on Sunday took over the investigation of the Rs 569 crore   scam unearthed by   police. 

 The CID took over the investigation amid indications that the case may be handed over to the CBI. “Considering the seriousness and gravity of the issue where foreign transactions are involved, the state government is also contemplating transferring the case to the CBI,” director general of police N Sambasiva Rao said. According to officials, Naidu directed the DGP to act tough against economic offenders. 
 
 On Sunday, the police arrested two persons linked to the racket from   village in West Godavari district. Two brothers Achanta Rajesh (25) and A Harish (23) were functioning as directors to shell companies which helped in laundering money for one of the main accused Vaddi Mahesh. Police sources said  , the father of the two, owned a hotel in Taravali village which was suffering losses. 
 
 Mahesh, a good friend of Jai Krishna’s family, took Rajesh and Harish with him to Vizag and Kolkata and introduced him to his father Vaddi Srinivasa Rao and the hawala channels. A total sum of Rs 680 crore was received by hawala operators in several dubious bank accounts in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, and Kolkata. Of the sum, Rs 569 crore was sent out of the country using fake documents. The DGP is likely to convene a high-level meeting tomorrow to review the case.
 
 Meanwhile, both the income tax department and Enforcement Directorate are said to have taken up a probe simultaneously. Vizag police arrested nine persons related to the case including two chartered accountants from Kolkata. 
 
 The case came to the forefront when income tax officials lodged a complaint with Vizag city police on Friday against nine people for establishing 12 companies by creating false and forged documents. The police registered cases under sections 181/2017 U/s 420, 120(b), 465, 468, 471 r/w 34 of IPC. MVN Seshu Bhavannarayana, income tax officer, office of joint director of income tax, unit 3, MVP Colony, reported that the nine accused including Vaddi Mahesh, a resident of Kolkata and native of Srikakulam, his father   and others Achanta Harish, Achanta Rajesh, Prasanta Kumar Roy Barman, Praveen Kumar Jha, Ayush Goel, Vineet Goenka and Vikar Gupta set up12 fake companies in Vizag and Kolkata. They also opened 30 bank accounts in the names of the fake companies at various places.
 
 Upon inquiry by the income tax department, preliminary investigation revealed that main accused Mahesh floated many property concerns, partnership firms in the names of his employees to facilitate transfer of funds and reporting turnovers. The analysis of the bank accounts pertaining to the accused indicated total inward domestic remittance to a tune of Rs 680.94 crore. Of the amount, Rs 569.93 crore was remitted to five foreign companies in China, Singapore and Hong Kong fraudulently towards purchase of customised software by using the forged documents. But no software was ever imported from the said companies. The accused cheated the Government of India on the basis of bogus documents. 
 
