Coimbatore is gearing up for a unique event this weekend- a programme where people can rent an   farm, learn zero -budget   from experts. Participants will be taught about crop selection, sowing seeds, preparing organic manure, pest repellents, de-weeding and watering techniques at this programme held at Kanuvai.

 Talking about the initiative, Vishnu Vardhan, who is in charge of the programme, tells CT, “This is a first-of-its-kind programme in Coimbatore. We have been dealing with around 800 odd organic farmers across Tamil Nadu and a number of our customers have expressed interest in learning organic farming apart from procuring organic produce. This programme would provide them some hands-on experience, directly from farmers. Participants can take up a farm for rent for a span of a month, 3 or 6. They will be trained in   technologies that will enable them to use all produce and waste from their farm and reuse it as manure and fertilizers. The idea is to bridge the gap between urban and rural people. After harvesting, they can sell the produce at a premium price.”
 
 There is a growing interest in organic farming in Coimbatore and veteran farmer M Krishnamurthy from Pannimadai, in the outskirts of the city, completely agrees with it. “My family has been farming for generations and I have been sharing my experiences with all those expressing interest in farming. A lot of people have been approaching me these days from different parts of the state, especially city folk.”
 
 But, he maintains that farming can be quite a challenge in times of water scarcity. “At a time when the entire state is hit by water shortage, it is advisable for farmers to restrict their farming to a certain portion of their land. For instance, if you have a five-acre land, use only 2.5 acres for farming. This way you can deal with water shortage and not fear for the loss of crops. If you have coconut trees in your farm, use the coir fibre across the farm. This will reduce evaporation to an extent. Every remnant of coconut tree can be put to good use.” V Venugopal, who runs a nursery on Vilankurichi Road, seconds him. “When you plant a sapling, always mix coir pith fibre along with the soil. This will help in water retention. Mulching (a layer of organic waste like grass, straw, wood chips and leaves on soil) can also control evaporation to a great extent.”
 
