DEHRADUN: The 5.8 magnitude   that rattled Uttarakhand on Monday night sending tremors across north India, including Delhi and its adjoining areas, did not cause severe damage because its hypocentre or focus, the exact point where a quake begins, was almost 33 kilometres below the ground, said experts.
 
  Met officials said that the quake, epicentered 33 km below the ground in Pipalkoti near   and which lasted for a little more than 20 seconds could have been devastating otherwise. Two persons suffered minor injuries in Kalimath area of Rudraprayag, after bricks from their temporary shelter fell on them.
  
  “The quake on Monday night did not cause much devastation because its focal depth was 33 km below the earth’s crust. In earthquakes such as this one, tremors are widely felt,” said Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of disaster mitigation and management centre (DMMC).
  
  A slight intensity aftershock of 3.6 magnitude, with its epicentre in Pipalkoti, once again rocked Rudraprayag at 1.51 am, three hours after the Monday night quake. According to scientists at the   (WIHG), there were a total of 10 aftershocks of approx 2-3 magnitude following the quake.
  
  The two injured in Kalimath were identified as Sita Devi, 45, and 18-year-old Deepak Singh. “Police and medical team reached the houses of the injured people and provided treatment to them. They suffered minor injuries and are doing fine now,” said Ashish Semwal, district disaster management officer of Rudraprayag. Though there were no reports of severe damage to property, some house in Ukhimath and other places in Rudraprayag had developed cracks, sources said.
  
  According to Amit Negi, secretary of disaster management department, said, “No major loss to property has been reported from Rudraprayag or any other part of the state. The   (SDRF) and teams of disaster management have been kept on high alert.” He also informed that two teams of   were rushed to Rudraprayag as a precautionary measure.
  
  Panicked residents, in the meanwhile, ran out of their houses and were seen hanging outside in anticipation of aftershocks. “We ran out of our house when the quake struck and stayed outside for more than an hour,” said Rajendra Bisht, a resident of Chakrata Road in Dehradun.
  
  Uttarakhand and the northern Himalayan region have witnessed several high and medium intensity tremors in the recent past. The state falls in high seismic activity area – zone 4 and 5. A K Gupta, director of WIHG, also warned devastating impact of high-rise buildings and big dams in the state in the advent of a major quake.
  
  Late into Monday night, chief minister Harish Rawat reached the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) at the secretariat building to take stock of the situation. Present at the SEOC was also Amit Negi and additional secretary C Ravishankar.
