PUNE: The family members of software engineer   (23), who was murdered last month in  , have confessed to feeling insecure and scared about coming to Pune to find out the latest developments in the case.

 Eleven days after Das, of Sarsuna in Kolkata, was brutally murdered a few metres from her office near the KNB Chowk in Talawade, the family claimed they have not yet received any phone calls from the Pune police about developments in investigation.
 
 “We are in a no-man’s land at present. There is a sense of insecurity whenever we think of going to Pune again to try to pursue the case. We have read news reports that the person who had been detained by the police has been let off. We are sure   must have told the police about the person. With some reports stating that hired killers might have been used for the murder, our security is in doubt in Pune. Though the police have always assured us of our safety, we are not convinced,” Antara’s uncle   told TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 He said they feared that they would get attacked as the police have not yet come to any kind of conclusion. 
 
 The family said that Antara, who was tired and hassled by Santosh’s constant pestering and stalking, had told him that her marriage had been fixed and was slated to take place on January 22. 
 
 Though it was a cousin’s wedding, she had lied to Santosh in an attempt to get rid of his harassment, the uncle said. 
 
 “After the loss of his daughter, her father and other family members just want justice. However, the police are not disclosing anything at this moment. There were some thoughts that some of us should go to Pune again to check, but it is unlikely. Fear has gripped the family and as we have another daughter, we don’t want to take any chances. If the police calls us, we will have to go, but we will request for proper security and safety,” Das said.
 
 A police officer at the Town police station in Ara, from where Santosh hails, said they had not yet been contacted by the Pune police.
 
 “Police are yet to contact us. If they ask for help and assistance, we will do the needful. The family of Santosh lives in the   under the police station area,” the officer said.
 
 
