MYSURU/ CHAMARAJANAGAR: Normal life was affected in   town on Monday as almost all business establishments, banks, schools and colleges showed solidarity with the members of   and Kannada and pro-Hindu activists who had called for a bandh. They were protesting against Saturday’s fire that destroyed the century-year-old ‘ratha’ (chariot).

 Bandh was partial and no untoward incident was reported during the protest, claimed Chamarajanagar district police. SP   told TOI that the bandh was partial and peaceful. Meanwhile, investigation is under way to identify the miscreants who had set fire to the chariot late in the night. 
 
 Tension prevailed in the town late on Saturday following the incident in the premises of the Sri Chamarajeshwara Swamy Temple. The wooden chariot, that was covered with coconut fronds, caught fire quickly.
 
 As merchants’ association, hoteliers and private bus owners had extended their support, almost all shops were closed and private buses were off the roads. Even cinema halls and petrol stations were shut, while schools and colleges remained closed for the day. Vendors at vegetable market faced the heat as there were no buyers. However, government offices, hospitals, medical stores and shops near KSRTC bus stand functioned normally. 
 
 The protesters took out a rally in the town, demanding that the authorities concerned arrest the miscreants and take necessary measures to repair the damaged chariot before Ashadha month when rathothsava is celebrated.
 
 ‘Rathothsava may be cancelled’ 
 
 If sources are to be believed, this year’s Sri Chamarajeshwara Swamy Rathothsava in Chamarajanagara town may be cancelled as the chariot, which is more than a century-old, is damaged. Usually, burnt materials/ articles are not used for religious purposes. Accordingly, the temple authorities are worried about its usage ahead of the Rathothsava scheduled for ‘Ashadha masa.’
 
 The famous rathothsava is celebrated in Ashadha which usually falls in July. It is the only festival held during Ashadha time in the state. Thousands of devotees from across Karnataka take part in the festival. It is special for new couples who throw a pair of bananas at the chariot, as they believe doing so would bring them fortune and blessings. 
 
 Sources claimed that the chariot, about 175 years old, is in bad condition. Perhaps this was one of the reasons for the miscreants to set it on fire as the authorities concerned were delaying in repairing the chariot. It would take more than a year to make a similar chariot.
 
