AHMEDABAD: When Ahmedabad zonal office of Narcotics Control Bureau ( ) searched residence of a 31-year old woman in Ghatlodia on January 22, they found a package of   ( ) concealed in a flower pot. It was a sure-shot case under NDPS as the information they had received about the possession of contraband was indeed true.

 "However, something was amiss. We decided to first check the facts as the woman had no idea about what the black substance was, and we believed her. The subsequent investigation revealed that her jilted lover had planted 580 grams of charas having market value of Rs 3.5 lakh to implicate her in a drug case. The man, identified as Dinesh Prajapati, is arrested for the plant on January 25," said Hari Om Gandhi, zonal director, NCB.
 
 It was not a simple case of drug seizure for the NCB as the onion-like layers came off over a period of one week and what emerged was plot for a Bollywood revenge saga.
 
 As per NCB officials, a man, identifying himself as Raj Kothari approached the agency earlier in January and told the officials that he has information on a woman running a drug racket. He promised them to give a definite input once he gets information. Kothari informed the officials on January 22 and told them that the woman's residence in Ghatlodia has charas concealed.
 
 "When the team reached at her home the same day, she was astonished and provided full support to the team. The search fetched the contraband concealed in a flower pot. The woman along with a tenant of the same premises were questioned thoroughly but they claimed innocence," said an official.
 
 Repeated questioning did not fetch anything. But one question led the investigators to the right direction. The woman recalled hosting a man named Dinesh for four to five days in the month.
 
 "When she showed us the photograph of said Dinesh, it was our turn to get surprised. It was the same man posing as Raj Kothari and providing us the inputs. We questioned her further about Dinesh when we got to know that the woman, a divorcee, had a brief relationship with him earlier but as Dinesh was married, it did not go further," said an official.
 
 Dinesh, a resident of Satyanarayan Society on Vejalpur Road and son of a textile unit owner, did not take the denial lightly. He allegedly started harassing her after which she was forced to file a complaint against her with Sola police station. NCB verified the fact after which the officials summoned Dinesh on January 24. He requested that he was not feeling well and would come the next day.
 
 "He was questioned thoroughly when he confessed that due to the woman's denial, he wanted to implicate her in serious drug case where sentence is longer. He tried to procure hashish from a friend but after he declined, he got it from a contact and approached the woman recently on pretext of reconciliation. He hid the contraband and then approached NCB to inform about the same," said an NCB official. adding that one of Dinesh's friends corroborated the version.
 
 Gandhi said that Dinesh has been arrested on the charges of conspiracy, maliciously giving false information and procuring drugs. "Questioning is on to ascertain source of the contraband and whether more persons are involved," he said.
 
