BHOPAL: RSS chief   will address the Virat   in Betul, where more than two lakh participants have been invited as a part of social harmony campaign on February 8. 

 The Hindu Sammelan has been planned as an initiative to propagate the message of 'samrasta' (social harmony) and equality among common masses, which will also focus on the issues of conversions in tribal areas and Naxalism spreading across the borders of the districts covering   and Maharashtra, though behind the curtains. Apart from RSS chief, former union minister   will also address the gathering.
 
 The   is running a nationwide campaign to promote what it calls 'social harmony' among Hindus, apparently with an eye to win over Dalits and tribals who are key to BJP's hopes of wresting power in five states, including  , which are going to polls in the coming months. The convention, however, will be a combination of social values, healthy thoughts and self-enlightenment with discussions on water conservation and afforestation, said a senior RSS functionary.
 
 "The Hindu Sammelan is a follow-up of Sangh Parivar's Samrasta Abhiyan (social harmony campaign), which was conceptualised in ideological conclave during Ujjain Simhastha in April-May 2016. RSS has always promoted equality and social harmony among masses and the need of hour suggests that it should be strengthened," said programme convener Mohan Nagar. He said Sangh had regularly organised Hindu conventions like in Jhabua in 2002 and Maheshwar in 2015, mainly to propagate harmony among various communities. This is to help backward sections of the society to join other communities. A series of events for poor, Dalits, tribals, youths and women were also organised before the conventions.
 
 Sources said the convention is a part of the BJP agenda to bring tribals and Dalits to the mainstream campaign. The RSS workers have involved heads of various communities in the Hindu Sammelan to give them an insight of their social equality agenda. The community leaders will be given responsibility for arranging events and meals for two lakh participants to involve them with other communities.
 
 
