JAMSHEDPUR: The district administration has rolled out measures to install an additional of 50 CCTVs and temporary control rooms at zonal levels in five places in addition to the parent control room that is in operation at the crime control room (CCR), with the commencement of the inauguration of puja pandals from Saturday.

 Police and civil administration authorities, which include officials of   Notified Area Committee, Mango Notified Area Committee and Jugsalai municipality, have identified new locations where small   cameras will be installed.
 
 A city police officer said, “Fringe locations of the industrial town such as Pursudih, Govindpur, Birsanagar, Paridih and Bagbera, among other places where Durga Puja pandals draw huge crowds have been identified as areas where digital vigilance gadgets will be installed.
 
 “The urban area of the city is well covered by CCTV networks and now it is tine to focus on the outer areas and accordingly a plan will be drawn up,” a district administration official said.
 
 Presently, 80 CCTVs are installed on street light poles in marketplaces, main thoroughfares, river over-bridges and at crowded roundabouts in Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Telco, Kadma and elsewhere.
 
 Law enforcing agencies will monitor the movement of the crowd including pedestrians and vehicular traffic from various CCRs. After installation, the additional CCTVs will also function in a similar way. “With regard to security, the police jointly with the civil administration officials is working on all necessary measures to ensure peaceful puja celebrations. I appeal to the citizens to co-operate with the district administration in this regard,” senior superintendent of police Anoop T Mathew, said.
 
 Police officials have also asked the city’s puja samities to make sure that all the pandal hoppers’ activities are recorded in the CCTVs. “Regardless of the size of crowd arriving at the pandal, instructions have been issued to all the authorised puja samities to equip pandals with close circuit camera as it is mandatory,” Arun Kumar Singh, a functionary of  , said. 
 
