Nagpur: The director of Board of Examinations and Evaluations at Nagpur University, Neeraj Khaty, has reportedly expressed his concerns over the vice-chancellor’s controversial decision to hand over the exam section charge to pro vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole.

 Though VC SP Kane denied that there was any such friction among the university top brass, he reiterated that the pro-VC is the boss and all other officers his subordinates.
 
 Sources said Khaty is disappointed since the newly introduced University Act accords complete charge of the exam to the director, but the VC’s move has rendered him toothless. Khaty refused to be quoted on the issue.
 
 Even as Khaty is sulking over not being able to function independently, Kane reiterated that the new Act wrests special powers with the VC who can assign any duty to anyone in the university.
 
 Last month, Khaty had submitted his concerns and the VC had forwarded a notesheet over the issue to registrar Puran Meshram, who is currently in the US for an international conference. In Meshram’s absence, Khaty has been holding the additional charge of registrar.
 
 “Thus, the issue is likely to stretch further as Khaty will keep the notesheet pending over conflict of interest,” a source said.
 
 On April 18, TOI had reported how the VC violated the Act in restoring the exam section charge to Yeole.
 
 On Tuesday, Kane said, “Pro vice-chancellor is the boss. What are the powers of the director? He has to work under the VC. When the officers are under the VC and pro-VC, they are their subordinates.”
 
 The VC also contradicted himself while trying to justify his move. “In the old Act, the pro-VC had no specific role assigned. In the new Act, there are lots of power and duties assigned.”
 
 When pointed out that the Act has indeed assigned several powers and duties to the pro-VC except exam work, Kane attributed the move to the last clause under role of director in the Act.
 
 “He has conveniently ignored the word ‘other’ in the clause, ” the source said. The clause clearly states ‘exercise such other powers and perform such other duties assigned by the VC and pro-VC’. It doesn’t say that the prescribed role can be stripped,” he added.
 
 What the Act says
 
 Last clause in role of director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation: Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as prescribed by or under this Act or assigned to him by the VC or Pro-VC from time to time.
 
 * As per the Act, the director will work directly under the VC (not ProVC)
 
 Kane’s contention
 
 *The VC has special powers to assign any duty to anyone
 
 * The ProVC too is powerful and can call for any file from any section
 
 * Even the director is his subordinates
 
 
