CHENNAI: Almost nine years after it was spotted, the rare Cinereous vulture made a reap pearence in the   on Monday . Commonly found in the snow covered regions of Central Asia and the Himalayas, the vulture's visit is an abberation, say conservationsists.

 Vulture conservationist   located the bird while working in the Moyar region, and confirmed it with  , who was with him.
 
 Since these vultures are not migratory in nature, experts say the Cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus) found in the Nilgiris is a juvenile bird. “Juvenile birds tend to wander out of their normal distribution range. This is a mountain bird and a winter migrant to north India when it gets too cold in central Asia.“ said  , deputy director of the Bombay Natural History Society Vulture Conservation Breeding Programme.
 
 “Generally, the juvenile birds within the first two years of their flying, start long journeys. This one has come from high altitude Himalayan forests. They are capable of covering even 500km a day, as they just glide in the sky without straining their wings much,“ said Bharathidasan, adding that these vultures had a special type of haemoglobin in the blood which allows them to absorb more oxygen when flying at greater heights, he said.
 
 One of the largest birds of prey in the world, the scavenger bird has been categorised under the near threatened status. They build their nests in the Himalayan forests, especial ly coniferous trees, which are found at an altitude of 10,000 feet and above. While sighting a bird from Himalayan region in the southern part of the country is exciting for Bharathidasan, Venkatachalam says the deviation to the south does happen occasionally .
 
 When they conducted a vulture census in the Nilgiris last year, they recorded the presence of a Himalayan Griffon vulture.
 
 “We conservationists are always thrilled whenever a rare bird sighting is recorded,“ said Bharathidasan, cofounder of Arulagam, an NGO working towards the conservation of fauna and flora in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Conservationists feel the forest department should conduct a vulture census in the Nilgiris north, south and Mudumalai Tiger reserve areas this year as well.These areas are the only places in the state where one can see vultures. Oriental white backed, Indian long-billed, Redheaded and Egyptian vultures are the four species of vultures that are found in the south.
 
 “Conducting census will help in Cinereous vul understanding their numbers in the wild. This in turn will help in formulating an action plan to protect the species, which is on the verge of extinction,“ said Bharathidasan.
 
