New Delhi: Over the years, tackling surface parking woes has proved a bigger challenge for the capital. Several proposals were announced but hardly anything has been done on the ground.

 Three municipal   together own 263 parking sites across the capital. Many of them are being run by unauthorised persons, or the parking  , incurring heavy losses to the exchequers of the civic bodies. Senior officials claim that in the absence of manpower to monitor these spaces, corporations are   almost 50% of their   annually.
 
 In the north civic body, the concept of contractors is almost non-existent. Of the 98 sites, 46 sites are running for “free” because the corporation has failed to find contractors. The situation is similar in the areas under the east corporation.
 
 Senior officials from the north civic body said, “We invited contractors but none of them turned up. The corporation is not equipped to handle these parking sites on their own due to lack of manpower.”
 
 The north corporation generates around Rs 13 crore annually from parking while the east and the south corporations earn Rs 8 crore and Rs 50 crore, respectively. Sources, however, claim this is not even half of what they can actually generate if they streamline their systems and launch a major crackdown on the parking mafia.
 
 In 2012, the three corporations had announced the use of handheld devices to issue receipts and CCTV surveillance over parking sites but to date, these policies are still on paper.
 
 “The department lacks staff to monitor all the parking sites. But we do launch crackdown on illegal operations and we have blacklisted many contractors for violating the norms. We are also trying to appoint a single contractor for all the sites to avoid any discrepancy in the revenue collection,” said a senior official from the south corporation.
 
 Officials from the east civic body claimed they had only a few prime parking locations, unlike the south and the north bodies. “This affects our revenue generation. However, we are trying to remove encroachments from major roads and we will add a few more parking sites soon,” said a senior official.
 
 Despite tall claims, the civic body has failed to clear illegal parking sites being run on pavements and colony lanes. 
 
 Even the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which has 116 surface parking sites and four multilevel ones, has been facing major revenue loss as well. Prime areas like Khan Market, Connaught Place and Gole Market are in a bad shape.
 
 New Delhi Municipal Council has outsourced its parking sites to DIMTS and has been facing losses up to Rs 4 crore annually. While the council hasn’t cancelled its tender, NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said an internal committee was formed to look into the matter and the council would take action accordingly.
 
 All the surface and multilevel parking sites in NDMC areas are fully automated. The council is also planning to introduce a smart parking management system, which will enable users to book a parking lot through mobile application.
 
 “We have floated the tender and will initiate the work soon,” added Kumar.
 
 
