THANE:   seemed to be the clear beneficiary in the   exercise ahead of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) elections as nearly 10 of the 19 corporators who switched loyalties, managed to retain their respective seats from the party.

 The Sena benefited the maximum in the old and new belts of Thane city eating up nearly eight seats from its rivals. The party managed to gain foothold in new areas like the Balkum stretch and also retain its voters from the middle income enclaves along the LBS road and Eastern Express highway that had switched over to the Congress the last season.
 
 The switch of former standing committee member and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sanjay Bhoir, his wife Usha and father Devram to the Sena from the NCP helped the party gain in Balkum while Sena managed to add muscle to its seat tally in the old city part with induction of Minal Sankhe, Deepak Vetkar, Jaishri Phatak and Malathy Patil, too, who defected from the Congress.
 
 The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) that was on a hunting spree in the city for a prominent face to steer the party in the TMC elections managed to bait seven seats in the city taking its tally from the erstwhile eight to a massive 23 in the present polls. 
 
 The constant monitoring of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and its local unit comprising MLA Sanjay Kelkar, minister Ravindra Chavan and MP Kapil Patil managed to induct Narayan Pawar, Bharat Chavan and Manohar Dumbre who secured a thumping victory for the party in their bastions.
 
 “The party had a minimal presence in the TMC house last year with just eight seats and wanted prominent names to help it gain muscle in the corporation. With the party apparently seeming a strong contender to the mayor’s post, many jumped the bandwagon and joined the party with promises of better prospects,” observed a political analyst.
 
 The NCP gained majorly in the fringe areas of Mumbra with the inclusion of the Kine couple – Rajan and Anita- that helped the party get two seats in the Agri-Koli dominated pockets of Mumbra.
 
 Political analysts said aspirants always look for better opportunities before they switch over parties ahead of the polls and this is no new trend. 
 
 “Every candidate wants to retain their respective fiefdom and in changing scenarios often opt for those parties that can ensure them a comfortable victory,” said a political analyst.
 
 
