THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The nine-member syndicate subcommittee of the  , which was set up to look into the grievances of the   students, has found that most of the allegations raised by them against the college management were true.

 The committee, which concluded the fact-finding exercise after holding hearings with students, parents and management representatives will submit its report in the special syndicate meeting of the university, scheduled to be held on Saturday . The syndicate is expected to take a final call on the demand for action against the academy management at the meeting.
 
 According to sources, the syndicate sub-committee has come to a conclusion that the students' complaints pertaining to mental harassment by the college management and anomalies in the allocation of internal marks were true. The committee has also found evidences to establish the allega tions of caste discrimination.The committee has also come across enough proofs to substantiate the allegations that many parents had to suffer harassment by the academy management, especially , college principal  .
 
 Though the CPI and the   nominees in the syndicate sub-committee wanted to look into the allegations that the college management misused the government land leased out to it, the other members in the syndicate-all CPM nomineesdid not accept the suggestion. The CPI and the Congress nominees had also wanted the sub-committee to make specific recommendations to the syndicate on the issue.
 
 As of now, the committee has only prepared a fact-finding report and there were no specific recommendations towards resolving the ongoing joint strike by student unions in the academy . Since there were no provisions in the university Act that gives the syndicate the power to demand the removal of the principal of the private college, the harshest decision the syndicate may recommend will be cancellation of affiliation to the college from the next academic year.Such a recommendation may force the management to change its approach towards the striking students and their demand for resignation of the principal.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP national executive member and former party president   has extended his 48-hour hunger strike in front of the academy to an indefinite one.
 
