NEW DELHI: China is again using the media it runs as a proxy to issue threats - its latest ones are calls to Beijing to answer India's "blows with blows" and to interfere in "India's turbulent northern state (which) borders China".
 
 That 
  was made patently clear over the last week. That it's livid was made even clearer in two editorials today in state-run media, China Daily and Global Times.
 
 "If New Delhi chooses to play dirty, however, Beijing should not hesitate to answer blows with blows," said a China Daily edit, about the Dalai Lama's visit. 
 
 The Global Times edit threatened Beijing's interference in Kashmir, without naming the border state.
 
 "With a GDP several times higher than that of India, military capabilities that can reach the Indian Ocean and having good relations with India's peripheral nations, coupled with the fact that India's turbulent northern state borders China, if China engages in a geopolitical game with India, will Beijing lose to New Delhi?" the edit threatened. To simplify the confusing language, what it meant was it could interfere in Kashmir and other border states if it so wished.
 
 It appears what has irked Beijing the most are Union minister 
  and the fact that he accompanied the Dalai Lama to Arunachal.
 
 "China should not object to the Dalai Lama's visit and interfere in India's internal affairs," Rijiju said yesterday.
 
 China Daily today conveyed Beijing's enormous displeasure over that comment.
 
 "Rijiju might think himself cute in borrowing a line from Beijing's diplomatic representations, but he has ignored the fundamental distinction here: Like Taiwan and any other part of China,   is a part of Chinese territory no matter whether New Delhi agrees or not," China Daily's edit said.
 
 For more proof Beijing is irked with Rijiju, here's the Global Times, a paper run by China's Communist Party, today: 
 
 "The Dalai Lama has been to the disputed region before, but what makes this trip different is that he is received and accompanied by India's Junior Home Minister Kiren Rijiju," Global Times said. 
 
 To Rijiju's assertion that southern Tibet is "an inseparable part of India", China Daily reached back into history to British colonial times.
 
 Southern Tibet, it said, "was stolen from China by his country's former colonial master taking advantage of China's internal strife." 
 
 Yesterday, China's foreign ministry accused India of "losing its dignity" by "playing around with" the Dalai Lama.
 
 In one of the edits today, the state-run media implied that the monk's visit is being used as a tit-for-tat against Beijing, which refused to support India's membership to the Nuclear Suppliers Group, and 
  Masood Azhar.
 
 "The Dalai's visit to Arunachal Pradesh this time is seen as New Delhi using the monk as a diplomatic tool to put pressure on China. But this is a clumsy and rude move. The Dalai is a highly politicized symbol in China's diplomacy," Global Times said.
 
 
