NAGPUR: In a world dominated with videos, where the younger generation hardly knows the  , the members of Nagpur for Kids (NFK) Club got a   of the old, yet the most accessible and powerful form of  . 94.3 My FM organized an exclusive visit for   to its studio at Sadar on Monday.

 The visit aimed to create awareness among children about the day-to-day functioning and work ethics of a radio station. 
 
 The radio station’s radio jockeys (RJs) Rajan and Neel began the visit with a discussion on radio stations and asked children what they knew about it. However, the children knew only about RJs and some popular radio advertisements from the past.
 
 Discussing the reach of the radio, RJ Rajan said that a radio station has a very wide penetration, irrespective of what people believed. 
 
 “The functioning of a radio station is divided into two departments, sales and programming. Both the departments contribute equally to the operation of a station,” he said.
 
 Later, children learnt about different profiles like copywriters, producers and programmers and their work. 
 
 The RJs also demonstrated how content is produced. Children also learnt the intricate details about production of jingles. 
 
 “Radio is also called infotainment media. Though we are not allowed to broadcast news, we present it in a subtle way which is humorous and also hits the heart,” RJ Neel said.
 
 Last but not the least, the RJs discussed different career opportunities in radio broadcasting and skill set required for the same. RJ Rajan also live streamed the video of the discussion on Facebook. 
 
 “We focus on the imagination of our listeners. Content production is aimed to touch the hearts and bind the listeners to the radio. The process is called theatre of mind,” RJ Neel said. 
 
 He further said, “A radio station’s work is full of hard work and must possess the art of making any subject interesting.” He also appealed to the parents to let their kids break the career stereotypes and explore life.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari).
 
