This monsoon, be careful when you walk under a tree on the street, or even if you have parked your car under the overhanging branches of the tree. For, the new danger is not from heavy rain, but how it’s causing trees and boughs to break and fall on people and vehicles! In a few disturbing incidents last week, two people were killed due to this. On July 22, TV anchor   succumbed to her injures when a coconut tree came crashing down on her during a morning walk in Chembur. On the same day, advocate Kishore Pawar who riding a two-wheeler, was killed in Naupada, Thane, after a tree fell on him. That’s not all. On July 23, two people were badly injured at Boiwada, Parel, when a tree fell on the taxi in which they were travelling. In another incident people narrowly escaped being hurt after a huge tree fell on parked vehicles near  . Is this just the rain or is there more to it, ask environmental experts and locals.

 
  
  
 Rain notwithstanding, there are other factors that could have weakened the trees in the city. Says tree expert professor Dr  , “Over 400-odd trees have been uprooted in the last one month in Mumbai city. These are grown- up trees we are cutting in the name of development and this can weaken the soil. Notice that the trees that fell recently, haven’t fallen in the park where they remain healthy, but mainly on the road because there is no percolation of water and air, which passes through to the roots due to the paver blocks. The roots are also affected due to the constant digging for electricity and water pipelines. Every year, trees are pruned in a lopsided way. Even for the metro project, a huge amount of trees have been cut. I have written to the municipal commissioner on how we need trees for casting shade, controlling pollution and beautification. There are so many footpaths where we should have concrete jalis instead of paver blocks; this exists in Delhi in the  .” He has a few suggestions as remedies. “We cannot stop development, but the trees ought to be transplanted in the right manner so that we can regain greenery. 
 
 
  
  
 A few points can be kept in mind when it comes to tree-falling danger. Says professor Ogle, “The need of the hour is for the   to assess the health of all trees properly. If a tree is losing centre of gravity, do not fall under it. Also, if they are not properly tied after transplanting, do not walk there as this could be dangerous. Citizens should be careful of these things,” he says.
 “For transplanting of trees too, there is a certain procedure that needs to be followed; it’s like a surgery. Are they doing that? Presently, branches above 20 feet also have been pruned. Up to 10 feet we understand, but why 20 feet? This can weaken the tree as it kills its vegetation and causes imbalance. Remember, hardly any tree dies out of old age, but other reasons. It’s time we opened our eyes,” he cautions. 
  Churchgate resident Nina Verma says the public apathy and poor tree pruning are culprits. “It’s really frightening looking at the recent deaths. The tree that killed that lady apparently had white ants. This recent ruthless cutting of trees for the metro is bound to have repercussions. We need a horticulturist as there may be several more problems. Also, people hired to prune trees are ill-trained and are cutting them in a lopsided manner that makes them lose balance.” 
 
 
  
  Environmentalist  , who stays in Chembur, says the risk is not so much from the green cover, but what we do around our trees. “What we do with soil and concretising is the key. Trees have an underground network below the soil. These are fungal networks with which they communicate and exchange nutrients and take care of each other, especially older trees. One tree which has a greater canopy actually takes care of a tree that gets more sun. More aged trees impart nutrients via the network of roots and fungal networks even in a large radius and over long distance. So, when you cut an old tree, you are affecting other trees under the ground as the young ones are depending on the older ones for nutrition. 100-year-old trees were cut for the upcoming metro and at   a 500-year-old tree was also cut. It was destroyed by a single act of thoughtlessness and lack of education. It’s time that those put in charge of handling trees should at least get educated in the biology of how trees work and update themselves on this. With the recent tree cutting instances, we do not know what has happened to the network as they have destroyed the symbiotic or co-dependent order of the trees,” he says.
 
 
 
