BENGALURU: In a setback to  , white goods maker BPL has moved to   and will sell exclusively on the platform, beginning Thursday. BPL, which was one of the most popular television brands in the 1990s, had stopped selling electronics in 2006, but reentered the market last year after finding the brand had high customer recall. 

  BPL constituted around 12% of Flipkart's large appliances sales, Ajit Nambiar, chairman and managing director of BPL told TOI . The company is estimated to have sold around Rs 175 crore worth of products on the platform. But Nambiar says he was not happy with the sales on Flipkart and believes it could have been much more, given the brand pull. 
 
 "With Amazon, it is a long term strategic technology partnership. Amazon will share information about what a customer is searching for and what a customer wants and that will add great value in bringing out new products or modifying a product. In the earlier era, customer feedback would have taken more than six months," Nambiar said. BPL will also launch washing machines, air conditioners and microwaves on Amazon.
 
 BPL last year had a turnover of around Rs 550 crore. Its largest business is that of medical device manufacturing and it contributed about Rs 350 crore. The company will have as many as 16 different products by leveraging the brand identity, Nambiar said. Some of the products are assembled in Baddi in  , while most of the items are imported.
 
 Both Amazon and Flipkart have been working with popular brands to sell on their platform exclusively. Several brands that sold only online when they launched in India, including  , Xiaomi and One Plus, chose one or the other platform.
 
 On the BPL deal, Manish Tiwary, vice president of category management in  , said: "It is everything but a deal made over money. We gave enough compelling reasons for BPL to work with us. We wanted BPL to be on our platform when we knew that they are reentering electronics. It is an iconic Indian brand with a special pull factor." 
 
 Large appliances as a category was launched on Amazon.in in October 2014.
 
  The category grew by 250% over the last 12 months, Tiwary said. Amazon is also helping schedule delivery and installation service through in-house teams.
 
 
