NEW DELHI: Barely hours after his death, JNU student Muthukrishnan (or Rajini Krish, as he styled himself), is being reduced to clashing political narratives, much like Rohith Vemula, who spoke about the value of a man being “reduced to one’s immediate identity and nearest possibility”.

 But Rajini Krish has left bits of his own story on his Facebook wall. He poses in dark glasses and jeans, smiling behind his Rajinikanth moustache, quoting lines from the movie Kabali. Through the glimpses of his life, relationships, fears and feelings, we get a glimpse of the social and institutional hurdles he faced.
 
 For all his solidarity with Ambedkarite politics, for all his sense of connection with Rohith and Radhika Vemula, Krish was not a   radical – as he repeats often, he was determined to “put his head down and study”. He wrote the MA exam three times, the Mphil exam twice. His English was not good enough, but “I tried because I didn’t want to give up…I always think hard work never fails”. Every year to visit JNU, he worked menial jobs, “saved money like an ant”, begged people for money, skipped meals on the train. “One interview, ‘one madam told me I am speaking “simple language’’.’ He was acutely conscious of being the only one from Salem to go to JNU, the only one from HCU to get selected to study modern Indian history.
 
 On his Facebook wall, and in his blog ‘Daliterature’, stray events on campus spark memories. A university lecture about ICS officers having to learn horse-riding takes him to a memory of himself scraping together money for food and travel, roaming Chennai in search of free IAS coaching.
 
 His English is broken, but his eloquence is unmissable. He had travelled a long way to enter JNU’s portals – from a father who worked as a security guard and a mother who cooked and sold cheap beef. Referring to himself as ‘Jeeva’s son’ or ‘Alamelu’s son’, he alludes to their struggle, his mother’s happiness when he gets first rank in class.
 
 In another post, he writes about a maths teacher who was hard on students who didn’t attend his private tuitions, how he threw a bunch of keys hard on his face. “Selvam sir did not give chances to the non-tuition students, but Jeeva’s son took his own chances, rolled many tyres, many changes, many chances, now he is here to bring more first-generation marginals, try to build chances for others.”
 
 He appeals to the UGC chairman to “give a chance to first-generation marginals, otherwise they will misunderstand that maths means enemy! Education means depression…university means discrimination! Please, change, please give a chance!”
 
 Recently, the UGC changed its policy for Mphil and PhD admissions, giving huge weightage to oral interviews. Earlier, JNU placed 70 per cent weight on a written test and 30 per cent on the interview, which a committee had recommended changing to an 85-15 per cent formula. The viva voce disadvantages Dalits, adivasis and OBCs by shifting the focus to English skills, confidence and presentation, protesting students and faculty pointed out. As Krish put it, even protesting this unfairness would be punished: “In the name of suspension, you are excluding, socially boycotting and rusticating the poor students… authentically you are creating inequality”.
 
 The personal stories are bittersweet. On a visit to Taj Mahal, he remembers his grandmother, Sellammal, who cleaned toilets at a local school, who raised six sons and perserved with a paltry pension. She gave her grandson money. She often cried by her husband’s grave, one she built herself. At the Taj, he pays Rs 10 as tax for being an adult, and thinks: ‘Who is feeding me? Who made me adult? Who is getting adult tax? This is how they built Taj Mahal.” He could not go back when she died, but at Taj Mahal, he thinks, “My Sellamal is my soul.”
 
 He writes with both wonder and irony about his first flight. He writes about aspiration and determination. He posts about people who made it against ferocious odds, from Shah Rukh Khan to Bill Gates, from Dhirubhai Ambani to Abraham Lincoln. Recently, he wrote a series of stories titled "maana" (a Tamil dialect word for beef, but also worth and equality) -- about the stigma and isolation of carrying a bag of maana on a bus. He ends with this stinging observation: “When equality is denied, everything is denied.”
 
 
