BATHINDA: Following the  , farmers in Bathinda district are also struggling to store their produce in the cold stores with owners demanding higher rates for stocking the  . The rate for storing one bag of produce (50kg) has gone up from Rs 80 to Rs 100 per bag in the past six months in Bathinda district. Now, the cold stores are asking farmers to pay Rs 20 per bag as advance too.

 The arrivals of fresh potato crop are expected to start in the first week of March. At present, potato is fetching a price of Rs 2 to 2.4 per kg with a 50 kg bag going for Rs 100-120.
 
 Bathinda has 35 cold storages with a capacity to stock up nearly 32 lakh bags of 50 kg each or around 1.6 lakh tonnes. Potato has been grown over 6,500 hectares in Bathinda and nearly 1.65 lakh tonnes of output of is expected in the district in the current season, which is the highest after the Doaba region.
 
 Though the state horticulture departments manages the potato cultivation, due to no minimum support price (MSP) it can’t ensure higher rates from the market for the farmers. Even the rent of cold stores was fixed either under the Central Cold Storage Order, 1980, or the acts enacted by the state governments. Punjab had abolished the control on tariff fixation in 1994.
 
 “Earlier, demonetisation badly hit potato growers. With the cash flow diminishing from the market during November-December, the crop was not being sent to other states and farmers had to sell their produce in local markets at lower prices. The losses now mount further with the new crop also not fetching good rates and the cold store owners exploiting the growers,” said Harcharan Singh Dhillon, a potato grower from Kararwala village near Rampura Phool sub-division of Bathinda. He has sown in potatoes over 200 acres. Rampura sub-division is the biggest producer of potatoes in the Malwa region.
 
 Another farmer from Kararwala Jaspal Singh said, “The potato growers are failing to get bookings in the cold stores even after getting ready to pay more than the previous year. Most of the cold store owners are saying the space has already been booked by the traders.” He said the cold store owners had joined hands to make money by exploiting farmers.
 
 Bathinda-based Dhillon cold store owner Iqbal Singh Dhillon, however, denied any exploitation of the farmers. Iqbal said, “Due to the hike in electricity rates, we are bound to make nominal increase in the storage rates. We are not saying no to any potato grower if we have space. Our cold store has the capacity of 80,000 bags. In the whole district, the cold stores have the capacity to store 30-32 lakh bags and nearly this much potato is produce already in the area.”
 
 Bathinda deputy director of horticulture Gurkewal Singh Dhillon also said that demonetisation had its impact on the crop and potato was not fetching the desired rates even now. “We are taking up the issue with the cold store owners to get space for every farmer at reasonable rates.”
 
 The deputy director admitted that cold store owners had increased rates for storing potato. “It seems tough for farmers to pay and we are trying to settle the issue,” he said.
 
