PATIALA: The district administration’s plan of creating space for counting of votes ran into controversy after Aam Aadmi Party ( ) candidate from Nabha assembly constituency Dev Mann objected to the shifting of old electronic voting machines (EVMs) meant for the Patiala Municipal Corporation. Mann demanded registration of an FIR against government officials accusing them of ‘dishonest behaviour’. After the polling on February 4, EVMs of Nabha assembly constituency have been kept in strong room at  , which happened to house the voting machines to be used for civic body polls.

 Patiala deputy commissioner-cum-district electoral officer Ramvir Singh brushed aside the suspicions being raised by AAP candidate. He said the election staff required additional space for making arrangements for counting of the votes, for which certain material related to the MC polls had to be moved from some rooms located in the premises of the Government Physical College, where EVMs from Nabha constituency were kept in a strong room.
 
 “However, as the AAP candidate raised objections, the move was stalled and the old machines were put back. Now we are looking to make some alternate arrangement for the counting of the votes,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Mann said he was informed the by office of the returning officer (RO) that some documents related to panchayat elections were to be shifted and his presence was required.
 
 “As I reached the college where the EVMs of assembly elections are also kept under tight security, I was asked to sign some documents following which the election staff started moving trunks from one of the rooms. After 15 trucks were brought out, I got suspicious as to what sort of documents were being moved. I asked the staffers to open the trucks and found EVMs being moved. I immediately told them to stop and asked them to put these machines back in the room,” he said.
 
 The DC said the EVMs were of old make, which were used to conduct MC elections and there was no connection between the new EVMs used for the assembly polls on February 4. He said the EVMs were not removed from the room and Dev Mann had put his personal lock too on the main door.
 
 However, not convinced, Mann got in touch with senior AAP leaders who also asked him not to let the EVMs be shifted. “We are also writing to the Election Commission for registration of FIRs against any officials responsible for this goof up,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, AAP convener   used his Twitter handle to upload a video showing some individuals removing trunks from a room, which he alleged was the strong room where EVMs were being kept.
 
 On the other hand, the   and   (SAD) candidates from Nabha, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Kabir Das respectively, chose not to react to the development claiming that there was nothing suspicious in making arrangements for the counting process.
 
 
