NEW DELHI: The   on Monday allowed IITs, NITs and other engineering colleges to go ahead with their admission process on the basis of JEE merit list and vacated its stay order given on Friday.

 A three-judge bench headed by justice   upheld   decision to award 18 bonus points awarded to all students for wrong questions in JEE (advance).
 
 The apex court had on Friday found faults in IIT's decision to award 18 bonus marks to students for wrong and vague questions in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) paper and stayed the ongoing counselling and admission in IITs, NIITs, IIITs and all government-funded engineering colleges.
 
 The bench was examining IIT's decision to award 18 bonus marks to all the candidates (11 marks for incorrect questions in Paper II and 7 marks for incorrect questions in Paper I) irrespective of whether they attempted the said questions or not.
 
 Attorney general KK  , appearing for IIT, had ruled out re-evaluation of answer papers saying it was not possible as 2.5 lakh students had taken the examination.
 
 He said that two wrong questions were there in only one out of ten sets of question papers which was in Hindi Medium and it was impossible to find out students who opted to take entrance examination in Hindi. He said that there was only two practical options available — either to continue with the bonus marks or to strike out the wrong questions.
 
 "We do not know who took test in Hindi. It is very difficult to find out and that is why it was decided that bonus marks be given to all students. Till date, more than 33,000 have already taken admission and whole process would have to be started afresh if merit list is revised," Venugopal said.
 
 "It is respectfully submitted that the relief is entirely against equity since the process of seat allocation is going on and around 33,000 candidates have already accepted the allotted seat and reported for physical verification of the documents ... It is submitted that in case ongoing counselling and admission process is disturbed, the admission procedure of more than 36,000 students in 97 institutes under the joint seat allocation programme for IITs, NIITs, IIITs and GFTIs (Government Funded Technical Institutions) would be scrapped," IIT said in its affidavit.
 
