CHANDIGARH: Can you turn left at a traffic light when it is red if there is no sign preventing you from taking the turn? Chandigarh police will tell you that you can't but a resident tested this rule in the district court recently and got himself some relief. He challenged his challan in the district court and judicial magistrate   fined him just Re 1 as token for jumping a red light while allowing commuters to turn left.

 Dr Rajesh   is a scientist in the US who is currently on leave and living in  .He was challaned on January 25 at the Sector 16-17 dividing road. Traffic cops challaned him saying he turned left when the light was still red and that he should have waited for it to turn green. Sharma filed an appeal against the challan which he termed as unjustified. Appearing for himself in the case, he argued that Chandigarh police was violating its own traffic rules and that the Chandigarh traffic police website itself states that “you can turn left on a red light if there is no signal for the left direction.“ He argued that if there is no signal for turning left, one could take the turn provided there was no pedestrian on the road.   ma argued that the police should either allow the left turn or correct the rule to “no left turn allowed on red light.“
 
 He said that a safe left turn should not be considered a violation of the red light and that standard rules of Indian traffic say that the driver should come to a complete stop at a red light, look out for pedestrians and oncoming traffic and then turn left. Sharma argued that the police should either al low the left turn or correct the rule to “no left turn allowed on red light.“
 
 He said that a safe left turn should not be considered a violation of the red light and that standard rules of Indian traffic say that the driver should come to a complete stop at a red light, look out for pedestrians and oncoming traffic and then turn left. He added that this rule is also followed in the US and Europe. The court heard the arguments and then penalised Sharma for jumping the red light.
 
